food reviews
{  
    May 10 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/skills-needs-give-food-for-thought-in-industry-26231311.html }
"The food processing sector is currently experiencing unprecedented levels of change. How the industry, education institutions, training and State support organisations respond to these changes will be a key determinant of whether or not  Ireland can retain a vibrant and successful food processing industry into the future," said Dr Daniel O'Hare, chairperson of the Expert Group on Future Skills Needs at the recent  launch of its report, Demand and Supply of Skills in the Food Processing Sector. The food industry is a key sector in the Irish economy with a gross output estimated to be in excess of ?15bn. The industry provides direct employment of 47,000 and a further 280,000 are employed indirectly on farms and in sub-supply industries and ancillary services. The report was undertaken by the Expert Skills Group, in association with FAS and Enterprise Ireland, to establish the skills requirement of the food processing industry for the future and to make recommendations to ensure that these requirements are met. "At this point, there are no indications that there is a need to increase the overall number of graduates coming into the food sector. "However, there are clear indications of a need to review and rebalance the content of third-level curricula relating to the sector. "Food scientists in the future will need to have a broader understanding of the management needs of the industry and managers will need to acquire a clearer appreciation of the importance of long-term planning, if the industry is to continue to flourish. "It is surprising to learn, for instance, that of the food-related third level programmes currently available, only one includes food business in its curriculum," said Dr O'Hare. The report indicates that while there are high-profile best practice firms, the food processing sector in Ireland is characterised, in general, by a deficit in strategic planning and human resource planning in particular. It found that there is evidence of this deficit not only in the curricula of third-level courses but also in on-the-job training courses currently available. "This current imbalance in course programme content is something that needs to be addressed with some urgency," said Dr O'Hare. The report found that the training currently being provided to the industry is in the main driven by regulation and legislation. The report established that almost 80pc of the approximately 400 courses identified are in the areas of food hygiene and food safety. While there are areas of significant importance, the low incidence of training in strategically important areas such as new product development, operations management and customer relationship management means that there will have to be a change in focus, in employee training as well as at third level to meet the oncoming challenges in the market place. The report makes the following recommendations: Employer/employee focused initiatives: The industry needs to take action on the need for the development of strategic human resources practices. This should be reflected in areas such as senior management training content and the development of the human resource function. The recommended employee focused initiatives will promote better partnership between employers and employees and will assist the industry in developing a better image in this regard. They will also impart the value of training and of life-long learning to employees. Third-level sector and the industry: The report advises that there is a requirement to improve the currently patchy interaction between the third-level sector and the industry. The report recommends the establishment of a National Innovation in Education Exchange. This would provide a forum for developing guiding principles for curriculum development specific to food industry related course programmes; improving student placement arrangements and generally building a positive image of the sector among potential employees. Skills Gaps: There are specific recommendations aimed at responding to identified skills gaps in areas such as general production mangement, sales and marketing, support skills and new product development. The report also recommends that existing expertise be built upon, such as in Moorepark for dairy research and training and through the creation of National Centres for Excellence for meat, dairy, consumers foods and biotechnology. Research and development undertaken in these centres would be translated into practical training and the centres would work with Enterprise Ireland to commercialise the results of their research. State support and training: The report suggests a number of actions that would improve the support and training for the industry to better reflect the requirements of the changing market environments. These include: * The establishment of a national database of all accredited education and training. * The expansion of the Skillnets initiative. * Reviewing the procedures of human resource development grants to make them more user friendly. * Further training for Enterprise Ireland and FAS executives to ensure that they too are taking on board the implications of the many change factors now affecting the industry. "The recommendations in this report are focused on ensuring that the food processing sector in Ireland is well-positioned and equipped to meet the needs of a changing and challenging industry. "The Irish work force and educational institutions have in the past proven themselves to be very flexible and responsive to the changing needs of the industry. "I have no doubt that this level of responsiveness in the provision of appropriate skills will be maintained. "Adapting the current focus to give the industry the skills it will require will enable it to maintain its competitive positions in the global marketplace," said Martin Cronin, chief executive officer, Forfas. 
