food reviews
{  
    December 02 2014 03:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/localnotes/bray-30792147.html }
Bray Christ Church COI This Sunday's Services of Worship-2nd Sunday of Advent: 8.30am-Holy Communion 2; 11am-Holy Communion; 12 Noon-Confirmation Class. This Sunday's Classics by Candlelight: Music for string quartet in Christ Church Bray this Sunday December 7th at 7pm. Tickets are €10 and includes mince pies and a glass of mulled wine. Homemade Christmas Fare will also be available for purchase Tickets available from The Travel Boutique, Main Street, Bray (01-2768114) or from the Christ Church Bray Parish Office (01-2862968). Holy Redeemer Parish New Saturday/ Sunday Mass Times in Church of the Most Holy Redeemer: The new weekend Mass times are: Saturday-No Vigil Mass. Sunday-9am (Irish);10.30am; 12 Noon, and 6pm. Bookings for Cancelled / Changed Masses: A number of bookings were in the diary for Masses which have been cancelled or changed. If you have made such a booking please call into the Sacristy or contact the Parish Office (01-2868413) during the week to arrange an alternative Mass. Review Of Parish Group Facilities: In Holy Redeemer we have many different Groups ministering across the Parish. The Parish is about to carry out a review with these Groups to assess their present facilities and to better understand the parish requirements into the future. To this end, a small Parish Team has been set up to coordinate this review and work with a firm of Architects to develop a Master plan to meet as many of these requirements as is feasible over the coming years. The Parish Team will shortly be in contact with a cross section of these Groups to engage with them. If any parishioner wishes to input to this review they should put their suggestions down on paper, put them in a sealed envelope and drop them into the Parish Office not later than Friday 12th December. Envelopes should be marked for the attention of the Parish Project Team. The Kids are back in town: The Childrens' Choir needs singers aged 6 and over to ' raise the roof ' of Holy Redeemer!!!!! Our new practice venue is the Youth Centre on Sundays at 11.30am (to 12.30pm). Please come along this Sunday if you would like to join. Lots of fun to be had-not just singing. St. Peter's Parish Marriage Preparation Course: A 7 week course will take place in St. Peter's Parish, Little, Bray, starting on Sunday 4th January at 7.30pm. Church Closing Time: The Church closes every day at 1pm. Diocesan Crosscare Food Appeal: The Archbishop has announced that there will be a food collection to replenish the stock of the Crosscare Food Banks again this year, which will take place this weekend. These food banks give food directly to individuals and families in need through local community food banks and also to over 70 other charities in Dublin who are working with those most in need. Suggested items-pasta/rice, fruit juice, tea/coffee, soup, sugar, powdered milk, tinned meat/fish, tinned vegetables / fruit, packaged dessert, biscuits, hygiene products. Donations can be left in the church this weekend. Your generosity and support is very much appreciated. St. Fergal's Parish New Weekend Mass Times: From this weekend new weekend Mass times in this Church are-Saturday-7pm Vigil Mass; Sunday 8am and 10.30am. St. Fergal's Parish Day Trip: A December Day Trip takes place this Saturday 6th .Coach departs at 9am from St. Fergal's.Tea/Coffee & Scones at Brown's Barn, Citywest; Visit to Newbridge Silverware and Free time in Newbridge town.Visit to Kildare Village-Dinner at Brown's Barn, Citywest, Cost: €39.Please book at the Parish Office. Booking deposit required when booking. Congratulations: Congratulations to Katie Taylor who won her Fifth World Title in Jeju, South Korea. Parish Trip to Bratislava, Slovakia: From 18th May-24th May 2015-8 Days & 7 night Trip Cost: €845.00 per person sharing. See posters, newsletter & parish website for further information. Please take a poster at the back of the church. Thank You: Bray First Responders would like to thank the parishioners of St. Fergal's for their generosity and support at the recent collection, to raise funds for an automatic external defibrillator for Ballywaltrim Community Centre.The total amount collected was €999.00. Would you like to join St. Fergal's Gospel Choir?: The choir practice takes place each Monday evening in the church and the choir sings at the Vigil Mass on the 3rd & 4th Saturday of each month. For further information please call to the parish office or phone (01) 2860980. Our Lady Queen of Peace Sunday's Parish Christmas Fair: Do you have any unwanted gifts at home or office? De-clutter and donate to Our Lady, Queen of Peace Christmas Fair. Please contact Anne, 087-777 2127. The Parish Christmas Fair will take place this Sunday in the Villa Pacis from 12.30pm to 3pm. The Villa Pacis will be open up to 6pm on Friday and on Saturday from 9am to 12 Noon if you would like to leave something in for the Parish Fair. Feast of the Immaculate: Next Monday is the Feast of the Immaculate Conception and a Holy Day of Obligation. Masses will be celebrated on Monday at 10.30am and 6pm. QOP youth club Twins, Conor and Caoimbe Hardiman enjoyed sharing a birthday cake with sixty members of the Queen of Peace Adventure Youth Club.Both are now teenagers. Club events for December will be a night walk along the cliff walk from Greystones to Bray, and a Christmas party. diving club Some Bray Divers are studying under sea life with the University of Southampton. As a result there are plans to organise a trip to the hydrothermal vents off Iceland in the New Year. Last club event this year will be a trip to Portroe Slate Quarry. Following a few enquiries the club mayrun a scuba training course next June. Cualann Society Members of the Bray Cualann Historical Society, the local history society for Bray and North Wicklow, are invited to attend tonight's (Wednesday) 8pm meeting of the Rathmichael Historical Society in Rathmichael School, Stonebridge Road, Shankill at which at which Dr. Colin Ireland will present his lecture on ' Leinster's place in the world in the 7th Century. All welcome. On Friday December 19th , James Scannell, Vice-Chairman and PRO of the Bray Cualann Historical Society will present a special lecture ' Christmas in Bray 100 Years Ago (1914) ' at 11.30am in Bray Library, Eglinton Road, Bray. Admission free-all welcome. Bray Musical Society 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' is this year's Bray Musical Society panto which will be staged from this Friday to Sunday in St. Patrick's School, Vevay Road, Bray. The Friday performances are staged at 8pm, the Saturday performances at 2.30pm and 7.30pm and Sunday performances at2.30pm. Admission is €10 for adults and €5 for children; family tickets are €28. To book call 086-2663250. Bray Flower Club There is a Gala Christmas Demonstration by Candy Holton, tomorrow (Thursday) in the Little Flower Hall, Bray at 8pm.All arrangements raffled after the show. All proceeds go to Irish Motor Neurone Disease Association. Tickets €15.00 are available from St. Fergal's Parish Office. Ravenswell School fair The Ravenswell Christmas Fair takes place on Saturday from 11.30am.-3.30pm. Kilcoole indoor boot SALE There will be a Mega Christmas Indoor Boot Sale held at the school on Sunday 7th December from 11.00 to 4.00 p.m.   As well as many and varied stalls, there will also be face painting and Santa Claus for the  children.   Please support.  All proceeds to the Parents Council Fund which pays for a number of student activities and facilities through the year. SET DANCING PARTY The Set Dancing Christmas party will be held on Friday 5th December in the Mill Room, with music from the Bass Céili Band.  COMMUNITY THRIFT SHOP The shop is located near the new traffic lights at the junction of Main Street and Sea Road and opens from 10.30 to 5.30 from Monday to Saturday.   Phone 2877848.   On Thursday 4th from 6.00 - 9.00 p.m. we will host a massive sale of Christmas new/nearly new goodies  On December 22nd we will see the return of "the Man in Red" to our village. He will start his journey from Byrnes Car Park at 4.00 p.m.  LOTTO Kilcoole GAA weekly lotto draw takes place every Monday night with the jackpot increasing €200 per week until it's won.  Pick four numbers, match four to win or share in the jackpot, match three to win or share €200.  Tickets on sale in Tesco and Centra every Saturday morning or daily from some outlets or any committee member.   BINGO Bingo is held on Monday nights in St. Patrick's Hall at 8.00 p.m.  Everybody is welcome.   NOTES To have a notice included for Kilcoole, call 087 2867611 or email oharaj@iol.ie Shankill St.Anne's Parish Mass Times: Mass is celebrated in St. Anne's Church at 10am and 7.30pm Monday to Friday, (except during July & August). Weekend Mass times are Saturday 6.30pm Vigil Mass and on Sunday at 8am, (9am in St. Patrick's Church in St. Columcille's Hospital), 10.30am (Family Mass), 12 Noon, and 6pm.  Altar Servers: Last Sunday morning 5 new altar servers were commissioned at the 10.30am Mass. Youth Mass: For practical purposes the St. Anne's Parish Pastoral Council; has decided to combine the monthly Youth Mass with the 6.30pm evening Mass on the first Saturday of the month. The next Youth Mass will be celebrated this Saturday at 6.30pm. We would love to get more people involved in the preparation of this Mass and if any teenager or young person is interested, please contact Ms. Elaine Hogan in the Parish Office. We need Readers, Musicians, Hospitality and a Social Team. Come along, meet new people and make new friends. Secret Choir: The Secret Choir has been invited to take part in the December 17th Parish Carol Service. A rehearsal will take place on Wednesday December 10th at 8pm. Cake Sale: This Sunday morning from 11.15am to 1pm in St.Anne's Resource Centre in aid of Mountains of the Moon Support Group helping children and families coping with life after AIDS. First Friday of the Month: This Friday is the First Friday of the Month and Blessed Sacrament Adoration Chapel will; be open from 10.30am to 7.30pm. Priests will be available on this day to visit the sock and housebound in the parish. Please contact the Parish Office if you know of someone who would like a priest to visit them. Advent Retreat: A UAC Advent Retreat will take place on Sunday December 14th from 11am to 6pm in St. Anne's Resource Centre, led by Fr. Derry Murphy and Fr. Liam McClarey. Tea and Coffee will be provided-please bring a packed lunch. Feast of the Immaculate Conception: Next Monday is the Feast of the Immaculate Conception and is a Holy Day of Obligation-Mass times 10am, 12 Noon and 7.30pm. A moment of blessing for all aspects of motherhood with a Mass and Mediation will be celebrated by Fr. Eamonn Monson at 7.30pm. Advent Meditation with Fr. Eamonn Meditation: Tonight (Wednesday) at 8pm in St. Anne's Resource Centre. Senior Citizens Christmas Party: The Senior Citizens Christmas Party will take place on Friday 12th December from 2.00pm-4.00pm in Scoil Mhuire. Contact the Resource Centre to book a place on 01 2822277. Lifts will be provided. Christmas Carol Service: St. Anne's Parish invites you to join them at this special time of the year for the Christmas Carol Service on Wednesday December 17th at 8.15pm in the Church. All welcome. Diocesan Crosscare Food Appeal: The Archbishop has announced that there will be a food collection to replenish the stock of the Crosscare Food Banks again this year, which will take place this weekend. These food banks give food directly to individuals and families in need through local community food banks and also to over 70 other charities in Dublin who are working with those most in need. Suggested items-pasta/rice, fruit juice, tea/coffee, soup, sugar, powdered milk, tinned meat/fish, tinned vegetables / fruit, packaged dessert, biscuits, hygiene products. Donations can be left into the Sacristy or into St. Anne's Resource Centre this weekend.  Ballybrack Parish News New weekend Mass times which come into effect from this weekend are-St Stephen's Church: Vigil Mass on Saturday at 6pm; Church of SS Alphonsus and Columba: Sunday 10am; and Church of the Apostles: Sunday 12 Noon. Carol Service: This will take place in the Church off SS Alphonsus and Columba at 5pm on Sunday December 21st. Penance Service: A Christmas Penance Service will take place in the Church of the Apostle at 7.30pm on Monday December 15th on Tuesday December 16th at 7.30pm in the Church of St. Columbanus, Loughlinstown. Book Sale This Saturday morning the December First Saturday Book Sale will take place in Shankill Old Folks Association Centre, Lower Road, Shankill, from 10am to 1 p.m. Donations of books, other than school/text books, appreciated and accept on the day. Make a point of calling as you never know what you might find. There will be a great selection of books to choose from especially for over the Christmas and New Year period. Shankill Library Opening hours for Shankill Library are 10am to 1pm and from to 5pm on Mondays and Wednesdays and on alternate Fridays and Saturdays. The library is open on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 2pm to 8pm. To renew or inquire about a book call 01-2823801 or Email:shankilllib@dlrcoco.ie. Historical Society  Tonight (Wednesday) the December meeting of the Rathmichael Historical Society takes place at 8pm in Rathmichael School, Stonebridge Road, Shankill, at which Dr. Colin Ireland will present his lecture on ' Leinster's place in the world in the 7th Century '-All welcome. Christmas Festival This takes place on Sunday from 2pm to 6pm on the West side of Main Street. A great family fund day out. Bray People 
