food reviews
{ By JIM AUGHNEY 
    May 19 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/guess-whos-coming-to-dinner-26118444.html }
The danger of infection from food poisoning has never been greater, and now new dreaded superbugs have emerged  to increase the risks, writes Jerome The stomach-churning evidence of live and dead cockroaches, and barrels of swilled food waste ``bubbling'' in the heat will have shocked anyone who has ever eaten in Palmer's Golden Ball in Kilternan, which was described by a judge this week as a ``black hole of Calcutta''. While substantial improvements have since been made at the premises, the case has brought the issue of food safety into sharp focus. As more and more Irish people eat out, incidents of potentially deadly food poisoning have risen dramatically. The Food Safety Authority told Weekend Review yesterday that reported cases of food poisoning in 1999 reached 1,673 up 400 from 1998. And they admitted that those figures may be just the tip of the iceberg as many thousands of minor cases are never reported to the authorities although food poisoning is a notifiable disease. ``Many people who get a mild bout of food poisoning which will affect them for a day or so do not seek medical help. It's fair to say the reported cases are those of a more serious nature,'' an FSA spokeswoman said. In fact the figures represent, in the main, those who sought urgent medical help after succumbing to the desperately debilitating effects of consuming bad food. It's the very young and the very old who are most vulnerable. A bad case of food poisoning can be fatal to both groups, especially if the cause is one of the so-called superbugs such as E-coli H0157 and listeria which are now global health concerns. Ireland has never had more restaurants, cafes, hotels, and pubs selling food for public consumption. Traditional Sunday lunch at home has been replaced in many households with a trip away from the kitchen to enjoy the treat of the carvery lunch cooked by someone else. . Safeguarding all of us from the food bugs and the unscrupulous or merely incompetent purveyors of food prepared in dodgy conditions is becoming increasingly difficult. The 550 Environmental Health Officers who patrol eating houses both sides of the Border have seen their workload rise dramatically and the emergence of superbugs has added a new level of responsibility to literally safeguard the lives of the general public. The last decade has seen an eight-fold increase in reported cases, with salmonella now accounting for half of all incidence. And it's poor hygiene which is largely responsible. The laws have been stiffened up and people who work with food in any business must now be trained in food safety. But resources are stretched. It is generally accepted that extra funding is needed to recruit more food safety staff, for inspecting and sampling and in the laboratory service for analysis. Most pubs restaurants and cafes receive merely an annual visit, unless they have a poor track record and are considered problematic. Though most cases of food poisoning still occur in the home, the most common faults in pubs restaurants cafes and other food premises go right back to the basics inadequate refrigeration, cross-contamination of raw and cooked meats and plain dirty and unhygienic conditions. But most worrying is the emergence of Verocytotoxin producing Escherichia coli. This deadly mouthful is commonly known as VTEC. E.Coli 0157:H7 and is the most common member of the VTEC family of deadly bugs. Just three-and-half years ago an outbreak of VTEC infection in food killed 21 people in Scotland. In Ireland the number of reported cases of this microscopic assassin, according to the Food Safety Authority, continues to rise steadily. There were just eight cases in 1996, but two years later the number had risen to 76. The FSA say the incidence of VTEC E.Coli 0157: H7 is a major concern and our figures per head of population are high in comparison with other European countries. 
