food reviews
{ Tim Reid 
    December 29 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/outcry-as-officials-rule-cloned-foods-are-safe-to-eat-26352937.html }
THE sale of milk and meat from cloned animals moved a step closer yesterday. The US government ruled the products were safe to eat and could be sold in supermarkets without labelling. The landmark draft decision, taken by the US Food and Drugs Administration, was condemned by consumer groups and food safety experts, who gave warning of the implications for food consumption throughout the world. FDA officials said that they saw little problem with the technology, which could result in cloned food being sold in the US within months. Cloned food products could also be exported. Authorities in Britain have yet to address the issue of the sale of food from cloned animals. However, precedents set by the FDA are often followed by UK and European authorities. The Food Standards Agency said last night it had not received any applications for the marketing of food products from cloned animals in the UK. The move would have to be approved by the EU before such products could be introduced. The FDA determined after a five-year review that food from cloned livestock was as safe to eat as food from normal animals. The agency said special labels were not needed to alert shoppers to its origin. Consumer groups gave warning that cloned food would enter the food chain untested on humans, and from a field of science in which cloned animals are often born sick or with severe abnormalities. "Consumers are going to be having a product that has potential safety issues and a load of ethical issues tied to it, with no labelling", said Joseph Mendelson of the Washington-based Centre for Food Safety. Some US consumer groups maintain that surrogate mothers, in which the cloned animals are grown, are treated with high levels of hormones. They say clones are often born with severely compromised immune systems and receive massive doses of antibiotics, opening the way for large quantities of pharmaceuticals to enter the food supply. The US National Academy of Sciences also warned recently that the commercialisation of cloned livestock for food production could increase the incidence of food-borne illness, such as E-coli infections. Experts say it would probably take years for sales of cloned food to begin in earnest, because the technology's high cost makes it prohibitive for most farmers. But already several hundred cattle among America's nine million have been cloned. Supporters of the technology say that it will be used primarily for breeding good milk and meat producers, and produce will most likely be drawn from offspring, rather than the clone. The FDA said that meat and milk from clones was as safe to consume as products from other animals. Within six to eighteen months, cloned animals were "virtually indistinguishable" from conventionally-bred livestock, it said. Final approval for lifting the ban on cloned food could come early next year. (© The Times, London) 
