food reviews
{ Matthew Beardin London 
    February 24 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/hollywood-peddling-unhealthy-foods-to-tots-26001314.html }
SOME OF the biggest companies in the entertainment industry have been accused by the consumers' group Which? of contributing to bad childhood diets by allowing their cartoon characters to be used to sell unhealthy food, it has been revealed. SOME OF the biggest companies in the entertainment industry have been accused of contributing to bad childhood diets by allowing their cartoon characters to be used to sell unhealthy food. The consumers' group Which? - formerly known as the Consumers' Association - fired the latest salvo in the battle to improve eating habits yesterday when it said that plastering characters from The Incredibles, Shark Tale and The Simpsons over tins and packets of unhealthy food aimed at children was irresponsible. In a trawl of supermarket shelves, researchers found 46 products promoted by cartoon characters owned by 10 different licensing companies, including Disney, Dreamworks and Warner Brothers, exceeded government-recommended levels of salt, sugar and fat. Researchers found endorsed pasta products and ready meals containing more than the maximum daily amount of salt for children aged one to six. Of the endorsed breakfast cereals, "virtually all" of them contained a lot of sugar. In a related Which? survey of 2,000 parents, 77pc said that such marketing of children's foods increased the "pester power" and made it difficult for them to refuse their children. Nick Stace, of Which?, said: "Parents feel manipulated. Too many characters loved by children are being used to promote foods high in fat, sugar and salt. These are not treats; these are everyday foods." Parents interviewed in the survey expressed anger at celebrities who endorsed unhealthy foods aimed at children. One mother, whose name was not given, said David Beckham should lend his name to promoting apples and not Pepsi. Authors of the report praised the BBC for having the most explicit policy. Under rules drawn up by BBC Worldwide, maximum levels of salt, sugar and fat have been set for foods endorsed by BBC characters. Despite this, a yoghurt endorsed by the Tweenies was found by Which? to contain high levels of sugar. The British Government's food and health action plan, to be published this year, will cover the use of cartoon characters to promote foods. In a White Paper last year, the government said there was a "strong case" for restricting the promotion to children of foods high in salt, fat and sugar. If voluntary initiatives by the industry and advertisers are not in place by early 2007, legislation will be introduced, the Government has warned. The findings follow a report by the market analysts Mintel in 2003, which concluded that due to children receiving more pocket money, and "getting older younger," they were having an unprecedented influence over household spending. The study accused food manufacturers of manipulating parents and encouraging "pester power" and called for a review into the way children's characters were licenced.The childhood obesity epidemic of the past few decades has triggered concerns at the influence of junk food advertising. Nearly a third of children are overweight, while 16pc of two-to 15-year-olds are believed to be clinically obese. The Advertising Association said its code of advertising was under review but it believed more could be achieved if the industry helped the government and food companies to "educate and motivate" people about their diets. The British Government hopes this will be done through voluntary agreements, but has given the industry a deadline of 2007 to act. (© Independent News Service and agencies) 
