food reviews
{ Paolo Tullio 
    October 05 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/nurturing-star-quality-29636138.html }
The Romans used to say it succinctly: de gustibus non est disputandum – which you can translate as 'you can't argue about matters of taste'. 'One man's meat is another man's poison' makes the same point; we don't all have the same reaction to stimuli. Food is the perfect example; what might leave me in paroxysms of pleasure could leave another wanting to retch. We all react to foods in different ways, because our tastebuds are not all calibrated in exactly the same way. For example, I can taste coriander leaf in tiny quantities, so even an average amount used as seasoning seems too much to me. Others find garlic overpowering in quantities that I can barely taste. You get the idea. All of this has its effects on the job of reviewing food. Since we all taste it differently, what use can a review be? The answer, I suppose, is that there are many other aspects to a restaurant meal and they are a good deal less subjective. Was it good value? Good service? Comfortable dining? Was the food skilfully prepared? Was the menu interesting? These are all things that a review can address, and can give you an idea of what's in store should you choose to visit the restaurant. To a large extent, all restaurant reviewers follow pretty much the same pattern, giving their opinion on the topics I've just listed. But I have noticed one thing that I do differently from the others: I wait a minimum of a month before I'll review a new restaurant. My reasons are entirely selfish. I'd prefer to get a good meal than a bad one, and going to a restaurant in week one seems to me like asking for a bad to mediocre meal. I can think of no human enterprise that begins its life at 100pc efficiency. We all need time to settle into new situations, and a restaurant is no exception. My colleague on the 'Sunday Independent', Lucinda O'Sullivan, is always the first reviewer in, often on the opening night. My guess is that she gets a lot more bad to mediocre meals than I do, simply because she's reviewing a place before they've worked out the glitches and bugs in untried systems. This appears to have happened with her review of Cleaver East, which, at the time of writing, seems to have created a brouhaha that's taking up a great number of column inches in the nation's press. Cleaver East is a new venture in what used to be the Tea Rooms in The Clarence Hotel. Two of Ireland's best chefs are at the helm, Oliver Dunne and Rory Carville, each with a Michelin star to their names. Given that kind of pedigree, you'd expect something pretty special. I'd been away in Italy for my summer break and I needed a review to get me back into harness, so Cleaver East seemed the obvious choice given the publicity. I got Marian to book us a table and off we went with high expectations. The Tea Rooms have changed a bit to accommodate Cleaver East. There's a new bar in the middle of the room when you walk in, there's a mezzanine above the entrance door with a few tables there up high, and there's a new raised section at the far end with seven or eight tables, which is where we were seated. The menu makes for interesting reading. It's laid out as a series of tasting plates, rather than a starter, main course and dessert.  You can think of tasting plates as a double tapa, that's to say  there's enough on the plate to give two people a good taste of what's there. It's divided up into soups, vegetarian dishes, classics with a twist, fish dishes and meat dishes. Hardly the usual menu design. We asked how many we should order, not knowing what size these dishes might be. "Five between two would be plenty," came the reply. So we ordered five: the scotch egg, the duck egg, a goat's-cheese parfait, crispy lamb breast and lobster dumplings. Most of the dishes on the menu were less than a tenner, with a few more than a tenner, running up to a maximum of €14. There's an interesting wine list, but what I liked best was that there was a good selection of wines in the €20-€30 range. For those with deeper pockets, the list also carries wines up to €150. With Marian choosing to drink only mocktails, it was wine by the glass for me. I chose a glass of white Rioja made from the Viura grape, a really unusual wine with a taste not unlike a dry sherry. Of our five chosen dishes, I thought them all very well done. The cooking was skilful and inventive, and the dishes were really good to eat. Only one thing left me unimpressed: the lobster dumplings. I thought the dough a little thick and stodgy, although the filling was delicious. This proves the point I made at the start of this column, de gustibus non est disputandum. My friend Peter McKenna, who happened to be sitting beside us, said the dumplings were one of the nicest things he'd ever eaten, and a man I met outside when I was taking a cigarette break said exactly the same thing. After we'd finished eating, we were joined by Sophie Kenny and David Uda, who had a cocktail each. Sophie let slip to our waitress that it was Marian's birthday and suddenly we had a panna cotta in a glass bowl topped with five candles brought to the table and we sang 'Happy Birthday'. I liked Cleaver East a lot. The food is good, the atmosphere is buzzing, there's good music, excellent service and I liked the newly designed interior. And the bill wasn't painful either at €83.45. Irish Independent 
