food reviews
{ Declan Cashin 
    March 29 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/move-over-nigella-26433565.html }
School trips are not associated with epiphanies that can change your life for the better. The lasting memory most of us have from such experiences involve a group of gauche, hormonal teens being lumped together with awkward, stressed-out teachers, sharing a sweaty, cramped bus, stopping off in grotty hostels and bargain-basement eateries. Not so for Irish woman Trish Deseine, budding TV chef par excellence, and one of the best-selling food authors in France. When she first visited Paris on a school tour aged 13, her imagination -- and palate - became intoxicated with all things Gallic. "I had never seen anything like it," says Trish (43) who grew up in the countryside outside Belfast. An only daughter and the middle of three children, her mother was a teacher and her late father was president of the Farmers' Union. "I'd been abroad a little bit but, food-wise it was just amazing. I didn't go eating in wonderful restaurants at all, but even the corner bistros and the food in the canteens was just so different. There was so much choice and it was so delicious. "Paris was such a beautiful and vibrant city and coming from the countryside, I had very little experience of any city life. I sometimes wonder that if I'd gone to Madrid that year, would I have ended up in Spain, but I don't think so. I think France has always held a particular place in my imagination," said Trish, who grew up in Doagh, between Ballyclare and Ballymena. "I loved growing up in the countryside and I was always out in the fields with my father," said Trish, who later worked as marketing executive for the Northern Ireland Tourism Board in France for seven years. Since her cookery career took off, she divides her time between her home in Saint-Germain-en-Laye and an atelier in the city's 20th arrondissement where she films almost every week. It turns out that Trish's love of la republique francaise is no one-sided affair. She has published nine hugely popular cook books since 2001, covering everything from cuisine to chocolate to children's party food. She has sold well over 600,000 copies of her beautifully illustrated books, has been lauded with several prestigious culinary accolades, and is a regular gastronomic contributor to Elle and Time Out Paris. Trish's Paris kitchen While a huge star in France, the divorced mum-of-four has yet to make inroads in this corner of the continent. But that should all change with the publication of her latest tome, Nobody Does it Better: Why French Home Cooking is Still the Best in the World, and her new 12-part cooking TV show, Trish's Paris Kitchen, which starts on RTE next week. The raison d’etre of the new book, and particularly the TV show, is to make good food accessible to everyone, irrespective of how busy they are, or their perceived sense of their own cooking ability. And as the subtitle of Nobody Does it Better attests, Trish believes the French are the crème de le crème when it comes to fine eating. “Good food is something the French feel entitled to,” she explains. “Food is as much a conversational topic as football or politics — it’s something that belongs to everybody. It’s not just a question of eating well if you go out for a special occasion. Food is something that is important to them on a daily basis.” But the question that automatically comes to mind when one looks at Trish’s success is: just how did Patricia Stevens, the daughter of a farmer and teacher from Northern Ireland, who never trained professionally as a chef, come to conquer the market in a country where the president, Nicolas Sarkozy, recently recommended that UNESCO list French cuisine as part of the world’s cultural heritage? “I guess it’s because my recipes are short and easy,” says Trish. “I talk in the first person and am reassuring. The books are beautifully presented too, so that helps! I suppose it’s also because, in France, most cookery books were written by chefs who intellectualised it. It was the right time for someone to talk about home-cooking. It was different. The longer explanation for Trish’s success stems from her youthful obsession with the country and its culture. She went on to study French at Edinburgh University, and spent a gap year and summers working in France as an au pair and in other serviceindustry jobs. Marriage and kids She met her future French husband, Thierry, in Edinburgh where he was working, moved to Paris to be with him in 1987, and married in 1990. They subsequently had four children: Corentin (15), Timothe (11), Tanguy (10) and Victoire (6). The couple are now divorced, and they share custody of the kids on alternate weeks. It was when Trish first moved to Paris permanently that she quickly realised how cooking was de rigueur in French life. “I found when I moved here that, even though we were just in our twenties, everyone entertained at home,” Trish reveals. “We didn’t go down to the pub, we didn’t go out to restaurants — people entertained at home. So I had to get started. It was fine when it was for friends, but when I started having to cook for my inlaws and all the different generations, I must admit it was pretty daunting. “I was very aware of the fact that, because of the way the French perceived us Irish as cooks, if the food was bad then it’s what they would expect, but if it was good then it was a triumph for me! So I had nothing to lose.” With food forming such an integral part of French life, Trish found that the general environment was highly conducive towards learning all the gourmand tricks. “When you shop in the markets in France, the people tend to be a lot kinder if you don’t know an awful lot about the ingredients you’re looking for,” Trish states. “I used to pick up so many tips while just out shopping, even from people standing in queues. If they’re not talking about food, they’re talking about what they’re having for lunch and what they’re having in the evening, and how they cooked it yesterday. And I loved that.” Ultimately, her new French family were the greatest influence on her emerging passion and skill as a cook. “I learned a lot from my mother-in-law and my aunt-in-law; that older generation who were used to entertaining for huge amounts of people,” Trish says. “I was a bit unusual to these women because I was so willing to cook, and I loved doing it. For French women of my generation – the daughters of the 1968 revolutionaries — cooking was almost seen as an anti-feminist activity, but I didn’t see it that way. I was just happy to be in France, soaking up the culture.” While Trish’s no-nonsense and non-intimidating approach to cooking has undoubtedly boosted her appeal, her status as an outsider has also helped to endear her to amateur and professional chefs alike in her adopted country. “Yes I think it helped that I was different,” she confesses. “When the first books came out, the trend in restaurants was fusion and that invariably influenced what people cooked at home. “What I was cooking was a combination of Spanish, French, Italian and American, and French people were travelling a lot more, and becoming more interested in other cultures. So I think there was an opening for the slightly international way I cooked.” Demystifying French food Nevertheless, her rapid success in the food publishing industry did attract some critical comment. “A couple of the first reviews were a bit scathing,” Trish admits. “But very soon it became clear that the women’s press liked the tone of the books, and they got behind it, which helped the first to sell so well. “I think the French people just have a very healthy respect for anybody who really loves their grub, and there’s no arrogance on my behalf. I don’t step on any toes.” Indeed, upon watching the first episode of Trish’s Paris Kitchen, it immediately becomes clear that this glamorous blonde is just being her charming, self-deprecating self, and that she is not going down the “food-porn” route of that most famous of TV culinary goddesses, Nigella Lawson (whose show, incidentally, flopped in France). “I’m adamant about not being the ‘new’ anybody — it’s just me,” Trish states. “I haven’t been on TV for any great length of time. I was nervous as hell, and felt extremely amateurish! So I wasn’t conscious of doing anything in any particular way. I’m a big fan of Nigella’s books, though. I think her How to Eat was the cookbook of the decade. “In the programme, my goal was for people to come away with at least 12 recipes, and to show that they involve just basic cooking methods. I wanted to demystify French food. If something is enjoyable, people will learn more from it. “Everyone can cook. I just think that people feel pressure to produce restaurant food. And that is not real life food. Everyone, with a little bit of care, can make the most delicious soup or stew, or assemble some kind of dish in 20 minutes for the evening. It doesn’t need to be aspirational or fancy or mystical. It’s that level of French cooking that gives French food a bad name.” As for her own favourite dish, Trish clings to an Irish one her mum still makes at home in Antrim and when she visits her in France. “My mother is a great cook . I like her steak and kidney pie and apple tart made with shortcrust pastry and salty butter. The one dish of her’s I love the most is chicken stuffed with parsley and onion. When I cook it it’s never the same.” Finally, when pressed upon to distil her cooking advice into one bite-sized morsel, Trish has this to say: “The principle is always try to up the pace, and make things better. Also, you should do the opposite of what people say when you’re on a diet, which is never to shop when you’re hungry. Imagining what you’re going to eat just adds to the pleasure of cooking.” Lunch: Rose Bakery, 46 rue des Martyrs, Paris 9ème (Tel: 0033-1- 46366540) Cult deli/café great for nostalgia attacks: wonderful granola, scones, cheesecake, Eton mess. Le Chateaubriand, 129 ave Parmentier, Paris 11ème ( 0033-1-43574595) Inaki Azpitarte’s cooking is the most exciting in town, dependent on his mood and what is in season. This gorgeous old bistro has gorgeous staff, hip cleintèle, with ‘canteen’ prices at around €50 for two. The gastronomic menu in the evening costs around €120 for two with wine. Dinner: Le Baratin, rue Jouye Rouve, Paris 20ème. A short walk from my apartment, wholesome, voluptuous cooking from Raquel, the best cook in Paris. Georges, on top of Pompidou Centre, Paris 4ème, pictured above, has the most beautiful view from a restaurant in Paris. The service is a bit stiff and the clientèle chic. Dress up! Favourite market: St Germain en Laye, Tue, Fri, Sun, Saxe Breteuil Paris 7ème. Favourite deli: La Grande Epicerie du Bon Marché, 24 rude de Sevres , Paris 7eme (0033-1-44398000) www.bonmarche. fr. The best food hall in Paris. Favourite place for gifts: La Boutique du musée des arts décoratifs, rue de Rivoli, Paris 1ER. Books, tableware, jewellery, from French and international designers. Favourite place to unwind: On the terrasse at La Cagnotte de Belleville, my local beloved bar. 13 rue Jean-Baptise Dumas, Paris 11eme (0033-1-46366540), open from 7 to 2. Favourite venue: La Bellevilloise in the 20th for concerts, the garden of hotel amour (rue Navarin, 9th) for late-night music on summer weekends. Favourite bar: Hotel Costes, rue du Fbg St Honoré, never goes out of fashion... but avoid it during fashion week. 
