food reviews
{ Paula Fentiman  in London 
    July 30 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/scientists-put-bite-on-claims-that-organic-food-better-26554762.html }
Eating organic food does not provide any more significant nutritional or health benefits than conventionally produced foods, according to a new study. An independent review commissioned by the British Food Standards Agency (FSA) found there were no important differences between the different types of food. The conclusion was reached after a team of researchers at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) reviewed all papers published over the last 50 years relating to nutrient content and health differences between the two kinds of produce. Organic farming, which focuses on protecting wildlife and the environment, means no artificial chemical fertilisers are used, pesticide use is restricted and animals are expected to be free range. It has become increasingly popular in recent years, with supermarkets offering organic options on many items. But the paper reporting the results of the review of nutritional differences -- published today by the 'American Journal of Clinical Nutrition' -- appears to cast doubt on the potential benefits to people's health from the method.  Crops Principal author Dr Alan Dangour, of the LSHTM's nutrition and public health intervention research unit, said: "A small number of differences in nutrient content were found to exist between organically and conventionally produced crops and livestock, but these are unlikely to be of any public health relevance. "Our review indicates that there is currently no evidence to support the selection of organically over conventionally produced foods on the basis of nutritional superiority." The FSA said it supported consumer choice and was neither for nor against organic food, recognising there were many reasons why people chose to eat it. Gill Fine, FSA director of consumer choice and dietary health, said: "Ensuring people have accurate information is absolutely essential in allowing us all to make informed choices about the food we eat. "This study does not mean that people should not eat organic food. What it shows is there is little, if any, nutritional difference between organic and conventionally produced food, and there is no evidence of additional health benefits from eating organic food." Peter Melchett, policy director at the Soil Association, said: "We are disappointed in the conclusions the researchers have reached.  Nutritional "The review rejected almost all of the existing studies of comparisons between organic and non-organic nutritional differences. This was because these studies did not meet particular criteria fixed by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, which carried out the review. "Although the researchers say that the differences between organic and non-organic food are not 'important', due to the relatively few studies, they report in their analysis that there are higher levels of beneficial nutrients in organic compared to non-organic foods." "There are limited studies available on the health benefits of organic versus non-organic food," he added. "Without large-scale, longitudinal research, it is difficult to come to far-reaching clear conclusions on this, which was acknowledged by the authors of the FSA review. "Organic farming and food systems are holistic, and are produced to work with nature rather than to rely on oil-based inputs such as fertilisers." The review identified 162 articles published between January 1958 and February 2008 and found a third met its quality criteria. Researchers looked for differences in content of nutrients and other substances in 3,558 comparisons but did not examine levels of contaminants such as pesticides. In data from studies of crops that met the scientists' criteria, differences were identified in three of the 23 most commonly cited nutrients. 
