food reviews
{ John O'Keeffe 
    January 25 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/books/from-california-to-your-plate-is-raw-power-the-new-atkins-26217076.html }
'BUT I do say to you kill neither men nor beasts, nor yet the food which goes intoyour mouth. For if you eatliving food the same will quicken you, but if you kill your food the dead foodwill kill you also. For life comes only from life and from death comes always  death."    Cheery stuff, you'll agree - and you would be forgiven for thinking this biblical quotation  might ma Eat Smart, Eat Raw Kate Wood Grub Street, stg£10.99 'BUT I do say to you kill neither men nor beasts, nor yet the food which goes intoyour mouth. For if you eatliving food the same will quicken you, but if you kill your food the dead foodwill kill you also. For life comes only from life and from death comes always death." Cheery stuff, you'll agree - and you would be forgiven for thinking this biblical quotation might mark the beginning of yet another John Grisham rollercoaster. It may therefore be somewhat difficult to believe that this should be used in the introduction to Kate Wood's entirely sensible book dedicated to raw food recipes. There is always some celebrity or other who embraces these types of diets with gusto. Hollywood stars Demi Moore and Alicia Silverstone are fans of raw, vegetarian food. In fact, it was such a diet that helped the forty-something Moore look as sleek as a woman half her age in last year's movie Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle. OK, it's time for a confession. If you were to cut me open right now, you would find little more than a few tubes of Pringles and quite a lot of Smithwicks. While it is neither a diet I would advise, nor one which I have heard any member of the medical profession recommend, it was nonetheless with some cynicism that I came to review a book which advocates the eating of raw foods. Frankly, I would prefer to have my eyeballs skewered than eat raw food, and my idea of any vegetable is an over-boiled Brussels sprout lying limply beside a load of other emasculated yellowy/green things. To me, they have no real business being on this earth, when you could have a nice Big Mac or indeed a Curly Wurly. I may be wrong. This book will open your eyes and certainly, on paper, I now contemplate the possibility of not only eating vegetables on a regular basis, but possibly even eating raw ones. This book benefits by being written by a mother of three, and Kate Wood makes sensible observations without straying into the "crusty, leading a smelly dog on a string" area - an entirely possible scenario where vegetable lovers are concerned. Indeed Wood admits that 100 per cent raw is impractical in the world in which we live and "constant denial of other foods can be more harmful than the foods themselves". The author herself embarked on a raw food diet some 10 years ago. She used to binge on crisps and biscuits, but soon realised that what she was putting into her body was doing her little good. The point she makes in her introduction is that raw foods are good for you - period. The body recognises cooked food as a poison and reacts accordingly. Eating it causes leucocytosis (an increase in white blood cells). Indeed, she advises that hot dogs particularly cause a bodily reaction similar to poisoning which might go some way to explaining the peculiar look on my youngest daughter's face in recent times. The recipes however will surprise and impress in equal measure. Not only do they look nice, they look like you might actually want to eat them. If you like hummus, why not try raw hummus, which uses the same ingredients but is made from sprouted chick peas rather than cooked ones? You could then follow this up with a mushroom burger (a mixture of celery, mushrooms and onion with a touch of tahini). For the kids, why not try sunflower sausages (which Wood swears her sons adore as they taste far better than any processed vegetarian sausages you find in the shops). Even mouth-watering puddings are included, such as a tropical fruit pudding, or, for those irritating children, why not whip up banana ice cream or mango sorbet so they can put a lid on it? In case you think the notion of eating raw vegetables is in some way uncool, you may wish to think again- in fact, nothing could be further from the truth. San Francisco boasts one of the world's first raw food restaurants, and it now lays claim to being one of the city's trendiest as well. For old crinklies like myself, asking me to change my diet would generally be about as successful as asking the Pope to come on the tear to Lillie's. Wood however takes a refreshingly holistic approach to what many might regard as dietary hara-kiri. She recommends a diet that is high in raw food, but also includes "superfoods", plenty of water, plenty of rest, exercise, a positive outlook, regular colonics (oh no, missus) and a sound relationship with a homeopath (platonic). With recipes that will have your eyes popping and your stomach rumbling, Wood's book achieves the unimaginable: it actually makes uncooked foods look interesting. Now, with your permission, I'm off to make my nut andbanana cheesecake, as the lads are coming around this evening. 
