food reviews
{  
    November 05 2010 09:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/lifestyle/a-man-with-great-taste-27857427.html }
WHAT IS TRUE PATRIOTISM but the love of food one ate as a child and Italian born, renowned chief and author Paolo Tullio is nothing if not patriotic. His book North of Naples, South of Rome is an anecdotal tour of the beautiful Comino Valley where he was born, the food he grew up eating and the Italian way of living where cooking food is the second religion. He has also completed, his fourth book to date, Paolo Tullio Cooks Italian and in it he continues his love and loyalty to Italian cuisine with a cookery book full of his favourite recipes and facts about the history of Italian cooking. I asked the popular restaurant reviewer and resident critic on RTE's hit show The Restaurant, now in its eighth series, why there is so much interest in the subject of food. 'Cooking and eating food is something we all do at least twice a day and it is one of the joys in life that has a longer window than most. You start eating shortly after you are born and you can eat almost to the moment of your death. Where as other pleasures have a much shorter life span,' he says with a wry smile. Then on a more serious note he adds, ' There is a lot of interest in food, in watching TV cookery programmes and the like. But it's a vicarious activity. People buy cookery books, they look at the pictures, they keep them in the kitchen but most people don't actually cook. I would like to see more people cooking at home and having a greater awareness of what they are putting into their bodies.' Paolo Tullio who is author and host of The Food and Wine Net, a site dedicated to the joys of food and wine, passionately believes that we have handed too much control of the production of food to big industry and the cost is the poor quality of mass produced food we now have on our supermarket shelves. He strongly believes that even staple foods like bread, milk, meat and eggs are now of a much poorer quality than they were say, 80 years ago, when most people grew vegetables, had a few hens or a pig and bought their milk unpasturised from the local farmer. ' You can't get proper milk now,' he tells us, ' you can get stuff in the supermarket that looks like milk but does not have the same properties as the milk that comes out of a cow. They have stripped out all of the goodness and now call it "supermilk". You also have to ask yourself how come the human race has survived for countless millennia without pasteurisation. People naturally build up anti-bodies against various things.' Apart from his concerns about the quality of the foods we are consuming, Paolo Tullio does appears to be living ' la dolce vita' in his lovely country house in Annamoe, Co. Wicklow, with it's lush forest, mountainous backdrop and feathery red hens running about the garden. He also spends as much time as he can in the idyllic setting of the old family villa in northern Italy where he can relax and write in warmer temperatures. Amicably divorced from his wife of 23 years Susan Morley, a sister of Chris de Burgh's wife Diane, they share the occasional cups of coffee and enjoy a close relationship with their two grown-up children, Rocco and Isabella both artists working in Dublin and in Florence. 'Chris de Burgh and I were friends all through Trinity College,' Paolo tells us, ' and some time after I met Susan, I introduced him to Diane and that's how they got together. Susan and I have remained good friends since our marriage break-up and I must say, overall I've had a very good life. I'm living stress-free and very well these days. When the stresses of rearing children, educating them, etc. were out of the way, I felt what else is there to worry about. It's really about what makes me happy now, that's all I have to think about. I take my writing work with me when I go to Italy and there is no stress. I see it, as just another room with a different dining table except the weather's warmer.' Paolo has been enjoying new found fame and attention with the success of RTE's Restaurant Show but is no stranger to the limelight having worked as an actor over the years on stage at The Gate Theatre and The Tivoli Theatre, among others. He has also had film parts in Neil Jordan's The Bucher Boy and John Boorman's The General and more recently a part in The Tailor of Panama. This congenial chief, with a flare for the dramatics, talks about being an actor and why he thinks The Restaurant is so popular. ' I'm still acting occasionally and doing a lot of voiceovers but writing for the Irish Independent newspaper as restaurant reviewer and wine correspondent is the job that I've had the longest. ' To be honest with you, when I came to live in Ireland in 1968, I decided that actors were self-obsessed, shallow-minded and not something I wanted to be. At the time I was working with Michael Colgan and we had an actor's agency together. I was meeting quite a lot of actors and I thought I don't want to be one of these people. I've obviously changed my mind since,' he laughs warmly before adding, ' The Restaurant programme has been a great surprise, a huge success. It was originally made for one season but it's officially in its eighth season now. I think there are so many facets of it that people enjoy, like the vox pops at the end and listening to the diners comments. I'm sure viewers enjoy the celebrity aspect of it too and I'm enjoying being part of it very much.' The question that is often asked of Paolo Tullio and Tom Doorly, the other resident food and wine critic on the show is why they, as experts and connoisseurs get the choice of wine wrong more often than not. Taking a deep breath, Paolo explains patiently just how difficult a job that has become. 'It makes for good television but it is almost an impossible task. I've noticed when we do get it right it doesn't get into the final editing. ' Twenty years ago you could do blind tasting very easily. The grapes hadn't travelled worldwide, you knew the area they came from. Nowadays, wines like Sauvignon Blanc, Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon, Shiraz etc. are produced all over the world. Even if you recognise a Sauvignon Blanc for example you can't tell what country it's from. It's not the place that gives wine the taste, it's the grape. And sometimes you can be given a wine that is a blend of four different grapes, so it's pointless. It's actually becoming impossible. There must be more than a million wines available now on the planet.' PAOLO TULLIO ALSO hails from a dynasty of food enthusiasts, starting with his grandfather, Mario Fusco, who owned an ice-cream parlour in the town of Alloa in Scotland and continuing on with his parents Dioniso and Irene Tullio owning a number of restaurants including the very popular eatery The Green Rooster in O'Connell Street in Dublin for many years. ' The ice cream parlour my gran father owned was an unusually beautiful building.' Paolo recalls. 'It was designed by the wellknown architect Charles Rennie Machintosh and is still there as a listed building today. I have wonderful memories as a child eating delicious ice cream and being fascinated by the place.' Paolo's father died at the young age of 56 of a heart attack. A sad event, he tells us, that has hit home again for him now that he is older than his father was when he died. 'I was very young at the time my Dad died. I thought I was immortal. I have recently thought about how young he was and remind myself to look after my health. 'I don't feel old and to be honest I don't get myself checked out as often as I should. I live under the assumption that if I feel well, I must be well.' Paolo Tullio's good humoured, balanced and positive attitude to life is obviously a good recipe for staying stress-free and happy and also a message of hope to anyone harbouring negative thoughts about getting older as he tells us about his home and his recently more contented lifestyle. 'I love living here in Wicklow and have done so for the past 30 years. The only way I'll be moving out if here is in a box.' he laughs. 'I love the countryside in this part of the world and I'm very happy living alone but I also enjoy the company of nice ladies. I'm currently in a relationship with a lady who lives in Dalkey. 'I can honestly tell you, I have never enjoyed my life as much as I have in the last few years. I'm not rich but I don't have money problems. I have enough to live on. I am not envious of friends who are multi-millionaires, they often have their own problems. I suspect the answer to being happy is to be content with what you've got. And not to be fretting about what you haven't got. You'll find that people content with what they have and making the best of it, tend to be happier people.' 
