food reviews
{ Pete Wedderburn - Animal Doctor 
    December 02 2015 05:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/lifestyle/pet-food-the-new-fad-diet-for-hungry-humans-34249750.html }
Nutrition is one of the most important parts of our lives, for humans and for animals. It's been said many times, and it's still true: "we are what we eat". Food provides us with the energy to go about our daily activities, and it provides the building blocks that create, repair and maintain our bodies and minds. Food also represents one of the major ways that we interact with the world around us: we spend a significant amount of the money we earn buying food in the supermarket, and our food choices literally change the world. As an example, a report this week pointed out that livestock production (i.e. meat and milk) accounts for about 15 per cent of global greenhouse emissions: the same proportion as direct emissions from cars, planes, trains and ships combined. The report suggested that meat should be taxed to reduce consumption. Not only would this help the environment, but it would also help the health of the nation, as it's estimated that it would benefit most people if they ate around half the amount of meat that they currently consume. Pet nutrition is equally significant. Over 80% of the cost of keeping a pet is spent on buying food, and like humans, "pets are what we feed them". You need to find a diet that suits your pet, and if you do that, they'll be healthier and happier as a consequence. And, as with humans, you can reflect on the impact that your food choice for your pet has on the environment. It's now possible to feed a dog on a vegetarian diet, although this is not recommended for cats. Cats are pure carnivores: a vegetarian diet would be the equivalent of feeding a horse on meat. So how do you choose which diet is best for your pet? There's a vast range of pet foods on the market, and there are many strongly opinionated views on which is best, from cheapest to priciest, raw to ultra-processed, meatiest to vegetarian. Last week, I was at a conference that featured a debate on pet nutrition. We heard the viewpoints of a panel of experts which included a vet who has trained in the US to become a nutritional specialist, an owner of a commercial pet food company and a vet who markets "raw food" for dogs. Each expert gave a presentation that reflected their particular angle, but interestingly, they all agreed on certain key points. First, a pet's diet must be "complete and balanced" i.e. it must contain the essential nutrients in the correct quantities. If a diet is unbalanced, it can take many months for a problem to become evident, and even then, the problem can be so subtle that it can be difficult to diagnose. Sometimes it can just be that a dog is "not thriving", with changes like a dry coat, increased susceptibility to minor infections and mild digestive disturbances. If there's a serious deficiency of some kind, there can be far more serious signs of ill health. Secondly, all commercial diets sold in Ireland are legally bound to comply with European pet food guidelines which ensure that they are complete and balanced. These guidelines have been drawn up by nutritional experts. This means that owners can be reassured that if they buy a product which says "complete pet food" on the label, they will be giving their pet all of the nutrients that they need to remain healthy. Thirdly, however "sensible" a home prepared diet may seem, owners cannot be certain that it contains all necessary nutrients in the correct proportions. The only way to be sure that a home made diet can be guaranteed to provide good quality, balanced nutrition is to employ the services of a nutritionist to carry out an analysis of the ingredients. This may sound complicated, but nowadays with the internet, it's easy to find an expert nutritional adviser who will review the formulation of a diet, and give an opinion about adding or subtracting minerals, vitamins, oils and other ingredients. Somebody at the debate asked a good question: "If a nutritionist is so important for pet food, how is it that humans seem to manage so well creating their own dietary plans without professional help?" The answer from the panel was interesting. Many humans do indeed suffer from nutritional disease (obesity is the obvious one), and they would benefit from the services of a nutritional advisor. Nutritional deficiencies can produce subtle signs that are common but often go undiagnosed (e.g. low vitamin D levels). The nutritional expert at the forum made an interesting point: bizarrely, if many humans chose to eat complete dog food, they might end up having a more balanced diet than what they are currently eating. Last year, an American blogger lived for six days on nothing but pet food: dry kibble for breakfast, chicken pate for lunch, beef chunks with gravy for dinner. She lost weight and her blood test results improved, but perhaps that's not surprising: most of us in our society eat too much, and if the only option was pet food, we'd all eat much less, and we'd be healthier as a result. When it comes to healthy eating, pets have a big advantage over humans: they can only eat what they are offered. We humans have the challenge of free will. Even if a nutritional expert told us what to eat, we'd probably still enjoy over-indulging. More chocolate, anyone? Bray People 
