food reviews
{  
    October 26 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/health-wellbeing/healthy-eating/stealth-health-whats-the-case-for-calorie-counts-on-menus-38628991.html }
Nine years ago, Niamh and Sinead Costello, sisters and co-owners of Bay restaurant in Clontarf, Dublin, decided to do something that no other Irish restaurant had done.  Working alongside a registered dietician and their head chef, they itemised every last ingredient in their recipes, painstakingly crunched the numbers and printed the calorie content of their dishes on their menus. The sisters, who are also behind Fishbone restaurant, didn't change their menu to incorporate more healthy options. Diners can still enjoy their sticky chicken wings (417 kcal for a small portion and 767 kcal for a large portion) or their beef burger with chips (919 kcal). And they can still look forward to specials each month, even if the process from devising the dish to calculating its calorie content can take "about four days". "We just felt it was about giving information to our customers," explains Niamh. "And we found they really appreciated it. "It doesn't deter people but it helps people if they are on that track. And it they're in the humour to have a dessert, they'll still have it." The Costello sisters were ahead of the curve. Back then, displaying calories on a menu was revolutionary. Fast forward almost 10 years and it is set to become compulsory. Health Minister Simon Harris is working on a draft scheme of a bill that will enforce calorie labelling on restaurant menus. It's part of the Government's obesity action plan, and it is expected to be finalised by the end of the year. Research shows that people eat less fat and salt, and order less, when calories are displayed on menus. Research also shows that there is consumer demand for calorie labelling. When the Food Safety Authority of Ireland (FSAI) commissioned a survey as part of their 2012 national consultation, 96pc of respondents said they wanted to see calorie menu labelling in all or some outlets. In 2014, the FSAI launched MenuCal, an online tool that allows food services to calculate the calorie content of their menu items free of charge. The following year, the Government approved proposals for the drafting of legislation on calorie menu labelling. A number of chain restaurants with set menus have voluntarily added calorie labelling to their menus. However, independent restaurants with limited resources and ever-changing menus say the legislation is completely unfeasible. Public consultation They are also concerned about the lack of clarity. For now, at least, they don't know how it is going to be enforced, monitored or penalised. A spokesperson from the Department of Health told Review that the specifics of the scheme are still to be determined "but they will be informed by the outcome of a public consultation on calorie posting which will be conducted in the coming weeks", adding that the "approach to enforcement and the penalties for breaches of the legislation will be determined with guidance from the Office of the Attorney General during the drafting process". Chief executive of the Restaurants Association of Ireland (RAI), Adrian Cummins, says the legislation is "unworkable" and "unpoliceable". "It will cost businesses through man hours to implement," he says. "Through our economic assessment, we calculate that the man hours involved in testing and uploading ingredients will cost businesses about €5,000. "Time is money. And people want to run a business - they don't want to be wrapped up in red tape, day in, day out. "As for all the accolades that Ireland won in the Michelin awards… well, you may as well write off Ireland as a food destination if you bring in calorie testing - and it's as simple as that." Adding recipes to MenuCal is certainly time-consuming. Chefs have to enter the ingredients, quantities and serving size, as well as the cooking processes (deep-fried, shallow-fried, battered, crumbed, etc). If a restaurant buys pre-made food from distributors, they have to add in the values that are found on the food label. And if a restaurant's menu changes daily, they may have to do it all over again the following day. (It has been suggested that food items on sale for less than 30 days of the year may be exempt from the legislation, but this hasn't been made entirely clear yet to restaurant owners.) "It's a big ask," says restaurant consultant Patrick O'Reilly. "They're not doctors. They're not nutritionists. They're cooks. It's not part of their DNA. "If it educates [diners] and enables them to make better decisions, then that is to be applauded and supported, but to enforce it on restaurants who are going to have serious difficulty implementing it is unfair." O'Reilly says chefs who work with hyper-seasonal ingredients and unusual foraged ingredients will struggle most with the legislation. "It's difficult enough for them to come up with a menu on a day-to-day basis or weekly basis and now to be asked to calorie count… Certain chefs are just going to throw a number at it - and it will be an educated guess." Dietician Orla Walsh says she is already seeing these rough estimates displayed on menus in restaurants around the country. Calories were inaccurate "They're completely wrong and have been wrong for years and there's not enough policing of it," she says. "Recently I was out for dinner and the calories on the menu were completely and utterly inaccurate. I emailed them and told them, and now I'm calculating the calories for them." The FSAI have indicated that restaurants will have an allowable margin of error when calculating calories, with sources suggesting that it could be as wide as 30pc. Yet even with the potential for inaccuracy and error, Walsh believes that calorie menu labelling is a positive step. It can encourage diners to make better choices, she says, and encourage chefs to devise less calorific recipes. "I think we need to stay realistic," she adds. "Some might argue that they don't want to see calories on menus because eating out is a treat, but the truth is that people eat out quite a lot." She's right. A study by Irish Universities Nutrition Alliance (IUNA) found that Irish people consume 24pc of their calories outside the home (or through takeaway food). This rises to 33pc for the Deliveroo generation of 18 to 35 year olds. And as lightning fast-food delivery of a vast array of cuisines becomes the new normal, it's helpful to know just how calorific some of these dishes are. Take the popular Dublin-based Thai takeaway restaurant Diep, who have displayed calories on their menu since 2017. Customers might be surprised to learn that six pieces of their Bangkok fried chicken contains 680 kcal, or that a side of egg noodles contains 830 kcal. Likewise, customers might be encouraged to order a healthier option such as chargrilled chicken satay (371 kcal) or a side of rice noodles (387 cal) instead. Diep didn't calculate their calories using the free tool provided by the FSAI. They delegated the job to Frances Kelly of CALculate My Menu (see panel), who visited the kitchens and conducted an audit of their ingredients. Kelly, who graduated from University College Dublin with a BSc in Human Nutrition in 2015, says it's easier to provide calorie counting services to restaurants with set menus. However, things get a bit more complicated when a restaurant changes their menu regularly or cooks everything from scratch. "Take a bone broth that a chef has thankfully put a lot of time and effort into making - putting in a bit of this and a bit of that. How do you calculate the calories in it?" she asks. "You don't want to stifle creativity. "And you don't want to stifle seasonality. If the veg guy says, 'I have some lovely artichokes in', you don't want the chef to turn around and say, 'No thanks, I don't want to change the menu'. "People aren't going out to these restaurants three or four times a week and they're certainly not ordering them on Just Eat three or four times a week," she adds. "They go out for a very special meal to a restaurant that is seasonal, creative and expensive. And I don't know if that's the source of the type of calories that are causing an obesity epidemic." Hannah O'Hagan Brennan has similar concerns about the impact that the legislation will have on intuitive, creative cooking. "It's just going to create more admin, more paperwork and more hassle - and it's going to reduce creativity really," she says. She also worries that calorie counts on menus will encourage disordered eating, and the idea that food is either 'good' or 'bad'. "I don't like the notion of calorie-counting diets because it doesn't treat food as a whole and it kind of demonises food in a way," she says. "It puts a cloud of guilt over food and we'll probably have more eating disorders in the future because there won't be that respect for food and the joy will be taken out of it." The very logic behind calorie counting has to be considered, too. As geneticist Giles Yeo explains in his book Gene Eating, foods have different 'caloric availability' - that is the number of calories digestion can extract from a food versus the number of actual calories in the food. The glycaemic index should also be taken into account. A diner who is blindly counting calories will more than likely choose crème brûlée (350 kcal) over a cheeseboard (550 kcal). Yet a diner with some nutritional know-how will choose the cheeseboard (and skip the crackers) because they understand that it won't spike their blood sugar and have them reaching for a packet of biscuits when they get home. And if we're going to become more aware of the calorie content of food, we have to consider the calorie content of alcoholic drinks, too. The FSAI survey also asked consumers if they would like to see menu labelling on alcoholic drinks and an overwhelming majority of 84pc said that they would. A spokesperson from the Department of Health said The Public Health (Alcohol) Act already provides for the calorie content of alcohol products in licensed premises. However, Walsh believes that a combined effort to label both food items and alcoholic drinks in restaurants would help people make healthier choices. "A large glass of wine is 190 kcal. A pint of beer, depending on the brand, could have as little as 140 kcal and as much as 240 kcal. Imagine I was in the pub and, every 20 minutes to an hour, I went up to the bar and got two slices of toast and ate them. People would start to notice and say that girl is eating a lot! But two slices of toast is the same as a standard drink in a pub." Psychological principles The knock-on effects of alcohol should also be taken into consideration, she adds. "It's not just the calories in the drink. It's the calories when you're nibbling on snacks like nuts, the calories on the way home… The next day you won't have slept as well so you wake up tired and you might wake up hungover. That means your food choices that day will be affected by the alcohol consumed the night before. And it means you're less likely to exercise, too." The other concern being voiced by health experts is the possibility of diners becoming desensitised to calorie labelling after long-term exposure to it. Otherwise, restaurateurs could employ psychological pricing principles (while staying within the margin of error). "It's a bit of a minefield, psychologically speaking," says Charles Spence, a professor of experimental psychology and the author of Gastrophysics: The New Science of Eating. "Do you put all the low-calorie items together or structure it as you always have so you'll have a high-calorie item followed by a low-calorie item? And that's going to lead to different behaviour as you're more likely to compare the calories when they're intermixed." He goes on to mention a well-known US food chain that uses 'charm pricing' on their calorie labelling - for example 499 kcal, rather than 500 kcal. "They put the calorie count on main courses, but it's not on desserts or the drinks," he adds. "So people might choose a low-calorie option for their main and then squeeze [drinks and dessert] in in a guilt-free way, if you like." It's food for thought - and a reminder that customers will have to be as vigilant as restaurateurs when this legislation is eventually rolled out. After all, what's the point of counting calories if the numbers don't add up?   Since 2014, food businesses have had access to MenuCal, a free online tool from the Food Safety Authority of Ireland (FSAI) that helps chefs tally the calorie content of their food items. MenuCal was developed by a group of computer scientists, nutritionists and food business trainers and incorporates a database of 2,000+ ingredients. It gleans its data from a wide number of sources including the UK Composition of Foods Integrated Dataset, the IUNA Irish Food Composition Dataset and the French Food Composition Dataset (ANSES). Some food businesses outsource the task to experts, such as nutritionist Frances Kelly of CALculate My Menu. Kelly has built her own database of ingredients, similar to MenuCal, and she also helps restaurants identify the allergens in their food items. Kelly begins her nutritional analysis by visiting a restaurant and chatting to the chef. She gets a sense of their recipes, ingredients and processes. “Some of them have created a master recipe book,” she explains, “but a lot of them don’t have one.” Then she seeks to understand the items that are made from scratch and the items that are ordered in from distributors. “If you look at the quick service sector, a lot of their stuff is pre-prepared,” she explains. “They’re buying in lasagne, shepherd’s pie, lemon meringue pie, doughnuts, etc. It’s easier for that sector to put calories on menus.” In time, she is hoping to work directly with food distributors. “My idea is that the large distribution companies like Pallas and Musgrave would upload calories on to my platform and then restaurants wouldn’t have to worry about holding on to the nutritional labels.” The issue of serving size can complicate matters, she says. “Go to a carvery and compare the plate that is put up to you and the plate put out to the big fella beside you,” she points out. “I did a chain of 16 restaurants, and they were very happy to standardise the portions,” she adds.  “From their point of view, it was a waste-control measure.” A few months later, she visits the restaurant again to perform an audit and make sure the ingredients and processes haven’t changed, and that the pre-made food is still coming from the same supplier. Kelly charges approximately €3,000 for her service, and more if the restaurant has more than one branch, an extensive menu and/or cooks most of their food from scratch. Indo Review 
