food reviews
{  
    July 18 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/small-scale-food-producers-under-threat-food-forum-delegates-told-macreddin-hosts-first-food-forum-27763684.html }
EU Commissioner David Byrne was the keynote speaker at the first National Food Forum and Food Fair organised by the European community of chefs, Euro Toques, and held at Macreddin Village at the Brooklodge Hotel, Aughrim. The forum, entitled 'Demanding a choice for real food', heard from speakers about the issues facing Ireland's endangered artisan and micro food processors and discussed the best way forward to preserve and develop this important sector of agriculture. 'We believe that if quality artisan producers are not supported at this time, that the whole food chain will be dominated by large multi-nationals with global distributions. Foods will start tasting the same, and diversity, originality and flavour will diminish,' said Ross Lewis, Commissioner General of Euro-Toques Ireland. Kiltegan organic producer, Penny Lange, said that she and her husband Udo, promised each other when they started farming that they would one day create a place where they would produce food for people they knew, grown with integrity. 'To be organic means non-use of herbicides, pesticides, and genetically modified seed and an extensive livestock system, to name but a few points,' she said. 'However, we are more burdened down by paperwork and inspections than the people who use the chemicals on their lands and farm intensively. Why is the non-user penalized in having to constantly prove he doesn't use, rather than those who use? What kind of logic is that?' EU Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection, David Byrne, said the key elements in the way forward were Balance and Flexibility. 'I want to see a confident, vibrant, diverse food industry underpinned by the security of safety, yet free to compete on the grounds of quality, innovation and excellence.' John McKenna, author and publisher, of The Bridgestone Guides said there was a moral responsibility on the Government to create a food culture which would educate our children in the complexity, knowledge, appreciation, and respect for good food and what it means. Some of the conclusions agreed upon included support and recognition is needed from National Government and the Department of Agriculture; financial assistance must be forthcoming under the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP); hygiene legislation must to be enforced consistently but with due regard to the size of operation and potential danger to the public; Euro-Toques chefs and artisan producers must be part of the consultative process in any future legislation; and current legislation needs to be reviewed to take account of the needs of artisan producers. The forum was followed by a three-course organic lunch with organic wines prepared by Euro-Toques members Evan Doyle, proprietor of the Brooklodge, and head chef, Frederick Souty 
