food reviews
{ John  Mulligan 
    August 13 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/irish-food-and-beverage-firms-have-19bn-to-pick-up-impaired-assets-26558113.html }
Irish listed food and beverage companies are well-positioned to make bolt-on acquisitions of assets that have been financially impaired as a result of the credit crisis, a major report published by Bloxham Stockbroker's Joe Gill has maintained. In a sectoral review of the Irish listed food and drink companies, including Greencore, Fyffes, C&C and Kerry Group, Mr Gill estimates that the companies reviewed have combined firepower of €1.9bn to deploy on acquisitions. He said if the funds are deployed correctly, the eight companies reviewed could significantly enhance their market positions around the world over the next couple of years. "We also believe that goal can be progressed without leaning on equity investors to finance expansion", he said. The other food companies scrutinised by Mr Gill were Total Produce, Aryzta, Origin Enterprises and Glanbia. The market value of the companies analysed has risen 30pc since he undertook his last review in February, with C&C, Fyffes, Total Produce and Origin having the best performances. Mr Gill said a strengthening of sterling against the euro since January is helping the Irish listed food and beverage firms to export more competitively from Ireland, while UK profits are being translated at a more benign exchange rate. He said this gives him "some optimism" for the second half of the current year ahead of the pending reporting season. The companies reviewed had demonstrated strong finances, conservative guidance and cautious development during the first seven months of the year, said Mr Gill, while valuations had not materially expanded despite share rises since February. "This gives us confidence that more gains can accrue during the rest of 2009 and into 2010," he said in his report. "In the absence of any major acquisitions, we do not expect any equity issuance from the Irish food group given their strong balance sheets. This gives us confidence in valuations and prospective dividend payments." Mr Gill said companies enjoy valuations that remain attractive in both an ISEQ context and relative to their international peers, and offer important dividend income streams. Income investors should focus on yields stemming from Fyffes, Greencore, Origin and Total Produce, he said, while turnaround and growth investors will consider C&C given changes under way since new management took control. Those who value consistency and long-term strategic planning will judge Kerry attractive, he said, while Aryzta was a big company open to game changing transactions. 
