food reviews
{  
    August 29 2011 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/its-war-on-flab-and-the-rules-are-changing-26765978.html }
Earlier this summer, America ditched its Food Pyramid healthy eating model. It was goodbye to the modified MyPyramid, which had barely lasted six years, and hello to the colourful MyPlate. Here in Ireland, the Department of Health is set to announce new healthy eating guidelines this autumn. It initiated a review of the existing guidelines, along with the Food Pyramid, in reaction to the growing obesity levels in this country (latest figures show that 61pc of Irish adults are overweight or obese). The Department is tight-lipped about what these new guidelines contain and whether it will revamp the Food Pyramid or come up with something completely different. A spokesperson told 'Health & Living' that the process is, "almost complete -- the final stage is now underway". When asked specifically about America's decision to drop the Food Pyramid, the spokesperson said, "While the Department is aware of the new US model, a plate and glass model, our revised materials have focus- tested well with social groups and the farming community." Reading between the lines, it sounds like a plate model is not on the cards -- leaving the options of a revised Food Pyramid or something new. The Food Pyramid has been around in Ireland since 1993 -- we modified the American version which appeared in 1992. While there has been some criticism of the Food Pyramid over the years, many health professionals think it contains essentially good advice. "To be honest, I've always quite liked the Food Pyramid," says Sarah Keogh, consultant dietitian at the Albany Clinic in Dublin. "I think it's very difficult to get the perfect healthy eating model that every single person is going to understand. "I think though that people sometimes glance at the Food Pyramid and they don't read the information that goes with it.  Useful "But I think as a guideline, it does show very well where the bigger amounts of your diet should come from and what you should eat smaller amounts of. I've actually found it a very useful tool when working with clients." Dr Susan B Roberts, Professor of Nutrition and Professor of Psychiatry at Tufts University in the States, thinks both the Food Pyramid and the later MyPyramid in the States were, "pretty good given the limitations of a single visual for a population of 300 million people! That said, they don't readily translate into what you should eat". Dr Muireann Cullen of the Nutrition and Health Foundation here in Ireland says that it's time for a change. "The Food Pyramid has been used in Ireland for over 18 years now and given how much our dietary habits have transformed in this time, the publication of the new dietary guidelines can't come soon enough." American doctor Andrew Weil, who is the founder and director of the Arizona Centre for Integrative Medicine at the University of Arizona, isn't much of a fan. "Early versions of the government's Food Pyramid guidelines were more of a representation of political and food industry preferences than of nutritional science and health," he says. "Outcry from health professionals and the public resulted in improvements to the guidelines over time, but they continued to promote unhealthy ways of eating." But is it the Food Pyramid's structure that is at fault or is it people's misreading of it? A lot of the difficulty seems to lie in poor understanding of what a serving is, as outlined on the Food Pyramid. For instance, the lowest shelf shows cereals, bread and potatoes and advises six or more servings a day. But do people really understand just what size a serving should be? If we Irish are over- estimating how much a serving of potatoes, pasta or bread is, it's no wonder we're packing on the pounds. "I think the plate model does help in giving an idea of portions and gives it in a visual way," says Sarah Keogh. "When you're talking to people about 100g of this or two ounces of that, people don't always understand it.  Portions "On the other hand, when you're using a plate model, you also have people using different size plates so they may not be sticking to the correct portions." The Food Safety Authority of Ireland (FSAI) has been tasked by the Department of Health with reviewing the healthy eating guidelines and the Food Pyramid. A multi-disciplinary team including nutritionists, doctors and food scientists have spent the last four years compiling the latest research, including studies specifically looking at what Irish people eat. Dr Mary Flynn, chief specialist in public health nutrition at the FSAI, says that one of the most striking things about their research has been in the area of serving size. "Our understanding of what a serving is and the public's understanding of it can be quite different," she says. If you do a quick study of what different countries around the world use, it proves that the Food Pyramid still remains popular but that some countries choose different models. Greece, Germany, Spain and Switzerland are amongst the countries that use a Food Pyramid model -- although all have their own versions. Meanwhile, China has opted for a pagoda (house-shaped) diagram, Japan uses a spinning top, the French prefer a set of steps and Canada uses a rainbow diagram. "Sometimes food guidelines come into criticism because they don't match up with what another country has done," says Sarah Keogh. "But different countries have different needs and you have to do population modelling. "So, for instance, in Ireland we don't get a whole lot of Vitamin D. It doesn't turn up in US dietary guidelines because a lot of food there is fortified with Vitamin D. So the Irish guidelines may have something on Vitamin D." It's clear though that the forthcoming healthy eating guidelines will be more detailed and more specific to different groups than previous versions. "The dietary guidelines look at the types of food that people should be eating," says Dr Flynn, who contributed to a similar healthy eating guidelines review while working in Canada. Dr Flynn also points out that healthy eating guidelines have to be communicated to the public alongside advice to be active. It makes sense as, generally speaking, people who are more active can consume more calories than those who are sedentary. But whatever new healthy eating model we end up using in Ireland, the essential messages won't have changed radically. "At the end of the day, we might get small changes in the guidelines but the overall things remain the same," says Sarah Keogh. "We all know fruit and vegetables are important in our diet, we need fibre, we need protein and so on." Whatever diagram is chosen will need to be backed up with further explanation -- like the user-friendly website that's linked to the American MyPlate diagram. Finally, guidelines only ever work when people understand them and use them. "You can put guidelines out there but people need to be interested in their own health and take control of it," says Sarah. Health & Living 
