food reviews
{  
    November 05 2010 11:10 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/lifestyle/a-man-with-great-taste-27638543.html }
WHAT IS TRUE PATRIOTISM but the love of food one ate as a child and Italian born, renowned chief and author Paolo Tullio is nothing if not patriotic. His book North of Naples, South of Rome is an anecdotal tour of the beautiful Comino Valley where he was born, the food he grew up eating and the Italian way of living where cooking food is the second religion. He has also completed, his fourth book to date, Paolo Tullio Cooks Italian and in it he continues his love and loyalty to Italian cuisine with a cookery book full of his favourite recipes and facts about the history of Italian cooking. I asked the popular restaurant reviewer and resident critic on RTE's hit show The Restaurant, now in its eighth series, why there is so much interest in the subject of food. 'Cooking and eating food is something we all do at least twice a day and it is one of the joys in life that has a longer window than most. You start eating shortly after you are born and you can eat almost to the moment of your death. Where as other pleasures have a much shorter life span,' he says with a wry smile. Then on a more serious note he adds, ' There is a lot of interest in food, in watching TV cookery programmes and the like. But it's a vicarious activity. People buy cookery books, they look at the pictures, they keep them in the kitchen but most people don't actually cook. I would like to see more people cooking at home and having a greater awareness of what they are putting into their bodies.' Paolo Tullio who is author and host of The Food and Wine Net, a site dedicated to the joys of food and wine, passionately believes that we have handed too much control of the production of food to big industry and the cost is the poor quality of mass produced food we now have on our supermarket shelves. He strongly believes that even staple foods like bread, milk, meat and eggs are now of a much poorer quality than they were say, 80 years ago, when most people grew vegetables, had a few hens or a pig and bought their milk unpasturised from the local farmer. 'You can't get proper milk now,' he tells us, 'you can get stuff in the supermarket that looks like milk but does not have the same properties as the milk that comes out of a cow. They have stripped out all of the goodness and now call it "supermilk". You also have to ask yourself how come the human race has survived for countless millennia without pasteurisation. People naturally build up anti-bodies against various things.' Apart from his concerns about the quality of the foods we are consuming, Paolo Tullio does appears to be living ' la dolce vita' in his lovely country house in Annamoe, Co. Wicklow, with it's lush forest, mountainous backdrop and feathery red hens running about the garden. He also spends as much time as he can in the idyllic setting of the old family villa in northern Italy where he can relax and write in warmer temperatures. Amicably divorced from his wife of 23 years Susan Morley, a sister of Chris de Burgh's wife Diane, they share the occasional cups of coffee and enjoy a close relationship with their two grown-up children, Rocco and Isabella both artists working in Dublin and in Florence. 'Chris de Burgh and I were friends all through Trinity College,' Paolo tells us, 'and some time after I met Susan, I introduced him to Diane and that's how they got together. Susan and I have remained good friends since our marriage break-up and I must say, overall I've had a very good life. I'm living stress-free and very well these days. When the stresses of rearing children, educating them, etc. were out of the way, I felt what else is there to worry about. It's really about what makes me happy now, that's all I have to think about. I take my writing work with me when I go to Italy and there is no stress. I see it, as just another room with a different dining table except the weather's warmer.' Paolo has been enjoying new found fame and attention with the success of RTE's Restaurant Show but is no stranger to the limelight having worked as an actor over the years on stage at The Gate Theatre and The Tivoli Theatre, among others. He has also had film parts in Neil Jordan's The Bucher Boy and John Boorman's The General and more recently a part in The Tailor of Panama. This congenial chief, with a flare for the dramatics, talks about being an actor and why he thinks The Restaurant is so popular. 'I'm still acting occasionally and doing a lot of voiceovers but writing for the Irish Independent newspaper as restaurant reviewer and wine correspondent is the job that I've had the longest. ' To be honest with you, when I came to live in Ireland in 1968, I decided that actors were self-obsessed, shallow-minded and not something I wanted to be. At the time I was working with Michael Colgan and we had an actor's agency together. I was meeting quite a lot of actors and I thought I don't want to be one of these people. I've obviously changed my mind since,' he laughs warmly before adding, ' The Restaurant programme has been a great surprise, a huge success. It was originally made for one season but it's officially in its eighth 
