food reviews
{  
    August 02 2007 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/food-dye-banned-in-us-30-years-ago-still-used-here-26308646.html }
A SAFETY review on food additives allowed by the EU must be completed urgently, a consumer watchdog has warned, after it emerged that a colouring banned 30 years ago in the US is widely used in Ireland. The European Commission has asked the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) to look at the safety of additives, and in July it issued warnings about the food colour additive E128, also known as Red 2G. Now there are concerns about E124, another red food colouring which was withdrawn from the USA almost 30 years ago, after it emerged it is still widely used in products sold here. It is a colourant which gives a red or pink hue to foods, including icing, lollies, soft drinks, milk shakes, jelly, cheese and chewy sweets. It is also on the list of colourings that the EFSA will look at. But the full review could take until the end of 2008. In the meantime, the Food Safety Authority of Ireland (FSAI) says the colouring is used in a range of products, including soft drinks, red confectionery and cheese. Review In the USA, E124, also known as Ponceau 4R, was withdrawn after a 1979 study on dogs fed the Ponceau chemical saw three animals die and seven others suffer bladder and kidney damage. Last night, Dermott Jewell of the Consumers' Association of Ireland said it was "most important" that the review was completed as soon as possible. Colours were among the first additives to be evaluated under original European legislation and several new studies have become available since the original assessments were done. Some 45 colours are now being reassessed, with Red 2G the first to be slapped with a health warning. Carola Sondermann of the EFSA said that Ponceau 4R was in the forthcoming list of colours yet to be evaluated. She said there was no evidence in previous examinations that the additives were harmful to humans but new research would now be considered, as it had been in the case of Red 2G. GARETH MORGAN 
