food reviews
{  
    February 06 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/battle-of-the-tv-foodies-26629689.html }
There was a time when you could have summarised the business of writing about food in one single, simple word: nice. Nice people wrote about nice things to shop for and to cook and to eat. It was a world where criticism didn't exist -- though there might, occasionally, be a disappointing cheese soufflé or recipe for battenburg cake less precise than one might like. There was no need to use harsh, critical terms when writing about food, terms like "cloying", or "irritating", or "ludicrous", or "bizarre", or "daft", or "bunkum", or "deeply insulting" or "crazy" or "elitist". And there certainly was no need, in this nice world, to suggest that anyone else's opinions were so odious, so Godawful, that expressing them meant "the people of Ireland are owed an apology". Blimey! This is modern food writing? What happened to that nice, decorous world? Isn't this the strange cheffy world where macho fools like Gordon Ramsay and Marco Pierre White trade not just insults but actual punches? No, this is modern Irish food writing, and all the terms above were used by celebrity restaurant reviewer Tom Doorley, in a recent article, where he took me to task for what I had written in the introduction to the new, ninth edition of The Bridgestone Irish Food Guide. Before we get on to what provoked Tom's ire, you are probably wondering how I am feeling after that verbal assault with all those toxic terms. Hurt? Humbled? Chastened? Apologetic? To tell the truth, after I had finished reading Tom's piece, the famous retort of Denis Healey, the former UK Labour Party minister, came to mind. Healey was once subjected to a verbal barrage by Geoffrey Howe, of the UK Conservative Party, in the House of Commons. After Howe had finished and sat down, Healey stood up and said he felt like he had "been mauled by a dead sheep". That's pretty much how I feel. So I guess I'll get over it. But let's not rule out counselling, just yet. What provoked Tom's ire was a paragraph in the introduction to our new Bridgestone Guide. Having asserted that modern international supermarket chains exercise power without responsibility, I went on to say that there has to be "the realisation that buying imported food in a foreign-owned supermarket in Ireland is, quite simply, a traitorous action". Strong stuff, and deliberately and consciously so. So, let me explain what lies behind such a provocative statement. A few years back, I spoke to a group of farmers and food producers in the North. A lot of them were beef producers and they were the most despairing men I have ever met. Why? Because they were being paid 28p a pound less for their beef than their counterparts in Scotland and the UK by one of the supermarket chains. These proud men could assert, truthfully, that they had the better product. No matter: their superior food earned them less, and it was destroying them. Closer to home, I was part of a delegation that spoke to the Oireachtas Committee deliberating on whether we needed a Groceries Order to prevent below-cost selling. I said we did. To my surprise, the delegation from the Dublin-Meath Growers, who also spoke, said that we didn't. They had a great relationship with a supermarket chain that accounted for 100pc of their business, they said, and they were totally happy. No need for any manner of regulation. The Oireachtas Committee agreed. In mid 2009, having invested €5m in a new processing plant, the Dublin-Meath Growers lost their contract. From 100pc to 0pc, just like that. And just as I was finishing the book, queues of shoppers from down south started clogging up the roads into Newry. Their Christmas spend was leaving the country. At a time when their own economy was nosediving, these good people reckoned it was none of their business to contribute to that economy. And I thought such behaviour was, frankly, traitorous. People like Tom Doorley tell me such an idea is "bizarre", not to mention "deeply insulting". And I can see their point. We live in a globalised world with globalised trade, and we ourselves have a food economy focused on exporting. You can't grow the cabernet sauvignon grapes in London, and you can't produce bananas in Hanover, never mind Termonfeckin. So, let's just accept the way things are. We live in a world of globalised free-market economies, and the free market sorts things out, so there is no need for regulation, stuff like Groceries Orders. Fair enough, except that this belief is just that: a belief. This belief is based on faith, a faith that says that the globalised free-market economy is in everyone's best interests. But such a belief is utterly naïve. Successful cultures and successful economies are based on food security, and on local-food economies. Many writers have sought to answer the question as to why local food is so important. The great writer Michael Pollan proposed this as a reply: "I'm thinking of the sense of security that comes from knowing that your community, or country, can feed itself; the beauty of an agricultural landscape; the outlook and kinds of local knowledge that farmers bring to a community; the satisfactions of buying food from a farmer you know rather than the supermarket; the locally inflected flavour of a raw-milk cheese or honey. All those things -- all those pastoral values -- globalisation proposes to sacrifice in the name of efficiency and economic growth." So, do I owe the people of Ireland an apology? I don't think so, but I do think that the one person in every four who made a shopping trip to the North last year owes an apology to our farmers, our marketeers, our specialist food producers, and all those who toil to put culture into our agriculture. But finally, let me agree with one part of Tom's argument. Tom brands me an "elitist". I am. I want the best, for everyone.  The Bridgestone Irish Food Guide, 9th edition, by John & Sally McKenna published by Estragon Press, €15. www.bridgestoneguides.com Irish Independent 
