food reviews
{ Jim Aughney 
    November 16 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/super-size-me-26355566.html }
Why investors can't get enough of Irish food firms and their stock FOOD industry stocks have enjoyed a re-rating on the market in recent months as investors wake up to the defensive qualities offered by companies whose products rarely go out of fashion. A couple of decades ago, the flotation of Kerry Group on the stock market heralded a new beginning for the Irish food industry. Kerry set the pace and, to a great extent, the strategy that others would at least attempt to follow. Diversification at home and expansion overseas, a policy of aggressive acquisition and reinvestment in the business helped build the company into a leading multinational player in the food ingredients business. Unfortunately for many of the stakeholders in the various co-ops outside of Kerry, the message took some time to sink in - indeed, you could argue that in some quarters it has yet to get through. Out of those who followed the Kerry path, only IAWS has enjoyed similar success. But happily for investors and regardless of what type of success companies in the sector have enjoyed at an operating level, this year has seen the market apply a general re-rating to food stocks. The upshot has been a rising tide for the sector, with all boats enjoying the ride. As one analyst pointed out, rather than company-specific news, traders have focused on the defensive qualities of the sector. The resurgence of internet stocks has led to a situation where we once again have many portfolios top-heavy with new technology investments. And while the technology is clearly not as new as it was back when the dot-com bubble burst, it is still new enough to be regarded as high risk. In this scenario investors have flocked to the food sector - which, unlike the financial sector, for instance, is pretty much immune to the prospects of a repeat of the meltdown in technology stocks endured at the start of the decade. It makes a lot of sense, particularly for Irish investors. While the Irish dairy processing sector is commonly regarded as mature, it remains one of the most vibrant sectors of Irish industry. The re-rating is all the more remarkable because the food sector here is now facing into a difficult period, one brought on by the reforms to the CAP and other changes currently impacting on the sector. That certainly is the conclusion arrived at by a reading of IBEC's recent report on the sector. It states that the dairy processing sector is "highly important" in terms of its overall contribution to the indigenous food sector and the national economy. At an annual ?2.5bn, its output represents approximately one-third of total national food output. But, it warns, Ireland is more dependent than any other EU member state on intervention for butter and skim milk powder. As intervention ceilings decline, the pressure on the industry to adapt will intensify, and that at a time when WTO negotiations will inevitably lead to greater global competitiveness in agricultural products. "This will be particularly relevant in the dairy sector, where a combination of progressive cuts in export refunds and the reduction of tariff rates will intensify competitive pressures beyond anything experienced to-date," IBEC said. The challenges facing these dairy processors are manifold and complex. Top of the pile is the Mid Term Review of the Common Agriculture Policy. Underway since 2003, this is finally starting to bite as the EU Commission finally implements a programme of CAP reform. Allied to this, the sector has to deal with the slashing of export refunds dictated by the current WTO round - they are due to go completely by 2013. On top of this, the removal of the protection afforded by EU import tariffs is a key demand of WTO partners and one that is likely to succeed. The problem for Irish companies in particular is that these reforms are starting to bite at a time when just doing business here is becoming more and more difficult. Regulatory reforms to practices dictated by measures like the EU directives on nitrates are expensive to implement, just one of the added factors driving up the cost of doing business here. Cost inflation has increased dramatically in recent years, both at farm and processor level, while alternative business opportunities are attracting commercially viable farmers out of dairying altogether. Then there is the cost of land, a fundamental component of the food sector, the building block upon which everything else rests. Simply put, without it there would be no Irish food industry. IBEC states that the cost of land is preventing farmers from expanding - but while that may well be the case, the high prices also hold out the prospect of extraordinary dividends for some of our food firms. It did not take property tycoon Liam Carroll long to latch on to the potential value offered by Greencore's surplus land holdings. These are estimated to be worth at least ?200m and presumably were a prime factor in his decision to snap up the 21pc stake in the company formerly held by financier Dermot Desmond. Land values are also at play at both IAWS and Glanbia, leaving only Kerry of the quoted food processors without an apparent 'land premium' attached to its share price. The decision by IAWS to set up a new company which will manage the "non-lifestyle" end of the business was partly motivated by the value of land holdings associated with some of the older, more traditional business units. Ultimately, this will wring greater value from these holdings and, in turn, fund the development of a side of the business which has suffered from under-investment in recent years. That leaves Kerry as the only quoted foodie without a significant property story to tell, but this will hardly worry Kerry stockholders. The Tralee-based food giant has paved the way for others to follow and, while it may be enduring a difficult year, few would not believe that the good times will return. "It will produce flat earnings during the worst year in its history, not a bad defensive position," was how one analyst summed up its current predicament.  Sweet deals put Greencore on the right track ALTHOUGH it was formerly known as "the Sugar Company", the sale of sugar is fading in prominence and priority at Greencore, according to industry sources. Recent results from the food group and the blurbs on its website confirm the scaling down in importance of sugar as a mainstream commercial activity. This is in sharp contrast to the position until 2005 when Greencore was making ?25m in operating profits from sugar processing and sales. Now it is focused on extracting maximum value from the hundreds of acres at the sites of sugar factories, particularly at Carlow and Mallow (within commuting distance from Dublin and Cork respectively). With Liam Carroll as a major shareholder, Greencore is keenly aware of the development potential of these and other surplus sites around the country and in the UK. In the latest interim results the group said Greencore Sugar remains committed to serving its customers. It has "put in place plans to supply these customers for the long term, preserving the value of the Siucra and McKinney brands". Greencore is forming a joint venture (50pc) with French and German sugar suppliers (50pc) to compete against sharper competition in the Irish and UK market. Sugar profits will fall from ?25m in 2005 to ?2m or ?3m a year going forward, analysts predict. But British Sugar could be about to eat Greencore's lunch through the setting up of a Dublin sales office with a former Irish Sugar executive to supply the 32 counties. British Sugar now owns 51pc of Illovo, Africa's largest and lowest-cost cane sugar producer, and will soon be free to sell cheaper commodity sugar on the Irish market. Greencore is also facing tougher market conditions for the sale of molasses given its withdrawal from sugar processing amid resistance from its farmer growers. Greencore has a long established molasses importation and distribution business which operates through Foynes and Dublin. Analysts expect sugar to become less and less important for the former Sugar Company within a short time. 
