food reviews
{  
    July 10 2011 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/time-to-cut-mustard-with-foodies-abroad-26750213.html }
The importance of food tourism cannot be emphasised enough. It is a huge market which has not been recognised sufficiently in promoting Ireland as a food destination. It is only recently that there has been even a vague nod to the whole business of food tourism. Last autumn, while in France, I was horrified to see a television advertisement for Ireland which showed our beautiful wild mountains and coastlines -- but then a group of fossilised-looking bods costumed in God knows what sort of historic garb, sitting, stony-faced, on a beach with a fella banging a bodhran. Unbelievably, not one mention of food was being broadcast to a nation which lives by and travels on its stomach. Earlier this year I had an email from a man in Australia, who wanted to tell me that he had been blown away by his food experiences here. He, like many others, had come on the 'ancestral trail' expecting, as he said, to have to put up with bacon and cabbage and the 'full Irish' experience. This is a perception that has to be changed rapidly by Tourism Ireland and Bord Bia. We are a nation abounding in prime, fresh, unadulterated food. It is essential, then, that Bord Bia, when promoting food events abroad, sends experienced chefs to show how to prepare our wonderful food. To do otherwise would not cut the mustard with foodies abroad. We have very well trained young chefs nowadays -- many are working in top restaurants around the world, and in time will bring the knowledge they have gained back to these shores. We also have to fight for recognition outside Ireland when it comes to the major international awards. We fall in as one of the little countries that is but an afterthought in a particular region, being bulked in with the UK, as is the case with the San Pellegrino World's 50 Best Restaurant Awards -- arguably the most influential awards around. In London recently I visited some of the city's hippest restaurants, but came away feeling that it was more about hype than the actual food. In Ireland we have nothing to be ashamed of. My first port of call in the capital was to Heston Blumenthal's new restaurant, Dinner, at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Hyde Park. Blumenthal is of course renowned for his molecular gastronomy at his mothership restaurant The Fat Duck -- now number five on World's Best Restaurant List. Like many other top chefs, he is leaning towards less expensive, more informal restaurants these days -- I almost said 'more accessible', but Dinner was booked out three months in advance. However, I managed to get a cancellation. The menu genre (or gimmick, some might say) is based on 'historic' dishes. My friend Mary had the much photographed Meat Fruit (c.1500) to start, at £13.50. Boasting a 'mandarin orange' exterior, it cuts through to a chicken liver parfait which was very pleasant. But there it was -- an optical illusion, a simple chicken liver pate served with toast. For me, it was Salamagundy (c.1720) at £15, a concoction which had three chicken oysters -- yes, those little bits at the backbone that mother picked out and handed you as a kid -- dressed with bone marrow, some leaves, and a horseradish cream. Powdered duck (c.1670) at £26.50 was two pieces of leg, beautifully puffed up and glazed, but tough as hell. Oh yes, and ordinary boiled cabbage in a white noodle bowl that I would hardly use in my own kitchen. Dinner has been receiving bouquets all round, but I really felt like the little boy in the fairytale of the Emperor's New Clothes! www.dinnerbyheston.com Here, I would say come to Dublin and visit Thornton's Michelin-starred restaurant on St Stephen's Green, where you can have a superb lunch or pre-theatre menu at €49 with slowly roasted quail, spring vegetable leaves, Szechuan pepper and thyme sauce; followed maybe by loin of rabbit, carrot puree, rabbit terrine and Valrhona chocolate sauce -- and you will feel you have really experienced something. Thornton's also does a €25 lunch menu and a superb canape selection from €4.50 to €9, with sublime morsels such as cuit of foie gras rolled in black truffle, sauteed prawn with bisque and sabayon, noisette of Wicklow lamb with wild garlic, or a sushi plate. You can have a foodie experience in Ireland for very little if you are clever. www.thorntonsrestaurant.com Our next port of call in London was to The Ledbury at Notting Hill, where Australian Brett Graham -- a thoroughly nice chap -- runs a superb two-star Michelin restaurant with just the right balance of professional yet unintimidating service. It reminded me of our own Chapter One here in Dublin, but the Ledbury is number 34 on the World Best Restaurant List. We sat outside sipping Camparis as we tucked into a truly superb three-course lunch for £33.50. For starters we had the most divine sautee of guinea fowl with stuffed morels, broad beans and summer truffle, and flamed grilled mackerel with Tokyo turnips, herring roe and mackerel tartare. Mains were roast fillet of cod with crushed new potatoes, asparagus and seaweed, and cheek of beef (the new 'belly of pork' on menus now) cooked for eight hours with creamed potato, pickled walnuts and bone marrow. We finished with a pave of chocolate with milk puree and lovage ice cream. All superb. www.theledbury.com Chapter One offers a fab, similarly priced lunch at €37.50 where you can start with potted rabbit and cured Irish ham with a mustard emulsion and marinated vegetables or gratinated asparagus with pata negra stuffing. This can be followed with haunch of veal poached in Madeira with Ferguson's smoked bacon, watercress puree and sauce blanquette, or maybe hake cooked with seaweed and Japanese salt, crab beignet, broccoli puree and lemon emulsion. www.chapteronerestaurant.com Another place that is getting rave reviews is a simple Venetian 'bacaro' in Soho called Polpo, just off Regent Street. This retro 'bacaro' is not really as simple as it first appears, with its studied casualness and funky staff, all of whom look like out-of-work actors. You would go just to see the 'street cred' gear. It has proved so popular that the owners have opened Polpetto over the iconic French House pub on Dean Street. Foodwise, it is what the Italians of Soho have done well since the Fifties and Sixties, but in small plates. I love this sort of food -- little dishes priced between £1 and £12.60. We nibbled away at marinated moscardini at £3.30 (tiny little octopuses, which you can also buy in jars from Italian food wholesalers), with fritto misto £8, and Bresaola rocket and Parmesan £6.70. We finished with chocolate salami at £2.60, which looked like a slice of large black pudding, but was solid chocolate interspersed with raisins and nuts. Great. www.polpo.co.uk However, you can experience much of the same food and buzz here in Eileen Dunne and Stefan Crescenzi's Dunne & Crescenzi or L'Officina restaurants. Eileen and Stefan have branches around Dublin and have brilliantly brought this kind of casual Italian-style dining to Ireland. www.dunneandcrescenzi.com Foodies are flying in and out of countries just to experience this or that great restaurant or food producer -- and I don't mean just the number one restaurant on the list, Noma in Copenhagen. If the restaurants I visited in London have attracted that much attention, it's time we perked up and fought harder to be included on world ratings. What about setting up a destination food centre and cookery school where tourists could take part in demos or classes as part of their visit, either free or for a nominal charge? Surely our good chefs could give their time and work out a rota to promote Irish cuisine and their businesses at the same time. Likewise, on another tack, the ancestral trail is huge and I think the Government should make genealogists available to tourists seeking help in this area. Anything to get the people into the country spending their money in Irish hotels, restaurants and shops. We need the ideas, the 'carrots', the action and involvement of self -employed people in the industry, not just those sitting in good pensionable jobs. This is where the minister, Bord Bia and Tourism Ireland come in. www.lucindaosullivan.com Sunday Independent 
