food reviews
{ John  Mulligan 
    June 26 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/greencore-orders-audit-review-after-20m-fraud-26457395.html }
Greencore is initiating a major company-wide review of its internal and external auditing procedures after it discovered a former financial controller at its Scottish water business deliberately concealed €20m in costs over a three-year period. Shares in Greencore slumped over 15pc in Dublin yesterday as the food group, which manufacturers everything from Weight Watcher meals to sandwiches and Christmas cakes, said the concealment would knock €9m off this year's forecast operating profit. It also said its 2006 operating profit would be reduced by €4m, while the restatement would wipe €8m off the 2007 operating profit figure. Speaking to the Irish Independent, Greencore chief executive Patrick Coveney described the events in its Scottish subsidiary Campsie as a "bad hit for the business and a bad hit for shareholders". The former financial controller left the mineral water company based in Lennixtown just days before the irregularities were fully discovered during a planned annual internal audit review which began in May. Three managers responsible for supervising the controller have since left the firm, which delivers over 200 million litres of water to customers, including supermarkets, every year. Greencore has declined to name the individuals concerned. Mr Coveney, who took up the reins at Greencore just three months ago, said the individual concerned had concealed a "wide range" of operating costs related to general overheads, as well as transport, distribution and raw material costs. He said the costs had been incorrectly offset against items on the subsidiary's balance sheet. The money had been subsequently held in what is called a 'suspense' account. Such accounts are common, but are normally only used on a temporary basis. It's not yet clear whether the employee had been engaged in attempted personal enrichment and Greencore is taking legal advice as to whether the money is recoverable. Greencore understands that the incident at the Scottish business is an isolated one. Mr Coveney said company executives are "trying to understand" how the deliberate concealment was missed by two previous internal audit reviews and by two external audits. Analyst Paul Meade at NCB stockbrokers described the discovery as a "major setback to Greencore's new management team". Mr Coveney added that external auditor PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC) has been asked to present the board with its findings as to how the concealment was orchestrated and how it went unnoticed. Mr Coveney declined to say whether Greencore might pursue legal action against PWC. He also refused to be drawn on whether the bottled water business, which Greencore assumed control of as part of its acquisition of UK-based Hazelwood Foods in 2001, might now be sold. "Our priority has been to get a new team into the business and to fix it," Mr Coveney said. Chris Kirk, who has been involved in Greencore's convenience food business, has now been appointed managing director of the water arm, while Michael Whelehan is acting financial director. Inflation Last month, Greencore said it expects food inflation to add over €75m to its cost base this year as global demand for edible oils and grain crops such as wheat and rice continue to rise. Its input costs, including items such as packaging, are expected to rise by between 10pc and 12pc this year. Greencore, which manufactures packaged sandwiches and chilled foods, last month agreed to pay up to $54m (€34.6m) to acquire US-based Home Made Brand Foods. That marked its first foray into the US since an unsuccessful venture there a number of years ago. 
