food reviews
{ EUGENE HOGAN 
    September 06 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/watchdog-urges-review-of-reynolds-pet-food-licence-26137628.html }
THE pet food company owned by former Taoiseach Albert Reynolds is one of ten industries identified as having an adverse impact on water quality in the Shannon catchment region. C&D Foods is among 46 operations along tributaries entering the Shannon that the report recommends should have their licence conditions reviewed as a high priority. The report does not state outright that the pet food company or any of the other named operations has been guilty of breaches of their industrial waste discharge licences. However, the recommendation that the licences be reviewed is based on the discovery of pollution of rivers nearby. Mr Reynolds' company is based at Edgeworthstown, Co Longford. Other industries that the report suggests should have their licence conditions reviewed are the ESB power station at Lanesborough, Co Longford; Hannon Poultry, Co Roscommon; Liffey Meats, Co Cavan; AIBP, Nenagh, Co Tipperary; Keepak, Athleague, Co Roscommon and Premier Proteins, Ballinasloe, Co Galway. Bord na Mona's peat abstraction plants on the River Brosna in Co Offaly, where peat milling is responsible for eight per cent of the phosphorous load, and on the Shannon Corridor are also among the 46 operations named in the report. The 97 page document is the second annual interim report prepared on behalf of the Lough Derg and Lough Ree Catchment Management Group, which was set up to promote a catchment-based approach to restore water quality in the Shannon River area which has been deteriorating steadily over the last three decades. Investigations have shown that the main threat to the water quality on the Shannon is over-enrichment brought about by excessive use of nutrients, particularly phosphorous. The most disturbing revelation in this latest report, which was published yesterday, is that some 41pc of tributaries of the Shannon system have been found unsatisfactory, while water quality on the Camlin River in Co Longford which was found to be seriously polluted, was the worst in the entire catchment system. The farming industry again bears the brunt of the blame and is identified as being responsible for 55pc of phosphorous entering the rivers that feed into the Shannon. The report estimates that an expenditure of some £30m plus will be required to address farmyard problems in the priority risk areas alone. These account for approximately 15pc of the farmed area within the Lough Derg and Lough Ree catchment and the figure does not include ongoing farm investment needs in the remaining 85pc catchment. The continued impact of inadequate sewage treatment facilities is also recognised in the report. However, local authorities are currently implementing a £48m investment programme.  IFA president Tom Parlon said the study overstates the phosphorous loading in the lakes from agriculture without accurately quantifying phosphorous levels to surface waters from the natural background or from septic tanks in the area. 
