food reviews
{ Lisa Jewell 
    November 08 2007 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/medicines-mixed-up-messages-26330276.html }
It's a recipe for confusion. One day we're told that a certain food, drink or activity is good for us. "Great news," we say, "I'll stick to that in the future." But just a few days or weeks later, the advice has changed and it's back to the drawing board for our healthy intentions. The fact that there are so many different studies, often giving contradictory results, means we're bombarded with mixed messages about what's best for our wellbeing. Here we take a look at a few of the recent health studies to hit the headlines and present the pros and cons. This one crops up regularly in our headlines, with both positive and negative implications, making us wonder if there's any point in cracking open another bottle of vin rouge. Good news "Chemical in red wine, fruits and vegetables may stop cancer, heart disease, depending on the dose" -- Science Daily (Nov 1, 2007) New research carried out by French scientists has shown that very high doses of antioxidant polyphenols (found in red wine) can prevent cancerous tumours by stopping the formation of new blood vessels needed for tumour growth. Bad news "Three drinks a day increases risk of breast cancer by a third" -- London Independent (Sept 27, 2007) One of the largest individual studies on the links between alcohol and breast-cancer risk has shown that women who have more than three drinks a day of wine, beer or spirits increase their risk of breast cancer by 30pc. Are you a bad parent for sticking the kids in front of the goggle box? Good news "TV is good for children, insists academic" -- The Scotsman (Oct 1, 2007) A leading Scottish educationalist has come out in favour of television, saying it can help children to develop important social skills and learn how to play. "Encouraging children to make links between what they see on screen and the content of their play can do much to foster creativity, decision-making skills and opportunities for problem-solving that will be useful to them in their future learning," Dr Ross Deuchar told The Scotsman. Bad news "Child hypertension linked to TV viewing" -- Irish Health (Oct 30, 2007) A US study has found that watching television not only leads to obesity in children but also to hypertension (high blood pressure). The research, conducted at the University of California, showed that children who watched two to four hours of television every day had 2.5 times the chance of getting hypertension compared with children who watched TV for less than two hours a day. It's often more expensive but does the extra cost pay health dividends? Good news "Organic produce 'better for you'" -- BBC News (Oct 29, 2007) A major EU-funded study has found a trend that organic food contains more antioxidants and less fatty acids. In organic cow's milk, for example, it was found that the levels of antioxidants were between 50 and 80 per cent higher than those in normal milk. However, final results of the study are still to be issued. Bad news "Organic food is no better, says minister" -- The Times (Jan 7, 2007) The then UK environment secretary commented that organic food might be no better for people than mass-produced farm food. And the Food Standards Agency said that there was no evidence that organic produce was more nutritious than conventionally produced food. A burning question -- should women go on the wagon while expecting? Good news "A daily tipple is safe for pregnant women" -- Daily Telegraph (Oct 12, 2007) New guidelines in the UK suggest that pregnant women may drink a small glass of wine daily without harming their unborn child. The National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) recommends that women should consume no more than 1.5 units of alcohol a day (approximate equivalent of a 125ml glass of wine) after the first three months of pregnancy. Bad news "Pregnant women told to keep off alcohol" -- Daily Telegraph (Oct 29, 2007) Just a couple of weeks later, the advice has changed again. A leading medical expert comes out against NICE's advice that a small glass of wine a day is fine for pregnant women. Vivienne Nathanson of the British Medical Association quotes research that shows drinking just two glasses of wine a week may delay the development of the foetal nervous system. "Evidence is continuing to emerge on the possible risks of pre-natal alcohol exposure at even low to moderate levels," she says. Ireland's Chief Medical Officer, Dr James Kiely, has recommended that pregnant women drink no alcohol. Is it a healthier way of eating or are non meat-eaters missing out? Good news "Put down the bacon! Report emphasises cancer -- fat links" -- USA Today (Nov 1, 2007) Veggies can rest easy that their decision to forego red meat is doing them good. A widely reported health story said that millions of people are at risk of getting cancer unless they lose weight, cut back on alcohol and limit the amount of red meat they eat. The World Cancer Research Fund's study recommended that people should avoid all processed meats such as bacon, ham, salami and some sausages. It advised eating only 500 grams of red meat a week. However, the Irish Independent reported that food safety authorities here were taking a softer line -- encouraging consumers to eat processed meats 'sparingly' rather than cutting them out of their diets altogether. Bad news "Vegetarian diet is nuts: study" -- The Age, Australia (Oct 28, 2007) While many veggies claim that their diet is healthier, some studies take issue with this assertion. According to research at the University of Adelaide, substituting foods such as nuts and seeds for a meat-based diet can lead to a serious shortfall in essential nutrients. The study found that a diet with plant alternatives could provide the same amount of protein as a meat-based diet but it didn't provide the recommended dietary intake of vitamin B12 and omega-3 fatty acids. In addition, it left men deficient in zinc and women lacking in iron. Just how essential is this vitamin to our health and well being? Good news "The virtues of Vitamin D: It's time we saw the light" -- London Independent (Sept 18, 2007) A major review of the role Vitamin D plays in health found that people who took supplements of the vitamin for six years reduced their risk of dying from all causes. This followed earlier studies that showed the vitamin had a key role in protecting against cancer, heart disease and diabetes. The review of 18 medical trials found that people who took vitamin D supplements had a seven per cent lower risk of death during the six-year period of the study. Bad news "Vitamin D downgrade as scientists advise there is no real proof it fights cancer" -- Daily Mail (Oct 31, 2007) The argument is made that the cancer fighting benefits of vitamin D may have been overstated. A study carried out by the National Cancer Institute in Maryland looked at the relationship between measured vitamin D in the blood and subsequent cancer deaths in a population. The results showed that people with high levels of the vitamin were no less likely to die of cancer than others. The only exception to this was in bowel cancer -- people with the highest vitamin D levels were actually 72pc less likely to die of this type of cancer than were people with the lowest levels. If scientific researchers can't agree on the best practice to adopt or which food to consume, where does that leave the baffled individual? Dietician Sarah Keogh says that the background of research studies needs to be made clearer to the general public. "Often, a small study will show unusual results and that's then picked up by the media because it has a dramatic storyline," she says. "But small studies may only be based on a short timeframe and involve a few people. The best research comes from long-term studies that include lots of people." She says people should generally stick to the healthy eating guidelines and lifestyle advice that have been tried and tested over the years. "We know that we shouldn't overdo alcohol and that we should eat lots of fruit and vegetables. Studies usually reinforce these healthy living guidelines." 
