food reviews
{ Áilín Quinlan 
    February 08 2014 08:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/childhood-obesity-the-outlook-is-frightening-29991565.html }
Would you want your child to develop high cholesterol, a fatty liver, high blood pressure, diabetes or even the first signs of heart disease or cancer? Of course not. And to be forced to watch your child endure back pain, leg pain, inability to run and low self-esteem would surely break your heart. But the growing childhood obesity crisis in this country – one in four primary school-children are now overweight or obese – means more and more children are facing serious and even potentially life-threatening health problems. "When we do blood tests on (the children) the results are terrifying," says Dr Sinead Murphy, Consultant Paediatrician at the W82GO programme, a 12-month family-based obesity treatment programme for children and teenagers, which has been running for the past six years at Temple Street Children's University Hospital. "About 40pc would have high insulin levels, which means they're heading for Type Two Diabetes as young as 10-and-a-half. "A lot of our children have high cholesterol and abnormal liver function because of having a fatty liver caused by obesity." Many, she adds, also show low levels of Vitamin D – "because children who are overweight require more Vitamin D and take less. Many do not expose themselves to the sun because they are too self-conscious." About 40pc, says Murphy, display psycho-social problems such as lack of self-esteem. The statistics are indeed chilling – in a report last year, the W82GO team reported 40pc of the children referred to the programme had risk factors for heart disease (for example, high cholesterol), 30pc had physical problems including knee pain and breathlessness when walking. About 60pc reported psychological difficulties including poor self-esteem and depression, and 11pc reported severe bullying. Over at the Child Weight Management Service at Our Lady's Children's Hospital Crumlin, Paediatric Endocrinologist Dr Declan Cody has been reviewing two years' worth of test results and statistics. 'A very significant number of our obese older children and teenagers are showing signs of high cholesterol and fatty infiltration of the liver, which causes inflammation of the liver and heightens the risk of cirrhosis," he says. High blood pressure and signs of pre-diabetes – insulin resistance, which results in pre-diabetes and eventual Type Two Diabetes – is also evident, as are signs of early cardiovascular disease. "Is this the generation which will die before their parents because of their weight?" he asks. Not only, says Cody, does obesity bring psycho-social problems – bullying and self-esteem issues – but young girls are showing evidence of polycystic ovaries, which can be linked back to obesity. And there's more. "We also believe that there's increasing evidence to show that obesity is causing changes in the immune cells and that these changes are pre-disposing them to cancer in later life." A standardised weight/height measurement test at specific ages such as nine to 12 months or on school entry could help to pick up problems early, he believes, adding that the Government should stand up to the sugar industry in the way it stood up to the tobacco sector and impose a sugar tax in a bid to discourage the availability of cheap sugar. One of the most important factors in changing a family's poor eating habits is to highlight the damage it's doing to their children, and educate them about the alternative, says Murphy. "This is not about blaming parents, because none of it's deliberate; many parents don't realise the damage being done by this easily available nutrition," she explains. Cody sees children as young as three and four "coming in with BMIs of over 30". "You could have a three-year-old weighing 29 or 30 kilos, which is about four stone – and which should be the average weight of a 10-year-old. The average weight of a three-year-old should be around 14 kilos or about two stone," he explains. "We'd have teenagers coming to see us at age 13, 14 and 15 whose weight would be up to 150 kilos and 23 stone-plus," – yet, he points out, the average weight of a full-grown Irish male is about 70 kilos. "In the last 30 years there has been an absolute rise in obesity. The prevalence of obese children in the population has doubled or trebled; in the period between the 70s and the late 90s it went skyward. If a quarter of children at four years of age are overweight or obese starting school, you're already losing the fight." The problem is sometimes a lack of awareness, he warns. "Some parents of overweight children actually don't see them as overweight or obese. They don't recognise it," he observes. Funding from the HSE means that the W82Go clinic will soon be brought out into the community, says Murphy, and she hopes to get the message out to families that the slide into childhood obesity can be stopped by adopting a healthy diet. "It's very important to try and prevent this from becoming normalised," she says. "It's a highly complex problem but if you want to take it back to the most simple explanation, it's a combination of an increasingly sedentary lifestyle and the intake of excessive calories by children." Modern children live in a "toxic environment", which constantly pushes the wrong kind of food at them, she believes – too much processed foods, too many sugary cereals, too many treats. "Treats are no longer treats – they're an everyday thing. These children are constantly having treats." So where on a child's daily schedule are these foods being consumed? It can start right away – at breakfast, with the consumption of sugary cereals. However, Murphy says, it can also start with simply skipping a healthy breakfast, which results in hunger and in turn can often make them feel justified in purchasing a large, unhealthy lunch. On top of that, she says, many children are "constantly snacking and grazing on high-sugar treats: highly processed crisps, chocolate bars and fizzy and sports drinks. With some children, the eating is almost constant." The intake of inappropriate foods may continue with the evening meal at home, which can constitute over-large portions or the wrong type of foods such as pizzas or chicken nuggets. "Some children would be having this kind of dinner every single night," she explains. "It can be cheaper and easier to buy the processed food. That sort of unhealthy food is so accessible, so cheap. "Children and teenagers need to be educated to make healthy choices when they go to the shop. We concentrate on educating the families," says Murphy, who says staff even go out on shopping trips with some families as part of the food education process. On other occasions staff show the hidden sugars and fats, even in foods such as breakfast bars. "The perception is that these are a healthy snack and they are shocked by this information. They benefit from it and try to put the healthy options in place. "I think we may have lost our knowledge of food because processed food has become so easy, so available, so cheap and so tasty." However, she says, it's not all about the food. Lack of sleep is another major factor contributing to the relentless march of obesity, she says. "Children are in their bedrooms on social media or watching TV or gaming into the small hours of the morning. "They don't get enough sleep and this has been shown to be linked to childhood obesity. This is the toxic environment – the goodies, the unhealthy main meals, the lack of exercise, the lack of sleep." And just because your child is active doesn't mean you don't have to monitor their diet, she warns. Sixty minutes of activity a day only manages to maintain a healthy body and mind in conjunction with a healthy child-sized diet. The child obesity problem is something that we have seen coming – and we must address it now, she warns. "We cannot wait – if we don't tackle it now the average life expectancy of our children, which had improved so much in recent generations, will fall again because of the preventable complications associated with obesity." Irish Independent 
