food reviews
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    June 11 2015 10:06 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/video-a-great-meal-awaits-the-late-great-paolo-tullios-best-moments-on-the-restaurant-31294665.html }
Following the death of Ireland’s most loved food writer Paolo Tullio, producers of The Restaurant, in which he played a leading role, have released an emotional video montage of the critic’s best moments on the show. In the video, Paolo can be seen taking his familiar spot next to his friend and critic Tom Doorley who sampled the menus of dozens of Ireland’s most well-known faces throughout the years. The montage shows Paolo as he dines with the likes of Gary Rhodes, Clodagh McKenna, and Dylan McGrath as he enjoyed the wonderful dishes that have flown out the iconic kitchen doors throughout the years. “We have lost a great friend this week,” producers of The Restaurant said. “Paolo has been part of our Restaurant family since 2004.” The show was always housed on RTE, but this year moved to TV3 
Close
 / The beloved Irish Independent critic passed away last weekend following a long illness and his death prompted a huge outpouring of grief across the country. "He became more and more mellow as life went on - something which I hope happens us all in life," Tom Doorley said. "He was like a great wine - he just got better and better as time went on. Radio presenter Sean Moncrieff, who hosted Paolo weekly on his Newstalk show, said he and show producer Caroline Clarke were 'devastated' to hear the news. "Caroline Clarke and I are devastated to hear of the death of Paolo Tullio. He was a gentleman, a scholar, a thinker and a cook. He lived well." Fellow food-lover and chef Kevin Dundon wrote online; "Such sad news, just lost a great friend and an amazing foodie." Restaurant and cafe owners who had met the popular critic during their own careers also took to social media site Twitter to pay tribute. "A total gent and extremely supportive to us," Ringsend eaterie Artisan Parlour wrote. One fan wrote; "So sorry to hear Paolo Tullio passed away. A gentleman, a pleasure to deal with and loved watching/listening to him. A treasure." Irish celebrity Amanda Brunker referred to Paolo's work on reality TV show 'The Restaurant' and wrote; "Ahhh sad to hear of Paolo Tullio's passing. He gave me 5 stars on The Restaurant and we stayed friends ever since. Lovely, lovely fun man." Hotelier Eanna Hassett wrote; "So sad to hear of Paolo Tullio passing. A thorough gentleman, our island will be poorer without him." Paolo's funeral service is today in the examination hall in Trinity College at 3pm. Online Editors 
