food reviews
{  
    August 14 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/article34954480.ece }
Right next door to a gem of a café, Meet Me in the Morning, that I reviewed a couple of weeks back, is Sova Vegan Butcher, yet another new place to eat in the vicinity of Camden Street. Bart Sova has popped up in various locations around Dublin over the past couple of years and built up quite a following, but Pleasants Street, named after philanthropist Thomas Pleasants, is the first permanent home for his restaurant. Word has travelled fast. The first person I bump into is a woman with whom I went to school eating with her family. She tells me that both her daughters are vegan, which unleashes in me a torrent of sympathetic feelings that is probably out of all proportion with her situation. And the modest little restaurant is full, with tables turning over as soon as they are vacated. My dinner companion is Keith Bohanna, a vegan and a leading light in Real Bread Ireland with a sensible day job in digital. I know nothing about vegan food, so I thought it prudent to enlist an expert. He offers to pick up the wine, and brings a bottle of South American shiraz from M&S, a retailer that labels all of its wines as to whether they are suitable for vegans and vegetarians. Of course wine is intrinsically vegan, but at the end of the wine-making process there is a practice known as fining which clarifies and stabilises the wine before it is bottled. Bull's blood was the traditional fining agent, but was banned by the EU after the BSE crisis. Other animal-derived products - isinglass (fish bladders), gelatin, casein (milk protein) and albumen (egg whites) - are still used, and winemakers are not obligated to state on their labels whether or not they have used them. Bentonite - a substance derived from clay - is a vegan-friendly alternative. Vegans eschew all animal-derived products, including dairy and honey. In the past, vegan food got a bad rap for over-reliance on flatulence-inducing pulses as a source of protein. During a flirtation with vegetarianism in my teens (I'll take this opportunity to apologise to my poor mother), I ate plenty of TVP (textured vegetable protein) in the form of 'steaks' and 'sausages' that came in a tin submerged in 'gravy'. But that was then, and the 2016 version of vegan food is - thankfully - more appealing in every way: bright and shiny and colourful like the people who eat it, judging by our fellow customers. Some of it even tastes good. There are no figures for the number of vegans in Ireland, but there are 542,000 in the UK - a figure that has increased by 360pc in the last 10 years. Perceived health benefits, along with environmental and animal welfare concerns, are the main influencing factors. At SVB, the set dinner menu offers a choice of three starters, six mains and two desserts. Controversially, according to Keith, much of the food mimics animal protein, and is described accordingly - scallops, steak and duck all feature. We start with 'King Scallops with beurre blanc sauce, dill potato cakes, marinated purple cauliflower, black pudding crisps and kelp caviar'. The plating of the dish is beautiful and modern, with the 'scallops' formed from thick pieces of mushroom - Keith reckons oyster and I think cep. It's an excellent dish in terms of texture and flavour. Truly there is no hardship involved in eating it. Watermelon and courgette tartare with coconut polenta, orange and tarragon balsamic and avocado mousse is less interesting, although again the plating is photogenic. Seitan is a protein derived from wheat gluten, and at SVB it features in a couple of dishes, masquerading as steak and duck. Keith chooses the duck, which comes with blackberry sauce, herbed couscous, and Savoy cabbage rolls stuffed with chestnuts. He says that it is the best thing that he'd eaten in a long time, which makes me feel sorry for him because pleasant though it is, there's no way that it wouldn't have been at least twice as good made with the real thing. In a dish of deep-fried soya schnitzels accompanied by a swirl of duchess potato, wild mushroom ragu, broad beans and tartare sauce, topped with pea shoots, the flavour comes mainly from the mushrooms. Desserts of cheesecake and coconut panna cotta are fine, although the latter evidences insufficient wobble. Our bill comes to €43.80 before service, which has been cheery. The two women at the next table think that the food is wonderful, and I am happy for them and all the other vegans in the city that they have a place to call their own. ON A BUDGET Seaweed chowder with pan-fried samphire and sourdough baguette costs €5.  ON A BLOW OUT The three-course dinner menu is priced at €21.90. As it’s BYOB, the final bill is down to the wine that you choose.  THE HIGH POINT The ‘king scallops’ is a great dish.  THE LOW POINT My low point will be a high point for others: nothing will convince me that meat substitutes are as tasty as meat itself. So in seeking out good eating, SVB is not going to be top of my list. I am delighted that it’s there as an option for those who prefer not to eat meat. The rating 6/10 food 7/10 ambience 7/10 value for money 20/30 
Close
 Lieutenant-Colonel Nathaniel Newnham-Davis / Dorothy Cashman, a historian of culinary texts, drew my attention to an article in History Today about Lieutenant-Colonel Nathaniel Newnham-Davis of the Pall Mall Gazette, London’s top restaurant critic in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Reviewing the Eustace Miles vegetarian restaurant,  Newnham-Davis had mixed feelings about the food. “Some dishes he thought impressive while others, such as the stuffed marrow, were watery and flavourless. None could lure him from the ‘errors of flesh-eating’ and ‘creamy salmon and plump quails’.”  Weekend Magazine 
