food reviews
{  
    March 16 2008 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/restaurant-owners-leave-a-bad-taste-in-your-mouth-26430695.html }
ABELFAST court's decision last week to uphold the right of restaurant reviewers to ply their trade without the risk of libel claims has been greeted with applause by most -- bar those in the restaurant trade. The overturning of a previous decision to award damages of £25,000 against the Irish News for a scathing review of Goodfellas pizzeria, should be seen for what it is -- a triumph of common sense. Caroline Workman, who wrote the review in 2000 criticising the food and drink, the staff and the smoky atmosphere, said: "Nobody likes a bad review, but if I can't write honestly, good reviews are pointless." If a newspaper publishes an untruth, it may have committed the civil wrong of defamation, which protects against injuries to reputation, including one's business reputation. Therefore if a critic were to say something entirely untrue of a restaurant, that could be defamatory. Normally, of course, critics will reveal the facts in part at least in a pedestrian way, though clearly to do so for the whole article would make for a mind-numbing review. Crazy as it may seem therefore, critics offer their opinions and, so long as these opinions are based on fact and are honestly held, such reviewers will have the defence of "fair comment". The importance of the Northern Ireland decision cannot be underestimated as the case potentially points not just to restaurants, but to reviews of theatre, books and films. So who are the victors and the vanquished in all of this? Newspapers are clearly happy with the decision. Free speech may not be so popular now as it once was, but most newspapers still cling to the crazy principle that when you have lost this you might as well become a paper of record. It is the general public however who remain perhaps the biggest winners in all of this. True, there is no substitute for going along to a restaurant to see what you think yourself, but some have constraints which preclude them from trying out every restaurant in the country. They may also even regard the restaurant reviewer's opinion as valuable, considering the amount of years they have been doing same. Of course restaurant owners aren't happy. Everyone else in the world is subject to checks, balances and criticisms in their lives, but when restaurants get unfavourable commentary they tend to regard it as somewhere north of culinary blasphemy. In case you hadn't noticed, chefs are no longer chefs -- and they are certainly not mere cooks. They are troubled artistes. You wouldn't understand, though. How could you? After all, all you do is eat the food and give them your money. This is a moment of art that is entirely subjective and so all criticisms are for nought. Restaurant reviewers such as AA Gill are pounded by owners for their "unfair" attacks. Yet that is to miss the point. As Gill himself points out, he doesn't close down restaurants. Bad food closes down restaurants. Rude service closes down restaurants. All he does is notice it and pass it on. Yet many restaurant owners still seem to believe that in 2008 they have a god-given right not to be criticised, and help for them is never too far away. A US website publication called The Publicity Hound ("tips, tricks and tools for free publicity") runs some handy hints for restaurant owners to offset bad reviews. Firstly, they advise, "if your food was indeed bad and your service sub-standard, write a letter to the editor apologising to patrons. Public apologies often draw sympathy and support". Secondly, they note, "restaurant reviewers have a legal right to comment on whether they like your food". However, if you're not happy, "sometimes all it takes is a sharply worded letter from your lawyer to the editor of the newspaper to force them to agree to run your rebuttal column". Finally they say that you should "remember that little things -- like the condition of your restrooms -- are often mentioned by reviewers. They pay particular attention to bad plumbing, a lack of paper towels and toilet paper, and overall cleanliness". Naughty, naughty reviewers noting those "little" things. Until such time as Chef Patrons and restaurant owners divest themselves of the notion that they are ring-fenced from criticism because of their collective artistic and/or culinary geniuses, they may soon start eating themselves. We should probably leave the last word to Mr Gill which puts the debate into perspective. "If the food is the star of your meal," he is fond of saying, "then you're eating with the wrong people." Quite. John O'Keeffe is dean of the law school at Dublin Business School 
