food reviews
{  
    November 13 2008 02:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/chamber-ceo-calls-for-food-prices-review-26928195.html }
Chamber of Commerce boss Bill Tosh has written to An Tanaiste and Minister for Trade and Enterprise Mary Coughlan asking her to review the price of food in supermarkets in the Irish Republic. The CEO wants a thorough investigation into the costs which determine supermarket prices on a sample food basket, with comparisons between Ireland, the UK and at least one other EU country. He is particularly keen to find out where the added-on costs occur in the chain from farm to check-out. 'Our motivation in asking for this is simple; if basic food consumption prices remain uncompetitive, consumers will vote with their feet and our members and streets will continue to suffer,' he wrote. 'It is especially galling for independent retailers in Dundalk, Letterkenny and all along the border. 'For decades they have exercised vigilance; their prices and service levels are the subject of constant monitoring, they have thrived and remained on High Streets, but with food shopping leaching at current rates, their customers are elsewhere. 'A consequence of this is that town halls are not collecting sufficient quantities of rates and service levels must drop, investment in right-sized premises to regenerate is pretty much non-existent in the current climate.' He hit out at the supermarket chains operating in the Republic for not being competitive enough, describing recent promotions as 'window-dressing' with headline prices staying where they are. 'There is not even the remotest sign that food prices in the Republic's supermarkets will reduce to somewhere near those charged in other EU countries, but particularly in our case those in the UK,' he told the Minister. Referring to an article in the Belfast Telegraph which indicated that food basket prices were 50% lower there than here, he said that 'price taking at such differentials is now not only injurious to the health of retail in border counties, but signals what can only be described as catastrophic failure within this entire market to compete effectively.' 
