food reviews
{ Pat  Boyle 
    April 17 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/say-cheese-if-you-want-a-taste-of-the-big-time-26437851.html }
FRESH from delivering a terrific set of annual results, Dairygold chief executive Jerry Henchy can feel justified in his decision to offload the group's consumer foods business to Kerry Group -- even though the deal has yet to be cleared by the Competition Authority. Pointing to the five-year financial summary, he details how successive years of mounting losses only evaporated when the consumer foods business was hived off to a separate vehicle in 2006, leaving the rest of the company to find its feet and thrive -- as it has certainly done in the past year. The jump in profits is not just down to the removal of the consumer foods yoke. Henchy attributes much of the improvement to the huge uplift on world dairy markets. Following years of tight margins, dairy producers last year stumbled onto rich pastures. Dairy farmers saw a gallon of milk shoot up from the low 20s to over 40c, while manufacturers and ingredient suppliers like Dairygold also benefited. The jump in prices was accompanied by the dismantling of the EU support system. As Henchy explains, the EU decision to scrap the export refund scheme for butter was something of an inevitability once it had made the decision to wind down the agriculture budget. Opportunity "When prices went so high they saw a wonderful opportunity to pull out the supports. And now that milk output has grown by 2pc since then, there is no way back. The absence of a decent profit margin on butter led Dairygold to focus much of its attention on the more valuable cheese market. "Cheese has always stood on its own two feet," he says, while admitting that some sectors of the market, like cheddar, have become commodified by over-production. But even so, Henchy has seen and developed valuable niche markets. One of its most recent successes has come in the Spanish market, one which has traditionally suffered from a shortage of dairy products, which in turn left the market under-developed. That is all changing now however and there is growing demand for dairy-based food items. Yogurt consumption has shot up, absorbing much of Spain's milk output in the process. This has left valuable opportunities in the cheese market which Dairygold is now exploiting, with the help of what he describes as "a very capable small sales team". This may be a small percentage of the overall pie, but is symptomatic of what is going on at the company. Other moves have come in China, where Dairygold is now supplying makers of infant formulae. The Chinese, he says, are building their own brands in this market -- also served by the top-line international brands -- with consumers quite willing to pay western prices for the product. The fact that they are willing to pay top prices means the business is profitable, but quite apart from this, the huge growth in China ensures its attractiveness. He sees his business as one which delivers "ingredients that deliver texture as well as flavour" with unique solutions to old problems. "We have one product that delivers a pumpable cheese ingredient which manufacturers love. It saves grating and is much more user-friendly from a food safety point." This product was developed at its UK Dan Dairies' R&D facility, one which complements the new facility developed at home as part of a major ongoing investment programme. This started last year when it laid out a €100m investment plan to take the business up to 2010. Henchy takes some care to point out that some €18m of this came from state coffers. Steps already taken include the consolidation of the Mallow plant into the Mitchelstown facility. "We had too many plants," Henchy says, explaining that among the issues which had to be considered was the hiring of the right calibre of post graduate researcher. "You cannot hire these people and scatter them around various sites," he says, adding that it has developed a state-of-the- art R&D site in Mitchelstown, a facility scheduled for its official opening this summer. It is clear that with the departure of the branded portfolio, the group's R&D capability now assumes huge importance. Dairygold may have disengaged from the consumer foods business on one level, but as a supplier to food processors it has to have a finger on the pulse. Dairygold, he says, has to develop a relationship with its customers and to deliver solutions as part of that relationship -- the client knows for instance that when it comes to reviewing a particular product in three, four, or five years, Dairygold will be there to play its part. The ongoing relationship, he says, centres on "what is the next product going to be and being there to become part of the solution. "You have to be customer aware, you have to be out there," he says. It marks a step away from the old relationship between a consumer food producer on the one hand and the retailer on the other. Here it was not the consumer but largely the retailer which defined what its consumer products business made and how it was sold. "As a consumer foods group you are not selling to millions of consumers, either here or in Britain. Consumer foods involves selling to four large retailers and they are your customers. One overriding reason for the deal is scale. "You have to remember the Irish market is roughly the size of greater Birmingham. For us to compete on, say, the own-brand label first we have to have our production costs in line with those of a UK-based supplier. The sale of the consumer foods business, he says, should help Kerry to reduce its operating costs and help it compete with the big players in that business. For Dairygold and others however, he is adamant that unless you can cut costs to suit the UK, then as a consumers food producer you will struggle. "You will not be strong enough to survive, to carve out a niche the consumer foods business." 
