food reviews
{ Leonard Doyle in Washington 
    June 15 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/incoming/incoming_dailyfeed/sickening-new-movie-slaughters-us-food-industry-26543748.html }
For millions of Americans, a trip to the cinema involves loading up with popcorn and super-sized drinks before the show. But when the much-anticipated documentary 'Food, Inc.' opens this week, many may find themselves losing their appetite because the film exposes some unsavoury realities about how food reaches the dinner table. Major food producers would not agree to be interviewed for the movie and they tried to ban the filmmakers from their stockyards, pig farms and chicken barns. But the producers fought off lawsuits, grabbing headlines and impressive reviews. The documentary claims cows are fattened up on heavily subsidised corn, even though they cannot digest the grain properly and their guts become breeding grounds for deadly E.coli as a result. It also says chickens with oversized breasts are grown to maturity and are ready to be slaughtered twice as quickly as they would be naturally, thanks to chemicals in their feed. There is also stomach-churning footage of conveyer belts packed with yellow chicks being pushed around like mechanical parts; a cow, barely alive, being dragged around by a forklift; and herds of squealing pigs being forced on to a factory "kill floor".  Celebrities have lined up to endorse the film. Lifestyle guru Martha Stewart has been writing about it on Twitter: "See the film then tell me organic is too expensive for you and your family. It is so upsetting that good food is hard to find." 'Food, Inc.' is being released at a time the US is finally starting to wake up to the public health crisis -- including obesity and diabetes -- fuelled by its eating habits and the food industry. Organic food stores are booming in affluent urban neighbourhoods and even some mainstream supermarkets are responding to demands for healthier food. But America remains far behind Europe in terms of regulation of the food industry and consumer demand for organic produce. Eric Schlosser, the author of 'Fast Food Nation' and one of the driving forces behind the movie, said: "There is this deliberate veil, this curtain that's drawn between us and where our food is coming from. "The industry doesn't want you to know the truth about what you're eating because if you knew, you might not want to eat it." (©Daily Telegraph, London) 
