food reviews
{  
    December 21 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/business/food-family-holds-annual-meeting-38790454.html }
Food producers from around the county have gathered at the Brandon House Hotel to discuss ways in which to grow the local food industry in 2020. With 43 producers the Wexford Food Family continues to grow and this was an opportunity for each of these small businesses to network with their colleagues, discuss a successful 2019 and exchange ideas ahead of what promises to be another busy year.  Reflecting on the past 12 months and the various group networking meetings which included a market study trip to the Boyne Valley, product photography sessions, social media video workshops, the South East Food Summit, the Eat Wexford Guide, and the Official Supporters Programme which acknowledges shops, restaurants and hotels that source their food from local suppliers. The group also reviewed their new website - www.wexfordfoodfamily.com. which has been funded by Local Enterprise Office Wexford and built by Blackstairs Web Design, the site is aimed at helping producers to sell their products to retailers and food service businesses wherever they are based. The meeting thanked the Local Enterprise Office for their support throughout the year and is looking forward to working with them over the coming years. The new Food Family committee for 2020 was also announced and it comprises of: Andrea Molloy, Cleverman Beer - Chairwoman. Catherine George, Fancy Fungi - Vice Chair. Tom Sinnott, Wexford Home Preserves - Ex Officio. Anthony O'Toole, chef - Treasurer.  Trudie Power, Trudie's Kitchen. Liam Byrne, Macamore Buffalo. Mary Regan, Regan Organic Farm. John Walsh, Irish Country Meats. Discussing the forthcoming and importance of the Food Family to its members, new Chairwoman Andrea Molloy said,  'The Wexford Food Family is a very effective network that benefits its members hugely in very practical ways.  'We are looking forward to working together to build it further in 2020 and having a positive impact on our county's economy in terms of job and revenue growth.' Anyone interested in becoming a member of Wexford Food Family should visit the group's website - www.wexfordfoodfamily.com for an application form. Wexford People 
