food reviews
{ Michael Fortune 
    December 16 2014 11:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/greyhounds/igb-to-take-control-of-catering-role-at-tracks-30843536.html }
The Irish Greyhound Board has confirmed their highly significant decision to take control of all food and beverage operations at its network of stadia from early next year.  In the past the catering contracts were held by private companies and the operation had run smoothly for many years with Irish greyhound stadia being renowned for the high quality of catering provided in its restaurants. Many thousands of racegoers enjoy the dining experience each year at venues such as Shelbourne Park, Harold's Cross, Curraheen Park, Galway, Tralee, Limerick, etc. Indeed, the current Christmas trade has been one of the best ever at the stadia. However, from early 2015, Abargrove Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the IGB, will take control of all the catering operations. Geraldine Larkin, CEO of the Irish Greyhound Board, yesterday said: "The food and beverage offering at all our venues is a critical component of the Night at the Dogs experience for our visiting patrons. It is a key element to the successful promotion of the business and the greyhound industry generally. The greater control of the operation will allow IGB much improved business development flexibility." The new arrangement should increase the financial contribution to IGB under the food and beverage heading as well as stimulating the cash flow effect from that service. Under transfer of undertaking law, full and part-time catering staff will be transferred to Abargrove. The IGB yesterday also announced a Review into Anti-Doping and Medication Control which will allow them to consider modifications to legislation, practices and policies; assess whether any improvements can be made to the current structures that are in place and ensure that the IGB is at the forefront of the industry, in line with the best international standards. The IGB has commissioned leading international veterinary surgeon, Professor Tim Morris, to lead the Review. He is currently independent scientific adviser to the Greyhound Board of Great Britain on Anti-doping and Medication and recently published a review article on medication and doping control - 'Forensic Aspects of Horseracing' - in the internationally recognised Wiley Encyclopaedia of Forensic Science. Geraldine Larkin said: "The Review demonstrates IGB's commitment to achieving greater transparency in racing and in the protection and promotion of animal welfare. "We strive to align the domestic regulatory system with international best practice to ensure that greyhound racing remains a clean sport, and we look forward to seeing the recommendations that will result from the Review." Indo Sport 
