food reviews
{ Paul Deering 
    August 18 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/anthony-turned-a-negative-into-a-positive-36031446.html }
He's been on radio stations and newspapers around the globe following his witty response to an Australian customer who called his integrity into question on a TripAdvisor review but restaurateur Anthony Gray has come out of the episode all smiles following a witty response. An Australian called Graham had recently visited Anthony's restaurant, Eala Bhán on Rockwood Parade but left his windbreaker and a pair of glasses behind. He became irate when it wasn't sent on to him quickly enough and took to TripAdvisor to say that while the food was good at the restaurant, he called into question the integrity of Mr Gray over the fact he was waiting on his jacket. The jacket is now on its way to Australia, Anthony told The Sligo Champion and not only that, but the Sligoman has paid for the €18 cost and has extended an open invitation to the Australian tourist to return some day when he'll treat him to an overnight and another meal. It was Anthony's witty response to the review that has got everyone talking and as far as he is concerned, all publicity is good publicity and he saw it as yet another chance to plug his beloved Sligo. "When I wrote the reply I was hoping someone might pick up  on it all right and there was obviously a bit of method to my madness but I never thought it would global like it has. "I was upset at him calling my integrity into question and I was always going to respond. I mean what he said was just rubbish, I hadn't even met him and I didn't even know him so it was very unfair of him to say what he said," said Anthony. The story has been picked up all across Australia and Anthony has been interviewed by the Australian Daily Mail and several Irish national newspapers and radio stations including 2FM. "Look, it's all good for Sligo as far as I'm concerned. As everyone knows I'm not slow in promoting the county and I see this as an excellent opportunity to generate as much positive publicity as I can," he said. He's also been getting plenty of calls and emails of support.  People have emailed him from New York, Canada, Australia and the US.  "It was just mad there for a couple of days and it's slowing down now a bit. It's all good and if it attracts more people to the county then it has been worth it," said Anthony. Latest tourism figures show a rise in North American visitors to the country but a significant drop from those living in Britain as Brexit fears heighten. "Brexit is a factor and we need as much positivity as we can get. I'll always encourage people to come to Sligo and I saw the TripAdvisor review as an opportunity to turn a negative into a positive with the hope of creating good publicity for Sligo as well.  "My response was a bit of craic and was tongue in cheek and I just fired it back. It wasn't a bad review by Graham, he gave us a three star rating but he called my integrity into question so I decided to turn it around on its head and I'm quite happy I achieved this," said Anthony, who also owns Tra Bhán restaurant in Strandhill.  Graham, from Sydney wrote in his review: "My wife and i were visiting Sligo from Australia & Restaurant Eala Bhán was recommended to us for evening Dining. Based on that recommendation, we decided to Dine there on the only evening we were staying in Sligo.  "The food was quite reasonable, however we were extremely disappointed to find that the operator lacked integrity. This comment is based on the fact that I accidentally left my Wind Breaker with Eye glasses in pocket.  "We only discovered this when we arrived at our next destination, so rang and spoke to the Restaurant Manager (Anthony Gray) who confirmed that the jacket was with them. Based on his agreement to forward the jacket to me, I e-mailed details of my credit card to cover all costs to return the garment to me.  "When it did not arrive within a week or so, I re-emailed twice with no response. My wife and I have since returned to Australia, short of one jacket and one pair of glasses. Bottom line is, food might be OK but integrity is seriously lacking." And, Anthony's celebrated reply was: "We are delighted you enjoyed your meal at multi award winning restaurant here in Sligo serving the finest local sourced ingredients on the very edge of the beautiful Wild Atlantic Way! "I apologise that you forgot your jacket and glasses while dining with us. I apologise that I had not immediately sent your belongings back to Australia. I should have done a Joe ninety on it and hot tailed it up to the local post office and made your jacket a priority but unfortunately these things don't always happen the way you may have planed.  "I mean I'm only trying to run two restaurants in the middle of summer while my manager whom I'm delighted to say is 6 months pregnant but unfortunately is suffering God bless her wee soul and out of work resting - which I insisted on!!! "Having 3 children myself under the age of 10 running around the house like gladiators and tearing to pieces while not going to bed on time, rising like ninjas at dawn, I am what you might say just a little tired and a tad busy.  "I should have pushed this way up my priority list but forgot and while all of this is going on I'm very busy busting a gut here and in the UK promoting my beloved Sligo. Why do I do this?  "I love my town, I love its people, I love every tourist that graces this beautiful part of the world and provides me and my staff with a living. "People make mistakes and forget things just like you did with your possessions. But to come on TripAdvisor and review me about my lack of postal skills honesty and integrity beggars belief considering I never laid my mince pies eyes on you! I mean you are butchering my name insofar as my forgetfulness yet it was your forgetfulness that has us here!!!! POT KETTLE BLACK!! "Your possessions are en route you will be glad to know!!! And as far as my honesty is concerned I'm not even going to charge your credit card for the post. Furthermore the next time you visit the beautiful Emerald Isle and my County I'll bring you shopping locally for a new Wind breaker. As far I see it's a bit of a crime against fashion." Sligo Champion 
