food reviews
{ Lisa Jewell 
    January 18 2010 04:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/real-life-get-well-sooner-26623907.html }
MOST of us have experienced a stay in hospital at some point during our lives and have therefore also had the experience of eating hospital food. And for some people, their experience was far from good. In the most recent Rate My Hospital patient survey (published in September), 20 of the country's 68 public and private hospitals scored fewer than three out of five stars in terms of food quality and service. Comments ranged from: "Oh dear, the food was dreadful, dreadful. It made me retch," to "Pity about the food and presentation -- cold toast, tea cold and made for hours." But the same survey also showed some positive comments, which begs the questions: why does the quality of food vary so much from hospital to hospital? And what is being done to improve both the food and the nutritional outcome for patients? One hospital that seems to be bucking the trend in terms of delivering well-received food is St Luke's Hospital in Rathgar, Dublin. It consistently does well in Rate My Hospital surveys and this year it came second and was the only public hospital to feature in the top 10. They offered us a unique glimpse behind the scenes to see how their system works. The food itself is made from scratch in the kitchen and is then transported to the wards to be plated and served to the patients. Catering manager Teresa Pearce explains: "The ward orderly is supervised by her manager or a nurse to ensure that the patient gets the right food and the right amount. The food is plated up fresh so the patient can ask for a little bit more or a little less."  Nutrients Having this cook-serve method means that the catering department has more choice in what meals it can prepare. A lot of hospitals use is the cook-chill system, which works well for bulk meals but has some restrictions in terms of what foods will work for heating up at a later stage. "We are able to change our menu around and incorporate foods like pastas, salads, roast dishes," says Teresa. "We make up soup every day from scratch. Packets of soup might be handy but with our soup, we can chuck in loads of vegetables with their nutrients and it tastes so much better." The patients at St Luke's are given a choice of meals and can ask for alterations to be made. Dietetic manager Eimear Finn says the responsiveness of the catering department is crucial in providing food that the patient needs and wants. "The last special diet I remember is a lady who had coeliac disease. She had brought in her own bread -- she was probably used to doing that but we could have sourced gluten-free bread for her. "Instead of her getting the same type of food every day, we sat down with her and went through her favourite foods. Then we talked to catering and they were able to come up with different meals for her for the next two weeks, which is how long she was staying for radiotherapy treatment." St Luke's has 179 beds in total so it is on the smaller scale when compared with the large acute hospitals. These hospitals might argue that it's easier for a smaller establishment to cater hospital food. "You'll hear that said," the director of operational services at St Luke's, Richard Lodge, says, "but there's nothing in a large hospital to stop the dieticians talking to the catering staff and the nursing staff. Do we provide better food and get a better response from our patients because we're a smaller hospital? No. It's possible to do it in whatever size the establishment." "It's about the joined-up approach between all the different departments." Teresa agrees.  Tasty "I came from a large hospital to here and the dynamics are the very same. The numbers that you cater for are relative to the number of staff you have in the kitchen so, in that regard, it's very similar." But the hospital isn't resting on its laurels. It is currently reviewing its food service and is incorporating recommendations contained in the recently issued Guidelines for Preventing Under-Nutrition in Acute Hospitals from the Department of Health. They also use feedback from its patient forum. Richard explains: "One of the things that came up in that group was about the presentation of food. Some patients in the hospital liked to see a big round plate of food whereas other people would look at a plate like that and think: 'I don't think I can get through all of that." "So we've ended up with two different plates -- one round and one oval -- because presentation of food can make such a difference to someone being able to eat it. There's no point having nutritious, tasty food if someone isn't encouraged to eat it." "It's not just about one department -- it's about everyone working together," Eimear says. "We take patient feedback seriously and it is about the patient at the end of the day and making sure they are getting the right food and are happy with what they're eating." Unfortunately not every hospital gets the glowing recommendations about its food that St Luke's regularly does. Chef and food writer Clodagh McKenna had a particularly bad experience four years ago and it still remains a source of frustration for her. "I stayed in one of the bigger hospitals for a month and I thought the food was disgraceful," she says. "It was overcooked, wasn't seasoned and was lacking in fruit and vegetables. I don't remember being offered any choice -- there were things being put in front of me like heated-up canned broth. "There was a girl opposite me who had cancer and I really thought that the food she was being given wasn't doing much for her and also wasn't good for her psychologically. I don't mean to sound New Age about this but when you're in hospital recovering from an illness or surgery, your spirit is very important. You want to be able to eat foods that are a comfort to you."  Eating Clodagh says she was lucky that her parents brought in food for her every day because she couldn't stand eating the hospital food. "When I left hospital, I thought I'd do my damnedest to change things. I wrote to the Department of Health to offer my help with perhaps setting up a pilot scheme in one hospital to change things around, but I never got a response." It's worth bearing in mind though that not all concerns about hospital food have to do with its quality. The Irish Patients' Association says that many of the comments it receives about hospital food have to do with serving it. "We get comments from patients and their relatives about food being plonked down in front of them for 20 minutes and the patient having difficulty feeding themselves or the food being placed out of reach," says Stephen McMahon, chairman of the association. "It's really something that has to be monitored by the nursing staff. It's part of the care and treatment of patients. It is also important to get input from the patient or their family about the food because they could have an aversion to certain kinds of food and they don't feel empowered to be able to give that information to the staff. "If patients are eating well, they're going to be able to recover more quickly. And that's ultimately going to save the health service money," Mr McMahon. An extensive study in the US showed that patients receiving early nutrition intervention had a shorter length of stay (by 2.1 days on average), leading to a direct saving of $697 (€480) per bed, per day. With this being the case, surely it would make financial sense for improvements to be made in the quality and delivery of Irish hospital food?  Services However, the reality is that when hospital budgets have to be trimmed and priorities have to be made, catering services can often be the first area to face the chop. Sarah Keogh, consultant dietician at the Albany Clinic and a contributor to the recently published Department of Health nutritional guidelines, says: "Often catering is not seen as a priority area in hospitals and I can understand that if there's a situation such as diagnostic machines being badly needed. "But we need to have good food in order to be healthy and this is particularly important for someone who is malnourished going into hospital. "A young healthy guy who is in hospital for a couple of days will get by fine on the food but for someone who is coming in underweight, it's vital that they get the right nourishment from their food." Sarah says that when it comes to hospital food, the finger of blame shouldn't be routinely aimed at the catering staff. "One of the things in the report that wasn't really picked up on is the fact that hospital food is about the whole of the hospital -- not just what's coming out of catering. You could have a situation on a ward where someone needs help with feeding and perhaps there's a failure to deliver that. "I'd really hate to think that the criticism is being levelled at catering -- they're not the baddies. It's really about the relationship between a few groups -- catering, nurses and dieticians." One of the major points arising from the recent nutritional guidelines is that up to 11pc of patients admitted to hospitals in Ireland are malnourished. It's also noteworthy that during their stay, close to a third of patients show a nutritional decline. "Lots of studies show that patients who are malnourished take longer to heal," says Sarah. "Getting the right nutrition is also really important for people recovering from surgery as their metabolism goes up and they need more calories. "People are surprised by the fact that the healthy eating guidelines don't exactly apply to patients. They generally need to have more fat and more calories in their diet. Obviously there are exceptions such as patients with cardiac concerns." To its credit, the Department of Health has taken fresh steps with its recent guidelines and is now working on nutrition guidelines for children's hospitals and long-stay institutions. But while the newest nutritional guidelines have now been sent out to hospitals, it's unclear how they will be enforced or audited. The HSE responds that it is "fully committed to nutritional assessment and improvement across the hospital framework. "The process involves engaging with the acute hospitals and setting in place an operational framework which can best oversee the implementation of the guidelines." Irish Independent 
