food reviews
{  
    June 13 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/greenhills-hopeful-that-good-work-will-bring-the-green-flag-27099881.html }
Following the success of neighbouring St Josephs CBS in the European wide Green Schools Environmental Management Programme, Our Ladys College decided not to be outdone and registered for the initiative a couple of months ago.Work commenced on the Seven Step Programme immediately following registration with a full environmental review undertaken by the committee so Following the success of neighbouring St Joseph’s CBS in the European wide Green Schools Environmental Management Programme, Our Lady’s College decided not to be outdone and registered for the initiative a couple of months ago. Work commenced on the Seven Step Programme immediately following registration with a full environmental review undertaken by the committee so that actions could be agreed for improved environmental management. For the first two years of the programme the emphasis is on litter and waste management so the environmental review focused primarily on these issues. The overall result of the review was that the school requested a morning workshop that would deal with these issues in an interactive way to help the pupils agree a work programme that would bring about the necessary environmental improvements to qualify for the prestigious Green Flag. Recently the girls of Our Lady’s College Greenhills went green with a morning of waste and litter awareness talks, demonstrations and activities. The event, organised by the Green Schools Committee and spearheaded by two of the schools teachers, Elaine Mills and Jim Walsh, kicked off with a composting demonstration by Sarah Fields of the Irish Wildlife Trust who captivated the girls with a real life demonstration of the bugs used to create compost from ordinary household waste. Real-life compost produced from ordinary fruit and vegetable peelings, garden waste and even tumble dryer fluff was displayed, capturing the imagination of all. Litter was next on the agenda with a very informative and motivational talk from Mary Murtagh, Senior Executive Officer, in the Environment Section of Louth County Council and Gerry O’Connor, Litter Warden with Drogheda Borough Council. The provisions of the new draft Litter Management Plan were discussed, including the implications for minors, who can now be fined under the new plan. he girls of Our Lady’s College, Greenhills, were then duly presented with litter pickers and bibs for their recently formed litter patrol team to further their commitment to making Our Lady’s College, Greenhills, a ‘litter-free’ school. Actions for improved litter management in the school were agreed and are in the process of being implemented. Waste management was the focus of a talk given by Aisling Sheridan, Environmental Awareness Officer with Louth County Council who discussed the development of a waste management plan for the school. Food waste has been identified as a priority waste and the staff and students of Our Lady’s College, Greenhills, are committed to dealing with their food waste stream. In order to support this initiative and encourage the schools drive towards a Green Flag, Louth County Council presented the school with a food digester. Use of this digester will make sure that the school can deal with all its food waste in an environmentally friendly way and produces good quality compost in only eight weeks. Neighbouring school, St Joseph’s CBS, who were awarded their Green Flag last year, were also presented with a food digester on the day, as they continue to strive towards environmental excellence in their school. Diverting food waste away from landfill not only minimises the environmental impact on landfill sites but also conserves the peat bogs in this country through the production of good quality compost. Well done to the staff and students of Our Lady’s College, Greenhills and St Joseph’s CBS. St Joseph’s have as a result of their participation in Green Schools significantly reduced waste to landfill in their school. With the many actions agreed by the girls in Our Lady’s College it is evident that similar reductions and improved waste management system will be recorded here. With enthusiasm like this it is only a matter of time before Drogheda has another ‘Green Flag’ flying over the Boyne! 
