food reviews
{ Patricia Murphy 
    November 06 2014 09:08 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/technology/web-summit/my-day-spent-at-the-food-summit-30723136.html }
Most guests at this year’s Web Summit had their eyes on the main stage but a golden ticket to the conference also meant an opportunity to visit the much boasted about Food Summit. Upon arrival a beeline was made towards Herbert Park where an array of marquees packed with Good Food Ireland members were pitched upon the grass. 
Close
 / Clamouring to the Food Summit’s stage and passing through a mock butcher (sharp knifes hanging upon the wall), well-read foodies gazed up to the stage in awe of Tom Parker Bowles chattering with the Financial Times’ Rowley Leigh. Aspiring food critics picked up important tips from the pair. Banning the word ‘delicious’, for instance is a high priority and remembering that reviewing a restaurant is about the experience in its entirety not solely just the food on the plate. A rumour that Princess Beatrice had accompanied Tom to Good Food Ireland’s display proved to be of merit, but the royal was not spotted taking notes on the dos and don’ts of critiquing eateries with the rest of us. Food TV enthusiasts were well catered for as Adam Richman of Man vs Food fame arrived on stage, gushing about his career as a food celebrity and the doors such a programme has opened for him. Later, independent.ie coaxed him onto our Summit Newsroom’s couch for a natter about his year spent in Ireland and his recent visit to Michelin Bib Gourmand credited Pig’s Ear. 
Close
 Adam Richman of Man vs Food fame spoke at this week's Food Summit / Soaking up all that information was enough to work up an appetite and so we skipped over to the lunch queue where almost 15000 others would line up throughout the afternoon. Grabbing handfuls of Declan Ryan’s warm Arbutus Bread (apparently a favourite of Eva Longoria who visited the conference earlier in the week) we lined up in the queue specifically for the carnivores. Our plate was packed with sweet tomato relish from G’s Jams in Co. Laois and cooked ham from McCarthy’s butchers in the rebel county’s Kanturk. Farmhouse cheese Milleens was a favourite, squished upon the many chunks of the aforementioned crispy bread. A traditional Irish beef casserole also picked up with our food ticket, was scooped up too with delight before hitting the dessert table, shoving handfuls of gorgeous handmade chocolates into our bags without shame. Those who can’t find the time to trot over the Food Summit (as it is a 15 minute walk from the Web Summit’s hub), can still adequately fill the void. 
Close
 / A flat white from 3fe can be collected at the AIB Backing Brave stand and if you’re a hungry journalist who can’t be torn away from the press room, twin brothers from The Happy Pear in Wicklow are providing tea, coffee and scrummy healthy bites to ease the stress. The Web Summit may be jammed with the international superstars of tech, but the Food Summit shines with all of the love thrown into Irish food. I came home feeling full of pride for the wonderful Irish chefs and producers who are doing so much for our food reputation internationally. Online Editors 
