food reviews
{  
    January 18 2009 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/just-desserts-are-now-on-menu-for-poor-restaurants-26506563.html }
RICHARD CORRIGAN: Will Bentley's in St Stephen's Green, above, owned by the 'loudly self-promoting' chef-proprietor, left, recently voted Irish Chef of the Year, survive the downturn? Richard Corrigan has been awarded the honour of being "Irish Chef of the Year" in a process run by his peers. Because he's "timely, after accusations of over-hyping and over-pricing" in Dublin. And he's "not (merely) a consultant" (unlike his two London-based contemporaries, Gary Rhodes and Gordon Ramsay, both of whom have restaurants in Ireland with their names attached). Corrigan, apparently, is a "committed proprietor/executive" and spends considerable time in his kitchen, where the ethos is "ingredient-led and value-driven". And that's because his ethos derives from the qualities of hospitality and produce for which Ireland is famous. So he got the award even though his main base is in London. Begob! Richard Corrigan was born in Meath 45 years ago, and learned to love food because he hunted it, shot it, caught it, reared it and dug it on the farm where he was reared. He left school at 14 to go into a local hotel kitchen, determined to make cooking his life. And the awards (run by Georgina Campbell), which gave him such fulsome praise, added the rider "we wish him well". I wish him well too; indeed, I wish him better than dried-up, hard, flavourless fish and chips, and even harder and more flavourless salmon fishcakes, served with a weird thick grey paste that was supposed to be sauce tartare, as served in his Bentley's on St Stephen's Green. I got all the guff off two websites: Corrigan's own, and Campbell's awards website. Nowadays, of course, you don't see Richard Corrigan wandering around the verdant fields of Meath. He may spend a lot of time in Lindsay House, the Soho heart of his little empire which he opened in 1997, or in Bentley's of Fulham Road, which he acquired in 2005. But he actually seems to spend most of his time in front HASH(0x8bc5fcc) HASH(0x8bc6044) of television cameras, bitching like hell about the kind of lousy quality and lousy value he wants to save Irish (and British) diners from. Exposure which might lead you to believe that all of his restaurants must suffer from proprietorial neglect to some extent or other. And of course I may have a nasty peasant/Irish mind in imagining that it's only his Irish outlet that manifests contempt for its customers in expecting them not to know the difference between good (or even adequate) food and bad, or not to object to being treated with money-grubbing dismissiveness. Bentley's of London, where Corrigan was then head chef, achieved a Michelin star in 1994. He left to open his own venture, Lindsay House, in Soho in 1997. It went on to be cited as one of the top five restaurants in London in 2005, the same year Corrigan completed his circle by buying Bentley's when it came on the market. It's a hell of a rise to fame, and Corrigan opened his Dublin Bentley's in the hugely attractive premises of the former Browne's Brasserie on St Stephen's Green last year. And you do hear good reports, as well as reading good reviews. But the problem with Dublin is that a lot of restaurants are lauded by food critics who have never paid a restaurant bill out of their own pockets in their lives, and by conspicuous spenders who wouldn't recognise good food if a fresh lobster sprang off a plate and bit them. As long as it's expensive and newly fashionable, it's lauded to the skies by these taste-bud challenged loudmouths. That's all about to change: restaurants are struggling, from cafe bars to Michelin-starred. Only the good in their categories will survive, and that's few enough, (and that means value and quality) despite what the food writers may gush. I recently saw a lamentation from a food critic for The Winding Stair. The last time I ate there, the food was close to inedible, and the service was worse. I have been in Bentley's in Dublin four times. The restaurant knows this, because I sent an email earlier in the week giving out blue bloody murder. I happen to love what can loosely be called "nursery food". Well cooked, and served with flair and charm, it can be heaven. Bentley's specialises in it. And I don't mind paying a lot of money for it. Well, I do; but when I go to a fashionable restaurant I know it's going to be expensive. It's when it doesn't give value for money that I bitch; and I bitch loudly. The first time I was in Bentley's was for lunch on a Saturday. It was perfectly pleasant: food that was what it set out to be, pleasant service, expensive but not rip-off. The second time was a Friday night for dinner. I was a guest, so I will say merely that the food was disappointing, wine the wrong temperature, and the service appallingly slow. The next time was a Sunday evening. I was looking forward to giving my niece, here briefly from her Australian base, a memorable dinner (she travels between Los Angeles, New York, Paris and Cannes, and I was on my mettle on Dublin's behalf). I had booked two weeks in advance. There is one table crushed under the bar, where your eyeline is on a par with the rear end of anyone seated on a bar stool, and far too close for comfort. That was my table for the evening. Or rather, it was until I objected, although I was moved only with a very poor grace. When it came to the menu, much was made of the description of the lobster. My niece said she got a lot of it in Australia; not like Irish, I reminded her, and she agreed. Our conversation was being witnessed by the waiter, who only broke off to take a whispered message from a colleague. Only when I said we would both have the lobster were we told it was "off". I don't know about you, but a supposedly top-class restaurant that merely crosses its fingers in the hope that customers won't order something, presumably because it's the most expensive item on offer, strikes me as cheap, tacky and very unstylish. But I'm fair. I gave them another chance. I booked for lunch on Monday, January 5. (To be truthful, one of the reasons was that most other good restaurants were still closed after Christmas.) I booked for 12.30, to be told that "there's a two-hour limit on the tables. We'll need it back at 2.30". I kept the booking (see above!), but told them that I considered their attitude appalling, given their price range, which should preclude them trying to do double sittings. Our first courses were fine. Then my friend (this was a supposed to be a post-Christmas treat for someone who's been having a rough time!) had fish and chips, and I had salmon fishcakes. Nursery food par excellence. Except it wasn't. Refer back to the earlier mention: dry, hard, flavourless. (Both of them.) We'd have done better in a chipper, although I admit Bentley's didn't smell of vinegar. And my tartare sauce was nothing short of weird: I was tempted to save it for a bit of corner wallpapering that needed doing at home. Asked if everything had been all right, I told the truth, only in rather more restrained terminology than I'm using here. We were offered complimentary desserts, which we both turned down. "Then," said the waiter with an air of magnanimous generosity, "coffee will be on the house." I kid you not. I don't welcome the prospect of a lot of restaurants closing down because of the recession: a lot of employees will lose their jobs. But I won't be shedding any tears for restaurants which have been getting away with murder. It will be interesting to see if the loudly self-promoting Richard Corrigan's Bentley's will be one of them. In the meantime, my "posh" eating and entertaining for special occasions will remain faithful to the two restaurants which may be struggling at present, but I'm willing to bet will still be there when things get better: they look after people, and they serve wonderful food. They're called Restaurant Patrick Guilbaud and Chapter One. And I love them. 
