food reviews
{  
    May 14 2012 08:09 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/sharon-swaps-the-pen-for-a-pan-in-new-cafe-27419861.html }
THE pen might be mightier than the sword, but in Dingle the pan might be even mightier than the pen as one local writer found when her love of food saw her swap the keyboard for the chopping board. Journalist and adult literacy teacher Sharon Ní Chonchúir recently established a new café in Dick Mack's yard on Dingle's Green Street; her first official venture into the culinary arts. The writer, who is a regular contributor to The Irish Post, The Examiner and The Irish Voice, has been waxing lyrical about her love of food in print for many years now and despite pressing economic times, she has taken the plunge this year by launching her café Béile Le Chéile. "I've been interested in food for a long time, ever since I lived and studied in France and was exposed to good food there," Sharon told The Kerryman this week. "I then started cooking for my boyfriend - it's great having someone who appreciates food to cook for." As Sharon experimented with cooking, she soon discovered a particular talent for baking. Fortunately, the discovery was welltimed as the recession hit hard. "I've been working as a journalist and teacher for the past seven years or so and three years ago, when the recession started to hit, my work suffered," she explained. "A lot of newspapers and magazines cut back on their freelance contributors and I wasn't getting as much work as I had been. So, I started to think about ways of making extra money and paying my mortgage." Sharon's sister Muireann suggested that she set up a baking stall at the Dingle Farmers' Market at Holy Ground. Her cupcake stall proved a hit and soon after that, she also started an online food blog, Foodfancies.com, combining her love of baking and writing. "I met lots of different food producers through it and starting doing a lot more experimenting with food and even reviewing different restaurants and cafés," she said. "Eventually, I thought it was time to stop writing and thinking about food all the time and to try to do something myself, so here I am, I've opened a café - Béile le Chéile - in Dick Mack's Yard!" Sharon has focussed on simple food using local ingredients and, so far, this recipe has proven successful with dishes such as Asian pulled pork served with a spicy red cabbage coleslaw and tortilla, Mediterranean Stew, her cupcakes and home-baking proving to be a hit with customers. While Sharon may be devoting her time to food at the minute, she is still writing and juggling the pen along with the pots and pans and has aspirations to develop Béile Le Chéile into a meeting place with plans to develop afternoon tea and a book club. Reflecting on the venture, despite the obvious economic challenges that exist in the current climate; Sharon is happy with her decision to venture into the food business. "In some ways, I sometimes think I must be mad to have set up a business in this current climate. There are so many costs and so many potential risks. But do you know what: nothing ventured, nothing gained and you never get anywhere in life by playing things safe," she said. 
