food reviews
{ Graham Clifford 
    October 30 2014 03:24 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/health-wellbeing/health-features/changing-the-unhealthy-menus-in-irelands-hospitals-30705327.html }
Hundreds of pink salmon darnes cook in large ovens while steam rises from the freshly made mashed potatoes. Broccoli and other vegetables are placed on plates while vats of gravy are produced to add that finishing touch to the beef dishes.  We could be in a busy city-centre restaurant but in fact we're witnessing the catering department at Cork University Hospital (CUH) in full flow. One of the busiest hospitals in the country, it produces 2,200 meals per day for patients or around one million dishes a year. "I've been working here since 1991 and the quality of food served to patients has definitely improved over the last 23 years," explains Michael McCarthy, the Head of Catering at CUH. "We're determined to get the right meal to the right patient quickly and operate 44 trolleys which reach 26 locations across the hospital. We've 110 staff and take great pride in our work, quality is everything. If we have a complaint, which is rare, we'll send someone up to the ward within an hour to speak with the patient." "We're very fortunate in CUH to have a catering department capable of providing food cooked freshly daily, and served 'carvery-style'," the hospital's Principal Clinical Nutritionist and Dietician Manager Annemarie Fanning tells me, adding "vegetables are cooked in small batches throughout service to retain maximum nutrients". There's no doubting the efforts being made to deliver decent-quality food at CUH and some other HSE-run hospitals across the country, but there are still many facilities where the food served leaves an awful lot to be desired. Tender documents seen by the Irish Independent last year show that hospitals are still spending millions on processed foods such as chips, battered sausages and frozen pizzas. I spoke to one mother from Kilkenny who told me that her four-year-old-son developed a taste for chips following a short stay in hospital recently. "Ronan was in having some tests and he's a real spuds-and-veg man. However, chips were high on the menu, served with chicken nuggets or fish fingers. Ironically, he never had much time for chips before his short hospital stay, but now is quite partial", explains mother Meave. While she found the quality of food in a Cork hospital adequate, she believed there was a shortage of healthy options - especially for patients with specific dietary requirements. "There was a distinct lack of fibre on the menu. This was particularly apparent at breakfast where the only option was white toast daily," she said. "No orange juice even. All sandwiches were made with white bread and contained only plain meat. We were never offered rice or pasta for Ronan, both of which have a wholemeal option". And a diabetic patient from the West told Weekend Review that just last week he had to call a nurse to request she remove the strawberry trifle which he'd just been served. He'd been off his insulin pending a procedure and the consumption of the dessert could have seen his blood-sugar level rise to dangerous levels. In Britain a campaign to improve hospital food has been gathering pace in recent months with patients emailing thousands of pictures of their less than satisfactory hospital dinners to the group behind the initiative. So is there a realistic expectation that the quality of the food served in all public hospitals here will improve? Are hospital staff fully aware of the importance of providing nutritious food to patients when they most need it? The HSE told Weekend Review: "We are working in partnership with The Irish Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism (IrSPEN) and are drafting new nutritional guidelines for hospitals and community settings. The HSE will also implement a nutrition and hydration initiative next year. "Hospital menus are planned by trained personnel in each hospital in order to meet nutritional standards and requirements", and "each individual patient is assessed to ascertain their nutritional needs and requirements, often on a daily basis. The specific dietetic requirements of patients are planned in conjunction with the relevant professionals." In theory, all of this seems sensible but all too often the HSE guidelines from the top don't transfer to the wards across the country. Take for example in the Coombe Maternity Hospital in Dublin last year when a patient posted a picture on Twitter of their dinner, which consisted of a sausage roll, some over-cooked wedges and a dollop of tomato sauce. By the HSE's own admission, "hospital catering is provided through a combination of contract arrangements and/or in-house staff. Arrangements in place will vary from hospital to hospital". Surprisingly, the HSE claim the average cost of a meal provided in hospitals is between €8 and €9. "Good quality medical care and poor nutritional care are not compatible", said Niamh Rice, of IrSPEN, adding "both the food itself and the speedy process of getting it to the patient is vital. ''When you're ill you lose protein and muscle so it's vital you're given appropriate nutritional food to help fight your illness. That in turn can reduce the length of your stay in hospital so can benefit both the patient and the hospital". The Irish Nutrition and Dietetic Institute (INDI) has been advising the HSE on what kind of foods are needed for sick patients for many years but their CEO Jennifer Feighan admits that advice isn't always put into action. "On a lot of occasions our hands are tied when it comes to output and what turns up on a patients meal tray may not be in line with our thinking. Hospital catering is often outsourced and sometimes subject to very tight budgetary constraints". Nutritional specialist Dr Donal O'Shea, who is also Chairman of the Irish Heart Foundation's Nutrition Council, believes the HSE needs a zero-tolerance approach to certain foods currently being served in Irish hospitals. "Chips have to go, they have no place on a hospital menu. Other processed foods high in salt and sugar as well as creamy sauces are not going to help the patient. A balanced diet where all the food groups are included is what's urgently needed", he said. Dr O'Shea added: "Perhaps patients want comfort food when they're unwell but that doesn't mean we serve them food that reduces their ability to get better and, in some cases, can cause them more harm. ''There have been policies and talks about this from the HSE for years but it doesn't trickle down to each hospital's catering department. What we need now is action, the HSE has to go a long way beyond issuing yet another policy document." CHIPS: It's estimated the HSE will buy almost 90 tonnes of frozen chips (from 2013 to 2017). SAUSAGE ROLLS: 45,000 sausage rolls are to be purchased within next three years. Annual consumption is estimated at 15,000 a year in our public hospitals. PIZZAS: While thousands of frozen Pizzas are ordered annually some hospitals now make their own for patients. PROCESSED FOODS: Each year the HSE spends approximately €32 million on food product expenditure with roughly €2.5 million of that being spent on processed foods. Based on HSE tender documents from 2013 covering the Western Region and nine counties   Indo Review 
