food reviews
{  
    January 26 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/neven-samples-food-trail-as-it-looks-to-2019-37724631.html }
The wonderful food and chefs of Sligo Food Trail are the focus of Neven's Irish Seafood Trails on RTE1 next week. The celebrity chef and award winning restaurant owner toured the Wild Atlantic Way in search of superlative seafood and he certainly found it in Sligo. The county is blessed with an abundance of exceptional fish, shellfish and sea vegetables. During his Sligo tour, Neven visited Anthony Gray's Eala Bhán on Rockwood Parade and cooked with head chef Marcin Szczodrowski and at nearby Hooked. Neven also took a trip to Mullaghmore and cooked with Eithna O'Sullivan of Eithna's By The Sea. He also paid a visit to Aisling Kelly and Ireland's first Sligo Oyster Experience at WB's Coffee Shop on Stephen Street before visiting and viewing the oyster harvesting and packing in operation with Wild Atlantic Oysters. Neven's Irish Seafood Trails is on RTE 1 on Wednesday 30th January starting at 8.30pm. Recipes will be available afterwards on the Bord Bia website. Meanwhile, Sligo Food Trail members are looking forward to a positive 2019. New Chairperson, Cllr. Marie Casserly said: "Sligo Food Trail has proved itself over the last three years and along with the new committee, I look forward to cementing our place on the destination foodie map in 2019 and beyond. "Members benefit from an active social media and national marketing campaign, new printed promotional material and video, and cross-promotion with other members." She was speaking at a Sligo Food Trail information evening at the Radisson Blu Hotel. The meeting incorporated a review of activities in 2018. Highlights included the impressive feature in the current edition of Cara, the Aer Lingus in-flight magazine and the visit of the Guild of Irish Food Writers over the summer. Additionally, Sligo Food Trail was one of just three foodie destinations selected by Fáilte Ireland to take part in a pilot nine month Step Change Programme which finished last month. Sligo Food Trail is currently open to new members for a limited time. Restaurants, cafés, food producers or pubs who are interested in joining are invited to email dine@sligofoodtrail.ieand join up before the end of January. Sligo Champion 
