food reviews
{  
    July 18 2008 10:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/restaurant-reviewer-the-restaurant-26462763.html }
IF MARKS and Spencer is good enough for Myleene Klass, it’s good enough for me. I wear their knickers... and their flight socks. Their fragrant purple stock, at just €4.49 a bunch, makes my house smell of summer despite the non-stop rain. And yes, even I, oh high and mighty food critic, deign to buy my dinner there. It’s hard to beat those always ripe Haas avocados, the Oakham chicken from Co Antrim is pretty good, and I love the creamy smudge that is their Cashel Blue, albeit from Co Waterford. Marks & Sparks, ya had me – until I had the grave misfortune of eating in your new restaurant on Grafton Street. And now, it’s all off – even the knickers. I do not love thee anymore. In fact, you suck. Where do I begin? With the blurb on the back of the menu? “We use the same ingredients you’d find in our food halls to make the freshlyprepared dishes in The Restaurant…” Sort of like Fallon & Byrne, I thought to myself, only more packaging to open before the chef marinates the chicken, or trims and ties the asparagus spears. On umpteen occasions, we were told everything on the menu came from the food hall downstairs. What this actually means is that everything on the menu is for sale downstairs – mostly in the ready meal aisle. I had to grill three members of staff to extract a confession that very little is prepared from scratch. The asparagus soup I ordered to start was out of stock. I settled instead for Italian vine ripened tomato soup, served lukewarm in a searing hot bowl, which suggested a microwave. How lazy can you be? For heavens sake – soup from a carton – or at least that’s what I was told. What next? Food administered NASA style, in a flavoured pill? I will not stoop to comment on a carton of soup, produced in a food lab, somewhere in England, one presumes. And so to Ma Flannery’s prawn and avocado salad. It contained two slivers of avocado – something the M&S food hall stocks in abundance. What is going on here? Asking why so many things were either missing or lacking from the menu, I was told there was an issue with ensuring there was enough of everything to go around. The restaurant didn’t want to leave the food hall short. Or something like that. Of course, the obvious question here is: what about the customer? Would it be feasible to nip downstairs, buy your own carton of asparagus soup and have them serve it to you in The Restaurant? Probably not. Aside from feeling misled and baffled by the “concept”, as it was explained to us, there was an exhaustive supply of causes to complain. The balcony overlooking Grafton Street will be a real draw if the sun ever shines on Dublin again, but the windows are draughty and the white tables are already yellowed. The service is calamitous; five or six people waited on our table. Two of them quite simply couldn’t speak or understand enough English to take our order. Shaky-tray syndrome was endemic, spillages were imminent at every turn, while cutlery was removed, replaced and then removed again without reason. Only one waiter – an Italian, I think – had a clue how to wait on a table. What did he do to land in this karmic hole? The fish & chips and roast of the day that we ordered for the main course were the closest thing I’ve eaten to airplane food while still on terra firma. The battered haddock was not prepared in situ, despite the fact that haddock, eggs, flour and milk are all sold in the food hall. The roast pork was tough, flavourless and untraditionally served with chewy Yorkshire pudding and some astonishingly awful roast potatoes, which were covered in a film of cold congealed grease. At this point, our miserable faces caught the attention of a senior member of staff, who I assumed was the manager since he had the authority to dock the two uneaten meals from our bill. “What’s the matter?” he wanted to know, before intimating we were “the matter” by asserting he’d received only positive feedback from other customers. Conceding that the menu comprised mostly ready meals, his defence of M&S came down to a plea that they were doing “their best”. If I’d given the chap a shovel. he’d still be digging his way to Darwin. In place of the “unavailable” organic carrot cake, I’d some mealy scones for “dessert”. Ma Flannery’s trifle was passable, although the custard was too runny, she said, before rightly concluding that if you hadn’t shopped in Marks and Spencer before, you’d never do it now. Certainly, they put my knickers in a twist. TYPICAL DISH: Roast of the day RECOMMENDED: Give it a miss THE DAMAGE: €52.34 for two starters, two mains, two desserts, tea, coffee ON THE STEREO: Coldplay AT THE TABLE: Shoppers WHAT TO WEAR: Per Uno DO SAY: Whose M&S? DON’T SAY: Not my M&S 
