food reviews
{ Jonathan Philbin Bowman 
    December 08 2013 01:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/jonathan-philbin-bowman-god-but-this-woman-is-intelligent-and-interesting-and-accomplished-29819439.html }
In September 1999, the late journalist Jonathan Philbin Bowman interviewed Nigella Lawson at her London home. Her life then was far from the public drama being played out today in a London court. Jonathan was clearly entranced by the beautiful and intelligent Nigella. Here we revisit his report that we published at the time 'THE trouble with children is they don't flush." Nigella Lawson is the sort of cheerful host who would call out such a warning as you head off toward the bathroom. But not the sort of neurotic English ninny who would have frantically rushed around checking every bathroom in the house before answering the doorbell. She might be busy, but she's busy casual, not busy flustered. I have arrived only half an hour late to her house. This was about two weeks ago and London was boiling, turning every taxi into a sauna, plus she had, through some mix-up, expected me an hour before. So in her books I was, maybe, an hour-and-a-half late. "You won't mind if, when you get here, I'm just finishing off a few things in the kitchen." Mind? How could I mind? Surely the chance to see Nigella whizzing about her own kitchen, organising who knows what, and throwing out or saving remnants of yesterday's ratatouille, is one that any man of healthy appetites would relish. And anyway, aren't lazy Hollywood scriptwriters and amateur psychologists everywhere always saying that you can tell everything about a person by the contents of their fridge? Don't they have tabloid magazines in the States that pay people to go through celebrity garbage, and find out just which brand of and how much instant coffee is being consumed in OJ's house? In the event, the kitchen is book-lined and just a little crowded. There is Nigella; her home help, who I think is heading off for the weekend; her nanny; and Bruno, who is in his threes. She puts the kettle on for me and, consulting a list scribbled on the back of something else, starts off in search of spinach. She is also keeping up three conversations, and thinking aloud. The sun is streaming through the window. Her husband, John Diamond, walks in. "Oh, John," she says, holding up a bag, "would this be enough mangetout for 17?" John gurgles something guttural. "Sixteen," she says, "of course," putting her hand to her forehead in a 'Silly-me' gesture, the balletic equivalent of Homer Simpson's 'Doh'. She had forgotten that her husband would be present, but not eating. Diamond has cancer. He is in remission, but in the meantime he has lost his tongue. Hence his strange speech and his inability to eat. He doesn't use a voice-box, or other device. To the uninitiated it's pretty much indecipherable. Nigella acts, almost unconsciously, as interpreter. "He's saying he doesn't like the Erotic Review. He doesn't trust Chris Peachment as an arbiter of sexuality." You see, even complex words like 'arbiter' can be managed. Because I am possibly the only one in the room who doesn't understand John's speech, I am lagging behind in my responses. It is the exact mirror of the sensation you have watching an English-language film with French subtitles when in France, the sensation of being completely out of synch, because you laugh every time anyone says something funny, and the audience lags behind you at the pace of the subtitles. Diamond, a columnist and former Radio 4 broadcaster, has written a fine and funny book called C (subtitle: Because Cowards Get Cancer Too...). It is deeply moving without ever being maudlin. "Urgent, Funny, Unputdownable," says Melvyn Bragg, quoted on the cover, and he's right. I tell John I have been reading his book, and enjoying it very much. One of the things that sings astringently from the pages is his abiding love of his wife; not that he goes on about it, but sometimes it only takes a sentence or two. Maybe love stories are commonplace. Maybe it is only we, outside, who see them as a special case. Maybe it is only because of what we project on to the "tragic" aspects of their situation that their love looks so poignant, remarkable, resilient and almost operatic in its reach. She loves him too. A week or so before, there was another interview with Nigella in the Telegraph. The headline read: 'What else could I do, leave him?' Nigella is getting on with the food business, and with distributing her surplus supplies to the home help in a you-may-as-well-take-this sort of way. I am watching with a mixture of awe, admiration and perhaps some envy. She may not be the most perfectly divine wife, woman and mother but she does an effortlessly convincing impersonation of the archetype. John is sitting beside me, also looking on. He gurgles something. I indicate that I don't understand. He finds a pen and, blithely unaware of the potential for chaos if it were lost, he picks Nigella's "Must Do" list off the table and scribbles in the margin. Indicating the scene before us, his beautiful wife stepping over his beautiful child to return something to the fridge and all human life is there: he writes down three words: "Inspiring, isn't it?" It is, and I smile. Mange-tout measured, Nigella and I are upstairs in a sitting room, slurping more than sipping tea. The room is calm and mostly plain white. Underdone. Al dente, maybe. Over in a far corner are three small portraits of John, lying against the skirting awaiting framing. Also there is the palette that the artist used to mix the colours. Nigella is thinking of framing the palette too, separately, but hanging it close by. God, in whom she does not believe, is in the details. The living room leads on to a comfortable chaotic study filled with papers, and spoiled copies of her new book How to Eat, and on top of all of it there's a stylish black Apple Mac. Nigella is a delight to interview. She will address anything, and it's not that she has "an opinion on everything" so much as a perspective. Certainly she thinks about anything you say to her, and her responses nearly always make you think more. This is all a huge relief. I had hoped that we wouldn't be obliged to talk about nothing but food and food writing. I like food, and I like it more than most. I'm even interested in food, but I cannot stand that precious conversation you get, often between two food writers, which endlessly analyses the difference between this lettuce and that. You know the story: ordinary couples divorce over whether you should put the cap back on the toothpaste. Food writers divorce over whether you can ever marry Sauternes with dark chocolate. Happily Nigella is not a bit like this. "My mother-in-law was hugely amused last week. She was teasing me. Because we live in this not terribly expensive area, we're surrounded by all kinds of take-away shops, and I was eating a chip sandwich for my tea. 'Nigella,' she said, 'what do you think the readers of Vogue would think if they could see their restaurant reviewer now?'" Nigella, I get the strong impression, couldn't give a damn. "You know the way people come up to you and they say something like, 'What qualifies you to be a restaurant critic?' And I always tell them that what qualifies me is that someone is willing to pay me to do it." Nigella, as I have noted, is a wonderful person to talk to. As good a conversationalist as you could hope to be seated by at any table. I don't know whether I could ever eat a McDonald's but I would exist for the rest of my life on a diet of chip sandwiches so long as she were in the seat opposite. We talk about her writing; aside from the food writing she contributes a weekly column to the Observer. It is more the sound of someone unusually interesting, thinking aloud. Although thinking aloud isn't always a great idea, in Nigella's case it is because the quality of thought is matched by the quality of expression. She criticises her own writing. "Women," she says, "tend to over-use qualifiers and the nervous interrogative," suggesting that perhaps it's because they're not sure of themselves. "Oh, God," I say. "You're lucky there's not some Freudian feminist linguistic text which says that you use too many question marks because you've been undermined by men." "Actually, there is," she says disarmingly. "It's called Man Made Language. That's where I got all this stuff." Our brief conversation was far too wide-ranging to do justice to in a single article. She talked about politics. On Alan Clarke, "In some matters, I'm a puritan." Her dislike is partly personal because he wrote a nasty and anti-Semitic attack on her brother Dominic, "and he's my brother". She votes Labour generally, she says (despite being the daughter of ex-Chancellor Nigel Lawson). "Except for your father?" I ask, presuming her family loyalty goes up a generation. "No. I always made it a matter of principle not to be registered wherever he was standing. Politics is something you work out for yourself. But I would never want to vote against him." We agree that interviews are awful things. We also agree that journalism is a wonderful profession. The freedom to pursue your interests is almost unparalleled: "I feel terribly lucky, more and more." The next day I send her an email. People, I suggest, will have difficulty in hearing her talk about how "lucky" she is. After all, her sister died of cancer at 25, her mother too died of cancer, and here she is now with two young children and a husband who has cancer. How "lucky" is that? Secondly, I want to know what she says to those who feel that in the face of such suffering it is not worth worrying about what kind of salad to serve. She replies: "Well, I know it sounds odd to describe myself as lucky, but except for in one monumental way, I am. And you know to be married to someone one loves deeply, to have children also deeply loved and work that interests one, is an immense blessing. I am not as Pollyanna-ish as this makes me sound, though, and there are times when I'm explosive with grief-stricken resentment. "And as for the fiddling-while-Rome-burns notion (not that you put it like that), I think I am more convinced now than I was that all pleasures in life are to be valued and enjoyed. The reality of it all, as well, is that we most truly experience life in what you could call its trivialities." Back in the living-room I ask her what she believes in. Is her faith strong? "No. I am an absolutely committed atheist." John, her husband, has returned somewhat to his Jewish faith, and wants it to be passed on to the children. To her it's all irrational bunk, although she concedes that you have to like a religion which puts food at the centre of its sacraments. Later, in another email, she writes: "I have no faith in anything. Or rather, I have faith in my emotions, I know that they exist, although I sometimes have difficulty separately acknowledging them. Actually, I do have faith in something: I am a secret, or not so secret, Freudian." I ask her about the Telegraph headline, the one that read: "What else could I do, leave him?" "I honestly don't know what would be the way of behaving that would be other," she says. It is not the case that she has made some "brave choice" to stand by him. She simply didn't see a choice. And anyway, they are in love, can't you see? She does think, though, that it is more difficult for men to understand. They behave differently, are less comfortable with physical frailty or failure. "John says if it had been me he would have gotten a nurse in ages ago." She didn't. However, she is very careful not to become his nurse. "You do need to have a proper adult relationship and not just be a carer." I had thought it appropriate not to arrive empty-handed. And so I brought some smoked salmon and some brown bread. After our conversation has concluded or at least been put on hold, we descend once more to the kitchen. Cosima, 5, and known as Mimi, and Bruno are eating pasta, which is the most fabulously orangey-yellow colour (Italian eggs). Bruno wants to show off his pasta-eating prowess, you know the way kids like to suck a single strand of spaghetti. I ask if he can do it backwards, and I apologise for not thinking to bring something for the kids. "Oh, that's perfectly all right," says Nigella, picking up the smoked salmon, "they love this." "They would," I say, and she smiles. She wants to give me some eggs before I leave, and to explain the "mix of cultures" involved in tonight's dinner, a celebration of the Jewish new year. She has prepared something called gateaux des rois, a puff pastry case, frangipane within, which, she explains, the French traditionally serve on the Epiphany. "My birthday," she says. "Mine too," I say, thinking that I couldn't share a better birthday with anyone, and, reluctantly, reconsidering astrology, I take my leave. God, but this woman is intelligent and interesting and accomplished. And did I mention that she is also extraordinarily beautiful? But she's married. And happily, very happily. It is not just she who is lucky. In other circumstances I'd have fallen in love with her and probably put on a lot of weight as a result. One of the questions I append to the next day's email is if she has a favourite piece of poetry. "There's not a piece of poetry that is lodged in my brain so much as a wonderful piece of prose, a sentence by Isabel Allende, uttered in an interview in '98: 'I repent of my diets, the delicious dishes rejected out of vanity, as much as I lament the opportunities for making love that I let go by because of pressing tasks or puritanical virtue.' I wouldn't say I necessarily agreed with her," Nigella adds, "but I admire her for it!" Inspiring, isn't it? Sunday Independent 
