food reviews
{  
    September 01 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/review-will-seal-fate-of-state-dunally-lab-36077665.html }
Fianna Fail TD Marc MacSharry has claimed that the Cost Benefit Analysis commissioned by the Government will do little more than affirm its wish to close the State laboratories in Kilkenny Limerick and Sligo. The TD claims the terms of reference were "a classic Government stroke" to secure plausible deniability with the use of a so called 'independent' consultant who will, it seems, need to be 'guided' by a Department 'Steering Group'. "Why would an independent consultant need to be guided by a 'steering group'? It doesn't sound very independent to me. "Perhaps it has something to do with the need to ensure that the preferred option of the Strategic Review on Laboratories to close three which was published in December 2016 and implemented without any blame accruing to the Government?" Deputy MacSharry first raised the matter in November 2012 when rumours abounded about the Government plan "to destroy the disease surveillance capacity of the State as a short sighted cost saving measure." "This is a matter of huge concern that despite contrary advice not from parish pump retentionists in the political or farming lobby but those at the cutting edge of animal disease science that this crazy plan seems likely to proceed. "The Veterinary Officers Association of Ireland has said that "our enviable animal health and food safety reputation will be put at risk. "The Association maintains "the contingency plan for exotic disease control needs a response time of less than two hours. "Reducing the number of laboratories would seriously hamper the potential to meet this requirement." "International best practice now states clearly that smaller localised service teams work more effectively and identify closely with their clients, rather than going to the larger centre models. "Government consolidation plans are based on practices in the Netherlands and Belgium which enjoy a much smaller geographic land mass in one incidence and a superior commutable access infrastructure of high quality motorway in both. Ireland sadly does not enjoy this. RVL closure plans are no doubt a cost saving brainwave borne of the dark days of the financial crash with inordinate pressures on the resources in all Departments." Deputy MacSharry stressed: "the scientific need for our existing network stands to scrutiny and with an annual running cost of €4.5m per year to proceed with the preferred option of what amounts effectively to a two laboratory network at Athlone and Cork with the cessation of ruminant (cattle & sheep) post mortems at Backweston due to the proximity to the high containment laboratory and bio security risks is penny wise and pound foolish. It is to miss the bigger picture." He said the cost of the Foot and Mouth disease outbreak to Britain was €10 billion. "Contributing to this was an effective shut down of all major events, football matches, concerts any get-together of significant size and reduced domestic and international demand for certain produce. There was also loss in sales of food exports, reputational damage in scientific and surveillance quality and contingency. "The tourism industry in Ireland is worth in the region of €9bn per annum and our food & drink exports are an irreplaceable component of our economy with minister Creed rightly celebrating our record performance in 2016 of close to €12 billion. "The Agri-food, drink and tourism industries are by far our largest indigenous employers. As a nation are we really going to jeopardise more than 20 billion per annum for the sake of an annual outlay in Animal Disease Surveillance of just €4.5m? "If you break it down even further to individual events, the Galway Races estimated value to the county of the tribes is €30m per annum. "An Ireland-England Rugby International almost €12m according to the Dublin Chamber of Commerce. "These are but two small examples but clearly there are important events in every community nationwide which relatively speaking can have a significant impact locally and a cumulatively devastating impact nationally if cancellation is demanded. Such are the threats of late detection of a Foot and Mouth outbreak or other emerging disease. "The Regional Labs are some 50 years in existence with Sligo the first of the Regional Laboratories set to celebrate its half century on October 3rd next. Credit for eradication of Brucellosis, management of the BSE and avian flu crisis to mention a few can rightly be shared by and is testament to our RVL network. "About 60 percent of all human diseases and 75 percent of all emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic, according to the researchers. Most human infections with zoonosis come from livestock, including pigs, chickens, cattle, goats, sheep and camels.  "Out of 56 zoonosis studied, researchers found 13 that were most important in terms of their impact on human deaths, the livestock sector and the severity of disease in people, along with their amenability to agriculture-based control. "Other animal to human diseases more familiar to us so far are BSE/CJD, Avian Flu, and Swine Flu. "On October 3rd 1967, Don Davern, Parliamentary Secretary (today Junior Minister) to the Minister for Agriculture said when opening the first of the Regional Veterinary Laboratories in Sligo: "the elimination or substantial reduction of animal diseases would result in an increase in the order of millions of pounds in the incomes of farmers". "How right he was. What has changed since? "Well, the farming, agri food and drink production and tourism sectors are infinitely more important today than 50 years ago. These sectors are the largest indigenous employers as mentioned above. "The inextricable link between all of this and our economic and social wellbeing cannot be denied nor can the importance of an appropriately resourced surveillance and animal disease network which is without doubt much more important today than in 1967. Moreover, Foreign Travel, movement of livestock, exotic animals, food and ease of access through air and sea travel globally for all has not reduced risk but rather increased the prevalent risks of the 1960's in terms of disease spread not just of established diseases but those yet to emerge. "Thirty years ago in the main no one heard of Avian Flu, Swine Flu, BSE/CJD or BVD. "With hundreds of thousands of jobs, tens of billions of euro, the uncertain impact of Brexit on these matters and the instantaneous nature of reputational damage given social and all forms of global media replacing the sluggish bush wire of the 1960's, a decision to save €4.5m or even double that with necessary capital expenditure at the existing network could surely be seen as being penny wise and pound foolish. "For these reasons any cost benefit analysis being undertaken must have a much wider scope to encompass the magnitude of risk versus the economic and social prosperity dependency on the continued expansion and growth of agri food and drink exports and tourism. Unless there is immediate amendments to the terms of reference I fear we are about to make an extremely costly mistake." Sligo Champion 
