food reviews
{ Dearbhail McDonald and Ashleigh Wallace 
    February 09 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/38000-for-eatery-after-critical-review-26274948.html }
FOOD critics beware, it seems that the bark can be a lot worse than the bite. Or so the the 'Irish News' has learned after being ordered to pay a restaurateur £25,000 (?38,000). A jury found a review in the newspaper about a west Belfast eatery to be just a bit too rich. The Belfast paper printed a review of Goodfellas restaurant written by Caroline Workman six years ago. It criticised the quality of food and drink, the staff and the smoky atmosphere in the premises on Kennedy Way. She gave it a rating of one mark out of a possible five, prompting its owner, a former taxi driver, to launch a libel action. The award has been described as "disturbing" by the National Union of Journalists, which said diners demanded robust reviews and would not tolerate "flam" by critics. Ciarnan Convery, who opened the restaurant in 1991, claimed the article was a "hatchet job". Mrs Workman defended her review, stating that her comments were "completely honest" during the hearing in the High Court in Belfast last week. Mrs Workman is a celebrated critic who trained in three different types of restaurants in London and is a former editor of the Bridgestone restaurant guide. She told the jury that the garnish accompanying her prawn starter dish was floating in a warm sauce, that the pate did not have much flavour and that when she cut a ring of her squid dish she found the meat was a grey translucent colour. She also spelled out several other aspects of her "hugely disappointing dining experience". Mr Convery's legal team claimed the review was defamatory, damaging and hurtful and said the 'Irish News' had failed to apologise or print a retraction. Mrs Workman defended her review, stating that her comments were "completely honest" The claim was denied by the newspaper, which pleaded justification and fair comment in its defence. After the verdict, a spokesman for the 'Irish News' said the paper was planning to appeal the verdict. However, a delighted Mr Convery said: "Goodfellas is a successful business and today's verdict has proved to me, my staff and my customers that we did the right thing by launching the libel action," he said. 
