food reviews
{ Aideen Sheehan Consumer Correspondent 
    December 14 2009 04:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/children-dont-eat-enough-junk-to-be-hyperactive-26591225.html }
NEW laws warning that certain food additives can make children hyperactive are totally unnecessary -- because children don't consume remotely enough to cause problems, according to a leading Irish scientist. University College Dublin expert Professor Mike Gibney says that new warning labels about foods containing artificial colourants are "bad for science". He said children would have to eat four large bags of sweets every day to reach the required exposure levels, which means that half their daily calorie intake would have to come from sweets. And he accused EU lawmakers of "pandering to the anti-chemical lobby", and passing "daft laws" which bore no relation to the risks involved. Prof Gibney carried out a new study along with a consortium of Irish universities, and his research revealed that Irish children or teenagers do not eat enough additives to induce hyperactivity. Colourants such as sunset yellow, tartrazine, and quinoline yellow were linked to hyperactivity in children in a study by Southampton University two years ago -- and this prompted the EU to introduce warning labels on foods containing the additives stating that they "may have an adverse effect on activity and attention in children". However, Prof Gibney called on the EU and the European Food Safety Authority to urgently review the risk assessment process that led to the new law, which will come into force next month. His study, published in the international journal 'Food Additives and Contaminants', is based on detailed analysis of Irish children's consumption of foods containing the seven food additives found to cause increased hyperactivity. It found that less than 10pc of a child's food intake comes from sweets.  Danger "The European Parliament is pandering to the anti-chemical lobby and to people who decry modern food, even though there's no scientific justification for it, and it preys on people's and parents' fears about what's in food," said Prof Gibney. "It's like banning electricity because there's a danger you could stick your finger in a socket, it doesn't make sense and it's bad for science," he said. Prof Gibney is director of UCD's Institute of Food and Health and led the study along with scientists from University College Cork and the University of Ulster. Irish Independent 
