food reviews
{ Aideen Sheehan 
    June 07 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/87bn-spending-on-cigarettes-and-alcohol-beats-bill-for-food-26378390.html }
IRISH people spend more on drink and cigarettes than on food. Our annual shopping bill for food, including meals out, amounts to ?7.2bn, or 10.5pc of our ?69bn consumer budget. But we spend 9.9pc of this budget on drink and 2.7pc on tobacco, which together amounts to ?8.7bn in expenditure. Our total drink spend is ?6.8bn - of which 90pc goes on alcohol - while we spend ?1.9bn on cigarettes, the Department of Agriculture's Annual Review and Outlook 2005/06 revealed yesterday. And the food we do buy costs more than it would nearly everywhere else in Europe, with prices here 123pc of the European Union average, Agriculture Minister Mary Coughlan said at the launch of the report. One reason for the higher prices was s that we could not be bothered to do simple tasks like chop up fruit, and would rather pay extra for someone else to do it, she said. So, while basics such as a bag of potatoes probably cost less than they did 10 years ago, people wanted convenience food instead. "You go out to the Spar at the corner and buy a small bag of fruit chopped up, with the spoon in it. You could have bought the pineapple for a tenth of the price and chopped it up yourself," she said. The Groceries Order was abolished to try to decrease prices, although it did not seem to have had an impact so far, she noted. Despite the high prices, Irish people spend a lower proportion of their household income on food than people in all other EU countries except Britain. However, prices are higher in Ireland than in other EU countries for every food category, including meat and dairy products - which we produce in abundance - with only fats and oils cheaper than elsewhere in Europe. Nearly a quarter of our money goes on food, drink and tobacco, while 22pc of what we spend on food is on meals out, the figures from 2004 reveal. The findings are based on Central Statistics Office data. Ms Coughlan said she was "optimistic" that this year would be a good one for Irish farming. Despite concern about the rate at which Irish farmers were leaving the land, the rate here was much lower than elsewhere in Europe, she said. Land sales remained at historically low levels and prices continued to rise, so there was no evidence of a flight from the land. Fine Gael accused Ms Coughlan of the "worst case of denial" it had ever seen, saying six farmers a day were leaving the land under the current Government and one half of all farmers had another source of off-farm income. "The flight from the land is happening, and it's no surprise when you consider that figures show that the average Irish farmer made a loss of ?3,900 last year," said FG farm spokesman Denis Naughten. Meanwhile the Beverage Council of Ireland (BCI), which represents the soft drinks industry, has rejected claims that fizzy drinks are linked to obesity, saying they make up only 2.8pc of Irish children's energy intake. Dr Mary McCreery, a nutritionist who has carried out work for the BCI, said research had shown that those with a higher intake of sugar were less likely to be obese than those with a high-fat diet, and soft drinks were 90pc water. Fluids were vital for life and soft drinks were up to 90pc water. "All foods can be taken in moderation in the diet and children learn how to have a balanced approach to treats if they are not banned completely," she said. 
