food reviews
{  
    May 14 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/why-we-should-change-our-mind-on-farm-subsidies-25947157.html }
Food overproduction in the West is harming Third World farmers, writes  CIARAN BUCKLEY THE Irish government intends to resist the phasing out of agricultural subsidies at September's WTO meeting in Cancun - despite the fact that these subsidies threaten the livelihood of Third World farmers. The subsidies are also inconsistent with Ireland's more enlightened policies regarding foreign aid and the cancellation of Third World debt. Agriculture is a key economic area for Ireland and the Government is unlikely to agree to a rapid phasing out of subsidies, which provide Irish farming households with 60pc of their income. But the Trade Justice Ireland group organised a public lobby of the Dail yesterday to make the point that the proposed Fischler reforms of the Common Agricultural Policy present an opportunity to protect the interests of family farms, both at home and in the Third World. Trade Justice Ireland is a coalition of non-governmental organisations, including Concern, Trocaire, the ICTU and Christian Aid. The group wants the Government to push for limitations on the authority of the WTO, for greater transparency in the formulation of trade policy and for the inclusion of social issues such as human rights and the environment in the agenda of the WTO. The group also wants Ireland to push for the abolition of agricultural production and export subsidies, which would be a complete reversal of the stance it took in November 2001 in the Doha round of negotiations. "In Doha, Ireland and France were the ones who were most reluctant to see changes in EU policy in regard to subsidies," says Oisín Coghlan, policy officer for Christian Aid. The current system encourages European farmers to produce food for the sake of collecting subsidies, rather than producing food that can be sold profitably and consumed locally. Under the current system, surplus food is exported at a subsidised cost to countries outside the EU, often at prices below those at which local farmers can produce. "If local markets in the Third World are destroyed, then the local population comes to depend on imported food," says Oisín Coghlan. "Food may be cheaper in the short term, but the local food supply is very vulnerable to price shocks in the world currency or commodity markets, at which point there will be no local food production to support the population." An example of the dumping of surplus food on Third World markets is the manner in which the US provides export subsidies to US rice producers, who dump the rice on the Haitian market and put the local producers out of business. Although the US denies that it subsidises its farmers, the amount of support that it provides to its farmers is equivalent to or greater than that provided by the EU. Irish government policy reflects the view of Irish farm organisations, who don't see a substantial link between the subsidies paid to Irish farmers and the misfortunes of Third World farmers. Sources within the IFA acknowledge that Third World farmers are at a disadvantage to those in the EU. However, they make the point that other factors such as war, drought, corruption and manipulation of the world commodity markets by multinational corporations are more important factors than the income support mechanisms upon which Irish farming families depend. This viewpoint is borne out by charitable organisations who have first-hand experience of the problems of Third World farmers. "There are a lot of reasons why farmers in the Third World have problems and the general system of governance in many countries is not helpful," says Tom Arnold, chief executive of Concern. "Drought is a serious problem and the impact of Aids is huge because there are fewer people to work." Meanwhile, the IFA is charged with protecting the interests of the agricultural and food processing sector, which is Ireland's largest indigenous industry, accounting for 8.4pc of GDP, 9.5pc of employment and 7.1pc of exports in 2002. Production subsidies and export subsidies account for a large part of the income generated from these activities and Irish farmers received ?1.6bn in direct payments in 2002, accounting for 69pc of the operating profit from Irish farming. The IFA also makes the point that Irish farmers are not to blame for dumping on Third World markets. Beef and milk account for 58pc of Irish agricultural output and beef is a luxury good to the population of the world's poorest countries. These economies are more likely to be harmed by the dumping of commodities such as wheat and rice. Since cereals accounted for only 4pc of Irish agricultural exports in 2002, the blame for Third World hunger cannot be laid at the feet of the IFA. "Everybody wants to protect rural livelihoods in Ireland, but it should be possible to come up with a system that supports Irish livelihoods as well as those in the Third World," says Oisín Coghlan. The alternative to production subsidies are the "decoupled" payments which are being recommended by EU Farm and Fishery Commissioner Franz Fischler in his mid-term review of the Agenda 2000 EU agricultural agreement. Under the Fischler proposals, direct payments to farmers would be decoupled from their production levels and farmers would be paid based on the amount of land they farmed and the degree to which they complied with environmental regulations. Under these proposals, it would no longer be in the interest of farmers to produce food that they couldn't sell profitably and export subsidies would be abolished. A recent study carried out by Teagasc suggested that while decoupling might lead to a fall in farm incomes in the short term, it also suggested that farm prices would increase from their present levels in the medium term. If the Government and farming organisations changed their stance on the Fischler proposals, then they could lobby within the WTO for an end to dumping, not only by the EU but also by every member of the WTO, including the US. But although the Fischler proposals present a viable alternative to the current subsidy-based system and despite the fact that it runs contrary to its other policies regarding the Third World, the Irish government is determined to defend subsidies and will attempt to prolong them for as long as possible. Trade Justice Ireland wants voters to lobby politicians to reverse their position and to phase out subsidies are quickly as possible. "There are certain places in Africa which would seek to trade in European markets, where EU and US subsidies are a real problem," said Tom Arnold. "It is in the interest of Third World farmers that subsidies be phased out - now it's a question of how quickly they should be phased out." 
