food reviews
{ EMILE LAURAC 
    October 03 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/scientist-in-gm-food-row-to-be-vindicated-26134026.html }
THE scientist whose claims that genetically modified foods could damage health was rubbished by the scientific community is set to be vindicated, according to reports published earlier today. Later this week Britain's leading medical journal is expected to publish research by Dr Arpad Pusztai showing alarming changes in the guts of rats fed with GM potatoes. The research will appear in The Lancet after being seen by three sets of experts. It is believed to show that the laboratory rats developed a thickening of their stomach linings, which became inflamed. This is likely to spark new concern about GM foods. Dr Pusztai's reputation came under attack in August 1998 when he claimed GM food can weaken the immune system of rats, stunt their growth and damage their internal organs. He said he would not eat GM food after seeing the results of his tests. Dr Pusztai, then of the Rowett Institute in Aberdeen, had fed GM potatoes to the rats for 100 days in order to observe how it affected them. The potatoes were produced by the institute specially for the experiment, with similar modifications to those developed by commercial food producers to make crops resistant to pesticides. Within days of his comments, the 68-year-old scientist was suspended and eventually retired from the institute after his bosses said his evidence was ``misleading''. The institute said at the time: ``The institute regrets the release of misleading information about issues of such importance to the public and the scientific community.'' The British Government's chief scientific advisor Sir Robert May accused him of violating ``every canon of scientific rectitude''. Finally, in May this year, his work was criticised in a report by a committee of scientist at the Royal Society which said that ``no conclusions should be drawn'' from Dr Pusztai's work, which was ``flawed in many aspects of design, execution and analysis''. A spokesman for the British Government's GM Foods Unit last night told news media: ``Publication of research in The Lancet should ensure that it will receive the appropriate scrutiny and informed criticism from the scientific community. ``This is in line with the Royal Society's recommendation, with which the Government totally concurs. ``Research scientists should subject their findings to peer review before release into the public domain.'' The publication of such material will certainly add fuel to the already blazing fire of controversy on GM foods as well as focussing new concern on the position of some so-called experts. There will be questions asked about how so far limited research can spawn such widely opposed opinions and views on the existence or non-existence of GM food side effects.  Last night Friends of the Earth welcomed the publication of the study and called for more laboratory research. 
