food reviews
{  
    November 10 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/brendan-bites-26245346.html }
This week's special offer: anyone for a supermarket review? IT'S all restaurant review this and restaurant review that these days. But I've been thinking: most people's most regular interface with the retail food sector is buying food in supermarkets. And I've been thinking that we should start reviewing supermarkets. "The service was somewhat surly and the baskets slightly dirty, but overall the food was good and the prices reasonable. Their sausages were to die for." This arises from a charming email I had from a woman called Mary. Now Mary tells me that she likes to have a Marks & Spencer's curry with her daughter every Friday night. It is their little reward for eating well all week. I thought it was rather sweet and rather quaint in this godless world that the girls' big blow out at the weekend was an M&S curry. Mary has a chicken jalfrezi and her daughter has a chicken tikka masala. The innocence of it nearly made me cry. But Mary is angry. She tells me that Marks have made their pre-packed curries larger. She claims she now has to pay more for some extra curry that she doesn't really want. She doesn't want to eat the extra curry because she says the amount she currently eats "is about 20 Weightwatchers points as it is". In fact Mary reckons Marks are contributing to obesity. Furthermore, she doesn't like throwing the extra curry out because, like all women her age, she says she hates waste. Yeah, Mary, like some of us love it. Well, Mary, I've decided to play supermarket ombudsman this week and I've been on to Marks, who say they're very sorry but their market research shows that people wanted larger curry portions. I happen to know as well that Marks's new range of Indian food has been developed by the Michelin-starred chef Atul Kochar of Tamarind restaurant in London. So just think of it this way, Mary: some people pay hundreds of euros to be disappointed by Michelin-starred cooking at Thorntons. You're paying much less and your only problem is that the portions are too big. If I were reviewing supermarkets this week I would be encouraging you to go along to your local Superquinn store, where Irish Cheese Week is running from tomorrow. You can always be assured of a good mid-afternoon snacking session if you hit Superquinn at the right time, but for the next week you're guaranteed a selection of more than 80 Irish cheeses. You mightn't have been aware, but the Irish are complete cheese nerds. We make more than 100 varieties of cheese, which is more per capita than any other country in the world. You owe it to yourself to get out there and start trying them. brendanbites@unison.independent.ie Brendan O'Connor 
