food reviews
{  
    September 16 2012 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/our-battles-with-big-food-26898749.html }
Millions of people are lied to about the food they eat -- among the consequences of those lies is the rise in the levels of obesity. Food writer Trevor White argues that obesity is not just a question of personal responsibility, and politicians, food companies and experts are all failing to do their duty. Meanwhile his wife, and fellow food writer, Susan Jane White outlines how parents can make sensible choices about what their children eat Four hundred years ago, the average European ate less than a teaspoon of sugar a year. Today a quarter of Irish three-year-olds are obese or overweight. We consume more chocolate than anywhere else in the world. But the problem is not confined to Ireland. Diabetes, heart disease and certain forms of cancer are shooting up all over Europe. In the United States, one in three adults is obese. We worry about this. Indeed we are all concerned about our weight at some level, and in order to justify our choices we often tell ourselves fibs about food. For instance, I love salad. My wife says my favourite food is beer. But at least I don't lie about food to millions of people. In the food industry, government, academia and the media, that is exactly what happens every day. It is not an exaggeration to say that we are facing a public health crisis. Yet the official response of Big Food is confusing, to put it mildly: 'Eat! Go on, stuff your face -- and when you get a moment, stretch those legs.' That's right. By 2030, more than half of Irish adults will be obese, yet right now Big Food is engaged in a very expensive campaign to blame you for the problem. I find it truly remarkable that obesity is still framed as an issue of personal responsibility. This line seems plausible only because it is so familiar. We tolerated the same argument from Big Tobacco for decades, and it is demonstrably rubbish. After all, the incidence of obesity increases year after year. Were we any less responsible in 2011 than we were in 2010? Of course not. Blaming the victim is just an excuse to let industry off the hook. We all know that obesity used to be a sign of affluence. Today it's the other way around. If you want to find a fat cat, look for a slim white man. Meanwhile, working-class girls are 40 per cent more likely to be overweight than their peers in professional households. Posing as a friend of the poor, Big Food cuts the price of lunch, and look -- there's a special on diabetes. Thus the rich exploit the poor and the wheel of life keeps turning. When we talk about the food industry, we must also pay homage to the genius at the centre of the food world. I am referring to celebrity chefs who loudly rail against perceived injustices such as calorie labelling on menus, yet rarely decry the global impact of obesity. In railing against regulation, chefs like to think of themselves as macho rebels rather than stooges for Big Food. Good luck to them. After all, we live in an age of mass cultural obscenity. Teenagers advertise anti-wrinkle cream and pop stars are the new philosophers. Why should we be surprised that celebrity chefs are just useful idiots? Ireland has one of the highest levels of childhood obesity in the world. The fact that junk food is still advertised to children speaks to the success of Big Food's lobbying. In a civilised society, food manufacturers would be banned from promoting products that pose an unreasonable threat to anyone. Mind you, the real measure of a civilised society is how it treats its most vulnerable. Even cigarette companies were not allowed to advertise to children. Advertising is, of course, a major problem. Every time the British government spends a pound urging citizens to eat wisely, the top 10 food and drink brands spend £99 marketing their wares. Big Food is fighting tooth and nail to resist any efforts to ban advertising, as if self-regulation, token gestures and stretching those legs are a shrewd response to a looming epidemic. Cigarette companies invented similar wheezes to delay the inevitable: mass recognition that we have a responsibility to protect Irish children. More regulation around the marketing of junk food is essential. That won't happen unless we all start making a fuss. In the meantime, by putting the interests of Big Food before those of children, politicians let down the most vulnerable members of our society. More depressing still is the relationship between industry and academia. As Joanna Blythman reminds us in Bad Food Britain, many scientists are looking for research money, and a lot of that money comes with strings attached. One day, it will become obvious that the cost of treating the diseases of obesity is far greater than the right to peddle cheeseburgers and heavily sugared water. At that point the type of measures that led to a dramatic decrease in smoking will have to be introduced. In the meantime, our universities would do well to remember that history will judge them, too. And so to my colleagues in the press. I reviewed restaurants for nearly 15 years in Dublin, London and New York. Few men ate so much or so well for Ireland; it's hardly surprising that I became such a pompous bore. In fact, I got so high on food, I almost forgot that fat is a political issue. Thankfully, some people kept their eyes open. Here in Ireland, Darina Allen tackles the politics of food production with great courage. At the Sunday Independent, Susan Jane White -- the woman I am proud to call my wife -- is similarly forthright. In Britain, there are heroic figures such as Felicity Lawrence as well as Joanna Blythman, while America has Marion Nestle and Marc Bittman. Each deserves a bigger stage, yet ironically their influence is often over-stated by a guilty media. When broadsheet editors start to feel all clammy, they douse themselves in eau de Michael Pollan. Advertising pays the bills, which explains why food is so routinely trivialised in the media. And while there may well be a greater focus on food than ever before, it's fantasy food. Look, for instance, at restaurant criticism, a peculiar form of onanism in which the writer pleasures himself in public. Even self-styled foodies treat food as a branch of the entertainment industry. In doing so, they are complicit in a scandal that will eventually be exposed by resource shortages or crippling healthcare bills. In the meantime, journalists who lavish attention on celebrity chefs become stooges for Big Food. Each time they write about the size of a chef's ego, they miss an opportunity to expose an even bigger scandal. Even when the media does focus on food production, it is with a facile determination to miss the point. We will ponder, for example, the pros and cons of organic food, which constitutes less than 5 per cent of food consumed in this country. Whose interests does it serve to ignore the far more obvious fact that the vast majority of the food we eat is heavily processed junk? Let's be honest. Talking about food and popular culture without addressing the scandal of mass obesity is like pretending that global warming is a left-wing conspiracy. It may well make for more amusing conversation, but after a while it starts to sound downright stupid. The Irish consumer is addicted to sugar. Self-regulation of food marketing has not worked, cheap food is only cheap in the short term, and far more government intervention is needed to tackle the obesity crisis. These inconvenient truths are still denied by many powerful forces, but time is running out. We put heavy taxes on cigarettes and alcohol in an effort to limit usage, and to help pay for the damage they create. There is a growing awareness that junk food should be targeted in exactly the same way, with tax revenues ring-fenced to make healthier foods more affordable. Do I think we will see that day? Only with your help. That's the thing these food companies never quite understand. And it's the best weapon we have. We are moral creatures. Moral creatures who are not responsible only to ourselves. For the sake of our children, and for the sake of children not yet born, we must beg our politicians to exercise some real leadership. Enough already. Enough denial. Enough pathological lies. In government, academia, industry and the media, it's time to tell the truth about food. Trevor White Sunday Indo Living 
