food reviews
{  
    June 18 2012 10:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/lifestyle/help-for-small-businesses-who-have-been-turned-down-credit-27257261.html }
Q. I own a small, specialised food store and recently applied for a term loan to help fund the expansion of my business, but was turned down. I know that securing credit is difficult at the moment, but is there anything I can do to persuade my bank to review their decision? A. It's extremely frustrating to have your plans for growth curtailed by lack of funding. However, there is an option available for businesses such as yours who have had loan requests declined by their bank. The Credit Review Office was established to provide a simple, independent review process for small businesses and farmers who have been refused loans by their bank. They will also examine cases where borrowers have been offered a smaller loan than requested, had existing credit facilities reduced or removed or been offered loans with terms and conditions attached which mean the loan could not reasonably be accepted. The review process covers applications to participating banks for credit from €1,000 up to €500,000, and can only be applied for once you have made an unsuccessful appeal through your bank's own internal channels. Further details on which banks are involved and eligibility criteria can be found at www.creditreview.ie. There is a fee of €1 per thousand of the loan request for the service, with a minimum charge of €100 and a maximum charge of €250. To start the process, you must complete an application form, which is available online. You will need to provide some basic information on what your business does, who runs it, why the lending should be approved and why your business is a viable proposition going forward. Once complete, you should forward the form directly to the Credit Review Office by email or post. They will then contact you to confirm your eligibility for review and to arrange payment. You will also need to sign a brief legal agreement so that they can access information relating to the loan application which is held confidentially between you and your bank. The Credit Review Office will confirm the facts of the case with your bank and ask them why your credit application was declined. The bank's response will be copied to you, and you'll have the opportunity to comment. The case will then be assessed by an independent credit underwriter and you will receive a letter detailing the outcome. If the Credit Review Office feels that the loan could have been made within acceptable risk boundaries, the bank must comply with this decision or explain why not. Although the Credit Review Office does not have any statutory or regulatory powers, in practice, banks have respected the opinion of the reviews and complied with the decisions. It's also worth noting that according to a recent report published by the head of the Office, the decision of the banks not to lend or to withdraw credit facilities was reversed in 54% of cases so far. Before you make a finance application, make sure you have a sound business plan with solid cash flow forecasts and that you can demonstrate your ability to comfortably repay the loan. If you can prove the viability of your business, you will have a far better chance of securing the funds you need to grow and expand successfully. 
