food reviews
{ Ian O'Doherty 
    May 21 2017 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/ian-odoherty/when-critics-are-a-recipe-for-disaster-35731793.html }
Ever see one of those cases where you wished both parties could lose? Well, there's a perfect example of that currently rumbling in the UK. Talk to any restaurateur or people involved in the hospitality industry and they will tell you that the bane of their life isn't bad reviews, but bad critics. Even though the most waspish of food critics, such as the late AA Gill, are feared by many owners, they're also respected. After all, most critics have been involved in the industry in some guise and both know and love their food. That's why they're given an expense account to go out and critique what they eat. You might not like them or agree with their reviews - but they are experts who have earned their position. On the other hand, online reviewers for sites like TripAdvisor are despised and rightly so. While many people use these sites as a sort of electronic guest book, leaving a quick comment and nothing more, other people - you just know they call themselves 'citizen reviewers' - seem to go out of their way to be supremely horrible to the establishment they ate in, usually with the expectation that they will make a name for themselves. English woman Sarah Gardner doesn't fall into that latter category, but she did write a negative review of a restaurant in Tunbridge Wells, although she couldn't have predicted the response. When the owners of High Rocks saw the negative remarks - rude staff, mediocre food, but nothing out of the ordinary - they sent her a 12-page legal letter, threatening her with jail and even including a mocked-up court summons, presumably in case she wasn't sufficiently freaked enough. It would be easy enough to laugh - okay it is easy enough to laugh - at the folly of a hypersensitive manager engaging m'learned friends in the UK, but we've had several similar examples here in Ireland. Frankly, I prefer the old-school approach. A friend of mine used to work as a restaurant critic - not at this paper, I hasten to add - and he wasn't shy about sharing his opinions. One day, as we were getting the edition out, security called the newsdesk - the chef from a place he had trashed was downstairs and wanted to talk to him. Not only that, but he was angry and an angry chef is a scary chef. Our hero did what every brave hack does in those circumstances - he pretended to be out and used the back entrance for the rest of the week. So, would I prefer a world where irate chefs turn up at the door demanding blood - or just send a legal letter? Gimme the knife-wielding chef any day of the week - although my mate stopped reviewing restaurants after that, saying it was too dangerous. Indo Review 
