food reviews
{ Aideen Sheehan  Consumer Affairs Correspondent 
    January 15 2009 06:33 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/food-firms-must-test-for-dioxins-26505860.html }
FOOD businesses in Ireland will be expected to test for dioxins in meat products in future, the Food Safety Authority of Ireland (FSAI) said yesterday. FSAI Deputy Chief Executive Alan Reilly told an Oireachtas Agriculture Committee looking into last month's pork contamination scare that Ireland historically had very low dioxin levels in the environment and in food, but its low-risk assessment would have to be reviewed. "From now on, the FSAI would expect dioxins to be a hazard that is actively controlled in meat and meat products by ... supplier control and testing by food business operators," he said. Defending the proportionality of the total recall of Irish pork products, Mr Reilly said dioxins could cause cancer, disruption of the reproductive and immune systems, and damage to the skin in humans, and the more of them you put in your body, the greater the risk. "Are we going to expose our children to these levels," he said. People would not want to buy Irish pork containing 200 times the legal limit for dioxins when they could buy a competitive product below the legal threshold, he added. The FSAI concluded that ongoing exposure to the level of dioxins found in Irish pork during the crisis would have put consumers' health at risk. The European Food Safety Authority calculated that the concentration of dioxins in the human body could have increased by 10pc for an average consumer during the limited timescale of the incident, which affected Irish pork from September to December 2008. Dr Claudia Heppner of EFSA told the committee that, as effective measures had been taken, they considered this increase was of no concern. People who ate large amounts of contaminated pork throughout the period would not necessarily suffer adverse health effects, she added. Mr Reilly stressed that the FSAI's remit extended from the farm gate onwards, with animal feed controls and inspections the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture. Fine Gael Agriculture spokesman Michael Creed asked if a single agency should have control over the entire food and feed industry. Mr Reilly said that might be one of the topics considered in a review of the incident. The reason all Irish pork had to be withdrawn was that it was it impossible to distinguish between contaminated and uncontaminated pork at slaughterhouses, despite full traceability of individual pigs before slaughter, he added. The legislation could be amended to require full traceability but there would be likely to be a cost involved, he said. Committee Chairman Johnny Brady said the committee would produce its report on the scare in the coming weeks. 
