food reviews
{  
    February 20 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/what-does-food-minister-do-26097408.html }
THE new Minister with responsibility for Food is Noel Davern. Not a shocking move, given that Minister Davern has been in the Department of Agriculture and has held the rural development brief. His job will be taken on by Eamonn O Cuiv and that promotion may make for interesting delegations from the west to Kildare Street especially over the contentious issue of destocking on commonages. Mary Coughlan moves into Eamonn O Cuiv's previous job, It is worth reflecting on what the role of a Junior Minister is. While Minister for Food, Ned O'Keeffe undertook three significant tasks. He established the Food Industry Review Group, which looked at the future direction of the Irish food industry and its findings fed into the National Development Plan. The establishment and report from the group was an important function and its impact will linger when the dust eventually settles on the political row over Ned's departure. He also established the Quality Assurance Review Group to look at the plethora of quality assurance schemes and try and establish their usefulness or otherwise. While Minister, Ned O'Keeffe went on record in declaring that many of the voluntary quality assurance schemes were not worth the paper they are written on. Lastly, Minister O'Keeffe established an inter-agency co-ordination group. He was of the view that there were too many agencies servicing the industry and it might be better served with a single agency. The work of this group is ongoing. A Dail committee will investigate whether Ned O'Keeffe has a case to answer or not. His present difficulties arose because pigs on his family farm were being fed, perfectly legally, meat and bone meal. It has taken a long time for the opposition to as he would put it himself "get his head," though even his "own" people were part of that plot. From the standpoint of serving the farming/food industry, his biggest failing was to think that there was no conflict between his public utterances on quality assurance schemes and his private performance on the matter in terms of practices on his home farm. If feeding meat and bone meal as okay for the O'Keeffe farm, then all pig producers should have had the benefit of its inclusion in rations, given that it provides a cost advantage. The bottom line is this. Is it good enough for politicians to simply operate on the basis of "do as I say, but not as I do"? Promoting quality assurance schemes as Food Minister demanded private adherence to the schemes being promoted, otherwise the schemes themselves become a sham. For that reason alone, the resignation was probably late in coming. 
