food reviews
{  
    November 01 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/report-mirrors-huge-changes-within-the-organisation-25954497.html }
THE change in format of the annual report coincides (probably intentionally, or maybe not) with the restructuring of Teagasc itself. As Director Jim Flanagan points out in his review: "Agriculture has undergone a period of change and it was recognised that Teagasc needed to reorganise in order to support the industry into the future. In 2004, Teagasc planned and implemented a reorganisation of its management structure to provide an overall improved service to its stakeholders." Among the changes he mentions is the move of Head Office from Sandymount Avenue in Dublin to Oakpark House in Carlow in September 2004. "A significant number of staff opted for Voluntary Early Retirement and the main task after the move was to establish an improved structure for the main administration functions - Finance, Human Resources and IT - through an extensive recruitment process." Food research was restructured in 2004 into a single directorate with Dr Liam Donnelly as head. Substantial development of the facilities at Teagasc's two food centres at Ashtown, Dublin, and Moorepark were undertaken to equip them to service the research and training needs of the food industry. In 2004, the Teagasc research programme continued its focus on the development and dissemination of critical technologies for the development of an internationally competitive agri-food sector. The organisation also started a process of reorganising agriculture research, under the direction of Dr Seamus Crosse, into four programme areas: Animal Science, Crop Science, Environment and Land Use and Rural Research. The aim is to establish centres of excellence based around research teams of critical mass. Advisory services "The rapidly changing environment facing the agri-food industry prompted Teagasc to re-examine its advisory service in order to better meet the needs of its farmer clients and the agri-food industry in general," says Mr Flanaghan. The service has been re-organised into a national structure, with Pat Boyle as head. It was decided to reduce the 28 county units to 18 management units to facilitate the creation of critical mass for the delivery of the service, to promote specialisation and improve office facilities. A new Programme Management structure was established with the appointment of programme leaders in Dairying, Drystock, Tillage, Rural Development, Farm Management and Technology, and Environment. Training/Development The Training and Development Directorate, set up under Donal Carey, began a process of change which is required if Teagasc is to meet the needs of a rapidly changing sector. A review of the Education and Training Programmes was commissioned from the Education and Training Forum under the Chairmanship of Professor John Coolahan. Capital investment Teagasc continued a programme of capital investment to support some of its key future objectives. The main projects were the refurbishment of Oakpark House and facilities at Kinsealy, the completion of the Animal and Food Bio-Sciences Centre at Moorepark and IT investment throughout the organisation. Outlook With the new structures now largely in place, development in the next couple of years will focus on implementing programmes to meet the development needs of the rapidly changing agriculture and food industries, says Mr Flanagan. 
