food reviews
{ Graham Clifford 
    December 17 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/the-tree-cost-10-which-was-a-lot-but-it-brings-some-sort-of-normality-at-christmas-making-it-through-the-festive-season-in-direct-provision-36409439.html }
From Banjiri African falafel to Red Cow and mung bean stew, and banana and coconut balls with strawberry coulis; this was a menu you don't see every day on the banks of the Liffey. But this week people gathered at the Our Table Christmas Pop-Up event in Dublin's Smithfield to eat, discuss, and take time to think about those thousands of people in Ireland for whom such dishes are unattainable. Of course, there was laughter and joy at the event, but at its core was a serious issue as Our Table co-founder Ellie Kisyombe (pictured on cover), caught in the Direct Provision system for the last seven years, tells me. "You know Christmas is the most difficult time for so many families in Direct Provision," she says. "They have so little and are away from their homes because they felt they had no other choice but to leave. And, of course, they can't prepare their own food. It's painful and the Our Table project aims to 'facilitate change through conversation over food'. 
Close
 Waiting game: For many parents living in Direct Provision, it can be hard telling their children that Santa may not come to them / "Asylum seekers in Ireland are not allowed to cook, also we're still not allowed to work. People are not able to pass their culinary skills to their own children due to not having space in which to cook." The three-course meal at the Our Table event was priced at €43.20 - double the weekly allowance a person living in Direct Provision receives. Ellie, from Malawi, explains: "Everyone has their own way of using that €21.60. But I don't think it lasts anybody, how can it?" Funds raised at the Our Table event will go towards a new café, which Ellie hopes they can open on a permanent site. A 'normal' Christmas Around the country families in Direct Provision do what they can to make some kind of 'normal' Christmas for themselves and their children. In Cork, Jane found a tree in a discount supermarket. It sits in the corner of the bedroom she shares with her six-year-old son and four-month-old baby girl. In an adjoining room in the Direct Provision centre where the family have lived since March are her 10-year-old and eight-year-old boys. The tree is artificial, much like the state of limbo the family find themselves in. "The Christmas tree means a lot. It's ours. We make our own decorations to put on it. I searched and searched until I found it. It cost €10, which was a lot for us, but at least it brings some sort of normality at Christmas," says the young mother who tells me she was forced to flee Nigeria with her family when a religious feud escalated in her home place. "We were told if we didn't convert to another local religion we'd be in serious trouble. I was pregnant and scared. So we left, not really knowing where we'd end up. And now… we're here," she says, her voice trembling. She and her family are safe now… but life in their Direct Provision centre is difficult - especially at Christmas time. In school, her sons sit beside boys who tell them of their long wish lists for Santa. Jane tells me that while her eldest son doesn't talk too much about their plight, he understands Christmas will be different for his family. A profitable business "I know he really wants a bicycle but he's a good boy. He doesn't ask for it," she says. Jane knows, for her children's sake, she must continue to wear a smile this Christmas. "I keep telling them 'I love you, I love you' and I make sure to always be positive, to always smile. When the door closes and they go off to school, I can then be alone with my baby… and my thoughts," she says. Jane, and her young family, are amongst the almost 5,000 people living in 33 Direct Provision centres across the state today. Of those, around 385 are children under the age of four and around 650 are aged between five and 12. It's estimated that as many as 60pc of those in these centres come from Christian-faith backgrounds where Christmas would have been celebrated before they arrived on Irish shores. "We would always have had celebrations on Christmas Day at home," explains Jane. "Families would get together. We are Catholic and would go to Mass, we'd have special food afterwards and exchange gifts… but that was before." Of the 33 Direct Provision centres here, seven are state-owned while 26 are run by private contractors. It's a profitable business. Last year alone, the state paid €43.5m to eight direct provision operators including Aramark, the American food giant company, which now own the Avoca chain in Ireland. Figures published by the Department of Justice show that two of the private contractors, Mosney Holidays and East Coast Catering, each received fees in excess of €7m in 2016. When contacted by the Review this week, many of the Direct Provision centre managers we spoke to told us that they make an extra effort to cater for residents at Christmas. Some, such as Globe House in Sligo, which can take 200 residents, confirmed they hold a dedicated day of Christmas celebrations each year where they convert their community hall to build a grotto where all children can visit Santa and be given a present. They host the Sligo Gospel Choir, have a DJ to play music and provide food and treats for the residents. The children in the centre are asked to decorate the trees and they host a 'Globe House has Talent' competition. The centre is decorated and similar efforts are made during other important religious dates - such as during the Muslim festival of Eid. Others, such as Ashbourne House in Glounthane, Cork wrap gender and age-specific gifts for the children on Christmas Eve. "The mothers come down after the children have gone to sleep and bring the gifts to their rooms so that on Christmas morning they have something to give to the children when they wake," the manager tells me. On Christmas Day itself, a turkey dinner will be provided for residents in Glounthane but at other centres, it's business as usual - just another day. Indeed, many of those campaigners who work with residents in Direct Provision centres told me that on December 25, the centres can be quieter than usual as staff want to be at home with their own families. For Maria from Nigeria, this will be the first time in almost a decade that she can look forward to and enjoy Christmas. We meet in a café on a cold winter's evening with festive music chiming along in the background. For six-years she lived in a Direct Provision centre in Cork where she had both of her children, now aged 10 and eight. An isolating system "I think this is the first Christmas that I can enjoy since I came to Ireland. For years I hated it, I absolutely hated it because it just made me feel so sad. It was so tough where I was. "No effort was made to celebrate Christmas in any meaningful way. Unless you've been through it, and felt the isolation at this time of year, I don't think you can understand how awful it is." The fact that residents in almost all of the Direct Provision centres in Ireland cannot prepare their own food makes it especially difficult on Christmas Day, Maria tells me. "Food is important, especially on a day such as Christmas Day," she says. "Every culture has their own dishes for occasions such as this, turkey in Ireland and so on. But we were never allowed to cook, never allowed something as basic as our own type of food at Christmas. Why? It was cruel and demeaning." Today in her house in a town on the outskirts of Cork city, Maria can give her children a traditional Nigerian meal. "We can buy some things from the African shops and Santa Claus will come," she says. On Christmas Days in the centre where Maria and her children lived, residents would try to gather in one bedroom to conduct "some sort of celebration". "We would sing, dance, maybe play music. Just try to do something for each other. But every Christmas there were many doors which did not open. People would be inside crying all day. They would be thinking of their families and about the situations they found themselves in. "Direct Provision breaks people and at Christmas they feel it especially. Even if you are sent a Christmas card by your family at home, it's difficult to look at because it reminds you of how alone you are." Her eldest child still recalls Christmas in the Direct Provision centre. "At the time she was in crèche, and would come home saying the other children were talking about presents and wondered if Santa would come to her. He never did." Review learned that many of the parents living in Direct Provision visit charity shops in the weeks leading up the Christmas in an attempt to buy some small gift for their children. "They just want to have some basic dignity. To be able to tell the other people in the centre that 'look, I bought this for my son or daughter'," says Maria who is a member of the Pentecostal Christian religion. Ironically since being granted permission to remain in Ireland, Maria has completed a post-graduate diploma in social policy and hopes to begin a masters in social work next year. Her plan is to help others in a country which, she feels, doesn't always help those most in need. For those wishing to attend a religious service on Christmas Day itself, most will make their way to the nearest church. As many Direct Provision centres are located in towns and cities themselves, this isn't generally a problem as the places of worship are all within walking distance. But for a number of centres, such as the Kinsale Road accommodation centre in Cork, some form of transport will be needed to bring people into the city to attend Mass. Some residents I spoke to, at such centres, said it wasn't clear if a bus would be laid on to bring them to worship with their families. Marcus is preparing to spend his second Christmas in a Direct Provision centre in the midlands. "Yes the centre throws a party where Santa comes," he tells me. "Many volunteers come and give of their time and people donate gifts for which my wife and I are so grateful. We have one daughter who is nearly four. "We want to say to those kind people who try to help us out 'please take us with you, take us away from this place. We are wasting our lives here, we are broken-hearted at Christmas'." As Jane waits for her children to come through the door of her bedroom with news of school Christmas shows and about what their friends are getting from Santa Claus, she checks herself in the mirror to make sure there's no sign of tears. She practices smiling and opens the door where her children melt into her arms. As she and so many others wait in the hope of gaining residency, it is all she can do. "Getting through Christmas with nothing is going to be so hard. Especially when we know that outside the gates of this place, people have so, so much." * Names have been changed LIFE UNDER DIRECT PROVISION * Personal allowances of €21.60 per adult and €21.60 per child per week are given by the State. * At the end of 2016, 348 people had been in the Direct Provision system for seven years or more. A total of 98 had been in it for six to seven years. * Around 50 new applicants arrive in Ireland every week. * Last month, the Government announced asylum seekers will be allowed to work with access to the labour market no later than nine months after an asylum application has been lodged. * Three meals are provided at set times each day in most Direct Provision centres - residents have no right to cook for themselves. * Residents live in shared accommodation, with some sharing rooms with people of different backgrounds, nationalities and languages. * The Direct Provision system has attracted wide-scale criticism from human rights groups including Amnesty International. Indo Review 
