food reviews
{ Paul McNeive 
    November 24 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/tablet/commercial-property/subject-to-contract-clause-must-not-be-used-lightly-or-taken-lightly-35239560.html }
'Subject to contract' is probably the most commonly-used phrase in agents' correspondence, and used as a 'catch-all', where agents want to avoid binding their clients or getting caught up in legal disputes surrounding a deal. But use of the phrase is so frequent that agents and clients can become blasé about its implications and about that dangerous period between agreeing a deal and getting contracts signed. I was reminded of this by a recent dispute surrounding a UK office building, owned by a group of private investors. A five-yearly rent review (upwards only) was due and the tenant was claiming the existing rent was too high. The tenant had an option to break from the lease, coincident with the review date, and was threatening to exercise that. With the rent review proving difficult to settle, all the owners received letters from the tenant's agent, formally exercising the break clause. The landlord's agent contacted the owners and advised them not to acknowledge that letter. The latest date for exercising the break clause passed and the landlord's agent then argued with the tenant that their notice to break the lease was invalid because the agent's letter said that it was 'subject to contract', and there was no contract. After a stand-off, the tenant agreed to remain in the property and was granted a new future-break option. This dispute highlights another grey area as to how far agents should go with contractual correspondence, and in binding their clients, or not, before passing matters to solicitors. This era of agents acting as asset managers and receivers, further amplifies the issue. Generally, 'subject to contract' is used where the agent does not want his correspondence to be held by a court as forming a contract, or part of a contract. Some firms also add 'subject to contract' to their sales brochures. The reason for this is that where I offer you €10,000 for your car, and you accept it, we have created a contract and a court could force either of us to perform the contract, if we changed our minds. However, where property is concerned, where two parties agree a sale or letting, a court will not enforce that contract, unless the terms are in a signed contract. The exception to this is where there is no contract signed but there is enough other evidence to convince a judge there was a firm agreement - for example, correspondence between an agent and his client. Another example is where one or other party does something that convinces a judge that there was a deal, such as the purchaser moving goods into the property before signing. Agents need to be careful about this as they usually control the keys. I learned this lesson the hard way as a young agent when I sold a warehouse. Before contracts were signed, the purchaser borrowed the keys to show their builder around and packed the building with barrels of chemicals. Inexperienced clients are often confused about the period before contracts are signed. The purchaser may have paid a booking deposit, but that has no legal force and either party can still renege on the deal. If another party makes a higher offer, the agent has a duty to pass it on to the client. Whilst it may be morally wrong, some clients will drop the original purchaser. This is the last thing the agent wants, as they have done their job, their reputation suffers, and the extra fee earned from the slightly higher price is insignificant. Agents, vendors and purchasers need to take care in deciding when it is appropriate to use the phrase 'subject to contract', and to understand the nuances of the protection it provides. Growing the Food And Drinks Business I was delighted to visit Bord Bia's HQ on Tuesday to speak to a group of entrepreneurs in the food and drink industry. 'Food Works' is a collaboration between Bord Bia, Enterprise Ireland and Teagasc to nurture innovative, export orientated food entrepreneurs. Darina Mulligan told me 'Food Works' provides an intense programme to support and accelerate high-potential and ambitious food start-ups. Indo Business 
