food reviews
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    December 14 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/books/book-reviews/article38779035.ece }
For Christmas, Bunny's husband gives her a new novel that's been gushingly reviewed by all the right people. Noting that he's never bought a book that she liked in their entire marriage, she flings it across the room "with some serious force behind it". Long-suffering readers who have ever fallen for publishers' guff about the next big thing will know that feeling well.  What makes the business of reading new novels worthwhile is the pleasure that comes from the unexpected discovery of a hitherto unfamiliar writer whose entire catalogue one instantly wants to devour. This is US author Binnie Kirshenbaum's seventh novel, and her first in a decade. Never having heard of her before simply amplified the joy of reading it. It begins in January, with Bunny in a psychiatric ward with those she regards as "lunatics". Patients are expected to join group activities, but, missing her cat, the only thing she wants to do is spend time with the therapy dog as promised on the noticeboard, only the dog is never there. "The sorrow I experience about the dog not showing up is way out of proportion to the fact of it, but that is why I'm here, isn't it? Because the sorrow I feel about everything is bigger than the thing itself?"  To answer the question of what brought her to this place, the novel goes back to New Year's Eve, when Bunny, the unsuccessful author of five novels, is woken from her sleep on the couch by the aforementioned husband, a zoologist called Albie who's having an uncomplicated affair with a woman at work, and reminded that they're going out that night. Albie's presence feels to her "like a plastic bag over her head", but then she hates everything and is "interested in nothing".  Food has no flavour. She sleeps all day. She hasn't changed her clothes for a week, and no longer remembers the name of novels she loves or how old she was when her father died.  "Bunny's pain has no place," Kirshenbaum writes. "She hurts everywhere. She hurts nowhere. Everywhere and nowhere, hers is a ghostly pain, like that of a phantom limb. Where there is nothing, there can be no relief." Bunny doesn't want to die, but she doesn't want to be alive either. She doesn't even choose to describe what she's experiencing as depression, though she knows that's what it is. To call it suffering seems to her "melodramatic and self-aggrandising" when there are people in the world with cancer. Bunny sees it as a  kind of self pity, but that doesn't make it stop. In the circumstances, the prospect of spending the last day of the year with friends that she doesn't even like is unlikely to end well. Bunny wants to go out because she's "trying to be normal", but admits: "If I have one more delightful dinner with delightful people engaging in delightful conversation, I am going to scream. I am going to scream and scream and never stop. I will die screaming."  Bunny and Albie belong to a recognisable artsy New York upper middle-class milieu. Their friends write restaurant reviews and sit on the boards of small museums. These people, with their narcissistic snobbery and achingly liberal attitudes, are gloriously drawn and satirised, not entirely without sympathy.  They mean well, but, by the end of the evening, it's apparent to everyone that Bunny needs help. The second half of the novel follows the first few weeks in the psychiatric ward to which she's sent to get better.  From The Yellow Wallpaper to The Bell Jar, there is a long literature of female mental illness into which Rabbits for Food fits seamlessly, though the novel, whilst always bleakly funny, does lose some focus as it shifts out from Bunny's inner life to a broader cast of characters. Predictably, she doesn't have much time for her fellow patients, and, when her husband gently suggests that she shouldn't refer to them so disparagingly, she replies: "You can't call them squirrels and psychos, but it's okay if I do it, because I'm one of them."  She tries to act normally here, too, by going through the motions day to day - eating, showering, taking creative writing classes - but can't get out because her very presence there means that she isn't of sound mind and is therefore not capable of making that decision rationally. The ending comes suddenly, with no resolution, but its indeterminacy feels true to the reality of Bunny's condition. What's admirable about the novel is that it resists the temptation to peddle easy explanations for her distress.  There is nothing actually wrong with Bunny. She is simply experiencing what she calls, in one of her writing exercises, the "excruciating ache of wistful regret that comes with a perfectly nice life." As she notes early on: "I'm not special, which is one of the things that about kills me from the hurt of it."  Since the central character is called Bunny, and the author's name is Binnie, one might wonder whether this book is semi-autobiographical; but reducing novels to a form of dramatised memoir is to make them banal, and there's a richer satisfaction in knowing nothing about a writer, except what they themselves have chosen to put on the page. Every one of these pages is written with fluid grace and uncompromising truth. That there are six further novels by Binnie Kirshenbaum to now discover is the icing on this Christmas cake. If a loved one buys any of them as a gift, don't fling it across the room. Indo Review 
