food reviews
{  
    May 30 2011 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/real-life-new-menus-are-a-recipe-for-disaster-26737784.html }
PUTTING calorie counts on the menu doesn't, on the face of it, seem like the kind of thing to set fur and feathers flying. But restaurateurs in Ireland are already squaring up to new calorie-posting proposals, claiming the initiative is an "unworkable" concept which would cause a bureaucratic nightmare for restaurants, change menus into 70-page journals and turn chefs into regulatory inspectors of their own food. For somebody like Professor Donal O'Shea, the country's leading obesity expert, however, it's a no-brainer. He sees calorie posting as a necessary strategy in the battle to tackle a problem that is rapidly getting out of control. "I think if you have a condition that's killing between 5,000 and 6,000 people a year in the country, obesity, you should be drafting emergency legislation and not putting it on the long finger. "You should say 'this is a good idea, it makes sense, let's just do it,'" he declares, pointing out that it's already been signed into law in the USA. Initially introduced in some New York restaurants in 2008, where a study by Stanford Graduate School of Business found it led to a six per cent reduction in calories per transaction, calorie posting is expected to be rolled out in an estimated 200,000 chain restaurants across the USA by next year. Many will welcome the decision. According to New York Health Commissioner Thomas Farley, 25pc of customers who see calorie counts use them in choosing food, usually purchasing 100 calories less per meal as a result, while the Stanford study found that calorie posting leads consumers to buy fewer food items, and to switch to lower calorie options. O'Shea, who is leading the campaign to have calorie posting introduced here, insists that to be effective, calorie counts must be written on menus and menu boards in the same font and be placed beside the price of the item. "When your eye hits the price it hits on the calorie content of the meal or snack," he declares, adding that it's not enough for the information to be made available on the restaurant website or on tray liners. In Ireland, he believes, calorie posting should initially happen in restaurant chains with more than five outlets -- it's required for chains with more than 15 outlets in the States -- gradually becoming the norm for all restaurants.  Nutrition The well-known Subway chain has been making nutrition information, including calorie counts, salt, fat and sugar per six-inch sub, available for its advertised salad and sub ranges in its 1,500 stores in Ireland and the UK for almost two years. The information is displayed on the glass counter front in all stores as well as on the website, while additional information for different breads, sauces and optional extras of cheese and bacon is provided on its website. "The Subway chain is currently conducting a trial in stores to establish the most effective way of displaying calorie information in-store for our customers. Once the trial has been completed, we will review our position on providing calorie information in alternative locations within our stores," said a spokesperson for the organisation. Putting calories on menus hammers home the message to a percentage of people, says O'Shea. "It raises awareness for a certain percentage of people," says the consultant endocrinologist, who, at time of writing, was due to meet the Minister for Health for the second time on the calorie posting proposal. "The minister is keen to expedite it," he says. O'Shea readily admits that like any single initiative, calorie posting will achieve little on its own, but believes that in tandem with other similar initiatives it has the potential to be extremely effective. "It's a piece of the jigsaw that the Americans have decided is critical -- the US sees people are increasingly eating out of the home and therefore need to be aware of what they are eating. "We will inevitably go the same way. If you know your portion of chicken wings is 1,000 calories, you're more likely to share it rather than have a portion each. "Knowing the calorie content informs you," he declares, adding that the provision of calorie counts should run alongside strategies such as clear food labelling and education about nutrition. Currently, according to the Department of Health, there is no legislative basis in this country requiring restaurants or other food outlets to show the calorific content of the foods served, so it's uncertain how Irish consumers would respond to such a move. Reaction from US customers was mixed after calorie posting was introduced in the New York outlets of fast food chain Wendy's, says Denny Lynch, Senior Vice President, Communications. "After it was introduced our customers noticed it for the first week or two, then it became like wallpaper. Some customers complimented us on the fact that the calorie counts were present," he says, adding, however, that others were confused by the extra set of numbers on the menu board -- some thought the prices had changed.  Studies It doesn't appear to have had any effect on sales or customer choices, he says. "We haven't done any studies on it, but, for example, our sales of French fries were the same before and after the introduction of this initiative. It would not have a great influence on certain choices or sales." From a logistics point of view, he says, it is "cumbersome" to manage. "We are a restaurant, we change our menu items frequently. Our food is made in the restaurant. "Our food is customised to how the customer wants it and this can affect the calorie count so there can be difficulties when you're making food to order. "We have products that come on and off the menu, so it's cumbersome to keep up with the regulations, but we can do it." Wendy's has a poster with comprehensive information near the cash register he says. "It includes all of the products and all of the ingredients and all of the nutrition information on fat, cholesterol, protein, fibre and calorie information," says Lynch, adding that Wendy's feels the poster gives more comprehensive information than a calorie count number. "We don't think the calorie number is the best solution. All of this information is available on our website so you can see all the nutrition there or on the poster near the cash register -- we're saying there's a better way to provide a more complete and accurate information on the poster." An assistant in one New York Starbucks outlet I spoke to said the initiative was popular with customers. "The customers do like it -- some of them are surprised to see what the calories really are. When we first introduced it, people were a bit surprised but I think they find it useful. Sometimes they look for something with a lower calorie base -- they really appreciate knowing it." It's expected that calorie posting will be rolled out to thousands of chain restaurants across America by next year, predicts Sue Hensley, senior vice-president of the US National Restaurant Association. "It will certainly be in place in 2012 and that means that calorie counts will be on all menus, menu boards and drive-thru boards for chains in about 200,000 restaurants across the United States. "There was widespread support within the industry to have this passed into law," she says, adding, however that there were concerns about the need to change the format of menus, menu-boards and drive-thru menu boards in a difficult economy. The Restaurant Association of Ireland is very concerned about the potential avalanche of red tape. "We will be opposing it because it is de facto unworkable for restaurants to implement a regime where you have to include calorie counts for every meal," says Chief Executive Adrian Cummins. He believes that if what he describes as a "burdensome" initiative is not stopped at EU level, it could be in force here within a matter of years. "The hotel and restaurant industry across Europe is totally opposed to it," he declares. "A draft declaration about allergen labelling has been circulated to member states and we feel that a calorie count for restaurants will be next.  Afraid "We're afraid that it will introduce a lot more red tape for restaurants, particularly those whose menus change regularly." Compliance could be easier for those chains which provide the same menu most of the time, he says, but for restaurants who change their menus regularly, it could be a nightmare. "The chef will now have to be a scientist and a nutritionist to identify the calories in each of the dishes." To evaluate the implications of such a law, the association, he said, carried out a pilot project in which an ordinary restaurant menu with a choice of 10 starters, eight main courses and seven desserts was adapted to meet requirements about ingredients and calorie counts for every meal. The menu ended up at 70 pages, he says, adding that the exercise was "a bureaucratic nightmare". "It's tough enough in the restaurant business at the moment. We don't need more red tape imposed on us." Health & Living 
