food reviews
{ Barry Egan 
    September 22 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/passion-of-a-glorious-gallic-chef-29596798.html }
French women don't get fat. Nor, for that matter, it appears does Raymond Blanc. 8.15am in Blarney, County Cork, and the internationally renowned Gallic gourmet motormouth and celebrated, Michelin-star chef is ordering his coffee in the cafe of Meadows & Byrne, and looking trim in a crisp white shirt. He doesn't look his 63 years. It is possibly all the talking that keeps him young. He never shuts up, the monologuing supremo prone to impassioned tangents in conversation, detours so meandering it's impossible to predict where they will go next, or indeed where they will end, if indeed they ever will end.  So much so that I almost missed my train. Raymond is possibly the most French  person I have ever met, or rather, experienced. He is a mixture of Eric Cantona in that ad for Kronenbourg and  your man in 'Allo, 'Allo!, but no less wonderful for it. "Ireland  zees ze most bootiful place, I fell so in ze lurrve..." is how he starts and he goes on to say  – I have removed the accent for ease of understanding – "Ireland is a such beautiful place. Many years ago, 20 years ago, maybe more, I nearly established my business in  Ireland. I had fallen so much in love with  Ireland. It came from the fishing and the Irish people, because I found in England, it was a little bit too class-led. Everything was about exclusivity." "Whereas here in Ireland," he continues,  "society was much more inclusive and I fell in love with it. If you are a nice bloke they will talk to you and they will give you a pint. In England, it is about where you went to school. I am  uneducated. So, great, great start!" he says with a laugh. To say Monsieur Blanc is a great cook is as factually accurate as saying Queen of France Marie Antoinette had her head chopped off on 16 October 1793. His restaurant, Le Manoir aux Quat'Saisons, in Great Milton, Oxfordshire, is world-famous, both for the food and the price. Jay Rayner put it all in context in his review in last Sunday's Observer: 'I once claimed I ate in lousy restaurants so you wouldn't have to. The circumstances today are subtly different. I ate at Raymond Blanc's Le Manoir aux Quat'Saisons because you never will. Granted, that's less selfless, but it is realistic. Look at the price: £400 for two. Cue outbreaks of words like "obscenity" and "shameless", and that's from my own family. To which I can only say go get angry about something that really matters, which does not include the way those lucky enough to have the surplus income choose to spend it. At this level Le Manoir's customers are buying memories, not a cure for rickets. The memories they are buying may not be those that you seek, but they suit others. Nobody chastises the bloke who, say, spends £500 on a weekend in Paris merely to watch the rugby. This is no different." Raymond – culinary sensation and star of many TV shows – was in Co Cork to launch his much-anticipated Raymond Blanc Kitchenware Collection at Meadows & Byrne in Blarney Woollen Mills, Blarney. Blarney Woollen Mills demi-goddess Freda Hayes had contacted him "about this idea. And I liked it very much. I am very excited about it. They are all involved in food here, they have created their own hotel. There is a lovely history behind this place. There is something real. Freda is a wonderful woman, a fine character..." Monsieur Blanc is something of a fine character himself. In fact, he is a force of nature. Trying to interrupt him when he is speaking would be like trying to combat a hurricane with a wind-cheater. "This business of celebrity chefs," he exclaims – in truth everything he says is an exclamation – "chefs have always been celebrities. From the 13th, 14th Century and probably from the caveman who could bring the food and cook it the best with fire would be the most popular guy around. "Think of Louis XIV – all the chefs working way back were celebrities, they were given houses, properties, titles, because the chef would make the name of the court. The court and its status was influenced by the kind of food and feast it would give its guests." I ask him how he wooed his Russian partner, and  fiancee, doctor Natalia Traxel, with whom he has been for 10 years. Did he  consciously cook her food that would attempt to affect her on a deep level? "To cook a very simple meal for anyone, they will love you for it. Truffles and scallops, not a heavy steak. You woo them completely. Of course! Food is one of the greatest ways to woo someone. A sculptor with his art, a musician with his music..." So what notes did he use in his music when he wooed Natalia? "I am not a specialist in wooing women, OK? I am not a womaniser, as such, but I have wooed a few women in my life. Firstly,  if you want to woo someone, you have to find more about themselves and what they like as a person." In an article in the Daily Express in August, Natalia was quoted as saying: "I turned down Silvio Berlusconi three times when I lived next door to him in Bermuda. When you mention the name Berlusconi anywhere in the world everyone knows who he is, but when you mention Raymond Blanc nobody knows him. I remind Raymond of this – when he gets too big for his shoes." Raymond attributes the love of food to the intriguing geography of his birthplace. Raymond, born on November 19, 1949, grew up in the Franche-Comte region of  eastern France: you have, he explains, the rugged  Jura mountains – "where the wine is being made and the pig is a god offered up to the Virgin Mary. On the other side you have the very elegant Burgundy with all the Chardonnay. So two great regions where food is truly important." Raymond's exalted culinary skills he inherited, he believes, from his mother and his grandmother, both of whom he describes as extraordinary cooks. "My grandmother, in particular, was a gifted cook," he says. I suggest that he learned about food by eating her food. "No. No. No. Lets start again!" he says with that magnificent haughty French froideur that soon changes to warmth. "I didn't eat her food! I grew her food! From the age of six, I earned my bread; that was working with my grandparents. My grandfather lost everything. He had a huge herd of cows, there was a disease. So they became keepers of this castle, more of a lovely bourgeois house, but...but it had a huge forest of its own for my adventures." It was in this walled forest that young Raymond developed, and nurtured, his imagination. "Everything grew here. Peach! Apricots! Grapes! Apples! Pears! Everything!" he rants excitedly. "That is where it started for me. My grandmother was an alchemist. She would do liqueur of milk. So I quickly started to understand the variety and the soil, and the whole, extraordinary, magical process of growing something. You understand the mood and cycle of the seasons and the soil. Of course I would be hunting, gathering all the time... It was the greatest learning ground you could possibly have." He says that  his father was a watch-maker in a factory. "He was a gifted man but he never dared. He came from working-class stock and he never dared. He had a real talent of creating [in] gold and he never dared and that man became a very miserable man, OK? I said to myself when I saw my father: 'I will find my talent. I will find my expression.' It was  really the most important part of my life, that moment, when I saw my father, very late in his life, was so depressed..." The fact that his father had Raymond and his four siblings to feed and clothe possibly had something to do with why he never dared. "Probably! Probably, yeah," concurs his famous son. "It would have been a huge gamble, but he had a talent," he adds of his father who is 92 years of age now. Raymond's mother is 91. Raymond describes the epiphany when he realised his destiny was in restaurants. "There was one moment!" he says. "I was 19 years of age. It was the most important moment of my life," he says. Raymond explains he was put into college to become a technical draftsman but hated it. One August night he was wandering in the centre of Besancon when he saw waiters in red jackets and glimpsed inside the restaurant. It was like he was put under a spell. "I thought I want to become a chef, I want to be the creator," he remembers. "That moment defined my life. I wanted to be the man who created the food." Alas, the proprietor of the restaurant didn't see it like that. The following day when Raymond went in and asked for the boss and said excitedly he wanted to be a chef, young Raymond was told he was too old. "And I was too old," he agrees. "Kids start at 13 and they work 16 hours a day ... " Raymond got a job as a cleaner in the restaurant instead – " the mirrors in the toilets were shining like Versailles" – then he became a glass-washer and then a waiter. "I was already reading books on food society, food history, politics, food sex, food science, food nutrition. Every single book. Reading! Reading. I was determined to get there. Not I might! I will!" Raymond had sufficient strength of character – or brass neck – to tell the head chef that his sauces were wrong. "I was lucky to have a good palette and I had very strong views about what was good and what was bad. I did the gravest mistake of looking at the chef as a colleague rather than my superior. The chef was a very tall man, a very dangerous man, a man who didn't suffer fools. I was so passionate about the food and I could taste his sauces and a bit too acid, too spicy. Sometimes I thought his sauces were too rich. A lot of butter and a lot of cream." The chef, he adds, would knock people down. So – plus ca change – when Raymond  told him his sauces were wrong, "he knocked me down." I say I heard he knocked Raymond's teeth out. "Completely. Two teeth! My jaw! Hospital! Everything! Then I got fired. The boss came to see me in hospital. So on that day I lost everything. My jaw. My teeth. My job. Then I was exiled to England. The boss was shouting at me  – and I was all wired up in the hospital bed and I could barely answer back to him –  shouting that  the chef put a roof over his head and his children's head,  'and you told him he couldn't cook!'" "I couldn't argue. He said I was very dedicated and I would succeed but not in France, because 'you have burnt your bridges'. He placed me in Rose in England. I was 22. That was the best thing that ever happened to me." Raymond's not-so-grand exile to England saw him on a £13-a-week job as a waiter at the Rose Revived in Oxfordshire. Not long after, he wooed  the boss's daughter, Jenny Colbeck. He and Jenny married in 1976. A year later the couple remortgaged their house to open Le Manoir aux Quat'Saisons but mounting business stress was to have an effect on the marriage, which ended in 1986. Raymond once told the Oxford Times: " I realised only though hindsight that a relationship needs as much love and care and nurturing as a beautiful dish, garden or hotel." Contrary to the cliche about the French nation seemingly being incapable of remaining faithful to their partners in marriage,  Raymond says he was never unfaithful to either of his two wives. "Absolutely true! True! I was a good Catholic as well. My mum's  parents were staunch, staunch Catholics. It is not too different to Ireland ... " Raymond married again, this time Hungarian beauty  Kati Cottrell. The pair split in the late 90s. He has two sons, Olivier and Sebastian, from his first marriage. "What I didn't want to do is to push them into my world and what I choose as a career," Raymond says of his grown-up boys. "I let them choose. I always wanted to give them the best education which I didn't have myself. I didn't do too bad," he laughs. "I am very proud of my sons. They are two lovely guys. They have honour. They are very creative. One did law – then he said he hated law, so he wanted to become an actor and then the other one wanted to become an actor as well. So they did that for a couple of years." Sebastian is now a director and producer. "He is only 31 but already he has three films," Raymond says proudly. "I am the  happiest papa." He is, also, happily, the most passionate man on the planet currently. "Food is everything!" he rants for about the zillionth time. "It is about love! It is about sharing! It is the produce. It is about creating the art of cooking." He takes a deep breath then he is off again. "It is about agriculture. It is about amazing, complex things," Raymond gushes, in yet another Gallic torrent of joie de vivre. "The gravest mistake we have done, both in Ireland, Wales, Scotland and England," he continues, "is to have reduced food to a mere commodity. And look at the bloody nightmare it causes. The multi-billion pound cost of choosing the wrong food – we are still number one on the chart for obesity in Europe and number one for diabetes and number one on cardiovascular disease. That's misery caused for a lot of people. The mistake is we have just reduced food to nothing – that it is just fuel that feeds you. No! Food connects with your village, with your health, with your well-being, how long you are going to live..." "Still today, like my early days in the kitchen,  I preach that there is nothing more beautiful than truly giving, than food," Raymond adds as my train goes without me. "Cooking is about creating an environment. I was completely – and still am – in love with what I am doing." For more information on Raymond Blanc and his new cookware range please visit www.raymondblanc.com. Le Manoir aux Quat'Saisons, Raymond's country house hotel offers one of Britain's greatest culinary experiences in its two Michelin stars restaurant. www.manoir.com Raymond Blanc cookware is available at Meadows & Byrne, Blarney Woollen Mills, Blarney, Co Cork. www.meadowsandbyrne.com Sunday Independent 
