food reviews
{ TRISH O'DEA 
    September 23 2010 02:25 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/pudding-party-turns-into-food-fest-27079928.html }
THE revitalisation of Ireland is going to come from the land, from our culture and tradition and our enormous tourism potential, award-winning artisan food producer Jack McCarthy said this week as Kanturk burst into carnival on a mild September evening. Jack and his son, Tim, were at the heart of a celebration of local food that welcomed 30 members of the Brotherhood of the Knights of the Black Pudding — la Confrerie des Chevaliers de Goute Boudin — to the town for food, feasting, fun and a bit of a sing-song at Ronnie's Bar. As crowds milled about and sampled a choice of the very best artisan food products this area has to offer, it became clear that there is something special happening in Kanturk at the moment. Last week, acclaimed author Jeremy MacDonogh had brought copies of his major new novel, 'The Last Irishmen', to Kanturk, in recognition of the fact that the critically acclaimed publication centres around Kanturk Castle and a fictionalised account of the MacDonogh/Carty family that lived there in the Brehonic period. Early literary reviews have begun a whispering campaign about a possible film/TV adaptation. On the streets on Wednesday evening, more history was being made as Joe and Hazel Bourke of Assolas launched Easy Entertaining — the first artisan food delivery business of its kind in the world. Utilising produce from renowned producers like the McCarthys, Ardrahan Cheese, Waterfall Farms, Old Mill Bank Smoke House and more, Hazel and Joe will cater for dinner parties, delivering exceptional quality food to your home, wrapped in recyclable wool packaging and stored at the perfect temperature. All you have to do is follow the easy instructions to finish off the cooking to enjoy an exceptional meal of the finest Irish produce. And among the accolades the McCarthy's received on Tuesday was a silver plaque marking the Georgia O'Keeffe Weekend, which takes place in Kanturk this coming Saturday and Sunday. The event marks the genealogical link between the town and the ancestors of, arguably, America's most famous ever female artist. The guests of honour on Tuesday evening, the world's greatest authorities on black pudding — which they call black gold — were delighted with the welcome they received in Kanturk, after they marched through town in their colourful ceremonial regalia. The group host annual international awards and McCarthy's were awarded a gold medal this year for their incredible whiskey and cream pudding — big in both size and flavour. Canadian historian and fraternity member Yves Landrey explained that, to achieve a great black pudding, "It is a matter of balance; the ingredients must be right, not too much fat, not too many spices." "Here in Ireland you have butchers who produce excellent black puddings," Yves continued, noting that the group's 50th anniversary celebrations, to be held in France, next year will have an Irish theme. As the celebrations continued into Tuesday night, Jack McCarthy told The Corkman: "In terms of Irish food and Irish culture, we have the best of everything in this district. Tonight is a celebration of that. This is the best food district in the world, and the best tourism district in the world, and it's up to us to go out and sell it." 
