food reviews
{ Louise Hogan and Tom McEnaney 
    January 20 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/chivers-bought-by-top-uk-firm-premier-foods-26281269.html }
A UK food manufacturer has bought Irish jam maker Chivers after it sold it in a management buyout in 1999, it was confirmed yesterday. Premier Foods will combine the Chivers Ireland operation with its existing Premier Foods Ireland business, which was formed last year after it acquired Campbell's Soups Ireland. The merged company, with an expected turnover in Ireland of around ?70m, will possess well-known brands such as Erin, Oxo, McDonnells, Chivers, Ambrosia, Birds, Loyd Grossman and Goodall's. The value of the deal has not been disclosed. Sources familiar with the company said it would depend on whether the deal includes the Chiver's headquarters in Coolock, Dublin. This is a valuable landbank of around eight acres adjacent to the former Cadbury facility. It is surrounded by houses making in eminently suitable for residential development. Liam O'Rourke, the current managing director of Chivers Ireland, who will head the new operation, said: "This acquisition is a significant investment in Ireland and a vote of confidence in the strength of the Irish food sector by one of the UK and Ireland's leading and most dynamic food businesses. "I am excited by the opportunities for growth this combined business and its exciting portfolio of brands presents." It is understood Mr O'Rourke will also undertake an executive role with some of Premier's existing operations. The most likely position would be with Campbells Soups. The current Chivers operation was formed as a result of a management buyout from Premier Foods which owned the company between 1986 and 1999. Mr O'Rourke said: "Both businesses have developed significantly in the intervening years and I warmly welcome this 'homecoming'. "Over the coming months I will be reviewing how best to integrate the two businesses and will keep employees updated on any changes which may be proposed." Chivers, which began manufacturing preserves, jams and jellies in Ireland in 1932, distributes a wide portfolio to household brands including Goodall's, YR Sauce, Kandee, Birds, Ambrosia, Hartleys, Crosse & Blackwell, Sarsons, Loyd Grossman, Roses, Branston, Smash, Marvel and Golden Syrup. The company also distributes for Schweppes, Meli Honey, Tate & Lyle and was delivering Premier Foods products in the Republic. Premier Foods Ireland currently manufactures, sells and distributes a range of grocery products under the Erin, McDonnell's and Campbell's brands. The company operates from its head office in Dublin and manufacturing facility in Thurles, Co Tipperary, employing 165 people in Ireland in total. 
