food reviews
{ Aideen Sheehan 
    May 19 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/call-for-traffic-light-product-labels-to-show-how-healthy-our-food-is-or-isnt-26385586.html }
THE Consumers' Association of Ireland is calling for a traffic-light labelling system on food so people can tell at a glance how healthy a product is. The system would feature red, green and amber marks for key nutritional aspects such as calories, fat, sugar and salt content, helping people to work out which foods to eat and which to avoid or consume in moderation. Irish people are now being asked to have their say on labels in a major review of EU food labelling policy, including the possible introduction of health warnings on alcohol. The Food Safety Authority of Ireland has called for submissions from the public on how food and nutrition labels could be made easier to read and understand. CAI chief Dermott Jewell said the issue of clearer labelling was one of the most vital affecting public health in an era of soaring obesity and growing consumption of packaged food. "The food industry will lobby very strongly against this and say they've already got so much regulation; but when all is said and done, it's a clear winner for consumers. It would bring clarity and understanding to a complicated area," he said. EU consumer groups met in Brussels this week, through their umbrella body BEUC, to discuss the exact form new food labels should have. They want the front of packaging to contain simple signpost information, while the back would have more detailed nutritional figures. Supermarket chains Sainsburys and Waitrose in the UK have already introduced a traffic-light system of nutrition labelling, and there is evidence consumers have changed their eating habits as a result. However, the Irish Nutrition and Dietetic Institute said the crucial first step would be to come up with definitions of what could be deemed low fat or acceptable levels of salt and sugar in products, as there are still no fixed definitions. Submissions should be made before May 31, and more information is available on www.fsai.ie. 
