food reviews
{ Paolo Tullio 
    June 13 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/olivers-with-a-twist-26543914.html }
When you think about it, the simple act of getting something to eat can take many forms. At its simplest, there's the snack -- a biscuit, a sandwich, a wrap, an ice cream. That's the sort of food intake that can be eaten literally on the run. You can walk and eat, which I suppose serves as a definition of a snack. More complex ways of eating come in many forms as well -- a picnic can run the gamut from something as easy as a few sandwiches to the sort of hamper people take to Glyndebourne, but the real diversity comes with restaurants. These you can divide up into an enormous list of types and eating styles. Of these, there's one that I don't review too often, and that's the gastropub. It's probably worth defining what we mean by a gastropub -- one thing it isn't is a pub that serves food. It has to offer something more than that to justify adding the prefix gastro. Gastronomy takes its name from the Greek root 'gastro', which means stomach. So it's the study of things that go into your stomach. But when we use the word, what we really mean is the study of things that are really good to eat. So, a gastropub needs to offer really good food, not just sustenance. There's been a pub culture in Ireland for much longer than there has been a restaurant culture. Urban centres had loads of pubs long before anyone thought of opening a restaurant. Even the licensing authorities saw them as different businesses and issued different licences accordingly. But the Johnny-come-lately restaurant proliferated and publicans were forced to up their game. Offering people a toasted cheese sandwich suddenly did not look good enough. So the gastropub concept was born. It's a marriage then of two things, and it allows the people who enjoy going to the pub and who enjoy good food to satisfy both needs in one place. It's not the easiest of things to bring off, but when it works, it's a good combination. I've been hearing quite a bit lately from readers about Vaughan's Eagle House in Terenure, so this week, I went with Julia Kennedy to see what the excitement was about. The Eagle House is a long-established pub, as the large photograph of the trams passing its doors attests. Inside, it's nicely laid out with tables and nooks, and there's an upper level which has linen on the tables. Actually, the menu is the same wherever you sit -- some people prefer the linen. We sat upstairs and had the linen, which to me is like a frame around a painting; it complements the food. The restaurant is called Oliver's Eatery, because the chef is Olivier Quenet, who also owns and runs La Maison in Castle Market. He's worked in the now defunct The Commons, as well as in Patrick Guilbaud's, so he has an impeccable pedigree. Knowing this, I had high expectations. The menu is short, simple and inexpensive, with some main courses under a tenner. Here's a sample of it: fresh broccoli soup; a Cashel Blue, pear and walnut salad; whitebait; fish cakes; bangers and mash; chicken pie; beef and Guinness pie and for the very hungry, a 30-ounce T-bone steak, suggested as a dish for two. The thing about simplicity on a menu is that it's very hard to pull off successfully. There's nowhere to hide with a simple dish; any mistake is immediately obvious. So to make food simple, you need to cook it well. Julia works in the wine trade, so she was as interested as I was in the wine list. It's a short list with just 16 wines on it, but it is a well-chosen list. When you read the small print at the bottom you can see why -- it's credited to Charles Derain, a master of wine and a former sommelier from Guilbaud's. We had three glasses of the Pinot Grigio from Arcania, which was organic and had a very fresh and crisp taste, with just a little honeysuckle on the aftertaste. That was €5 by the glass or €19.50 for a bottle. We also had two bottles of mineral water. To start, Julia ordered the Cashel Blue salad with pears and walnuts and followed that with another starter, the smoked salmon salad with crab claws. I chose the pan-fried smoked herring fillets to start and followed with the skillet of seafood, so our food choices matched our wine nicely. Not unusual for a restaurant, but unusual for a pub, we got an amuse bouche -- a demi-tasse of the broccoli soup, which was very good. In a way, that tells you a lot about Oliver's Eatery -- it goes that extra mile; it isn't doing the bare minimum. We had good breads, and then the starters arrived, both nicely presented and cooked well. I particularly liked the smoked herring, which is an unfairly underrated fish, like mackerel. While Julia daintily ate her salad for a main course, I was presented with a small skillet filled with cod, salmon and mussels cooked in a marinière sauce. I have to say, it was very well done, cooked properly and delicately flavoured. Julia had ordered a side of the barley risotto, a dish common enough in my part of Italy and, in truth, a dish I could live without. Julia loved it and she kept encouraging me to try it. I did, but I haven't changed my opinion. But as the Romans said, de gustibus non est disputandum. On a mid-week night, Oliver's was very busy, at times so busy that it caused a few longueurs in the service, which was otherwise very charming and friendly. I noticed that there were some people who were in for a drink or two, but who ordered a chicken pie or a beef pie with their beers, and perhaps that's what makes this place so successful -- you can treat it like a restaurant or you can treat it like a pub. Whichever you do, there's no doubt that Oliver's produces good food and deserves its description as a gastropub. Read Paolo at www.tasteofireland.ie Email: paolo@independent.ie On a blow-out If money was no object, here's an idea -- order the 30-ounce T-bone, priced at €55. It's sourced from master butchers O'Toole's just across the road, so it's prime stuff. The most expensive wine on the list, other than champagne, is a Gigondas from the Côtes du Rhône at €40, which would pair very nicely with the steak. On a budget For a drink and well-made dish of food, this is a perfect place. If all you want is a couple of beers and something to fill a gastric void, I'd go for the pies. There are three on the menu -- lamb, chicken and beef -- which come to you freshly cooked and piping hot. They're priced from €13.50 and €14.50, and come with enough extras on the plate to be a complete meal. Food: 5 Ambience: 3 Service: 3 Wine list: 3 Value for money: 4 Total rating: 18/25 
