food reviews
{  
    August 04 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/localnotes/community-news-macroom-matters-35994917.html }
Pencil in the dates - September 21 to September 24 - because that's when Macroom is all set to go food crazy. Food, drink and entertainment events will take place at a number of indoor and outdoor venues across the town centre, including the Main Square, The Castle Hotel, various pubs, cafés, restaurants and The Riverside Park Hotel. It's all about food of course but there's plenty of music and fun for all the family including a vintage tea dance, a tasting menu extravaganza, kids' zone, Macroom taste trail and international food flavours event. Add in Macroom's biggest outdoor céilí, a monster outdoor food market, a schools cook-off competition, interactive children's entertainment, live music and more and there's plenty on the menu for all the family. This week Macroom Food Festival 2017 committee launched its much anticipated line-up and it doesn't disappoint. The 2017 festival will span four days and will feature new additions such as the expanded Kids' Zone on Saturday morning, Macroom's biggest outdoor céilí on Saturday evening and an even bigger outdoor market on the Sunday, featuring an interesting and educational line-up of demonstrations and discussions. Old favourites such as An Artisan Affair, the Taste Trail, International Food Flavours and live music from the Army Band of the Southern Command are still in the mix too which means another cracking weekend full of fun for all the family is in store. The weekend will kick off with the Vintage Tea Dance on the Thursday evening at The Castle Hotel - a wonderful waltz back in time, with prizes for best dressed lady and gentleman so grab your vintage gear and come along for a dance. Friday will see the return of the 'An Artisan Affair' at The Riverside Park Hotel, which will showcase the vast array of Macroom's local produce, prepared by Macroom's local chefs, working together to produce a superb tasting menu with a large helping of live music and entertainment. Tickets go on sale for this event on Saturday, August 26, at from The Castle Hotel. On the Saturday morning there will be fun for kids big and small at the Kids Zone Marquee on the main square. Bring your bear to the Teddy Bear's Picnic, get creative with Hooparella Crafts, take home your very own balloon character or have your face painted. Orienteering for hungry foodies will take place over the course of the afternoon with the Macroom Taste Trail - nibble your way from pub to shop to cafe and restaurant around Macroom, following the taste trail map and sampling the best the area has to offer in really relaxed and varied surroundings. Tickets are €3 per tasting and are available from all participating venues and the festival headquarters. From 5pm The Square will come alive with the International Food Flavours Marquee so come along and taste your way around the world: tickets are €3 or one taste trail ticket for three countries. Saturday evening aims to set the record for Macroom's biggest outdoor céilí - brush up on your hAon, Do, Trís and join in the craic with a fantastic live céilí band and plenty of sustenance from a mini gourmet market. Meanwhile, Sunday will see The Square transformed once more into a massive outdoor food market, complete with off-the-wall children's entertainment from Circus Outside the Box, live music from the army band of the Southern Command, Macroom Youthreach and lots more. Demonstrations and discussions will take place at the Castle Hotel. Students will get competitive at the annual Schools' Cook-Off and, as always, there will be plenty to eat and drink all round - from local organic meats to barista style coffee and sticky buns to seasonal produce and everything in between, from Macroom, Cork, Munster and beyond. The festival will close with a massive festival finale party at the Castle Hotel from 7pm where the much sought after festival awards will be announced. The festival has drawn crowds of 10, 000 and more over the past number of years and the team behind Macroom Food Festival 2017 aims to make this one even bigger, better and more delicious than ever! See www.macroomfoodfestival.com for further details. Laochra Óg Notes Saturday, July 29: Laochra Óg U13 Camogie Team resumed their Muskerry League campaign with a home match against Rockbán on Saturday morning in Coláiste Gobnatan, Ballyvourney. Laochra Óg had a number of girls missing due to being away on holidays but this gave other girls on the panel great experience playing in different positions. There were some great goals scored from Mary Ellen Kelleher and Emily Murphy with a well taken point from Ava O'Connell. Maria Moynihan, Ciara Bradley, Lucy O'Connor, Hazel Healy, Aisling O'Leary to name a few put in great defensive displays and Aoife Lucy's puck outs from goals were superb. Caoimhe Murphy, Lauren O'Brien, Lily Murphy put in super solo runs on occasions and showed great confidence on the ball. Brenna Hickey and Helena Healy came desperately close to scoring. The girls just came up short. All girls on the panel are here to learn and develop their skills and this game will stand to them for their future development. Thursday, July 27: The U10 boys played Tracton away in a League game and after a long trip down, gave away an early lead against a very strong and skilful Tracton side. But they fought their way back into the game in the second half showing great determination. Saturday, July 22: The U16 Hurling team hosted Killavullen in the grounds of Coláiste Gobnatan in Ballyvourney. They were very much under strength with five on age players missing due to injuries or on holidays. The young U14 hurlers took up the challenge and managed to field a team. Killavullen were very strong from the off and lead throughout the game. The Laochra Óg lads battled hard with them but their scores were hard fought and few. And it was a much improved second half by Laochra Óg with the players putting the opposition under pressure and creating chances also. Overall Laochra Óg were beaten by a good team and hopefully the tough game will stand to the local lads in good stead. Camp for Champs: Friday, August 4, is registration deadline for Camp for Champs, Ballyvourney. Contact 087-9437272 with name and age, date of birth, of child. The camp is open for boys and girls for registered and non registered Laochra Óg members. Ages U6 - U14. Equipment loaned out to beginners. Gurrane Celtic Reunion: Laochra Óg would like to thank Gurrane Celtic for their support following their reunion night which took place in The Mills Inn at the weekend. 50/50 Club Development Draw: The latest 50/50 Club Development Draw took place in Clondrohid Communitly Hall. The winner was Neilus and Caoimhe Murphy who won €431 and the sellers prize of €25 goes to Marguerite Murphy. Thanks to everyone who supported the draw. The next draw takes place on Sunday, August 13. Following a very successful Cúl Camp, training and matches resumed this week. The players were refreshed and enthusiastic and the teams recorded a number of very good performances. U16's: The side beat Clondrohid in a practice game by 2-13 to 0-10. They have one outstanding league match and have a chance of making the play-offs. U11s: The U11s played Canovee in a challenge game in the Castle Grounds on Thursday, July 29, and won 3-12 to 1-6, preforming extremely well on the day. U-10s: The team travelled to play Naomh Abán, Ballyvourney where they played two matches. Other teams did well and they recorded two wins. Then on Saturday the Macroom U10s played Ballinora in a challenge match. Both teams started brightly and the game was evenly contested with scores hard earned. Gradually Macroom got the upper hand and won in the end by a couple of goals. It took a great team effort from all the lads against a strong opponent. A feature of the game was the passing, movement and blocking of the Macroom boys. The coaching team was delighted with the effort shown. U9's: The U-9s also played Ballinora on and performed very well. Stage two of their league will commence in August. U8's: The panel continues to train and is fixed to play a blitz on August 12. In other matters, new juvenile goalposts are to be purchased. Danny O'Keeffe will write a review of this year's Cúl Camp. James McCarthy, GDA, will visit on August 8 to conduct a coaching master-class with the U10's and U16's. John Ryan, coaching officer, is to arrange goalkeeper coaching in August. Fundraising activities are planned for later in the year. Underage registration for new season at Macroom FC The Macroom FC underage registration night will take place at the Sports Complex (Macroom Community Leisure Centre) on Friday next, August 11, from 7pm to 9pm. Registration is open to Schoolboys U7 (born 2011), U8, U9, U10, U11, U12, U13, U14, U15 and U16. Schoolgirl registration will be accepted for U10, U12 and U14. Membership for the 2017-18 season is €50 per child with subsequent children from the same family costing €25. Family memberships are also available at €100. Macroom FC is always looking for volunteers to join the club. Anyone interested in getting involved is encouraged to speak to coaches or committee members who will be available at this event. Meanwhile, Murrayfield, the home ground of Macroom FC, will host a family day on Sunday August 20, from 2pm-5pm. There are loads of activities being planned including face painting, welly throwing, bouncy castles, penalty shoot-out, mini world cup and other novelty events. Onsite catering will be available along with complimentary teas and coffees. Please come along and enjoy the afternoon with your local soccer club. Lotto Results: 31/07/17 Jackpot €6,600. Numbers drawn: 16, 21, 25. No Winner. €80 Dave Martin c/o Twomey's Butchers, €20 Patrick Ring c/o Darrin, Josef Konrad c/o Darrin, Alisha Murphy c/o June, Denise Moloney c/o Fudge. Anglers to descend on Lee Valley Fourteen countries, including Spain, Italy, France and England, will descend on the village of Coachford next week as the World Youth Angling Championships take place on Inniscarra Lake. The competition takes place on Saturday, August 12 and Sunday, August 13, with the teams expected to start arriving from this weekend for training and familiarisation of the venue. Each competing country will have 15 team members, five under 15s, five under 20s and five under 25s. Accommodation in the Lee Valley area is at a premium with Hotels, B&Bs and holiday apartments all booked out for months. Coachford village is the venue for the official opening ceremony on Thursday, August 10, and a parade of flags by the competing nations will take place at 6pm. The village is expected to be hive of activity for the week as the GAA hall will act as the official headquarters of the World Championships. The Under 20s and U25s will fish on the newly refurbished Greenway while the competition for the Under 15s takes place on the garden section of the river at Griffins Garden Centre in Dripsey. "The whole community is looking forward to welcoming the young anglers to the village and with 210 young fishermen, their families and team members coming to Coachford it is going to be a great week for the area," said Community Council Chairperson, Maighread Ní Mhurchú. "We are thrilled that the Inniscarra Lake Tourism Development Committee and the National Course Fishing Federation of Ireland were able to secure another World Championship for the river so soon after the very successful World Feeder Championships in 2014. "The improvement works on the Greenway will see this already excellent facility become an even better venue for top class world events in the future," she added. The national flags of the 14 nations have been installed at Rooves Bridge by O'Donovan Engineering and provide a terrific backdrop to the world championship venue. The village has been decorated with buntings and flags also as Coachford prepares to welcome our European cousins. Can you help? Meanwhile, the organisers of the World Youth Fishing Championships are looking for river bank stewards to help out on Saturday and Sunday, August 12 & 13. Each of the 210 competitors will need a steward to count the number of fish they catch and to act as a support to the relevant angler. This is a great opportunity to get involved in a world championship event and to enjoy a few hours on the river bank. If you are available on any of the days please contact Tommy on 086 104 3040. Countdown is on to Vauxhall Open 10th anniversary run Ted's Opel Vauxhall Run 2017 will be celebrating the 10th running of the popular event. It takes place on August 12 and August 13. This year's base is the Blarney Hotel & Golf Resort, Tower, Blarney with special hotel accommodation rates available - early booking is advised! Registration is from 9am on August 12 and it's €20 per car including Starter Pack containing 10th Run Souvenir Road book/Programme. The first award will be presented at 10am and cars depart the hotel at 10.15am. The route on Saturday takes the cars from the Blarney Hotel through Rylane, Aubane, Millstreet, Clondrohid and on to Ballymakeera for lunch in the Abbey Hotel. After lunch the run continues to Kilnamartyra where it will visit the Prince August Toy Soldier factory, then continue through the Kilnamartyra Rally Stage (Sebastian Loeb claimed it was one of the nicest rally stages in the world) onto Inchigeela, Hartnett's Cross, Coachford, and returning to the Blarney Hotel. There will be a gala dinner on Saturday evening at 7.30pm in the clubhouse. Tickets at €25 each available from Ted / Denis. There will also be a short Q & A session preceding the dinner with a few guest dignitaries, followed by music after dinner. On Sunday, August 13, from 11am - 4pm there will be a Static Show in the Blarney Hotel grounds. It is hoped that this will be the biggest Opel / Vauxhall / Bedford / GM event the country has seen. There will be a barbecue available too at €10pp. Corkman 
