food reviews
{ LUCINDA O'SULLIVAN 
    July 13 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/its-nice-to-go-travelling-but-its-oh-so-nice-to-stay-home-26461472.html }
RTE is screening Failte Towers, a reality show in August, in which 12 celebrities take over a real, functioning hotel. Stripped of their egos and glamour, they will be down and dirty battling the heat of the kitchen, the steam of the laundry, and serving actual guests. Spending a lot of time on the road reviewing restaurants -- and consequently needing a bed -- I have had more than my share of hilarious Basil Fawlty-type experiences. That coupled, with emails from readers, resulted five years ago in the first edition of my Little Black Book of Great Places to Stay & Eat. For me what makes a holiday are the characters encountered, about whom I can roar laughing afterwards. I would hate to see that loopy, whacky element being lost in a sea of goosedown duvets and eggs Benedict perfection. I have roasted on beaches around the world, but whenever we touch down back on the auld sod, my better half Brendan does a Pope John Paul II, promptly kissing the ground, saying, "It's a great little place all the same." We have unquestionably had our best holidays in Ireland. OK, the weather may be crap, and we may bitch about rip-off prices, but we never bitch about the craic. 'Staycation' is what the Americans call holidaying at home; so have we too not had our fill of Prague, Barcelona, and airport chaos? Forget the rain and the overhyped doom and gloom, and get out there and enjoy your country. In Co Wicklow there is the fabulous, luxurious golfer's paradise, the Marriott Druid's Glen Hotel, with superb food. Further down at the seaside village of Ballymoney, Co Wexford, is the new Seafield Hotel and spa, which is great for the family. Just short of Wexford town on the Slaney estuary is the Ferrycarrig Hotel (recently voted Ireland's Most Family- Friendly Hotel). It has a kids' club and promises "to keep your little ones safe whilst you relax". With cracking food and excellent leisure centre, the Ferrycarrig is great. In Rosslare, Kelly's Resort Hotel and Sea Spa is deservedly one of Ireland's great institutions -- like a great luxury cruise liner, there is everything 'on board': lovely food, entertainment, beaches, golf. We can be sniffy and snobby about the Tramore amusements, but big kids and little kids alike love a bit of honky tonk -- just be sure to ration them! Last time one of my guys was there he ate too much junk before going on an 'up and down' ride. Need I say more? Near Dungarvan is the Gold Coast Golf Hotel and Leisure Centre, with a play loft for kids, bowling, swimming pools, pubs and restaurants. There is the new sophisticated Cliff House Hotel at Ardmore for the grown-up kids. In East Cork there is the luxury Cappella Castlemartyr Hotel and Spa on a magnificent estate, and not far away is the Garryvoe Hotel right beside the beach with great food -- as has its smaller sister hotel, the Bayview, at Ballycotton. Do stop in Midleton at Finin's -- fantastic bar with brilliant food. At the wildly wacky Cork International Airport Hotel, which has an aeroplane fuselage as part of the restaurant, the appropriately named 'Flying Chef Lorenzo Polegri' of Ristorante Zeppelin in Umbria is winging in to give a family-orientated Italian Cookery Course starting July 24. Shop, cook and eat -- it should be great fun. Kinsale draws tourists from all over the world with one thing on their mind: food. Why not join them? There are great places to stay at different price levels. The Blue Haven Hotel on Pearse Street has plush rooms, great food, and a hopping bar. On Friar's Street, Maureen Tierney runs Friar's Lodge, one of the best four-star guest houses in Ireland -- hotel rooms at B&B prices. The Trident Hotel on the pier has had a major revamp. The cute Harbour Lodge at Scilly has excellent food and accommodation; then there is Woodlands House, a very serene B&B. Food too can be had at all levels in Kinsale, from the top of the range Toddies and Max's Wine Bar to the new Shanghai Express Tapas Bar. Further west in colourful Clonakilty there is a fantastic Forties-style Model Railway Village. At Clon is Inchydoney Island Lodge & Spa, as well as the family-friendly Dunmore House Hotel, both by the beach. Gleeson's on Connolly Street has lovely food and they have just opened a new pizza/ pasta place next door called Mio's. Richey's Bar and Bistro also does great eclectic grub. In the sailing paradise of Baltimore, be in the centre of everything at Youen and Kate Jacob's new Waterfront Guest House -- marvellous big bar and restaurant -- and yards from the iconic Youen Jacob Sr's eponymous restaurant. Down at Ballylickey, Kathleen O'Sullivan's glorious Seaview House Hotel is a wonder of good food, luxurious hospitality and comfort. A hotel with character. I still remember the wonderment and bliss on a young Englishman's face on being told he would receive "both pudding and cheese". In the Kingdom of Kerry, Kenmare is amazing. At the top end are the fabulous Sheen Falls Lodge & Spa and The Park Hotel, both of which are outstanding. There is the excellent boutique Brook Lane Hotel, doing very good food, and the Lansdowne Arms Hotel. Good B&Bs abound, including Hannah Boland's lovely Muxnaw Lodge overlooking the river, and Virginia's Guesthouse over Mulcahy's restaurant in Henry Street, right in the heart of things. Out near Sneem is Parknasilla Resort, which has had a massive amount of money spent on it, adding self-catering houses. Around the corner is the new Sneem Hotel, which is also a terrific place for a holiday -- great location, friendly, good food. At Caragh Lake is Frank and Mary Slattery's divine Carrig House, where the food is superb and the gardens are divine, absolutely heavenly. At Waterville on the dramatic Ring of Kerry is the lovely Butler Arms Hotel, which is where for years Charlie Chaplin used to bring his family on holiday. In Killarney is the newly revamped Hotel Europe -- which had everyone agog when it opened years ago, and has them agog again with its new Crystal Bar, Brasserie and Panorama restaurants, spa, tennis courts, and children's play areas. The Killarney Park is sleek five-star luxury and has a sister hotel, boutique style, called The Ross, doing great food in its Cellar One restaurant. Also gorgeous is the Killarney Royal -- scrumptious comfort and excellent food, as has Jackie Lavin's Muckross Park Hotel. Foley's Townhouse and Restaurant offers great value accommodation and grub. Treyvaud's and Chapter 40 are also good places to eat. And of course the five-star Aghadoe Heights Hotel and Spa is top end -- fabulous always. Dingle is magic with all its colourful little streets. Try Murphy's Ice Cream Shop on Strand Street, take a trip out to the Blasket Islands, swim with Fungi the Dolphin. It's all like a movie set, still as beautiful as seen in Ryan's Daughter. Stay in Heaton's Guesthouse or the gorgeous Castlewood House (which is like a five-star hotel) -- both overlook the water. Further out of town on the Slea Head drive is O'Gorman's Clifftop House -- excellent food too. Visit the Aquadome in Tralee -- two great hotels there: Manor West with seriously good food from Chef Bart O'Sullivan, and Meadowlands who have their own fishing boats, so great fish. The Clare coast is stunning -- a golfer and surfer's paradise. Vaughan Lodge at Lahinch is cracking, as is Admiralty Lodge at Spanish Point -- both with wonderful food. At Doolin, with all its ceol and craic, a young couple called John and Becky Flanagan have been making big waves with their Tir Gan Ean Hotel and Ballyvara Lodge. They are now involved too in the new Burren Coast Hotel. Also at Doolin is the romantic Ballinalacken Castle Country House Hotel -- excellent food -- think Daphne du Maurier and the pirates of Frenchman's Creek. Galway is always abuzz. At Lough Atalia Road, the Radisson SAS Galway Hotel & Spa is superb and also in that area is the hip G Hotel. At the seaside resort of Salthill, the Galway Bay Hotel is geared for families and groups of friends and does a great job with excellent food also. Moving out into Connemara you have the serene Ross Lake Country House at Oughterard, which belonged to Lord Iveagh's land agent. On the furthest tip of Connemara is Renvyle House Hotel -- a great oasis of hospitality and fun overseen by the genial Ronnie Counihan with delicious food from chef Tim O'Sullivan. Lisloughrey Lodge at Cong is new and chef Wade Murphy has just won two AA rosettes. It is right beside the absolutely dreamy Ashford Castle, which is the creme de la creme of Irish hospitality. There is also the cool new Ice House boutique hotel and spa on the River Moy at Ballina -- wow. Take the kids to windsurf and see Yeats country and stay at the wonderful, friendly Glasshouse Hotel in Sligo. Donegal is another world and in Rosnowlagh you have that amazing beach and one of the great Irish hotels -- the Sandhouse -- with delicious food, and a spa. Castle Murray House Hotel on St John's Point has stunning clifftop views and great restaurant. In Ramelton there is the gentle, beautiful Frewin House where you can have dinner under real candlelit chandeliers. In Donegal town there's an excellent four-star guest house called Donegal Manor, and nearby at Lough Eske there is the fab Harvey's Point Hotel where they have lots of live entertainment, including Linda Martin, as well as a €32 barbecue each Sunday night with as much as you can eat. In lakeland Cavan there is the Slieve Russell Hotel & Golf Resort with fantastic facilities and restaurants, and also the Cavan Crystal Hotel -- gorgeous, with sublime food. In Birr Castle Gardens on July 17 there is an outdoor performance of Treasure Island, promising high drama, swordfights -- and of course Long John Silver's parrot! I cannot promise you any parrots or pirates at Birr's County Arms Hotel -- but Biffo himself was there last week for the official opening ceremony, celebrating the massive refurbishment and upgrading of the Loughnane family's smashing hotel. What can I say? Follow the leader. Kilkenny -- the land of my heart -- is an education. There are lots of great places to see -- the newly revamped Hotel Kilkenny, the Ormonde, the Hibernian, Langton House Hotel, the Newpark, and the exquisite Mount Juliet Conrad Estate and world famous golf course at Thomastown. Moving to Co Louth, there is also the great, hip D Hotel right on the River Boyne. And if you want to show the family Belfast in style, you can't beat the amazing Merchant Hotel -- like the Doges Palace in Venice. Why do we ever go away? There are fantastic value breaks to be had. 
