food reviews
{ Rita de Brun 
    September 01 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/recipe-for-success-26473472.html }
Jamie Oliver's revelation a while back that British children were being packed off to school with a lunch of fizzy drinks and junk food sparked outrage among parents. On this side of the Irish Sea, the most prevalent reaction was indignation, that and an assertion that no such thing could ever happen here. But the high moral ground is shaky territory, and while the Naked Chef was peering into lunchboxes in the UK, a number of schools in deprived areas of this country were also under the spotlight for suposedly supplying junk food to hungry pupils. This time, sausage rolls, pizza and doughnuts were the forbidden fare allegedly bought by schools benefiting under the state-funded School Meals Programme, which aims to improve the diets of disadvantaged pupils. However Tom Bradbury, manager of Bradburys Bakery, says that the typical lunch that his company supplies to schools under the programme is a sandwich, a drink and a piece of fruit. The bottom line "On a Friday, the schools might request that the kids get a muffin as a treat, but foods such as pizza, quiche and sausage rolls are only on the menu once every three weeks at most. "The bottom line is that we supply what the principals ask us to supply. Parents won't tolerate their children being given rubbish to eat and schools won't accept sub-standard food." Niamh Fitzgerald, press officer for the Department of Social and Family Affairs, insists that funding is intended for the purchase and distribution of healthy, nourishing, food items only. "The idea behind the programme is that better nutrition impacts positively on school attendance and quality of learning, so of course financial support is not being made available for sugary drinks, fried foods and confectionery," she says. "At the end of the school year, records on foods bought under the programme will be examined by the department. Those found to be operating inadequate schemes will be suspended from receiving further financial support, until such time as any issues are resolved." While public scrutiny and stringent policing of state-funded expenditure will go some way towards improving what youngsters in deprived areas are served, the age-old challenge of getting all of our kids to eat healthy, balanced, school meals remains. In the Jamie's School Dinners series, the popular chef pointed out that children are so used to the taste of additives that they often find natural foodstuffs bland and unappetising by comparison. So what are parents of finicky eaters to do? Dr Muireann Cullen, manager of the Nutrition & Health Foundation, says that parents of kids who regularly refuse what they're served should consult the food pyramid for ideas. Balanced diet "It's all about ensuring that they eat a varied, balanced diet," she explains, "but if they won't eat what's being served, parents should offer them alternatives from the same food category, to ensure they're getting the nutrients they need." While that may sound fairly straightforward, the difficulty is that all too many of us aren't managing to get the right foods into our kids, and they're losing out because of it. "A third of Irish children aren't getting enough calcium, 61pc aren't getting enough fibre, and many are also low in iron," says Muireann. "Their intake of fruit and vegetables is generally very low, and even when they're given a great school lunch, many end up swapping their food with classmates, so they're not getting the benefit." While food-swapping can be a headache for parents, spare a thought for headmaster Dermot Dix, who, inspired by Jamie Oliver's campaign for good school dinners, introduced a radical overhaul of the cooking practices and menu at Headfort School in Kells. "When I came here five years ago, there was a big emphasis on serving the kind of meals the kids wanted to eat. Steak and kidney pie, pastries and chips featured strongly, and while overall the food was good and there were plenty of healthier options available, I knew we could do much better. "Inspired by Oliver, I brought in a new head chef, who has positively transformed the kitchen. Now everything is prepared on site, and we use fresh ingredients only. As a result, the kids are delighted, and are eating quality, wholesome food. "The food we serve is akin to something you'd happily pay for in a good restaurant," he says. So the message is clear: the culinary delights being served up to the boarders at Headfort is nothing short of pukka. Which is, of course, as it should be. And a mistake many of us make is to underestimate how important tasty food is to youngsters. The point was brought home to me by an American friend who recently took his teenage son on a tour of the Ivy League colleges. His intention was to find out which one the young man would most like to attend, should he get a place. Harvard was the chosen venue. Absolutely delighted, the father who had been educated there himself, enquired why. "Because," came the reply, "I really enjoyed the lunch we ate there today." As you can imagine, Papa was not impressed, but I imagine that Jamie Oliver would have understood. Deirdre Collender, Scoil na Leanai, Waterford "Bacon and cabbage is our pupils' favourite meal. After that, it's roast beef and stuffing, meatballs with noodles, and chicken curry. Kids love chips so we serve them on Friday, and with sausages on a Monday evening. "Fish is something the kids are afraid of. They worry about bones. We tried offering fishcakes but they didn't take off, so we're reviewing other ways of getting them to eat it. "Home-made soup is another thing they won't eat, but we do serve salad for tea twice a week -- a traditional one with either cooked ham or chicken, and they eat that. "We are health conscious in that we steam our vegetables and potatoes, bake brown bread every day, and bake rather than fry, where possible. We also have a nurse who monitors what the kids are eating. "We find that a lot of city kids are fascinated when they see us picking our own lettuce and vegetables. It's as though they didn't realise they're grown in the earth. When they see that, they're more inclined to eat it, which is great." Colin Byrne, Aravon Preparatory School, Wicklow "I've been cheffing for 30 years and I've been at Aravon four years, where I feed 160 children between six and 12 years of age every day. "Kids eat with their eyes, so we do all we can to make the food look appetising. When we're serving carrots, we'll add green beans or broccoli, and they go for that. "We serve fish as an option every day, and it's extremely popular, mainly because I take out every bone myself. Salmon, haddock and cod are favourites, as are goujons served with garlic aioli. "Most of the pupils here come from very wealthy families, and they're used to dining in expensive restaurants. They have sophisticated taste in food, and they dine extremely well here. We use local suppliers and prepare everything from scratch ourselves. "Every day, we offer a selection of 12 to 14 salads, and mothers regularly come in for lunch, and ask me for recipes so they can try them at home. Chips are an option once a month, and in the good weather the barbeque gets a lot of use." Liz Charles, Headfort School, Meath "There was a time when a lot of boring, processed food was being served here, but not anymore. Since I joined, all of our meals are homemade from fresh ingredients. "The kids love Irish stew, hot-pot and goulash. They're not gone on fish, although some like the salmon fillets, and our Thai fish-cakes are a big hit. They also enjoy our soups: leek and potato, tomato and basil and lentil and vegetable being the favourites. "We try to be adventurous in our cooking and regularly hold theme days. Today is Mexican Day, and that helps the kids to get used to trying new tastes. "We change our menu with the seasons and offer a variety of main meals every day, with a choice of eight different salads. "We serve three meals a day on a budget of €1.50 per meal. We do wonders with that, and the result is clean plates, and a lot of compliments from the pupils. "Our mission is to make food fun time for the kids. We've achieved that, now we've just got to keep on making delicious meals for them." 
