food reviews
{ EILISH O'REGAN Health Correspondent 
    May 12 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/row-erupts-over-claims-that-gm-foods-safe-26149849.html }
A NEW row over genetically modified foods erupted last night after a top level independent health report declaring they are safe to eat was roundly condemned. The Food Safety Authority, which reports to the Department of Health, said the public should feel reassured that genetically modified foods posed no risk to humans. Dr Colin Hill, who heads the FSA's committee investigating the controversial technology insisted it was the most ``regulated food on the surface the of planet''. ``We are not endorsing or promoting genetically modified foods, just offering advice on their safety. None of us stand to gain a penny from saying this,'' he said. However, Dr Elizabeth Cullen of the Irish Doctors Environmental Association said it was not possible to give a categorical assurance without properly regulated trials on the effects of eating these foods. Quentin Gargan of the group Genetic Concern accused the authority of rubber stamping the research carried out by the companies which produce genetically modified crops and said the body is patronising the public with ill-founded reassurances. And Green MEP Nuala Ahern called on Dr Hill to step down from the authority accusing him of issuing misleading information to the public. The report said scientists from the authority independently reviewed each new food separately to ensure that its complies with specific criteria. ``The potential of a GM food to produce an allergic reaction is one of the safety consideration that is carefully measured when a new food is being reviewed for safety,'' said the report. Responding to other concerns, the report said worries have been expressed that eating these foods could lead to antibiotic resistance in humans because marker genes have been used in the process. ``While the risk of this happening is very small the Food Safety Authority advises that they should be avoided and that other types of marker genes should be used. The authority will continue to review each new food on case by case basis.'' * The European Union will formally notify the World Trade Organisation by letter that it does not intend to meet today's deadline for lifting a ban on hormone treated beef imports, increasing the risk of a trade war.  The WTO has ruled the EU's 10-year-old ban on imports of hormone-treated beef is illegal and has given the 15 nation bloc until today to lift the ban. The US has threatened to impose £560m in sanctions on EU goods if the ban is not lifted. 
