{ By Harry Howard For Mailonline   Published:  11:03, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031963/Ex-Labour-MP-Fiona-Onasanya-moans-lack-ALMOND-MILK-tells-month-jail.html }
The shamed former Labour MP Fiona Onasanya, who was jailed for perverting the course of justice, has written a memoir about her struggles in prison.  Onasanya, 36, was jailed for three months in January last year after she was convicted of lying to police about a speeding ticket. But the former MP spent just a month in prison and has since complained in a 122-page memoir about a lack of almond milk and 'measly meals like Spaghetti hoops' during her time behind bars. The ex-Peterborough MP made her remarks in a book, titled Snakes And Adders.  In one passage, she recalled being ridiculed during her first breakfast behind bars.  She claimed another inmate shouted 'This ain't Costa' after she asked for almond milk or 'soya if there's no alternatives'.     She also complained of a lack of sleep while imprisoned at HMP Bronzefield but said she now hopes to 'become a voice' for women she met in prison. Onasanya became the first sitting MP in nearly thirty years to be jailed when she was convicted of lying to police about a speeding ticket.  Her brother, Festus Onasanya, pleaded guilty to the same charge and was jailed for ten months.  Ms Onasanya's book is described as a 'candid account of life both behind and beyond the door as a sitting MP'.  And in an apparent explanation of the title of her book, Onasanya wrote: 'I remember the board game snakes and ladders and thinking it is quite symbolic.  'This journey called life is full of peaks and troughs, but this was something very different. 'No-one tells you that at the top of ladders can be a pit of adders!!! 'Adders are Britain's only venomous snake but in the world of politics, I think there are two types which comes disguised as what I will call constituents and comrades!! 'I am referring to constituents as those people who share your ideals and support your vision but do not necessarily support you. 'Neither group should be considered confidants anymore than Adders should be considered ladders!'  The former solicitor, who was struck off from the profession in August, also said she helped fellow inmates with drafting legal letters.    
