{ By Bryony Jewell For Mailonline   Published:  01:53, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027235/Debutantes-don-finest-white-gowns-dazzle-dancing-partners-Vienna-Opera-Ball.html }
Glamorous debutantes have donned their finest white gowns to enjoy a dazzling night at the Vienna Opera Ball - one of the highlights of the Austrian social calendar. Preparations for the formal event start weeks before, with 144 young couples aged between 17 to 24 dedicating themselves to rehearsals ahead of the night and spending hours putting the finishing touches on their outfits. The Ball, which dates back to 1814, is held at the Wiener Staatsoper and it takes organisers 30 hours to convert the opera house into a ball room plus another 21 to dismantle all the finery.  Pictures show glamorous dancers from the state opera entertaining the crowd - who have payed upwards of €315 (£270) to be there - and debutantes dressed all in white during the celebrations on Thursday. During the night the young people were seen gracefully floating around the room and performing their perfectly choreographed routines. The debutantes were also seen lining up opposite their male counterparts for the first dance during the annual ball, all ensuring to stay in formation and impress. Polish tenor Piotr Beczala and Russian soprano singer Aida Garifullina also took to the stage to entertain the guests and even performed a duet together. Some 5000 visitors party away and dance into the small hours of the morning – with international celebrities from the world of culture, business, politics, academia and sports all making the ball a high-key social event.      Tickets go on sale a year before the event takes place, and cost anywhere from €315 (£270) for general admission, to €23,600 (£20,230) for a circle box for 12 people.  Pulling off the Vienna Opera Ball is no mean feat and organisers need to ensure they are well stocked up on the essentials to keep guests happy and enjoying the night. During the event 1,300 bottles of sparkling wine and champagne are drunk as well as 900 bottles of wine and 900 bottles of beer. As for the food guests are expected to eat 2,500 pairs of sausages, 1,000 petits fours and sandwiches and 1,300 goulash soups. Previous celebrity guests have included Kim Kardashian and Hilary Swank, and the event is watched by hundreds of thousands of viewers. Last year supermodel Elle Macpherson stole the show, in a dazzling floor-length emerald gown and appeared as the special guest of Richard Lugner. The ball season in Austria is an important part of its culture and runs from November until Lent, with the Opera Ball being the last major event in the calendar. Other pictures from the event show the debs preparing for their big night and sneaking in some last minute rehearsal time to go over their steps. With around 1.46million people watching the high-society event on TV, the routine cannot be gone over enough to ensure nobody puts a foot wrong during showtime. Some couples were spotted practicing their twirls in the corridor while some of the men went through their steps while a woman watched on. 
