{ By Marlene Lenthang For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:33, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8026431/Maryland-non-profit-sues-LeBron-Jamess-media-company-33MILLION-stolen-slogan.html }
A Maryland non-profit group is suing NBA star LeBron James claiming he stole their 'More than an athlete' slogan.  Game Plan Inc, an organization based in Bowie, Maryland, filed the $33million lawsuit on Tuesday against James' Uninterrupted media company along with Nike, Disney and Two-Take Interactive Software Inc for using the slogan.  The lawsuit argues that James stole the phrase from Game Plan after he saw a group of staffers wear the 'I am more than an athlete' slogan on their T-shirts at a basketball game on October 8, 2017 between the Washington Wizards and the Cleveland Cavaliers. James was playing for the Cavaliers at the time.  The group met with Washington Wizards' star John Wall and posed for a picture with him.  However, Uninterrupted has slammed the lawsuit as 'meritless'.    James' company underwent a rebrand of its business shortly after the October 2017 basketball game, rebranding in November or December of 2017, the lawsuit states.  In February 2018 James posted an Instagram of neon lights spelling out the phrase 'I am more than an athlete' on his personal page and that of the Uninterrupted label.  The phrase was used in response to criticism by Fox News host Laura Ingraham who slammed James for talking about politics saying, 'shut up and dribble'.  Two posts later he shared a Nike sneaker with the phrase 'More than an athlete' written on it.  The lawsuit alleges that that phrase led to clothing deals and merchandise from Nike with the slogan on it, giving exposure to Lebron's band and not Game Plan Inc. 'In August 2018, Uninterrupted partnered or contracted with NIKE to begin the production and retail of t-shirts, hoodies, shorts, socks and hats with the use of the mark 'I am more than an athlete' that are and were sold internationally,' the lawsuit says.   Game Plan says the non-profit used the slogan before James' company did and received a trademark for it in 2018 and used it since 2016.   They say James was got the slogan from their T-shirts at that 2017 basketball game.  'The attendance at the game gave Game Plan tremendous exposure, as it was able to gain attention from John Wall in front of his peers including the (arguably) most famous athlete in the world, as a member of the Cleveland Cavaliers, at the time, LeBron James,'the lawsuit said.  Game Plan argues that LeBron's influence as a celebrity led the slogan to be distributed in media content from ESPN and NBA 2K video games.  The group is now seeking $33million in profits made from the use of Uninterrupted Nike and Disney, according to WUSA9.  Game Plan is a youth development program founded by Sam Sesay to help local kids in athletics and academics.  According to the group's mission statement they are 'dedicated to enhancing, informing, and educating the youth to ascend through the ranks of high school and college athletics and academics in order to attain professional-level success whether in sports or otherwise.'  However, James' company Uninterrupted called the suit 'meritless'. 'The complaint filed by Game Plan today is meritless and contains numerous factual inaccuracies,' the company said in a statement to The Ball Zone.  'Uninterrupted owns prior rights in and to the "More Than An Athlete" trandemark.'     
