{ By Louise Boyle In New York For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:59, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8025221/Russian-pop-star-arranged-Trump-Tower-meeting-prepares-launch-tour.html }
Emin Agalarov, the Russian pop star and billionaire friend of President Trump, is embarking on a new U.S. tour after the saga of the Mueller investigation – and questions over his role in organizing the notorious 2016 Trump Tower meeting - derailed his American shows last year. The singer, who juggles music with his role as vice-president of his oligarch father's real estate company, the Crocus Group, shared his regret at ever setting up the meeting and conceded that it inevitably raised questions for American voters, in his first U.S. interview exclusively with DailyMailTV. 'I think the whole thing is a great misunderstanding. If I were to rewind everything and not set up that meeting, I would,' Emin said. 'Definitely it should have raised questions because obviously it's a strange setup. 'If a Russian political entity wanted to set up something so secret and important, they wouldn't go through a businessman, an artist, a PR manager, a secretary. 'This would be a little bit [more] nicely done I think. Obviously if that was the case, it wouldn't be put in an email. So it all was blown out of proportion. 'This chain of events is quite ridiculous. I mean, I think if President Putin wanted to pass on any information to Donald Trump then he would just sent a secret agent to do it.' Emin, who was born in Azerbaijan, is a household name in Russia where he has released 14 albums since 2006 and plays to tens of thousands of fans, including a 50,000-strong crowd in Palace Square, St. Petersburg in 2017. The 40-year-old plays to a sold-out show at New York's Town Hall on Thursday and has packed venues in Toronto, Chicago and Los Angeles on his Good Love World Tour. Yet in the U.S., his name became synonymous with, as he calls it, 'Russian fever'.  Emin and his father, Aras Agalarov, a close ally of President Putin, warranted more than 50 mentions in the report by Robert Mueller following the investigation into Russian interference in the most recent presidential election. At the heart of the inquiries was a meeting on June 9, 2016, which Emin set up at the behest of his father, via former publicist, Rob Goldstone, between a Kremlin-connected lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, other Russian officials and senior members of the Trump campaign, including Don Jr., Jared Kushner and Paul Manafort (who has since been convicted of financial fraud). Goldstone emailed Don Jr. that the 'Crown prosecutor of Russia . . . offered to provide the Trump Campaign with some official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary and her dealings with Russia' as 'part of Russia and its government's support for Mr. Trump'.  Don Jr. immediately responded that 'if it's what you say I love it,' and arranged the meeting through a series of emails and telephone calls, according to the Mueller report. Goldstone had raised a red flag and warned Emin that 'nothing good can come from this' but to the Russian scion, acting as a broker between powerful friends was an everyday occurrence. He said: 'I set up hundreds of meetings every year for different people I know. Because I'm somewhat famous in my own country, I have a lot of requests, ''Oh you know Mr. De Niro, I want to be an actor, can you hook me up? You know Mr. Trump, can you set me a meeting?'' [Emin and De Niro are partners in the Moscow franchise of Nobu]. 'Sometimes I'll try. Most of the time these meetings don't produce any results for anyone, but it's out of courtesy. [The Trump Tower meeting] was one of those times. Nobody in our family remembered the meeting until a year later when it erupted to this world of conspiracy. 'For the American people, I definitely think that it's something that should have been questioned, maybe should've been investigated but not to the extent of spending - I think $80 million on this particular investigation, Congress questioning, tens of people to testifying.' [The DOJ reported the Mueller probe cost $32 million]. Goldstone, who said he used his PR skills to 'puff up' the email to get Don Jr.'s attention, recalled that once they were in the meeting, Veselnitskaya gave a 'droning' presentation and made overtones about some well-known Russians donating to the Democratic campaign. The Mueller investigation, which ended in March 2019, concluded: 'On the facts here, the government would unlikely be able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the June 9 meeting participants had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful.' The report took two years to complete and resulted in 34 individuals, including Russian nationals, being indicted. Eight have pleaded guilty or been convicted including five Trump officials or friends.  Separately, a report jointly compiled by the CIA, FBI and NSA concluded that Putin 'ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election' was designed to 'denigrate Secretary Clinton' and showed a 'clear preference' for Trump. Emin said the Trump Tower meeting barely made news in Russia but his mother, who lives in New Jersey along with his sister, sent him news articles. 'My mom would text me - you're on the news again. Every day. This is ridiculous,' he said. 'Every normal Russian person understands that we cannot influence in any way an American election. It's just not possible, regardless of how many meetings we can set up.' The Russia investigation propelled Emin's name on to every news outlet in the country. It brought attention that any pop star would dream of but in this case there were no positives to take from it, he said. 'I think it was the wrong kind of fame. When you hear some musician's name in the non-music news, it doesn't really provoke a person to go listen to the songs or watch a video. Yes, the profile has been raised but in the wrong kind of direction.' But it didn't destroy his music career and it has had no discernible effects on Emin's business interests. Emin admits: 'Before the whole Donald Trump thing erupted, I was still selling out the same shows, between a thousand and two thousand seats. So I can't say that it changed anything dramatically.' However, the Russia investigation led the pop star to cancel his North American tour in 2019, at what he estimates was a personal cost of half a million dollars in reimbursed tickets. His attorney Scott Balber told NBC last January that although Emin was 'happy' to speak to Mueller and congressional committees on a voluntary basis, 'we don't want him to be subpoenaed or held under a material witness warrant or anything else'.  Emin said spending an unknown amount of time in the U.S. and the 'financial risk' of cancelling dozens of tour dates around the world to assist the investigation was what led to his US cancellations. 'Once you get a subpoena you have to stay in the United States until the investigation finishes,' he said. 'I did allocate two extra weeks to speak to Congress, Mueller or whoever wanted to ask me any questions. I wasn't hiding anything and still am not. Mr. Mueller has been able to question my classmates, one of our employees in the U.S. and Rob Goldstone as well. 'Postponing five shows was better than potentially postponing 50 shows. I didn't want to do it because it was a sold-out tour in most of the cities. I apologized to my fans and to all the people that had purchased tickets.' 'Emin was later completely exonerated in the report,' his official website declares.  What of Rob Goldstone, who sent the much-scrutinized email? Emin said the flamboyant publicist has kept his distance as the situation had 'hurt his life'. 'I feel really sorry that Rob was caught up in this issue because at the end of the day it was me who called and said, Rob, ''Can you make that happen?'' 'For years I would ask Rob to do crazy things and he would do them, within normal reasoning. That's exactly the way we set up Miss Universe in Russia. Whatever it takes. And we did it.' In 2018, Goldstone published a book, 'Pop stars, Pageants & Presidents: How an Email Trumped My Life.' Emin has read Rob's book but has no plans to publish his own. 'I don't think the subject is interesting enough. If I were to write a book, I'd get better stories,' he joked. 'As Rob wrote in the book, when he came out of the [Trump Tower] meeting, he called and said it was the most ridiculous, pointless meeting [he had] ever attended. 'To me it was like we wasted everybody's time. We forgot about it.' Goldstone volunteered to testify for the federal grand jury and congressional committees. He later told USA Today he had been impressed by Mueller's team as 'they seemed to have no agenda other than to get to the truth'.  Emin sees it slightly differently, saying: 'Well I think that should have been their goal - no other agenda than getting out the truth. 'I think that was precisely what the investigation was for. Although, in my personal opinion, I think the truth that they were looking for was meant to hurt the president. 'The truth never really existed in my opinion because obviously nor I, nor Rob Goldstone or any members of my family have ever tried to influence the American election or in any way participate in this process. 'First of all, we're completely apolitical. I knew Mr. Trump before he ran for president. We spent a few days together in Russia and I visited him in America. I know the entire [Trump] family.' 'Trump is one of the coolest, nicest, most successful businessmen and entertainers. He's a very good person with a good heart who means well for everybody and this was before he was president. 'So what's not to like about him? The fact that we were accused in some strange twist or angle in that connection was just very unfortunate.' After his U.S. shows, Emin goes on to 20 dates around Russia and then Europe. 'We'll end up doing maybe 80 to a 100 shows this year,' Emin said. 'Every show is special. Even if you're performing in the same city, sometimes a different venue gives you a different atmosphere. New York is special to me always because I grew up here.' His last album in English, Good Love, was three years in the making.  'With every album, I try to get myself out of my comfort zone. I co-write a lot and work with amazing producers and songwriters. The Good Love album is super special. I've released a number of albums over the past decade so this tour gathers the best of what I've got.' Emin said that up next is a Christmas album, which is in the works. 'We thought it'd be cool to create an album in a classical kind of sound. We'd record two or three original songs and pick some of the best ballads that I have and rearrange them.' Emin, whose musical heroes include Elvis, Tom Jones and Frank Sinatra, has a catalog that encompasses Michael Bublé-esque crooning ballads to upbeat Europop. He hints that his upcoming shows, where he performs with a 50-piece band, will feature special guests. He has previously performed with Grammy-winner David Foster and Chic legend Nile Rogers. 'David is an absolute legend. He has been a very dear friend and I'm excited to see him in LA. Maybe I'll get him to perform something. We'll see,' he said. Emin would not be drawn on speculation over the mysterious owner of the Vancouver Island mansion where Prince Harry and Meghan have been ensconced since Thanksgiving. Foster told DailyMail.com in January that he had hooked up the former Royals with the owner to arrange their stay. It led to speculation that the owner could be close friend Emin, which he has denied. 'I honestly have no idea but I could probably easily find out,' Emin said. 'It's another mystery. You might connect it to the next American presidential election and in the next one, David Foster will be the secret spy,' he quipped. Although Emin is eager to move past the Russia investigation, he has not resisted moments to capitalize on the notoriety, in a move that could be ripped from Trump's playbook. He is making a documentary that he hopes will be picked up by Netflix or a similar outlet – and he says the film won't shy away from his Trump family connection. Emin attended school in Tenafly, New Jersey where he nurtured a love for American music as a teenager. He went on to attend MaryMount Manhattan College and started his first business. '[The filmmakers] have been with me for over a year now, filming the entire story, everything to do with Donald Trump, the Russian fever, touring in Russia and my business. 'Yesterday I took the film crew to the old diner I used to go to and my high school. It was like time traveling to 20 years ago.' Emin was the 'first person ever to persuade Donald Trump to appear in a music video' [In Another Life] his website notes, where the President delivered his famous Apprentice line 'You're Fired'. And in the midst of the Mueller investigation, the singer released a video for the song Got Me Good, featuring impersonators of President Trump, Ivanka, Hillary Clinton, Stormy Daniels, Kim Jong Un and Mark Zuckerberg.   It was dubbed 'geopolitical trolling' by the Washington Post and played on allegations from the unsubstantiated dossier ex-MI6 spy Christopher Steele that Trump had engaged prostitutes to perform 'golden showers' (urination) in front of him on the bed where the Obamas had once slept during a state trip at a Moscow hotel. Emin said: 'We really had fun making it. When it came out, it got a lot of attention. I do not know if the Trump family has seen it but if they did, and especially Mr. Trump, I'm sure it put a smile on his face. It was a period of my life that the pages flipped and now we're back to music.' The America trip is also a chance to advance his business interests. Emin has built a company Zhara – which means 'heat' in Russian – into a brand encompassing a radio station, music TV channel, production company, awards shows and an energy drink. 'It started with a big festival that takes place in my home country in Azerbaijan, 250 acts perform over five days. It's basically the entire Russian show business. We take the festival to many different countries - Monaco, Dusseldorf, Sochi, and for 2021 we're now in conversations to bring it to the United States.' Another ambition is to create a Russian music festival on American soil. 'We are debating between Madison Square Garden and a cruise ship in the Caribbean that could host us for a week. We'd have 20 acts that perform every night.' His rescheduled American tour has not been without hiccups. Last year, two venues declined to host him. 'I think they gave a reason to my management. It was something along the lines that, 'controversial participation in the American election'. 'I guess it's a safety thing for them. I think it's quite silly as I own two venues in Russia and I don't think we ever refused an artist because he was allegedly or even involved in whatever. Because music is about freedom.' But the lasting effects of arranging the Trump Tower meeting has left Emin cautious about doing favors for others, particularly as he claims was the case here, when it had no benefit to him or his father Aras. 'At the time it just seemed so unrealistic that this [meeting] would ever have any possible meaning,' Emin said. 'But I guess everything in life is potentially a big meeting. So you should be very careful. He added: 'There was no benefit whatsoever. The biggest downside, aside from the investigation and the whole news eruption, is the fact that we don't have a relationship with a Trump family anymore.' Emin has no contact with the Trumps now, for fearing of putting them in a difficult position - a dramatic change for the real estate families who six years ago had been discussing the development of a joint residential project in Moscow. 'If this whole news situation had not happened, I would maybe invite Don Jr. or Ivanka to one of the shows. 'As soon as he's done with his presidency, which I hope is going to be in another five years, I'd love to call him and congratulate him on all the good that he has done and I'd be happy to do business with him at any time.' He is confident that Trump will win a second term. 'I think he has been a fantastic president. The unemployment rate is at its slowest, the economy is booming. The stock market is fantastic. 'I think with all the negativity which we've seen in the press, all the fake news, he has still managed to do the job.' Emin says he followed 'some' of the impeachment proceedings but it was House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ripping up the president's speech following his State of the Union address that left the biggest impression. 'I've seen the lady ripping his speech which is a bit strange because it's public. Even if you disrespect and don't like your president, you have to respect the system and the country. 'It all works in Donald Trump's favor because it makes him look good and others not.' When asked if he was wrong to withhold military aid from Ukrainian President Zelensky in order to investigate a political rival Joe Biden, Emin replied: 'I do not have enough information on that subject but I do know that there was this phone conversation that somewhat was disclosed. '[Trump] probably had his reasons. I don't think there's many presidents that are as under the microscope as he is, because I'm sure President Putin speaks to other presidents as well. We never know what the conversation is about. 'I'm sure George Bush has spoken to many presidents in his time. Have we ever looked at the details about those particular conversations? No. 'Trump is under siege the whole time. And for any president, that's quite tough because you're always exposed. But when you're studied and everybody's searching for your next possible stumble, it's tough to be a president and he has managed that.' Emin's involvement in the Mueller report has done nothing to encourage him to move into politics but he's far from certain that it is not in his future. 'I watched one of Donald Trump's interviews from the '80s when he was asked that question. And his response was also that he's not interested and look at him now, he's president. 'Maybe things will change in 40 years. But it's a tough job and a lot of responsibility, a lack of freedom and all the things that I like about my life. I don't want to sacrifice for being a president because it doesn't look like a fun job.'  
