{ By Cheyenne Roundtree For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:52, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8021601/Mike-Bloombergs-heiress-equestrian-daughter-37-dating-40-year-old-investment-advisor.html }
Presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg's daughter Georgina has a new man in her life, and DailyMail.com can exclusively reveal he's a hotshot private investment advisor. The 37-year-old professional equestrian was recently on a romantic getaway with Justin Waterman along with their respective children in the Dominican Republic.  Waterman, 40, is a father of three and a partner at Summit Trail, working from the investment firm's New York City office. During their trip, the couple stayed at the five-star Casa de Campo Resort and Villas, with Georgina posting photos of their wholesome family vacation to her Instagram.  While Waterman has long been photographed at New York society events, he was first seen with Georgina publicly at a winter ball hosted at the New York Botanical Garden in December.  Georgina has a six-year-old son with her ex boyfriend, Argentine Olympic show jumping rider Ramiro Quintana, but the two don't co-parent, according to a People Magazine article from 2015.  Most recently, Georgina was linked to hunting enthusiast Carlos Arruza Jr. in 2017.  Waterman was previously married to Meredith Bowen Waterman, and shares three children with her, but it's not clear when the two split.  It seems that love is in the air for the Bloomberg daughters, as Georgina's older sister Emma, 40, quietly tied the knot with Jeremiah Kittredge - managing to keep their marriage a secret for nearly a year, according to a report last month.   Emma was previously married to Christopher Frissora. They wed in June 2005 and never publicly announced their divorce. Frissora and Emma have one daughter together, Zelda. Both Georgina and Emma could become First Daughters if their billionaire father secures the Democratic presidential nomination and beats Trump in the election in November.   Georgina could rely on help from her 'close friend' Lara Trump, who is married to President Trump's son Eric, to show her around the White House.  The two are close, most recently co-chairing the annual Rescue Dogs Rock gala in October, putting politics aside as they happily posed for photos together.    On Wednesday night, Bloomberg faced off in his first debate after it emerged he would sell the media empire he spent decades building in the event he wins the presidency.  Bloomberg, whose wealth has been estimated to surpass $50 billion, has already come under fire from his fellow Democrats who accuse him of trying to buy the election.  'It's a shame Mike Bloomberg can buy his way into the debate,' Senator Elizabeth Warren tweeted on Tuesday.  She added: 'But at least now primary voters curious about how each candidate will take on Donald Trump can get a live demonstration of how we can take on an egomaniac billionaire.' Warren was on the Paris Theater stage alongside Bloomberg, former Vice President Joe Biden, ex-South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Senator Amy Klobuchar and Senator Bernie Sanders. The Democrats' other billionaire candidate, Tom Steyer, didn't have high enough poll numbers to qualify this round despite appearing in the past two debates. Neither did Representative Tulsi Gabbard, the only other remaining Democratic hopeful in the race. Buttigieg has echoed criticism that the billionaire Bloomberg, who is self-funding his campaign, is trying to buy the White House.  The former New York City mayor has spent $300 million on television and digital ads thus far, most of them designed to get under Trump's skin. Bloomberg has said he's open to spending up to $1 billion on the race. And despite appearing on the Las Vegas debate stage, Bloomberg isn't participating in Saturday's Nevada caucuses.  He has opted to skip the first four voting states to focus on Super Tuesday when 14 states vote on March 3 and one-third of the delegates need for the nomination are awarded.     
