{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:49, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8025911/Trump-trolls-Bloomberg-disastrous-debate-performance.html }
Donald Trump spent Thursday morning trolling Mike Bloomberg on his lackluster debate performance, mocking the former mayor's height and his chances of getting the Democratic presidential nomination. 'But I hope you do!,' the president told him.   President Trump sent out six tweets the morning after the debate and hit Bloomberg with a zinger Wednesday night after the former New York City mayor was universally panned for his debut.  Trump pointed to Bloomberg's past praise for him and then quoted one of Bloomberg's debate lines on frontrunner Bernie Sanders to add insult to injury.  '“I don’t think there’s any chance whatsoever of Senator Sanders defeating President Trump.” Mini Mike Bloomberg. Mini, there’s even less chance, especially after watching your debate performance last night, of you winning the Democrat nomination...But I hope you do!,' the president wrote.  He later added another tweet: '“The real winner last night was Donald Trump.” Mini Mike Bloomberg. I agree!'  And Bloomberg hit back, pointing to speculation the president would pardon his longtime adviser Roger Stone, who was sentenced to 44 months in prison for lying to Congress. 'Shouldn’t you be pardoning Roger Stone, you #carnivalbarkingclown?,' the former mayor tweeted.  President Trump is in the midst of a four-day West Coast tour and is in Las Vegas, the site of the Democratic debate, to take part in a Hope for Prisoners Graduation Ceremony before he heads to Colorado Springs for a campaign rally.  Trump watched the debate on Air Force One Wednesday night after it was over when he was returning to Las Vegas from a campaign rally in Phoenix that he held while the Democrats were on stage.  He shared his thoughts on Bloomberg that evening, calling the former mayor's time on stage 'perhaps the worst in the history of debates.' He appeared not have changed his initial impression when he took to Twitter Thursday morning, warning a Washington Post reporter who misspelled Bloomberg's name as 'Bloombefg' to 'learn how to spell the name Bloomberg before it is too late & he is gone!' To which Bloomberg tweeted his response: 'You can tweet what you want now. Just you wait until Novembef.' The two men have engaged in a game of insults since Bloomberg entered the race for the Democratic nomination - directed at each other on Twitter and in media interviews. The president on Thursday also retweeted a video clip of an older interview Bloomberg gave to Fox News where he called Trump a 'New York icon.' 'This is the REAL Mini Mike. He admitted, many times, that he is “a fan of Donald Trump. He’s a New York ICON.” Thank you Mike!,' the president wrote.  And he got in a third jab, retweeting a video that shows Bloomberg dwarfed by a podium with this line: 'This makes Mini Mike look good compared to his performance last night. Worst debate performance in history!'   Trump has mocked the 5'7' Bloomberg on his height, claiming the former mayor would use a box on the debate stage (he did not), while Bloomberg has called the president a barking clown who's not a billionaire. Meanwhile, Bloomberg shrugged off his ghastly debate performance with his campaign vowing he's just 'warming up' after the former mayor was universally panned for his stage debut. 'You know you are a winner when you are drawing attacks from all the candidates. Everyone came to destroy Mike tonight. It didn’t happen,' Bloomberg's campaign manager Kevin Sheekey said in a statement after the debate. 'He was just warming up tonight,' Sheekey added. And Bloomberg himself joked about his deadbeat performance when he held a campaign event in Salt Lake City on Thursday morning.   'So how was your night last night?' he asked the crowd. And he argued the infighting among the Democratic contenders at the contentious debate produced one result.  'Look the real winner of the debate last night was Donald Trump,' Bloomberg said.  The general consensus was Bloomberg bombed in Wednesday night's debate, his first time appearing with his rivals for the Democratic nomination.  He was subjected to repeated pummeling from the other contenders, who attacked him on his record with women, his treatment of minorities, his time as mayor and the billions he made as a businessman. But the former mayor kept on with business as usual. He rolled out three new congressional endorsements Thursday morning: Democratic Reps. Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, Nita Lowey of New York and Pete Aguilar of California. Those bring Bloomberg's total congressional endorsements to 15, behind only Joe Biden. And he'll be campaigning in Salt Lake City Thursday but he notably did not appear on any of the morning shows to defend his performance.  Bloomberg's stiff and testy manner on the Las Vegas stage led to questions about the viability of his campaign and if it can last past Super Tuesday, where the former mayor is banking on winning a majority of delegates when 14 states hold their primaries.  The criticism, however, has not lightened up.  Elizabeth Warren, who led the attacks against Bloomberg on Wednesday night, said he would probably spend more of his billions to counter his poor debate performance.  'I have no doubt that he is about to drop, tonight, another million dollars on his campaign ... in order to try to erase America’s memory of what happened on that debate stage,' she told MSNBC. Bloomberg, who is worth $64 billion, has dropped $124 million in advertising across the 14 Super Tuesday states alone. The Massachusetts senator also said she went against Bloomberg so aggressively so voters could see 'exactly who that man is.'  ‘I thought it was important for everybody to see exactly who that man is,” she told reporters after the debate. “This is a man who has evidently harassed women, discriminated against women and then covered it up with non disclosure agreements.’ And she added of the former mayor: “Put your money in but take your ego off the stage.' Bloomberg came under fire from his rivals for not campaigning in the early voting states of Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina, where the tradition of retail politics tests candidates' messaging and staying power.  The former mayor has instead looked ahead to Super Tuesday and let an army of campaign ads speak for him. Bloomberg has spent $400 million on television, radio and online ads.  'I don't think he was coached hard enough," Andrew Yang, who dropped out of the presidential race after a poor showing in the New Hampshire primary, told CNN of Bloomberg. 'He was clearly instructed to keep his cool no matter what but that ended up presenting as lethargic and uninterested.' And Tom Steyer, who's running for the Democratic nomination but did not qualify for the Las Vegas debate stage, got in a shot at Bloomberg's past as a Republican.  'One lesson from tonight — looks like Mike Bloomberg might be running in the wrong primary' he tweeted.  Bloomberg was welcomed to the debate stage with a series of attacks, led by Warren and Bernie Sanders who were relentless in their pummeling of him.  'As I said to Mike Bloomberg walking out, welcome to the party man,' Joe Biden told MSNBC after the debate.  It was Warren - and not Sanders - who landed the opening jab, quoting Trump-ish comments the billionaire candidate had made about women in the past.   Warren, focused on Bloomberg's previous comments, said: 'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians. And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg'.   Warren hit the former mayor even harder when it came to his refusal to release women from nondisclosure agreements with his company, regarding complaints of a hostile working environment.   Bloomberg said that at his company if anybody does anything wrong, 'we investigate it and if it's appropriate, they're gone that day.' He also talked about the many women in power in the Bloomberg organization.   'I heard you heard what his defense was: 'I've been nice to some women,'' Warren shot back. 'That just doesn't cut it. The mayor has to stand on his record. What we need to know is exactly what's lurking out there.' She asked how many NDAs were out there. 'We have a very few nondisclosure agreements,' Bloomberg responded. But Warren wouldn't let up, demanding to know 'how many is that?' 'None of them accuse me of doing anything other than maybe they didn't like a joke I told,' Bloomberg said as the audience gasped. President Trump was quick to take to Twitter on Wednesday night where he criticized former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg's performance during his first Democratic debate.   'Mini Mike Bloomberg's debate performance tonight was perhaps the worst in the history of debates, and there have been some really bad ones,' Trump tweeted. 'He was stumbling, bumbling and grossly incompetent. If this doesn't knock him out of the race, nothing will. Not so easy to do what I did!' The President also lambasted Bloomberg while at an Arizona campaign rally.   'I hear he is getting pounded tonight,' Trump said as he spoke while the debate was in progress.    Later in the rally, speaking of Bernie Sanders, Trump asked the crowd: 'How's he doing tonight?'  The president also repeated some of his tweets mocking Bloomberg's height during the rally.   'He spent $500 million so far, and I think he has 15 points,' Trump said as he attempted to downplay the prospect of being outspent by the billionaire. 'My father would teach me if you can spend less and win, that's better than spending a lot.' Trump finished his speech in Phoenix just as Democrats were wrapping up their debate in Las Vegas.     Bloomberg stood his ground, even with Joe Biden also asserted himself. 'Let's get something straight here. It's easy. All the mayor has to do is say you are released from the nondisclosure agreement, period,' the former vice president said. Bloomberg said he would not. There have been reports of several lawsuits that accuse Bloomberg of making crude comments in the 1990s and creating an uncomfortable work environment for women. He has denied the allegations. And his campaign fired off a response during the debate back-and-forth, noting the names of women who have endorsed Bloomberg and saying any large company was going to have complaints.  While his fellow Democrats laid into him, away from the debate, President Trump took to Twitter to give his two cents, saying he was 'stumbling', 'bumbling', and 'grossly incompetent' in his debut Democratic showdown.  The next weapon for the challengers was that Bloomberg is very rich.  The ex-mayor, who's worth $61 million, said billionaires like him deserve to exist. 'Yes,' Bloomberg answered point-blank. 'I worked very hard for it.' Sanders had suggested that Bloomberg's wealth was a policy failure, with rich donors pushing lawmakers to allow for the tax code to tilt toward billionaires, while other Americans are living on the streets. 'I can't speak for all billionaires, all I know is I've been very lucky, made a lot of money and I'm giving it all away to make this country better,' Bloomberg said. 'A good chunk of it goes to the Democratic Party as well,' he added. Bloomberg chided Warren and Sanders over the anti-wealth talk. 'We're not going to throw out capitalism. We tried that. Other countries tried that, it was called "communism" and it just doesn't work,' Bloomberg argued. Sanders raged back that he wasn't a 'communist,' calling the comment a 'cheap shot.' Things got even more heated when Bloomberg pointed out the Vermont senator's own wealth and property holdings. 'What a wonderful country we have. The best known socialist in the country happens to be a millionaire with three houses,' Bloomberg said. The former mayor answered, 'New York City, thank you very much.' 'And I pay all my taxes and I'm happy to do it because I get something for it,' Bloomberg added. Over the course of the debate, Bloomberg also told the candidates he would release his tax returns. 'I can't go to TurboTax,' he said, blaming his immense wealth for the delay. Amy Klobuchar jumped in at that point, pleading for transparency. 'It is a major issue because the president of the United States has been hiding behind his tax returns even when courts order him to come forward with those tax returns,' she said. Mike Bloomberg has been declared the loser of Democratic debate after Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders relentlessly attacked the former New York mayor over his past 'racist' policies and treatment of women. Six candidates took the stage Wednesday night in Las Vegas to face-off for a 5-to-1 face-off that ended disastrously for Bloomberg. Pundits chose Bloomberg as the loser after he became the object of scorn, ridicule and contempt within the first five minutes of the debate.  What is becoming an increasingly bitter nomination fight, the Democratic presidential candidates focused their attacks on Bloomberg on the debate stage. He has spent more than $400million so far on advertising that in turn has given him strong standing in state and national polls. Sanders recalled Bloomberg's support of stop-and-frisk policing targeting minorities while Warren spoke about how Bloomberg had mocked women. 'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians,' Warren said. 'And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg.' Amy Klobuchar also quipped that, 'I don't think you look at Donald Trump and say I think we need someone richer in the White House'. Former Vice President Joe Biden said Bloomberg condoned racist police practices, and Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, said Bloomberg was trying to 'buy out' the Democratic Party. But his biggest struggle came when Warren hammered him over allegations of sexism and mistreatment of women in his company. Bloomberg attempted to defend his record and deflect the attacks on him by turning them into attacks on President Donald Trump. And he effectively raised questions about whether Americans would embrace a socialist like Sanders.  But the glare was harsh, and the attacks landed with force. Even if you are worth $60billion it is hard to win a 5-on-1 fight. CNN's Chris Cillizza said the 'first hour of the debate was an absolute and total disaster for the former mayor'. 'He looked lost at times - and those were the best times for him! Warren dunked on him repeatedly. Sanders slammed him. Biden bashed him,' Cillizza wrote. Cillizza compared Bloomberg's performance to that of a pro-wrestling match where 'everyone decided to gang up on a single wrestler in the ring - and that wrestler was totally and completely caught off-guard'. At issue in all the bickering between the Democrats was electability. Bloomberg made his debate debut by calling Sanders un-electable. 'I don't think there's any chance of the senator beating President Trump. You don't start out by saying I've got 160 million people, I'm going to take away the insurance plan that they love. That's just not the way that you go and start building coalitions that the Sanders camp thinks they can do.' 'I don't think there's any chance, whatsoever, and if he goes and is the candidate we will have Donald Trump for another four years and we can't stand that.' Sanders, for his part, said that Bloomberg's 'racist' policies of the past also prevent him from building a winning Democratic coalition. 'In order to beat Donald Trump we're going to need the largest voter turnout in the history of the United States. Mr. Bloomberg had policies in New York City of stop and frisk, which went after African-American and Latino people in outrageous ways, that is not a way you can grow voter turnout,' Sanders argued.  Warren piggybackeed on this point, but made it about the women 'being muzzled' by Bloomberg's company. 'This is also a question about electability,' she said, arguing that the Democrats won't beat Trump with a man who doesn't know how many NDAs are out there lurking. 'And the drip, drip, drip of stories of women saying they have been harassed and discriminated against.'  Warren also warned that Democrats are not going to win against President Trump 'if we have a nominee who has a history of hiding his tax returns, of supporting racist policies like red-lining and stop and frisk.'  Buttigieg inserted himself as the smart choice between two extremes. 'We've got to wake up as a party. We could wake up two weeks from today, the day after Super Tuesday, and the only candidates left standing will be Bernie Sanders and Mike Bloomberg, the two most polarizing figures on this stage,' Buttigieg said. 'And most Americans don't see where they fit if they've got to choose between a socialist who thinks that capitalism is the root of all evil and a billionaire who thinks that money ought to be the root of all power,' he added. Sanders then slammed the 38-year-old mayor, as he's filled his campaign coffers from money from billionaires. 'We are saying, Pete, is maybe it's time for the working class of this country to have a little bit of power in Washington rather than your billionaire campaign contributors,' Sanders said. Klobuchar has positioned herself as the more experienced moderate in comparison to Buttigieg, boasting that she's been playing 'in the arena' while he's only been a mayor of a small town. But she got caught off-guard when a debate moderator asked her to explain how she was able to be president when she couldn't recall the name of the president of Mexico.  Buttigieg used the moment to pounce.  'You are staking your candidacy on your Washington experience. You're on the committee that oversees border security, you're on the committee that does trade. You're literally in the part of the committee that's overseeing these things,' Buttigieg said. Klobuchar wasn't pleased.  'Are you mocking me here, Pete? I said I made a mistake,' Klobuchar shot back. At another point in the debate she went at Buttigieg again. 'I wish everyone was as perfect as you, Pete,' Klobuchar said, saying Buttigieg had done little more than memorize 'a bunch of talking points.' The drama continued until the very end of the debate - and then after. As Biden was delivering his closing statement, a group of immigrant rights protesters loudly interrupted him. He had a similar encounter at a Las Vegas campaign event the night before. And as the candidates were leaving the stage after two hours of heat, Biden and Sanders appeared to have a tense moment - as the two men, who served alongside each other on Capitol Hill - pointed their fingers at one another, with Sanders stalking off.     
