politics
{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:23, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8025011/Hostility-Amy-Klobuchar-Pete-Buttigieg-boils-debate.html }
The feud between Amy Klobuchar and Pete Buttigieg boiled over in Wednesday's Democratic debate as the two moderate midwesterners attacked each other's qualifications and ended the evening with Klobuchar refusing to shake his hand. The two president candidates exchanged a series of sharp back-and-forths during the two hour debate that accumulated in Klobuchar deliberately giving Buttigieg a wide berth when the event ended, walking around him to exit the stage in such a way she would not interact with him. That also meant she didn't have to participate in the handshake candidates traditionally share when the night is over. Buttigieg gave her the side eyes as she cut around him, turning her back to him when she walked by.  Buttigieg shook hands with the other Democratic presidential contenders as he made his way off stage.    The two candidates have seen tensions rise between them after Klobuchar rose in the polls following her third place finish in the New Hampshire primary and Buttigieg has started to see his numbers drop. In a Washington Post-ABC News poll out on Wednesday, Buttigieg was at 8 per cent to Klobuchar's 7 per cent. There were multiple points during the debate the two clashed with the Minnesota senator sarcastically saying she wished she was as perfect as Buttigieg and the former mayor of South Bend criticizing her for belittling his experience.  Buttigieg attacked Klobuchar repeatedly, striking at her for her voting record in the Senate and for not knowing the name of the president of Mexico.  'I wish everyone was as perfect as you, Pete,' Klobuchar told him.   Klobuchar was touting her work on immigration issues when Buttigieg went in for the kill, criticizing her for voting for Donald Trump's head of Customs and Border Protection and for voting to make English the national language.  'If you're going to run based on your record of voting in Washington, then you have to own those votes, especially when it comes to immigration,' he told her. 'You voted to confirm the head of Customs and Border Protection under Trump, who is one of the architects of the family separation policy. You voted to make English the national language. Do you know the message that sends in as multilingual a state as Nevada to immigrants?' He also delivered a message to immigrants in Spanish, which is one of the eight languages he speaks.  That is when the Minnesota senator snapped back at him.  'I wish everyone was as perfect as you, Pete. But let me tell you what it's like to be in the arena,' she said. 'In fact, I have opposed, not supported, two-thirds of the Trump judges, so get your numbers right. And I am in the top 10 to 15 of opposing them.'   Klobuchar carried on in her defense even as the debate moderators tried to move forward to a new topic. She pointed out the head of border patrol she voted for was a career staffer supported by multiple Democrats and then hit Buttigieg as merely citing talking points.  'You have not been in the arena doing that work. You've memorized a bunch of talking points and a bunch of things, but I can tell you one thing.  What the people of this country want, they want a leader that has the heart for the immigrants of this country, and that is me,' she said. And Buttigieg struck back her tone, citing the important work mayors do.  'You know, maybe leading a diverse city that was facing ruin doesn't sound like the arena to you. I'm used to senators telling mayors that senators are more important than mayors, but this is the arena, too. You don't have to be in Washington to matter. You don't have to be on Capitol Hill for your work to be significant,' he said.  The two candidates share a common political philosophy of moderate Democrats and a political base in the Midwest.  And they are fighting to emerge as the best moderate alternative to liberal front runner Bernie Sanders.   Klobuchar was also asked about an interview she had given Telemundo where she couldn't name the president of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador. She called it a 'momentary forgetfulness.'  'I don't think that that momentary forgetfulness actually reflects what I know about Mexico and how much I care about it. And I first want to say greetings to President Lopez Obrador,' she said.  'I made an error,' Klobuchar continued. 'I think having a president that maybe is humble and is able to admit that here and there maybe wouldn't be a bad thing.'  But Buttigieg pushed back, pointing out she serves on a Senate committee that deals with Mexico.  'But you're staking your candidacy on your Washington experience. You're on the committee that oversees border security. You're on the committee that does trade. You're literally in part of the committee that's overseeing these things and were not able to speak to literally the first thing about the politics of the country to our south,' he said. 'Are you trying to say that I'm dumb? Or are you mocking me here, Pete?,' Klobuchar responded. 'I'm saying you shouldn't trivialize that knowledge,' he said. 'I said I made an error. People sometimes forget names,' she said. 'He's basically saying that I don't have the experience to be president of the United States. I have passed over 100 bills as the lead Democrat since being in the U.S. Senate. I am the one, not you, that has won statewide in congressional district after congressional district. And I will say, when you tried in Indiana, Pete, to run, what happened to you? You lost by over 20 points to someone who later lost to my friend, Joe Donnelly. So don't tell me about experience. What unites us here is we want to win. And I think we should put a proven winner in charge of the ticket.'  Buttigieg didn't hold back in his response.  'This is a race for president. This is a race for president. If winning a race for Senate in Minnesota translated directly to becoming president, I would have grown up under the presidency of Walter Mondale. This is different,' he said.  But it was Elizabeth Warren who got in the last word when she defended Klobuchar. 'Can I just defend Senator Klobuchar for a minute? This is not right. I understand she forgot a name,' Warren said. 'It happens. It happens to everybody on this stage.'  The audience applauded her.  
