politics
{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter and Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter In Las Vegas and Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter In Las Vegas For Dailymail.com   Published:  13:13, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8024765/Mike-Bloomberg-shrugs-beatdown-Las-Vegas-debate-campaign-says-hes-just-warming-up.html }
Michael Bloomberg shrugged off his ghastly debate performance with his campaign vowing he's just 'warming up' after the former mayor was universally panned for his stage debut. 'You know you are a winner when you are drawing attacks from all the candidates. Everyone came to destroy Mike tonight. It didn’t happen,' Bloomberg's campaign manager Kevin Sheekey said in a statement after the debate. 'He was just warming up tonight,' Sheekey added. The general consensus was Bloomberg bombed in Wednesday night's debate, his first time appearing with his rivals for the Democratic nomination.  He was subjected to repeated pummeling from the other contenders, who attacked him on his record with women, his treatment of minorities, his time as mayor and the billions he made as a businessman. But the former mayor kept on with business as usual. He rolled out three new congressional endorsements Thursday morning: Democratic Reps. Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, Nita Lowey of New York and Pete Aguilar of California. Those bring Bloomberg's total congressional endorsements to 15, behind only Joe Biden. And he'll be campaigning in Salt Lake City Thursday but he notably did not appear on any of the morning shows to defend his performance.  Bloomberg's stiff and testy manner on the Las Vegas stage led to questions about the viability of his campaign and if it can last past Super Tuesday, where the former mayor is banking on winning a majority of delegates when 14 states hold their primaries.  The criticism, however, has not lightened up. Even President Donald Trump weighed in via Twitter Thursday morning, warning a Washington Post reporter who misspelled Bloomberg's name as 'Bloombefg' to 'learn how to spell the name Bloomberg before it is too late & he is gone!' The president also retweeted a video clip of an older interview Bloomberg gave to Fox News where he called Trump a 'New York icon.' 'This is the REAL Mini Mike. He admitted, many times, that he is “a fan of Donald Trump. He’s a New York ICON.” Thank you Mike!,' the president wrote.  And he got in a third jab, retweeting a video that shows Bloomberg dwarfed by a podium with this jab: 'This makes Mini Mike look good compared to his performance last night. Worst debate performance in history!'  Elizabeth Warren, who led the attacks against Bloomberg on Wednesday night, said he would probably spend more of his billions to counter his poor debate performance.  'I have no doubt that he is about to drop, tonight, another million dollars on his campaign ... in order to try to erase America’s memory of what happened on that debate stage,' she told MSNBC. Bloomberg, who is worth $64 billion, has dropped $124 million in advertising across the 14 Super Tuesday states alone. The Massachusetts senator also said she went against Bloomberg so aggressively so voters could see 'exactly who that man is.'  ‘I thought it was important for everybody to see exactly who that man is,” she told reporters after the debate. “This is a man who has evidently harassed women, discriminated against women and then covered it up with non disclosure agreements.’ And she added of the former mayor: “Put your money in but take your ego off the stage.' Bloomberg came under fire from his rivals for not campaigning in the early voting states of Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina, where the tradition of retail politics tests candidates' messaging and staying power.  The former mayor has instead looked ahead to Super Tuesday and let an army of campaign ads speak for him. Bloomberg has spent $400 million on television, radio and online ads.  'I don't think he was coached hard enough," Andrew Yang, who dropped out of the presidential race after a poor showing in the New Hampshire primary, told CNN of Bloomberg. 'He was clearly instructed to keep his cool no matter what but that ended up presenting as lethargic and uninterested.' And Tom Steyer, who's running for the Democratic nomination but did not qualify for the Las Vegas debate stage, got in a shot at Bloomberg's past as a Republican.  'One lesson from tonight — looks like Mike Bloomberg might be running in the wrong primary' he tweeted.  Bloomberg was welcomed to the debate stage with a series of attacks, led by Warren and Bernie Sanders who were relentless in their pummeling of him.  'As I said to Mike Bloomberg walking out, welcome to the party man,' Joe Biden told MSNBC after the debate.  It was Warren - and not Sanders - who landed the opening jab, quoting Trump-ish comments the billionaire candidate had made about women in the past.   Warren, focused on Bloomberg's previous comments, said: 'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians. And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg'.   Warren hit the former mayor even harder when it came to his refusal to release women from nondisclosure agreements with his company, regarding complaints of a hostile working environment.   Bloomberg said that at his company if anybody does anything wrong, 'we investigate it and if it's appropriate, they're gone that day.' He also talked about the many women in power in the Bloomberg organization.   'I heard you heard what his defense was: 'I've been nice to some women,'' Warren shot back. 'That just doesn't cut it. The mayor has to stand on his record. What we need to know is exactly what's lurking out there.' She asked how many NDAs were out there. 'We have a very few nondisclosure agreements,' Bloomberg responded. But Warren wouldn't let up, demanding to know 'how many is that?' 'None of them accuse me of doing anything other than maybe they didn't like a joke I told,' Bloomberg said as the audience gasped. President Trump was quick to take to Twitter on Wednesday night where he criticized former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg's performance during his first Democratic debate.   'Mini Mike Bloomberg's debate performance tonight was perhaps the worst in the history of debates, and there have been some really bad ones,' Trump tweeted. 'He was stumbling, bumbling and grossly incompetent. If this doesn't knock him out of the race, nothing will. Not so easy to do what I did!' The President also lambasted Bloomberg while at an Arizona campaign rally.   'I hear he is getting pounded tonight,' Trump said as he spoke while the debate was in progress.    Later in the rally, speaking of Bernie Sanders, Trump asked the crowd: 'How's he doing tonight?'  The president also repeated some of his tweets mocking Bloomberg's height during the rally.   'He spent $500 million so far, and I think he has 15 points,' Trump said as he attempted to downplay the prospect of being outspent by the billionaire. 'My father would teach me if you can spend less and win, that's better than spending a lot.' Trump finished his speech in Phoenix just as Democrats were wrapping up their debate in Las Vegas.     Bloomberg stood his ground, even with Joe Biden also asserted himself. 'Let's get something straight here. It's easy. All the mayor has to do is say you are released from the nondisclosure agreement, period,' the former vice president said. Bloomberg said he would not. There have been reports of several lawsuits that accuse Bloomberg of making crude comments in the 1990s and creating an uncomfortable work environment for women. He has denied the allegations. And his campaign fired off a response during the debate back-and-forth, noting the names of women who have endorsed Bloomberg and saying any large company was going to have complaints.  While his fellow Democrats laid into him, away from the debate, President Trump took to Twitter to give his two cents, saying he was 'stumbling', 'bumbling', and 'grossly incompetent' in his debut Democratic showdown.  The next weapon for the challengers was that Bloomberg is very rich.  The ex-mayor, who's worth $61 million, said billionaires like him deserve to exist. 'Yes,' Bloomberg answered point-blank. 'I worked very hard for it.' Sanders had suggested that Bloomberg's wealth was a policy failure, with rich donors pushing lawmakers to allow for the tax code to tilt toward billionaires, while other Americans are living on the streets. 'I can't speak for all billionaires, all I know is I've been very lucky, made a lot of money and I'm giving it all away to make this country better,' Bloomberg said. 'A good chunk of it goes to the Democratic Party as well,' he added. Bloomberg chided Warren and Sanders over the anti-wealth talk. 'We're not going to throw out capitalism. We tried that. Other countries tried that, it was called "communism" and it just doesn't work,' Bloomberg argued. Sanders raged back that he wasn't a 'communist,' calling the comment a 'cheap shot.' Things got even more heated when Bloomberg pointed out the Vermont senator's own wealth and property holdings. 'What a wonderful country we have. The best known socialist in the country happens to be a millionaire with three houses,' Bloomberg said. The former mayor answered, 'New York City, thank you very much.' 'And I pay all my taxes and I'm happy to do it because I get something for it,' Bloomberg added. Over the course of the debate, Bloomberg also told the candidates he would release his tax returns. 'I can't go to TurboTax,' he said, blaming his immense wealth for the delay. Amy Klobuchar jumped in at that point, pleading for transparency. 'It is a major issue because the president of the United States has been hiding behind his tax returns even when courts order him to come forward with those tax returns,' she said. Mike Bloomberg has been declared the loser of Democratic debate after Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders relentlessly attacked the former New York mayor over his past 'racist' policies and treatment of women. Six candidates took the stage Wednesday night in Las Vegas to face-off for a 5-to-1 face-off that ended disastrously for Bloomberg. Pundits chose Bloomberg as the loser after he became the object of scorn, ridicule and contempt within the first five minutes of the debate.  What is becoming an increasingly bitter nomination fight, the Democratic presidential candidates focused their attacks on Bloomberg on the debate stage. He has spent more than $400million so far on advertising that in turn has given him strong standing in state and national polls. Sanders recalled Bloomberg's support of stop-and-frisk policing targeting minorities while Warren spoke about how Bloomberg had mocked women. 'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians,' Warren said. 'And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg.' Amy Klobuchar also quipped that, 'I don't think you look at Donald Trump and say I think we need someone richer in the White House'. Former Vice President Joe Biden said Bloomberg condoned racist police practices, and Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, said Bloomberg was trying to 'buy out' the Democratic Party. But his biggest struggle came when Warren hammered him over allegations of sexism and mistreatment of women in his company. Bloomberg attempted to defend his record and deflect the attacks on him by turning them into attacks on President Donald Trump. And he effectively raised questions about whether Americans would embrace a socialist like Sanders.  But the glare was harsh, and the attacks landed with force. Even if you are worth $60billion it is hard to win a 5-on-1 fight. CNN's Chris Cillizza said the 'first hour of the debate was an absolute and total disaster for the former mayor'. 'He looked lost at times - and those were the best times for him! Warren dunked on him repeatedly. Sanders slammed him. Biden bashed him,' Cillizza wrote. Cillizza compared Bloomberg's performance to that of a pro-wrestling match where 'everyone decided to gang up on a single wrestler in the ring - and that wrestler was totally and completely caught off-guard'. At issue in all the bickering between the Democrats was electability. Bloomberg made his debate debut by calling Sanders un-electable. 'I don't think there's any chance of the senator beating President Trump. You don't start out by saying I've got 160 million people, I'm going to take away the insurance plan that they love. That's just not the way that you go and start building coalitions that the Sanders camp thinks they can do.' 'I don't think there's any chance, whatsoever, and if he goes and is the candidate we will have Donald Trump for another four years and we can't stand that.' Sanders, for his part, said that Bloomberg's 'racist' policies of the past also prevent him from building a winning Democratic coalition. 'In order to beat Donald Trump we're going to need the largest voter turnout in the history of the United States. Mr. Bloomberg had policies in New York City of stop and frisk, which went after African-American and Latino people in outrageous ways, that is not a way you can grow voter turnout,' Sanders argued.  Warren piggybackeed on this point, but made it about the women 'being muzzled' by Bloomberg's company. 'This is also a question about electability,' she said, arguing that the Democrats won't beat Trump with a man who doesn't know how many NDAs are out there lurking. 'And the drip, drip, drip of stories of women saying they have been harassed and discriminated against.'  Warren also warned that Democrats are not going to win against President Trump 'if we have a nominee who has a history of hiding his tax returns, of supporting racist policies like red-lining and stop and frisk.'  Buttigieg inserted himself as the smart choice between two extremes. 'We've got to wake up as a party. We could wake up two weeks from today, the day after Super Tuesday, and the only candidates left standing will be Bernie Sanders and Mike Bloomberg, the two most polarizing figures on this stage,' Buttigieg said. 'And most Americans don't see where they fit if they've got to choose between a socialist who thinks that capitalism is the root of all evil and a billionaire who thinks that money ought to be the root of all power,' he added. Sanders then slammed the 38-year-old mayor, as he's filled his campaign coffers from money from billionaires. 'We are saying, Pete, is maybe it's time for the working class of this country to have a little bit of power in Washington rather than your billionaire campaign contributors,' Sanders said. Klobuchar has positioned herself as the more experienced moderate in comparison to Buttigieg, boasting that she's been playing 'in the arena' while he's only been a mayor of a small town. But she got caught off-guard when a debate moderator asked her to explain how she was able to be president when she couldn't recall the name of the president of Mexico.  Buttigieg used the moment to pounce.  'You are staking your candidacy on your Washington experience. You're on the committee that oversees border security, you're on the committee that does trade. You're literally in the part of the committee that's overseeing these things,' Buttigieg said. Klobuchar wasn't pleased.  'Are you mocking me here, Pete? I said I made a mistake,' Klobuchar shot back. At another point in the debate she went at Buttigieg again. 'I wish everyone was as perfect as you, Pete,' Klobuchar said, saying Buttigieg had done little more than memorize 'a bunch of talking points.' The drama continued until the very end of the debate - and then after. As Biden was delivering his closing statement, a group of immigrant rights protesters loudly interrupted him. He had a similar encounter at a Las Vegas campaign event the night before. And as the candidates were leaving the stage after two hours of heat, Biden and Sanders appeared to have a tense moment - as the two men, who served alongside each other on Capitol Hill - pointed their fingers at one another, with Sanders stalking off.  Democrats still divided over healthcare   Warren kept the aggressive stance she began in the debate by pivoting from attacking Bloomberg to hitting her other Democratic rivals on their healthcare plans. Polls show healthcare is a top concern among voters. The Massachusetts senator slammed her rivals for having plans that were a 'power point' or the equivalent of a 'post-it note.' Her comments set off a back-and-forth among the candidates that contained a mix of mocking quips with sharp attacks and allowed Biden to swoop in and announce he was the only person on the stage who got something done. 'We need to get everybody's health care plan out here,' Warren said. And then she went on to attack her rivals' plans by name. 'Mayor Buttigieg really has a slogan that was thought up by his consultants to paper over a thin version of a plan that would leave millions of people unable to afford their health care. It's not a plan, it's a power point. And Amy's plan is even less,' she said.  It's like a post-it note - insert plan here. Bernie has started very much has a good start, but instead of expanding and bringing in more people to help, instead his campaign relentlessly attacks everyone who asks a question or tries to fill in details about how to actually make this work.' Michael Bloomberg was also criticized by Bernie Sanders, who said the former New York mayor's 'racist' policies of the past also prevent him from building a winning Democratic coalition.  NBC's Chuck Todd, one of the moderators, pleaded for calm. 'Guys, I'm going to get everybody,' he reassured them. 'Mayor Buttigieg - she name checked you first.' 'She name checked me second,' Sanders objected. 'Yes. Okay,' Todd said and then motioned for Buttigieg to speak. 'I'm more of a Microsoft word guy,' Buttigieg quipped. 'If you look at my plan, I don't know if there are any power points on it but you can find the document on peteforamerica.com. You'll see it is a plan that solves the problem, makes sure there is no such thing as an uninsured American and doesn't kick anyone off the plan they have. 'This idea that the union members don't know what's good for them is the exact kind of condescension that makes people skeptical. The American people are ready in a way far beyond what was true ten years ago and what was available to President Obama at the time.' Todd then called on Klobuchar, telling Sanders: 'I think the post-it note came first, senator.' 'I must say I take personal offense since post-it notes were invented in my state,' Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, noted. 'My plan is a public option,' she continued. 'According to all the studies out there, it would reduce premiums for 12 million people immediately. It would expand coverage for about that same number. It is a significant thing. It is what Barack Obama wanted to do from the very beginning. 'And the way I look at it since we're in Vegas, when it comes to your plan, Elizabeth and Bernie's on Medicare For All, you don't put your money on a number that's not even on the wheel. And why is Medicare For All not on the wheel? Why is it not on the wheel? Because two-thirds of the Democratic senators are not even on that bill, because a bunch of the new House members that got elected see the problems with blowing up the Affordable Care Act. 'They see it right in front of them. And the truth is that when you see some troubled waters, you don't blow up a bridge, you build one. We need to improve the Affordable Care Act, not blow it up.' Todd let Sanders go next, with the candidate name-checking several countries that have implemented universal healthcare planes. 'Somehow or another Canada can provide universal health care to all their people at half the cost. U.K. can do it, France can do it, Germany could, all of Europe can do it. Gee whiz, somehow or another we are the only major country on Earth that can't do it,' he said. 'Why is that? I'll tell you why. It's because last year the health care industry made $100 billion in profits. Pharmaceutical industry, top six companies, $69 billion in profit. Those CEOs are contributing to Pete's campaign and other campaigns up here,' the Vermont senator said. And that is when Biden, who was vice president when Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law, chimed in. 'I'm the only one on this stage that actually got anything done on health care, okay? I'm the guy the president turned to and said 'Go get the votes for Obamacare.' I notice what everybody's talking about is the plan that I first introduced,' he said. Attacks on Bloomberg ramped up ahead of the Democratic Debate Ahead of the debate, the criticism against Bloomberg had already started. In a tweet on Tuesday, Warren said: 'It's a shame Mike Bloomberg can buy his way into the debate. But at least now primary voters curious about how each candidate will take on Donald Trump can get a live demonstration of how we can take on an egomaniac billionaire.'  Buttigieg has echoed criticism that the billionaire Bloomberg, who is self-funding his campaign, is trying to buy the White House.   'Yes. I mean, what else do you call it?,' the former South Bend mayor told CNN Tuesday night when asked if Bloomberg was trying to buy his way in. 'What else do you call it when you dip into your endless reserves of millions and billions and don't go through the process of campaigning in states like Nevada or Iowa or New Hampshire, humbling yourself, going into the diners and the backyards, looking eye to eye to voters?'  The former New York City mayor has spent $300 million on television and digital ads thus far, most of them designed to get under Trump's skin. Bloomberg has said he's open to spending up to $1 billion on the race. And despite appearing on the Las Vegas debate stage, Bloomberg isn't participating in Saturday's Nevada caucuses. He has opted to skip the first four voting states to focus on Super Tuesday when 14 states vote on March 3 and one-third of the delegates need for the nomination are awarded.   Klobuchar also argued Bloomberg hasn't been heard by voters. 'I don't think you should just be able to buy your way to the presidency,' she told CNN Tuesday night. 'We've been answering questions. We have been going to states like Nevada and actually meeting the voters and having them quiz us and ask all kind of things, and put our policies out there. And I think that is what a presidential candidate should do. So, you know, I don't mind that he has this money, that's a great thing he made that money. But we want to make sure that we have the best candidate to lead the ticket.' She added: 'I don't think that when people look at Donald Trump they automatically say, hmm, can we get someone richer?'  On Wednesday, Biden said he'd tell the 'truth' about Bloomberg when they face off on the debate stage.  'The truth is he's basically been a Republican his whole life,' Biden told reporters at a Culinary Workers Union strike outside The Palm hotel in Las Vegas. 'The fact of the matter is he didn't endorse Barack or me when we ran.' 'This is a guy talking about, using Barack's pictures like they're good buddies,' Biden said, pointing to a Bloomberg television ad that shows President Obama complimenting the ex-mayor. 'I'm going to talk about his record.'  Bloomberg's 'stop and frisk' policies in New York were already under the spotlight  Biden has also criticized the former mayor for some of his policies directed toward minorities from when he ran New York City. It's an area where the former vice president has strength among voters.  'Sixty billion dollars can buy you a lot of advertising, but it can't erase your record. There's a lot to talk about with Michael Bloomberg,' Biden told NBC's 'Meet the Press' on Sunday. 'You take a look at the 'stop-and-frisk' proposals. You take a look at his ideas on redlining he's talking about. You take a look at what he's done relative to the African American community. I'm anxious to debate Michael on the issues relating to, you know, what we're going to face in Super Tuesday.' 'It's going to be awful hard to go out and win those — the base support of the Democratic Party, the African Americans, Latinos and working-class white folks — and put that coalition together. That's how you win an election. You put that coalition together,' Biden said.     Sanders, who has taken the lead for the nomination in several recent polls, said Bloomberg shouldn't be able to buy the election. 'Mr. Bloomberg has ever right in the world to run for president of the United States. He's an American citizen. But I don't think he has the right to buy this election,' he said Tuesday night at a CNN town hall. The Vermont senator also indicated he'd attack his rival on more than money, however. He criticized Bloomberg for supporting policies such as 'stop and frisk' when he was mayor of New York. 'His policies humiliated and offended hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people. And I think that is something that is worthy of discussion,' Sanders said. Sanders tries to cement himself as Democratic frontrunner  The debate comes as Sanders is trying to cement himself as the party's frontrunner, while Biden - long considered the frontrunner - has to prove that his campaign is back on track after fourth and fifth place losses in Iowa and New Hampshire.  Jeff Weaver, a senior adviser to the Sanders campaign, previewed how the Vermont senator would react to the addition of Bloomberg.     'In many ways running as Mike Bloomberg is like Donald Trump. Right? You know you have a sort of very wealthy New York business person turned political dilettante who believes he's entitled to the White House,' Weaver told DailyMail.com at a campaign event Tuesday.  'You know the contempt that Mike Bloomberg has shown for voters in this process is palpable,' Weaver continued.  The top Sanders adviser said Bloomberg shouldn't have been able to skip the first four contests to focus on Super Tuesday instead.  Weaver argued participating in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina is important because candidates are 'expected to stand in people's living rooms and go to diners and meet with small groups and small party clutches and what have you.'  'He's skipping all that because he just wants to put half a billion or a billion in TV and win the thing,' Weaver said. 'He is the epitome of sort of the entitled, elite ruling class and how they expect everybody else to bow and scrape for them,' Weaver added. 'And that's just not what's going to happen.' Sanders has been hammering Bloomberg for weeks for trying to buy the election, though at a CNN town hall Tuesday night he wouldn't guarantee he wouldn't take Bloomberg's money, which the billionaire candidate promised to the Democratic nominee, should he not be chosen for the job himself.    'I don't think we're going to need that money,' Sanders eventually said. 'Because, interestingly enough, I think when you have an agenda as we have that speaks to the needs of working families, you're going to have millions and millions and millions of people chipping in 10 bucks apiece, 50 bucks apiece, and that's how you're going to raise the money you need to defeat Trump.'  Sanders has sprung to the lead for the nomination in the RealClearPolitics polling average on the race with Biden in second and Bloomberg in third.  Democratic candidates each hoping for 'break out moment' on the debate stage  The Democrats gather Wednesday night as the pressure increases for a break out moment, one that could bring in the donations and attention needed to keep their campaign going through the next round of voting. And the debate will see one of the smallest gathering of candidates to date as the Democratic National Committee charged the qualifications needed to make the stage. In the first eight debates, candidates had to meet polling and fundraising thresholds to qualify for the stage, but the DNC nixed the fundraising requirements for Wednesday night's meeting. Some critics argue this was an establishment decision to let Bloomberg make the stage after the billionaire vowed not to take any contributions and solely fund his presidential campaign.  Candidates instead could qualify three different ways: by earning 10 per cent or more in four national, Nevada or South Carolina polls; getting 12 per cent or more in two Nevada or South Carolina polls; or by earning at least one delegate in the first-in-the-nation Iowa caucuses or New Hampshire primary election. Bloomberg made the stage by qualifying in the polls a day before the debate and Klobuchar qualified by earning six delegates in New Hampshire and one in Iowa. All the other candidates qualified both in delegates and polling thresholds. Democratic Natioanal Committee Chairman Tom Perez pushed back Wednesday on the assertion that Bloomberg bought his way onto the stage.  'We were very clear as early as last fall that once people started voting we were going to evolve the rules to reflect the fact that people have voted,' Perez told reporters in Las Vegas. 'Our job is to put the most viable candidates on the debate stage as measured by the polling of the moment and by how well you've done.'  'If you've accumulated delegates that means you've gotten 15 per cent of the vote in at least one congressional district,' Perez added. 'This is not a new criteria for debate participation - polling - this is what has been done all along.' 'And for those who have concerns that one candidate or other candidates can buy their way on, the remedy is to vote,' Perez said.  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Billionaire Mike Bloomberg attacks Bernie Sanders for wanting to abandon capitalism, saying COMMUNISM failed - then mocks him for having 'three houses'  Bernie Sanders and Mike Bloomberg locked horns on political philosophy in Wednesday's Democratic presidential debate, arguing over who's a communist and who's a socialist. Their bickering over Bloomberg's billions and Sanders' millions descended into a fight over who owned more homes during a contentious debate where the entire stage of candidates ganged up on the former New York City mayor and the Vermont senator found himself a target after becoming the frontrunner for the Democratic nomination.   Bloomberg was defending his net worth, estimated to be around $64 billion, pointing out he earned it through 'hard work' and that he was giving his money away when Sanders argued the workers helped make that money.  'Mr. Bloomberg, it wasn't you who made all that money. Maybe your workers played some role in that as well,' the Vermont senator said. 'And it is important those workers are able to share the benefits also. When we have so many people who go to work every day and they feel not good about their jobs. They feel like cogs in a machine. I want workers to be able to sit on corporate boards as well so they can have some say over what happens to their lives.'  The former New York City mayor then accused Sanders, a self-described Democratic socialist, of being a communist.  'I can't think of a ways that would make it easier for Donald Trump to get reelected than listening to this conversation. This is ridiculous. We're not going to throw out capitalism. It was called communism and it just didn't work,' Bloomberg said. Democratic socialists believe the means of production should be collectively owned alongside a democratic political system of government. Communism advocates for the common ownership of the means of production and the absence of social classes, money and state. Sanders, who is worth $2.5 million according to Forbes, accused Bloomberg of taking a 'cheap shot' against him.  'Let's talk about democratic socialism, not communism, Mr. Bloomberg. That's a cheap shot,' he said.  The two men represent the opposing ends of the Democratic Party - Bloomberg for the moderates and Sanders for the liberals.  And they are both fighting to get their supporters to help them win the nomination.  Bloomberg didn't let up against Sanders, pointing out the senator owns three homes.  'What a wonderful country we have. The best known socialist in the country happens to be a millionaire with three houses. What did I miss here?,' the former mayor said. Sanders outlined the three homes he owns. 'I work in Washington, house one. Live in Burlington, house two. Like thousands of other Vermonters, I have a summer camp. Which tax haven is your home?,' he shot back.  'New York City, thank you very much,' Bloomberg snapped back, 'and I pay all my taxes and I'm happy to do it because I get something for it.'  The first debate featuring Bloomberg found the former mayor defending his record on race and gender amid his defense of the billions he made as a businessman in New York.   Sanders, who has taken the lead in the recent national polls on the race, had to defend his health and his ability to beat Donald Trump in November. The debate, held in Las Vegas, comes three days before the Nevada caucuses - the third nominating contest for Democrats. Bloomberg may be on the debate stage but he won't be participating in the caucuses. He's skipping the first four voting states to focus on Super Tuesday - the March 3 date where 14 states pick one-third of the delegates needed for the nomination. While most of the hits were against Bloomberg, all of the candidates came under fire from one another and they all ended up on the defense at one point or another during the two-hour event.  'This has been quite a debate,' Amy Klobuchar said at its conclusion.  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   'I can't use TurboTax!' Mike Bloomberg says he WILL publish 'thousands of pages' of tax returns and says, YES, I deserve my $61 billion because 'I worked very hard for it' Mike Bloomberg said he will release his tax returns - it's just taking a long time thanks to his tremendous wealth, which he also told a crowd of Democratic voters that he deserves.   'I make a lot of money and we do business all around the world and we are preparing - the number of pages will probably be thousands of pages, I can't go to TurboTax,' Bloomberg said.    When asked if he, as someone who is worth approximately $61 billion, should exist, the former New York City mayor answered in the affirmative.  'Yes,' he answered point-blank. 'I worked very hard for it.'        With Bernie Sanders leading the charge, the Democratic presidential hopefuls took on Bloomberg during his debate debut, especially over his enormous wealth, with the Vermont senator charging that American tax policy pushed by rich political donors allowed billionaires like the ex-mayor to balloon their coffers while others are living on the streets.   'I can't speak for all billionaires, all I know is I've been very lucky, made a lot of money and I'm giving it all away to make this country better,' Bloomberg said. 'A good chunk of it goes to the Democratic Party as well,' the debate stage newcomer added.   Bloomberg was asked about his tax returns during a portion of the Las Vegas Democratic debates where the candidates were calling each other out for lacking transparency in various ways.  'It just takes a long time,' Bloomberg said when the subject veered from Bernie Sanders' health records to the billionaire candidate's taxes.  Bloomberg pointed out that he had a history of releasing his returns, having served three terms as the mayor of New York City.  'I put out my tax return every year for 12 years in City Hall, we will put out this one,' Bloomberg said. 'It will tell everybody everything they need to know about every investment that I make and where the money goes.'  He then made the point that the bulk of his wealth goes to charity.  'The biggest item is all the money I give away,' Bloomberg said. 'We list that, every single donation I make. You can get that from our foundation any time you want.'  Bloomberg's debut on the debate stage played out like a game of whack-a-mole, with Bloomberg, the former Republican billionaire mayor, as the sole mole.  'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians. And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg,' said Elizabeth Warren in her opening salvo.  It was Amy Klobuchar who hammered him over tax returns.   'I'm just looking at my husband in the front row that has to do our taxes all the time,' she said. 'We probably could go to TurboTax.' 'The point of this is I believe in transparency,' the Minnesota senator went on.  She pointed out that all the other Democratic candidates had already released their returns.  Bloomberg was the last of the major candidates to enter the race, making his announcement in late November 2019.  'It is a major issue because the president of the United States has been hiding behind his tax returns even when courts order him to come forward with those tax returns,' she said.    She then turned from President Trump back to Bloomberg.  'I don't care how much money anyone has,' Klobuchar said. 'I think it's great you've got a lot of money, but I think you've got to come forward with your tax returns.'       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Joe Biden laces into Mike Bloomberg's 'ABHORRENT' stop-and-frisk policy as former New York mayor says he did it to bring down crime  Mike Bloomberg was forced to face implemented racist stop and frisk policies as fellow candidates on stage at the debate Wednesday night took aim at the former mayor of New York City. 'Well, if I go back and look at my time in office, the one thing that I'm really worried about – embarrassed about – was how it turned out with stop and frisk,' he admitted. Even though the billionaire expressed regret, he claimed that the policy was effective in reducing crime in American's most populated city and tried to write it off as a mistake he had already apologized for. 'When I got into office, there were 650 murders a year in New York City, and I thought that my first responsibility was to give people the right to live,' Bloomberg explained in defending implementing the practice. 'That's the basic right of everything.' In the most fiery debate yet of the 2020 primary season, Bloomberg, who was making his first debate appearance, faced an onslaught of attacks from his Democratic challengers.  Former Vice President Joe Biden called the stop and frisks 'abhorrent' and the former mayor admitted that it 'got out of control.' 'When we discovered – I discovered – that we were doing many, many – too many – stop and frisks, we cut 95 per cent of it out,' Bloomberg asserted. The former mayor said he is and was trying to 'learn' how to change policies to help continuing reduce crime in New York City. 'I've sat down with a bunch of African-American clergy and business people to talk about this to try to learn. I've talked to a number of kids who have been stopped. And I'm trying – was trying to understand how we change our policy so we can keep the city safe because the crime rate did go from 650, 50 per cent down to 300. And We have to keep a lid on crime, but we cannot go out and stop people discriminately,' he said. Biden hit back at Bloomberg, claiming he couldn't apologize it away and said it violated every right people posses. 'Let's get something straight. The reason that stop and frisk changed is because Barack Obama sent moderators to see what was going on. When we sent them there to say 'this practice has to stop,' the mayor thought it was a terrible idea we send them there – a terrible idea,' Biden said, invoking the name of one of the most famous Democrats. 'It's not whether he apologized or not, it's the policy. The policy was abhorrent, and it was, in fact, a violation of every right people have,' he said, claiming Bloomberg pushed back against stopping the policies. 'He figured out it was a bad idea after we sent in monitors and said it must stop. Even then he continued the policy,' Biden said on stage at the ninth Democratic primary debate. Bloomberg, a newcomer who launched his campaign in mid-November, qualified for the debate stage Tuesday and became the common enemy of the rest of the Democrats on stage.  But the 78-year-old billionaire, who is self-funding his campaign, asserted the best he could do is apologize for his past and promise to do better in the future. 'I've sat, I've apologized, I've asked for forgiveness, but the bottom line is we stopped too many people, and we've got to make sure that we do something about criminal justice in this country,' Bloomberg explained. 'There is no great answer to a lot of these problems. If we took off everybody that was wrong off this panel, everybody that was wrong on criminal justice at some time in their careers, there'd be nobody else up here,' he said of the five other candidates on stage. It was clear that Bloomberg would face questions over stop and frisk, a policy that has been widely denounced as racist. Former South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg said Tuesday that Bloomberg would need to answer for the way he has treated different groups and people. 'I think he has to answer for his treatment of others, for his language and above all for an attitude that seems to have dismissed the humanity of a lot of people,' Buttigieg said in an interview with NBC Nightly News.     JOE BIDEN Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 78 Entered race: April 25, 2019 Career: No current role. A University of Delaware and Syracuse Law graduate, he was first elected to Newcastle City Council in 1969, then won upset election to Senate in 1972, aged 29. Was talked out of quitting before being sworn in when his wife and daughter died in a car crash and served total of six terms. Chaired Judiciary Committee's notorious Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings. Ran for president in 1988, pulled out after plagiarism scandal, ran again in 2008, withdrew after placing fifth in the Iowa Caucuses. Tapped by Obama as his running mate and served two terms as vice president. Contemplated third run in 2016 but decided against it after his son died of brain cancer. Family: Eldest of four siblings born to Joe Biden Sr. and Catherine Finnegan. First wife Neilia Hunter and their one-year-old daughter Naomi died in car crash which their two sons, Joseph 'Beau' and Robert Hunter survived. Married Jill Jacobs in 1976, with whom he has daughter Ashley. Beau died of brain cancer in 2015. Hunter's marriage to Kathleen Buhle, with whom he has three children, ended in 2016 when it emerged Hunter was in a relationship with Beau's widow Hallie, mother of their two children. Hunter admitted cocaine use; his estranged wife accused him of blowing their savings on drugs and prostitutes Religion: Catholic Views on key issues: Ultra-moderate who will emphasize bipartisan record. Will come under fire over record, having voted: to stop desegregation bussing in 1975; to overturn Roe v Wade in 1981; for now controversial 1994 Violent Crime Act; for 2003 Iraq War; and for banking deregulation. Says he is 'most progressive' Democrat. New positions include free college, tax reform, $15 minimum wage. No public position yet on Green New Deal and healthcare. Pro-gun control. Has already apologized to women who say he touched them inappropriately Would make history as: Oldest person elected president Slogan: Our Best Days Still Lie Ahead MIKE BLOOMBERG Age on Inauguration Day: 78 Entered race: November 24, 2019 Career: Currently multi-billionaire CEO of Bloomberg PL, the financial information firm he founded in 1981 and which remains a private company. Educated at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, he became a Wall Street trader at investment bank Salomon Brothers and was laid off in 1981, walking away with $10m in stock which he used to set up his own financial information firm, now one of the world's largest. Three times mayor of New York 2002 to 2013, running first as Republican then as independent; had to get term limits suspended for final term. Once flirted with running for mayor of London where he has a home; holds an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth. Has spent large amounts on philanthropy in line with his political views as well as on political campaigns Family: Born in Brookline, MA, to first-generation Jewish immigrant parents whose own parents had fled Russia. Divorced wife of 18 years, Susan Brown-Meyer, in 1993; former couple have daughters Emma, who has a son with her former boyfriend, and Georgina, who has daughter Zelda with her husband Chris Fissora. The child has a portmanteau surname, Frissberg. Partner since 2000 is Diana Taylor, former New York state banking commissioner, 13 years his junior Religion: Jewish Views on key issues: Self-professed fiscal conservative, although painted as a Democratic moderate by other conservative groups. Opposed to Medicare for all. Social progressive who backed gay marriage early, but has flip-flopped on marijuana legalization, most recently opposing it.. Wants firm action on climate change. Fiercely in favor of gun control. As New York mayor banned smoking in public places and tried to outlaw large sugary drinks. Backs increased immigration. Apologized for his stop-and-frisk policing strategy as mayor Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president; richest president ever; first New York mayor to become president Slogan:  Fighting For Our Future PETE BUTTIGIEG Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Announced formation of exploratory committee January 23, 2019. Formally entered race April 14, 2019 Career: Currently mayor of Sound Bend, Indiana. Harvard grad and Rhodes scholar who got a second degree from Oxford before working as a McKinsey management consultant and being commissioned as a Navy Reserve intelligence officer. Elected South Bend mayor in 2011 and served in combat in 2013, won re-election in 2015 Family: Came out as gay during second mayoral run and married husband Chasten Glezman, a middle school teacher in 2018. Parents were University of Notre Dame academics; his father was Maltese-American. Surname is pronounced BOOT-edge-edge Religion: Raised as a Catholic, now Episcopalian Views on key issues: Has said Democratic party needs a 'fresh start'; wrote an essay in praise of Bernie Sanders aged 17; backed paid parental leave for city employees; other policies unknown  Would make history as: First openly gay and youngest-ever president. First veteran of post-World War II conflict  Slogan: A Fresh Start For America   TULSI GABBARD Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Still to formally file any papers but said she would run on January 11 2019 Career: Currently Hawaii congresswoman. Born on American Samoa, a territory. Raised largely in Hawaii, she co-founded an environmental non-profit with her father as a teenager and was elected to the State Legislature aged 21, its youngest member in history. Enlisted in the National Guard and served two tours, one in Iraq 2004-2006, then as an officer in Kuwait in 2009. Ran for Honolulu City Council in 2011, and House of Representatives in 2012 Family: Married to her second husband, Abraham Williams, a cinematographer since 2015. First marriage to childhood sweetheart Eduardo Tamayo in 2002 ended in 2006. Father Mike Gabbard is a Democratic Hawaii state senator, mother Carol Porter runs a non-profit. Religion: Hindu Views on key issues: Has apologized for anti-abortion and anti-gay marriage views; wants marijuana federally legalized; opposed to most U.S. foreign interventions; backs $15 minimum wage and universal health care; was the second elected Democrat to meet Trump after his 2016 victory Would make history as: First female, Hindu and Samoan-American president; youngest president ever Slogan: Lead with Love     AMY KLOBUCHAR Age on Inauguration Day: 60 Entered race: Announced candidacy February 10, 2019 at snow-drenched rally in her native Minneapolis Career: Currently Minnesota senator. Yale and University of Chicago law graduate who became a corporate lawyer. First ran unsuccessfully for office in 1994 as Hennepin, MI, county attorney, and won same race in 1998, then in 2002, without opposition. Ran for Senate in 2006 and won 58-38; re-elected in 2012 and 2018 Family: Married to John Bessler, law professor at University of Baltimore and expert on capital punishment. Daughter Abigail Bessler, 23, works fora Democratic member of New York City council. Father Jim, 90, was a veteran newspaper columnist who has written a memoir of how his alcoholism hurt his family; mom Rose is a retired grade school teacher Religion: Congregationalist (United Church of Christ) Views on key issues: Seen as a mainstream liberal: says she wants 'universal health care' but has not spelled out how; pro-gun control; pro-choice; backs $15 minimum wage; no public statements on federal marijuana legalization; has backed pro-Israel law banning the 'boycott, divestment and sanctions' movement; spoke out against abolishing ICE Would make history as: First female president Slogan: Let's Get To Work   BERNIE SANDERS Age on Inauguration Day: 79 Entered race: Sources said on January 25, 2019, that he would form exploratory committee. Officially announced February 19 Career: Currently Vermont senator. Student civil rights and anti-Vietnam activist who moved to Vermont and worked as a carpenter and radical film-maker. Serial failed political candidate in the 1970s, he ran as a socialist for mayor of Burlington in 1980 and served two terms ending in 1989, and win a seat in Congress as an independent in 1990. Ran for Senate in 2006 elections as an independent with Democratic endorsement and won third term in 2018. Challenged Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination in 2016 but lost. Campaign has since been hit by allegations of sexual harassment  - for which he has apologized - and criticized for its 'Bernie bro' culture Family: Born to a Jewish immigrant father and the daughter of Jewish immigrant parents in Brooklyn, New York. First marriage to college sweetheart Deborah Shiling Messing in 1964 ended in divorce in 1966; had son Levi in 1969 with then girlfriend Susan Cambell Mott. Married Jone O'Meara in 1988 and considers her three children, all adults, his own. The couple have seven grandchildren. His older brother Larry is a former Green Party councilor in Oxfordshire, England.  Religion: Secular Jewish  Views on key issues: Openly socialist and standard bearer for the Democratic party's left-turn. Wants federal $15 minimum wage; banks broken up; union membership encouraged; free college tuition; universal health care; re-distributive taxation; he opposed Iraq War and also U.S. leading the fight against ISIS and wants troops largely out of Afghanistan and the Middle East Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president Slogan: Not me. Us. TOM STEYER  Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 63 Entered race: July 9, 2019 Career: Currently retired. New York-born to wealthy family, he was educated at elite Phillips Exeter Academy, and Yale, then Stanford Business School. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs banker who founded his own hedge fund in 1986 and made himself a billionaire; investments included subprime lenders, private prisons and coal mines. Stepped down in 2012 to focus on advocating for alternative energy. Longtime Democratic activist and donor who started campaign to impeach Trump in October 2017. Net worth of $1.6 billion has made him one of the Democrats' biggest single donors Family: Married Kathryn Taylor in 1986; they have four adult children who have been told they will not inherit the bulk of his fortune. Announced last November he and his wife would live apart. Father Roy was a Nuremberg trials prosecutor Religion: Episcopalian Views on key issues: On the left of the field despite being a hedge fund tycoon. Backs single-payer health care, minimum wage rises and free public college. Previously spoke in favor of Bernie Sanders' agenda. Aggressive backer of climate change action, including ditching fossil fuels Would make history as: Richest Democratic president ever Slogan: Actions Speak Louder Than Words   ELIZABETH WARREN Age on Inauguration Day: 71 Entered race:  Set up exploratory committee December 31, 2018 Career: Currently Massachusetts senator. Law lecturer and academic who became an expert on bankruptcy law and tenured Harvard professor. Ran for Senate and won in 2012, defeating sitting Republican Scott Brown, held it in 2018 60% to 36%. Was short-listed to be Hillary's running mate and campaigned hard for her in 2016 Family: Twice-married mother of two and grandmother of three. First husband and father of her children was her high-school sweetheart. Second husband Bruce Mann is Harvard law professor. Daughter Amelia Tyagi and son Alex Warren have both been involved in her campaigns. Has controversially claimed Native American roots; DNA test suggested she is as little as 1,064th Native American Religion: Raised Methodist, now described as Christian with no fixed church Views on key issues: Was a registered Republican who voted for the party but registered as a Democrat in 1996. Pro: higher taxes on rich; banking regulation; Dream Act path to citizenship for 'dreamers'; abortion and gay rights; campaign finance restrictions; and expansion of public provision of healthcare - although still to spell out exactly how that would happen. Against: U.S. presence in Afghanistan and Syria; liberalization of gambling Would make history as: First female president  Slogan: Warren Has A Plan For That  AND THE 21 WHO HAVE WITHDRAWN     MICHAEL BENNET, Colorado senator CORY BOOKER, New Jersey Senator  STEVE BULLOCK, Montana governor  JULIÁN CASTRO, former Housing Secretary KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, New York senator BILL DE BLASIO, New York City mayor  JOHN DELANEY, former Maryland Congressman MIKE GRAVEL, Former Alaska governor  KAMALA HARRIS,California senator   JOHN HICKENLOOPER, Former Colorado governor JAY INSLEE, Washington governor  WAYNE MESSAM, mayor of Miramar, Florida  SETH MOULTON, Massachusetts congressman RICHARD OJEDA, former West Virginia state senator BETO O'ROURKE, former Texas congressman DEVAL PATRICK, former Massachusetts governor  TIM RYAN, Ohio congressman JOE SESTAK, former Pennsylvania congressman  ERIC SWALWELL, California congressman MARIANNE WILLIAMSON, author ANDREW YANG, entrepreneur     
