politics
{ By Valerie Edwards For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:00, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8023581/Mike-Bloomberg-declared-loser-Democratic-debate.html }
Mike Bloomberg has been declared the loser of Democratic debate after Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders relentlessly attacked the former New York mayor over his past 'racist' policies and treatment of women.  Six candidates took the stage Wednesday night in Las Vegas to face-off for a 5-to-1 face-off that ended disastrously for Bloomberg.  Pundits chose Bloomberg as the loser after he became the object of scorn, ridicule and contempt within the first five minutes of the debate.  MIKE BLOOMBERG: THE $60BILLION PUNCHING BAG  (LOSER) What is becoming an increasingly bitter nomination fight, the Democratic presidential candidates focused their attacks on Bloomberg on the debate stage.   He has spent more than $400million so far on advertising that in turn has given him strong standing in state and national polls. Sanders recalled Bloomberg's support of stop-and-frisk policing targeting minorities while Warren spoke about how Bloomberg had mocked women. 'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians,' Warren said.  'And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg.'  Amy Klobuchar also quipped that, 'I don't think you look at Donald Trump and say I think we need someone richer in the White House'.  Former Vice President Joe Biden said Bloomberg condoned racist police practices, and Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, said Bloomberg was trying to 'buy out' the Democratic Party. But his biggest struggle came when Warren hammered him over allegations of sexism and mistreatment of women in his company. Bloomberg attempted to defend his record and deflect the attacks on him by turning them into attacks on President Donald Trump.  And he effectively raised questions about whether Americans would embrace a socialist like Sanders. But the glare was harsh, and the attacks landed with force. Even if you are worth $60billion it is hard to win a 5-on-1 fight. CNN's Chris Cillizza said the 'first hour of the debate was an absolute and total disaster for the former mayor'.  'He looked lost at times - and those were the best times for him! Warren dunked on him repeatedly. Sanders slammed him. Biden bashed him,' Cillizza wrote.   Cillizza compared Bloomberg's performance to that of a pro-wrestling match where 'everyone decided to gang up on a single wrestler in the ring - and that wrestler was totally and completely caught off-guard'.  ELIZABETH WARREN: RETURN OF THE FIGHTER (WINNER) Warren rose to prominence in the Democratic field with a fighting spirit that defined the early months of her campaign. But her disappointing showings in Iowa and New Hampshire left her campaign struggling. But on Wednesday, Warren got back in the fight.  She slammed Bloomberg - which was no surprise as she's been an antagonist of billionaires playing in politics for years.  But Warren also attacked Klobuchar, saying her health care plan was just a 'Post-it note'.  She accused Buttigieg of being in debt to his rich campaign supporters and having a healthcare plan that was just a 'PowerPoint' designed by his consultants. Warren slammed also fellow liberal Sanders, accusing him of letting his supporters trash anyone with a plan. But it was her prosecutorial approach to Bloomberg over his company's treatment of women that stood out. She hit the former mayor hard when it came to his refusal to release women from the nondisclosure agreements with his company regarding complaints of a hostile working environment. Warren was relentless, leaving the former mayor stumbling and fumbling for a response. It began when Bloomberg was asked about the complaints women have made against his company. He offered a careful response that was filled with many statistics and little explanation. 'Anybody that does anything wrong in our company, we investigate it and if it's appropriate, they're gone that day,' Bloomberg said. 'Let me tell you what I do at my company and my foundation and in city government when I was there. In my foundation, the person that runs it is a woman, 70 per cent of the people there are women,' he added.  'In my company, lots and lots of women have big responsibilities. They get paid exactly the same as men. In city hall, the top person, my deputy mayor was a woman and 40 per cent of our commissioners were women,' he said. Warren then hit him harder. 'I hope you heard what his defense was. I've been nice to some women. That just doesn't cut it. The mayor has to stand on his record. What we need to know is exactly what's lurking out there,' she said.  'He has gotten some number of women, dozens, who knows, who sign nondisclosure agreements both for sexual harassment and for gender discrimination in the workplace.  Van Jones tweeted about Warren shortly after the debate, saying: 'Elizabeth Warren needs Bloomberg like a "lion needs an antelope." He is the human embodiment of everything she's against. If @ewarren is effective at landing those blows, the air could very well come out of the Bloomberg bubble.'   BERNIE SANDERS: LEADING THE PACK (WINNER) Sanders has continuously tried to cement himself as the Democratic frontrunner, and he may have just pulled that off, according to some pundits.  'The ganging-up on Bloomberg was just fine for Sanders, who, in case you forgot, is the clear front-runner for the Democratic nomination,' Cillizza wrote.   Before Wednesday night, Sanders has been hammering Bloomberg for weeks for trying to buy the election, though at a CNN town hall Tuesday night he wouldn't guarantee he wouldn't take Bloomberg's money, which the billionaire candidate promised to the Democratic nominee, should he not be chosen for the job himself. 'I don't think we're going to need that money,' Sanders eventually said.  Sanders has sprung to the lead for the nomination in the RealClearPolitics polling average on the race with Biden in second and Bloomberg in third. Sanders and Bloomberg locked horns on political philosophy during the debate, arguing over who's a communist and who's a socialist. Bloomberg was defending his net worth, pointing out he earned it through 'hard work' and that he was giving his money away when Sanders argued the workers helped make that money. 'Mr Bloomberg, it wasn't you who made all that money. Maybe your workers played some role in that as well,' Sanders said.  'And it is important those workers are able to share the benefits also. When we have so many people who go to work every day and they feel not good about their jobs.  'They feel like cogs in a machine. I want workers to be able to sit on corporate boards as well so they can have some say over what happens to their lives.'  MAYOR PETE BUTTIGIEG: THE GIFTED DEBATER (WINNER) Some pundits crowned Buttigieg as one of Wednesday night's winners.  'Buttigieg is, without question, the most naturally gifted debater in the Democratic field, meaning he is simply not going to turn in a clunker. He was steady if not spectacular in this debate,' Cillizza said.  According Cillizza, Buttigieg spent parts of the night taking on Sanders, which is a  'clear effort to send a signal to voters that he is the most credible alternative to the Vermont senator'. Buttigieg, who finished in the top two in Iowa and New Hampshire with Sanders, reserved some of his harshest criticism for Sanders. He warned that Democrats could wake up after more than a dozen states vote on Super Tuesday on March 3 and have only Bloomberg and Sanders left on the ballot.  Buttigieg then quipped that the party may want to nominate 'someone who is actually a Democrat'. The crowd inside the Las Vegas casino hadn't yet finished chuckling and hooting when he continued by saying Sanders 'wants to burn this party down' and Bloomberg 'wants to buy this party out'. Sanders, a senator from Vermont and avowed democratic socialist, responded by saying that Buttigieg's campaign has been too reliant on 'billionaire' big donors, kicking off another intense exchange. Their back and forth continued through criticism of Sanders supporters who have frequently been accused of bullying behavior online.  Sanders said he personally had denounced such behavior. This prompted Buttigieg to say he believed the senator but, 'What it is it about your campaign in particular that seems to be motivating this type of behavior?' On this night, Buttigieg had the most at stake, with Sanders standing in Nevada polls well ahead of the man who has run even with him in the first two contests. AMY KLOBUCHAR: WHERE'S THE  KLOBENTUM? (LOSER) The last debate was rocket fuel for Klobuchar. Her strong performance vaulted her to a third-place finish in New Hampshire and onto Nevada.  But it may be hard for lightning to strike twice. The Minnesota senator was often drowned out in the high-octane bickering Wednesday, or pulled down into the mud.  At one point she pulled from her supply of ready quips, saying of Sanders and Bloomberg as they argued over capitalism that there is 'a boxing rematch in Vegas on Saturday and these guys should go down there'. The most damaging exchange was between Klobuchar and Buttigieg, who have tangled before.  When asked about her embarrassing gaffe in forgetting the name of Mexico's president, she had to fend off Buttigieg, who claimed it disproved her argument that her work in Washington has prepared her to be president.  She also alternately scrapped with and aligned with Warren. 'Are you calling me dumb?' Klobuchar asked Buttigieg incredulously. Later, she added: 'I wish everyone was as perfect as you, Pete.' A little over a week ago in New Hampshire, Klobuchar clearly stood out. This time was much harder as everyone battled for survival. FORMER VP JOE BIDEN: THE BYSTANDER (LOSER) Another candidate in need of a big night to reverse perceptions that his campaign was struggling was Biden. For a good portion of the debate, he receded. He joined in the attacks on Bloomberg, but largely avoided some of the more testy exchanges. Biden called the stop and frisks 'abhorrent' and the former mayor admitted that it 'got out of control'. 'When we discovered – I discovered – that we were doing many, many – too many – stop and frisks, we cut 95 per cent of it out,' Bloomberg asserted. The former mayor said he is and was trying to 'learn' how to change policies to help continuing reduce crime in New York City. Biden hit back at Bloomberg, claiming he couldn't apologize it away and said it violated every right people posses. 'Let's get something straight. The reason that stop and frisk changed is because Barack Obama sent moderators to see what was going on. When we sent them there to say "this practice has to stop," the mayor thought it was a terrible idea we send them there – a terrible idea,' Biden said, invoking the name of one of the most famous Democrats. 'It's not whether he apologized or not, it's the policy. The policy was abhorrent, and it was, in fact, a violation of every right people have,' he said, claiming Bloomberg pushed back against stopping the policies. 'He figured out it was a bad idea after we sent in monitors and said it must stop. Even then he continued the policy,' Biden said on stage. When Warren said that Biden was 'in the pocket' of Republican Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, Biden fought back.  He also tried to return to his 'Middle Class Joe' biography about his family's financial struggles. Biden did not offer voters any new rationale for voting for him. 
