politics
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  02:17, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8022863/Whoopi-Goldberg-tells-AOC-lost-support-bashed-older-generation-Dems.html }
Whoopi Goldberg told Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez that the state politician 'lost' her support after making comments that appeared to go against older generation Democrats.  The 64-year-old actress shared her opinion of AOC during a Wednesday interview on 'The View.'  'I was very happy when you were elected because I thought it was a great step and a good direction,' Goldberg explained to Ocasio-Cortez. 'And then you lost me because it felt like you were saying to people like me that I was too old and didn't do enough.' Scroll down for video  Goldberg was referencing the July 2019 spat between that AOC and new-age Democrats had with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the 'establishment.'   And while AOC immediately tried to distance herself from the sentiment, 'The Color Purple' actress continued with her statement. 'I feel like, 'I love young people,' I was once one,' Goldberg added. 'You're on my shoulders and we have carried this fight.'  Goldberg then goes on to salute the work of Speaker Nancy Pelosi and California Senator Dianne Feinstein who she both notes had to exist in spaces predominantly held by men. She continued: 'It sounded like you were dismissing us and it bothered the hell out of me.'  Ocasio-Cortez responded to Goldberg by declaring that there is 'incentive' to blow up disagreements that happen within the party.  The state rep also declared that young people make it a point to honor those who come before them at rallies that are held, before singing praise for the House Speaker. 'Nancy Pelosi–that's mama bear of the Democratic Party,' Ocasio-Cortez asserted as she continued honoring other women and people of color who have been trailblazers in politics.  AOC then honored Rep. Elijah Cummings, who she worked under while on the House Oversight and Reform Committee. 'He did so much to center us (young people) and uplift us and that is so unusual in a place that revolves around seniority,' she said.  'I think it's important to say that with youth and culture... it's always been seen and cast as rebellious but ultimately we are not a movement that is disconnected from our past. We are part of a long movement of ancestors and elders that we should always acknowledge.'  
