{ By Daniel Martin Policy Editor For The Daily Mail and Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  02:05, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8022887/Home-Secretary-Priti-Patel-accused-bullying-creating-atmosphere-fear.html }
Priti Patel tried to force out her most senior civil servant after a row over her behaviour, it was claimed last night. Staff have allegedly accused the Home Secretary of bullying and belittling officials in meetings at the Home Office. They also complained she has made unreasonable demands and created an 'atmosphere of fear'. Sir Philip Rutnam, the permanent secretary, is said to have raised concerns about her treatment of staff with the Cabinet Office. But allies of the Home Secretary have dismissed the claims, with Business minister Nadhim Zahawi today insisting Ms Patel is 'utterly professional' and 'works day and night'.   Mr Zahawi told LBC: 'I've known Priti for 25 years, she's utterly professional, works night and day to deliver for the country and her constituents and is absolutely focused on making sure... the people voted for us to take back control of our borders.' Pushed on whether he believed Ms Patel is a bully, Mr Zahawi said: 'No, I don't think she is at all. 'I've worked with Priti in the past on several campaigns, I've known her literally for 25 years, she is a brilliant, collegiate team player.'  Sir Mark Sedwill, the Cabinet Secretary, was also dragged into the row as Ms Patel demanded the removal of Sir Philip, according to the Times. A senior Whitehall source told the newspaper that the situation at the Home Office had become 'completely unsustainable and was going to blow up'.  Last week a senior official in the department collapsed after a tense meeting with the Home Secretary over the deportation of foreign criminals to Jamaica. Priti Patel was brought back in to the heart of Government by Boris Johnson last July, less than two years after quitting the Cabinet in disgrace. The daughter of Gujarati Ugandan Asians, she picked up her Tory values and work ethic from her parents. The right-winger and vocal Brexiteer's maternal family was originally from Gujarat in India, before moving to Uganda in the early 20th century and prospered in business. They moved to the UK in the 1960s, before the East African nation's 80,000 Asian community was were expelled by the murderous dictator Idi Amin in 1972.  Her parents, Sushil and Anjana, initially lodged in one small room in North London while he completed his studies in engineering. Eventually, they were able to buy a small house in Harrow and used that to secure a bank loan for their first shop, a newsagent in Tottenham. Priti and her younger sister and brother were frequently called upon to work alongside their parents in the several shops and sub-post offices they ran in Nottingham, Ipswich and Norwich. When Priti became secondary school age, the family bought an upmarket chocolate shop in Hertfordshire where there were good state schools, including Watford Grammar where she was head girl. She later got a degree in economics, sociology and social anthropology at Keele University and a post-graduate diploma in government and politics at Essex.  A team had been working overnight to try to reverse a High Court ruling barring the deportation of 25 foreign criminals. The official fell ill during one of the meetings and had to be taken to hospital where it was found that he had a sodium deficiency.  Ms Patel had apparently challenged staff on why they had failed to reverse the ruling. A Home Office spokesman said there had been no 'formal' complaints made against Ms Patel.  The spokesman said: 'We have not received any formal complaints and we take the welfare of our staff extremely seriously.' Her allies rejected complaints of bullying and said she had never been unreasonable. They said: 'The Home Office is dysfunctional and the current permanent secretary had presided over a sacking of a home secretary and accidental deportations. 'If this were any other environment Philip Rutnam would not only be sacked he'd be denied a pension.' They reportedly also said Sir Philip was to blame for Amber Rudd's forced resignation over the Windrush scandal in 2018. Sir Philip is also reportedly writing to all senior members of the civil service in the department to highlight the dangers of work place stress.  It is also claimed he told team members that they should not be expected to do 'unrealistic' work outside of contracted working hours. A Home Office source defended Sir Philip in comments reported by The Times.  The source told the newspaper: 'Sir Philip and [Ms Patel] have fundamental disagreements about the rule of law. He's committed and she isn't. 'She's belittled him and caused consternation, and she frequently encourages behaviour outside the rule of law.' Priti Patel replaced Sajid Javid as Home Secretary in July 2019, becoming the first ethnic minority woman to hold the office. The claims regarding Miss Patel's conduct came as she admitted her own Uganda Asian parents would have been stopped from settling in the UK under the Government's new hardline Australian-style points-based immigration policy.  Yesterday morning she published plans for an 'Australian-style' points-based immigration system as she said net migration will fall when it is introduced next year.  But the 47-year-old, who was born in London to Ugandan Asian parents of Gujarati descent, admitted they would not have made the cut were the system in place in the 1960s, in a frank radio interview.  LBC presenter Nick Ferrari, who is of Italian heritage, said to her: 'The side of my family on my father's side were in catering, so I don't know if I would actually be in this country under these rules. Would you, with your parents?' She replied: 'This isn't about my background or my parents.' He pressed her again, highlighting her family background - her parents came to the UK in the 60s and set up a newsagent chain - saying: 'But you wouldn't be here, Home Secretary.' At that point, she said: 'Yeah, but also let's not forget we are not changing our approach to refugees and asylum seekers, which is very different to a points-based system for employment and that particular route.' Ms Patel has previously said her parents 'were kicked out of Uganda' and 'came to the UK with nothing, worked hard and set up a successful shop business'. After the new points system was introduced, farm workers warned Miss Patel that the UK could have a shortage of workers. Leaders in agriculture, hospitality and the care system were among those who lashed out at the Home Secretary after she dismissed fears over staff shortages caused by the proposed points-based system.  National farmers' Union president Minette Batters warned that tens of thousands of seasonal migrant workers will still be required to come to the UK to harvest fruit and vegetable crops in 2021, the year in which it comes into force.  The number of temporary workers farms can recruit from outside the EU under the seasonal workers scheme has been increased to 10,000 for the coming season, up from 2,500, which the National Farmers' Union (NFU) said would ease some of the pressure this year. But the NFU urged the Government to commit to a full scheme for 2021, so growers can recruit the 70,000 seasonal workers needed on British fruit, vegetable and flower farms. 
