{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  04:24, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8040729/Reactions-WA-treasurers-resignation.html }
BEN WYATT'S CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: * Before politics: Counsel at the WA Director of Public Prosecutions from December 2004 to January 2006, then a barrister and solicitor in private practice * 2006: Won the Victoria Park by-election, triggered by the resignation of former Premier Geoff Gallop * 2017: Became the first indigenous treasurer at a state or federal level in Australia * 2019: Forecast five years of budget surpluses in WA after five years in the red REACTIONS TO MR WYATT'S RESIGNATION: * Federal minister for indigenous Australians and relative Ken Wyatt: "While we belong to different political parties, we share an unwavering commitment to the people of WA and indigenous Australians across our nation." * Federal finance minister and WA Senator Mathias Cormann: "It's been a privilege to work with him to resolve a number of key federal-state issues of importance to our state." * Former WA Liberal treasurer and leader Mike Nahan: "Although we are fierce opponents in the chamber, your departure will be a great loss for the Labor party and parliament." * WA Liberal leader Liza Harvey: "On behalf of the Liberal opposition, I would like to thank Ben Wyatt for his significant contribution to public life in WA." * Former federal Labor MP Tim Hammond: "First and foremost a dear and lifelong mate, Ben Wyatt leads from the front, both in politics, and even more so in his commitment to his nearest and dearest. I'm incredibly proud of him and confidently predict he will not regret this decision one bit. Well done, brother." * CCI WA chief executive Chris Rodwell: "Western Australia will lose a disciplined hand at the economic tiller. Mr Wyatt has clear foresight about the economic challenges for our state and a strong vision for growing our economy ... he played a defining role in achieving reform of the GST." 
