politics
{ By Samantha Brick for Daily Mail   Published:  22:05, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8022229/Wholl-love-blind-date-week-Zoe-28-Paul-38.html }
Zoe, 28  Dating Past I’ve only been in one serious relationship. We met when I was 18 and it lasted for around three years. We’ve seen each other on and off since, but I cut off all communication just over a year ago. Pre-Date Nerves? While I don’t normally get nervous, I knew I would be a little apprehensive beforehand. First Impressions? I’m afraid they weren’t at all positive because Paul arrived 15 minutes late. I had arrived 20 minutes early for our 6pm table at The Boulevard in London’s Soho, which was a lovely venue. But he sauntered in at 6.15pm and didn’t even say sorry. It definitely impacted my opinion of him. Paul is tall and was dressed smartly, but perhaps had one button too many undone on his shirt. I found that off-putting. I usually go for older guys, but Paul is the oldest man I’ve ever been on a date with. Single for around a year, no children  Current role Digital marketing manager Would like to meet  Someone funny who doesn’t take themselves too seriously. Cringy chatup lines don’t do it for me. I tend to go for the wrong men, so my friend told me to try a blind date. Easy To Talk To? Paul was able to make me laugh not long after he arrived. I ordered mushroom arancini, then a vegan cauliflower main with lentils and a side order of fries. Paul had a cheese souffle followed by a salmon dish. I couldn’t finish my starter so Paul helped himself. We were together for three hours and had quite a lot of wine! Embarrassing Moments? At 6.10pm, when he still hadn’t arrived, I looked into my wine glass and decided I’d have dinner on my own if needs be. Did Sparks Fly? No. From chatting with Paul it’s clear he dates a lot, and I don’t like that in a guy. Serial daters put me off. He’s very smooth. Did You Kiss? Just on the cheek at the start of the date, and again at the end of the evening. After we’d finished eating, we ordered another glass of wine. Paul then stood up and sat next to me. My reaction was: ‘Whoa, that’s too much!’ He said he wanted to see the view of the restaurant rather than stare at the pink wall behind my head. What do you think he thought of you? Liked? The restaurant was lovely. Regrets? Sharing my starter with Paul. Coffee or Cab? Cab. He was very complimentary and admired my smile. He also told me I had the perfect nose, which is a bit of a weird thing to say but I rolled with it. Would your family like him? They’d be surprised if I brought him home as a boyfriend. He’s perfectly nice, but not for me.   Paul, 38  Dating Past I was in a long-term relationship with the mother of my daughter. That ended six years ago, it’s too complicated to mention why it broke down. Since then I’ve had a couple of relationships, including one that lasted two years. I’ve dated many women but I can’t seem to find the right girl. Pre-Date Nerves? I don’t get nervous. First Impressions? The beginning of the date didn’t go well. I had it in my head that we were meeting at 6.30pm and arrived at the restaurant at 6.15 as I like to be early. But, as a result of my mistake, I was 15 minutes late. I could sense Zoe’s annoyance before we’d even said hello to one another.     Single for three years, with one daughter, aged 11  Current role Software developer Would like to meet    A pretty but feisty woman in her mid-20s to early 30s. women over 35 start to look mumsy, after partying and sunbathing in their 20s. this starts to show in their complexion. There wasn’t that warm open smile you share on a first date. When a girl is late for a date, I’m never annoyed, it just happens in London. Physically I wasn’t bowled over either. She was wearing a black pullover with a gaping hole in the leg of her jeans. It was as though she’d accidently put her foot through them several times. She showed me the picture she’d sent in for the date and it was clear she can look hot but hadn’t made the effort. Easy To Talk To? As we got talking things got better between us. She liked my teeth, although she lost me when she started talking about hip-hop music. I prefer to play the piano in my spare time.  We discovered both our mothers are opera singers, which I found fascinating but she didn’t. She’s a tough nut to crack. I tried to talk about funny dates and situations I’d been in, including one where after exchanging numbers the woman got up and wasn’t even 5ft (I’m 6ft) but she’d just roll her eyes. Did she find it offensive or size-ist? I do wonder. I was careful not to be too controversial after that and didn’t feel she would appreciate my one-eyed girl story. I think she sees herself as a social justice warrior. Embarrassing Moments? There were too many! At the end of the date she said she was ‘into’ politics and immediately cast me as a Conservative Brexiteer. I shot back: ‘You’ll be a Labour Remainer.’ Actually, I’m on the fence and can see both sides. I got up to sit next to her for our final glass of wine and she was very shocked. I think she suspected I was going to kiss her, when I just wanted to see the rest of the room. Did Sparks Fly? No, Zoe is very easily offended. I’m not offensive but I can be controversial. I think she might be ‘woke’ and is very quick to judge. She told me she had dated a guy from Love Island and I’m sure if I’d have said I dated a girl from Love Island, she’d have rolled her eyes at me. Did You Kiss? Liked? Going to a restaurant I’ve never been to before. Regrets? None. Coffee or Cab? Coffee. No. Even though we were together for over three hours her barriers remained up. Zoe’s attractive and I wouldn’t mind have minded a kiss. But I’m not sure if that was because of all the wine we’d had! What do you think she thought of you? That I’m a Conservative Brexiteer! At the end of the date she thanked me for being nice and not weird. Would your family like her? Anyone would like Zoe.   
