{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  20:39, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8021985/No-local-basin-bias-new-water-minister.html }
The new federal water minister has brushed off suggestions that living outside the Murray-Darling Basin will make him less in touch with the river system's controversial plan. Bundaberg-based Nationals MP Keith Pitt has replaced fellow Queenslander David Littleproud in the tricky portfolio as tensions run high across the basin. Mr Pitt said he would listen to communities and take expert advice on water issues. "I think they should have confidence that I come from an electorate outside of the basin," he told the ABC. "My decisions will not be affected by pressure from my own constituents as a member of the House of Representatives." Mr Littleproud, who lives in the northern basin, said his successor being located outside the river system could be an advantage. "One of the things when you live in the basin, you become very parochial," he told AAP. "What I tried to do was bring a degree of fairness - leadership rather than politics. "The way I wanted to start my reign as water minister was take the politics out of it." Mr Pitt isn't under any illusions about the complexity of the portfolio. "I can't garner 50 years' experience in a week - that's just not possible - so it's about taking the right advice and making the right decisions," he said. While Prime Minister Scott Morrison has often prayed for drought-breaking rain, Mr Pitt is a little more circumspect. "If wishing for things made them happen, I'd be thinner and better-looking," he said. Mr Pitt also has responsibility for mining in his role as resources minister. Farmers have clashed with the mining industry in recent years over access to prime agricultural land with coal and gas reserves across NSW and Queensland. But Mr Littleproud believes being in charge of water and resources won't be a dilemma for the new minister. "That is where there can be greater cooperation and collaboration in making sure the science of how water use of different industries interacts," he said. "It's important that's able to be enunciated clearly and transparently. I don't think there's any conflict." 
