{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:35, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020963/Andrew-Yang-joins-CNN-commentator.html }
Now former presidential candidate Andrew Yang has a new gig - CNN announced Wednesday that they've picked him to be a political commentator for the network.  The news comes one week and one day after Yang dropped out of the presidential race, deciding to scrap his plans to compete in Nevada and South Carolina after failing to get out of the single-digits in last Tuesday's New Hampshire primary.  'We are just getting started,' he told supporters, dubbed the #YangGang, on Granite State primary night. 'This movement is the future of American politics. This movement is the future of the Democratic Party.'  Yang based his campaign around the concept of providing Americans with a universal basic income.  He named his version the 'freedom dividend' and his plan would give Americans over the age of 18 $1,000 a month.  They could spend the money however they want.  But the aim was to pull low-income Americans out of poverty and help other Americans improve their station.  Yang also talked on the campaign trail about putting 'humanity first,' meaning that as president he'd view every decision through that prism. And his motto - like President Trump's 'Make America Great Again,' was 'Make America Think Harder,' or MATH for short.  Yang also used creative tactics to get the word out.    For example, in Los Angeles in the run-up to the December debate Yang's campaign rented out a storefront down the street from Supreme - a company known for viral merchandise drops - and sold limited edition hoodies and shirts that were a collaboration between Yang and musician-actor Childish Gambino-Donald Glover.  The Los Angeles pop-up store created buzz, with members of the #YangGang lined up for blocks.  In Iowa, Yang had comedian Dave Chappelle, a supporter, bring him out onstage at the end of his comedy show on the campus of Iowa State University.   'I called a friend of mine after the first debate ... I didn't see the debate. I said, "who'd you like?" He said, "I liked the Chinese guy." I thought he was joking,' Chappelle told DailyMail.com when asked how he became a Yang fan. 'And he told me about Andrew Yang,' Chappelle recalled.  Yang broke barriers in that way too, as the first formidable Asian-American presidential candidate.  He also outlasted other candidates of color.  He was the only non-white candidate to appear on the debate stage in New Hampshire earlier this month.   The announcement that Yang is poised to be a CNN talking head comes just hours before the Democrats take the debate stage again - this time at the Paris Theater in Las Vegas, Nevada.  While Yang is no longer in the race, his supporters are still a presence in Las Vegas.  Several were manning a table outside the early voting location Tuesday at the University of Nevada Las Vegas. They were encouraging students who supported Yang to still vote for him so that he might have some delegates at this summer's Democratic National Convention.  Other Yang supporters showed up Tuesday night outside an event for Vice President Joe Biden as he was talking to members of the Asian-American community at a Chinese restaurant in Las Vegas' Chinatown neighborhood.  One of Yang's supporters had brought a ukelele and she played it through a shouting match between immigrant rights protesters who had showed up to confront Biden over deportations, and Biden supporters, who were standing in line to take pictures with the ex-veep.    
