{ By Emily Crane and Daniel Bates In Manhattan Court For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:30, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020683/Harvey-Weinstein-jury-returns-second-day-deliberations.html }
The Harvey Weinstein trial has requested another batch of evidence - this time related to rape accuser Annabella Sciorra - as the second day of deliberations at his New York trial came to an end. The jurors requested on Wednesday afternoon for the court to re-read testimony from actress Rosie Perez who testified in support of her friend Annabella Sciorra. Perez told the court that the Sopranos actress had confided in her that she had been allegedly raped by Weinstein in the mid-1990s. Sciorra told her friend that Weinstein was harassing her and she was scared in the months after the alleged attack, Perez told jurors. The jury also asked to see all written or digital communications mentioning Sciorra in relation to the investigators Weinstein paid to keep tabs on his accusers. The trial heard that Weinstein offered Black Cube, an investigative spy agency, $300,000 if they kept stories about him out of the press in 2017. Weinstein also spoke to a private investigator about his 'red flag list' of people who might be talking to the press, which included Sciorra. Weinstein has pleaded not guilty to sexually assaulting Mimi Haleyi and also raping aspiring actress Jessica Mann in 2013. He is also charged with predatory sexual assault for both women. Sciorra's rape allegation is intertwined with the predatory sexual assault charges Weinstein is facing in relation to Haleyi and Mann.  While Sciorra's accusation is too old to be the basis for criminal charges on its own due to the statute of limitations at the time, the law allows prosecutors to use her allegations as a basis for charges alleging Weinstein is a sexual predator.  If the jury decides Weinstein didn't rape Sciorra, then it can't find Weinstein guilty of either predatory sexual assault count.   The jury's note on Wednesday also requested all communication between Weinstein and his friend Paul Feldsher - who was called as a defense witness. Feldsher's defense testimony backfired after the prosecutors dug up damaging texts he sent to Weinstein in 2018 in which he called his accusers a 'dogpile of actresses'. On Wednesday morning, the jury had requested a court reporter to read back Mimi Haleyi's testimony of the night Weinstein allegedly forcibly performed oral sex on her when she had her period in his apartment in 2006. Jurors scribbled in their notepads when details of Haleyi saying 'no, no, no' during the alleged assault was read out. They listened carefully as they heard her say how Weinstein 'came towards me and lunged at me, trying to kiss me'.  Some male jurors looked uncomfortable as Haleyi's testimony about Weinstein ripping out her tampon and forcing himself upon her was read out.  Weinstein repeatedly shook his head dismissively as the testimony was read.  In addition to hearing the testimony, the jury of seven men and five women had also requested to see the email exchanges between Haleyi and Weinstein that were used as evidence in the trial.  They also asked the judge to clarify the charges Weinstein faces in regarding to Haleyi's allegations. Judge James Burke had earlier said the emails would be provided to the jury on a safe laptop in the deliberation room. He said he couldn't given them a transcript of her testimony, which is why it was read out by a court reporter instead.   Haleyi alleges Weinstein sexually assaulted her after he got her a job working on Project Runway. She testified that she and Weinstein had sex at a hotel two weeks later even though she didn't want to be intimate. Weinstein's lawyers have argued that is evidence he didn't coerce her during the first encounter either.  During their deliberations on Tuesday, the jury asked to see a blueprint of Weinstein's apartment where he is accused of assaulting Haleyi. The jury sought clarification for the legal definition of terms like consent and forcible compulsion.  They also requested to see an email Weinstein sent to his private investigator listing certain accusers he feared would come forward as 'red flags'.  Jurors will spend six hours a day for as long as it takes to reach a verdict on the five sex crimes charges against Weinstein.      What is Weinstein accused of: Harvey Weinstein is accused of raping aspiring actress Jessica Mann in a Manhattan hotel room in 2013 and forcibly performing oral sex on film production assistant Mimi Haleyi in his apartment in 2006. What are the FIVE charges he faces:  Jessica Mann: First degree rape and third degree rape  The first degree charge alleges Weinstein used physical force or an implied or expressed threat that led the alleged victim to fear immediate death or injury. The third degree charge alleges only that there was a lack of consent. Mimi Haleyi: Criminal sexual act for her forced oral sex allegation. Two counts of predatory sexual assault, one for each of the charged acts. How the predatory sexual assault charges works: Under New York law, one way a person can be found guilty of predatory sexual assault is if he or she committed certain sex offenses in the past, even if that conduct didn't result in criminal charges. In Weinstein's case, prosecutors allege that he raped Sopranos actress Annabella Sciorra in late 1993 or early 1994 - an accusation that is too old to be the basis for criminal charges on its own because of the statute of limitations. Does the jury have to convict on all five charges? No. The form instructs the jury to start by reaching a verdict on the predatory sexual assault counts, which encompass the other charged acts. Depending on what they decide on those counts, they can move onto or skip other charges. For example, if jurors find Weinstein guilty of the predatory sexual assault count alleging he both raped Sciorra and assaulted Haleyi, then the jury does not need to decide the criminal sex act charge involving Haleyi.  If the jury decides Weinstein didn't rape Sciorra, then it can't find Weinstein guilty of either predatory sexual assault count. In total, the ex-movie mogul is facing five charges: First degree and third degree rape for Mann and a criminal sexual act for Haleyi's forced oral sex allegation. He is also charged with predatory sexual assault for both women. The most serious charge, predatory sexual assault, requires jurors to decide two things: If he raped Sopranos actress Annabella Sciorra in the mid-1990s and if he committed one of the charged acts.  Sciorra testified at trial about Weinstein allegedly raping her in her Manhattan apartment.  Her testimony was a crucial for prosecutors to prove predatory sex assault and establish a pattern of serious sex crimes. Her accusation is too old to be the basis for criminal charges on its own.  With the way the verdict form is designed, jurors will likely be spending a lot of time weighing Sciorra's rape allegations, which could act as an aggravating factor to support a predatory sexual assault charge that carries a potential life sentence.  In her closing argument last week, Weinstein's lawyer Donna Rotunno implored jurors to see things the other way around. She suggested they focus first on Haleyi's allegation and Mann's rape allegation before thinking about Sciorra's allegation. 'You have heard from many witnesses in this case... But in the end, it only comes down to those two,' Rotunno said.  'You don't have to evaluate anything else. You don't get to Annabella Sciorra if you do not believe Miriam Haleyi, and if you do not believe Jessica Mann, you don't get to Annabella Sciorra.'  Earlier, Weinstein's lawyers had made a second attempt to have a juror who wrote a novel about predatory older men excluded from the jury. One of Weinstein's lawyers, Damon Cheronis, renewed a request he made Tuesday to boot a juror from the case because of her online review, posted during the trial, of Kate Elizabeth Russell's debut novel 'My Dark Vanessa'. The novel is about a relationship between a 15-year-old female student and a 42-year-old male teacher in 2000. In 2017, the former student is encouraged to come forward and tell her story, amid the #MeToo movement, in which women have accused powerful men in business, entertainment, news media and politics of sexual misconduct. The judge denied the request, saying: 'My finding is just that she hasn't done anything wrong.' The same juror wrote a novel about young women and 'predatory' older men. The defense had tried to exclude her from the jury before the trial began. Weinstein's lawyers also asked the judge for a gag order against Gloria Allred, the lawyer who represents three accusers who gave evidence in the trial. Cheronis said that Allred had been giving speeches outside the court every day including claiming that the defense were 'victim shaming'. The judge denied their motion and said: 'I wish I had that kind of authority'.  The judge had earlier gagged Weinstein's lawyers until the end of the trial after the lead defense attorney, Donna Rotunno, wrote an op-ed for Newsweek urging the jury to clear him.  'I want to caution you about the tentacles of your public relations juggernaut,' the judge told Rotunno before deliberations began on Tuesday.    Rotunno told Burke that the opinion piece, titled 'Jurors in my client Harvey Weinstein's case must look past the headlines', was not intended to address the jury directly. 'This is an op-ed about the jury system as a whole, about the criminal justice system as a whole,' she said.    In the op-ed, Rotunno said jurors were asked to avoid all media coverage and outside influences but questioned whether anyone thought it was 'realistically possible' in a 'high-profile case like Harvey Weinstein's'.  'I implore the members of this jury to do what they know is right and was expected of them from the moment they were called upon to serve their civic duty in a court of law,' she wrote.  'The facts are the facts. Harvey Weinstein is innocent. His fate hangs in the balance, and the world is watching.'    
