{ By Alex Raskin Sports News Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:31, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016909/Ex-Giants-slugger-Aubrey-Huff-disinvited-reunion-unacceptable-political-tweets.html }
The San Francisco Giants have disinvited retired slugger Aubrey Huff from an upcoming reunion over what team executives are calling his 'unacceptable' social media comments, prompting the conservative former first baseman to accuse the club of 'politically correct, progressive bulls***.'  In November, the 43-year-old Huff posted a picture of himself on Twitter holding a target riddled with bullet holes and a caption reading: 'Getting my boys trained up on how to use a gun in the unlikely event @BernieSanders beats @realDonaldTrump in 2020.' Then, in a January tweet that he has since deleted, Huff wrote about kidnapping Iranian women so 'we can bring them back here as they fan us and feed us grapes.' He has since claimed that tweet was a joke.  The Giants released a statement Monday after telling Huff that he would not be welcome when the franchise celebrates its 2010 World Series title with his former teammates later this season.   'Earlier this month, we reached out to Aubrey Huff to let him know that he will not be included in the upcoming 2010 World Series Championship reunion,' read a team statement.  'Aubrey has made multiple comments on social media that are unacceptable and run counter to the values of our organization. While we appreciate the many contributions that Aubrey made to the 2010 championship season, we stand by our decision.'  'Quite frankly, shocked,' Huff told The Athletic about the team's decision. 'Disappointed. If it wasn't for me, they wouldn't be having a reunion.' Huff had four RBIs as a first baseman and designated hitter for the Giants during their five-game World Series win over the Texas Rangers in 2010. He also had a key game-tying single against the Atlanta Braves in Game 4 of the National League Division Series.  'If they want to stick with their politically correct, progressive bulls***, that's fine,' he told The Athletic. Huff also released a statement on Twitter in which he suggested that the Giants franchise is suffering from some liberal bias. He insisted that his 'locker room humor' was integral to the team's success in 2010. 'When I asked why I wasn't invited (Giants CEO Larry Baer) told (me) that the board didn't approve of my Twitter posts, and my political support of Donald Trump,' Huff wrote. 'My locker room humor on Twitter is meant to be satirical, and sarcastic. And it was that type of humor that loosened up the clubhouse in 2010 for our charge at a World Series title. They loved it then, and it hasn't changed. That's not the issue. It's politics.' From there, Huff referenced Baer's suspension last year after he was filmed shoving his wife in public. 'I find this whole thing very hypocritical coming from a man who has had his share of real controversy for pushing his wife for which he had to take a break from the Giants and issue a formal apology,' he continued. 'All I did was tweet. ... 'I'm proud of what I accomplished in my 3 years with the Giants. I made lifelong memories with teammates that can never be taken away from me. And while I'm disappointed the Giants are so opposed to President Trump, and our constitutional rights that they'd uninvite me to my teams reunion, it shows me that now more than ever we have to stand up for our first 1st amendment rights. 'Otherwise, the America we know and love is already dead.' 'To the fans, you were always amazing to me. And just because I might not share some of your political views (which are stupid) I still respect your right to express them. #MAGA2020' Huff has inserted himself at the center of political discussions on Twitter following his infamous November tweet: 'Getting my boys trained up on how to use a gun in the unlikely event @BernieSanders beats @realDonaldTrump in 2020. In which case knowing how to effectively use a gun under socialism will be a must. By the way most the head shots were theirs.' Huff included a picture in his post, showing him holding up a target with clusters of bullet holes around the head and chest. When asked by one Twitter user whom Huff plans to shoot, the two-time World Series champion and former San Francisco Giants slugger issued a hit list: 'Ummmm crazy people rioting and trying to break into my house for food or shelter. And yes that includes Americans. And they aren't fellow Americans if they are breaking into my house and trying to harm my family dumba**.' The original post elicited thousands of responses on social media, including reactions from comedians and Trump critics Kathy Griffin and Tom Arnold. Griffin's response was succinct: 'This dumb f*** right here.' Huff reacted to Griffin immediately, referencing an infamous tour poster of hers that featured the comedian holding a replica of Trump's severed head. 'My boys and I were shooting a fake paper target, as I was teaching them safe gun practices,' Huff wrote. 'Yet here's a picture of you holding a fake head of @realDonaldTrump murdered by your hand with a knife. How'd that work out for your career? The hypocrisy is strong with this one. #moron.' Arnold, who once appeared on Trump's reality show, piled on after Griffin: 'Kathy Griffin just handed Aubrey Huff his ass.' In response, Huff took a swipe at Arnold by referencing his four divorces. 'She's not gonna bang u Tom,' Huff wrote. 'If I were you I'd focus on hanging on to that 4th wife before you lose the rest of your money on alimony payments. Let's chat over coffee about failed marriages. Alimony for my 1 divorce sucks. I can't imagine being dumb enough to do it 4 times. A veteran of 13 MLB seasons, Huff finished his career with 242 home runs and a respectable .278 average. He earned a Silver Slugger award in 2008 as the American League's best designated hitter after knocking 32 home runs and batting .304 on the season. He earned nearly $58 million over his career, which began in 1998 when he was drafted out of the University of Miami by the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in the fifth round of the amateur draft.  
