politics
{ By Ross Ibbetson For Mailonline   Published:  14:48, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016443/Author-claims-new-details-Bill-Clintons-secret-meeting-tarmac-Loretta-Lynch.html }
An author has claimed he's about to reveal fresh details about Bill Clinton's secret meeting on the tarmac with Attorney General Loretta Lynch in his new book.  Christopher Sign was a local ABC15 Arizona reporter when he broke the stunning story in June 2016, that former president Clinton had met with then Attorney General Loretta Lynch on her private jet at Phoenix Airport. It was alleged that their conversation centered around an ongoing investigation into whether Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server while Secretary of State was illegal. Bill Clinton and Lynch would go onto portray it as an impromptu friendly chat. Days later, the FBI chose not to bring criminal charges against Hillary, who was in the midst of her presidential campaign.  'We knew something had occurred that was a bit unusual. It was a planned meeting. It was not a coincidence.' Sign told Fox and Friends ahead of the release of his new work, 'The Secret on the Tarmac.'  Donald Trump had tweeted at the time: 'Does anybody really believe that Bill Clinton and the U.S.A.G. talked only about 'grandkids' and golf for 37 minutes in plane on tarmac?' Sign said his source witnessed the rendezvous unfold from the moment Clinton arrived at the airport. 'He then sat and waited in his car with the motorcade, her airstairs come down, most of her staff gets off, he then gets on as the Secret Service and FBI are figuring out "How in the world are we supposed to handle this? What are we supposed to do?"' Sign told Fox. 'She mentioned that Bill Clinton flattered her, talked about Eric Holder, talked about how things were going at Justice, talked about her job performance, not this golf-grandkids, Brexit.' Sign said his investigations into the tarmac meeting had led to numerous credible death threats.  'My family received significant death threats shortly after breaking this story,' he told Fox. 'Credit cards hacked. You know, my children, we have code words. We have secret code words that they know what to do.' He added that his work had nothing to do with right or left-wing politics, but about what is right and wrong.  In May last year, Sign told a Real Clear Investigations team: 'To this day I have never found a single person who claims or corroborates any story that Bill Clinton played golf on this particular trip ... I feel strongly the former president did not play golf on this visit.' Hillary's campaign was in full swing at this point and one might think Bill Clinton would be more involved in that than his golf swing on a 110-degree day in Phoenix.  Lynch was required to outline the meeting to then Justice Department Inspector Michael Horowitz and to lawmakers behind closed doors on Capitol Hill. Despite the meeting being an apparent pleasant coincidence, Lynch's testimony revealed their conversation was stilted and unusual. 'As we walked to the door, the head of my security detail came to me and said: "Ma'am, I've been informed … that former President Clinton is also at the airfield and would like to say hello."' Lynch testified. She said Clinton 'spoke with him for several minutes, asked about our trip, asked about our flight.' Lynch described how she recalled recent press about the Clintons' new grandchild and congratulated Bill.  She said the roughly twenty minute parley was 'the only real conversation I've ever had with him.'  Lynch said she made attempts to make a gracious exit more than once but that Clinton 'continued chatting. He continued talking.'  She added in her testimony: 'And at one point a staffer of mine came on the plane to get me. And at that point the president was - Mr. Clinton was then talking about Brexit. 'He was saying that either he had been reading an article about Brexit, and he made a reference - he quoted something that had been in The Times - The New York Times, I should say - about Brexit when my staffer was stepping on to the plane.' She was questioned about whether she felt that the conversation was going on too long and conceded, 'As we were leaving I felt that it was - it certainly was going to raise a potential issue in the appearance of how the case was being handled.' James Comey, then FBI director, later usurped the decision on whether to prosecute Clinton after the controversial runway meeting. 
