politics
{ By Lauren Fruen For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:16, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016247/Marine-recruit-accused-hitting-bootcamp-instructor-held-without-charge-trial-TWO-YEARS.html }
A Marine recruit accused of striking a drill instructor has been held without charge or trial for two years, according to his lawyer. Jay-Ar Ruiz was confined to a military prison after the alleged incident at a San Diego boot camp in late 2017, The San Diego Union-Tribune reports. He has since been moved to a federal prison hospital in Springfield, Missouri., his attorney Beth Payton-O'Brien told the paper.  She said Ruiz, 28, had a pre-existing mental illness when he arrived at the bootcamp in November 2017.  Ruiz is said to have violated a temporary restraining order filed against him in June 2017 by sending the woman concerned unsolicited letters.  When a Marine staff sergeant approached him on the matter Ruiz reportedly hit out before being rendered unconscious by a bear hug from his senior.   By January 2018 Ruiz was held at the Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. His lawyer says he should never have been recruited.  Payton-O'Brien, a former Navy captain and military judge, said: 'Within days (of arriving at boot camp) he starts exhibiting behaviors with this personality disorder. He gets dropped within 30 days. He should have never been recruited.' Shortly after his detainment Payton-O'Brien said it was established Ruiz could not defend himself but it took six months for Navy doctors to assess his mental health. The latest of two competency hearings in summer 2019 found he was not mentally competent and Ruiz was sent to hospital.  Payton-O'Brien added: 'I can't believe how long this case has been sitting around. 'It's shocking to me that if somebody is found to be not competent to assist in their defense, that it would take almost four months to get him transferred into a mental health facility. 'The government said they're going to drop the charges, (but) how can he be competent to defend himself in an [administrative separation board]?' Ruiz said in a letter in December last year: 'There's prison politics and anything that happens in a federal penitentiary is the same here.'  MCRD San Diego have not commented on the facts of the case. Members of the military can be held in custody before trial.  An unnamed source said Ruiz damaged facilities while being held in the brig.  He is accused of assault, disobeying orders, damaging government property, stalking, violating a restraining order and fraudulent enlistment, according to Payton-O'Brien.  There is still no date for resolution of the case.  DailyMail.com has contacted Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San Diego for comment.  
