{ By Valerie Edwards and Ariel Zilber For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:18, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8014155/The-Price-Right-host-Drew-Carey-breaks-silence-murdered-ex-fiance.html }
Drew Carey has broken his silence on the murder of his ex-fiancee, Dr Amie Harwick, whose ex-boyfriend allegedly threw her from the third floor balcony of her California home over the weekend.   Harwick, 38, was found unconscious on the ground at around 1.15am on Saturday after officers responded to a report of a 'woman screaming' in a Hollywood Hills neighborhood, the Los Angeles Police Department said in a statement.   She had been thrown from her third floor apartment's balcony, according to police.  In a statement that was emailed to US Weekly, Carey said he's 'overcome with grief'. 'Amie and I had a love that people are lucky to have once in a lifetime. She was a positive force in the world, a tireless and unapologetic champion for women, and passionate about her work as a therapist.' The Price Is Right host said: 'I would like to thank you in advance for giving myself and everyone who loved Amie privacy while we try to work through this tragic situation.'  His statement came after it was announced that the show has cancelled this week's tapings.   Scroll down for video  According to TMZ, the show had plans to film on Tuesday and Wednesday, but audience members received an email notifying them of the cancellations on Monday.  Carey and Harwick first made their relationship public in June 2017. They were engaged in January 2018. Harwick, the author of The New Sex Bible for Women, and Carey split in November 2018 after dating for more than a year. Authorities said they arrested Gareth Pursehouse, 41, at around 4.30pm on Saturday in Playa Del Rey on suspicion of murder. Harwick had previously told friends she feared he would hurt her. She had filed a restraining order against him but it had expired two weeks ago.   The doctor's roommate told police that after Pursehouse broke in, they ran out of the apartment to get help for her.  By the time officers arrived at the property, she had been thrown from the balcony.  Video courtesy of KTLA  Los Angeles Police did not immediately respond to a request for comment. According to his LinkedIn profile, Pursehouse has worked as a photographer as well as a software engineer and developer. His most recent job was as lead architect at Internet Brands. Hours after Harwick died and before his arrest, Pursehouse, who is active on Twitter, posted messages on the site. 'You can’t get fit without that new gym clothing,' he wrote at 9.07am on Saturday. 'But they won’t give you that gear until you’re fit. Soo … Tough t***ies bucko.'  Hours before the alleged murder, Pursehouse tweeted about politics. 'I can’t figure out why gerrymandering isn’t a federal crime,' he wrote. His Twitter page is full of tweets critical of President Donald Trump. 'Reminder... Once Trump is not president, the FBI can prosecute him for all the Mueller report findings…,' he wrote on Wednesday.  Harwick is a well known sex and family therapist in the Hollywood area. She received her degree in psychology from California Polytechnic University in Pomona, California.  Harwick also earned her masters of arts in clinical psychology from Pepperdine University.  In 2015, Harwick appeared in the popular online documentary titled Addicted to Sexting. A year later, she made an appearance on the reality television show Braxton Family Values. The show, which airs on WE tv, follows the lives of the Braxton sisters - Toni, Tamar, Traci, Towanda, and Trina - as well as their mother, Evelyn.  Harwick also published articles in various online news and advice sites. According to her web site, she worked out of an office on Santa Monica Boulevard. She offered weekly therapy sessions at $200 per session, according to her site.  
