politics
{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  14:03, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8012727/Labour-fake-news-row-Rebecca-Long-Baileys-leadership-team-accused-SEXISM-Nandy-claim.html }
The battle to become Labour leader was embroiled in a sexism row today after Rebecca Long-Bailey's team as accused of misrepresenting rival Lisa Nandy over a vote she missed while on maternity leave. An internal document used by the Corbynite candidate's team instructed volunteers to claim she was the only one of the three remaining candidates 'who opposed the 2015 welfare bill'. Supporters of the Wigan MP were quick to point out that she missed a minor vote as the legislation made its way through the Commons because she had recently given birth - before voting against it on her return.  It is believed to have been created by the grassroots Momentum group, which was last month accused of smearing Ms Nandy in an online video which made the same claim about the vote. The group, led by Corbyn ally Jon Lansman, is backing Ms Long-Bailey's campaign.  Nandy campaign chairwoman Louise Haigh said: 'It is really disappointing to see Momentum continue to attack a leadership candidate for having been on maternity leave.  'What message does this send to young women worried about balancing politics with having a family?' The document, uncovered by website Red Roar, sets out ways for campaign activists to boost Ms Long-Bailey's message to party members who will vote for the next leader. In a section headed 'Trust', it says: '(She is) the only candidate who provided consistent support to Jeremy Corbyn, nominating him in 2015 and 2016, serving in the Shadow Cabinet 2016-2019, and regularly defending his policies and vision on the national media.  'Backed by nearly all Socialist Campaign Group MPs, and two of the UKs biggest unions. The only leadership candidate who opposed the 2015 welfare bill.' A spokesman for the Long-Bailey campaign said it did not comment on leaks of internal documents.  Ms Nandy has repeatedly clashed with Ms Long-Bailey during the leadership campaign, disagreeing with her stance on mandatory re-selection of MPs and continuing Mr Corbyn's disastrous hard Left policies. At the end of January, Momentum pulled a video from social media after it was accused of making the same claim against the Wigan MP. She confronted the claim directly at the time, tweeting: 'Just seen a really disingenuous & ugly video accusing me of abstaining on Tory welfare cuts, which I opposed. 'I didn't abstain. I was on maternity leave. 'This sort of attack hurts all women in politics. Let's keep it sisterly.'  She is expected to finish third in the leadership vote when Mr Corbyn's successor is announced on April 4.   Yesterday Ms Long-Bailey said she would give Mr Corbyn a top job if she wins the leadership, because she 'loves' him.  She is trailing Sir Keir Starmer and has been labelled the 'Continuity Corbyn' candidate after she gave him ten out of ten for his leadership. It emerged at the weekend that she had told supporters in London that she would hand the failed leader a high-level brief if she was to succeed him. Asked if she would give him a job if she got into No 10, the Labour business spokeswoman said: 'I'd like to but I don't know whether he wants to do it... It's up to him. I love him so.' 
