politics
{ By Ariel Zilber For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  23:24, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8008327/Never-Trump-Republican-governor-Vermont-endorses-Bill-Weld-longshot-bid-unseat-president.html }
The Republican governor of Vermont has endorsed Bill Weld in his longshot primary challenge to President Trump ahead of the state’s GOP primary next month. Phil Scott, who like Weld is from the Libertarian wing of the Republican Party, told WPTZ-TV: ‘I’ve met him before, I think a lot of him and his platform so I would be supporting him.’ Weld responded to the endorsement by praising the Vermont governor. 'I’m a great admirer of @GovPhilScott of Vermont, and am delighted to have his endorsement in the Republican presidential primary on Super Tuesday,' Weld wrote on his Twitter account.  'VT has been well served in the past by Republican governors, and Gov. Scott admirably extends that tradition.' The endorsement by Scott is unlikely to have an impact on the Republican primaries given that Trump has near-total support among party officials and voters. Last week, Trump handily won the New Hampshire primary, defeating Weld, the former governor of Massachusetts, by 91 per cent to 8 per cent. Earlier this month, the president also cruised to victory in the Iowa caucuses. Barring any unforeseen events, Trump will officially be re-nominated by the GOP at the party convention in Charlotte this summer and stand for re-election in November. Weld was one of three ‘Never Trump’ Republicans to put their names on the ballot last year in hopes of mounting a miraculous challenge to the president. Mark Sanford, the former congressman from South Carolina, and Joe Walsh, a Tea Party Republican who was elected to Congress in 2011, announced their candidacies only to eventually withdraw. Scott’s support for Weld is a symbolic condemnation of Trump. Last week, the Vermont governor accused the president of abusing his power. He also said Trump should not be in office. Scott also blasted his fellow Republicans in the Senate, saying they should have allowed witnesses to testify at the impeachment trial and give evidence. After being asked about the president's acquittal in the Senate, Scott said the outcome was almost a foregone conclusion. ‘If they'd taken more testimony, maybe they'd have had more information and maybe other senators would have acted appropriately,’ Scott said. When pressed about whether he would have voted to remove the president, Scott noted he isn't a member of the Senate. ‘I believe that the president abused his powers. It’s hard, in some respects for me, because I’m not a supporter,’ Scott said. ‘I didn’t vote for the president, and I don’t believe that he should be in office.’ He continued, ‘I think it’s for the voters to decide in November whether he should continue in that role.’ Trump was acquitted by the Senate on the two articles of impeachment that were filed by the House after an investigation into Trump's request for Ukraine to ‘do us a favor’ in exchange for military aid and investigate Democratic rival Joe Biden ahead of the November election. Scott praised Senator Mitt Romney, of Utah, the only Republican to break ranks with his party and vote to convict Trump of one of the two charges that could have led to his removal from office. ‘I believe he abused his position of power; withholding those funds is inappropriate,’ Scott said. ‘I believe, as Senator Romney did, that he shouldn’t be in office.’ Scott repeatedly praised Romney for his vote to convict the president on the abuse of power impeachment article, when Romney knew the vote could subject him to criticism from members of his party. ‘It shows a lot about his character and integrity,’ Scott said. ‘We can only hope that if we are in that same, similar situation that we’d do the same.’ Romney announced his decision Wednesday two hours before the GOP-dominated Senate voted to absolve Trump. He said the impeachment oath required him to render ‘impartial justice.’ Since he took office in 2017, Scott has been a frequent critic of Trump, has repeatedly called for an end to the divisiveness in American politics, and has criticized many of the president's policies, including on climate change and immigration. In September, Scott was the first GOP governor to support an impeachment inquiry against the president.  
