{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  13:09, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8042331/Todays-Birthday-26-2.html }
Today's Birthday, February 26: Jacqui Lambie, Australian politician (1971 - ) Holding back tears in the Senate chamber, Senator Jacqui Lambie explained why she couldn't divulge the details after voting to repeal the Medevac Bill to stop asylum seekers on Manus Island and Nauru from being flown to Australia for medical treatment. "My hand is on my heart and I can stand here and say that I would be putting at risk Australia's national security and national interest if I said anything else about this." This was a different side of Jacqui Lambie. Usually seen as a fighter, she had threatened to pass the government's union busting bill unless John Setka from the Victorian CFMEU resigned. "If John Setka doesn't resign then those laws will pass," she said in the Senate. "It is about time the meathead woke up to himself and realised the position he is placing people in." Born in northwestern Tasmania, Lambie was raised in a public housing estate in Devonport. She left school in Year 11 and joined the army, rising to corporal over several years of service. Lambie was medically discharged after sustaining injuries during a field exercise. This was followed by a 10-year battle with the Department of Veterans' Affairs over compensation claims. A single mother of two boys, Lambie's decade-long battle for compensation from the defence forces - culminating in treatment for depression as well as alcohol and pharmaceutical abuse - sent her life into a downward spiral. After a suicide attempt, Lambie received psychological help and turned her life around. Her first foray into politics was with Tasmanian Labor senator Nick Sherry. She then campaigned as an independent before joining the Palmer United Party in 2012. Two years later she left the party following a spat with leader Clive Palmer before founding the Jacqui Lambie Network in 2015. After resigning from the Senate at the end of 2017 Lambie told a Tasmanian radio station "You can't keep a bloody Lambie down. I'm going to have another swing at it." Out of parliament, Lambie had several stints on television shows, including in SBS's Go Back to where You Came From Live and entering the jungle as a contestant on the Ten Network's I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! In the 2019 election, Lambie returned to office as a Senator for Tasmania. 
