politics
{ By Jason Groves Political Editor For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:06, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8001847/Insulting-No-10-nickname-Sajid-Javid-helped-trigger-big-bust-JASON-GROVES-reveals.html }
Chancellor: Rishi Sunak  Foreign Secretary: Dominic Raab  Home Secretary: Priti Patel  Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster: Michael Gove  Justice Secretary: Robert Buckland  Defence Secretary: Ben Wallace  Health Secretary: Matt Hancock  Business Secretary: Alok Sharma  Trade Secretary: Liz Truss  Work and Pensions Secretary: Therese Coffey  Education Secretary: Gavin Williamson  Environment Secretary: George Eustice  Housing Secretary: Robert Jenrick  Transport Secretary: Grant Shapps  Culture Secretary: Oliver Dowden  International Development Secretary: Anne-Marie Trevelyan  Leader of the House of Lords: Baroness Evans of Bowes Park  Northern Ireland Secretary: Brandon Lewis  Scottish Secretary: Alister Jack  Welsh Secretary: Simon Hart   Attorney General: Suella Braverman Chief Secretary to the Treasury: Stephen Barclay  Minister without Portfolio: Amanda Milling  Paymaster General: Penny Mordaunt  Chief Whip: Mark Spencer  Boris Johnson began his fateful meeting with Sajid Javid yesterday by showering him with praise. As the two men sat in the Downing Street Cabinet room around the famous coffin-shaped table, Mr Johnson told the Chancellor he was ‘the right man for the job’. The Prime Minister set out a vision of the two men working together to ‘level up’ the economy. But then he cut to the chase – the job was on offer only if Mr Javid agreed to sack his entire team of political advisers. Mr Johnson cited a series of Treasury briefings which angered No 10, including one in which the department effectively confirmed the go-ahead for HS2 weeks before it was due to be announced. There was a danger, he said, of relations between No 10 and No 11 deteriorating to the level of the Blair-Brown years when the infamous TB-GB rows paralysed the New Labour government. The PM said they had to be ‘more like Cameron and Osborne’, with Downing Street and the Treasury working ‘hand in glove’. And the Prime Minister repeatedly told Mr Javid that he wanted to ‘start afresh’ without interference from Treasury advisers. But Mr Javid stood his ground, saying it would be bad for the Government if the Chancellor and Treasury were ‘neutered’. The Prime Minister suggested he take time to think it through. Mr Javid was shown to a room where a senior Cabinet Office official talked him through No 10’s plans for a new ‘joint’ team of economic advisers based not in the Treasury, but Downing Street. The PM’s chief of staff Sir Eddie Lister and chief whip Mark Spencer also tried to talk the Chancellor round. But it was a humiliation too far. The ambush was not a total surprise. A few days earlier, a well-briefed article on the grassroots Tory website warned that the PM’s chief adviser Dominic Cummings wanted to sack the Chancellor’s two most powerful aides. The article prompted Mr Javid to discuss the possibility of an ultimatum with close friends, who agreed he could not put up with being defenestrated by No 10. ‘We agreed there was no point carrying on if he was left with no authority,’ one friend said. So when he returned to the Cabinet room his mind was made up. He angrily told the PM that ‘no self-respecting minister’ could take the job under those conditions, let alone the Chancellor. Mr Johnson made a final bid to change his mind, inviting him into his office for a private chat. The PM is said to have made a ‘heartfelt plea’ for him to remain, but to no avail. Minutes later, Mr Javid walked out of No 10 as the first Chancellor in decades to never deliver a Budget – and blowing a hole in the PM’s carefully planned reshuffle. Friends of the Chancellor say the seeds of yesterday’s events go back months, with Mr Cummings refusing to respect his independence. In August, the adviser infuriated him by sacking his aide Sonia Khan without consulting him – a move that resulted in a large pay out. Sources in Downing Street gave Mr Javid the mocking nickname ‘Chino’, standing for Chancellor In Name Only. Mr Javid, who had a good personal relationship with Mr Johnson, protested. During the election campaign he sought – and got – a public guarantee that his job was safe, following briefings that he was just keeping the seat warm for rising star Rishi Sunak. At a CBI event in November, the PM gave an ‘absolutely categorical assurance’ that Mr Javid would keep his job, adding: ‘I think he’s doing a fantastic job.’ But Mr Cummings continued to chip away and argued that Mr Javid, his aides and their attachment to Treasury orthodoxy meant the Government would struggle to fulfil its promises to rebalance the economy. And the Chancellor and Mr Cummings reportedly clashed again last month over the appointment of the new governor of the Bank of England. Mr Cummings wanted to promote the bank’s chief economist Andy Haldane, who he felt was in tune with the Government. But he was outmanoeuvred by Mr Javid, who pushed through the appointment of Andrew Bailey. Mr Cummings was also reportedly angered by the Chancellor’s decision to back HS2, a project he privately described as a ‘disaster zone’ but is now going ahead. Mr Javid’s allies believe Mr Cummings was against him from the start. ‘This is about Cummings wanting total control,’ a friend said. ‘But it’s true that he never liked Saj. Whether it was because he wasn’t a Brexiteer from the beginning, or because he didn’t go to Oxbridge I don’t know. He didn’t like him and in this Government if he doesn’t like you, that’s it.’ Mr Javid put on a brave face yesterday, retreating to his home with his sacked advisers where they ordered food from burger joint Five Guys. But in a brief televised clip and a letter of resignation, he made his anger plain. He urged the PM to ensure the Treasury ‘retains as much credibility as possible’ and warned of the dangers of surrounding himself with yes-men. In a parting shot at Mr Cummings, he urged the PM to pick advisers ‘that reflect the character and integrity you would wish to be associated with’. The Prime Minister and his chief adviser got their way. But they have made a powerful enemy in the process. Sajid Javid has quit as chancellor little more than six months into the role and just under a month before he was to deliver his first Budget. His shock decision came after he refused to sack his advisers, a source close to the former home secretary said. Tensions between Number 10 and Number 11 had been simmering since Mr Javid's adviser Sonia Khan was escorted out of Downing Street by police officers after being sacked by Boris Johnson's closest aide Dominic Cummings in August last year. Appointed in July to Mr Johnson's first Cabinet, his first planned Budget in November was cancelled as the Prime Minister pursued a snap election and Mr Javid would have been preparing for the parliamentary set-piece scheduled for March 11. He is the shortest-serving chancellor since Iain Macleod, who died shortly after taking office in 1970, according to the Institute for Government. In public, he identifies as the son of a bus driver, whose father arrived in England from Pakistan in the 1960s with just a pound in his pocket, and to colleagues, he is The Saj. He was a tough-talking home secretary whose hard stance on jihadi bride Shamima Begum's pleas to be allowed back in the UK boosted his popularity among some Tories, but horrified others - particularly after Ms Begum's newborn son later died in a Syrian refugee camp. Mr Javid made it to the final four in the race to replace Theresa May as Tory leader last year, but dropped out and subsequently endorsed Mr Johnson. Born in Rochdale and raised in Bristol, he went to a state school and studied economics and politics at Exeter University. He became MP for Bromsgrove in 2010, leaving behind a career in finance that put him on the trajectory to Number 11. According to his website, Mr Javid was a vice president at the US bank Chase Manhattan at the age of 25 and later moved to Deutsche Bank, rising to senior managing director before he left in 2009. He held roles in the Treasury from 2012 until he was made culture secretary in April 2014, later going on to be business secretary in May 2015 and housing secretary in July 2016. After being named home secretary in April 2018, Mr Javid talked openly about how he experienced racism at an early age and 'could have had a life of crime' after growing up on 'Britain's most dangerous street'. During his stunted leadership campaign, Mr Javid played on his humble beginnings, saying his holidays were spent in Rochdale pretending he was somewhere else. After being knocked out of the leadership race, Mr Javid said: 'Work hard, have faith in your abilities, and don't let anyone try and cut you down to size or say you aren't a big enough figure to aim high. 'You have as much right as anyone to a seat at the top table, to be ambitious for yourself, and to make your voice heard.' Mr Javid, 49, is married to Laura, and has four children and a dog called Bailey. Sajid Javid last night fired a parting blast at Boris Johnson and Dominic Cummings after being ousted in a savage power grab. In a showdown in the Cabinet room, Mr Johnson told the Chancellor that he could stay in the job only if he agreed to sack his aides and hand No 10 ‘joint’ control over economic policy. Mr Javid chose to quit, telling the PM that ‘no self-respecting minister’ could stay on those terms. He is the first chancellor for decades to leave office without delivering a Budget. Rising star Rishi Sunak – a popular figure on the Tory benches – takes his place. In an angry statement, Mr Javid said he had been left with ‘no option’ but to resign following Mr Johnson’s ultimatum. He warned the PM against surrounding himself with yes men, saying it was vital the Treasury ‘retains as much credibility as possible’. In a thinly veiled swipe at Mr Cummings, who clashed repeatedly with him behind the scenes, he urged the PM to pick advisers ‘that reflect the character and integrity you would wish to be associated with’. Mr Johnson was said to be ‘surprised and disappointed’ by his decision to quit, which blew a hole in a meticulously planned Government reshuffle. In a day of Cabinet snakes and ladders: Mr Javid’s departure clears the decks for the PM to drive through a massive spending spree in his bid to ‘level up’ the economy. Friends of the former chancellor suggested that Mr Cummings is the driving force behind controversial plans to hit the better off, including a mansion tax and a raid on higher-rate pension tax relief. Downing Street yesterday refused to say whether the tight tax and spending rules put in place by Mr Javid would remain. The Budget could also be delayed beyond its planned date of March 11. Former Tory leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith last night predicted Mr Javid’s departure would lead to a recasting of the Treasury’s spending rules. ‘There will be fiscal rules, but they will be rules that Downing Street set for themselves to give themselves wriggle room to do what they want,’ he said. Downing Street sources insisted that Mr Johnson made a ‘heartfelt plea’ to Mr Javid to stay during the tense meeting. The PM is understood to have told Mr Javid that he was the ‘best man for the job’. But he said he could not tolerate the growing briefing war between No 10 and the Treasury. Mr Johnson warned there was a risk of the Government descending into a repeat of the dysfunctional Blair-Brown years. Mr Javid’s departure was seen in Westminster as a victory for Mr Cummings, the PM’s chief aide. The two men have clashed over a string of issues, including tax and spending, HS2 and the appointment of the governor of the Bank of England. Mr Javid has never forgiven the PM’s enforcer for sacking his aide Sonia Khan last summer without consulting him. Mr Cummings has been infuriated by unauthorised briefings from the Treasury in recent weeks and told the PM that the Chancellor’s aides had to go, setting up an ultimatum that saw Mr Javid walk out. One Tory source said: ‘It was a win-win for Cummings. Either the Chancellor accepted the humiliation being offered to him and sacrificed his independence, or he quit and Cummings got to put the golden boy in.’ Friends of Mr Javid were scathing about the appointment of Mr Sunak as Chancellor. One said: ‘There was lots of rubbish about Saj being “Chancellor In Name Only”. It was never true, but they’ve got one now.’ However, former Cabinet minister David Gauke said Mr Sunak was in a ‘strong position’. He added: ‘Although there will be a lot of talk about him being Boris Johnson’s placeman, if he wants to assert himself you could argue that he is pretty well unsackable. If I was Rishi, I would be pretty determined to show that I was not a stooge, and demonstrate some independence pretty early on especially in his Budget.’ Under the new arrangement, which Mr Sunak has agreed to, economic policy will be drawn up by the Prime Minister and Chancellor assisted by a joint team of political aides based in Downing Street, not the Treasury. Treasury sources predicted Mr Javid’s removal could result in Mr Cummings pushing ahead with a spending spree at the Budget. One said: ‘Cummings just wants to spend money, he’s not interested in fiscal discipline.’  Julian Smith: Out as Northern Ireland Secretary Julian Smith's removal as Northern Ireland Secretary represents a crushing blow for the man who successfully helped restore powersharing at Stormont after three years of deadlock. Mr Smith did what his predecessors failed to do when he steered the devolved assembly back on track in January but it was not enough to keep him in the Cabinet. He has been booted out by Boris Johnson with critics speculating he was relieved of his duties due to clashes last year over the PM's Brexit policy. An MP for Skipton and Ripon since 2010, he previously held the role of parliamentary secretary to the treasury and chief whip. As chief whip he was tasked with trying - and failing - three times to help pass Theresa May's withdrawal agreement and many were surprised that he was kept in the Cabinet when Mr Johnson took power in July last year. The married 48-year-old was educated at the University of Birmingham, and Balfron High School before going on to have a successful career as an entrepreneur after setting up Arq International, an executive recruiting firm, in 1999. In Parliament since 2010, Mr Smith served on the Scottish Affairs Committee briefly before he became Parliamentary Private Secretary to Minister of State for International Development Sir Alan Duncan MP between September 2010 and 2012. He then became Parliamentary Private Secretary to Justine Greening MP, Secretary of State for International Development, between 2012 and May 2015, before he was appointed an Assistant Government Whip in David Cameron's Government. After the 2016 EU referendum, Mr Smith became one of six MPs who led Mrs May's leadership campaign, and after the campaign's success he was appointed Vice-Chamberlain of the Household - a senior position within the whips' office. Mr Smith attended the DUP annual conference in 2017 after the confidence-and-supply agreement between the Conservatives and the Democratic Unionists was brokered in the wake of the election, and was welcomed as a 'friend' of the party. He backed Remain in the 2016 Brexit referendum and served as chief whip under Mrs May between November 2017 and July 2019 before surprisingly being made Northern Ireland Secretary by Boris Johnson - a role he held for 204 days. He sparked controversy when he was critical of Mrs May's approach, claiming that the government should have made it clear after the 2017 election that it would have to accept a closer relationship with the European Union following Brexit. In a BBC documentary he also criticised ministers, accusing them of trying to undermine Mrs May, claiming their behaviour was the 'worst example of ill-discipline in cabinet in British political history'. In October 2013 The Guardian had claimed that Smith may have breached national security by posting an image of himself alongside military personnel at a high-security US base on his website. Mr Smith says his interests include 'violin and piano' and was a junior international squash player. Geoffrey Cox: Out as Attorney General Relatively unknown in Westminster before becoming Attorney General in 2018, Geoffrey Cox became a key player in Theresa May's government in the run up to the original March 29, 2019 Brexit deadline. He announced himself on the national political scene with a barnstorming speech as the warm up act for Mrs May at Conservative Party conference in October 2018. With his booming voice and soaring rhetoric he left many in the conference hall wondering why he wasn't the prime minister. His professional opinion would later have a major impact on Britain's departure from the EU. MPs wrestled with the government as they demanded Mr Cox's Brexit legal advice be published with the Commons eventually victorious in the contest. The publication of the legal advice in December 2018 torpedoed Mrs May's hopes of getting her Brexit deal through parliament because in it Mr Cox said the UK could not unilaterally leave the Irish border backstop protocol if it was ever implemented. He wrote: 'In the absence of a right of termination, there is a legal risk that the United Kingdom might become subject to protracted and repeating rounds of negotiations.' The 59-year-old QC was chosen to stay in the role as the government's top legal adviser by Boris Johnson when the latter took power in July last year. He first became an MP in 2005 and has represented the seat of Torridge and West Devon ever since. Before his political career he was a barrister, having first been called to the Bar in 1982. He is married and has three children. He has been tipped to chair a democracy commission being planned by the government to examine the relationship between Parliament and the courts.   Andrea Leadsom: Out as Business Secretary A former Tory leadership contender who was forced to apologise to Theresa May for suggesting being a parent made her a better leadership candidate than the childless ex-PM, Ms Leadsom leaves the government after six years on the front bench. Ms Leadsom was appointed Business Secretary by Boris Johnson when he took office in July last year. The Leave supporter, a mother of three, resigned as leader of the House of Commons in May last year amid a backlash against Mrs May's Brexit plan. Mrs Leadsom was hardly a household name when she first entered the fray to succeed David Cameron as leader of the Conservative Party in the wake of the EU referendum in 2016. Her plans to cross the threshold of Number 10 were thwarted when comments which appeared to suggest being a mother gave her an advantage as a potential prime minister over Mrs May saw the then-energy minister's hopes of winning evaporate. In an interview she said: 'I feel that being a mum means you have a real stake in the future of our country, a tangible stake.' Her departure from the leadership race in 2016 resulted in her being appointed environment secretary when Mrs May became premier. After the 2017 general election she was made Commons Leader, a role she held until Mr Johnson moved her to the business department. Mrs Leadsom entered Parliament in 2010 after a 25-year career in banking and finance - realising an ambition she first developed at the age of 13. Educated at Tonbridge Girls Grammar School and Warwick University, she rose to become financial institutions director at Barclays and worked with then Bank of England governor Eddie George to avert a crisis after the 1995 Barings collapse. She later spent a decade in fund management - her financial experience gaining her first a seat on the Treasury Select Committee and then a stint as economic secretary to the Treasury with responsibility for financial services. After a spell as a councillor in South Oxfordshire from 2003-2007 - during which she fought an unsuccessful general election campaign in the safe Labour seat of Knowsley South - she became MP for South Northamptonshire. Esther McVey: Out as Housing Minister Esther McVey found fame as a GMTV presenter in the 1990s before turning to politics, and was considered one of the Conservative Party's strongest media performers. The MP for Tatton – George Osborne's old seat – resigned in protest from the Cabinet over Theresa May's Brexit deal in November 2018 but was brought back to the top table by Boris Johnson last year. Ms McVey made a bid for the leadership after Theresa May quit last year – but finished in last place after the first ballot of MPs. The 51-year-old, who attended Cabinet as employment minister under David Cameron, was the most high-profile Tory casualty of the 2015 general election when she was ousted by Labour in Wirral West. She lost her seat after the unions launched a concerted effort to remove her from a constituency which was surrounded by a sea of red. She returned to Parliament in June 2017 after taking Mr Osborne's seat and was made deputy chief whip in November the same year. In January 2018, she made a remarkable comeback to the Cabinet table when she was appointed Work and Pensions Secretary. In an interview with the Daily Mail late last year, Ms McVey revealed how she had been put into foster care as a baby after she was born to young parents. She said: 'I believe most people in their life will fall upon tough times at some point. I want to give the message that anyone can succeed given the opportunity. But she sent Mrs May's Cabinet into meltdown in November when she dramatically quit in fury at the PM's Brexit divorce deal. She joined Dominic Raab in storming out in fury after the PM put her blueprint to her ministers in a stormy five-hour cabinet session. In March she boosted talk of a leadership bid after going public with her MP lover Philip Davies. The four-year relationship between her and the stubborn backbench MP for Shipley, 47, was already an open secret at Westminster. But the Brexiteer lovers went public to confirm they are 'two individuals, but a couple' in a joint-interview with the Conservative Home website. She later revealed that they were planning to marry after he proposed in April. Theresa Villiers: Out as Environment Secretary One of the leading Brexiteers in the government, Ms Villiers has been ousted as Environment Secretary after only being given the role in July last year.  Boris Johnson brought the divorced 51-year-old ex-barrister, who is descended from Edward II, back into government when he initially took power.  She had served as Northern Ireland Sectary in the coalition government and later under David Cameron's Tory government before being sacked by Theresa May. A lawyer, university lecturer and MEP before entering the Commons in 2005 the London-born and Bristol-educated MP for Chipping Barnet has not always seen eye-to eye with Mr Johnson over the environment.  She had shown her green credentials before her appointment last year having sparked a well-publicised hunt for a mystery litter bug who left their Crunchie chocolate bar wrapper in the House of Commons Chamber. She attacked litterers who dump their rubbish - damaging the environment and harming people's quality of life. And she warned that even the Palace of Westminster is not immune to the anti-social activity. Ms Villiers pulled out a crumpled up Crunchie bar wrapper which she said had been discarded carelessly on the green benches of the House of Commons. Brandishing the shiny wrapper, she said: 'However, I am afraid that it is not just young people who drop litter. 'To illustrate that, I produce this Crunchie wrapper, which I picked up this week after it had been dropped in the back row of the main Chamber of the House of Commons.' 'It is truly depressing that littering occurs even here, in this mother of Parliaments.' Julian Smith: Out as Northern Ireland Secretary Julian Smith's removal as Northern Ireland Secretary represents a crushing blow for the man who successfully helped restore powersharing at Stormont after three years of deadlock. Mr Smith did what his predecessors failed to do when he steered the devolved assembly back on track in January but it was not enough to keep him in the Cabinet. He has been booted out by Boris Johnson with critics speculating he was relieved of his duties due to clashes last year over the PM's Brexit policy. An MP for Skipton and Ripon since 2010, he previously held the role of parliamentary secretary to the treasury and chief whip. As chief whip he was tasked with trying - and failing - three times to help pass Theresa May's withdrawal agreement and many were surprised that he was kept in the Cabinet when Mr Johnson took power in July last year. The married 48-year-old was educated at the University of Birmingham, and Balfron High School before going on to have a successful career as an entrepreneur after setting up Arq International, an executive recruiting firm, in 1999. In Parliament since 2010, Mr Smith served on the Scottish Affairs Committee briefly before he became Parliamentary Private Secretary to Minister of State for International Development Sir Alan Duncan MP between September 2010 and 2012. He then became Parliamentary Private Secretary to Justine Greening MP, Secretary of State for International Development, between 2012 and May 2015, before he was appointed an Assistant Government Whip in David Cameron's Government. After the 2016 EU referendum, Mr Smith became one of six MPs who led Mrs May's leadership campaign, and after the campaign's success he was appointed Vice-Chamberlain of the Household - a senior position within the whips' office. Mr Smith attended the DUP annual conference in 2017 after the confidence-and-supply agreement between the Conservatives and the Democratic Unionists was brokered in the wake of the election, and was welcomed as a 'friend' of the party. He backed Remain in the 2016 Brexit referendum and served as chief whip under Mrs May between November 2017 and July 2019 before surprisingly being made Northern Ireland Secretary by Boris Johnson - a role he held for 204 days. He sparked controversy when he was critical of Mrs May's approach, claiming that the government should have made it clear after the 2017 election that it would have to accept a closer relationship with the European Union following Brexit. In a BBC documentary he also criticised ministers, accusing them of trying to undermine Mrs May, claiming their behaviour was the 'worst example of ill-discipline in cabinet in British political history'. In October 2013 The Guardian had claimed that Smith may have breached national security by posting an image of himself alongside military personnel at a high-security US base on his website. Mr Smith says his interests include 'violin and piano' and was a junior international squash player. Geoffrey Cox: Out as Attorney General Relatively unknown in Westminster before becoming Attorney General in 2018, Geoffrey Cox became a key player in Theresa May's government in the run up to the original March 29, 2019 Brexit deadline. He announced himself on the national political scene with a barnstorming speech as the warm up act for Mrs May at Conservative Party conference in October 2018. With his booming voice and soaring rhetoric he left many in the conference hall wondering why he wasn't the prime minister. His professional opinion would later have a major impact on Britain's departure from the EU. MPs wrestled with the government as they demanded Mr Cox's Brexit legal advice be published with the Commons eventually victorious in the contest. The publication of the legal advice in December 2018 torpedoed Mrs May's hopes of getting her Brexit deal through parliament because in it Mr Cox said the UK could not unilaterally leave the Irish border backstop protocol if it was ever implemented. He wrote: 'In the absence of a right of termination, there is a legal risk that the United Kingdom might become subject to protracted and repeating rounds of negotiations.' The 59-year-old QC was chosen to stay in the role as the government's top legal adviser by Boris Johnson when the latter took power in July last year. He first became an MP in 2005 and has represented the seat of Torridge and West Devon ever since. Before his political career he was a barrister, having first been called to the Bar in 1982. He is married and has three children. He has been tipped to chair a democracy commission being planned by the government to examine the relationship between Parliament and the courts.   Andrea Leadsom: Out as Business Secretary A former Tory leadership contender who was forced to apologise to Theresa May for suggesting being a parent made her a better leadership candidate than the childless ex-PM, Ms Leadsom leaves the government after six years on the front bench. Ms Leadsom was appointed Business Secretary by Boris Johnson when he took office in July last year. The Leave supporter, a mother of three, resigned as leader of the House of Commons in May last year amid a backlash against Mrs May's Brexit plan. Mrs Leadsom was hardly a household name when she first entered the fray to succeed David Cameron as leader of the Conservative Party in the wake of the EU referendum in 2016. Her plans to cross the threshold of Number 10 were thwarted when comments which appeared to suggest being a mother gave her an advantage as a potential prime minister over Mrs May saw the then-energy minister's hopes of winning evaporate. In an interview she said: 'I feel that being a mum means you have a real stake in the future of our country, a tangible stake.' Her departure from the leadership race in 2016 resulted in her being appointed environment secretary when Mrs May became premier. After the 2017 general election she was made Commons Leader, a role she held until Mr Johnson moved her to the business department. Mrs Leadsom entered Parliament in 2010 after a 25-year career in banking and finance - realising an ambition she first developed at the age of 13. Educated at Tonbridge Girls Grammar School and Warwick University, she rose to become financial institutions director at Barclays and worked with then Bank of England governor Eddie George to avert a crisis after the 1995 Barings collapse. She later spent a decade in fund management - her financial experience gaining her first a seat on the Treasury Select Committee and then a stint as economic secretary to the Treasury with responsibility for financial services. After a spell as a councillor in South Oxfordshire from 2003-2007 - during which she fought an unsuccessful general election campaign in the safe Labour seat of Knowsley South - she became MP for South Northamptonshire. Esther McVey: Out as Housing Minister Esther McVey found fame as a GMTV presenter in the 1990s before turning to politics, and was considered one of the Conservative Party's strongest media performers. The MP for Tatton – George Osborne's old seat – resigned in protest from the Cabinet over Theresa May's Brexit deal in November 2018 but was brought back to the top table by Boris Johnson last year. Ms McVey made a bid for the leadership after Theresa May quit last year – but finished in last place after the first ballot of MPs. The 51-year-old, who attended Cabinet as employment minister under David Cameron, was the most high-profile Tory casualty of the 2015 general election when she was ousted by Labour in Wirral West. She lost her seat after the unions launched a concerted effort to remove her from a constituency which was surrounded by a sea of red. She returned to Parliament in June 2017 after taking Mr Osborne's seat and was made deputy chief whip in November the same year. In January 2018, she made a remarkable comeback to the Cabinet table when she was appointed Work and Pensions Secretary. In an interview with the Daily Mail late last year, Ms McVey revealed how she had been put into foster care as a baby after she was born to young parents. She said: 'I believe most people in their life will fall upon tough times at some point. I want to give the message that anyone can succeed given the opportunity. But she sent Mrs May's Cabinet into meltdown in November when she dramatically quit in fury at the PM's Brexit divorce deal. She joined Dominic Raab in storming out in fury after the PM put her blueprint to her ministers in a stormy five-hour cabinet session. In March she boosted talk of a leadership bid after going public with her MP lover Philip Davies. The four-year relationship between her and the stubborn backbench MP for Shipley, 47, was already an open secret at Westminster. But the Brexiteer lovers went public to confirm they are 'two individuals, but a couple' in a joint-interview with the Conservative Home website. She later revealed that they were planning to marry after he proposed in April. Theresa Villiers: Out as Environment Secretary One of the leading Brexiteers in the government, Ms Villiers has been ousted as Environment Secretary after only being given the role in July last year.  Boris Johnson brought the divorced 51-year-old ex-barrister, who is descended from Edward II, back into government when he initially took power.  She had served as Northern Ireland Sectary in the coalition government and later under David Cameron's Tory government before being sacked by Theresa May. A lawyer, university lecturer and MEP before entering the Commons in 2005 the London-born and Bristol-educated MP for Chipping Barnet has not always seen eye-to eye with Mr Johnson over the environment.  She had shown her green credentials before her appointment last year having sparked a well-publicised hunt for a mystery litter bug who left their Crunchie chocolate bar wrapper in the House of Commons Chamber. She attacked litterers who dump their rubbish - damaging the environment and harming people's quality of life. And she warned that even the Palace of Westminster is not immune to the anti-social activity. Ms Villiers pulled out a crumpled up Crunchie bar wrapper which she said had been discarded carelessly on the green benches of the House of Commons. Brandishing the shiny wrapper, she said: 'However, I am afraid that it is not just young people who drop litter. 'To illustrate that, I produce this Crunchie wrapper, which I picked up this week after it had been dropped in the back row of the main Chamber of the House of Commons.' 'It is truly depressing that littering occurs even here, in this mother of Parliaments.' 
