politics
{ By Cheyenne Roundtree For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:58, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8000677/Hope-Hicks-lobbying-Trump-return-realizing-mistake-going-Fox.html }
Hope Hicks had been lobbying President Trump to bring her back to the White House after regretting her decision to go to Fox, an insider exclusively told DailyMail.com.  News broke on Thursday that Hicks was returning to Washington D.C. to take a senior adviser position reporting to Jared Kushner. Her official title will be counselor to the president, a title Kellyanne Conway also holds. But the insider explained that working for Kushner is temporary and the plan is to ease Hicks back into the administration so she can return to her old job as White House Communications Director, now held by Stephanie Grisham.  The 31-year-old resigned in early 2018 in the wake of DailyMail.com revealing allegations of domestic violence against her staff secretary boyfriend Rob Porter, who ultimately was booted from his job.  It remains to be seen if Porter, who sources say is still very much in the picture, will also be welcomed back into the White House fold.  After her departure from the White House, Hicks went to LA to head up the communications department at Fox Corporation, the parent company to Trump's preferred network, Fox News.  But even with her fat $1 million salary, insiders say she wasn't happy there and believes taking the position was a 'mistake'.  The source said: 'Hope has been lobbying to come back to the White House for weeks. 'Trump's team had originally asked if she wanted to join his re-election campaign, but Hope was determined to get back to the White House.'  Hope was also frustrated that she didn't have enough sway at Fox to impact its news coverage about the president, which has taken a less flattering turn in recent months. The source said: 'The President has been p***ed at Fox News and called Hope to fix it but she's really been powerless to do anything.' In a statement today, Fox praised Hicks upon her departure, as a spokesperson said: 'She was a key executive team member at the inception of Fox Corporation and throughout this important first year. We are proud of the work Hope has done and wish her well in her future endeavors.'   Now Hicks wants her old job back and 'her goal is to get rid of Grisham and reprise her role communications director.' The source explained that Hicks is very close friends with Hogan Gidley, the deputy press secretary, and the two have a 'deal', in which she has his support and she'll make him press secretary if she wins her old job back.   Hicks and Grisham were friends at one point, with Grisham responding to news of Hicks joining Fox in 2018, tweeting out: 'FOX won’t find anyone smarter or more talented than Hope Hicks. So happy for my friend. They are beyond lucky to have you and the East Coast misses you already.'   Grisham said to the New York Times on Thursday that Hicks is 'one of the most talented and savvy individuals I have come across.  'She has always impressed me with her quiet confidence, loyalty and expertise and I am beyond thrilled to welcome Hope back to the White House.'     A former White House communications official who is close to the situation pushed back on the notion that Hicks had any kind of plan to make staff changes in her new capacity. ‘She’s not going to clean house,’ said the official. ‘She harkens back to those days, and loves it,’ the official continued.  Hicks’ new role will not have her interfacing with the press or developing a daily message. Instead, she’ll be focusing on policy and strategy as well as travel and politics. It took some convincing to get her to leave her lucrative perch at Fox, the official said.  Also returning to the White House is John McEntee, who used to be Trump's former personal aide until former chief of staff John Kelly fired him over security clearance issues, reported Axios.  McEntee isn't returning to his old position but instead will lead the Presidential Personnel Office, which is in charge of hiring across the federal government.  Trump has been feeling outnumbered by 'snakes' and wants to get rid of staffers who are disloyal, and he views McEntee as a loyal supporter, according to Axios.  Hicks is also viewed as one of Trump's most trusted staffers, suggesting Trump is calling back his favorites as his re-election campaign gears up.  As for Hicks' relationship with Porter, the source said the two are still together and it's being discussed if he'll return to the White House too in some capacity.  Porter was forced to resign from his position after abuse allegations from both his ex-wives - Colbie Holderness and Jennifer Willoughby - came to light in bombshell DailyMail.com reporting.  Willoughby told DailyMail.com of the torment Porter allegedly put her through.  And Holderness detailed Porter's alleged physical and mental abuse, while also providing photos of her black eye that she claims she got when Porter punched her in the face.   Since leaving the West Wing, Hicks moved to Los Angeles to head the communications department of the Fox Corporation, the Rupert Murdoch-owned parent company of Fox News Channel.  She was last seen publicly out and about in late September, on a walk with her friend and heading to an eyelash appointment in Los Angeles. Hicks attempted to go incognito on her beauty salon trip with large aviator sunglasses and a baseball cap pulled low.  Hicks was one of the president's original members of his 2016 campaign team.  A former model, Hicks came to work for the president via his daughter Ivanka Trump and took on the role of campaign press secretary without any prior political experience.  Ivanka excitedly tweeted out on Thursday: 'Welcome back Hope!'   Hicks then joined the administration, first in the newly created role of White House director of strategic communications.  In August 2017, she was promoted to interim White House communications director. A month later she was given the job permanently.  She was the first person to hold the job full-time, following Anthony Scaramucci, who was fired after just 10 days on the job.  
