politics
{ By Raven Saunt For Mailonline   Published:  19:00, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8001345/Labour-MP-Tracy-Brabins-dress-sparked-outrage-Commons-sells-20-200-eBay.html }
The controversial off-the-shoulder dress worn by a Labour MP in the House of Commons has sold for £20,200 in a charity auction. Tracy Brabin, 58, sparked outrage last week after her black off-the-shoulder dress slipped down her arm at the despatch box.  The shadow culture secretary was slammed for the 'inappropriate' Westminster attire and branded a 'hungover tart' by trolls on social media.  But amid the uproar, the Batley and Spen MP decided to put the £35 ASOS dress on eBay to raise money for charity where it was sold earlier this evening for £20,200.  Girlguiding UK, the charity which will be reviving the funds, has since posted on Twitter to thank those who placed a bid on the dress. It said: 'One week and 180 bids later, you've raised an incredible £20,200!  'We're so grateful to all the @eBay_UK bidders and of course to @TracyBrabin. 'Thank you for donating your dress to @Girlguiding to help us build the confidence of girls today to be the leaders of tomorrow.' Ms Brabin was quick to respond to their post and added: 'Just so grateful to everyone who placed a bid and rest assured there will be young girls who’s lives will be changed because of this money.  'THANK YOU.' The listing posted by Ms Brabin, who used to be an actress on Coronation Street, originally read: 'Black dress worn by Tracy Brabin MP in "shouldergate" as widely covered across the media. 'This is an ASOS dress which has been flying off the shelves as a result of the coverage - and is now sold out! 'All money raised will go to Girlguiding UK to support their work helping girls build confidence and self-esteem, in the hope that they grow up to be leaders.'  Ms Brabin, who won her seat in the by-election triggered by the death of murdered MP Jo Cox, admitted the dress was off-the-shoulder but said that it had slipped down further when she leaned across the despatch box to speak.  She claimed her broken ankle meant she had to stoop further while asking a question about the ongoing row on journalists in Downing Street which left her arm exposed.     One Twitter user shared a photograph of her wearing the dress and asked: 'Is this really appropriate attire for parliament?' Critics including Piers Morgan also branded the outfit as 'inappropriate for the Commons'.  TV commentator Carole Malone added: 'It wasn't just off the shoulder it was completely off the shoulder.  'There is a dress code in Parliament. If a male MP turned up in joggers and track suit he would be criticised and rightly so. When you wear something like that it detracts form what you're saying.'  The dress was later a topic of discussion on the BBC's Question Time on Thursday where one audience member described it as 'a disco outfit'.  In a sharply worded response, Ms Brabin, who played Tricia Armstrong on Corrie between 1994 and 1997, replied: 'Sorry I don't have time to reply to all of you commenting on this but I can confirm I'm not.... 'A slag, Hungover, A tart, About to breastfeed, A slapper, Drunk, Just been banged over a wheelie bin. Who knew people could get so emotional over a shoulder.'  She later told Lorraine Kelly on her ITV show: 'I had been at an event with UK Music and the thing about the points of order, they come at you as a surprise, so you're not always camera ready when you are in politics.  'It did slip slightly, because I have a broken ankle and I had to lean a little bit on the dispatch box.'  On Friday Labour leadership contender Rebecca Long-Bailey defended Ms Brabin and criticised the levels of scrutiny faced by women politicians over their appearance. Speaking to BBC Breakfast, she said: 'Women tend to get that scrutiny far more than men. It is routine for women in politics and in public life, unfortunately.' ASOS' purse-friendly £35 off-the-shoulder number, which is flying off the online retailer's shelves at lightning speed after Ms Brabin wore it while speaking in the Commons yesterday, offers fashion fans a versatile - and more risque - twist on a timeless classic.  Away from the high street, couture designers have long been fans of this particularly flattering take on the LBD design.  Roland Mouret is currently selling a similar incarnation of the black shoulder-baring dress for a princely £1,757, while US designer Norma Kamali has a more affordable option, retailing at £105. So, what's the appeal? Versatility; with a smart jacket, the pleated pencil dress can seamlessly become business attire.  And the more daring shoulder element ensures it can be transformed effortlessly into evening wear. A kick-split at the back of the dress makes it comfortable to wear too.  ASOS' cut-price version of the close-fitting classic uses Bodycon to accentuate the figure in all the right places - and might actually be reasonably modest were it not for the more risky off-the-shoulder element.  Indeed, Ms Brabin admitted that the dress' shoulder strap had 'slipped' when she reached to the microphone to speak yesterday.   
