{ By Rory Tingle For Mailonline   Published:  15:16, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8000345/Pound-soars-Rishi-Sunak-replaces-Sajid-Javid-Chancellor.html }
The pound rose today as Rishi Sunak replaced Sajid Javid as Chancellor, with the City hoping he will open the spending taps on big projects.  Sterling was 1.3046 dollars at 3pm compared to 1.2976 dollars at the previous close, achieving a one-week high.  Mr Javid had reportedly tried to resist calls from the PM's chief advisor Dominic Cummings to dramatically increase spending, so experts believe his dismissal could 'open the fiscal floodgates'.   The pound had initially dipped amid reports Mr Javid had quit after being told to sack all his advisers and form a 'team' with Number 10, but it rose again as Mr Sunak's name being floated and eventually confirmed. Now, with the former hedge fund manager in charge, investors expect more cash for infrastructure and perhaps even tax cuts are on the cards.  Neil Wilson, chief market analyst for Markets.com, said: 'Boris Johnson is taking the Kirstie Allsopp approach to how to make Number 10 and Number 11 work for him: that is, just knock through. 'The fiscal floodgates are about to open - whatever brake the Treasury might have had on Number 10 has been cut entirely with this move.'   Prior to the announcement that Mr Javid had quit, a pound was worth 1.298 dollars. Within minutes it fell to 1.296 dollars, before rising to 1.304 dollars - a one-week high. Mr Wilson added: 'This is a blatant power grab by Boris (Johnson) and (Dominic) Cummings over the Treasury - and it comes barely a month ahead of the first post-election Budget. 'On first glance, I think this means purse strings are being loosened. 'Spending will be dictated by political needs and necessity, rather than the Treasury acting as a brake on political giveaways. 'We know Boris has a predilection for the big infrastructure projects and we also know his plans to level up with spending on the North and Midlands.' Tory rising star dubbed the 'Maharajah of the Yorkshire Dales' and married to an Indian tech billionaire's daughter: How GP's son Rishi Sunak powered up government ranks to be named Chancellor at just 39 James Tapsfield, Political Editor for MailOnline   Rishi Sunak has had a meteoric rise to become Chancellor at the age of just 39. And although he has taken the job at No11 thanks to the bombshell departure of Sajid Javid, few at Westminster doubted he would reach the top in the end.  When Mr Sunak was elected to represent the safe seat of Richmond at the 2015 election - succeeding Tory former leader Lord Hague - he was memorably dubbed the  'Maharaja of the Dales'. He is believed to be one of the richest members of Parliament, living with his family in a magnificent Georgian manor house in a small North Yorkshire village. A multi-millionaire in his own right thanks to his investment career, Mr Sunak is married to Akshata Murthy, whose father N.R. Narayana Murthy is India's sixth-wealthiest man. Self-made billionaire Murthy Sr is a household name in India after making his fortune through consulting giant Infosys. Born in Durham and educated at Oxford University, Dominic Cummings  makes much of his northern roots though he is married to the daughter of an aristocrat. The 48-year-old father-of-one rose to notoriety in politics first as an adviser to Michael Gove and then as campaign director at the official Brexit referendum campaign group. Many will know him as the character played by Benedict Cumberbatch in the HBO/Channel 4 comedy-drama film Brexit, and for as his role in covering a red bus with the notorious £350 million NHS claim. Mr Cummings has been credited with creating the 'take back control' slogan and criticised over the monetary figure advertised on the side of the bus which travelled the country. He would later say the pledge, which was even dismissed by the UK's chief statistician, was 'necessary to win'. The campaign group was also fined £61,000 for breaking the rules in the build-up to the vote. Cummings is variously seen as a genius, a maverick, or a troublemaker. He was once also labelled a 'career psychopath' by former prime minister David Cameron. But Mr Cummings is not shy of firing off an insult himself. In 2017, he described David Davis, then the Brexit secretary, as 'thick as mince, lazy as a toad and vain as Narcissus'. Mr Johnson appointed Mr Cummings to his top team as senior adviser at Number 10 when he became Prime Minister in the summer of 2019. The appointment was controversial, given that he was found to be in contempt of Parliament earlier in the year for refusing to give evidence to MPs investigating misinformation. But Mr Cummings appears to enjoy controversy, deliberating cultivating a reputation as someone who does not play by the rules of conventional politics.   Akshata herself runs fashion label Akshata Designs and is also a director of a venture capital firm founded by her father in 2010. Her shareholding in Infosys alone is estimated at £185million.  Mr Sunak is a solid media performer, repeatedly offered up by Downing Street for tricky interviews. The staunch Brexiteer was promoted to Boris Johnson's Cabinet after the dramatic reshuffle in July.  Until now he was Mr Javid's deputy, with the title Chief Secretary to the Treasury. The two of them seemed to develop something of a 'bromance'. Only in December, Mr Sunak - a big Star Wars fan - tweeted about their outing to see The Rise of Skywalker.  'Great night out with the boss - Jedi Master @sajidjavid,' he tweeted alongside a picture of them arm-in-arm.  Mr Sunak, who boarded at the £40,000-a-year Winchester College, was born in Southampton. A third-generation Indian immigrant, Mr Sunak's father was an NHS GP and his mother ran a chemist's. After Oxford he studied at California's Stanford University where he met Akshata. The couple married in her home city of Bangalore in 2009 in a two-day ceremony attended by 1,000 guests. After the couple returned to Britain, Sunak worked for a London hedge fund before setting up his own business, Theleme Partners, in 2010, with an initial fund of $700million.  While building the hedge fund he spent a couple of days doing voluntary work for the Conservatives. He then decided he would like to go into politics full-time. When Mr Sunak went canvassing for the first time his Richmond seat, which has a relatively small ethnic minority population, one sheep farmer reportedly said: 'Nice to meet you. I see you've got a better sun tan than William Hague.' Mr Sunak has praised his his father-in-law's favourite saying: 'In God we trust — but everyone else needs to bring data to the table.'    
