{ By Associated Press   Published:  10:07, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7999413/Far-right-looms-Germany-commemorates-Dresden-bombing.html }
DRESDEN, Germany (AP) - Germany's president called Thursday for his countrymen to stand up to extremism and nationalism, warning that hatred and a desire for authoritarianism are on the rise again in Europe, including in his country. Speaking at a ceremony marking the 75th anniversary of the bombing of Dresden 's bombing by allied forces at the end of World War II, Frank-Walter Steinmeier said it was important to recall who had started the devastating conflict. The man-made firestorm, vividly captured by American author Kurt Vonnegut in his book "Slaughterhouse - Five," and the destruction of large parts of the baroque eastern German city have become a rallying point for those seeking to portray Germans as victims in the war. "It was Germans who began this gruesome war," Steinmeier said. "We won't forget the German guilt," he added. "And we stand by the responsibility that remains." Still, Steinmeier said those who perished in the Dresden bombings deserved to be commemorated, just like those killed by Nazi Germany's aerial bombings in Guernica, Coventry, Naples, Le Havre and the Polish town of Wielun, where 1,200 people were killed by the Luftwaffe in the first hours of World War II. People form a human chain on the banks of the Elbe river with the historical old town in background, marking the 75th anniversary of the destruction of Dresden in the Second World War, in Dresden, Germany, Thursday Feb. 13, 2020. A 1945 allied bombing campaign reduced the centre of Dresden to rubble leaving about 25,000 people dead. (Robert Michael/dpa via AP) Historians say the Feb. 13-15, 1945, bombardment of Dresden by American and British planes killed up to 25,000 people, including refugees and prisoners of war. The toll was comparable to those from aerial bombings of other large German cities. German nationalists have for decades promoted the myth that as many as half a million civilians were killed in Dresden. Most recently the idea has been taken up by members of the nationalist Alternative for Germany party, which has grown into a significant force in German politics since its founding seven years ago. The party, which goes by the German acronym AfD, has moved steadily to the right over the years. Bjoern Hoecke, a regional AfD leader who once called for a "180-degree turn" in the way Germany commemorates its past, was once considered a fringe figure but now represents the party's core. AfD's co-chairman, Tino Chrupalla, recently stated that the bombing of Dresden cost "about 100,000 lives." While such claims are dismissed by experts and condemned as revisionism by centrist parties, they reflect Alternative for Germany's tactic of gaining attention by breaking taboos. Last week, the far-right party threw German politics into turmoil by unexpectedly backing a centrist candidate as governor in Thuringia state. The fumbled reaction to the situation by two other political parties - including Chancellor Angela Merkel's center-right Christian Democrats - triggered widespread outrage and numerous resignations, including that of Merkel's heir apparent. Steinmeier alluded to the incident in his Dresden speech, warning that "if elected lawmakers make the parliaments in which they sit look foolish and ridiculous, then that's an attempt to destroy democracy from within." "It's not enough for democrats to shudder and turn away in disgust," he said. "We have to reject all forms of hatred and incitement, speak out against insults and counter prejudice." "We all, each in their own way, carry a responsibility for the way we live together and for the democracy in our country," said Steinmeier. "That, too, is a lesson from the wrong track Germany took, which led to the destruction of Dresden." His words were echoed by Marco Wanderwitz, a lawmaker from Merkel's Christian Democrats who was recently named as the center-right party's point-man in eastern Germany. Wanderwitz said other parties had walked into the AfD's "trap" in Thuringia and that there could be no question of cooperating with the far right in the future. "We have to keep countering their claims, explain the context and say when taboos have been broken," he told The Associated Press. AfD's local chapter staged a small event in the city Thursday, calling for a "dignified commemoration" of the bombing alongside large posters of piles of death bodies. A group of left-wing protesters dressed in pink played drums nearby. After his speech, Steinmeier joined the Duke of Kent, a cousin of Britain's Queen Elizabeth II, and thousands of Dresdeners to form a human peace chain in a gesture of reconciliation and to commemorate the victims of Nazi atrocities and mass bombings by all sides during World War II. Also among those forming the human chain in icy rain near the rebuilt Dresden Frauenkirche church were Gisela Hahn and Gottfried Koehler. "We've had 75 years of peace in Europe," said Koehler, who recalled seeing Dresden burning from afar as a small child. "That's why we're here." German Federal President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, centre, stands with various dignitaries and guest including Britain's Duke of Kent, 2nd right, and Michael Kretschmer Prime Minister of Saxony, left, and his partner Annett Hofmann, as they join a human chain, marking the 75th anniversary of the destruction of Dresden in the Second World War, in Dresden, Germany, Thursday Feb. 13, 2020. A 1945 allied bombing campaign reduced the centre of Dresden to rubble leaving about 25,000 people dead. (Jens B'ttner/dpa via AP) The sun shines behind Dresden's Old Town skyline with the Frauenkirche cathedral (Church of Our Lady), reflected in a puddle, in Dresden, Germany, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020 two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center. (AP Photo/Jens Meyer) Visitors walk in the Frauenkirche cathedral (Church of Our Lady) in Dresden, Germany, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020 two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center. (AP Photo/Jens Meyer) A child lights a candle in the Frauenkirche cathedral (Church of Our Lady) in Dresden, Germany, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020 two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center. (AP Photo/Jens Meyer) A combination of two pictures of the same scene over 50 years apart, with left showing the ruin of the Frauenkirche Cathedral (Church of Our Lady) in Dresden, Germany, pictured on March 13, 1967 and right the same cathedral pictured Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020, two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center, that is now restored.. (left: AP Photo, right: AP Photo/Jens Meyer) The sun shines behind Dresden's Old Town skyline with the Frauenkirche cathedral (Church of Our Lady), reflected in a puddle, in Dresden, Germany Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020 two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center. (AP Photo/Jens Meyer) An inscript is fixed at the Altmarkt (Old Market) ground in Dresden, Germany, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020 two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. Part of the inscript reads: '13 until 14 February 1945 - 6865 bodies were cremated here'. After the bombardment on Dresden of 13 and 14 February 1945, the Altmarkt was one of the two locations where bodies of casualties were cremated on large pyres. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center. (AP Photo/Jens Meyer) A memorial stone stands in front of the Frauenkirche cathedral (Church of Our Lady) in Dresden, Germany, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020 two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center. (AP Photo/Jens Meyer) Visitors walk in the Frauenkirche cathedral (Church of Our Lady) in Dresden, Germany, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020 two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center. (AP Photo/Jens Meyer) A visitor sits behind candles in the Frauenkirche cathedral (Church of Our Lady) in Dresden, Germany, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2020 two days before the 75th anniversary of the Allied bombing of Dresden during WWII. British and U.S. bombers on Feb. 13-14, 1945 destroyed Dresden's centuries-old baroque city center. (AP Photo/Jens Meyer) In the morning view of the historic old town scenery at the Elbe with the Frauenkirche,the Staendehaus, the Hofkirche, the town hall, the Hausmannsturm, the Kreuzkirche and the Residenzschloss are seen on Thursday, Feb.13, 2020. On the 75th anniversary of the destruction of Dresden in the Second World War, the city commemorates with numerous events. On 13 and 14 February 1945, Allied bombers reduced the centre of the Elbe city to rubble and ashes. Up to 25,000 people lost their lives. (Robert Michael/dpa via AP) People form a human chain on the banks of the Elbe river with the historical old town in background, marking the 75th anniversary of the destruction of Dresden in the Second World War, in Dresden, Germany, Thursday Feb. 13, 2020. A 1945 allied bombing campaign reduced the centre of Dresden to rubble leaving about 25,000 people dead. (Robert Michael/dpa via AP) People gather in front of the Frauenkirche for the opening event of the human chain on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the destruction of Dresden in the Second World War, in Dresden, Germany, Thursday Feb. 13, 2020. A 1945 allied bombing campaign reduced the centre of Dresden to rubble leaving up to 25,000 people dead. (Jens B'ttner/dpa via AP) Flowers in the colours of Dresden are lying on the Altmarkt at a memorial to the victims of the bombing of Dresden in the Second World War 75 years ago, Dresden, Germany, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. On the 75th anniversary of the destruction of Dresden in the Second World War, the city commemorates with numerous events. On 13 and 14 February 1945, Allied bombers reduced the centre of the Elbe city to rubble and ashes. Up to 25,000 people lost their lives. (Jens Buettner/dpa via AP) 
