{ By Martin Robinson, Chief Reporter For Mailonline and Joe Middleton For Mailonline   Published:  09:04, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037135/Julian-Assange-supporters-camp-ahead-WikiLeaks-founders-fight-against-extradition-US.html }
Julian Assange's father has said it is 'simply untrue' that his son's Wikileaks revelations put sources' lives in danger - as his US extradition battle yesterday was told he would be at a 'high risk' of suicide if he was sent to an American prison. Opening the case against the 48-year-old on Monday, James Lewis QC said some sources 'disappeared' after he put them at risk of 'serious harm, torture or even death'. He told District Judge Vanessa Baraitser that information published by WikiLeaks was 'useful to an enemy' of the US - with material found at al Qaida leader Osama bin Laden's compound in Pakistan when he was killed in a 2011 raid. Responding after the hearing, Assange's father John Shipton said that 'do damage was done.' He said: 'The essential element of the prosecution case was that the sources were endangered, that their sources were endangered, this is simply not true.  'In Chelsea Manning's trial the Pentagon spokesman under oath at the trial said that nobody was hurt. Robert Gates testimony before congress, Robert Gates is ex-secretary of defence, he said that yes it's embarrassing, yes it's awkward, but that no damage was done.' Assange, who is being held in Belmarsh Prison after being dragged from the Ecuadorian embassy last year, appeared in the dock at the London court next door today for the first day of his extraordinary British legal face-off with Donald Trump's Government.   He is battling to avoid extradition to Virginia where he faces 18 charges and a jail term of up to 175 years for leaking state secrets in 250,000 classified documents published by WikiLeaks online in 2010. But Assange's QC Edward Fitzgerald said extradition to an American prison extradition would be the 'height of inhumanity', exposing him to inhumane conditions in an American prison, leading to a high risk of suicide. James Lewis QC, representing the US Government, said Assange had conspired with former US army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning to hack Department of Defense computers and share its secrets.   Mr Lewis said documents that could only have been sourced from WikiLeaks were found in Osama Bin Laden's Pakistani compound after US Navy SEALs raided it and shot him dead in 2011.  This, argued Mr Lewis, is clear evidence that the information from the leaks was 'useful to the enemies of the United States of America'.  The British QC added: 'The US is aware of sources, whose redacted names and other identifying information was contained in classified documents published by WikiLeaks, who subsequently disappeared'.  Mr Fitzgerald outlined the 48-year-old's defence claiming he is an innocent man whose extradition is 'politically-motivated' by the Trump administration who want his 'head on a pike' to scare off potential leakers and whistleblowers.  The US Department of Justice has charged Wikileaks founder Julian Assange with 18 crimes  - 17 under the Espionage Act and one under computer hacking legislation. Officials say Assange, as founder of WikiLeaks, endangered US informants in Iran, Syria, China, Iraq and Afghanistan by publishing unredacted documents that identified them.  The 18 charges against Assange, filed in Virginia last year, are: Count 1: Conspiracy to receive national defense information Counts 2-4: Obtaining National Defense Information Counts 5-8: Obtaining National Defense Information Counts 9-11: Disclosure of National Defense Information Counts 12-14: Disclosure of National Defense Information Counts 15-17: Disclosure of National Defense Information Count 18: Conspiracy to Commit Computer Intrusion (Hacking)   He said: 'Prosecution is not motivated by genuine concern for criminal justice but by politics. This extradition should be barred because the prosecution is being pursued for political motives and not in good faith'.  He added the extradition attempt was directed at Assange 'because of the political opinions he holds', and said he would be denied a fair trial in the United States. On the first day of Assange's extradition case, which will end in May, it has emerged:  Up to 500 supporters including fashion designer Vivienne Westwood were camped outside and District Judge Vanessa Baraitser was forced to send a message out to the crowd asking them to reduce the volume of their 'Free Julian Assange' chanting because it was disrupting proceedings.  Assange later stood up in the dock and said: 'I am very appreciative of the public support and understand they must be disgusted..' But the judge stopped him from speaking, instead asking his lawyer, Edward Fitzgerald QC, to address her. He said: 'What Mr Assange is saying is he can't hear and can't concentrate because of the noise outside.' Julian Assange would be a suicide risk of extradited to the US, his legal team has said.  Edward Fitzgerald QC, representing Assange (together right today), outlined the 48-year-old's defence and called Trump's pursuit of his client 'political'. Mr Fitzgerald said: 'Prosecution is not motivated by genuine concern for criminal justice but by politics. 'This extradition should be barred because the prosecution is being pursued for political motives and not in good faith.' Mr Fitzgerald continued that Assange would be at risk of inhuman and degrading conditions in an American prison, and would be at risk of suicide. He added the extradition attempt was directed at Assange 'because of the political opinions he holds', and said he would be denied a fair trial in the United States. Mr Fitzgerald continued: 'It would involve a fundamental denial of his right to a fair trial. It would expose him to inhuman and degrading treatment.' He added that Assange had not assisted whistleblower Chelsea Manning in accessing the documents, as has been claimed. Mr Fitzgerald also said the delay in making the extradition request showed the political nature of the case. He continued: 'President Trump came into power with a new approach for freedom of the press... amounting effectively to declaring war on investigative journalists. 'It's against that background Julian Assange has been made an example of. 'It's against that background the Trump administration decided to make an example of Julian Assange, he was the obvious sign of everything Trump condemned.' Assange's legal team argue his case could lead to criminalising activities crucial to investigative journalists - but Mr Lewis said being a journalist 'does not excuse criminality' and 'it is inconceivable any responsible publication would knowingly publish information that puts people's lives at risk'. He added: 'The defence wish to paint Mr Assange as a defender of liberty but that is not for this court to decide'.    Mr Lewis said the majority of the charges relate to 'straightforward criminal' activity, which he described as a 'conspiracy to steal from and hack into' the department of defence computer system along with former US army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning. 'These are ordinary criminal charges and any person, journalist or source who hacks or attempts to gain unauthorised access to a secure system or aids and abets others to do so is guilty of computer misuse,' Mr Lewis said. 'Reporting or journalism is not an excuse for criminal activities or a licence to break ordinary criminal laws. 'This is true in the UK as it is in the USA, and indeed in any civilised country in the world.' He added the defence claim that Assange might receive a jail term of 170 years was hyperbole.  But Mr Lewis said that under the UK Official Secrets Act any person who 'obtained or communicated' information which is useful to an enemy of the state commits an offence. '[The allegation says] that Chelsea Manning was a US citizen and serving solider who obtained and communicated to Mr Assange information which may have been of use to an enemy,' he said. In leaking documents that he knew would be of use to enemies of the US, Assange caused 'serious damage to national security', the court heard. The fact that he solicited the classified material by itself is enough to prove Assange committed 'aiding and abetting' under US law, said Mr Lewis. Edward Fitzerald QC, for Assange, told the court that journalistic work is protected as 'freedom of expression' under Article 10 of the Human Rights Act. But Mr Lewis said that the 1989 Official Secrets Act removed the 'public interest' defence when it came to revealing security matters. The court heard that Assange soliciting the classified intelligence from Manning would also be an offence under the act if it took place in the UK. 'It is in relation to a a person who is or has been a Crown servant or government contractor is guilty if without lawful authority makes a damaging disclosure of any information relating to defence,' said Mr Lewis. 'If a journalist or newspaper published secret information which is likely to cause harm within the category, it commits an offence.' A clean-shaven Assange entered the dock at Woolwich Crown Court's court number 2, which is sitting as Belmarsh magistrates' court in front of District Judge Vanessa Baraitser. Wearing a grey suit, and grey sweater over a white shirt, he spoke to confirm his name and date of birth.  Assange's supporters have held a 24/7 vigil outside the top security jail since last September - and up to 500 were outside court for the case, with their chanting clearly heard in the courtroom.  The 48-year-old is wanted in America on 18 charges over the publication of US cables a decade ago and if found guilty could face a 175-year prison sentence.   Fashion designer Vivienne Westwood was outside the court to give her support for Assange, wearing a headband reading 'angel'. She told PA: 'I am Vivienne. I'm the angel of democracy. Nobody knows more about democracies than Julian Assange. 'It is not a crime to publish American war crimes. It's in the public interest, it is democracy, that he is allowed to do this. 'I feel really worried and frightened actually, really frightened.' She added: 'I feel that I live in this surreal world that is so evil and orchestrated to collapse, and nobody really gets it. 'We've got no chance unless we break this wall of government corruption global, and I think Julian's a Trojan horse and if we can get him free, then we've got this rock of democracy.'   The Australian is accused of working with former US army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning to leak classified documents breaking the country's espionage and hacking laws. Mr Lewis said that the charges against Assange did not arising out of him 'embarrassing the US government' or 'free speech'. 'Julian Assange is no journalist. This is made plain by the totality of his behaviour set out in the indictment. 'No responsible actor, journalist or otherwise would purposefully publish the names of individuals he knew where confidential sources, exposing them to the gravest of danger.' As a result of exposing the names of sources and insurgents in Iraq, Assange exposed those people to risk of 'torture and murder', the court heard. Classified documents published by WikiLeaks were found in Osama Bin Laden's safe house during the US raid that executed the al-Qaida leader in 2011. A 2010 New York Times article titled 'Taliban study WikiLeaks to hunt informants' outlined how the organisation was explicitly using WikiLeaks to find sources. The court heard that some of the informants whose identity Assange exposed have since disappeared. In past interviews, Assange had called the risk he exposed the sources to 'regrettable' but said it was not his job to protect other people's sources. Sources revealed by WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange 'disappeared' after he put them at risk of torture and murder, the court has heard Opening his extradition hearing on Monday, James Lewis QC, said the 48-year-old is guilty of 'ordinary criminality' by stealing from and hacking into US government computers. He told District Judge Vanessa Baraitser that Assange, 48, is not charged with publishing 'embarrassing' information the US would rather was not disclosed. The lawyer said the dissemination of specific classified unredacted documents put dissidents in Afghanistan and Iraq at 'risk of serious harm, torture or even death'. He told Woolwich Crown Court, which is sitting as a magistrates' court, that the US identified hundreds of 'at-risk and potentially at-risk people' around the world and made efforts to warn them. Mr Lewis said: 'The US is aware of sources, whose redacted names and other identifying information was contained in classified documents published by WikiLeaks, who subsequently disappeared, although the US can't prove at this point that their disappearance was the result of being outed by WikiLeaks.' Mr Lewis said that Assange lawyers would no doubt treat this hearing as a trial and paint him in a 'glowing coat of liberty'. 'This is an extradition hearing, it is a preliminary hearing. 'The guilt or innocence will be determined in a US court,' said Mr X 'The sole questions are whether the statutory requirements of the Extradition Act of 2003 are satisfied.' Assange was charged following an FBI investigation on a 'conspiracy to commit computer hacking as well as unlawfully obtaining and disclosing classified information, endangering human sources'. The court heard that Assange had a 'thermonuclear option' he intended to use if it looked as though he was in danger of being arrested or WikiLeaks shut down. In 2010, he released more than 250,000 unredacted State Department diplomatic cables. The indictment said these 'included names of persons throughout the world who provided information to the US government in circumstances in which they could reasonably expect that their identities would be kept confidential. 'These sources included journalists, religious leaders, human rights advocates and political dissidents who were living in repressive regimes and reported to the United States the abuses of their own government and the political conditions within their own countries at great risk to their own safety.' Spies considered kidnapping or poisoning WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange while he was inside the Ecuadorian embassy in London, his extradition hearing has been told. His barrister Edward Fitzgerald QC said private security agents from a Spanish company, acting on behalf of the US, were involved in 'intrusive and sophisticated' surveillance. The covert monitoring allegedly began after UC Global's David Morales returned from a Las Vegas security trade fair in around July 2016 with a contract purportedly for a yacht belonging to Sheldon Adelson, a financial backer of Donald Trump. 'But in fact, Mr Morales had indeed made a side agreement to provide information gathered about Mr Assange to the dark side - in other words, US intelligence agencies,' said Mr Fitzgerald. Visitors, including lawyers for the 48-year-old, who is facing extradition to America, are said to have been targeted by live-stream audio and video devices placed inside the embassy and laser microphones from outside. A whistleblower, known as 'witness two' in the extradition proceedings, has already provided evidence in relation to a criminal case in Spain. Referring to witness two's evidence, Mr Fitzgerald said: 'There were conversations about whether there should be more extreme measures contemplated, such as kidnapping or poisoning Julian Assange in the embassy.' Reading from a witness statement, Mr Fitzgerald continued: 'David (Morales) said the Americans were desperate and had even suggested more extreme measures could be applied against the guest to put an end to the situation.' He said there was a suggestion the embassy door could be left open to make a kidnapping look like it could have been 'an accident', adding 'even the possibility of poisoning had been discussed'. The extradition hearing is being held at Woolwich Crown Court, which is sitting as a magistrates' court. Mr Lewis argued that Assange would have been aware that Manning was a member of the US armed forces, and therefore forbidden by army regulation from disclosing the information. Not only did Assange 'explicitly solicit restricted and confidential material' but he actively encourage Manning to hack a State Department server. Edward Fitzgerald, QC, representing Assange, has said he would rely on Manning's case to argue for Assange to stay in the UK. Manning is a former US soldier who was court-martialed after disclosing to WikiLeaks nearly 750,000 military and diplomatic documents. She was imprisoned from 2010 until 2017 when her sentence was commuted, but Manning is currently in jail for her continued refusal to testify before a grand jury against Assange. Assange's extradition hearing will sit for one week this month and three weeks from 18 May because the case is not completely ready. The decision, which is expected months later, is likely to be appealed against by the losing side, whatever the outcome.  Jennifer Robinson, Assange's lawyer, says his work has shed an unprecedented light on how the United States conducted its wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 'We are talking about collateral murder, evidence of war crimes,' she said. 'They are a remarkable resource for those of us seeking to hold governments to account for abuses.' In the lead-up to the hearing, Assange has received high-profile support including from Pink Floyd's Roger Waters, Greek economist Yanis Varoufakis and fashion designer Vivienne Westwood. He has also been supported at previous court timetabling hearings by Rapper M.I.A. and filmmaker John Pilger. A day before his appearance at the nearby Woolwich Crown Court, Assange's father John Shipton claimed his son had been 'harassed' by a prison cell search.  After a visit to the prison on Sunday, Mr Shipton criticised the 'plague of malice' which he said 'emanates from the Crown Prosecution Service' towards Assange. He urged that his son be allowed bail, telling reporters: 'For the life of me I can't understand why Julian Assange is in jail having committed no crime, with family here that he can come and live with.' He added: 'Bail ought to be given immediately if the extradition order isn't dropped'. Mr Varoufakis said Assange was in a 'very dark place' due to spending more than 20 hours a day in solitary confinement and called for the extradition to be stopped 'in the interests of 300 years of modernity, 300 years of trying to establish human rights and civil liberties in the west and around the world'. More than 40 international legal experts have written to Prime Minister Boris Johnson demanding the 'rule of law be upheld', claiming he has not had proper access to his legal team. The letter was handed in to 10 Downing Street on Saturday and also urged the British legal community to act 'urgently' to secure Assange's release. Assange has been held on remand in Belmarsh prison since last September after serving a 50-week jail sentence for breaching his bail conditions while he was in the Ecuadorian embassy in London. In 2012, Assange went into Ecuador's London embassy to avoid extradition to Sweden where he was accused of sex crimes, which he denied and which were later dropped, saying he feared he would ultimately be sent on to the United States. After seven years, he finally left and then jailed for 50 weeks for skipping bail. He has remained in prison ever since, after the United States launched its extradition request. If the judge decides Assange should be extradited, the decision needs to be rubber-stamped by Home Secretary Priti Patel.  He would also have the right to appeal to London's High Court and then possibly to the Supreme Court, Britain's top court. During his decade in the public eye, Julian Assange has shown himself to be an appalling egotist with an ugly sense of entitlement who falls out with almost everyone he meets.  At times he has reportedly displayed borderline sociopathic behaviour, made allegedly anti-Semitic statements and, it is claimed, has questionable personal habits. But is the WikiLeaks founder also a dangerous criminal who deserves to be banged up in an American prison for the rest of his natural life? Well, the answer to that is rather more complex.  Assange, a 48-year-old Australian national, is wanted by the US Department of Justice on 18 criminal charges: 17 counts of espionage and one of computer hacking. If found guilty of them all, he could be jailed for 175 years. In London at the weekend, in advance of Assange's extradition hearing, around 500 of his supporters gathered to protest. Others have argued he should be used as a 'pawn' in the diplomatic row over the death of teenager Harry Dunn in a road accident.  The US last month refused a UK extradition request for Anne Sacoolas, the CIA agent who accepted responsibility for the teenager's death but who then fled the country. That is an unlikely development, but the Assange extradition hearing, which begins today at Woolwich Crown Court is a serious undertaking which raises important questions about free speech and human rights. Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell, who visited Assange at HMP Belmarsh last weekend and thinks he's a heroic whistleblower, has declared it 'one of the most important and significant political trials of this generation, if not longer'. And there are many British pundits and free speech campaigners who, largely for solid reasons, believe his extradition could have a chilling effect on democracy, possibly leading to the criminalisation of newspapers that publish leaked government documents. So what is the truth? To explore it, first a brief history of this high-profile case. It dates back to 2010, when Assange became an overnight celebrity after his obscure website WikiLeaks released a video titled 'Collateral Murder'. It showed a US Apache helicopter in Baghdad repeatedly firing on a group of men, including a Reuters photographer and his driver, killing 12. Shortly afterwards, a US intelligence analyst called Chelsea Manning (then known as Bradley) with access to classified government databases contacted him. Assange then published almost 490,000 US intelligence files Manning had passed to him related to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and information on Guantanamo Bay detainees. He also made public a tranche of 250,000 US Department of State cables. Many helped expose illegal or questionable behaviour by the US, including its role in kidnapping, torture and illegal spying. Assange's supporters, many virulently opposed to the War on Terror, argue that disseminating the information was an act of public service, allowing citizens of the US and its allies to see what governments were doing in their name. In Left-wing circles, he duly became an instant hero. Riding a wave of publicity, Assange – who is believed to have four children by various women – embarked on an international speaking tour. Then, following a visit to Stockholm in August 2010, local police were contacted by two women who claimed Assange had recently slept with them. Both said their encounters had started on a consensual basis but later turned darker. One claimed he'd intentionally 'damaged' a condom before pinning her down during sex. The other accused him of having unprotected sex with her while she was asleep. With Assange out of the country, Sweden obtained an international arrest warrant. Assange claimed his accusers were part of an international conspiracy to silence him. With the help of wealthy benefactors including Jemima Goldsmith and filmmaker Ken Loach, he was bailed and instructed lawyers to fight the charge. It would prove a losing battle. So on the night of June 19, 2012, he claimed asylum at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London's Knightsbridge. He was in residence until last April when he was booted out and jailed for jumping bail. Fast forward to today: Swedish prosecutors no longer wish to pursue rape charges, but their US counterparts want Assange extradited for his role in leaking and publishing the classified material. Assange is, of course, horrified at the prospect. His legal team, headed by famous human rights lawyer Gareth Peirce, who represented the Guildford Four, will argue the move would, for one, be unlawful under the terms of Britain's 2007 extradition treaty with the US, which contains an exemption for 'political offences'. They also plan to use 'public denunciations' by senior members of the Trump administration to argue it's impossible for Assange to receive a fair trial. Perhaps awkwardly, on this front, the US is very pointedly choosing not to prosecute Assange for a second leak of hacked documents: a tranche of emails stolen (almost certainly by Russian agents) from Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign and put on WikiLeaks.  Donald Trump found this aspect of Assange's work very useful indeed, declaring 'I love WikiLeaks' at rallies. Some have seen this as evidence of Trump colluding with Moscow. Last week, Assange's lawyers even claimed former Republican congressman Dana Rohrabacher offered him clemency in return for publicly denying Russia was involved in the leak (though Mr Rohrabacher and Washington dispute this). Elsewhere in the extradition case is an intriguing sub-plot involving allegations a private security firm, Undercover Global SL, installed secret recording devices at the Ecuadorean Embassy and passed footage on to the CIA. Assange claims this not only breached his human rights, but means the US authorities possess recordings of conversations he had with his lawyers, again making it impossible for him to receive a fair trial.  The central thrust of his lawyers' extradition challenge, however, revolves around the argument that to criminalise Assange would make it unlawful for news outlets to publish stories based on leaked government documents. As The New York Times puts it: 'Though he is not a conventional journalist, much of what Mr Assange does at WikiLeaks is difficult to distinguish in a legally meaningful way from what traditional news organisations do...' This argument holds some water. But it is at odds with an important fact: Assange has also been charged with helping carry out the hacking that obtained the leaked material in the first place. The US government claims that in March 2010 he helped Chelsea Manning crack a password stored on its computers. As recent history has shown, journalists who carry out hacking tend to be vigorously pursued by the law. Then there's the issue of how Assange handled material passed to him. Unlike a responsible journalist, he did nothing to check, analyse, or redact the information he obtained before publication. The upshot? The US criminal indictment describes how Assange's un-redacted documents identified and endangered the lives of US intelligence sources in Afghanistan, China, Iraq, Iran, Syria and several other countries. If Assange seeks to liken himself to a journalist, he will doubtless be asked to justify this conduct. The other hole in his defence is the apparent conviction he will not receive a fair trial in the US. America has some of the strongest free speech laws in the world thanks to the First Amendment. This explains why Barack Obama decided against seeking Assange's extradition, fearing any defence based on the First Amendment would vastly complicate efforts to convict him.  There is a high-profile precedent: in 1971, the Washington Post newspaper published articles based on the leak of the so-called Pentagon Papers. Though much of the material in the Papers was classified and had been stolen, the Supreme Court ruled they were entitled to print it. Should the US extradition request be successful, no doubt after endless appeals, many observers think it highly likely Assange will end up being acquitted on 17 of the 18 charges he faces. That is an outcome that would strengthen rather than weaken Western democracy and empower journalists and others who seek to hold our ruling class to account. The computer hacking charge is, of course, another matter.   
