politics
{ By Martin Robinson, Chief Reporter For Mailonline   Published:  12:01, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041991/The-118m-child-sex-abuse-probe-finds-no-evidence-Westminster-paedophile-network.html }
Britain's £118million child abuse inquiry today concluded Tom Watson's 'sensational' claims about a VIP paedophile ring operating at the heart of Westminster were completely false. Mr Watson's backing for convicted child abuse fantasist Carl Beech, who was called 'Nick' by police, was 'a significant factor' in setting up the Independent Inquiry into Child Sex Abuse (IICSA). But today the inquiry's damning report said there was 'no evidence' to back the former Labour MP's 2012 claims about 'clear intelligence suggesting a powerful paedophile network linked to parliament and No 10'. The IICSA report said: 'Despite the inquiry engaging in an extensive evidence-gathering process, we have seen no material indicating the existence of a Westminster 'paedophile ring'. Similarly, no evidence of any attempts to cover up or suppress information about the existence of such a ring was found at MI5, SIS, GCHQ or in Metropolitan Police Special Branch records.'   Mr Watson quit as an MP before last year's general election and is rumoured to have been recommended for a peerage by Jeremy Corbyn despite his public backing for Beech, who was jailed for 18 years for falsely accusing a string of public figures including former Home Secretary Leon Brittan, who Watson called 'evil'.  But the inquiry has found that Westminster's institutions have 'turned a blind eye' to allegations of child sex abuse for decades with Margaret Thatcher accused of knowing Tory MP Peter Morrison had 'a penchant for small boys' but did nothing about it. She later made him her Private Secretary and gave him a knighthood. The political establishment in Westminster 'repeatedly failed to deal with allegations of child sexual abuse', covering up claims and protecting high-profile MPs including Sir Cyril Smith, the damning report says, with Liberal leader Lord Steel accused of an 'abdication of responsibility' for failing to act.  Tom Watson claimed in Parliament that he had seen 'clear intelligence suggesting a powerful paedophile network linked to Parliament and No 10.' Two years later he met with Beech, 51, who could therefore brag to police that Mr Watson was his confidante, protector and a key part of a 'little group supporting me' as he made baseless claims of sexual abuse and murder in Westminster. But last year these claims were destroyed after Beech was convicted of 12 counts of perverting the course of justice and one of fraud. Mr Watson said previously: 'I met the man I knew as 'Nick' once, on 8 July 2014, two years after I had raised my question in Parliament. During that meeting Nick said very little and did not name any of his alleged abusers. 'I reassured Nick that the police had made clear that all allegations of historic sex abuse would be taken seriously and treated sensitively.  'It was not my role to judge whether victims' stories were true. I encouraged every person that came to me to take their story to the police and that is what I did with Nick.' The 190-page bombshell report on the Westminster strand of the inquiry, published today, has revealed:  The inquiry, chaired by Alexis Jay, heard from a host of high profile figures including Prince Charles, two ex-prime ministers, six former government ministers, a former Director General of MI5, three archbishops, one cardinal and 31 chief constables. In addition, during the three weeks of public hearings about Westminster last year, the inquiry also heard from survivors, whistleblowers, cabinet ministers and MPs and police officers among others.  The inquiry, which is looking at 13 areas of public bodies where child abuse took place, will conclude in November 2020 with a final report expected next year. Today's scathing report on its Westminster investigation revealed a significant problem with 'deference towards people of public prominence,' from the Whips' offices to the police and prosecutors. David Steel was blasted today after complaining he had been made a 'political scalp' today as he announced he would quit politics over his failure to unmask brutal and sadistic paedophile MP Cyril Smith.  The ex-Liberal leader made the self-pitying remarks as he announced he would retire from the House of Lords after being castigated for his inaction in the 1970s and 1980s by the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse (IICSA). The sickening acts of obese sex attacker Smith against young boys in care were known about more than 40 years ago but no action was taken before his death in 2010. But Lord Steel admitted last year he failed to pass on the allegations against the extrovert Rochdale MP even though he believed them to be true, because it was 'past history'. The peer, party leader until 1988, later recommended Smith for a knighthood and the violent predator went on to represent the Lancashire town for the Liberal Democrats until 1992. Announcing he had quit the Liberal Democrats this afternoon he made the staggering claim that he had been made 'proxy' for Smith because he is dead and cannot be prosecuted. But a representative of some of Smith's victims blasted his attitude. Richard Scorer, a specialist abuse lawyer at Slater and Gordon, said: '(Lord) Steel's total inaction after being told by Smith himself that he had molested young boys is unforgivable, most of all for those victims whose abuse he could have stopped. 'To suggest Steel is a scapegoat, as some have done, is grasping at straws - a pathetic attempt to excuse a man who admitted he knowingly turned a blind eye to Smith's crimes.    'He is not being blamed for them but for his own failure to stop Smith when he had the chance.'  MPs including Sir Cyril Smith and Sir Peter Morrison, in the 1970s and 1980s, were known to be active in their sexual interest in children, but were protected from prosecution. Giving evidence, former Liberal Party leader Lord Steel said that because allegations against Smith had arisen before he joined the party, he saw 'no reason, or no locus to go back to [it]'. This failure to recognise the risks was an abdication of responsibility, and the fact the offences were non-recent was irrelevant, the report said. Richard Scorer, a specialist abuse lawyer at Slater and Gordon, representing eight of Sir Cyril Smith's victims, said: '(Lord) Steel's total inaction after being told by Smith himself that he had molested young boys is unforgivable, most of all for those victims whose abuse he could have stopped. 'To suggest Steel is a scapegoat, as some have done, is grasping at straws - a pathetic attempt to excuse a man who admitted he knowingly turned a blind eye to Smith's crimes. He is not being blamed for them but for his own failure to stop Smith when he had the chance. 'This must surely now be the catalyst for a mandatory reporting law, compelling those who suspect child abuse to report their concerns, and for an end to this culture of deference towards those in power which allowed Smith to evade justice for so long.'  The report found no evidence of a coordinated 'paedophile ring' in Westminster, following claims by fantasist Carl Beech of its existence, and also stated there was no proof such a network was covered up by security services or police. But it said institutions 'regularly put their own reputations or political interests before child protection'. Professor Alexis Jay, who chaired the inquiry, said: 'It is clear to see that Westminster institutions have repeatedly failed to deal with allegations of child sexual abuse, from turning a blind eye to actively shielding abusers. 'A consistent pattern emerged of failures to put the welfare of children above political status although we have found no evidence of an organised network of paedophiles within government. 'We hope this report and its recommendations will lead political institutions to prioritise the needs and safety of vulnerable children.' The report identified how former prime minister Margaret Thatcher and ex-Conservative party chairman Norman (now Lord) Tebbit were aware of rumours about MP Peter Morrison having 'a penchant for small boys' but did nothing about it. The report said the allegations 'should have rung alarm bells in government'. But, instead, 'considerations of political embarrassment and the risk to security were paramount, while the activities of an alleged child sexual abuser who held senior positions in government and the Conservative Party were deliberately overlooked, as was the course of public justice'. The Conservative MP for Chester, had also been caught by police molesting a 15-year-old boy on a train at Crewe. The report reveals that the Tory party made efforts to suppress these rumours rather than conduct a formal investigation. The Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse is a public inquiry set up by the government in 2015 because of concerns that organisations had failed and continue to fail to protect children from sexual abuse. It was set up after investigations in 2012 and 2013 into the Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal revealed widespread abuse had been covered up. In 2014 Labour MP Tom Watson told the Commons there was evidence of a paedophile ring in Westminster linked to No 10. Months later Theresa May, then Home Secretary, announced the inquiry would take place the following year.  Its scope included investigations into 13 areas of abuse: Indeed, the inquiry found there was a 'consistent culture for years' in the whips' offices to 'protect the image' of their party by 'playing down rumours and protecting politicians from gossip or scandal at all costs'. It meant victims' interests were often overlooked, with many organisations failing to pass on allegations to police. The report also found senior diplomat Sir Peter Hayman was the beneficiary of 'preferential, differential and unduly deferential treatment' over claims he sent obscene material in the post, following a meeting between his solicitor and the then-director of public prosecutions. There was also 'striking evidence' of how 'wealth and social status insulated perpetrators of child sexual abuse' from being brought to justice, as in the case of Tory MP Victor Montagu. The report stated: 'A consistent pattern that has emerged from the evidence we have heard is a failure by almost every institution to put the needs and safety of children who have survived sexual abuse first.' Montagu's son Robert, who he also sexually abused for over five years, said the decision not to prosecute was 'entirely wrong and very indicative of the attitude towards people in public positions'. The report concludes that these are examples of a political culture which 'values its reputation far higher than the fate of the children involved.' The report's findings were also damning of modern political parties. As recently as 2017, Green Party election candidate Aimee Challenor was able to appoint her father as election agent, even though he had been charged with sexually assaulting a child and was later convicted. The Inquiry also investigated the Paedophile Information Exchange (PIE), which campaigned in the 1970s to lower the age of consent, as well as public acceptance of paedophilia. Prime Margaret Thatcher and ex-Conservative party chairman Norman (now Lord) Tebbit were aware of rumours about MP Peter Morrison having 'a penchant for small boys' but did nothing about it. The report said the allegations 'should have rung alarm bells in government'. But, instead, 'considerations of political embarrassment and the risk to security were paramount, while the activities of an alleged child sexual abuser who held senior positions in government and the Conservative Party were deliberately overlooked, as was the course of public justice'. Morrison was later knighted.  A number of its members sexually abused children, including Sir Peter Hayman, a former High Commissioner to Canada. The report concludes that PIE was given 'foolish and misguided' support for several years by organisations who 'should have known better.' Those organisations included the National Council for Civil Liberties and the Albany Trust. The report made a number of suggestions including changes to the Honours system, re-examining the policy over posthumous forfeiture of honours - which would strip knighthoods from the likes of disgraced entertainer Jimmy Savile, and creating widespread and well-understood whistleblowing policies for all Westminster institutions. The Government has also been urged to review its child safeguarding policies, and for all legitimate political parties to have a 'comprehensive safeguarding policy' overseen by the watchdog. Much of the evidence for the inquiry stemmed from a public hearing in the Westminster investigation held from between March 4 and 29 last year. As of September 30 last year, the cost of the inquiry was £118.25m. The mass inquiry required two and a quarter million pages of evidence processed. It is expected to conclude with a final report next year.  2012: Carl Beech gives his first interview, to Wiltshire Police, in which he claims to have been abused by his step-father and Jimmy Savile. The enquiry was classified 'undetected' and taken no further. October 22, 2014: Carl Beech begins to make his accusations to the Met Police in the first of five interviews between October and April. Over more than 20 hours of recorded police interviews, he makes lurid allegations of child rape and murder against senior Establishment figures including Ted Heath and Lord Brammall. November 2014: Operation Midland launched with a dramatic appeal for witnesses in which Detective Superintendent Kenny McDonald describes Beech's allegations of years of abuse at the hands of VIPs in Westminster as 'credible and true'. March 2015: Twenty officers search the home of D-Day hero and former army chief Lord Bramall and his dying wife. The homes of Harvey Proctor, the former Tory MP, and of the late home secretary Leon Brittan are also searched. April 2015: D-Day veteran and former Army chief Lord Brammal has his home raided by a large team of police officers, and is interviewed. June 2015: Former Tory MP Harvey Proctor, whom Beech accused of child murder, has his home raided by and is interviewed under caution.  September 2015: Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe admits the Met was wrong to describe claims as 'credible and true'. October 2015: Kenny McDonald replaced as head of Operation Midland January 2016: Lord Bramall is told he will face no further action. February 2016: Hogan-Howe announces an independent inquiry of Midland by Sir Richard Henriques, a retired high court judge. March 2016: Harvey Proctor is told he will face no further action. Midland is wound up. June 16, 2016: Beech is charged with five counts of making indecent images and one charge of voyeurism, which involved rigging up a camera to film a boy using a toilet October 2016: Hogan-Howe apologises to Lord Bramall. November 2016: The Henriques review concludes Operation Midland was 'riddled with errors', that the judge who approved search warrants was wrongly told Beech had been consistent in his testimony, that police seemed to set aside the presumption of innocence and that the reputations of the accused were traduced. 2016: Northumbria Police conclude Beech's claims are 'totally unfounded, hopelessly compromised, and irredeemably contradicted by other testimony'. November 2, 2016: Police arrive to raid Beech's home in Gloucester. March 2017: Deputy Assistant Commissioner Steve Rodhouse and Detective Superintendent Kenny McDonald are cleared of misconduct by an IOPC investigation into Operation Midland following the Henriques review. September 2017: The Met pays Lord Bramall and Lady Brittan compensation understood to be around £100,000. January 23, 2018: Beech gets £60,000 as an early pension from the NHS February 6, 2018: He travels to Calais preparing to flee to Sweden, where he buys a cabin in the woods and lives under a series of assumed identities, travelling hundreds of miles from city to city to stay on the run May 2018: Harvey Proctor sues Scotland Yard and Beech for £1million. October 1, 2018: He was tracked down by Swedish and British police and arrested in advance of a 20-hour train journey to Gothenburg booked in the name of 'Samuel Karlsson'. 2018: A highly critical review of Operation Midland reports police 'acted like they were searching for bodies' during raids on homes. December 2018: restriction on reporting of Carl Beech's real identity lifted. January 2019: Beech pleads guilty to possessing child pornography, in a separate trial. May 2019: Beech goes on trial for perverting the course of justice and fraud July 2019: He is found guilty of perverting the course of justice and fraud. 
