politics
{ By Chris Dyer For Dailymail.com   Published:  10:25, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7994815/Cartoon-Bernie-Sanders-announcing-New-Hampshire-primary-win-mocked-looking-like-Chevy-Chase.html }
A cartoon announcing Bernie Sanders' win in the New Hampshire primary has drawn mockery on social media for looking more like Chevy Chase. A drawing posted by political website, Politico, when they called the win for Sanders looked more like the comedian than the Vermont senator, Twitter users said. It was said the illustration bore a resemblance to the former Saturday Night Live cast member when he co-starred in the NBC sitcom, Community. The cartoon sent Chevy Chase trending on Twitter as the result of the New Hampshire vote was announced. Chase suddenly being mentioned so many times on social media caused many to fear it could be due to some bad news. One social media user wrote: 'So I thought Chevy Chase was dead, because he was trending on Twitter. No again it's just people confused [at] a Bernie Sander's portrait for him.'  Sanders won New Hampshire's Democrat presidential primary election last night, narrowly edging moderate rival Pete Buttigieg and scoring the first clear victory in the Democratic Party's chaotic 2020 nomination fight.  Many on Twitter joked that Chase had won the Democratic New Hampshire primary and was the star of the night. One said: 'Congratulations to, uh, Chevy Chase?' Another wrote: 'Starring Chevy Chase as @BernieSanders.'  A Twitter user added: 'Chevy chase is trending (and under celebrities, not politics) not because he died, but because someone drew bad art of bernie sanders.'  During current SNL sketches Larry David of Curb Your Enthusiasm play Bernie Sanders.  Sanders had 25.6 per cent of votes when he declared victory and the race was called by the Associated Press and TV networks, putting him just 1.3 per cent ahead of Buttigieg in second place on 24.4 per cent.  Senator Amy Klobuchar finished a strong third, giving her campaign an unexpected boost, while Elizabeth Warren and Joe Biden posted disappointing fourth and fifth place finishes respectively and were on track to finish with zero delegates from the state. In his win, the 78-year-old self-described democratic socialist beat back a strong challenge from Mr Buttigieg, a 38-year-old former Midwestern mayor.  
