{ By Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:05, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8035973/Aussie-celebrities-including-Julia-Stone-Ryan-Fitzgerald-call-action-climate-change.html }
A host of Australian celebrities have called on Scott Morrison to take action on climate change, saying it's 'no longer OK to do the bare minimum'. Asking the prime minister if this is 'the sort of world' he wants for his daughters, the campaigners said the country had been hit by 'unprecedented' disasters. The video, released by Greenpeace and titled 'Dear Scotty', begins with singer Julia Stone and actor Simon Baker. Baker tells Mr Morrison that the bushfires, floods and droughts are being 'made worse by climate change'. It comes amid a fierce row from across the political spectrum about the cause of this season's devastating bushfires.  The video also features heartfelt messages from bushfire victims and claims to be directed to 'both sides of politics'. Speaking to the camera, Ms Stone says: 'Dear Scotty', before Baker continues by saying 'mate, sorry to do this to you.' They are then followed by a host of well-known faces, who appealed to the prime minister to do more to tackle climate change. The celebrities and ordinary Australians said the country has been hit by 'floods, drought and flash flooding', which they claim could be fixed by 'moving to renewable energy'.  'It's time to pull you up on your behaviour', the celebrities continued. 'It's affecting everyone around you,' actress Angourie Rice added. 'On both sides of politics. 'Think of this as an intervention. You're a family man. What sort of world do you want your daughters growing up in? 'You said it, this has been a black summer.' Radio host Ryan Fitzgerald then appears, saying: 'Australian communities are being devastated...' Residents then join in, saying: 'By unprecedented fires, droughts and flash flooding.' 'All made worse by climate change', the Mentalist star Baker continues. 'Burning coal and other fossil fuels causes climate change,' one woman continued. 'We need to reduce the risk of future disasters,' a man added, 'by moving to renewable energy. 'Australia is falling behind the world. Other countries are leading the charge, and we need to act now. 'It's no longer OK to do the bare minimum. You wouldn't want this for your family and you wouldn't expect that from us.  'This is less about blame, division, and fear, and more about change, unity and leadership. 'Dear Scotty,' a little girl says at the end. 'How will history remember you?' asked Baker. The video then ends with singer Ms Stone saying: 'Somebody who burnt with the world? 'Or helped to save it?'  At the height of the bushfire crisis in Janauary, Mr Morrison's approval rating plunged amid mounting criticism over his handling of blazes.  Approval for Mr Morrison tumbled from 45 to 37 per cent, while Mr Albanese's rating leapt from 40 to 46 per cent. Mr Morrison faced weeks of criticism - as the bushfires death toll rose to 33 - starting with his decision to take his family on a holiday to Hawaii. His eventual visits to fire-ravaged towns were then met with anger and frustration. Furious protesters across the globe took aim at Mr Morrison's handling of the disaster, which destroyed more than 2,000 homes. But many Australians were quick to question some of the assertions made in the Greenpeace video. 'If Australia ceased all emissions today, what difference will it make to the world climate?' one viewer asked. 'China is increasing emissions are they not? Why are you not protesting China?' Another added: 'What c**p. Read about arsonists. And then look up hundreds of years ago about fires and climate.' Greenpeace Australia Pacific Senior Campaigner Nathaniel Pelle said the country was being 'dragged down' by the fossil fuel industry. 'For too long, the Federal response to climate change has been dragged down by the dead hand of the fossil fuel lobby, which has far too much influence on Australian politics,' Mr Pelle said. 'People have lost their lives, families have lost their homes, and koalas have burnt alive all over Australia.  'In our cities, our kids have at times been forced to breathe the most polluted air in the world.  'Everyone is feeling the impacts of this coal-fueled bushfire crisis and we need Scott Morrison to act for their future and the future of all Australians.' The national death toll of Australia's 2019/2020 bushfire season was 33 as of Monday, February 3, with 25 confirmed deaths in New South Wales, three in South Australia and five in Victoria.  New South Wales:  Robert Lindsey, 77, and Gwen Hyde, 68, were found in their burned out Coongbar home near Casino on October 9th.  New South Wales: The body of 85-year-old George Nole was found in a burnt out car near his home in Wytaliba, near Glen Innes. Vivian Chaplain, a 69-year-old woman from Wytaliba, succumbed to her injuries in hospital after attempting in vain to save her home and animals from the blaze. The body of 63-year-old Julie Fletcher was pulled from a scorched building in Johns River, north of Taree.  Barry Parsons, 58, was found in a shed at Willawarrin, near Kempsey. Chris Savva, 64, died after his 4WD overturned near burnt-out South Arm bridge, near Nambucca Heads. A 59-year-old man was founded sheltered in a Yarrowitch water tank on November 7. He died of injuries on December 29.   Victoria:  David Moresi, 69, died after being involved in a traffic incident while working at the at the Gelantipy fire in East Gippsland on November 30.  New South Wales:    Firefighters Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, died on December 19 after a tree fell on their truck while they were travelling through Buxton, south of Sydney. Samuel McPaul, 28, was battling a blaze in Jingellic, in Green Valley, about 70km east of Albury on the border of NSW and Victoria, on December 30 when a 'fire tornado' caused his 10-tonne firetruck to roll.  South Australia: The body of 69-year-old Ron Selth was found in his Charleston home, which was destroyed by the Cudlee Creek blaze on December 21.  New South Wales:  Dairy farmer Patrick Salway, 29, and his father Robert, 63, died trying to save their property in Cobargo, near Bega, on December 31.  A 70-year-old man, named by local media as Laurie Andrew, was found dead outside a home at Yatte Yattah, west of Lake Conjola. The body of a 70-year-old man was found in a burnt vehicle on a road off the Princes Highway at Yatte Yattah on the morning of New Year's Day. The body of a 62-year-old man was found in a vehicle on Wandra Road at Sussex Inlet about 11.30am on New Year's Day. A body, believed to be a 56-year-old man, found outside a home at Coolagolite, east of Cobargo on New Year's Day. An off-duty RFS firefighter, believed to be 72-year-old Colin Burns, was found near a car in Belowra after the New Year's Eve fires swept through.  Victoria:  Beloved great-grandfather Mick Roberts, 67, from Buchan, in East Gippsland, was found dead at his home on the morning of New Year's Day.  Fred Becker, 75, was the second person to die in Victoria. He suffered a heart attack while trying to defend his Maramingo Creek home. New South Wales: David Harrison, a 47-year-old man from Canberra, suffered a heart attack defending his friend's home near Batlow on Saturday, January 4.  A 71-year-old man was found on January 6. Police have been told the man was last sighted on December 31, 2019 and was moving equipment on his property in Nerrigundah. An 84-year-old man who stayed to defend his home in Cobargo, NSW, dies in hospital three weeks after fire hit. His pet dog Bella, who stayed by his side as fires raged, was also killed in the disaster. Three American firefighters are killed when Coulson Aviation C-130 Hercules water bomber Zeus crashed while fighting fires near Cooma on Thursday January 23. They have been named as Capt. Ian H. McBeth, 44, First Officer Paul Clyde Hudson and Flight Engineer Rick A. DeMorgan Jr, 43. On January 24, Michael Clark, 59, was found in a Bodalla home destroyed by bushfires near the NSW South Coast town of Moruya.  Victoria: Forest Fire Management firefighter Mat Kavanagh, 43, was killed Friday January 3 when he was involved in a two-car crash on the Goulburn Valley Highway. Bill Slade, a 60-year-old father of two from Wonthaggi was fighting fires with Parks Victoria at Omeo when he died on January 11. He has been remembered as one of the longest serving, most experienced and fittest firefighters.   South Australia:  Well-known outback pilot Dick Lang, 78, and his 43-year-old son, Adelaide surgeon Clayton Lang, died in the Kangaroo Island bushfire after their car was trapped by flames.   
