politics
{ By Associated Press   Published:  12:04, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8034697/Pope-cautions-against-unfair-Middle-East-peace-plans.html }
ROME (AP) - Pope Francis has cautioned against "unfair" solutions aimed at ending the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. In a speech Sunday during a visit to the Italian southern port city of Bari to reflect on peace in countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea, Francis lamented the many areas of war and conflict, including in the Middle East and Northern Africa. Francis spoke of "the still unresolved conflict between Israelis and Palestinians, with the danger of not fair solutions, and, thus, presaging new crises." The pope didn't cite any specific proposals. A new U.S. peace plan would let Israel annex all of its settlements along with the strategic Jordan Valley. It would give the Palestinians limited autonomy in several chunks of territory with a capital on the outskirts of Jerusalem, but only if they meet stringent conditions. In the same speech, Francis took a swipe at populist politics. "It scares me when I hear some speeches by some leaders of the new forms of popularism,'' he said. He also lamented that waves of refugees fleeing conflicts, climate change consequences and other adversity are "depicted as an invasion." Pope Francis kisses a a baby as he greets faithful in St. Nicholas Basilica, in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. The Pope is in Bari to preside the closing of the "Mediterranean sea a border of peace" conference. Twenty bishops from the countries overlooking the Mediterranean are attend to talk about peace and dialogue. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) Among the prelates gathered for his speech in Bari's Pontifical Basilica of St. Nicholas were churchmen from the Balkans, Jerusalem and Algeria. Faithful hands reach for Pope Francis in St. Nicholas Basilica, in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) Pope Francis caresses a woman as he greets faithful at the St. Nicholas Basilica, in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. The Pope is in Bari to preside the closing of the "Mediterranean sea a border of peace" conference. Twenty bishops from the countries overlooking the Mediterranean are attend to talk about peace and dialogue. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) Pope Francis listens to a welcome speech inside the St. Nicholas Basilica on the occasion of the "Mediterranean sea a border of peace" conference in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) Pope Francis arrives at the St. Nicholas Basilica on the occasion of the "Mediterranean sea a border of peace" conference in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) Pope Francis delivers his speech inside the St. Nicholas Basilica on the occasion of the "Mediterranean sea a border of peace" conference in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) Faithful receive the holy communion into their hands during a Mass celebrated by Pope Francis on the occasion of the "Mediterranean sea a border of peace" conference in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) Pope Francis celebrates Mass after a meeting with bishops on the occasion of the "Mediterranean sea a border of peace" conference in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) Pope Francis greets faithful as leaves St. Nicholas Basilica after meeting with bishops on the occasion of the "Mediterranean sea a border of peace" conference in Bari, Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) 
