{ By Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com In Las Vegas, Nevada   Published:  03:24, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033823/Buttigieg-warns-Sanders-ideological-revolution-leaves-Americans.html }
Pete Buttigieg used his Saturday rally in Las Vegas to take several hits at Bernie Sanders, the Nevada caucus victor. He claimed that the 78-year-old Vermont senator is proposing an 'inflexible, ideological revolution' that would not include moderate Democrats and those who believe in capitalism Although he congratulated his competitor on the massive victory, Buttigieg also reminded a room full of his supporters of Sanders' more radical ideals, like a single-payer healthcare system. 'I congratulate Senator Sanders on a strong showing today, and we certainly celebrate many of the same ideals,' Buttigieig admitted, although he rarely likens himself to the Democratic socialist candidate. 'But before we rush to nominate Senator Sanders, in our one shot to take on this president, let us take a sober look at stake – for our party, for our values, and for those with the most to lose. There is so much on the line,' Buttigieg said. He also suggested that Sanders would not be able to defeat Trump in November as the most progressive candidate in the race. Buttigieg continued to bring out his more moderate side as he slammed the Democratic socialist candidate for believing 'capitalism is the root of all evil.' 'Senator Sanders believes in an inflexible, ideological revolution that leaves out most Democrats, not to mention most Americans,' Buttigieg said Saturday night as caucus results were still trickling in. He also reminded supporters of his victory against Sanders in the first-in-the-nation caucus in Iowa at the beginning of this month. 'Ours is the only campaign that has beat Senator Sanders anywhere in the cycle,' he added, a reference to winning more nominating delegates than Sanders. In Iowa, Buttigieg earned a marginal victory when he received more support from precincts and emerged as the victor with one more delegate than Sanders. As the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana held an intimate rally in Nevada, he was showing up fourth in the caucuses with less than 10 per cent as results continued to pour in. But later in the evening, Buttigieg moved up to third after 11 per cent reporting showed him at 13.6 per cent. The former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, however, was still hopeful for his campaign and previewed he was expecting a big win on Super Tuesday, where 14 states will participate in their primary contests. The event at Springs Preserve an 180-acre nature preservation area, a little more than 5 miles north of the Las Vegas Strip, had to be moved inside after a rare downpour nixed plans for an outdoor rally. The room held around 200 chairs, which were all filled, and a few dozens attendees were reduced to standing-room-area, even impeding into the press area and the hallway outside the rally room.  Buttigieg hit at Sanders ahead of Nevadians heading to caucus Saturday morning. He likened the senator to Trump, claiming he would bring about four more years of toxic politics' that were riddled in conspiracy theories. The claim came after reports indicated Russia was taking aim at Sanders' presidential campaign. 
