politics
{ By Claudia Poposki For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  02:30, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033173/Indigenous-NRL-star-Josh-Addo-Carr-channels-AFL-great-Nicky-Winmar-iconic-pose.html }
Indigenous NRL star Josh Addo-Carr adopted St Kilda great Nicky Winmar's famous jersey-lifting gesture in Saturday's NRL All Stars clash, but acknowledged it may have made a few Australians angry. The Melbourne Storm flyer Addo-Carr stole the show in the pre-match war cry against the Maori team on the Gold Coast with his stirring display of Indigenous pride.  Addo-Carr stepped ahead of his Indigenous teammates and lifted his jersey before proudly pointing to the colour of his chest. It was a nod to Winmar who became a powerful symbol for the fight against racism when he was photographed doing the same in 1993 as he reacted to relentless abuse from Collingwood fans in a game at the Magpies' old home of Victoria Park. Addo-Carr spoke about the gesture after the match on Saturday.   'I did a little tribute to Nicky Winmar, obviously there is an iconic photo of him,' Addo-Carr told reporters after the Indigenous' 30-16 All Stars loss to the Maori. 'I thought about that picture during the week. He changed it for black fellas so I thought I'd pay my respects. 'I do hope he (Winmar) sees it, I really do.' But Addo-Carr admitted not everyone would be happy with his actions. 'I thought it might make a few people angry .... maybe it would make people uncomfortable but I am proud of it,' he said. 'There's a great story behind it. I'm really proud that I did it.'  Addo-Carr said he lifted his jersey on Saturday night to help build new bridges. 'I just want to make my people proud. They are driving me to be the best I can,' he said. 'We just want to be included. We want to be one with all Australia. We just want to be happy.'  Some Australians have been left outraged by the gesture made by Addo-Carr - including One Nation's Mark Latham. 'A sure-fire way to lose fans: tell them the footy is about skin colour, not footy. Why is NRL allowing external politics into the game,' he tweeted. He said NSW Blues coach Brad Fittler said players were under 'external pressure' to bring racial politics into the game.  'Can't even compare the two. Winmar was a trailblazer. JAC is an attention seeker,' another person said. 'This game doesn't bring anyone together, it creates more segregation.'  Another said: 'This is nothing more than victimhood and race driven hatred.'  Others were impressed by Addo-Carr's touching tribute.  'This from Josh Addo-Carr. The spirit of Nicky Winmar lives. Iconic,' one person tweeted. One said: 'I realise this is a Nicky Winmar moment and I think it's amazing.'  '[It] made me so proud to stand by our Indigenous brothers,' the social media user continued. Winmar's original gesture resonated so deeply that he was immortalised in bronze with a statue of the incident at Perth's Optus Stadium last year.  
