christianity
{ Con  Coughlin 
    January 13 2011 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/split-will-make-southern-sudan-poorer-but-safer-26613527.html }
George Clooney, the Hollywood actor who spends increasing amounts of his spare time playing the role of a globe-trotting peace activist, has hardly been able to contain his excitement over this week's controversial referendum on splitting Sudan in two. "It is something to see people actually voting for their freedom," the 'Ocean's Eleven' star gushed as he mingled with the long queues of tribesfolk patiently waiting to cast their votes. "That's not something you see often in life." The 49-year-old was speaking as an estimated four million voters in southern Sudan, predominantly Christians, took part in a plebiscite that will decide whether the south is divided from the north to form a new nation. When the polling stations close on Saturday, it is widely predicted that the pro-independence campaign will get the 60pc of the vote needed to sanction the division of Africa's largest country -- which is equivalent in size to Germany, France, Italy, Poland, Spain, Greece and the UK combined. The referendum is being held as part of a peace deal agreed in 2005 between the government of President Omar al-Bashir and the leaders of southern Sudan's rebel movement, after more than 20 years of bitter civil war, which claimed an estimated two million lives. In 1983, a widespread revolt had erupted in the south over claims that Christians there routinely suffered at the hands of the country's Muslim majority, which controls the government in Khartoum. Clooney, and the other celebrity hangers-on that have descended this week on Juba, the fly-blown capital of the south, believe that, by declaring independence from Khartoum, the minority Christians can make a better life for themselves. But the reality of secession is likely to be very different. Southern Sudan is one of the poorest and most underdeveloped regions on the planet, where the absence of basic provisions, such as health and education, means that a typical 15-year-old girl has a higher chance of dying in childbirth than of finishing school. The south occupies an area the size of France, but has just 38 miles of paved roads. By breaking ties with the north, it risks making its economic plight even more perilous. The world's 193rd state -- suggested names include New Sudan, Equatoria and the Nile Republic -- would almost certainly be the most impoverished. If, as many diplomats are warning, secession will make life worse for the majority of people in southern Sudan, why are they so keen on separation? The answer lies in the uncompromising approach the Arabised government in Khartoum has adopted towards non-Muslims. Since independence in 1956, the southerners have invariably been treated as serfs by their Muslim overlords, who often sought to starve them into submission. And, worryingly, the seemingly irreparable rift between Sudan's Christian and Muslim communities is being replicated in many parts of the Arab world, where the growing intolerance of Islamist hardliners has led to an alarming escalation in violence against Christian communities. In Iraq, a stream of al-Qa'ida attacks against Christians has seen a community that numbered around 1.5 million people at the time of Saddam Hussein's overthrow in 2003 reduced to 400,000. This exodus has increased considerably since the appalling attack on the Church of our Salvation in Baghdad at the end of last year, which killed 58 worshippers. The bombing over the new year of a church in the port of Alexandria has had a similarly devastating impact on Egypt's eight million Copts, who comprise 10pc of the country's population. Al-Qa'ida terrorists in Iraq have been blamed for the attack, which killed 21. Much of the blame for the deterioration in relations between the faiths lies with the growing legions of Islamist militants who seek to wage jihad against the West. But the origins of Islamic intolerance for other faiths, particularly Judaism and Christianity, can be traced back to the Prophet himself: on his deathbed, he instructed followers that only one faith -- Islam -- could be allowed in Arabia. Christianity remains banned in Saudi Arabia, which claims to be a close ally of the West, and Christians are not allowed to visit the holy cities of Mecca and Medina. Muslims of a more moderate persuasion argue that Islam is a tolerant faith. There was a graphic illustration of the potential for better co-operation this week when a group of Egyptian Muslims formed a 'human shield' to protect Coptic Christians as they celebrated their version of Christmas. But, increasingly, such acts of generosity are the exception. For many Christians, the ability to enjoy a peaceful co-existence with their Muslim neighbours is but a distant memory. (© The Daily Telegraph) Irish Independent 
