christianity
{  
    October 05 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/having-faith-when-on-the-threshold-of-death-27055056.html }
It has been revealed that the last words whispered in Polish by Pope John Paul II as he lay on his deathbed in the Vatican were: “Let me go to the house of the Father.” One can well understand his prayers for a merciful release into the hands of God. Some people had surmised that he might have repeated the words of Jesus on the Cross taken from Psalm 30: “Father, into your hands I commend my spirit.” Others thought that it might have been a prayer to Mary whom he always saw as Mother. On the threshold of death the group around him would have been praying the Commendation of the Dying taken from the ritual of the pastoral care of the sick and dying. These are prayers expressing trust in God as reflected in the sayings of Jesus. Those prayers have extraordinary power to encourage and comfort a Christian at this definitive moment when one is leaving life. Of course, those Gospel proclamations will also comfort and console the grieving family and friends. Whatever impression the Gospel may create in hearts and minds amid the distractions of life it certainly finds deep meaning for Christians as approaching death casts a shorter and shorter shadow. The ritual of Commendation of the Dying allows the Gospel to stand free of comment. “Come, blessed of my Father, says the Lord Jesus, and take possession of the Kingdom prepared for you.” “The Lord Jesus says, today you will be with me in Paradise. “In my Father’s home there are many dwelling places, says the Lord Jesus. “The Lord Jesus says, I go to prepare a place for you, and I will come again to take you to myself. “I desire that where I am, they also may be with me, says the Lord Jesus. “Everyone who believes in the Son has eternal life. This litany of Gospel texts culminates in the last words of Jesus on the Cross: “Father into your hands I commend my spirit.” That reflects the words of Psalm 30. The prayers for the dying contain other references to the psalter, which would itself have been the prayer book of Jesus. “Though I walk in the shadow of death I will fear no evil” — “The Lord is my light and my salvation” — “I believe that I shall see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living”. One pictures the dying Pope listening to those prayers, so familiar to him during life but now loaded with meaning as never before. It is said that of all the physical senses hearing is the last to close down.  After the readings from scripture, as death is imminent, comes the prayer of final commendation, sending of the Christian soul. It is certainly a very solemn prayer, spoken in the name of the Church. “Go forth Christian soul In the name of God, the Almighty Father Who created you, In the name of Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, Who suffered for you In the name of the Holy Spirit, Who was poured out upon you, Go forth, faithful Christian. May you live in peace this day, May your home be with God in Zion, With Mary, the virgin Mother of God, With Joseph, and all the angels and saints.” Actually there are few, if any, mentions of Joseph during the liturgy for the dying. He is celebrated in tradition as the patron of a happy death, dying in the arms of Jesus and Mary. One welcomes the invocation of his name at this solemn moment. When the death of Pope John Paul II was confirmed the group gathered around him, quite spontaneously, proclaimed that glorious hymn 
Te Deum Laudamus. It may seem an unusual way of marking a death! It was proclaiming praise to the Lord for his granting to the Church a successor to Peter of the quality of Karol Wojtyla, Pope John Paul II. The public circumstances which focussed attention on the Pope’s death should have confronted each of us with the certainty of the more private experience which will come our way sooner or later. It is the one experience which we may delay but which we may not If we walked through life along the threatening shadow cast by eventual death most of us would end up in morbid depression. It was said that the Carthusians of old, as one of their monastic exercises, would each day take a shovel of earth from their graves. They certainly were men of faith saying Amen in that gesture to the words of St Paul: “Life for me is Christ. I want to go and be with Christ, which would be my choice.” (Philippians 1:20-24). The gesture was also a reminder that one day they would be called to account for what they had done or omitted to do. For them there would be the existential ethic, the challenge of Jesus to those who had received special graces: “To whom much is given, from him much is expected.” (Luke 12:48). They could not hide behind the lowest common denominator. We pass without much thought the reminders of Christian death in the liturgy of the Eucharist which proclaims our faith and trust in Jesus as Saviour. We may not hear as the priest says that “we are ready to meet him when he comes again”. We pray at Mass that the Lord may “protect us from all anxiety as we wait in joyful hope for the coming of our Saviour Jesus Christ”. The traditional night offering focussed mind and heart on the final reality of death.  “Jesus, Mary and Joseph, I give you my heart and my soul. Jesus, Mary and Joseph assist me in my last agony. Jesus, Mary and Joseph, may I breathe forth my soul in peace with you. Into your hand, O Lord, I commend my spirit. Lord Jesus receive my soul”. Those last sentences have special significance for Christians. They were the last words spoken by Jesus as he died on the cross and by St Stephen as he suffered martyrdom for witnessing to Christ. Of all the liturgical texts published after the Second Vatican Council those on death and burial are outstanding in their directness and simplicity. One might even say impressive in their warmth, except that this might strike a false note of sentimentality. All through the prayers shines the hope of a life beyond death with trust in Jesus the Saviour. Light and peace are promised when “every tear will be wiped away and on that day we shall see you our God as you are”. Of all the sections in the Order of Christian Funerals that which we priests find most moving is the section on the burial of children. Naturally the Gospel readings in which Jesus welcomes and blesses the little children are very much to the fore. “Allow the little children to come to me, do not hinder them, for to such belongs the Kingdom of heaven... I tell you their angels always behold the face of my Father who is in heaven” (Matthew 18:10,14). That provides the inspiration for the prayers at the burial. Perhaps we should make these prayers better known in our parish newsletters. I will just give one example as typical. “Let us commend this child to the Lord’s merciful keeping; and let us pray with all our hearts for (names of parents). Even as they
grieve at the loss of their little one they entrust him/her to the loving embrace of God. Amen”. You will notice here the absence of that false note of sentiment. Sentiment plays on emotion for the time being but is hollow and short-lived. Thankfully the liturgy avoids it. It is a calming faith-affirming influence. God alone knows how in the absence of its power to console grieving parents can lay the body of their child in the grave. We congratulate ICEL, the commission which provided the English text for the liturgy, on their superb achievement. The prayer for burial just quoted is that recommended in the case of an unbaptised child. It may also be used in the case of a stillborn infant. Christian faith rests the salvation of a child dying before Baptism on the “great mercy of God who desires that all should be saved and on the tenderness of Jesus towards children” (Catechism 1261). Thank God that our concern for a strong emphasis on the necessity of baptism no longer decrees that the body of an unbaptised child should be interred in unconsecrated ground. Every parish had one cilleen or more where such burials took place. What grief that added for Christian parents to the loss of their child! ISIDA, the Irish Sudden Infant Death Association, has now available some very special liturgies for these situations. As culture becomes more secularised in its thinking concentration on living leads to the distancing of death. This is a marked feature of our world. Death is all about us but we are not allowed to contemplate it personally. In days past death was a constant theme in literature. Odes and elegies focussed attention on it. Those were days when Christian faith provided a philosophy of life and death. Here is the opening of an anonymous poem titled 
Dominus Illuminatio Mea, the Lord is my Light.  “In the hour of death, after this life’s whim, When the heart beats low, and the eyes grow dim, And pain has exhausted every limb — The lover of the Lord shall trust in him.’ 
