christianity
{  
    February 16 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/brave-christian-12-fought-cancer-for-over-eight-years-27474540.html }
Many people in New Ross were saddened by the recent death of Christian Detra-Kelly (12). Christian, of 57 Grange Road, passed away on Saturday, February 4. Known as 'Bubba' to his family and friends, Christian was a young boy who captured the hearts of all those he came into contact with. Though he was only given weeks to live when diagnosed with cancer at age of four, he bravely beat all the odds and fought on for another eight and a half years. Originally from Illinois in the United States, Christian and his family moved to New Ross almost four years ago. He was very happy in New Ross, where he made many friends, and also in Waterford, where he attended St. Joseph's School on Parnell Street. Christian possessed a remarkable spirit and no matter what he was burdened with himself he always came out with a smile. Blessed with the ability to bring joy to other people's lives, even in the midst of his own troubles Christian would still make other people laugh, while during his stays in hospital he was always more concerned with the welfare of the other children. A very warm and loving person, Christian loved to stop and chat to people and his parents fondly recall how 'he had a way with the women!' One of his major interests were films, which he would happily watch for hours. His favourite was Jurassic Park, though he could quote countless films and would often incorporate scenes from the films into his life, highlighting his 'unbelievable imagination'. This was also reflected by the hours of fun he had with his play dough creations, while Christian also loved music. Johnny Cash was his all-time favourite singer and 'Ring of Fire' his favourite song. Christian's Requiem Mass took place in the Parish Church, New Ross on Wednesday morning last. He is predeceased by his grandmother Babs, who he is now with in heaven. He is sadly missed by his loving parents Patricia and Shannon, his sisters Kathleen and Mairéad, his brother Seánan, his grandmother Michele Kelly, his relatives and friends. May he rest in peace. 
