christianity
{  
    November 25 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/sexual-abuse-the-final-betrayal-26252028.html }
Canadian Christian Brothers have been accused of minimising payments to victims, says Stephen Dodd. IN WHAT promises to be a rerun of the controversy over States of Fear, RTE producer Mary Raftery has again alarmed senior Christian Brothers. Even before her new programme is screened, the order is accusing her of unfair reporting of its reactions to sexual and physical abuses within its world network of schools. The documentary, the order believes, may repeat serious allegations made in her book Suffer the Little Children, which, claimed Christian Brothers in Canada, acted to minimise possible payments to abuse survivors. "The allegation is untrue and has no basis in fact," Barry Lynch, Province leader of the Christian Brothers in Canada, told the Irish Catholic newspaper. Brother Lynch claims the courts in Canada dismissed a suggestion that when the Christian Brothers in Canada went into liquidation in 1996, under pressure from mounting compensation claims, the order concealed valuable assets. "This allegation, which was made in the Court of Appeal of British Columbia, Canada, by the legal counsel for the liquidator of the Christian Brother Incorporated in Canada, was dismissed by that court 'without reason,"' Brother Lynch told the Irish Catholic. Though RTE has declined to provide detailed information about the documentary, and Mary Raftery would not comment, the Sunday Independent has seen copies of key documents relating to the compensation row, believed to be a major strand of the programmes. Much of the files' content relates to a Canadian legal battle about the effective ownership of two Catholic schools. Within the documents are passages that provide remarkable insight into debate among senior Christian Brothers over strategies to manage massive compensation claims. In a new introduction to her book, Mary Raftery suggests a link between the order's Canadian experience and current abuse inquiries concerning Artane and other Irish schools. Her suggestion that Canada "may give some inkling of what lies ahead" here has unsettled Irish Christian Brothers. "The Irish Christian Brothers do not see the relevance to the Irish context of a programme dealing with issues pertaining to Australia and Canada," said a Christian Brothers spokesman here. "The planned programme appears to be attempting to give these issues a relevance and a currency which they do not have." The order's fears may also be partially based on an RTE publicity release, which mentions abuse cases in Australia and Canada and claims the programme, to be shown in two Prime Time slots, "reveals the Brothers' legal and financial strategies for avoiding full liability for these crimes." Despite the reaction, however, documents do reveal an important international aspect to the Canadian controversy. Senior Canadian Christian Brothers are shown to have been in contact with the order's leadership in Rome over the abuse and compensation issues. In one letter, Brother Lynch contacts the order's Vatican head, Brother Edmund Garvey, to question the morality of a strategy to tackle spiralling compensation claims by winding up the Christian Brothers in Canada. He finishes the letter by thanking the Vatican chief for "your concern and very significant assistance in the process of decision-making thus far." Just two months before the body applied to wind up, Brother Lynch wrote of a "significant concern that has developed in my thinking regarding the ultimate wisdom and the moral rightness of the proposed strategy ... " His letter provides an astonishing glimpse of internal discussion in the order, touching on an issue rarely voiced publicly the influence of a religious order's lifestyle upon child sexual abuse. A 1996 Congregation meeting, he said, had "challenged our newly elected leadership to initiate a study of the systemic causes of this aberrant behaviour that may lurk within our very life style as Brothers." In one meeting before the decision to wind up the Christian Brothers in Canada, Brother Lynch wrote, the issue of paying compensation to victims was not given sufficient priority. "At our Congregational Chapter ... we did not discuss at any length the serious consequences of pursuing a just compensation for the survivors of Christian Brothers' sexual abuse," he wrote. He said the "systemic" nature of abuse within the order's schools led to questions of whether the leadership should assume more responsibility for the crimes of its individual members. "If this is so," he wrote, "then we in leadership cannot respond to the issue of financial compensation at the level of fulfilling our legal responsibilities. We cannot pursue this issue of justice with an attitude which effectively asks, 'How can we get beyond financial compensation with the least amount of damage to the community and mission?' This is not to suggest that the overriding attitude of our leadership is the above but rather it is to suggest that we must be open to an ever-deepening commitment to responding to these survivors with justice." According to the official liquidator, who is attempting to seize what he considers are the main assets of the Canadian Christian Brothers, justice is still some way from being done. At issue is the question of who owns two valuable Catholic schools, considered by the liquidator to be the possession of the Christian Brothers and therefore liable to seizure and sale. Without the schools, the order's assets have been valued at $4.2m (Canadian dollars). If the order is found to own Vancouver College and St Thomas More High School, however, the pool of funds available to settle compensation claims would rise to more than $40m. In the new introduction to Suffer the Little Children, Mary Raftery repeats allegations made in Canada, and already published in a Canadian newspaper, that the order "seriously misled a Canadian court in an attempt to protect millions of dollars worth of their assets from creditors, according to court documents filed in Ontario." Ms Raftery says the order swore an affidavit that its assets were $4.2m. Yet, she comments, quoting court documents: "It has now emerged that the Christian Brothers in Canada had internally calculated that they had in fact had, 'in conservative terms, well over $100m in assets."' Her claim appears to rise from the internal report of a financial task force set up by the Canadian Christian Brothers in 1991. The report warns that "it does not strain credulity to project for the Province compensation costs ranging in the area of $1m to $2m." By 1996, though, the situation was spiralling. The forecast had risen to around $20m, the Brothers' share of what was then thought to be a total $35m compensation payout. It is in this document that the task force, which included lay members as well as brothers, summarised that the Canadian Christian Brothers including its West Indian interests "is an organisation which has at its disposal, in conservative terms, well over $100m in assets." No further funds, however, have ever been discovered, and it is now considered the sum may have been an estimate including optimistic valuations of the schools. Other documents show that before the winding-up, the Canadian Christian Brothers did display considerable interest in the two schools they later claimed they did not effectively own. A letter sent in 1996, five weeks before winding-up was begun, from Brother John T Holden, the Deputy Province Leader, to an Irish firm of financial trustees, refers to, "a first attempt by Barry and I at listing the tasks to be accomplished in preparation for wind-up and we have already acted upon a few of the more immediate ones." That list, a copy of which has been seen by this newspaper, includes repeated references to the two disputed schools which the order was about to deny it owned. Correct the paper work concerning the shares of Vancouver College, one reference reads. Other items refer to engaging lawyers on "matters related to St Thomas More and Vancouver College," and forwarding financial statements of the two schools. To the liquidation team, one of the most intriguing references to the schools may have come from an earlier document, from Brother Barry Lynch. In his letter to Rome, he wrote: "If the Province and the Congregation look at the challenge in Canada as a Gospel call to do justice, then the Province and the Congregation must reflect again on the proposal of winding-up and look to other ways of responding to the financial demands of compensation. For example, our decision to keep Vancouver College out of the compensation picture needs to be reviewed." The Canadian legal battles are yet to be resolved. In September, the British Columbia Court of Appeal ruled that the Christian Brothers in Canada was the effective trustee which controlled the assets of both disputed schools. "The ruling paves the way for the long-established schools to be sold by liquidators," reported the Canadian Globe and Mail. But the fight will continue, and it seems certain it will be bitter. John Nixon, board chairman of Vancouver College, has vowed to take the case to the Supreme Court in an effort to stop the schools being sold. He argues that the Christian Brothers had been initially confused about true ownership, and says the order was acting as a servant, not owner of the schools. Betrayal the Christian Brothers and Child Sex Abuse Across Three Continents will be shown on RTE 1 at 9.35pm on November 28 and 29. 
