christianity
{  
    July 13 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/the-death-penalty-and-christianity-26242399.html }
Sir  At present, I am in communication by letter with a  young man, 22, named Toronto Patterson who is due to be executed in Death Row, Texas on August 28 for a crime he  supposedly committed at the age of 17 and a half (while still a minor). There are serious doubts as to wheth Sir At present, I am in communication by letter with a young man, 22, named Toronto Patterson who is due to be executed in Death Row, Texas on August 28 for a crime he supposedly committed at the age of 17 and a half (while still a minor). There are serious doubts as to whether he even committed the crime. And so it was with horror and shock I read your letter from WGA Scott trying to justify the death penalty under certain circumstances. Does he not accept the fact that God is the author or human life and only God can grant or take away that life? - Patrick Mulcahy, PP, Offaly. Sir Reading WGA Scott's attempt to use Christian dogma to justify capital punishment sent a chill down my spine. It is a telling example of the necessity for the separation of Church and State. To base a society and its laws on what a man said and did 2,000 years ago is ludicrous and dangerous. The Gospels can be, and have been, used to justify some of the most heinous acts attributed to humanity. Slavery, the subjugation of women, anti-Semitism and the crusades can all find authority in the teachings of Christ. Philosophy, however, is not necessary in any assessment of capital punishment. One merely has to examine the fallibility of any justice system in any jurisdiction. Mistakes are made. A mistake leading to death is irretrievable. - Paul Bowler, Dublin 6. Sir Having regard to WGA Scott's confused and confusing view of Christianity and capital punishment in last week's Sunday Independent, I am forced to the conclusion that having abolished the one, we should serve the other likewise. - Dermot O'Shea, Dublin 16. Sir I feel strongly compelled to reply to WGA Scott's letter on Christianity and the death penalty (7-7-02). Mr Scott's argument is ridiculously selective. His quotations from the Gospels are at odds with the vast majority of Jesus's teachings of forgiveness for everybody and that people should treat others as they themselves would like to be treated. The former utterances may be due, dare I say it, to Jesus's inherent human weakness. I find it hard to believe that a man who mixed with prostitutes, lepers and tax-collectors (people ostra cised from Jewish society) would want us to literally interpret his advice to cast child abusers into the sea, or to run around executing people because Caesar did so. Furthermore, the assertion that Christ's willing death on the cross gives capital punishment a stamp of approval is illogical. A person who sweated blood before being executed and begged to be spared is hardly likely to agree with the practice. As for allowing the thieves to die with him, I would assume that displaying Messianic powers to save them, would have rendered pointless his own meek surrender, which is, after all, a central tenet of Mr Scott's faith. Lastly, the statement that Christianity's supposed dependence on capital punishment recommends it for widespread use is equally irrational. By this mode of thinking, we could say that the religion is dependant on the Virgin Birth, seeing as Jesus would not have existed without it. However, we would most likely see a drastic drop in the birth rate if Christians relied on divine intervention to start a family! I trust Mr Scott will be satisfied with this reader's thoughts. - Patrick Conway, Wicklow. Sir I wish to reply to a letter ("A Christian in favour of death penalty") in which the writer claimed to have difficulty understanding how Sr Helen Prejene can "claim to be a practicing Christian and yet be so violently opposed to capital punishment". To answer the writer's question, I believe his view of the relationship between Christianity and capital punishment is wrong, and I don't know how one can't see that the killing of any human being is morally wrong. In my opinion, it is just 'authorised murder', and anyone who fights to stop it Christian or otherwise should be praised, not criticised. - Niall Carroll, Galway. Sir WGA Scott has hit the nail, so as to speak, about the pros of capital punishment. I come to it from another angle; I would allow it for certain crimes but with the safeguard of a certain time to elapse before the execution takes place. So, if in this time new evidence comes to light, an innocent person will not die. - Name and address with editor 
