christianity
{ David Blair in Islamabad 
    September 20 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/one-nation-two-faiths-that-are-a-world-apart-26074772.html }
WHENEVER the call to prayer echoes over Islamabad  from the mighty Shah Faisal mosque, the sound of Islamic  devotion passes over the golden cross and red-bricked tower of St Thomas's Church. Tucked down a side street, behind a small shopping centre, the modest building is a visible reminder that not all Pakistanis share the faith of the vocal lobby backing Afghanistan's Taliban regime, nor their instinctive suspicion of America. An imminent assault by the Western powers on a Muslim "brother nation" provides a classic recipe for heightened religious tension, and Pakistan's Christian minority - about 1.5 per cent of the population - is increasingly nervous. At the best of times, the draconian blasphemy laws allow Islamic extremists to victimise Christians by accusing them of maligning the Prophet Muhammad, for which the penalty is death. One Christian is awaiting execution at present. As another crisis looms, the congregation of St Thomas's, part of the Church of Pakistan and linked to the Anglican diocese of Manchester, is preparing for more hatred. "The Islamic conservatives think that, as Christians, we side with America," said the Rev John Irshad, the assistant vicar of St Thomas's. But they forget that first of all we are Pakistanis and then we are Christians. I was born here. By birth I have the right to be Pakistani." Mr Irshad passionately rejects the notion that Pakistani patriotism equates with adherence to Islam. Yet many of his Muslim compatriots would find his views about an American strike on Afghanistan abhorrent. "It would be right for them to attack Afghanistan, as long as they don't kill innocents," he said. "President Bush is a Christian. He is a very humble man and he loves the Lord. I don't think he will make the mistake of killing innocents." For an Islamic fundamentalist, that view would confirm the belief that Pakistani Christians are in league with an American plot to subjugate the Islamic world. If war is waged against Afghanistan, St Thomas's could be as much at risk from reprisal attacks as the American embassy or the British high commission. Nabil Yousaf, a member of the congregation, said: "If the Americans attack, there will be terrorism against Christians here. I'm sure of that. Our government has always tried to protect us. But there are many fundamentalists in Pakistan and they have decided to do harm to Christians." Even the most innocent activity at St Thomas's is viewed with deep suspicion. A casual visit by a Muslim may lead to the congregation being accused of seeking converts. Muslims shunned Mrs Fazal's literacy classes until they received proof that the sessions were not a cover for religious instruction. Islamic parties have called for a series of demonstrations Friday and the 700-strong congregation of St Thomas's has been told to stay indoors. The dozen Christian schools in Islamabad and the neighbouring city of Rawalpindi will be closed, in anticipation of street protests. But there are no special security measures at St Thomas's and the church is protected by nothing more than a low wall and an iron gate. As the church is in the heart of Islamabad, Mr Irshad said he could expect protection from the police. Churches in remote areas may not be so fortunate. Barely two miles away, outside the pillars of Shah Faisal mosque, which can accommodate 100,000 worshippers and claims to be the largest in Asia, the sentiment could not have been more different. Five students from the International Islamic University of Islamabad were adamant that they would join a jihad if America attacked Afghanistan. None had any doubts about the innocence of the man they called "Osama". On the contrary, all were convinced that Mr Bush organised the atrocity in New York to provide a pretext for a war against Islam. Ejaz Hussain said: "Any country that attacks our brothers in Afghanistan makes himself a target for jihad. Then America will be destroyed because all the Muslim countries will continue together." Mr Hussain's colleagues nodded vigorously. Jehan Zeb, who is studying economics, added: "When America attacks, I will put down my books and go to fight in Afghanistan." Nothing could have contrasted more sharply than the students' zeal and the subdued nervousness of the Christians. They are all Pakistanis, yet they barely recognise each other's worlds. Daily Telegraph, London. 
