christianity
{  
    October 14 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/support-a-christian-eu-25926336.html }
Sir - Following last week's meeting in Brussels of an inter-Parliamentary group, the Irish public now has the opportunity to influence Europe's decision-makers. It was decided to gather a petition of one million signatures supporting inclusion of a reference to God and the European Christian heritage in the proposed EU constitutional treaty and to also gather a petition of national parliamentary representatives. European and national parliamentarians met and debated the inclusion of a reference to God and the European Christian heritage in the proposed EU constitutional treaty. As Europe attempts to define who we are, it cannot do so by denying a major component of our European identity. A Christian Europe is not a Europe exclusively for Christians, it is a Europe that acknowledges its heritage and its identity; a Europe that is not afraid to debate and engage Christian values. It was disappointing that there was little or no debate of this topic in EU institutions or member states and that the Convention on Europe failed to refer to the historical fact of the Christian heritage of European integration. I welcome and thank accession states for clearly stating their concerns regarding a Europe without God and without reference to its Christian roots and values. The campaign for one million signatures supporting this initiative begins this week - Saturday, October 18. It is time for people to make their voices heard. Irish people will be able to sign up on the internet and local regional petitions will facilitate those who do not have access to the internet. I hope the Taoiseach, Mr Bertie Ahern TD; Mr John Bruton TD, who was a member of the presidium advising the convention on Europe; and all other Irish party leaders will sign up to and actively support this initiative. A secure, caring, democratic European society must be based on the firm foundation of sound ethical principles and values. A reference to God and our Christian heritage is not a threat to Europe. However, I believe the exclusion of such a reference is a threat to the European Union. Dana Rosemary Scallon MEP, Eglinton St, Galway 
