christianity
{ Nicholas Wapshottin New York 
    February 26 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/jews-fear-backlash-as-mels-bloody-christ-movie-opens-26018312.html }
MEL GIBSON'S blood-spattered film of Christ's final days, 'The Passion of the Christ',  which sharply divided American opinion before anyone had seen a frame, was released yesterday, Ash Wednesday, to conflicting responses from critics and Christians. Such was the demand from evangelical Christian groups that the number of cinemas showing the film was increased at the last moment from 2,000 to 2,800 so that the film could be seen on 4,000 screens. Cinema chains reported $8m in advance ticket sales. Critics found the film excessively violent, and prominent Jews expressed disquiet at the tone and intention. They demanded that Jewish areas in New York should be protected by extra police in case it inspired anti-Semitic violence. While Gibson, a conservative Catholic for whom the Catholic Church is too modern, insists that he has merely portrayed what is written in the Bible, many prominent Jews have protested that, contrary to the Christian message, the film is designed to incite racial hatred. The film has also set off an ideological battle between those on the Right who believe that Christians are being gradually marginalised and the "liberal media elite", whom the Right blames for diminishing the importance of Christianity in American life. While the film opened like any other blockbuster in 35 New York cinemas, demand to see it was at its most intense in the South, the home of the evangelical Christian movement. Thousands of Christians lined up before dawn at a cineplex in suburban Dallas, Texas, which turned over all 20 screens to the film. It is considered to be so powerful a tool for encouraging conversion to Christianity that some evangelical groups have bought out cinemas and invited members to bring along "an unchurched friend". Parishioners from the First Baptist Church in Woodstock, Atlanta, bought all the seats at all 53 screenings at their local cinema for $63,000 so that anyone who wished to see the film could do so for nothing. Rodney Sampson, an Atlanta evangelist and businessman, paid $20,000 to take all 12 screens at his local cinema to spread the word. He described the film as "a masterpiece that will have a shelf life until Jesus returns". Cardinal Edward Egan, Archbishop of New York and America's most prominent Catholic, gave warning to Christians not to blame Jews for the death of Jesus. "Jesus gave His life for us. No one took it from Him," he said. He has not seen the film and has no intention of seeing it. Many came out of screenings shocked. Dov Hikind, a New York assemblyman from Brooklyn, said: "It was beyond anything that I imagined. I don't have any doubt this film will cause anti-Semitism. I don't have any doubt this film will result in violence." Joseph Camerieri, a paralegal student from Los Angeles, could barely hold back tears as he left a cinema in Plano, Texas. "I'm in shock. I'm physically weak. I'm emotional," he said. "I think if you are a Christian, it will increase your faith ten-fold in what Christ has done for you. If you are not a Christian, you'll probably treat others with more love." (©The Times, London) 
