christianity
{ John Bingham 
    January 08 2014 06:18 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/jesus-can-make-you-a-better-lover-commuters-told-29900058.html }
He fed the 5,000 and walked on water but now a new advertising campaign suggests that Jesus can work miracles in another area altogether.  Advertisements for a Christian dating agency are set to raise more than eyebrows with a claim that believers make “better lovers”.  The slogan, to appear in London Tube carriages from next week, appears to be based on spam emails promoting herbal anti-impotence drugs.  The use of the word “lover” also carries connotations of illicit relationships, despite the Bible’s prohibition on adultery. But the adverts explain that the pun is reference to the command in the Gospel of John for Christians to “love one another”.  Christian Connection, the agency which specialises in helping religious people find their soul mate, hopes that the tongue-in-cheek reference to impotence will make exhausted commuters “sit up and take notice”.  The company, set up in 2000, promotes itself as the only specifically Christian dating agency and claims to have paved the way for thousands of marriages.  It estimates that there are 1.4 million single Christians between the ages 25 and 60 in the UK.  “We wanted to be friendly, engaging and surprising,” said Jackie Elton, the founder of Christian Connection.  “We hope it will make people of all faiths and none sit up and take notice.  “The campaign informs single Christians about a website that may help them find a mate who shares the same world-view.  “The style is exciting, colourful and retro.  “We want to spread our wings and reach a wider range of Christians.”  The adverts were deigned by Chas Bayfield, of the advertising agency Noah, who is also the caretaker manager of a Baptist church in London.  “We believe this is a great opportunity to tell the world about Christian Connection and create a campaign that is contemporary and relevant – something many church organisations aren’t always known for,” he said.  Telegraph.co.uk 
