christianity
{  
    August 29 2008 03:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/brady-is-right-christians-are-alarmed-by-eu-trends-26472720.html }
Anyone who thinks summer schools have had their day ought to think again. The Humbert Summer School that took place last weekend in Ballina was a smash hit. One reason is that it addressed the ultra-topical issue of Europe and the Lisbon treaty, but more particularly because it provided a platform for Cardinal Sean Brady to voice some of the concerns many Christians have about trends within the EU. While some Catholics are euro-sceptical, no-one can accuse the Church itself of being so. Both Benedict XVI and John Paul II have always given the European project their support and so have the hierarchies of all of the member-states including our own. But the support is not unqualified, nor should it be. Cardinal Brady listed some of the reasons why a growing number of Christians are concerned about certain developments in the EU and why this helped to scupper the Lisbon referendum. The Government should pay close attention. He referred to "successive decisions which have undermined the family based on marriage, the right to life from the moment of conception, the sacredness of the Sabbath, the rights of Christian institutions to maintain and promote their ethos, including schools". He said these decisions "have made it more difficult for committed Christians to maintain their instinctive commitment to the European project". Cardinal Brady has since been attacked for talking through his mitre and that the threat to 'Christian values' he has conjured up is pure fantasy, but he is spot on and here are some of the reasons why. To begin with, the EU funds embryo stem-cell research and Ireland, led by Mary Harney, voted in favour of such funding. Quite clearly this undermines the "right to life from the moment of conception". In addition, since 2001 a portion of the EU's overseas aid budget has been allocated to pro-abortion organisations working in the Third World. This also undermines the right to life from the moment of conception. Recently, the European Commission told Ireland that the exemption religious schools enjoy from certain aspects of EU employment equality law is too broad and must be narrowed. This exemption allows such schools not to employ individuals they think will be harmful to their ethos. Under pressure, the Commission withdrew this action. But the point is that it was tried and who is to say another EU institution, say the European Court of Justice (ECJ), won't attempt something similar in the future? Both the Commission and the Court have both interfered with family law, for example, in Germany, even though family law is supposed to belong exclusively to the member-states and not Brussels. The Commission has told Germany that its civil partnership law for same-sex couples does not go far enough and must be made equivalent to marriage, and last April the ECJ ordered a private German pension scheme to recognise a homosexual employee's partner for pension purposes. It doesn't stop there. A new EU body called the Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA) has just issued a 164-page report setting out how the gay rights agenda, in its totality, can be implemented across the whole of the EU. A predecessor to the FRA tried to undo a concordat between the Vatican and Slovakia that gave doctors the right not to perform abortions if it went against their consciences. As for the European Parliament, it is fond of passing resolutions sharply critical of religion. One called 'Women and Fundamentalism' basically equated all forms of religious orthodoxy with fundamentalism (a favourite tactic of secularists). Attentive Christians are aware of all this. They know that the EU must be a secular organisation, but they know as well that it does not have to have a secularising agenda which is increasingly hostile to religion. They also see that the EU is increasingly in the grip of what can only be described as equality absolutism and that other values such as freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of association, the right to life, the definition of marriage, the right of a child to a mother and father must take second place, at best. None of the values just listed is specifically religious and in the case of the first three, the Church has only recently swung its weight behind them. So what the EU (parts of it at least) is doing shouldn't concern only Christians. Additionally, Christians can see that our own Government has done almost nothing to oppose any of these developments and, on the contrary, has in some cases supported them, for example, by funding embryo stem-cell research. To judge from remarks made by Lucinda Creighton this week to the effect that the concerns of some voters regarding "social and moral" issues must be taken into account, Fine Gael is aware of what is going on. But, to judge by noises emanating from the Government, it is as deaf to those anxieties as ever. The Government has a choice, therefore -- it can address some of these concerns or it can prepare itself to lose the next Lisbon referendum. Which does it want to do? dquinn@independent.ie 
