christianity
{ Mary Kenny 
    December 15 2013 11:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/mary-kenny/many-have-tried-but-no-one-has-yet-succeeded-in-killing-off-christmas-29840785.html }
There is a growing number of secularists and agnostics in Ireland who seek to remove faith from the public square. This includes "taking the Christ from Christmas", this being the agenda for Abie Philbin Bowman's witty enterprise of a godless "Assembly" replacing Sunday church-going.  Yet modern-day secularists would not be the first to try and change Christmas. There is a long tradition of Christmas-bashing and even suppressing it, going back to Cromwell's time.  The Lord Protector's regime prohibited celebrations at Christmas and even went to the trouble of outlawing mince pies as a form of pagan gluttony.  Hostility to mince pies lasted until the Victorian period among Protestant sects; the 19th-Century literary man Edmund Gosse wrote a famous autobiography in which he recounted that when he tasted the forbidden Christmas treat, he was obliged to confess to his stern father -- "Father, I have partaken of the food of the idolator". (A few very strict Christians in the Protestant tradition still do not approve of celebrations at Christmas.) The Cromwellites, and their subsequent heirs, objected to Christmas because, to them, it didn't have enough of Christ in the festivities, and had incorporated pagan elements into Christian merrymaking -- which seemed a little too merry anyway, and might lead to alcoholic beverages.  More broad-minded Christians raised no objection to including, and then sanctifying, pre-Christian traditions into faith practice and folk religion.  The holly and the ivy are quite clearly pagan, or nature-derived symbols, and orthodox Christians of any ilk did not approve, originally, of their appearance in Christmas carols, but somehow they were seamlessly knitted into the whole Christmas experience. In modern times, there has been a sustained attempt to erase the concept of Christmas partly in the cause of political correctness, and partly in a sincere attempt to make it a more "relevant" and "inclusive" festivity. For more than 30 years now, the Americans have been trying to teach people to say "Happy Holidays" instead of "Merry Christmas", so as to include a number of different religious holidays that fall within the Yuletide season. Thanksgiving, a Puritan tradition of thanking the Almighty for the harvest, is at the end of November: this year it also fell on the same day as the Jewish candlelight feast of Hanukkah, which is a moveable feast within the Christmas period.  The Islamic New Year also began in November, and the universal New Year begins on January 1. So instead of saying "Merry Christmas", why not include all feasts in November-December and call it "Happy Holidays"? But the public has never taken this salutation to their hearts. Firstly, it's confusing: holidays are a vacation period you spend away from home, often sunning yourself in some pleasant clime. Christmas isn't a bit like that: Christmas is a time that most people want to spend at home, not sunning themselves but stuffing themselves.  In America, moreover, Christmas is just one day -- they are back to work on December 26, so it is one holiday, not a continuum of holidays. Secondly, observant Jews prefer you to wish them "Happy Hanukkah" rather than "Happy Holidays": just like Christians, or people of other faiths, they don't want their feast days diminished into a generalised catch-all. "Winterval" is another well-meaning idea of replacing Christmas with a winter festive season for all. The "Winterval" innovation is said to have been conceived by Labour councillors on Birmingham City Council, who, aware of their large Islamic and Hindu population, were seeking to curry favour with voters.  After all, the celebration of Christmas is forbidden in Islamic countries such as Saudi Arabia, where the ecclesiastical police have been known to patrol restaurants on December 25, checking out that no one is partaking of a Christmas dinner. So, it was reckoned Islamic incomers to the UK must also object to "Christmas", and should feel more included by the term "Winterval".  But it turns out that while some Islamic societies prohibit Christmas, Islamic immigrations into societies with Christian traditions don't object to Christmas at all, and the school Nativity play is often a particular favourite with children of all backgrounds.  "Winterval" has had a modest degree of acceptance for snowy festivities, but it hasn't come within an ass's roar of erasing or replacing Christmas. There aren't many greetings cards with the message "Have a lovely Winterval!" and not a lot of families write "Happy Winterval, darling!" on the tags for their Christmas presents.  The feast of Christmas, assaulted from all sides, has always emerged victorious. It has certainly been commercialised and it has surely been subjected to accretions that have nothing to do with the Christ in Christmas -- the Christmas tree itself is a pagan symbol of German nature-worship and, strictly speaking, it has no place in a Christian church, yet it appears quite normally now in churches, integrated into the Christmas tradition. And despite the many incorporations into Christmas that are not Christian, or only very distended versions of Christian traditions -- Santa Claus is now a little distantly related to St Nicholas -- something meaningful and spiritual still remains at the heart of the season: the Feast of the Nativity and the Babe in the Manger retain a deep, metaphorical pull about the wonder of life and the light of the world. Irish Independent 
