christianity
{  
    August 18 2012 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/why-katie-believes-god-fights-in-her-corner-26888932.html }
Katie Taylor is a creature of habit. Whenever she attends St Mark's Pentecostal Church on Pearse Street in Dublin's south-inner city -- usually the noon service every Sunday -- she sits in the same seat, three rows from the front, and to the pastor's left. Flanked by her parents Pete and Bridget, her sense of devotion to God is palpable -- and it has been apparent from her teen years, when she first became a regular at this former Church of Ireland church where Oscar Wilde was baptised. There are no images of Jesus or scenes from the Bible at St Mark's. Instead, oil paintings of lighthouses hang on the white-washed walls. Flat screen televisions are placed at the front of the church and a drum-kit rests in the place where one might find a tabernacle in a Catholic church. Music is an essential component of the Pentecostal strand of evangelical Protestantism -- and Katie's sister-in-law, Kim, is the music director at St Mark's. A deep-rooted, born-again Christianity -- honed at St Mark's -- is a fundamental part of the Katie Taylor make-up. And she has made no secret of her love of Christ. After every fight, including her gold medal-winning performance last week, she openly thanked God. As soon as she learnt that she had beaten Russian Sofya Ochigava she raised her arms skyward and dropped to her knees, as if in prayer. "I am an Olympic champion but Jesus is a champion of champions," she said afterwards. "With him, nothing is impossible." Such heartfelt sentiments are rarely heard publicly in the increasingly secular Ireland of 2012, especially from a celebrity, but the 26-year-old woman from Bray has much of the same single-mindedness about Christianity as she does about boxing. "Christ abides in us and we in him," says Cliona Murphy, a Corkonian, who is the administrator at St Mark's Church. "To have a relationship with God is the most wonderful thing. "Katie has that relationship and she is not embarrassed to come out and say it." Murphy and many of the rest of the St Mark's congregation -- or "The Family" as the pastor Sean Mullarkey affectionately calls his flock -- watched Taylor's fights on a big screen in the church. They prayed for Katie's safety and were jubilant when she achieved her goal. At St Mark's, they believe Katie fights God's corner in the ring, that she expresses her love of him through a talent for boxing that she has honed over a dozen, often lonely, years. "She has a great sense of humility," Murphy says. "She's become an inspiration to a lot of people and I think young people in particular might look to her and see that there is someone they can relate to who has found happiness through God." In a world in which top athletes and self-aggrandisement appear to go hand in hand, Taylor's modesty sets her apart. It's the same story when she goes to church on Sundays. She is happy to be just another worshipper, to engage with those around her, but not to seek attention. "I suppose we're quite protective of her," Cliona Murphy says. "That's what a family does -- each member looks out for one another." Yet, Taylor -- who has been boxing competitively since she was 14 -- has shown to have an old head on young shoulders. And, while the offers have been flooding in this week, she's unlikely to make a rash decision, especially about the lure of professional boxing. "I will pray about it," Taylor told a radio interviewer after winning gold. "I will see what God's plan is for me." By her own admission, Taylor knows little about the pro game. But its unbridled aggression and propensity for "trash talk" may be at odds with her "love one another" faith. She has frequently made it clear that she punches to score points, not to inflict pain. the service It's Tuesday night in Goldenbridge Industrial Estate, Inchicore, Dublin, and Pastor Emmanuel Might of the Solid Rock Pentecostal Church beams at the very mention of Katie Taylor. "Everyone in the Christian community in this country is proud of her," he says. "She is a great sportsperson and a great Christian." "She is not afraid to speak of her love of God and how God has enriched her life," he says. Pastor Might is originally from Cameroon and has lived in Ireland for more than 10 years. He notes how infrequently public figures declare a love of God in this country and believes Taylor is as courageous outside the ring as in it. "She is an inspiration to us all. It's something that people in this (chiefly African) community have been talking about a lot over the past few days." Some 17 African nations are frequently represented at services in the Solid Rock Church on Sunday mornings and Tuesday evenings and tonight there's a smattering of Irish people too. The service lasts two-and-a-half hours. There are impassioned speeches from Pastor Might and a visiting "prophet" from Ghana. Hymns -- led by female vocalists on the stage -- are sung fervently by the congregation. A band provides music for the entire evening, including an instrumental accompaniment for homilies which rise in tempo to suit the preachers' deliveries. Passages from the Bible are relayed on two big screens and there is much talk of protecting oneself from the influence of the devil. the support Rob Clarke is the director of Ireland's only Christian radio station, Spirit. He has tracked Katie Taylor's career for several years and, aware of her strong faith, asked if she would support to the launch of the station last year. "She was incredibly obliging," he says, "and she was really pleased to do what she could to raise the profile of the station. She has long enjoyed contemporary Christian music and was excited by a station that has a brief to play that sort of music and to reach out to Christians all over the country. "In the interview she did with us, she was very open about her love of God and how he helps her when she is in the ring. "It's impossible to listen to her and not be struck by the depth of her feelings towards Christ and how that devotion has made her the woman she is today." It's an opinion shared by Kelly Mahon, a newsreader at Spirit Radio, who is also a Pentecostal devotee. "Growing up, as a Catholic, I felt that God was abstract, distant," she says. "But through Pentecostal services you can develop a very close relationship with God because everything is stripped away. "Katie has that all-encompassing relationship -- she loves God, and when you love God you want to tell the world about it." the tradition The Pentecostal tradition -- which has its roots in the US 'Bible Belt' -- has mushroomed in Ireland over the past decade. Many followers are immigrants from Africa who have long been attracted to evangelical Christianity. But increasing numbers of Irish people are abandoning traditional masses and services in favour of the more demonstrative experiences of Pentecostal churches. Noel Kenny is one of them. Now a Pentecostal pastor with churches in Dublin and Bray, he grew up in abject poverty in Dolphin's Barn -- one of the city's most deprived enclaves in the 1980s. "I had little hope," he says. "Drugs had taken over. "My friends were contracting HIV and were dying. Jesus felt a long way away. But then I met someone who had a strong faith, who told me that Jesus loved me too and it inspired me to look for answers. "To know God is on your side, makes life that bit easier. You can face up to adversity and beat it. "I'm married with four children and life is good. If I didn't find God when I did, I'd be dead now. "In our churches, I see young people who have been given a new lease of life because they have found God. "Traditional churches maybe haven't reached out enough to these vulnerable people, so when they find a Pentecostal service they see it's unlike anything they might have been used to before." The example of Katie Taylor, he believes, will encourage more young people to investigate this strand of Christianity. "Her message is simple," he says. "And compelling." the psychology Initially viewed with suspicion, psychology has become an accepted part of elite athletes' preparation. Sports psychologist Gerry Hussey was part of the Irish delegation at the London Olympics, and his contribution was praised by John Joe Nevin, who won silver in boxing. Katie Taylor is thought to be less open to psychological techniques than some of her Irish boxing colleagues, but a leading sports psychologist, Dr Olivia Hurley, reckons her Christian faith gives her a psychological edge. "When she talks about God and the angels being in the ring with her, she really means it," she says. "She is empowered by her beliefs. And when she speaks of how people's prayers have helped her; there's no doubt in my mind that she derives huge support from that. "Some sports people look up to other figures in sport for inspiration or read motivational books like Lance Armstrong's (It's Not About The Bike: My Journey Back to Life) to help them compete and Katie does much the same, except her icon is God and her motivational reading is the Bible." Indo Review 
