christianity
{ RUTH SHERLOCK 
    September 06 2014 10:59 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/syrian-christian-stronghold-now-a-target-of-al-qaeda-30567410.html }
Al-Qaeda's branch in Syria is attacking one of the country's remaining Christian strongholds, as it presses its offensive against the regime of President Bashar al-Assad. Jabhat al-Nusra fighters, who have pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda's leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, are encircling the historic Christian town of Mhardeh and bombarding it with artillery, residents reported. "There is shelling night and day. We have no electricity. There is only one road out and it is dangerous to use it now," said Joseph, a civil engineer in Mhardeh, who spoke using a pseudonym for fear of reprisals if the jihadists enter the town. For centuries, Mhardeh was a safe haven for Syria's Greek Orthodox Christians, recently housing a population of approximately 23,000. Now, however, Mhardeh - known locally as the "city of the sun" - has been plunged into the Syrian civil war. The threat to the town is a stark reminder that jihadist bloodletting is not confined to Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (IS), the group that has declared a caliphate in Syria and Iraq and gained world attention. Located just 20 miles north of the central city of Hama, on a road that leads to the coastal heartland of Assad's Alawite sect, and close to one of the Syrian government's largest military bases, Mhardeh had long been a marked city. For the rebels to advance against the regime in central Syria, cut off government supply lines to their front lines in Aleppo, and reach the Alawites in Latakia, they need to control Mhardeh. In August 2012, Jabhat al-Nusra took the credit for a suicide bomb that killed three civilians and one security officer. In a statement on a jihadist forum and translated by the SITE Intelligence group, al-Nusra made Mhardeh a focus of its offensive. Government forces then attacked surrounding Sunni, opposition-held villages, blitzing the territory with shell fire and barrel bombs. Late last year, as opposition groups began fighting among themselves, and then against Isil, al-Nusra's grasp on Hama province weakened. But last month, as attention was focused on Isil seizing swathes of northern Iraq and consolidating its control over its territories in northern Syria, al-Nusra and local allied rebel groups launched a renewed and concerted offensive in Hama region. Fighting on several fronts, Assad had become reliant on local vigilantes and Shia militia groups trained and funded by Iran. The regime's manpower was then weakened when thousands of the Shia militias moved across the border to fight Isil in Iraq after the group took control of the country's second city, Mosul. Jabhat al-Nusra and its allies seized the moment to press south in Hama, taking the town of Halfaya, less than one mile east of Mhardeh and Sunni villages close by. Abu Adnan al-Hamwi, a Syrian opposition activist and resident of Hama, who also spoke using a pseudonym, said the jihadists were aiming at Mhardeh not because the population is Christian, but because the group needs to seize a major government military complex in the area. "This army base is the place from which the regime shells all the towns in northern Hama countryside," he said. "Thousands of people have died in the last three years because of the rockets fired from this base." Jabhat al-Nusra has generally shown itself to be less extreme than Isil/IS, whose practices of beheadings and crucifixions are continuing. When al-Nusra captured and then released a group of nuns from the Christian town of Maaloula, the sisters reported that they had been "treated well". Nonetheless, the prospect of al-Nusra takeover remains terrifying for Mhardeh's residents. Christian villages that have fallen into the hands of Nusra and its allies, such as Kasab in the north of the country, have seen churches desecrated and religious monuments destroyed. Under jihadist hardline rule, Christians are allowed to remain if they convert to Islam or pay a religious tax that is supposed to guarantee protection. The reality - especially at the hands of hardline foreign jihadists - is more violent. In practice, residents of Christian communities overrun by al-Nusra have fled their homes, and have little prospect of returning. ©Telegraph Sunday Independent 
