christianity
{  
    December 09 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/pulling-the-nativity-play-is-just-madness-even-in-this-pc-world-26337439.html }
Just in case any of you were planning on sending me a card for the holiday season, please be advised that you should address it to: "The journalist formally known as Carol". As Christmas Carol, (born in December) I have only recently become aware of the offence my name must cause to sensitive souls who are not of the Christian faith. There are good people out there ready to be offended and who am I to argue with those of a greater faith? Okay, okay, yes, I'm exaggerating. I'm not actually going to change my name -- at least not just yet. But who knows? Perhaps in another few years' time anything that suggests a Western Christian heritage may be deemed offensive and politically incorrect. I mean, not even the most optimistic of atheists could have predicted that certain nursery schools in Ireland, in the year 2007, would cancel their annual nativity plays for fear of causing offence. Of course, if you are of a Kenneth Tynan-type mindset, (or an out-of-work actor), you may indeed be offended at the sight of snotty toddlers wearing tea towels, murdering their way through Good King Wenceslas while Alpha Mummy coos and claps with embarrassing enthusiasm. Or you may be like me and believe that a girl is never too young to go through the torment of not being picked to play the Virgin Mary. (What does 'Virgin' mean Mummy?) Next week I will have the pleasure of attending my children's Carol Service, in the Church attached to their school. Last year the children played out a nativity scene on the altar and much fun was had by all involved and even more by the doting parents watching. Even though I am not a member of the Christian faith myself, having abandoned it reluctantly in favour of a robust agnosticism (and truly agnostics are the Most Oppressed People on the Earth), my children attend the wonderful local Church of Ireland School where they learn the rudiments of the Christian faith. And what's wrong with that? Whether they decide to take on any religious faith or none, a good grounding in the Christian tradition is essential if they are to understand anything about the culture they come from. If for some reason they had to move to Israel for instance, I would expect them to learn something about the Jewish culture, if they found themselves in an Islamic country they should learn as much about their ways also. And they have taken to Protestantism like Catholics to baptismal water. The 6-year-old is fascinated by the different beliefs of her peers (her best friend is a Buddhist and her favourite cousin is Catholic, both equally exotic in her eyes) and has to be restrained from asking strangers if they believe in God and if they do 'which one?' She has recently taken to calling herself a 'Prosident', mixing State (President) and religion (Protestant) in a way that is most unconstitutional. And the 4-year-old belts out Christmas hymns in a manner which -- in a less tolerant atmosphere -- may be considered blasphemous. Both love donning sheets and tea towels and acting out the the story of the nativity. I have yet to meet a parent of any religion, anywhere in Ireland, who finds watching their little darling stuttering, wide-eyed: "Look, it's an angel" while wearing the sheet from mammy's bed, offensive. But apparently there are some people out there standing up and just waiting, begging even, to be righteously offended by kids playing dress-up. Last week on Joe Duffy's Liveline radio programme, a disgruntled caller rang in to say that her child's creche had cancelled its nativity play because of complaints from non-Christian parents. And seemingly quite a few other nurseries have had similar problems. So I called into the creche here in Trinity College, where both of my children spent their formative years, and asked Montessori teacher Niamh Flanagan what she thought of the matter. "Celebrating Christmas is an Irish tradition," Niamh said emphatically. "The children, no matter what religion they are, love making Christmas decorations, acting in the nativity play and of course, the visit from Santa. We certainly won't be getting rid of it. " If children were being forced to participate in a Christian celebration against the wishes of their parents there would be cause for complaint. No one should be forced to take part in religious rituals. Just as if Bertie announced tomorrow that we are now officially a fundamentalist Christian state and anyone who didn't have a crib in their home would be taken out and shot. But children aren't being forced to do anything or believe anything that is against their culture. If they don't want to participate they don't have to. But for some reason there are parents out there who find the idea of Christian Irish children, putting on a nativity play in their creche, offensive. One wonders what they expected? St Patrick the Jedi worshipper perhaps? I am a great believer in the division between church and state and the need for the state apparatus to act in a secular manner. But this does not mean denying the vast majority of citizens in this country the right to celebrate a national holiday in the traditional manner. Putting up Christmas decorations or placing a crib in RTE should not be a punishable offence. And objecting to children dressing up as characters from a nativity play is political correctness gone mad. If we start kowtowing to this sort of nonsense where will it end? With Bing Crosby dreaming of a White Holiday? Or Shane McGowan singing about the Bells Ringing out on the Annual Mid-Winter Holiday? I have taken part in many a nativity play in my day. It's a bit of a right of passage for many Irish people. I worked my way up the ecclesiastical ladder, from sheperd to wise man, on to the angel Gabriel and finally I landed myself the coveted part of the Virgin Mary. If anyone is offended at the thought that I -- a self- confessed secular agnostic who regularly discusses the joy of sex for the edification of readers of this newspaper -- was chosen to represent Catholicism's most revered women, prepare to be even more offended. My partner as Joseph was none other than comedian Tommmy Tiernan. I have the photos to prove it. Now, that's good clean blasphemy! 
