christianity
{  
    December 01 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-pope-ate-humble-pie-but-certainly-didnt-grovel-26349128.html }
TO READ some of the reporting of the Pope's trip to Turkey you could be forgiven for thinking his main purpose in being there was to grovel before his Muslim hosts and eat very large amounts of humble pie. The reasoning is that Benedict still had plenty of apologising to do over his Regensburg address during which he quoted a Byzantine Emperor who said anything new Islam has brought to the world is only evil and inhuman. In addition, this thinking went, the Pope ought to apologise in a broader sense for the crimes Christians have committed against Muslims right down the centuries, chief among those crimes being the Crusades. This plays very neatly into the very modern notion that the West is the perpetual oppressor in history and every other culture its victim. It is an idea that chimes very nicely with the raging sense of victimhood that courses through most of the Muslim world. They think they're victims, we think they're victims, and so they must really be victims. Two things need to be said here. The first is that the Catholic Church under Pope John Paul II has already issued numerous apologies for the various crimes committed in the Church's name. The second is that these apologies have never been reciprocated and indeed there seems to be no awareness at all either in the West or in the Muslim world that any such apologies are needed. All this shows is our total ignorance of history beginning with the fact that for the great majority of its 1,400 years on this planet, Islam and not Christendom has been in the ascendancy and it has been the conqueror and we the conquered. Consider, for example, the following. The five great cities of Christianity for many centuries, the so-called Patriarchates, were Rome, Constantinople (modern Istanbul), Alexandria, Antioch and Jerusalem. Only one of those five remains in nominally Christian hands, namely Rome. The other four were conquered by Muslims, although Jerusalem is in Jewish hands. Or consider this. There are three broad reasons why the rest of Christendom, meaning us, did not fall to Islam. They are Muslim in-fighting, the Mongols and the Crusades. Muslim in-fighting meant they weren't fighting the Christian world. They fought among themselves - like we did. The Mongols stopped the Muslims armies in their tracks at least twice. On one of those occasions the whole of Europe lay open before the might of the Ottoman Turks. The Crusades temporarily halted the Seljuk Turks in their tracks. By the end of the 11th century, the Turks had been so all-conquering that almost the whole of the Byzantine Empire had fallen to them including many of the ancient cities of Christendom, among them Antioch and Ephesus. The Turks had arrived at the Bosporus and were looking right across the waters at the glittering prize of Constantinople with Europe lying beyond that. So Europe lay in imminent danger and to make matters worse, the Turks had made the ancient pilgrim routes to Jerusalem very dangerous for Christians. In modern terms that would be like Christians conquering Mecca and making it difficult for Muslims to go there. Jerusalem was the Christian Mecca. The Byzantine Emperor appealed to the Pope for help. He answered the call and the First Crusade was organised. Amazingly it succeeded in driving the Turks back from the Bosporus and retaking Jerusalem (where, contrary to popular belief, there was almost certainly no massacre). OF COURSE, the success of the Crusades was fairly short-lived, if two centuries counts as short-lived. It was destroyed piece by piece and often very brutally. When Christian Antioch fell in 1268, Turkish Sultan Baybars ordered the single greatest massacre of the entire Crusader era, an event now forgotten. In fact, we have forgotten almost everything from this era and it is why we think it is only we who owe apologies and that we are never owed apologies in return. Why point any of this out? It is because our current selective reading of history is having present-day real world consequences. It is feeding the Muslim sense of grievance and victim-hood and is also feeding our sense of guilt. This has the effect of making Muslim extremists even more extreme, and it makes us ever more inclined to engage in appeasement. As for Benedict XVI, he has a proper sense of history. He knows all about the terrible crimes committed by Christians, and about the terrible crimes committed against them, both by Muslims and more recently by fanatical secularists. But he also knows that Islam has a positive side and that secularism has brought many benefits of its own. The Pope brought his properly balanced sense of history with him to Turkey this week and it is why, although he rightly made conciliatory gestures and ate some humble pie, he did not grovel as some wished him to. No-one who knows the real history of Christianity and Islam would do, or want, such a thing. dquinn@iol.ie 
