christianity
{ VICTOR SIMPSON 
    October 14 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/papal-visit-to-nazareth-at-risk-in-mosque-row-26135396.html }
ANGERED by an Israeli decision to allow a mosque near a Christian shrine in Nazareth, the Vatican warned Israel yesterday that the plan could threaten a long-awaited papal visit to the Holy Land. In its first public comment on a dispute raging for months, the Vatican took the unusual step of hinting that a papal pilgrimage may be at stake. While no date for the trip has been announced, Israeli officials say they expect John Paul to visit in March during celebrations by the Vatican of the start of Christianity's third millennium. The Vatican statement followed the Israeli announcement of a compromise in the dispute over construction of a mosque near the Basilica of the Annunciation in Nazareth, Jesus Christ's boyhood home. Israel said the mosque would cover a third of a half-acre plot of land next to the basilica. Christians want the entire area for an Italian-style square to accommodate thousands of pilgrims expected in the millennium. Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said in a statement that the Israeli decision ``worried'' both the Vatican and the Roman Catholic church in the Holy Land. ``It is not superfluous to observe that such a situation doesn't help in preparing for a possible pilgrimage by the holy father to that great sanctuary.'' Referring to tensions over the mosque issue, the statement said the Pope would expect on any visit to Nazareth to find a city that is a symbol of peaceful coexistence between Christians and Muslims. ``It is hoped that Israeli government authorities, considering the value that the city of Nazareth holds for all of Christianity, will know how to ensure the respect of the Christian sanctuary and its free and peaceful access to pilgrims,'' the Vatican said. The Islamic Movement, a political party, wanted the entire area for a mosque because a Muslim sage is buried there. The disagreement erupted into violence between the town's Muslim majority and Christian minority over Easter weekend. Cars were stoned and shops set on fire. When it appeared that the Israeli government backed Muslim plans for a mosque, despite a court ruling last week that the Muslims had no legal claim to most of the land, Christian churches threatened a boycott of millennium activities. In Israel, Public Security Minister Shlomo Ben-Ami, who brokered the compromise between Muslims and Christians in Nazareth, responded with assurances to the Vatican of ``freedom of movement and personal security'' during a papal visit. ``This doesn't have to adversely affect the Pope's visit,'' he said. John Paul has been invited by both the Israelis and Palestinians. He has expressed the hope of making a series of pilgrimages in the Middle East, with stops in Iraq, Syria and Egypt as well as the Holy Land.  His only Middle East stop to date was Lebanon two years ago. 
