christianity
{ SEAN MacREAMOINN 
    September 30 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/paper-is-cold-comfort-to-those-not-of-roman-faith-26170098.html }
`ONE bread, one body' is the title of a ``Teaching Document'' issued simultaneously at press conferences held yesterday in Dublin, London and Glasgow. The subject is ``the Eucharist in the life of the Church'' and it also establishes ``general norms on sacramental sharing''. It is unusual, in being a joint statement by the Roman Catholic Bishops' conferences of England and Wales, and of Scotland, as well as of Ireland. The question of ``sacramental sharing'' involving Christians of other churches became a matter of public attention here some months ago, following President McAleese's participation in Holy Communion in Christchurch Cathedral. It should, however, be noted that the preparation of this document began two years ago in the four countries concerned. ``Many will have hoped for encouragement of greater sacramental sharing, others will think we have gone too far,'' the document says. Whatever about ``going too far'' we can be certain that many committed Christians, members of all our churches, will be disappointed by this document, or at least by what it has to say about inter-Communion and what has been called ``eucharistic hospitality''. It will inevitably be seen as ``conservative'' by those who wish to see a more open attitude to the question including partners in ``mixed marriages'' and other ecumenically minded Catholics who, the document notes, have made ``strong appeals'' to Church authority for the admission of other Christians to Holy Communion. The response indicated here may appear negative, or certainly less than generous. But there is more than this to be said. One Bread, One Body is not primarily about discipline. Indeed, the greater part of the text is not directly concerned with inter-Communion. It is rather a study of the centrality of the Eucharist in the life of the Church, and as such, will be acceptable to many Christians not of the Roman Catholic tradition or obedience. The document notes that the Catholic understanding of the sacrament ``is still a point of division for others''. However, ``official dialogues between the Catholic Church and other Christian communities have been very fruitful. There has been growing agreement about many aspects of the mystery of the Eucharist and we are glad to make use of the results of these dialogues in our document. Because of this deepening relationship, Christians in Britain and Ireland increasingly have a `burning desire to join in celebrating the one Eucharist of the Lord'.'' The basic position of the authors of One Bread, One Body is that this common celebration is something that Christians must hope and pray for but cannot happen until a ``full reconciliation of Christians is achieved''. Until there is unity in faith and practice, there cannot be Eucharistic unity. This is, of course, the long standing position of the Roman tradition, but equally, even more uncompromisingly, held by most of the Eastern orthodox. It would then be wrong to attribute the general tenor of this document to ``insular'' attitudes arising from Irish or British circumstances. In fact, the current Roman Directory for the Application of Principles and Norms on Ecumenism invited conferences of Bishops as well as individual diocesan bishops to establish further ``norms'' applicable to national and regional conditions. And this invitation pointed to the Decree of Ecumenism of the Second Vatican Council which states that while the doctrine that ``common worship'' should signify the unity of the church must rule out sacramental sharing, the ``gaining of grace'' may commend it. In other words, a sacramental sharing may be a step forward on the road to Christian unity. Where then does this leave us in practical terms? Following the discussion of the doctrinal basis of sacramental order in part two of the document (part one is a general introduction) part three, ``together yet divided'', examines the situation of divided Christians including those of broken marriages and their ``spiritual needs''. Then, in part four, the exceptional situations where sacramental sharing may be acceptable and even valuable, may be considered. For theological reasons the orthodox churches are seen as a special case. But obviously, these are of less immediate concern in these islands compared to those churches commonly known as ``Protestant''. In general it can be said that when members of these churches may occasionally be admitted to Holy Communion (and certain other sacraments) by Catholic priests and ministers, this cannot be reciprocated. Obviously, the authors of One Bread, One Body regard this as a matter of real regret. And in saying so, they reflect the tone of most of the document.  Unhappily, many of those outside the Roman Communion may be forgiven if they regard this as rather cold comfort. 
