christianity
{ David Quinn Religious Correspondent 
    January 22 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/conservative-and-liberal-christians-must-listen-to-each-other-26005326.html }
THE Christian divisions of the future may not be between Catholics and Protestants so much as between liberals and conservatives, the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Dublin has said. Dr John Neill made the remark last night as part of Christian unity week. He suggested that within all of the Christian Churches there were tensions between those "who see every issue very clearly", and those who try to "search out the implications of living the life of Christ in this 21st century". He indicated both approaches were necessary. "Some have indeed said that new divisions would in the future be far less between Catholic and Protestant, between East and West, and far more between conservative and progressive or radical Christians. It is our task to ensure that we listen to each other - because both are being true to the Gospel - the Good News of Jesus," he said. Dr Neill also said the different churches need to be more accountable to each other and more aware of how unilateral actions by one can sometimes have adverse effects on others. He gave the example of how the unilateral consecration of the first openly gay bishop by the Anglican Church in America in 2003 had caused shockwaves in the rest of Anglicanism. "Within the Anglican Communion, that family of churches to which the Church of Ireland belongs, there have been difficulties in the whole area of the interpretation of Scripture and in the ethical demands of the Christian faith. What has come out of this is a growing realisation throughout the Anglican Communion that we need to express a great accountability to each other as member churches." He said that what has become apparent within Anglicanism has implications for all the Christian Churches. "If we are serious about ecumenical commitments, then we must have a real measure of accountability to one another. This does not mean we always agree on everything." Dr Neill said it does mean "that we listen to one another" . . . It means sensitivity to the growing relationship between the Christian traditions that makes it impossible for us to act all by ourselves as if no other Christians existed." 
