christianity
{  
    January 03 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/israeli-injustice-to-palestinians-26060342.html }
Sir  The refusal of the Israeli Government to allow the  Palestinian President Yasser Arafat to attend Midnight  Mass in Bethlehem is just another example of the injustices inflicted on the Palestinian people by the Israeli occupation. Since 1967, when Israel invaded and occupied the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Israel has treated the Palestinians in the occupied territories as second-class non-citizens in their own land. Israel has built numerous Jewish settlements on Palestinian land (despite the fact that these settlements are illegal under international law), deprived the Palestinian people of access to adequate water supplies and routinely ignored UN resolutions which called on Israel to withdraw from the Palestinian territories. Since the present conflict began 15 months ago, more than 800 Palestinians, many of them children, have been killed by the Israeli army. Israel has adopted a state terrorist policy of murdering Palestinians who it perceives as a threat to its security, as well as destroying the infrastructure of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA). The Israeli army blockade of Palestinian towns and villages has destroyed the economy of the PNA and the livelihood of countless Palestinians. If a lasting peace is to be achieved in the Middle East, Israel must end its occupation of the Palestinian territories and recognise the right of the Palestinian people to have a viable, independent state. The establishment of a sovereign, independent, democratic Palestinian state, comprising all of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, with East Jerusalem as its capital, is the only long-term guarantee of peace, security and stability in the region. The sooner it is established, the better for everyone in the region. Mairtin O Gliosain, Patrick St, Dublin 8 It is Arafat who is preventing hundreds of thousands of Christians from visiting Bethlehem, Nazareth, Jerusalem and Galilee. Christian leaders should ban him from Bethlehem until he stops his intifada. Sharon did exactly the right thing. Prior to 1995 when Israel relinquished control of Bethlehem to Arafat, Christmas Eve in Bethlehem Square was an occasion when Christian choirs worldwide eagerly sought the privilege of performing there. Israel has always protected the rights of Christians to worship unimpeded. All Arafat has done is to impede access of Christians to worship there. Perhaps this is what he means when he says he is "protecting holy sites" protecting them from Christians? A hint of things to come began at Christmas in 1994 when Israel turned partial control of Bethlehem over to the Palestinians. The choirs could not be heard over the noise of men threading through the crowd in the Square selling falafel, balloons, noise makers, etc. The Christmas decorations were hidden by banners which had Arafat's photo on them. In other words, he turned Bethlehem Square into a shouk, and for this he expected and received and continues to receive the support of the Pope and some European leaders. It is Arafat who has made Christians worldwide afraid to come to Bethlehem and Israel. Realistically, they should despise him for this and for driving Christian Arabs out of their homes in Bethlehem and commandeering the homes of Christian Arabs in Beit Jala to shoot at Jewish homes in Gilo. Why do the Lutherans not tell how he sent his thugs to take over their orphanage in Bethlehem at gunpoint in 1995 and evicted the medical director and staff? Why does the Roman Catholic Church hush-up the fact that for years the nuns and priests in Bethlehem have had to pay protection money to Arafat's gangsters? Let Arafat accept peace with Israel, put Israel on his maps, take hatred for Jews out of the school curriculum and out of his rhetoric to his people and thereby prove his adoration of the Prince of Peace is genuine and not another cynical stage performance, intended to take the focus off Jesus and place it upon himself. Paula K Keys, Eilat, Israel 
