christianity
{ PHILIP WYLAM 
    April 04 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/christians-in-nazareth-run-gauntlet-of-muslim-abuse-26152315.html }
EASTER Sunday turned violent in Nazareth after clashes erupted between Christians and Muslims.The unrest in the Israeli city, where Jesus is said to have spent his boyhood, centred on the planned construction of a plaza for millennium pilgrims near the site of a mosque. Thousands of young Muslim men gathered at the disputed site near the Church of the Annunciation where Muslims have been holding protests for nearly a year. Some hurled insults and curses at Christian worshippers leaving the church where tradition holds that the Angel Gabriel appeared before Mary and told her she was pregnant. Other youths, wielding clubs, smashed windshields of cars with crosses dangling from the mirrors. More than 70 Israeli police in riot gear were brought in to end the fighting but made little effort to halt the violence. At one point, a group of policemen stood and watched as Muslim youths smashed the window of a gold-coloured Mercedes. Seven people were injured but there were no arrests, said police spokeswoman Linda Menuhin. The clashes, between the mostly Arab city's predominately Muslim and minority Christian populations, came after months of rising tensions surrounding festivities for the year 2000. Problems arose over ambitious plans to give the city a facelift for the millennium after municipal elections in November. The Islamic movement won a majority on the city council for the first time and the Christian mayor, Ramez Jeraisi, was barely re-elected. Topping the Islamists' agenda was the expansion of a mosque and the creation of an Islamic studies centre next to the church, on a spot where city planners had hoped to build a Venetian-style plaza for tourists. The dispute is in court and the plaza construction on hold. Currently a small mosque occupies the far edge of the site, where a revered Muslim scholar known as Shabeldin is buried. Yesterday the scholar's name was spray-painted across an ancient well where Orthodox Christians believe Mary drew her water and the annunciation took place. The clashes began after midnight mass and continued until the afternoon. Muslims claimed that after mass, a few Christian men threw rocks and empty bottles at their protest tent. Christians said they were attacked first.  Muslims complained that funding for the year 2000 is only serving the interests of the city's Christians. 
