christianity
{  
    January 25 2020 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/schools-rugby/munster-schools-senior-cup-squads-38893111.html }
MANAGEMENT: Robbie Burke (Head Coach), Joey Conway, Tony Cusack, Jack O'Donnell, Darragh Kennedy (Physio), Will Hughes (S&C), Enda Gavigan (Manager). LAST YEAR: Beaten by CBC (48-12) in semi-final. SQUAD: *Feidhlim Barry, Ronan Carew, Cian Casey, *Eoghan Collins, *Rory Desmond, *Darragh Dineen, Killian Dineen, Harry Frost, *James Horrigan, Alex Keyes, *Ian Leonard, *Alex Long, Ben McEnery, *John Moloney (Captain), *Josh Moore, Cillian O'Brien, *Alex O'Halloran, *Loughlin O'Keefe, *Cian O'Reilly, Oran O'Reilly, Eoghan Ryan, David Smith, *Jack Ward Murphy, *James White, Damien Keogh, David O'Loughlin, Steven Mitchell, Colin Kelly, *Paddy Hassett, Darragh Shine, Adam Kennedy, Peadar Talbot.  Much like Gonzaga and Kilkenny in Leinster, like Glenstal across town and Bandon down the way, Ardscoil Rís hover.  And much like St Michael's in the metropolis, they continue to churn out talent to the professional game, with the Fitzgerald brothers - Stephen and Conor - the latest off that rich North Circular Road assembly line. It is a remarkable achievement, given the success of hurling running parallel at this thriving north city Limerick school. Obviously, I'm not privy to the internal politics involved in relation to what boys play where and when, but my own experience, not with hurling I might add, is that however noble the aspiration of running parallel team games is, it is rife with problems that I don't need to elaborate on.  To the enormous credit of the staff and coaches involved, the recent record in Harty and Munster rugby cups is extraordinary given the clear and obvious demand on players, as inevitably there is a number who shine at both codes. Having made it through to the last four again in 2019, returning head coach and former ASR pupil Robbie Burke picks from a squad that includes 15 back from last year's extended panel.  UL Bohs teammate Joey Conway is again alongside him as forward coach. Shannon player Jack O'Donnell has come on board to develop the backs.  John Moloney will captain the side and it includes three players on the Munster radar in Paddy Hassett at under-17s alongside winger Killian Dineen and hugely promising flanker Jack Ward Murphy, both of whom have represented the province at under-19s, with Ward Murphy also a member of the victorious Ireland Schools Sevens team in Poland in 2019. They were beaten finalists in 1996, 2014 and 2015, but if the class of 2020 are to take it that big step further then they are going to have to do it the long way.  The new format sees ASR paired with 2018 winners Glenstal in one of two preliminary ties. These preliminary pairings come on the back of pre-Christmas round-robin results. ASR finished fifth of five in a pool (Group A) that included a club select side (CSP). Defeats to Castletroy (22-16), PBC (21-8), Bandon (12-8) and CSP (31-29) paved the way for this preliminary tie now, whereby the school finishing fifth in Group B (Glenstal) will provide the opposition. The first round of preliminary matches in the competition will take place this coming week, beginning on Monday.  I think it's fair to say that both schools are some way short of the standards set between 2014 and 2018, so in a sense this is a cup final in itself, with Ardscoil the marginal favourites to advance to the second-round proper. MANAGEMENT: Andre Human (DOR), Denis Collins, James Collins, Philip Murphy, Adam Doyle (S&C), Scott Gibson (Physio), George Bradfield (Manager).  LAST YEAR: Beaten by PBC (19-18) in semi-final. SQUAD: *Christopher Coomey (Captain), *Nick Greene, *James O'Donovan, *Brian O'Donnell, *Dirk-Jan Bakker, *Neil Barrett, *Dáithí Collis, *Craig Bateman, *Harry Golden, Josh D'Alton, Jack Appelbe, Thomas Blennerhassett, Alan Blair, Jerry Coughlan, Jack Walsh, Chris Walton, Tom Good, Ian Akabogu, Jason Mayji, Conor Ahern, Louis Archer, Jack Kevane, Liam McCarthy, Adam Murphy, Louis McVitty, Niall Burke, Kyle Buttimer, David Hall, David Harte, Christian Hurley, Brian McSweeney, Eoin Nash, Ben O'Regan.  To suggest Bandon Grammar are now a regular rival to fellow Cork big guns PBC and CBC might be applying too much heat. That said, there is no doubt but that Cork's big city two have a very real and now consistently formidable rival on their doorstep. The seeds sown by Regis Sonnes (now working his magic at Toulouse in the Top 14 and Champions Cup) have been nurtured even further still by Andre Human.  The South African continues as Director of Rugby for a second year and again with former head coach Denis Collins, James Collins and Philip Murphy as his backroom team.  Last year Bandon Grammar reached the semi-final for the third time before losing narrowly to local rival Pres (PBC) by the odd point in 37 (19-18), with the winning score coming in the dying minutes of that game.  Many players on that team, specifically Bruce Matthews, Soren Minihane, Jason Connelly, Niall Beamish, Tony Beare and John Beamish, have already gone on to play senior rugby while Jack Crowley, who was captain, has been selected on the Irish under-20 squad for the current season.  Another recent past pupil James French (class of 2017) is back training with Munster after a long layoff following injury with Ireland at the 2018 under-20 World Cup. Christopher Coomey is captain to this year's SCT and is one of nine back from the 2019 squad that went so close.  Back rowers Nick Greene (openside flank) and James O'Donovan (No 8) were on the Munster Schools team (under-18s) who achieved a notable victory over Leinster in the schools' interprovincial series back in August before eventually losing out to the reigning champions on points difference.  Both Greene and O'Donovan have been called up to the Irish schools training camps this year, with Greene included in the most recent squad named by coach Simon Broughton for training ahead of the Six Nations under-18 Festival at Marcoussis, the French high performance base, from April 4 to 12. Louis Archer, Liam McCarthy, Jeff Williams and Jack Kevane have all been involved with the Munster under-17 training squads pre-season. Liam McCarthy's brother, Dave, is a former Munster and Ireland under-20 now playing AIL Division 1A rugby with Garryowen. As well as rugby, both Liam and Dave play Gaelic football with the Castlehaven club.  With the new cup format, Bandon qualified from Group A to contest the second round, where they will meet the winners of Rockwell and High School Clonmel.  It was a mixed bag of pre-Christmas cup results, losing out to Pres (38-0), to CSP (38-12) and to Castletroy (18-7) but coming out on top (12-8) against Ardscoil in early November to avoid a play-off place in the preliminaries.  As with ASR and Glenstal, the preliminary play-off (most likely against Rockwell) will represent a final of sorts, with anything beyond that a bonus for 2020.  MANAGEMENT: Tommy Crowe, David Lee, Darragh McNamara, Johnny Waterman, Paul Giltinan, Ian Dunne, John O'Sullivan (Physio), Steven Lynch, Dr Larrie Martin. LAST YEAR: Winners.  SQUAD: Eoin O'Donnell, Louis Healy, Dermot Cremin, Edward O'Mathuna, *Bobby Kahn, Andrew O'Mahony, Matheiu Stapleton, Alan McDonald, Ryan Smith, Jason Aherne, Wanfred Waterman, *Conor Lavin, *Sean Rall, *Robbie Kelleher, James Morrison, Dylan O'Connor, Patrick McBarron, Colm Creedon, Luke McAuliffe, Andrew Treacy, *Finn Mac Fhlannchadha (Captain), Corey Hanlon, Niall Fitzgerald, David Shanahan, *Ronan O'Sullivan, Gavin Kennelly, *Alex O'Regan, James Murray, Mark Ludgate, Victor Ugwah, David Grace, *Mark O'Connor, Robbie Shalloe, Eoin Birchall, Ronan Blackton, *Aaron Leahy, Kalem Cashman, Sean Coombes, Jack McGrath, Shane Buckley, Marcus Corcoran, Jack Morehead, Tom McCarthy, *Johnny Murphy, *Cian Whooley, Patrick O'Leary, Eoghan Sheehan, Euan Gallagher, *Patrick O'Hara, *George Coomber, Luke O'Donovan, *James Moylan, *Jack Ryan, Harry McHenry, *David Keily.    That precious two-point victory in last year's all-Cork decider meant a 13th outright senior title success for CBC, but perhaps even more relevant than that, it edged them back into the roll of honour lead, one outright win ahead of Pres and four clear of Rockwell. With three final appearances and two more wins (2016 and 2019), CBC have been the form school in Munster of late.  Add to that another Junior Cup success when beating Crescent 21-19 in 2017 and now, with that under-16 squad, the signs are of another assault coming up over the next few weeks.  Since 2010, the Sidney Hill school has contested six Junior finals, winning three. Building that platform almost ensures a tilt at the top trophy when that time comes around.  To that end, Tommy Crowe selects from a mighty squad including no fewer than 13 of the JCT Cup-winning 23 in 2017.  George Coomber, Patrick O'Hara, Aaron Leahy, Cian Whooley, Robbie Shalloe, Mark O'Connor, Alex O'Regan, Sean Rall, Robbie Kelleher, Finn Mac Fhlannchadha, Ronan O'Sullivan, Bobby Kahn and Conor Lavin are still on board, three years on. Indeed Leahy, Whooley, O'Connor and O'Sullivan added senior medals to that haul back in March.  Harry O'Riordan was captain of that successful cup-winning side at under-16 level but is no longer available, and so leadership responsibility has shifted to Mac Fhlannchadha.  In a squad littered with representative players, some 14 now involved have lined out for the province at under-17, 18 or 19 level with four of those players - Luke McAuliffe, Shane Buckley and George Coomber (under-18s) plus Aaron Leahy (under-19s) wearing the green of Ireland. Buckley was also skipper to the Munster under-18s in 2019.  Drawn in Group B of the Munster Senior Cup, everything has gone to plan in the pre-Christmas phase of the competition, with four wins from four culminating in a top qualifying place. Wins over Crescent (10-7), Rockwell (22-14), Glenstal (46-0) and St Munchin's (19-11) see the reigning champions in pole position ahead of that attempted title defence.  The Brother O'Reilly Charity Cup was taken by Pres (14-5) despite the mid-December match being played in Lansdowne this time. To counter-balance that defeat, an eight-point (albeit friendly) win over Leinster Cup holders St Michael's augurs well for what lies ahead.  Finishing top of Group B with four wins from four sets up an opening defence of that hard-won 2019 title against a more-than-useful Castletroy side (second to PBC in Group A given that the CSP selected team don't qualify) in the second round.  The winner of that tie will enter the semi-final, giving the loser a second shot at making the last four in a quarter-final play-off. It sounds complicated but the bottom line sees every competing school playing more competitive matches than ever before.  Crowe's charges will be in the mix once again. MANAGEMENT: Darragh Frawley, Nathan Randles, Niall O'Shea, Brendan Colleran (S&C), Hillary Cleary (S&C), Paul Harmon (S&C), Bernard King (Manager), Dr Matt Kiely and Rory O'Donnell (Physio).  LAST YEAR: Beaten by Ardscoil (45-17) in quarter-final.  SQUAD: *Jason McCormack, *Robert Magill, *Nesta Nyamakazi, *Paddy Hoen Quinn, *Dean McGinn, *Sam Den Dinken, *John Moloney, *David Mulldowney, *Stewart Bradshaw, *Dylan McMahon, *Sean Quirke, *Jamie McNamara, *Paul O'Shea, *John Toland, *Brian Murphy, *Mark Lyons, *Michael O'Hanrahan (Captain, pictured below right), *Jason Aylward, *Sam Hanrahan, *James Lammond, *Cian Mulkern, *Evan O'Halloran, *Louis Cunneen, Hugh Brady, *Rory Murphy, Alan Sanz, Neil McLoughlin, Declan Aylward, Conor Davies Molloy, Oisin O'Shea, Rhys White, Lee Bennett, Lee Burke, Jack Oliver, Luke Heuston, Aidan Walters, Cillian O'Farrell, Harry Lynch, Adam Cummins, Patrick O'Doherty, Lee Morgan.  Given that I spent some of the best years of my life on the university campus in the immediate vicinity, it is difficult not to have a soft spot for a rugby-playing school that wasn't even a pipe dream back then.  But as history now records, Castletroy didn't just take Munster schools rugby by storm, it rattled it to its core. Not in the competition a wet week and then came that remarkable 2008 double. Little elaboration necessary, other than to say that a new force on the Limerick rugby scene had arrived.  There has been another Junior Cup title taken since (2013) and there will be more again, of that I'm certain.  Founded in 2000 and with both major provincial rugby cups in the locker eight years later, you couldn't make it up.  Bear in mind it took Leinster giants Belvedere a little over 80 years to put together a maiden double, it took Castletroy College just eight.  Diarmuid McCarthy's match-winning try against Christians in Dooradoyle is now legendary, with the Junior win that followed when beating Pres (the other half of the big two) adding the cherry on top. Against that, when the bar is set that high and so early, the element of surprise when meeting the new kids on the block is and has been eroded.  The side has performed well in the league segment of the competition, beating Ardscoil (22-16) and Bandon (18-7) before drawing with PBC, leaving the defeat to CSP (15-3) irrelevant in terms of qualification for the latter stages beyond a preliminary round involvement. Darragh Frawley leads the coaching team and is again assisted by Nathan Randles and Niall O'Shea.  Michael O'Hanrahan is captain to what was a young squad last year and is therefore able to call upon a massive group of 24 players back from the extended senior panel in 2019.  It includes inter-provincial age grade players in second row John Moloney (Munster under-19s), while scrum half Jack Oliver, centre Sam Hanrahan and wing Louis Cunneen have all lined out with the provincial under-18s back in August.  Hanrahan has taken it a stage further and has just been confirmed in the under-18 Ireland Schools squad. John Toland is a son of Old Crescent favourite and former Munster player Brian, while uncle Liam enjoyed a dual representative career with Munster and Leinster.  He captained the latter in his time at Lansdowne in the early-to-mid 90s. Jack Oliver is a son of former Scottish scrum-half and ex-Garryowen coach Greig, who is now Elite Development Officer with Munster Rugby. Paul O'Shea is a cousin of former St Munchin's, Shannon, Munster and Ireland hooker Jerry Flannery.  The follow-on from the pre-Christmas Group is a round-robin which hasn't been kind, as it has delivered runaway winners of Group B, CBC, first up, but with a back-door option should Castletroy finish second to Christians.  Against all the odds, they pulled it off in 2008. Who would dare suggest they might be incapable of doing the same again now? MANAGEMENT: Ed Barry (Head Coach), Matt Brown, Lee Nicholas, Calum McGrath (S&C).  LAST YEAR: Beaten by CBC (21-19) in quarter final.  SQUAD: *Luke Burke, Eoghan Cantillon Mann, *Darragh Casserly, Ben Cosgrove, *Ben Davey, *Patrick Dolphin, David Doyle, Jamie Duggan, Darragh Fenton, *Joshua Fitzgerald, Desmond Fitzgerald, Conall Henchy, Aodhan Herbert, *Sean Malone, *James McKeogh, David Murphy, Dean O'Grady, Darragh O'Shea, *Ben O'Sullivan, Ethan O'Sullivan, *Tony O'Sullivan, Eoghan Quinn, *Joseph Rickard, *Barry Scott (Captain), Jamie Cross, Tom Barry, David Rickard, Glen Kelly, Luke Moloney, Aaron O'Sullivan, Dylan Scanlon, Elvis Duruji, Ruadhan Quinn, Max Clein, Sean Donnarumma, Jack Madden, Cathal Joy, Barry Moore, Cian Hanrahan, Oliver Novak, Dara Spillane.  With seven finals at Junior and three at Senior in the last decade, embracing Junior titles in 2010, 2011 and 2016 followed by Seniors in 2013 and 2014, Crescent have led the way in representing Limerick schools against the traditional strength and might of Christians, Pres and Rockwell.  Seven finals out of 10 at under-16s between 2010 and 2019 indicates a school that has got its priorities right.  St Munchin's and Rockwell have bucked that trend in the last two years and that is good for the game, but credit Crescent and CBC for the manner in which they had dominated the decade at JCT level up to that, with one or other featuring in every final between 2010 and 2018 inclusive. For the respective SCT squads preparing now for this campaign, 2017 and a last minute victory in the Junior Cup (21-19) for Christians is fresh in every player's mind.  A George Coomber conversion with the last kick of the game broke Crescent hearts and made it a long and painful journey back to Dooradoyle.  Ben Davey, Tony O'Sullivan, Darragh O'Shea, Ethan O'Sullivan, Jamie Cross, Ben O'Sullivan, David Doyle, Sean Malone, David Rickard, James McKeogh and Barry Scott played in that game and all are back on board, with 'go to' player Scott the influential skipper as the squad of 2020 looks to make up for that bitter disappointment three years on. Rickard and Ben O'Sullivan are other key leaders up front while Davey, Tony O'Sullivan and Darragh Casserly provide the sensible direction behind.  So with 11 back from that 2017 JCT, and indeed the same number from last year's senior squad - again beaten by CBC and by the same agonising scoreline (21-19) in the quarter-final - they will not lack for motivation in this upcoming competition.  Ed Barry is again head coach to a squad which includes representative players in Casserly, Jamie Duggan, Rickard and Dean O'Grady.  The changed cup format has made for a much more competitive opening term, with Crescent taking the first significant piece of silverware courtesy of the Limerick City Cup when beating Ardscoil in the mid-term final.  The newly designed cup group format has gone pretty well too, with victories over Glenstal (22-5), St Munchin's (22-7) a low-scoring draw with Rockwell (3-3) and a solitary defeat to (yes, you guessed it) CBC (10-7).   All of which means a place against PBC in the first qualifier quarter-final. Scant reward for a good campaign, but with it the guarantee of a second bite at the cherry should they lose out in that game.  Either way Crescent look very much the squad best placed to challenge the Cork Old Firm domination this time around.  MANAGEMENT: Tom Hayes (Head Coach), Ben Swindlehurst, Billy Gray, Lukasz Kirszenstein (S&C), Felix Ross (Manager). LAST YEAR: Beaten by Bandon (31-14) in quarter-final. SQUAD: *Aidan Booth (Captain), Michael Buckley, *Daragh Butler, *Matthew Cannon, Stefan Caulfield Dreier, Timmy Connolly, Nicholas Cunningham Ash, *Max Downing, *Peter Fahy, *Taylor Gleeson, *Darragh Hanley, Denis Hayes, Dermot Hughes, *Donagh Hyland, Patrick Johnson, Art Keane, Josh Kennedy, *Seamus Kerrisk, Ian Larkin, Ivor Larkin, Charlie McCarten, Robert McNamara, *Angus McDonald, Tim Murphy, Alex O'Dwyer Gough, Iarlaith Reilly, Conor O'Shea, Tom Rooney, James Shields, Ben Shippam, Harry Swan, John Walsh, *William Twomey, *Ruairi Woodcock.  With due respect to Fr Peter, to Barnaby O'Sullivan, to Billy Gabbett and the breakthrough class of 1970 (beaten in a replay by Rockwell), 2017 and 2018 have become the golden years of Glenstal rugby. Many Murroe teams have threatened over time but under the leadership of John Skehan and Tom Hayes, the multi-talented squad of 2017/18 delivered back-to-back finals, with the journey to the Holy Grail completed at Independent Park on St Patrick's Day 2018. Ben Healy, George Downing, Conor Booth, Mark Fleming, Ronan Quinn, Andrew Hogan, Caolan Dooley and the rest will be etched in Glenstal history forever and a day, irrespective of what follows in the years to come  It was a special time in which Skehan and Hayes raised the bar to unprecedented heights. Fr Peter Gilfedder planted the seeds - literally (the main pitch was his pride and joy) and metaphorically upon his arrival in the mid-50s.  He was an extraordinary man to know and work with. If any one individual epitomised the resilience and never-say-die spirit that carried Glenstal rugby through many lean times, Fr Peter was that person. The flip side of that 17/18 coin is the pressure now on teams representing the school to deliver. Given the numbers game, it is an unfair burden but it comes with the territory now and making it to the top has to be the goal.  Ex-St Michael's pupil and former Garryowen coach Skehan has moved back to Dublin where he is now head coach at Terenure, with Tom Hayes moving up from assistant to main man at Glenstal. The former Shannon and Exeter Chiefs player (brother of Bruff, Shannon, Munster and Ireland legend John) is very much a local and carries out his new-found responsibilities with great pride.  He is in charge of a squad for the upcoming campaign that includes 12 back from last year and is captained by Aidan Booth. Included are Munster under-19 representatives in centre Will Twomey and prop Donagh Hyland, while Harry Swan is the son of ex-jockey and racehorse training legend Charlie Swan.  Booth leads a particularly young squad with a large number of Juniors making the step up straight away to Senior. It is a big ask.  That said, the new cup format has enabled this inexperienced group to get a taste for Senior competitive fare early in the top-end cycle.  Apart from a heavy defeat to CBC (45-0) they have been ultra-competitive, despite losing to Crescent (22-5), Rockwell (20-8) and St Munchin's (21-14). The bottom line sees a first-round preliminary clash with cross-city rivals Ardscoil Rís. Between them they have contested four of the six most recent finals, which is an exceptional achievement in itself.   A final in all but name. Whatever else, motivation will not be in short supply, with the north city school the pre-match favourites to edge it for round two.  MANAGEMENT: Brendan Mullan, Jean Lonergan, Conor Cooney, Donal Foote, PJ Mulcahy and Aidan Bradshaw.  LAST YEAR: Beaten by Bandon Grammar (67-0) in first round. SQUAD: *Cian Walsh (Captain), *Michael Dillon, *Conall Ryan, *Liam Ryan, Kian Lonergan, *Cormac McNamara, *Josh Dolan, Oran Ryan, Tim Nugent, Killian O'Keefe, Taine Waters, Shane Ryan, Rian McCormack, *Jack O'Loughlin, James Morris, *Michael O'Donnell, *Zac Cahalane, *Aidan Hickey, Emre Yasar, Lekan Oki, *John Askins, Ross Slattery, Chris Ryan, Brandon Delicato, Rowen McDonald, Dylan Olney, *Eoghan Ryan, Jack Mulcahy, Stephen O'Leary and *Thomas Shanahan. For the second year running High School CBS have made it through to the main event. As a non-Section A school, that in itself is a significant achievement.  To get to this stage (where they confront the juggernaut that is 26-time winners Rockwell College in the knock-out Senior cup (first round), the Tipperary school accounted for Colaiste Choilm, Ballincollig (31-14) in round one, Colaiste Pobail, Bantry (36-12) in round two and St Clement's College, Limerick (24-10) in round three of the mid-ranking tournament.  Last year represented the big breakthrough and with it the sobering experience of rising standards when coming up against a particularly strong Bandon Grammar unit in the first Round of the Senior Cup competition.  The hope for Brendan Mullan and his coaching staff, all affiliated to Clonmel RFC, is that they will have learned and grown from that experience. To that end, Cian Walsh is captain for the 2020 campaign and one of 13 back from last year's ground-breaking extended squad.  The East Munster under-16 back-rower will lead a group that includes Munster under-17 squad member Oran Ryan (No 8) plus Munster under-16 back three player Zac Cahalane.  Flanker Kian Lonergan, prop Tim Nugent, scrum-half Ross Slattery, flanker/hooker Brandon Delicato and wing/centre Rowen McDonald are members of the Tipperary County under-17 rugby squad, while outhalf James Morris, who is another member of the under-17 rugby squad, is also on the county football panel at that age level.  Winger Lekan Oki lines out with Waterford United at under-17 level. In addition to Clonmel RFC, many of the current CBS squad are attached to Moyle Rovers GAA club, the exceptions being Morris and Slattery, with Clonmel Commercials/St Mary's GAA and out-half/centre Jack O'Loughlin with Kilsheelan Kilcash GAA. The experience gained in making it to this level two years running cannot be understated and for that, immense credit goes to Brendan Mullan, Jean Lonergan and the rest of the hugely enthusiastic backroom team.  MANAGEMENT: Kevin Leamy (Head Coach), Eamonn Connolly, Shaun McCarthy, Shane Moloney, Padraig O'Connor (S&C) and Leanne Fogarty (Physio). LAST YEAR: Beaten by PBC (31-9) in quarter-final.  SQUAD: *Alan Flannery (Captain), *Dylan Foley, Matthew Burke, *Cathal Ryan, *Jack Heffernan, Jamie Browne, Cian Meaney, Remi Ediale, Brian Molloy, Ethan Casey, Charles Shanahan, *Dean Fanning, Eddie Dunphy, *Kevin Grogan, *Luke Fogarty, *Brian O'Dea, Mikey Bergin, Cathal Kelly, Liam Shine, *Richie Anglim, Tom Downey, Shane Neville, *John O'Sullivan, *Adam Maher, Oisin Fagan, *Josh O'Dwyer, *Tom Tobin, *Peter Wall, *Sam Tarleton, Karl Dawson, *Michael Mulligan, *Ben McCarthy, *Sean Allison, David Achimugu, Darius Achimugu, Henry Buttimer, Robert Wall, Tom Ross, Rory Collins and Ben Farrelly.  Over a 60-year period between 1910 and 1970, the Senior Cup made its way back to Cashel on 21 occasions. To put that in a modern-day perspective, both PBC with 16 and CBC with 13 senior titles trailed the Blackrock College equivalent in Munster rugby over that comparable stretch of time.  Over the next three decades just a single success was to follow and that came in 1985 when Conor Slattery captained the Tipperary school to an isolated Senior Cup win over CBC.  Between 1970 and 2000 Christians, Pres and Crescent divvied out 29 of the 30 titles between them - the only interloper being St Munchin's in '82 when Pat Murray and Paul 'Moose' Culhane shared the captaincy.  However, since the new millennium, and particularly in the last decade, at Senior level Rockwell have rejoined the Cork two and Crescent as a consistent force and challenger for the biggest underage trophy on a near-annual basis.  In that time they have contested eight more finals, winning four, the last in 2015.  And with the 2019 JCT returning to the winning podium for the first time in 22 years (another extraordinary statistic) the resurrection in the Leamy brother era - Kevin and Denis - has been marked.  Along with Eamon Connolly and Mark Butler before, this quartet have resurrected the definitive sleeping giant.  Many of that Junior Cup-winning squad last March (23-12 victors over Munchin's) are taking small steps at Senior. The pre-Christmas Group B pool produced a win (over Glenstal 20-8) a draw (with Crescent 3-3) and defeats to Munchin's (23-20) and CBC (22-14).  With Alan Flannery the captain, and a squad including some 18 back from last year, this smacks of a group well capable of competing in the high-level games to come.  Finishing fourth in that group brings High School Clonmel into view in the first preliminary round. It makes for a unique all-Tipp clash in which the 26-time winners will be red-hot favourites. A win first time out and it will be Bandon Grammar providing the opposition for a place in the semi-final.  They'll not take anything for granted but the route to a place in the final four appears manageable. Kevin Leamy is again head coach, with Flannery the captain and Munster under-19 centre alongside scrum-half and Munster under-19 teammate John O'Sullivan.  The season's form to date shows an even split between games won and lost. That is about right for a young squad that could still conceivably make it through to the semi-final this time around.  MANAGEMENT: Ger Burke (Head Coach), Don Buckey, Cian Bohane, Enda O'Regan (S&C), Marian Carey (S&C) and Ian Lehane (Manager). LAST YEAR: Beaten by CBC (5-3) in final.  SQUAD: Patrick Campbell, *Ben Comiskey, Keelan Cronin, Mark Deane, Ivor Dennehy, Daniel Desmond, Zach Dinan, *Richie Foley, Bevan Forde, *John Forde, *Darragh French, Tom Gough, Conall Harrington, Douglas Healy, Jeff Holden, *Daniel Hurley, Peter Hyland, *Jack Kelleher, *Alex Kendellen, James Keohane, Billy Kiernan, Billy Kingston, Ross McAuliffe, David McCarthy, James McCarthy, Sean McLoughlin, *Darragh McSweeney, Adam O'Brien, Jacob O'Brien, Hugh O'Callaghan, Ciaran O'Connor, Luke O'Connor, David O'Halloran, Max O'Leary, Liam Ormond, Sam O'Sullivan, *Daniel Squires, Alex Walsh, Brian Anthony, Cian Desmond, Rob O'Brien and Niall Smith. A QUICK glance at the two tables shows CBC and PBC on top, with clear daylight between the Cork giants and the rest.  At the moment Christians top the roll of honour by one (30-29) courtesy of last year's low-scoring final win.  Interestingly, since 2007 neither Cork giant has put together successive wins.  The pressure is on Pres to ensure they square it up with 30 apiece at the top of the ladder. Crescent, Castletroy and one or two others to have a say about that. Certainly for Pres, the incentive is great. They have already been to Lansdowne (Christians' patch) and taken the Brother O'Reilly Charity Cup back to the Mardyke on a 14-5 scoreline, by way of tries from centre Peter Hyland and man-of-the-match prop Darragh McSweeney.  Former St Munchin's player Ger Burke takes over from Paul Barr as head coach, with Don Buckley and former Munster player Cian Bohane as his assistants.  The team qualified from Group A in pole position following a scoreless draw (in horrendous conditions) with Castletroy and wins over CSP (28-17), ASR (21-8) and Bandon Grammar (38-0). Sam O'Sullivan, Alex Kendellen, Adam O'Brien, Daniel Hurley, Liam Ormond and Patrick Campbell were the standout players in this preliminary phase of the cup.  Topping the group opens the way to a difficult clash with Crescent Comp, but with a safety net for the loser in the guise of a second bite at the quarter-final.  Burke has the luxury of picking from a squad that includes seven - McSweeney, David McCarthy, Jack Kelleher, John Forde, Kendellen, Darragh French and Daniel Hurley - back from last year's finalists.  It is a squad top-heavy with Munster representative players at under-18 and/or under-19. These include O'Sullivan, McSweeney, Kendellen, Hurley and French at under-18 level plus Forde, Kelleher and Billy Kingston at under-19s. Darragh French has made the Irish under-18s squad and is a brother of Sean, who was a 2017 cup winner with Pres.  Daniel Hurley, who is also an Irish sprinter and long jumper, has made the under-18 Ireland squad while Alex Kendellen was captain of the Irish schools under-18 squad in 2018 as well as making the Irish sevens squad.  McSweeney is nailed on at tight head for the Irish Schools and Club squads just recently named, with Sam O'Sullivan on standby for that same squad.  Sam is a brother of Pres cup-winning captain in 2018 Jack O'Sullivan, who was a key member of the Ireland under-20 Grand Slam-winning squad and a back-row forward on his way to the very top at Munster.  Patrick Campbell is a particularly talented sportsman having already won an All-Ireland minor medal playing at centre forward with the Cork minor footballers in 2018, while Billy Kiernan is a nephew of Michael and Alex Walsh is the son of Brian, the former Cork Con and Munster player and coach. It is a squad steeped in rugby DNA and one well capable of going the whole way. What odds on a repeat of 2019? That has not happened since 1976 to 1981 when the Cork old firm met in six successive finals. Either way they are still the two to beat.  MANAGEMENT: Ger Slattery (Head Coach), Andrew O'Byrne, Pat Cross, Alan Kennedy (S&C), Eoin O'Brien (Manager). LAST YEAR: Beaten by Rockwell (36-5) in first round. SQUAD: Kieran Ryan, Nathan Walsh, *Craig Finn (pictured below left), *Louis McCormack, Graham Kirwan, *Joachim Clohessy, Evan Hickey, *Liam Neilan, *Donnachadh O'Callaghan, *Alexander Wood, James O'Brien, *Darragh Long, Shea McCarthy Burbage, Josh Costelloe, *Josh Egan, *Jack Devanny, *Kean Sheehy, Stephen Hayes, Johnny Kelly, Gus Harrington, Sean Nestor, Kieran Tracey, Conor O'Brien, Denis Birmingham, *Daragh McDermott, *Conor O'Shaughnessy, *Darragh Slattery, David O'Regan, Diarmuid de Barra, Joey Ryall, Morgan Bateman, Scott Quilligan, Shane Griffin, Ian Thomas Cunningham, Mikey Kelly, Conor O'Brien. Former Young Munster, Munster and Ireland Clubs hooker Ger Slattery takes up the reins as head coach to a squad on the move.  It may be a year too early for the potential of this JCT-winning group from 2018 to fully materialise. The former Munchin's pupil, now teacher at the Corbally school, was head coach to the under-16 finalists for the last two years (losing to Rockwell in 2019).  However, more than that he is one of only five SCT captains to lead the school to the Munster Senior cup. That elite list contains Larry Moloney in 1968, Pat Murray (1982), Michael Carroll (2002), Fergus Walsh (2004) and the new head coach himself in 2006 when leading from the front in every possible way as Munchin's pipped Pres (7-3) for the last outright success of the five to date.  There has been one final appearance since, that was in 2012 when the Lee Nicholas-led team, including all three Ryan triplets (sons of former Young Munster legend Ray) lined out with Evan at tight head, Gavin a chip off the old block in the second row and Darren on the flank. That Junior Cup win was the first since 1998 and back then it paved the way for successive Senior Cup final appearances in 2001 and 2002, the latter culminating in a fourth cup success when pipping Pres (20-19).  Hopes are high that 2020 and '21 might lead to a similar scenario. The class of '20 is led by captain and scrum-half Donnachadh O'Callaghan alongside Alexander Wood, son of Keith (known to appear at first receiver in his time), scorer of that memorable cup-winning try to beat Christians in 2018.  It is a young squad (with 13 back from last year) although already the McCarthy Cup (beating Crescent 40-17) and the Herbert-Conneely Memorial trophy are in the locker having beaten the same opposition (11-7) in the pre-Christmas charity match.  The Limerick City Cup saw convincing wins over Rockwell and Castletroy before losing narrowly to Ardscoil in the semi-final. Current Young Munster skipper Alan Kennedy (S&C) as well as Garryowen's Andrew O'Byrne (backs coach), plus a certain Pat Cross (skills coach), form the backroom staff with the main man also coach to Young Munster in Division 1A of the All-Ireland League. Munchin's were drawn in the more difficult Group B round-robin pool where they finished with an even split, beating Rockwell (23-20) and Glenstal (21-14) while losing to Crescent (22-7) and CBC (19-11). It makes for a second round QF/SF qualifier against either Glenstal or Ardscoil.  Munster under-18 scrum-half O'Callaghan leads a squad laden with representative players, with 11 of this year's panel having already worn the Munster red at under-17, 18 or 19 level.  James O' Brien, John Costelloe, Kean Sheehy, Stephen Hayes, Gus Harrington and Conor O'Shaughnessy have all been involved at under-17 with Kieran Ryan, Liam Neilan, O'Callaghan, Wood, Sheehy and O'Shaughnessy at under-18, and Craig Finn at under-19.  It is a young squad but equally a talented one too. This is a group more than capable of rattling a few highly-fancied cages in the coming weeks. Irish Independent 
