christianity
{ Kim Senguptain Baghdad 
    October 11 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/christians-flee-after-muslim-extremists-kill-110-25892439.html }
THE murder of seven Christian men has made Baghdad's dwindling Christian community feel even more vulnerable at a time when more than 45,000 have fled a growing tide of sectarian violence. The murders were the latest deadly attack on Iraq's Christians, a systematic and brutal campaign by Islamic extremists which began soon after the 'liberation' by the US and Britain. So far 110 have been killed. In August four churches in Baghdad and one in Mosul were blown up in a co-ordinated series of car bombings, killing 12 people and injuring 61 others. In September another Baghdad church was bombed. There had also been as well as mortar attacks on community centres and shootings of Christian shopkeepers and kidnappings of businessmen for extortion. The result had been a flow of Christians - mostly middle-class, members of the intelligentsia and entrepreneurs - out of the country, with a marked acceleration in the last few months. Around 45,000 have gone so far out of a community estimated to be between 600,000 and 700,000. Pascale Warda, Minister for Displacement and Migration in the Iraqi interim government, who is herself a Christian, says there is no chance of the trend being reversed while the attacks continue. The Christians in Iraq faced little religious persecution under the secular regime of Saddam Hussein, the community suffering, instead, the same oppression as the rest of the country without being specifically targeted. Senior members of the Ba'ath, including Tariq Aziz, were Christians. Now, they say, they receive scant protection from the US and British military in the face of the onslaught. The national security adviser to the Iraqi interim government, Mowaffaq al-Rubaie, blames the church bombings on followers of Jordanian-born Sunni militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Iraqi police, on the other hand, say fighters of Muqtada al-Sadr's Mehdi Army could be responsible for those and other sectarian attacks. Whatever the truth, hardly anyone has been arrested. (© Independent News Service) 
