christianity
{ Letters to the Editor 
    June 12 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/letters-to-the-editor-time-for-second-referendum-you-know-it-makes-sense-38210977.html }
The only way to solve the current impasse that the UK has managed to trap itself in is to go to the country a second time and ask the electorate to choose between WTO Brexit or Remain. A crash-out is not what all Brexiteers voted for in June 2016, they voted to exit the European Union on their terms, ie. they wanted to retain the benefits of being married to the EU and they also wanted to gain the benefits of being completely independent of the EU, without the drawbacks of either.  The UK electorate was sold a fantasy by various groups of people who simply did not care, and David Cameron bears full responsibility for giving these groups of people their big chance.  Furthermore, Britain as an EU member enjoys free trade arrangements with 70 countries worldwide.  A second referendum is necessary to clear the air for the next heir to Number 10.  As Del Boy Trotter in the 1980s sitcom ‘Only Fools and Horses’ would say, “You know it makes sense.”  Kieran O’Regan Santry, Dublin Taoiseach was right not to give in to Trump’s big ego As an American visiting Ireland, I was puzzled and surprised to find letter writers to your editorial page comparing Donald Trump’s foreign policy favourably to that pursued by his predecessors, Barack Obama and George W Bush.  Certainly, we Americans generally dislike President Trump for his base racial appeals and his abuse of power to further his own private interests, but these are purely domestic concerns, so I wouldn’t expect the Irish to care too strongly about them. On foreign policy, though, it should be clear to everyone around the world that Trump is not guided by principles, or even America’s interest, but rather by the gratification of his own ego.  He allows himself to be drawn in by flattering strongmen in North Korea and Saudi Arabia and acts with hostility to staunch American allies like Japan and Mexico.  This fickleness does grave damage to America’s image abroad, damage that will not be repaired in years, decades – maybe ever. No, your Taoiseach was smart to keep Trump at arm’s length rather than offer him a state visit.  The fewer countries that give in to his narcissistic demands, the better.  Benjamin Recchie Chicago, USA Intolerant churches showing lack of LGBT compassion The Vatican document on human gender identity (Irish Independent, June 10) is  further proof that the Christian churches’ continued obsession with sexual issues, and refusal to even consider modern scientific advances in our understanding of human sexuality, is adding a further nail in the coffin of contemporary Christianity, especially among an open-minded younger generation.  The use of bigoted language to describe our LGBT sisters and brothers, together with a refusal to recognise their inalienable right to married happiness and fulfilment leaves the churches clinging to anti-Christian and intolerant language and practice that I, as a Christian, am extremely ashamed of and I utterly repudiate such inhumanity. It is a grave disservice to Jesus that his good news relevant to the creation of a just society is befogged with intolerance by the Christian churches, who are failing to show the compassionate face of God.  Brendan Butler Malahide, Co Dublin Energy and vision of early female pioneers sorely needed  In 1916, there were some 10,000 deaths from tuberculosis in this country – and  for every death there were an estimated five people who were living with the disease.  Peamount Sanatorium, with almost a thousand beds, was founded in 1900 by Lady Aberdeen, wife of the last Irish viceroy, supported by voluntary contributions from Ireland and the United States and dedicated in trust to the Irish people.  The fight against TB was continued by Dr Dorothy Stopford Price and the others at Saint Ultan’s Hospital and the Department of Health.  Considering female doctors were a minority, they were disproportionately represented in this campaign.  The current drug epidemic is of a similar magnitude, but unfortunately we do not have a magic bullet (the BCG was introduced in 1930). Does anyone have the energy and vision of the early female pioneers to address this, or are we just to continue to ignore the problem? Dr Michael Foley Rathmines, Dublin 6 Irish Independent 
