christianity
{ Ronan Mullen 
    June 04 2017 05:32 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/secular-bullies-have-done-nuns-and-mothers-a-cruel-disservice-35785994.html }
The words used by the Religious Sisters of Charity last week, as they announced their withdrawal from their own St Vincent's Hospital campus, showed how complete their rout had been. St Vincent's public and private hospitals will be transferred to a charity called 'St Vincent's' but it will be saintly in name only. It will "not be subject to undue influence by individuals or from any source", the Sisters said - meaning undue influence by themselves. The Religious Sisters of Charity Health Service Philosophy and Ethical Code will be replaced by references to "national and international best practice guidelines on medical ethics and the laws of the Republic of Ireland". It is noteworthy, and not a little sad, that on their way out of the door the Sisters could make no defence of the right of Catholic-run healthcare facilities to provide a distinctive product. Much less could they stress that Christian healthcare ethics are at the forefront of best practice. Remember that "international best practice guidelines on medical ethics" frequently involves the abortion of children with disabilities like Down Syndrome and terminations for mental health reasons.  The nuns' hearts were in the right place but there was too much mileage on the clock. Their task now, as everyone knows, is mainly to look after their ageing members.  They were cruelly treated, these women. No acknowledgment of their sterling selfless service was to be allowed until they were banished from the pitch. And there would be no consideration, period, that their vision of inclusive respect for all human life might have much to contribute to modern maternity healthcare.  It seems strange to me that property belonging to a healthcare charity run according to a Christian ethos could now transfer to a charity with a very different set of values. The St Vincent's debacle shows that the loss of human capacity within the religious orders is matched by a decline in human capital on the lay side. Last Monday's collapse is rooted in the failure of the order to do proper succession planning. They failed to identify and train lay, business and medical experts who would understand, value, communicate and, in the critical moment, defend, the right to publicly-funded healthcare with a Christian ethos. They also failed to foresee and forestall the encroaching power of the secular State. He who pays the piper should call the tune to a certain extent. But the Sisters of Charity had established these facilities with resources entrusted to them by people of faith. For many years, the agents of the modern Irish state haven't cared a fig for the contribution of the religious or the tradition out of which these facilities grew. The Sisters failed to spot the danger and to establish appropriate boundaries with the State. And now the Christian ethos of their institutions is gone.  But modern Ireland, if it is to be a harmonious place, needs to respect diversity. A Catholic healthcare facility might have issues with doing sterilisations, IVF, gender reassignment and other elective procedures. So what? The State should not have a problem with funding such hospitals if they provide valuable treatments which the public wants, provided the State can fund other procedures elsewhere, if it wishes. That's just pluralism. But even pluralism seems a concession too far for the secular bullies now transforming Ireland. Much of the recent controversy was stoked on the basis that the Irish people might legalise abortion and that the new hospital wouldn't be able to provide it. I believe abortion won't be legalised and that euthanasia may be the real battleground. With our ageing population, campaigners for 'choice' will be joined by the bean-counters who will deem the cost of healthcare for the elderly to be too high. A gentle Christianity will be needed then, never more so. It shouldn't require Christian ethics to maintain a civilised respect for life in the face of abortion and euthanasia campaigns. But the decline of Christianity has seen the Western world struggle to maintain respect for human life within its laws and systems. Ronan Mullen is an Independent senator representing the National University of Ireland. Sunday Independent 
