christianity
{  
    December 24 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/christmas-is-more-than-just-a-festival-26340829.html }
Gary Byrne is incorrect in comparing Christmas to pagan festivals (Letters, December 21), such as winter solstice, since these merely marked the passage of time; just another step in the progression of the seasons. Christmas, on the other hand, holds the promise of resurrection. People could figure out for themselves that the winter would give way to the spring and summer, that the sun would "die" only to return again but Christianity fulfilled a need for people to believe that their passing from this world would not mark the end but a rebirth to eternal life that would never die. There is a unique joy among people at Christmas because this ancient longing for a saviour who would free them from the corruption of sin and death has come to pass. This is entirely different to marking time. Paul Kokoski is right (Letters, December 19), Christmas without Christ is like playing 'Hamlet' without the prince. What's the point of celebrating if you don't believe? Just wait for the New Year and have the main celebration then, in that case. JAMES HOGAN THURLES, CO TIPPERARY It is a modern fad at Christmas and Easter to propose bizarre new interpretations of established Christian belief. In asserting that the virgin birth of Jesus is not essential Christian doctrine, Anglican Archbishop Rowan Williams is contradicting what has been held universally by orthodox Christians from the very beginning of Christianity. St Ignatius of Antioch, a contemporary of St John stated: "You (Christians) are firmly convinced about our Lord, who is truly of the race of David according to the flesh, Son of God according to the will and power of God, truly born of a virgin." While there is a hierarchy of Christian truths, this does not mean that some truths proclaimed in the Creed can be discarded. The hierarchy of truths refers to a way of ordering the mysteries of the Christian faith in a way that relates them to one another in terms of the foundation of the Christian faith. In regard to Jesus, what is affirmed in the Apostles' Creed and the Nicene Creed holds true forever: He was "born of the Virgin Mary". EAMONN AND PATRICIA KEANE NSW 2126, AUSTRALIA 
