christianity
{ CHARLES LEVINSON 
    August 12 2007 04:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/hezbollah-in-land-grab-as-war-with-israel-looms-26310775.html }
HEZBOLLAH is buying up large tracts of land owned by Christians and other non-Shias in southern Lebanon as the militant group rebuilds its defences in preparation for a new war with Israel. The land grab is thought to be driven by the Iranian-backed guerrillas' efforts to re-arm themselves and fortify the important ravines north of the Litani River. In Lebanon, Hezbollah has been free to press forward from the 13,000 UN peacekeepers and 20,000 Lebanese army troops who were deployed south of the Litani as part of the ceasefire agreement that ended the conflict. Just south of the Litani, the UN is conducting patrols each day in a bid to keep Hezbollah weapons out of the area, but the peacekeepers' mandate ends at the river. The Lebanese army, meanwhile, is about 50 per cent Shia and seems to be turning a blind eye. The group appears to be readying for round two with Israel, and many fear it is not far off after the inconclusive end to last year's war and reports of rearming. The area's forested valleys make ideal terrain for Hezbollah's brand of guerrilla warfare. The Shia encroachment into a mixed area of Christians, Shias and Druze Muslims threatens to disrupt Lebanon's sectarian balance. "Christians and Druze are selling land and moving out, there's an extraordinary demographic shift taking place," Edmund Rizk, a Christian MP for the area until 1992, said. On a sparsely populated ridge, the farming village of Chbail was once Christian. The land now with a wealthy Shia businessman with alleged ties to Hezbollah. Entry to the village is forbidden to outsiders -- not by the Lebanese army that technically holds sway here, but by the plain-clothed, bearded youths who act as look-outs for Hezbollah. "The village is closed for security reasons," said a youth who had recently moved from a Hezbollah-controlled area near the regional capital, Tyre. Like many neighbouring hamlets, Chbail has steadily decayed ever since civil war broke out in 1975. Fleeing first Palestinian guerrillas, then invading Israeli soldiers, and finally Hezbollah, villagers steadily migrated to seek better lives in Beirut or overseas. Recently, at Chbail's outskirts, a rust-coloured Volvo station wagon rolled in, piled high with building beams. On the wadi's western edge, a metal sign strung across a track erased any doubt about what now lies beyond. "Entry forbidden. Hezbollah area," the sign read in Arabic. The closure was manned by a pair of teenage gunmen. The buy-up in Chbail and half a dozen Druze and Christian villages is said to be the work of a wealthy Shia businessman, Ali Tajeddine, who made his fortune trading diamonds in Sierra Leone before returning to Lebanon. Mr Tajeddine keeps a Hezbollah charity box in the waiting room of his Tyre office. He is believed to be a major player in Hezbollah's massive reconstruction programme. During an interview, Mr Tajeddine fidgeted as he denied any connection with Hezbollah. He said his projects at Chbail was just a fraction of the dozens of developments he is building in Lebanon. But his distinctive land-buys in the area has triggered alarm among the district's Christian and Druze leaders, who say he is using Iranian funds to buy land from destitute villagers at up to four times the going rate. Druze sheikhs responded by forbidding the sale of land to Shias, and Christians have been asked to buy property in the area to stem the Shia tide. In Chbail and two neighbouring Christian villages, Mr Tajeddine has already bought 200-300 acres of land, according to the mayor, Kamil Fares. "Shias have moved into apartments belonging to Ali Tajeddine. But we're poor. What can we do?,In the Druze village of Al Sreiri, the mayor, Hafed Kiwane said: "It was good to see money coming into the area, but now we fear there are suspicious motives.,Among the Hezbollah settlements is the new village of Ahmediyya, where a billboard in Hebrew warns Israeli invaders: "Do not enter!,Dozens of housing units have been built here in the past year. A supermarket is open for business, and 10 Shia families have moved in so far. Among them is project foreman Mohammad Atwa. "The rockets of the resistance showed us there was someone to defend us," he said. Critics fear that Ahmediyya will stretch the Shia reach to the north-east, as part of a grand scheme to create a strip of Shia-controlled land connecting the south to Hezbollah's other power centre in Lebanon, the Bekaa Valley. ,© Telegraph 
