christianity
{  
    August 26 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/young-irish-muslims-deny-claims-of-radicalism-26415814.html }
'WITH due respect to Christian people, but when a Christian person goes out and blows somebody up or kills someone, we don't say it's radical Christianity or radicalised Christianism or whatever. We simply say that this a man who has done wrong. Likewise I think people should feel the same when this happens, we should see it as them being terrorists and not blame the religion. DAMIAN STACK 'WITH due respect to Christian people, but when a Christian person goes out and blows somebody up or kills someone, we don't say it's radical Christianity or radicalised Christianism or whatever. We simply say that this a man who has done wrong. Likewise I think people should feel the same when this happens, we should see it as them being terrorists and not blame the religion." So says 23-year-old Irish Muslim Nuara Bazama responding to the question of whether all Muslims share some culpability when it comes to Islamic terrorism. Ireland's 26,000-strong Muslim community has come under increased scrutiny in the aftermath of the air terror plot in Britain. Newspaper reports have indicated there is increasing radicalism amongst young Muslims here. However, the young Muslims the Sunday Independent spoke to reject absolutely any claims that there is a radicalised element in Ireland's Muslim community, or that there are any so-called radical clerics operating here. "There is none of them here in Ireland. We're a very small community, we all know each other and we'd know if something like this was going on," says Bazama. Siraj Ahmed, a 21-year-old student, is critical of the recent comments by one of the country's leading Muslim leaders, Sheikh Dr Shaheed Satardien, about radicalised Muslim youth in Ireland. "I don't know where he's getting that from," he says. "I've been here since 1999 and the people here in the Muslim community are really nice. They're basically trying to keep the culture alive. I don't think there's anything like that [radicalism] happening here at all." Another young Irish Muslim, 19-year-old student Hajar Al Kaddo, says that recent events haven't had a negative effect Irish people's on perceptions of Islam and the Muslim community. "People question me about my religion, for the sake of learning about it. But not in a negative way," she says. Ahmed indicates that sometimes there can be problems, "but not as often as my people might sometimes expect. I think my Irish accent definitely helps me." The wearing of the headscarf by Muslims is an issue, which always seems to generate controversy in the West - some have argued that Muslims living in western societies should refrain from wearing it on the basis that it acts as a barrier to integration. Bazama agrees that it "marks me out as different. The whole point of it is to show my religion, my belief in Allah." But she doesn't agree it could hinder integration. "It's a religious belief and people just need to learn to respect it. I wouldn't make somebody wear it, but don't make me take it off." There is a clear sense of solidarity with Muslims abroad. At the Irish Islamic Cultural Centre in Clonskeagh there are collections for Palestine and Lebanon. "We send over whatever donations we can," says Ahmed. To a practising Muslim, Irish society must seem particularly decadent - with materialism and individualism holding sway. The decadence of British society is often highlighted as one of the factors driving young British Muslims to radicalism. "At times it is offensive and at times it isn't," says Ahmed. "Friends drink and smoke - but when they do I don't go with them. You're not supposed to go where there's drink, but because I'm half-Irish if, say my auntie has a child, I'll go to the Christening celebration - I won't stay long, just show my face. You have to learn to adapt." Bazama agrees that "to some people it [Irish society] would be offensive to their religion. But that's not exclusive to Islam, it could be Christianity or Judaism just as easily." Bazama doesn't agree that pursuing a policy of multiculturalism could lead to segregation - "segregation is not caused by that. Segregation is caused by extremism, Islamophobia etc." According to Bazama, "Irish people understand Islam quite well" and highlights the activities of the Federation of Student Islamic Societies as a good sign. "During Ramadan, the non-Muslim students fast with us to get a sense what it's all about - break the fast together. We have a great time, a great laugh. People come along and they realise 'these people are grand - they're not going to take my head off!'." 
