christianity
{  
    April 16 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ireland-has-become-a-country-fit-for-heathens-warns-archbishop-26389788.html }
Religious Affairs CorrespondentTHE Archbishop of Dublin, Diarmuid Martin, has characterised modern day Ireland as being "in part a land of the heathen". Irish Catholics, he added, were living in "an ambiguous culture" where there was a widening tension between the Christian Gospel and society. In his homily during the Easter Vigil service on Saturday evening in Dublin's Pro-Cathedral, Dr Martin said that the Christian message was encountered in a culture which was inevitably not the culture of the Gospel, even though it may possess many Christian characteristics. Pointing out that this was always the case, Dr Martin said that it was no good looking back to a possible golden age of Irish Catholicism. "That would probably take us very far back into early history, or would only be a question of a very few brief special periods in our history. There is no point harking back to a dreamed of past. "The challenge for the believer was to encounter Jesus and to allow his message to flourish in the world in which we find ourselves, be that even in part a land of the heathen." Dr Martin said that the Christian vision contrasts with secularist thought which would wish to see religion reduced to the private sphere. "Religion, it is said, is a private matter and should have minimal influence in the public domain," he continued. "But secularist thought can go further and can even influence the cultural climate for even believers themselves. Secularist thought can begin to drive a wedge between God and his creation. "From saying that religion is a purely private matter, it is - to do on and to affirm that God has no real relationship with the world, that this world is not permeated with divine thought." While recalling that pluralism did not mean secularisation, Dr Martin said that the roots of Irish secularisation have been there for some time but perhaps we have been negligent in noticing them. "It is always important to recall that pluralism does not mean secularism. Believers have the right and the duty to be present in the societies of which they are a part." Taking a similar theme, the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, John Neill, also urged believers not to allow their Christian faith to be a private matter. Preaching in Christ Church Cathedral said that Christian faith should not be confined to the view that it was merely a matter for people "who like that sort of thing". Dr Neill said that in a secular society, such as exists in Ireland, there might be little antagonism towards Christian faith. "It is more a matter of either indifference, or the relegation of faith to a very private realm, with the underlying assumption that it has very little to do with the real world." Contrasting this with those societies which had been - or still were - antagonistic to the Christian faith, Dr Neill said he was humbled by how his friends who were Christians in the former Soviet Union and China had suffered for their faith. "We succumb to the secular indifference in the modern world if we limit Easter to an area of personal faith alone," Dr Neill continued. "It is in the celebration of Easter that we can experience once again something of that infectious joy, that sense of purpose and mission to which God calls us." Meanwhile, the Church of Ireland Primate of all Ireland has said trust remains the greatest need for community in the North. In his Easter Message Archbishop Robin Eames said trust brings confidence on the personal and the community level. "Without it we will continue to stumble from one negative experience to the other," the Archbishop of Armagh said. "But when trust exists the only question for a community and for individuals is 'Why not?' Trust at any level opens doors and unlocks hearts and minds. "This community has yet to discover the possibilities that trust can produce." Speaking earlier in St Patrick's Cathedral in Armagh, Dr Eames said that despite all the difficulties and set-backs things were changing in Northern Ireland. "There is hope as we see what was unimaginable even a few years ago becoming a reality," he said. 
