christianity
{ Kevin Palmer 
    December 14 2019 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/premier-league/article38784346.ece }
Tottenham manager Jose Mourinho has refused to deny suggestions that midfielder Christian Eriksen has expressed a desire to leave the club in next month's transfer window. Eriksen's current Spurs contract expires next June and while he is widely believed to have requested to leave the club last summer, Tottenham did not receive a suitable offer to sell their Danish playmaker. Tottenham are likely to try to cash in on Eriksen next month, with Mourinho doing his best not to divulge details of the conversations he has had with a player who has lost his form in alarming fashion in 2019. "I only know his contract ends at the end of the season and the conversations I have had with Christian are private conversations that I am not going to share," said Mourinho. "I think it is a personal thing. I am not going to share. He was so honest with me and I was so honest with him that our relationship is really, really good. "We have a very good relationship that started on day one. I am not going to betray that trust and relationship. "I just share these intimate conversations with the structure of the club, and Christian obviously knows I am an important part of the club and my job is to share with the structure but to you, it is not for me to say. "It is up to Christian to tell anything he wants to or not. Every time I play him I think he shows clearly the quality he has and he tries to help the team when he's on the pitch, which is an important thing for me, independent of his future." Eriksen was handed a start in a much-changed Tottenham side for last Wednesday's Champions League game against Bayern Munich, but he turned in another lacklustre display in what may have been one of his final appearances for the club. "Every player has ups and downs and sometimes it's not because of contracts, it's because of other things," added Mourinho. I really don't feel comfortable to speak about his situation. "Is he a fantastic player? Of course he is, but I cannot say more." Manchester United have been linked with a move to sign Eriksen next month, but Tottenham are likely to resist offers from English clubs as they would prefer not to sell the player to a domestic rival. Online Editors 
