christianity
{  
    February 18 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/the-lord-is-your-pets-shepherd-also--26160272.html }
We all know that animals are God's creatures. But do they have souls? A new book out this month featuring services for pet baptisms and pet funerals suggests that they do. John Meagher reports The clergyman stands by the graveside. Around him, mourners shrouded in black, are sobbing gently as the liturgy for the dead is intoned: ``Take pity, dear Lord, on this innocent dog whose life, like ours, was burdened with suffering and pain and grant us with him a share in your eternal kingdom.'' The crowd melts away as the clay is dumped on Rover's coffin. Mention of such a ritual is likely to surprise anybody, devout or otherwise. While ceremonies like that are the stuff of fantasy for now they may become commonplace soon if a distinguished Oxford professor, Rev. Andrew Linzey, has his way. His dream is for animals to enjoy the same spiritual ceremonies as humans. His book, Animal Rites, out this month, has been greeted with unease by the churches. The tome claims to contain the first set of church services for animals ever published. There are equivalents of pet baptisms and funerals, with healing services for animals. There are even memorial liturgies to be performed outside abattoirs and laboratories all written in the strict formal verse associated with traditional church liturgies. ``At first sight the idea of praying for animals may appear a lost cause within Christianity,'' according to Rev. Linzey, who is professor of the world's first academic post in `theology and animal welfare' at Mansfield College, Oxford. ``Almost nowhere in the common prayers and liturgies of the Christian church do we find prayers for God's non-human creatures. For the vast majority of liturgical prayers offered by Christians, it is as though the world of animals was simply invisible. ``Over the centuries people have fallen into an idolatry the idea that God is predominantly or exclusively interested in the human species,'' contends Rev. Linzey. ``The idea that God is mainly interested in humans is mind-bogglingly absurd.'' But orthodox Christian thinking does not give animals equal worth with people. Traditionalists look to the Book of Genesis which says God gave men and women dominion over the creatures of the earth. Fr Sean McDonagh is certainly not a traditionalist. An Irish Columban missionary and theologian he is familiar with much of Andrew Linzey's work and is sympathetic to many of his beliefs. Describing Animal Rites as ``a very important idea,'' he says: ``The traditional notion was that the world was only made for humans, but animals have an intrinsic value in themselves. We are creatures who depend on other creatures.'' In words that are likely to infuriate traditionalists, Fr McDonagh believes that the ``the earth was created for all species but humans have become dominant because of technology and erroneous theology''. The priest, who lives on a Columban farm, in Navan, Co. Meath and is author of three books examining his church's relationship with ecology, is highly concerned about an industry that has mushroomed in the last decade genetic engineering. ``Humans have no right to interfere with the genetic integrity of animals,'' he insists. ``We've put human cancer genes in mice. Where will this kind of experimentation stop? I think there should be a genuine public debate about the impact of this industry.'' Animals constitute a small part of the latest Catechism of the Catholic Church,issued in 1994. According to the Catechism: ``Medical and scientific experimentation on animals is a morally acceptable practice if it remains within reasonable limits and contributes to caring for or saving human lives.'' While Fr McDonagh endorses much of Andrew Linzey's beliefs, he is concerned that too much money is spent on pets. That's a view shared by the Catechism: ``It is unworthy to spend money on them (pets) that should as a priority go to the relief of human misery.'' Yet he acknowledges that pets bring great comfort to people. Basing his argument on St Paul's teachings as outlined in the Bible, Fr McDonagh believes animals, like humans, have souls. ``According to the Bible, there is a place for animals in heaven,'' he says. ``In the past we didn't think of animals having a future after death. We thought of individual souls moving to heaven. But now Christian thinking is moving closer to the idea that all of creation is yearning for salvation.'' The Mater Dei Institute in Dublin instructs future secondary school religion teachers. The head of theology at the Institute, Michael Drumm, also believes creation is ``yearning for salvation'' but he does not believe animals can possess soul. ``While animals and humans share the same physical world, they are in different moral worlds,'' he says. ``Soul primarily means a conscious. If a dog kills a chicken, for instance, it cannot be found morally responsible. But if a human kills another it can be found guilty of murder or manslaughter.'' He says the publication of Animal Rites is offensive because it equates ceremonies for animals with humans. ``Baptism and funeral rituals are entwined with human faith. To use the same rituals for animals is demeaning,'' he insists. ``Christian rituals look to the faith of the person partaking. Animals can't tell you if they have faith.'' Professor Linzey introduces elements that aren't terribly helpful. I think baptism rituals for animals are wrong. But there is no problem with a family using a naming ceremony for its pet as long as the symbols of Christian baptism are not used.'' Michael Drumm believes the Christian churches have always shown ``an extraordinary respect for creation. Just look at St Francis of Assisi - he had a huge respect for animals and them for him.'' The editor of the Irish Catholic, David Quinn, dismisses Animal Rites. ``Most Catholics would find liturgies specifically attributed to animals as a ridiculous piece of sentimentality,'' he says. ``It reminds me of the reports you hear about Americans spending a fortune on their pets when there are far greater causes in the world.'' He adds: ``We have a duty not to be cruel to animals but the idea of animals having souls bears more relation to Hinduism than Christianity.'' But there is no doubt that many pet owners place huge emphasis on their animals. Ireland's only pet cemetery, at Enniskerry, south Co. Dublin, has been the scene of the type of mourning normally associated with the passing of a member of the family. ``It is heartbreaking to see people in such grief,'' says Andy Cash, who maintains the cemetery. ``While people don't use religious ceremonies when they are burying their cats or dogs, I'm sure they say their own private prayer.'' Over 100 animals are estimated to be burried at the cemetery. ``Some people have erected headstones for the animals with details on the animal's name, age and owner. Others lay wreaths on a regular basis,'' he says.  For those people, at least, the debate about whether animals have souls or not, is irrelevant. 
