christianity
{ PATRICIA NUNAN in Jakarta 
    November 23 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/christians-killed-in-muslim-rampage-26169274.html }
INDONESIAN troops last night struggled to maintain order in Jakarta after a Muslim mob went on the rampage, setting fire to churches and beating Christians to death. At least six people were killed in the sectarian violence, when the Muslims, some chanting ``death to the infidels,'' attacked Catholic and Protestant targets and beat and hacked to death at least five people. There were signs last night that the violence was spreading to the Chinese community and hundreds of soldiers wearing riot gear and backed by armoured cars attempted to establish a security cordon to contain the lawlessness. Shops in the central Jakarta business district closed early with merchants boarding up windows and doors. The anti-Chinese violence erupted after a gang fight between Muslims and Christians claimed six lives earlier in the day. The sectarian clashes reportedly broke out after a row over the opening times of a Christian-owned gambling hall. Later, a mob of Muslim youths set fire to a Protestant church and ransacked a Catholic church after hearing rumours that some Christian worshippers had set fire to a mosque. In one incident, the mob broke through the front doors of the Sacred Heart Catholic, Church interrupting a wedding. They overturned pews and smashed statues and confessional boxes. The priest, bride, groom and wedding guests fled to a nearby community centre. Shortly after calm was restored, a mob hacked to death a Christian from the eastern city of Ambon. Indonesia is the world's most populous Muslim nation: about 90pc of its 202m people are Muslim. The ethnic Chinese minority makes up about 4pc of the population. The group is widely resented for its perceived dominance of the merchant class. Rumours that ethnic Chinese might have provoked the incident between Muslims and Christians are now being blamed for violence against the ethnic Chinese minority later in the day. The ethnic Chinese, however, are also the frequent targets of violence during times of civil unrest. About 1,200 people many of them ethnic Chinese were killed during rioting in Jakarta last May.  (The Times, London) 
