christianity
{ David QuinnReligious and SocialAffairs Correspondent 
    January 06 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/the-search-for-a-common-set-of-values-26019340.html }
Most of the rows concerning the proposed constitution of the European Union have been practical ones. They have been about such issues as the voting rights of the member states, or the proposed new powers of the EU. But a much more theoretical one has also  been fought. This has been waged over the preamble to the constitution. This is basically a statement of the shared value Most of the rows concerning the proposed constitution of the European Union have been practical ones. They have been about such issues as the voting rights of the member states, or the proposed new powers of the EU. But a much more theoretical one has also been fought. This has been waged over the preamble to the constitution. This is basically a statement of the shared values of Europe as well as a description of the source of those values. The trouble is, it has proven impossible to get everyone to agree just what those shared values are or where they come from. The latter question has proven especially contentious. Does Europe derive its values - its respect for freedom, democracy and human rights for example - from religion or from more secular ideas such as those derived from the Enlightenment of the 18th century? The answer, of course, is both. But if we can agree that religion is one source of those values, then what religion are we talking about? Surely most people would agree that because Christianity has been easily the dominant religion of Europe for centuries, then it is Christianity that has acted as the source for many of Europe's values. Unfortunately, this is where things get a bit tricky. There are three basic objections to giving Christianity a specific mention. The first is that to mention it, and not some of the others religions as well, might make non-Christian religious believers feel left out of the new Europe. The second is that the legacy of Christianity is problematic. Some people even go so far as to suggest that it is almost entirely negative. They say that Christianity has been the principle historical opponent of democracy, freedom and human rights. They say it has mainly been a source of division, intolerance, ignorance and hatred. A third objection is that precisely because of this negative legacy we developed the doctrine of Church/State separation and that to mention Christianity - and some say religion as well - in the preamble would breach this doctrine. These arguments might seem strong, but the counter-arguments are more compelling. It is simply a fact that Christianity played a vital part in the shaping of Europe. Islam did not, except in the most indirect way. Nor did Hinduism, not did Buddhism. Not to mention Christianity, therefore, would be a denial of who we are. Second, while there is a negative side to the Christian ledger, there is also a positive side. Christianity produced Europe's first hospitals, schools and universities after the fall of the Roman Empire. It gradually replaced the old barbarian notion that might is right, with the far more humane one of charity towards one another. Vitally, it provided a unifying principle for Europe. The one and only thing that the warring peoples of Europe had in common down through the centuries was their shared faith. Without this there would hardly be a concept of Europe at all. Third, it is not just the Christian legacy that has its problems. An early draft of the preamble made mention of Europe's Greek, Roman and Enlightenment heritage and left Christianity out altogether. But the Greeks and Romans believed in slavery for example. The Romans might have had a system of laws, but they also cultivated a culture of brutality that was quite unquestioned. As for the Enlightenment, while on the one hand it helped to lead to democracy, on the other it led to the Terror of the French Revolution and eventually to the gulag of the Soviet Union. It could be said that it replaced violence in the name of Christ, with violence in the name of liberty, equality and fraternity. Nonetheless, it is a very important part of Europe's heritage, as is ancient Greece and Rome. But then, so is Christianity. Finally, the critics of mentioning Christianity, or even religion, in the preamble misunderstand the meaning of Church/State separation. To begin with, and contrary to popular belief, there would be no such separation were it not for the Church. It is from Christianity that the idea of separating the things of God, from the things of Caesar, comes. The history of Christendom is in some way the history of the battle over what is God's and what is Caesar's that was fought between kings and popes. In most other cultures, no such battle existed. Either the king controlled everything, or the religious authorities did. More practically, what Church/State separation means is not that Christians should not be allowed to participate as Christians in public life but that neither Church nor State should be allowed to impose their will on one another. The current draft of the preamble mentions the humanist and religious heritage of Europe. That is a whole lot better than nothing but the resistance of many people within the EU to mentioning a simple historical fact worries many Christians and unnecessarily alienates them from the whole project. 
