christianity
{ Jerome Starkey in Kabul and Kim Sengupta 
    October 22 2008 11:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/christians-in-kabul-are-warned-you-are-being-watched-by-taliban-agents-26486631.html }
Kabul's Christian community is on high alert amid claims that their congregations are under surveillance by Taliban agents after Monday's killing of Gayle Williams, the Christian charity worker shot dead in the street on her way to work. Afghan intelligence officials have warned Christians they may be followed home from church. Investigators close to the murder inquiry said yesterday they were considering the possibility that Ms Williams knew her killers. Friends revealed that Gayle had asked to be buried in the Christian cemetery in Kabul. Her body is being kept in a makeshift morgue at Kabul University until her London-based mother, and her sister who lives in South Africa, arrive for the funeral. Speaking to The Independent yesterday, her mother Pat Williams said: "I am still trying to cope with what happened and it is very hard. The only thing that gives me comfort is knowing that she was doing what she loved most when she was taken from us. I have heard that Gayle was thinking of coming to see me for Christmas, but she did not tell me that so it must have been meant as a surprise. I say to myself that at least Gayle is with Our Lord." Yesterday, police were patrolling the road where Ms Williams lived and the street where she was shot. A regular churchgoer in the same neighbourhood said his staff had been warned not to walk outside because of threats against Christians. He said: "All of us are having to be careful about what we do, where we go and what we say." Sayed Ansari, a spokesman for the secret police, said officials would try to protect Westerners, but he warned: "People need to be vigilant when they leave their homes, especially if they are on foot." A coffee shop close to where Gayle was killed, which was popular with Christians, was closed yesterday "until further notice". Staff at the cafe said they did not want Westerners congregating in one place while security was sketchy. The Taliban said they murdered Ms Williams because she was converting people from Islam, a capital offence under Afghan law. The South African aid worker, who had moved to Britain, was volunteering for Serve Afghanistan, a UK-based Christian charity. Staff insisted she was running a project to help disabled children and had never tried to proselytise. At the spot where Gayle died friends left flowers, ribbons, a photograph and prayers. 
