christianity
{ Angus McDowall  in Irbil, Iraq 
    December 22 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/middle-east/christians-flee-homes-as-gunmen-sweep-city-26501273.html }
Hundreds of Christians have fled their homes in northern Iraq for the sanctuary of a monastery after being targeted for their faith. In peaceful times, the cool mountain air and breathtaking views afforded by the ancient monastery of Mar Matti provided a congenial day trip for the local people. But the tranquil life of Mar Matti's black-robed monks has been shattered by the arrival of hundreds of Christians fleeing a campaign of persecution in Mosul, just 20 miles away. Assyrian and Chaldean Christians have become the latest victims of violence in the city, once the most cosmopolitan in Iraq. Their homes have been raided, their priests attacked and their relatives murdered, "First they came against the Kurds, then against the Yazidis and now they have come for the Christians," said Jalal Mansour (43), a former marble worker who fled to Mar Matti with his family. "My uncle, an old man, was killed just because of his faith." For the opposing factions struggling for control over northern Iraq, Mosul is a major prize: the capital of Ninevah province holds sway over a large and fertile area peopled by Arabs, Kurds, Yazidis, Assyrians, Chaldeans and Turcomans. The city lies on the faultline between territory controlled by the Kurdish authorities and the central government in Baghdad. It is claimed by both. The scent of fear has now spread to Mar Matti, where guards armed with rifles lolled against a crude drawing of a dove on the wall of a gatehouse. Some families are moving to Irbil, the capital of the autonomous Kurdish region 50 miles away, where there have been no major terrorist attacks for nearly two years.  Tense The city's affluent Christian neighbourhood of Ainkawa was a world away from the tense atmosphere around Mosul. Happy groups of teenagers sat together in the courtyard of the Chaldean church of St Joseph. "It's very bad for all Iraqis, but Christians suffered the most," said the priest, Father Sabri al-Magdassy. He said that 2,000 families had arrived in his parish over the past four years. In the Bureau for Christian Affairs, a small committee were allocating menial jobs, lodging and pensions to refugees from Mosul and Baghdad. A man with a haunted stare said he had been kidnapped in Baghdad by the Mahdi Army and tortured for seven days. "They told me I should become a Muslim," he said. "They held my hands in the fire and beat me with sticks and rifle butts calling me an infidel. "When the police came I was too scared to tell them who took me, so I left and came to Irbil." (© Daily Telegraph, London) 
