christianity
{  
    December 17 2008 10:27 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/simply-history-can-be-complex-26500163.html }
Gearoid O Dubhain (Letters, Irish Independent, December 15) tells us that there are no figures representing Christians at the tableau. There is. There is the figure of Jesus. I don't think I need to expand that point. However, to try to connect the crib with the Holocaust is disrespectful, both to devout Christians and to those that suffered in the Holocaust. Mr O Dubhain seems to be using this extreme suffering as a tool to expunge his bitterness. That is entirely inappropriate. The crib is in no way a reminder of the capacity of man to do evil, aside from the innkeeper's refusal to give a heavily pregnant woman a room. Further, not all Jews were persecuted by Christians. Not all Christians persecuted Jews. Many of the persecutors may have been Christians, but in name only. Christians were persecuted for a long time in Europe and the Middle East. Christians continue to be persecuted in places such as Iraq, Sudan and Vietnam. That Islam recognises Jesus as a prophet is irrelevant to the discussion about Christmas. That Islam does not recognise Jesus as the Son of God does make followers of Islam 'unbelievers'. In a similar vein, Christians are not 'unbelievers', in not accepting Mohammed and the Koran as the final word. Islam was, in its early years, an aggressive and expansive religion, spreading by force across the Middle East and North Africa. A European, or indeed, Christian, response was required to preserve Europe politically and religiously. None of the above is written to defend certain actions carried out in the name of religion, nor does it defend wars, or evils, that are enacted under any other guise. Simply, history is complex, and Mr O Dubhain, with such a coloured representation of history, is further widening the divide that obstructs a pluralistic society. In Ireland, it seems people have intolerance with belief in a deity of any kind, and need to reinforce that by ensuring it becomes something to be hidden away. That is persecution in a more subtle form. Dualta RoughneenMayo 
