christianity
{ Gerard O'Regan 
    August 31 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/gerard-oregan/christians-have-most-to-fear-if-us-helps-topple-assad-29541266.html }
A Catholic priest was brutally murdered – some reports alleged he was beheaded – in Syria just a few weeks ago. The killing was carried out by one of the militias, which in the popular mind are the 'good guys' in this conflict. After all, are they not fighting against the existing evil Assad regime, which in recent days coldbloodedly exterminated an unknown number of men, women, and children by using chemical weapons? Therefore, the logic goes that Assad and his henchmen are the 'bad guys' who President Obama and his allies should pound with some of the most advanced weapons of war on the planet. But before there is a massive rush to judgment, it should be remembered that while in this civil war there are indeed very bad guys on the Assad side, there could be even greater evil among those fighting to topple his regime. As with many situations in the Middle East, the latest television pictures tend to simplify some very complex and intractable problems. And the story of Syria is a classic case in point. Its current nightmare is inevitably rooted in history and religion. In the early years of the last century, when the Turks pulled out, the British and the French, both still practising their colonial ways, carved up vast amounts of territory between them. They even indulged that infamous colonial habit of drawing a line in the sand to create new borders for artificially put-together countries. Among the results of such imperial mismanagement was the establishment of a country, loosely based on the ancient concept of a region called Syria, with the French indulging themselves as overlords. With the passage of the years, the French withdrew and eventually the current president's father, hardman Hafez al-Assad, became top dog. His main objective, as is that of his son, was to ensure the majority Sunni population did not gain power. The belief was that unless the millions of Sunnis could be kept at bay, minority religions such as his own, the Alawites, and other groups, such as Christians, were done for. So ironically, the various Christian denominations, including Roman Catholics, have over the decades in the main been supporters of the Assads – father and son. And as of this week, most Christians still view the Assad government as the lesser of two evils. Of course, they have had their misgivings over the years, but by Middle Eastern standards, under the father and son Assad regime there was remarkable religious freedom. The Christians, who in the main were reasonably affluent, were allowed go about their business and practise their religion without persecution, providing they kept their heads down when it came to matters of government. They are now terrorised by the fact that if Assad is overthrown and replaced by some of the extremist Islamist groups fighting for power, they will face widespread persecution, especially from killers linked to al-Qa'ida. Perhaps a sign of things to come was the fact that in April two Syrian bishops were kidnapped at a rebel checkpoint near the ancient city of Aleppo. Their whereabouts are still unknown and in late July, an al-Qa'ida-linked group abducted an Italian Jesuit priest. The Christians constitute only 10pc of Syria's 22 million people and, given what is currently happening to their brethren in both Iraq and Egypt, the signs are ominous should Assad fall and a motley group of extreme Islamists come to power. Despite the firepower and the good intentions of the US and its allies, the realpolitic of the Arab world remains an enemy impossible to confront by military might alone. And despite all the high talk about a 'new Iraq' in the wake of the war against Saddam Hussein, the country remains a basket case, with killing and mass murder continuing on an almost daily basis. Only this week, a series of car bombings and other attacks across Baghdad killed 86 civilians and wounded a further 263 innocent people. Is the situation there better or worse than when Saddam – the psychopath – was in power? That could be debated. But one thing is clear. The Americans, the British and the other Western countries who were involved have now essentially left the Iraqis to their fate. It is commendable that politicians like Obama are determined to confront the use of chemical weapons by a heartless despot against his own people. But what happens if some of the other bad boys get into power on the back of American and allied firepower? Syria's Christian community is one of the oldest in the world, going back two millennia. As many of us may remember from our primary school catechisms, it was on the road to its capital Damascus that the apostle Paul is said to have been converted. Remarkably also, some Syrian Christians still use Aramaic, the language spoken by Jesus. That linkage of over 2,000 years – which has survived countless tribulations over the centuries – now hangs by a thread in the face of extremist Islamic fundamentalism. Irish Independent 
