christianity
{  
    April 21 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/st-joseph-of-letterfrack-the-cruel-saint-26248240.html }
The brutal regime of work at this bleak institution meant  that its defenceless inmates didn't even get the schooling the  Brothers were paid to provide, says Mary Raftery. ONE of the most haunting images to emerge from Ireland's 52 industrial schools comes from Letterfrack. It is of small boys forced to run around a bare stone yard for hours in the wet and cold, holding their sheets above their heads. It was one of the punishments meted out to those who wet their beds. Even in the rain and mist of Connemara, the children were told to run until the sheets were dry. Described by author Mannix Flynn in the RTÉ documentary series States of Fear as a "cruel place", St Joseph's Industrial School in Letterfrack had one of the most fearsome reputations of all the institutions used by the State and the Catholic Church to incarcerate children in Ireland. To judge by the many accounts from survivors, its appalling reputation was correct. Mannix Flynn was sent there aged 10, for "mitching" from school and stealing a bicycle. He describes seeing boys being beaten senseless, "turned into gibberish", for trying to escape. The school is now a furniture college, and the headquarters of the excellent Connemara Local Radio station. For over 15 years, a number of men, some of them now elderly, who grew up in Letterfrack, have returned to visit. Many become highly distressed as they remember once more particular incidents of cruelty. One of the earliest reports in Ireland of child sexual abuse concerns Letterfrack. Peter Tyrrell, detained there during the 1930s, described how he was raped by a Christian Brother. He also spoke of seeing other boys being beaten naked for long periods. When he told of the rape in confession, though, the priest's response was to ask him how dared he tell such lies about the Brothers, without whom he would not have a roof over his head. Shortly after leaving Letterfrack, Tyrrell joined the British Army and fought in World War II. He was captured, but described the German prisoner-of-war camp as a tea party compared to Letterfrack. Peter Tyrrell campaigned bravely during the 1960s for the truth to come out about industrial schools. He made several attempts to write a book about his childhood in Letterfrack. Tragically, he committed suicide in 1967, setting himself alight in London's Hampstead Heath. It took British police almost a year to identify his body. They did so by tracing the unburned corner of a postcard in his pocket to the sender, his friend Dr Owen Sheehy-Skeffington himself a noted campaigner for reform in this area who confirmed Peter's identity. Letterfrack crops up constantly in the Department of Education's files on industrial schools. In 1943, Medical Inspector Dr Anna McCabe noticed a boy with a black eye during a routine visit. On enquiry, she was told the child got a blow for talking in class. The Department then wrote a stern letter to the Christian Bother in charge of the school requesting him "to forcibly forbid correction of this kind in the future as it is extremely dangerous and undesirable". A year later, the Brother replied, writing that a Brother "while remonstrating with his class, happened accidentally to strike the boy, who stood behind him, with his elbow". As with so many incidents on file, the Department appeared to accept this amended explanation. Severe and routine beatings remained a everyday part of the lives of the children in Letterfrack for the following three decades. Almost all the boys at the Connemara institution had been detained there on foot of a court order, most because their guardians "did not exercise proper guardianship". In other words, the view was taken that their parents were not fit to look after them. Up to the mid-1950s, there were some "infants" at the school. The youngest was two years old. There were a number of three- and four-year-olds. All were lumped in with the rest of the 100 or so older boys. In 1954, however, the "infants" were transferred elsewhere, and the school began to focus on those children under 12 convicted of a criminal offence. In most cases, the boys came from poor families, many from Dublin. Robbing orchards and stealing sweets were examples of their offences. For this, a child could be sentenced to six or eight years, depending on his age at the time. Generally they were released when they turned 16. Many others were locked up for not attending school, the idea being they would get an education at Letterfrack or its ilk. There was a cruel irony to this. Department of Education files indicate serious anxiety at how little schooling the children received; it was clear that they were being put to work. Letterfrack was perhaps the most extreme example. Run as a major business, its letterhead proudly listed its services: "Orders Received in Tailoring, Bootmaking, Carpentry, Bakery, Cartmaking, Smithwork. Also Wire Mattress, Hosiery, Hearth Rugs, Motors Repaired, Petrols and Oils Supplied." ALL in addition to a significant amount of agricultural produce from the school's large farm. Most of the labour was provided by the children. Up to 40 of them were described as full-time on the farm or other businesses. The only schooling these 40 received was a 45-minute class in Christian Doctrine after their day's work. The remaining 60 or so, usually the very young ones, had lessons in the mornings and then went out to work for the day. Thus this operation was run at a significant profit. In the early 1960s, the school had 500 sheep, 19 cows, 20 calves, eight pigs, 450 chickens, several turkeys, geese and ducks. The boys' labour provided almost all of the institution's food and there was a substantial surplus sold. The school also received Government funding for each child detained there. Throughout the decades, the Christian Brothers have complained that they did not get enough State funding and repeated this view most recently in 1999, during the aftermath of the States of Fear documentaries. They have not mentioned profits made by their child institutions. Proof of Letterfrack's substantial profits comes from the Brothers' internal records. The Order has consistently refused access to its archive on the schools, but some records have slipped into the public domain. Last year, I managed to see copies of some Visitation Reports for Letterfrack. These were reports by a senior Christian Brother dispatched to the institutions to give an annual account of their operations. Steady profits were made during the early 1950s. In 1954, Letterfrack's finances were described as "remarkably satisfactory". They had a lean patch in the late 1950s, when the numbers of boys declined. There were complaints that a court judge in Dublin was a Corkman, and was sending boys to Cork industrial schools. By the 1960s, however, numbers were up and Letterfrack was showing healthy surpluses again. By 1970, the year Willie Delaney died, the accounts show an income of £19,131, with a profit of almost £7,000. At the end of 1972, the Brothers record a massive £27,000 in the two bank accounts for Letterfrack. The importance of the boys' labour is noted one of these Visitation Reports. It describes the small inmates as "these children who mean so much financially to the institution". One Brother is congratulated for being "ever on the outlook for boys in all the centres he travels to in securing stock and supplies. To his credit goes the goodly numbers... generally maintained at the school." The Visitation Reports for the year of Willie Delaney's death make very little reference to the boys and none at all to young Willie. What they do show, however, is serious problems among the Christian Brothers. References are made to "discontent" and to "tension". What is described as "community badinage" was apparently upsetting some of the eight Brothers who were there in 1970. Another Brother is described as having "peculiarities", two of them are thought not to be "sympathetic" to the children, and another is "highly-strung" and "tense". The following year, things got worse, with open disagreement over the boys' treatment. Two of the Brothers in particular are clearly unhappy with another Brother, described as the "disciplinarian", and his actions. The Report describes "a sort of cold war in the school, sometimes heating up even in the presence of the boys". The "disciplinarian" Brother, it says, is "over-rigid with the boys, who in turn dislike this. He claims the right to intervene at all times, no matter who is in charge in any place." The Report concludes that he is "scarcely a suitable person to hold his present position". These internal records show that the Christian Brothers knew that Letterfrack was a deeply dysfunctional institution. Even the blind-eye Department of Education couldn't avoid a similar anxiety. Describing the place as "depressing" in the mid-1960s, it reported a concern that "it is possible that the Christian Brothers have not made their best possible staff available in Letterfrack". Nonetheless, when Letterfrack finally closed in 1974, the Secretary of the Department of Education sent a glowing letter to the Christian Brothers. The Department, he said, was deeply appreciative of the great care given by generations of Brothers to the boys at the institution. This letter would make bitter reading for the family of young Willie Delaney and for the hundreds of survivors of the heartless regime that for almost one hundred years years was St Joseph's Industrial School, Letterfrack. * Mary Raftery produced the RTÉ series States of Fear, and co-wrote Suffer the Little Children the Inside Story of Ireland's Industrial Schools 
