christianity
{  
    August 31 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/brother-roger-of-taize-forever-a-guiding-spirit-27054687.html }
A shadow of gloom fell on thousands of young people on their way to Cologne to welcome Pope Benedict XVI for the celebration of World Youth Day. That joy of pilgrimage was darkened by the news of the tragic killing of Brother Roger as he prayed with his community at Taizé. With that background of vibrant Christian faith one surmises that a large number of those same young people would have gathered in former times with Brother Roger in his oasis of prayer and reflection at Taizé. They would have joined there in that haunting chant: “Ubi caritas et amor Deus est.” Where there is charity and love there is God. That mantra reflects the hymn to the love of God proclaimed by the Apostle John: “Anyone who fails to love can never have known God, because God is love. God’s love for us was revealed when God sent into the world his only son so that we could have life through him” (1 John 8-9). When one looks back over the life of Robert Schutz one realises the strange ways in which the Spirit works in order to achieve the Lord’s purpose of establishing his kingdom. That is the kingdom for which we pray in the Our Father. One is reminded of the proverb addressed by Jesus to Nicodemus: “The wind blows wherever it pleases: you hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it is going. That is how it is with all who are born of the Spirit” (John 3:8). Roger Schutz was born of Protestant parents in 1915 in the area of the Jura mountains in Switzerland. His father was a Calvinist pastor. That should have made for a very strict upbringing and a distancing from any Catholic influence. Unusually Roger was sent to live with a Catholic family for part of his schooling. This says a lot about the religious background of his home. Roger spoke about his father as having the heart of a mystic. His French mother would have come from a broad church tradition. Roger was always interested in religion. He would discuss it with the Catholic family which fostered him at school. Even though he remained a Protestant he was interested in the Catholic faith and was particularly attracted to Catholic liturgy. He studied theology in the University of Lausanne, graduating with a dissertation on the monastic life. At university he became president of the Association of Christian Students. It all reminds one of how another student, Frederic Ozanam, the inspired founder of the Society of St Vincent de Paul, began his life. As the 1939-1945 war ground its way across Europe with so much suffering Roger Schultz felt called on to found a hospice. “It would offer,” he said, “a possible way of helping some of those desolated, those deprived of a livelihood, and it could be a place of silence and work.” In 1944 he set up a hermitage in eastern France at Taizé near Clung, itself a place with an age-old monastic tradition. It was a small beginning but it developed over the years into a major ecumenical centre of reconciliation. It recalls how Jesus compared his kingdom to a tiny seed which grows into a large tree with spreading branches to which the birds come for shelter (Matthew 13:31-32). If the Taizé experience has not generated a sheaf of theological studies up to now the tragic killing of Brother Roger will provide motivation for future research. Taize represented a simple but highly effective way of drawing together people of all traditions across all divisions. The secret was love and mutual acceptance leading to healing and reconciliation. Given Brother Roger’s familiarity with the monastic tradition of St Benedict one sees why he trusted in that tried and tested principle which linked work and prayer in the Benedictine Rule. “Laborare est orare.” It is a matter of the right spirit, of having one’s heart in the right place, of life lived in Christian harmony. A parallel may be found many centuries ago in the monastery of St Aelred of Rievaulx in Yorkshire. For St Aelred Christian love at the heart of the community was the key to monastic life. Taizé had a special attraction for young people. Eventually 5000 a week were gathering to pray and reflect with Brother Roger and his community of brothers drawn from all Christian denominations. The outreach was the spread of Taizé groups out across the world. One common mantra echoed everywhere “Ubi caritas et amor Deus I bi est”. No Christian may doubt that there indeed was the Holy Spirit at work guiding and inspiring. Pope John XXIII recognised it. When he convoked the Vatican Council Brother Roger was invited to attend. Pope John Paul II had him beside him at the ecumenical prayer gathering in Assisi. Mother Teresa of Calcutta and he recognised one another as kindred spirits when he went to share her Christian ministry to the abandoned poor. At the funeral Mass for the late Holy Father the chief celebrant was Cardinal Ratzinger. Brother Roger sat close to the sanctuary in his wheel chair. The man soon to be appointed Pope brought him the Eucharist. No one expressed surprise even though Brother Roger was not a Catholic. It was a unique occasion in clear recognition that he shared the Catholic faith in the real presence of the Saviour in the Eucharist. People do ask the question which here presented itself in clear terms. Why did Brother Roger not become a Catholic? There was no doubt about his attachment to the Catholic Church in heart and spirit. Why then did he remain formally a Protestant up to his death? The answer surely is that he wished to witness to the essence of the Christian faith across all human divisions. That essence is the common link between all who share in baptism and are called on to live by the Gospel. This is the Church that Christ intended when he sent out the apostles on their mission of evangelisation. This challenge is at the heart of the ecumenical movement. Brother Roger witnessed to the deepest level of ecumenical dialogue where heart speaks to heart. “Cor ad cor loquitur.” Naturally he would have agreed that there must also be a meeting of minds. That meeting of minds should stem from the principle that all Christians are called on to love one another. They should find here the alpha and the omega of the peace and unity which Christ intended for his Kingdom. The secret of Taizé is that of living in the spirit of the Gospel. This is always a challenge to the concept of church as institution. The emphasis can fall on systems, structures and procedures. Effective management and administration then rule as criteria for success. In an address to a group of American bishops last year the late Holy Father may well have been thinking of the contrast between the simple Gospel life in communities such as Taizé and the complex structures in their system. His words merit quotation. “Experience teaches that when priority is mainly given to ordered external stability, the motivation to personal conversion, ecclesial renewal and missionary zeal can be lost and a false sense of security can ensue.” Is not this a reminder of what Jesus said in the Gospel about procedures enshrined in legal observance? “You have neglected the weightier matters of the Law — justice, mercy, truth! These you should have practised, without neglecting the others” (Mathew 12:23). Brother Roger had the priorities right. He was not a media personality. He was not a political figure. Without question he will be recalled when media personalities and political figures are long forgotten. Brother Roger had not time for a personality cult. The spirit of Taizé does not depend on him as one man. Without doubt the ministry at Taizé will continue. Already his successor as prior, Brother Aloysius, is at the helm. Meantime Brother Roger will remain a guiding spirit. 
