christianity
{ Frank Khan 
    May 06 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/cyber-christians-to-get-tangled-in-a-web-of-virtual-dating-25913399.html }
THE opportunity for Christians to find a partner via the internet will soon be available in Ireland. From the middle of this month, people will be able to log on to a new website, www.christianconnection.ie, and have access to details about other singles from a wide range of Christian denominations who are looking to date or form a more permanent relationship. Christian Connection - the group behind the website - claims to have been successful in Britain, where it was set up four years ago. According to the organisation, it has already seen 150 weddings and engagements as a result of meetings organised through the site "and new relationships start every week". It also claims 30-40 new members join daily and it is now "the most popular" Christian site in the UK. New Irish members, who are being offered free membership for the first year, can have their profile put on the site and will be able "to search for compatible Christian partners within Ireland". The organisation says members can e-mail each other via the site and retain confidentiality "until they feel the moment is right" to meet. Last night, spokesperson Jackie Elston said people of any age can join but the majority recruited in the UK were between 20 and 45. "People don't have to pass a panel - it is pretty flexible," she said. "We encourage members to talk about their moral values and beliefs. It is something secular sites rarely bother to do effectively and appropriately. But for practising Christians of all denominations, having a shared faith is essential and provides the glue for long-term relationships." As fewer people attended church regularly, it was important for those that did to be able "to find each other". "As singleness is definitely on the increase, so is the demand for the site. That doesn't mean that everybody who joins the site wants a relationship - but they do want to be able to connect with like-minded people. Internet matchmaking sites are giving singles choices, scope and a practical way forward." A year's subscription will cost ?118 and it will be ?79.97 for six months. Christian Connection operates offline as well. It runs 'speed dating' events in the UK and plans to extend the service to Dublin too. It says speed dating is "a phenomenally popular way" for single people to meet each other face-to-face. Fifteen men and women are brought together and during the course of an evening, each man and woman talk to each other for 3-4 minutes. "During the evening, all potential couples will have met up and had the chance to list those they might wish to see again," according to the group. Each event begins with a prayer and the group takes "a great deal of care to ensure it is done in a responsible and friendly way". 
