christianity
{ Fr Eamonn Conway 
    March 14 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/movies/love-not-brutality-achieves-salvation-26218686.html }
THE New Testament, according to Emer O'Kelly (The Sunday Independent,  March 7, 2004), is "unrelentingly" and "unapologetically" anti-Semitic. The Gospel stories, in her view, portray the Jews as "ignorant, deliberately cruel, destructive and without any moral integrity". Christianity, she is certain, is "about salvation being achieved only through brutality and savagery": som THE New Testament, according to Emer O'Kelly (The Sunday Independent, March 7, 2004), is "unrelentingly" and "unapologetically" anti-Semitic. The Gospel stories, in her view, portray the Jews as "ignorant, deliberately cruel, destructive and without any moral integrity". Christianity, she is certain, is "about salvation being achieved only through brutality and savagery": something that Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ "proves". O'Kelly considers herself an expert on many aspects of Christianity. Gibson's film, she tells us, "is absolutely faithful to the New Testament". The depiction of Satan as a "nasty-looking but incredibly beautiful woman" is also, according to Kelly, "absolutely correct in Biblical terms". Not just correct, but absolutely correct. Why? Because "the Church loathes women as a dangerous and evil influence", and this despite the "valiant efforts of women theologians who do not have the courage to leave the Roman Catholic Church". Criticism of violence in the film by Catholics, O'Kelly goes on to say, is evidence of their lack of commitment - and is apparently conclusive proof that they never really think about the reality of their faith. Significantly, O'Kelly devotes a full paragraph to telling us what she does not know about film review. She admits that she has no technical knowledge of cinematography, no encyclopaedic knowledge of the history of film, no information on what is currently happening in film around the world. Having acknowledged her amateur status, O'Kelly nevertheless critiques certain aspects of this "fiercely powerful movie" - but at least she has warned the reader that she has no particular expertise. No such warning precedes her evaluation of what accords with the New Testament and with beliefs of Roman Catholics and other Christians. I am not 'having a go' at Emer O'Kelly because she is a non-believer, though this has to influence her perspective. The problem with O'Kelly's piece is that she assumes she knows more than she does. No technical knowledge in the field of Biblical studies, no encyclopaedic knowledge of the history of theology and no information regarding current research in the field of Christology seem to be no obstacles to her making dogmatic statements about Christianity. Firstly, Gibson's inspiration for the portrayal of Satan comes not from scripture, but from the dubious visions of a German nun, Catherine Anne Emmerich (1774-1824). Moreover, Ms O'Kelly says that salvation is achieved through brutality and savagery. Violence, savagery, intolerance and racism are all found in the Gospels. However, this is because they are also found in human hearts. According to Christians, wherever humanity is found, whether blessed or bloodied, God is found. But salvation is not achieved through savagery. Violent and savage acts, and indeed brutal and savage words, achieve very little. Only love transforms. For the record, this is what I think the Gospels portray. In the life, death and resurrection of Jesus, God is letting us humans know that there is nothing we can do, no matter how brutal or savage, that will deprive us of God's love. This includes the killing of God's own son: a killing, by the way, in which Christians believe all people participate when they reject love. Christians do not, at least not now, scapegoat Jews for Christ's death. It is God's gamble that the totality of self-giving on the cross - this embrace of sinful humanity - will transform human hearts. Only love can teach us to love. The cross is love's price. Christians have not always been the best exemplars of Christ's message. At times they have downright betrayed it. Nonetheless, his message still merits accurate telling. Fr Eamonn Conway is head of the Department of Theology and Religious Studies at Mary Immaculate College, University of Limerick 
