christianity
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    January 16 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/god-is-now-in-the-dock-and-he-looks-pretty-guilty-26203620.html }
IF EVER there was a symbol of the church's unwillingness or inability to tackle, much less answer, some of the fundamental challenges to faith, it was the Pope's New Year Message. Over 150,000 were dead across South Asia in a disaster caused by a design flaw in the very fabric of the earth on which they stood, and millions of believers were asking a pertinent question: Where was God? Why does He let such things happen? Pope John Paul II's answer was to urge them to unite against gay marriage and stem-cell research. And still Catholics wonder why so many of the former faithful are turning away. Even those Christian leaders who directly tackled the question of why such suffering is permitted by an omnipotent God who they teach intercedes in human affairs through prayer were floundering. The Archbishop of Dublin, for one, may have called in his first Christmas mass for young people to "bring the newness of the message of Jesus to the world where we live"; but after the tsunami, the best he could manage was an abstract reflection: "The disaster tells us how little we know of the creation of the cosmos in which we live." Such responses did not attempt to answer the question so much as hurriedly sidestep it, and they were not sufficient. Tony Blair was criticised for staying on holiday in Egypt after the tsunami struck; Conor Lenihan was slated for going on holiday soon afterwards; but it was Christian leaders who, intellectually-speaking, really went AWOL. Other faiths were having no such problems. Fundamentalist Muslims proclaimed that what happened was a punishment on countries in South Asia which had encouraged sex and drugs and alcohol, becoming "playgrounds for Westerners and errant Muslims". It is the classic rapist's excuse: the victims were asking for it. As proof, a spokesman for the Centre for Islamic Studies in Colombo even pointed to satellite photographs which appeared to show the wave which hit the coast of Sri Lanka spelling out the name of Allah in Arabic. In the same vein, the calamity was blamed by some in India on the arrest of a prominent Hindu leader, by others on the presence of Christian missionaries in the region. "The world is being punished for wrongdoing," was how Israel's chief rabbi responded too. Only Buddhist monks, not believing in God in any traditional Judaeo-Christian sense, explained quietly that it happened - "just because . . . this is how nature works". Secularists have their own ready answers. They can blame inadequate warning systems, human error, the way in which global poverty leaves the poor vulnerable. There are also environmentalists who blame the disaster on the weakening of the land's natural coastal defences by ecologically-unsound development. It is uncomfortably close to the theocratic surety that disaster is a punishment for wrongdoing, but at least it is an explanation of sorts. Our own churches have grown too soft to offer their own definitive answers. There are hardline US Christians who say the tsunami was a punishment for abortion, or a warning to Muslims, Hindus and Buddhists to embrace Jesus; but these conclusions are not possible within the prevailing culture in which Irish churches operate. Here the need to be cuddly and socially inclusive and non-judgemental takes precedence over everything else, hence, when disaster strikes, church leaders can seem feebly mute and impotent, liberal handwringers all. They can dash off a statement damning greed or terrorism or consumerism easily enough. The Beslan school massacre, 9/11, murder, war - each can be neatly attributed to fallen mankind's capacity for evil, with God as the solution. But when it seems to be God who is the problem - dooming the most wretched on earth to suffer appallingly just because, like some dodgy builder, He apparently couldn't make the tectonic plates of His own earth fit together properly - then they take refuge in rhetorical cliches about God's unknowability. The result of this stepping aside from the asking of legitimate questions is that the ground which ought to be occupied by thinking Christians is colonised instead by Jesus-bothering extremists who seem to envy the unwavering iron certainties of other faiths. These are the people who cried foul when the BBC screened Jerry Springer: The Opera last weekend. The sort of people more offended by satirical representations of the church on TV than they are by clerical sexual abuse. They are also the same sort of people who have come out in force to attack Anthony Cronin and this newspaper for a poem, The Grand Design , published in Christmas week, which posited the idea that God should "fall on his knees . . . and beg to be forgiven" by victims of the Nazi Holocaust. The reaction from certain quarters to the poem was little short of astonishing. The charge of "blasphemy" - a word which ought to be treated with the utmost care by those who believe in a loving God - was flung about with abandon. To even question what God did and did not do, incensed correspondents suggested, was beyond the pale of civilised discourse. By an unhappy accident, within days of the poem appearing the question of God's culpability for disaster was being asked by the entire world - even the Irish Times , with their usual knack for being seven and a half steps behind everyone else, finally jumped onto the bandwagon in recent days. But as Cronin noted in response to his accusers in the Letters Page here last Sunday, the universal questioning of divine purpose had little impact on certain Irish Christians who were still more outraged by one poem than they were by 150,000 broken pieces of evidence of God's unwillingness to save the innocent from suffering. It was an irony lost on them that the sea in South Asia had just shown precisely and brutally why it might be worth asking why God is not ashamed of His indifference. Religious fundamentalism is a gathering darkness. Putting God in the dock and demanding that He explain Himself might be an important part of holding back that tide of unreason and superstition. And it's worth remembering that a couple of thousand years ago, Christ was wondering aloud on the Cross why God had forsaken Him too. If Jesus is God, as Christians believe, then the question itself must come direct from God; and with millions more dead in meaningless catastrophes since, the same despairing question has hardly become less relevant. Equally, if God made man, as Christians also believe, then He assuredly gave him a questioning intelligence for a reason. A God who plots the pain and misery of His children, whilst seething in heavenly outrage when human beings despair at the cruel tricks played on them, would be a poor sort of loving deity. Why would anyone chose to believe in such a miserable, life- hating concept? It is that which is the real mystery. 
