christianity
{ David Tucker 
    October 30 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/jackman-backs-brothers-in-row-over-statement-27683048.html }
A WEXFORD director of the One In Four organisation has hit out at 'all the mud-slinging' in the wake of a Christian Brothers' statement on abuse, despite the fact that One In Four have themselves attacked the statement. The organisation, who work for the victims of sexual abuse, have described as a 'regrettable backward step' the statement by the Christian Brothers in which the order said abuse was not as widespread as had been claimed. Support for the Brothers has, however, come from an unlikely source, one of the directors of One in Four, Wexfordman Pat Jackman, who said he was tired of all the mud-slinging. 'While in no way whatsoever denying or mininising the obvious suffering that many of my fellow abuse victims suffered under the hands of various Christian Brothers, I think it is churlish and unhelpful to attack statements that merely state the fact there is no basis in the now-established perception that there had been large scale systematic abuse within the institutions the Christian Brothers ran,' he said. Expressing his personal view, rather than as a director of One in Four Mr. Jackman said the constant barrage of attacks against the Christian Brothers and other religious organisations 'does not bear out in the experiences in the majority of people, myself included, who were in contact with the Christian Brothers in this country.' He said that attacking a statement like that will serve to gradually diminish the sort of support the victims of clerical abuse have attained over the last number of years and will only serve the purposes of widening the division between those who have been abused and the organisations who represented the individuals who perpetrated these crimes. 'This mutual mud-slinging is getting tiresome quite frankly, and doesn't serve my purposes, the purposes of other victims or the members of the religious organisations of this country,' said Mr. Jackman. However, Wexford Rape and Sexual Abuse Support Service said the Brothers' comments and those of their support organisation - LOVE - diminished the experiences of those who suffered such abuse. 'I would have a concern about what their agenda is,' said the Wexford support service's director Yvonne Pim. 'It seems to be a damage limitation exercise, and I think it's rather unseemingly the way they are responding. We all recognise that not every single person was abused, but it's potentially diminishing what those who alleged they were abused have experienced.' In a statement issued at the weekend, the Christian Brothers rejected what they called the now established perception that there had been large-scale systematic abuse in institutions they ran. They said it had been acknowledged that some abuse had take place, but said allegations had been made against a large number of their members, the vast majority of whom strongly rejected the claims. The Brothers' statement was backed up by an organisation called 'Let Our Voices Emerge (LOVE)' made up of people who were raised by the order. But Wexford-born Colm O'Gorman's One in Four organisation said the Brothers' statement was a 'regrettable backward step' and a return to the blanket denial which characterised the Christian Brothers' approach to sexual abuse prior to 1999. 'In both tone and content, the statement will cause further deep hurt to the men and women supported by One in Four who experienced widespread sexual, physical and emotional abuse in institutions and day schools run by the Christian Brothers,' said One in Four's clinical director Therese Gaynor. 
