christianity
{  
    December 22 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/muslim-rule-crushes-christian-spirit-26201314.html }
LIFE in Bethlehem has become insufferable for many members of the dwindling Christian minority.Increasing tensions with Muslims have left some Christians reluctant to celebrate Christmas in the town at the heart of the story of Christ's birth. ``I do not dare to go out on Christmas Eve any more. The Muslim boys call me and the other Christian girls whores. They spit at us, try to force us to wear headscarves and in the fasting month of Ramadan that begins in a few days, the Palestinian police even arrest us for smoking or eating on the streets,'' said Lina Atallah, receptionist at the Salesian Convent and Church on a street scarred with intifada slogans. Decimated by emigration and for the past two years living under the Muslim-dominated Palestinian Authority, Bethlehem's Christians now make up less than a third of the 39,000 population, compared with 80pc during the period of the British Mandate which ended in 1948. In the so-called Greater Bethlehem, which had only five mosques in 1970, there are now 72. Manger Square, the area in front of the Church of the Nativity, is packed with Muslim worshippers every Friday because there is no longer enough room for all of them to pray inside the imposing Mosque of Omar. When Diana Saman was a child in the 1950s, homes in her street only 300 yards from the square, the focus of worldwide televised Christmas celebrations on December 24, were bedecked with colourful lights and carol singers went from door to door. Today, most of her neighbours are Muslims, and when lights are hung outside they herald the start of Ramadan. Like many Bethlehem Christians, Mrs Saman (42) no longer celebrates Christmas in public. ``It does not feel like Christmas. I would rather stay home,'' she said. Her sentiments were echoed by Ranna Najjar, another Christian housewife in the West Bank town where the Muslim birthrate far outstrips that of the Christians. ``The city is not ours anymore. We gave up the city,'' she said. Ms Atallah (28) regrets returning from Texas to Bethlehem after the 1993 peace treaty which ended 27 years of Israeli military rule there. ``The Muslims want to get rid of us. They want us to live like them. The Jews put up roadblocks and stop us even going to the holy places in Jerusalem without a special permit,'' she said. ``Life for the Christians in Bethlehem is like being in a cage.'' In Beit Sahur, an Arab village at the centre of the Christmas story, being the spot where the angel visited shepherds to tell them of Christ's birth, Muslim-Christian tensions are even greater. In August, a mob of 200 Christians stormed the local police station manned by Palestinian Authority police after an Islamic militant attempted to enforce his strict dress code on a young Christian woman in a low-necked top. Seven people were injured in the ensuing fracas. ``Muslims in the city are fundamentalists,'' said one of the Christians involved in that protest. A report published two months ago by the Israeli prime minister's office concluded that Christians were exposed to unceasing persecution under the Palestinian Authority. `Cemeteries have been destroyed, monasteries broken into, and their telephone lines disconnected,' the report says. George Carey, the Archbishop of Canterbury, said after a visit to the Holy Land in 1993: ``My fear is that in 15 years, Jerusalem, Bethlehem once centres of a strong Christian presence might become a kind of Walt Disney Christian theme park.'' His vision of the birthplace of the Christian religion becoming a place where outsiders tend the shrines for the sake of visiting pilgrims only is becoming more a reality with each celebration of Christ's birth. ( The Times, London)
 
