christianity
{  
    March 26 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/jesus-is-back-in-the-multiplexes-with-more-christian-blockbusters-to-come-reports-kevin-maher-25996740.html }
There's something eerily prophetic about it. It's March 2003, and Mel Gibson is in Rome's famous Cinecitt/ Studios, holding a brief Q&amp;A with journalists while on a break from shooting his beloved, although reportedly bemusing, ultra-violent, super-Christian, arthouse Jesus torture film,  The Passion of the Christ. There's something eerily prophetic about it. It's March 2003, and Mel Gibson is in Rome's famous Cinecitt/ Studios, holding a brief Q&A with journalists while on a break from shooting his beloved, although reportedly bemusing, ultra-violent, super-Christian, arthouse Jesus torture film, 
The Passion of the Christ. Gibson, consistently on the defensive, is justifying his reasons for using dead languages, subtitles and extreme gore when one journalist cuts him short and asks, boldly: "Who will want to see a film like this?" Gibson pauses, thinks, and responds simply, with a bafflingly confident "Everyone." Flash-forward two years, and Gibson's confidence is rewarded on a near-biblical scale. His movie has indeed been seen by everyone (almost), racking up more than $600 million in cinemas around the world, selling as many DVDs as 
Spider-Man (not to mention T-shirts and designer jewellery), and is returning for another big-screen bout this Easter, albeit in a slightly less violent 'recut' form. But even more significant is 
The Passion's apparent effect on the wider Hollywood filmmaking community which, keen to emulate Gibson's commercial success, has suddenly discovered its Inner Christian. " 
The Passion has been the most significant event for the church in Hollywood and in cinema, probably ever!" claims Barbara Nicolosi, the founder of Act One, a coalition of nearly 300 Christian writers in Hollywood. "This movie has everybody within the industry rethinking long-standing assumptions about the global audience." Thus the US sleeper hit of 2005 is the Christian playwright Tyler Perry's romantic comedy 
Diary of a Mad Black Woman (tagline: 'Time heals the heart. Faith heals the rest'), about a wealthy lawyer's wife (Kimberly Elise) who loses everything, including her husband, only to discover the power of redemption and forgiveness, and the love of a churchgoing man (Shemar Moore). Meanwhile, Sony has thrown its enormous financial weight behind a big-screen adaptation of the popular futuristic ultra-Christian 
Left Behind novels, which are set in that exciting yet turbulent biblical period after the Rapture and before the Second Coming, and contain what the producer Andr† van Heerden calls a "core gospel message". Elsewhere, the youngest Baldwin brother and one-time 
Usual Suspects wild man Stephen has openly declared his 'born-again' status and produced and promoted a semi-religious extreme sports DVD called 
Livin' It, aimed at hooking Christian skate kids and BMX bikers. The most striking example, however, of unstoppable post- 
Passion commercial drive can be seen in Disney's early handling of its $150 million family-friendly behemoth, 
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. A full 10 months before the movie's Christmas release, Disney has already started to court influential Christian pressure groups. It has hired the marketing company (Motive Marketing) that sold 
The Passion to the world, and has invited faith-based organisations to a reception at Disney's Burbank headquarters where parts of the movie were screened and they discussed the need for the film to retain the book's so-called 'special significance' - ie, Aslan the lion (voiced by Brian Cox), is a blatant Christ surrogate who offers his life in exchange for the mischievous boy Edmund Pevensie (Skandar Keynes), is then tortured and killed by the evil White Witch (Tilda Swinton), but is eventually resurrected into an even greater glory. For a company like Disney (with a supposedly non-religious corporate bias) that has been boycotted since the early 1990s by these same Christian pressure groups for, among other things, promoting homosexuality through Gay Days at its theme parks and producing 'obscene' movies through its subsidiary companies (see Miramax's 
Priest and 
Dogma), does this sudden volte face into the arms of the Christian lobby not represent a crude kind of commercial opportunism? "I would say that the people at Disney are simply being very thorough in who they target," says Sally Caplan, president of Mel Gibson's Icon Film Distribution. "We all know that we're putting films out there to make money, and I don't think there's anything wrong with that. "It only becomes a problem if the Christian angle is overfocused. The Christian element is relevant, but you wouldn't be saying 'Come and see 
Narnia! It's the biggest Christian film since 
The Passion'!" And yet, so far, there are no signs that Disney has any intention of downplaying the religious aspects of its potential blockbusters which, if delivered episodically in a Harry Potter-esque series of seven, would suggest that the current boom in Christian-targeted movies could continue and flourish well into the next decade and beyond. Which is a somewhat troubling and ultimately unlikely scenario for Caplan. She says that, irrespective of audience demographic or box-office predictions, all these post- 
Passion films - from romantic comedies to apocalyptic action movies - have to be made, first and foremost, with integrity. "If it turns out that the film-makers are simply targeting Christians cynically, solely to make money, I just don't think it'll work, and I doubt the Christian audience is going to be fooled by it for long." Meanwhile, back in time, Gibson is still battling with the Roman press corps. "They think I'm crazy, and maybe I am," he says, referring to the supposed impossibility of making a single dollar from a film starring Jim Caviezel (pictured above) speaking Aramaic. "But maybe I'm a genius." 
