christianity
{ Aengus Fanning 
    February 22 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/were-the-christian-brothers-really-christian-the-truth-26218047.html }
TWENTY years ago or so, Charles J Haughey used to say that the Christian Brothers had given him the best education a man could have had. It was a not-so-subtle  form of self-praise - and it wasn't true. Today, the Christian Brothers are, for many, synonymous with corporal punishment and sexual abuse. This is not only an unfair perception, it is also often quite wrong. Neither extreme does justice to the few hundred surviving Christian Brothers, most of them elderly, confused and haunted by the stigma imposed on them by a society that is, as always, both judgmental and forgetful. It was Brian Walden who said, "Gratitude is the most demanding of emotions." Maybe gratitude is too much to expect from the many thousands of us who went to Christian Brothers schools, but perhaps we could extend to what is left of the Christian Brothers - still legal owners of hundreds of schools - a little bit of fair play. A former Christian Brother, Tom Dunne, who taught history at UCC and is now Professor Emeritus there, published a remarkable book last week, Rebellions: Memoir, Memory and 1798.Its main theme is the misrepresentation of the events of 1798 in Dunne's native Wexford at the time of the bicentenary. But it also contains a fascinating and valuable account of the Christian Brothers from the inside. Tom Dunne entered the Order when he was 14. "They had these houses of formation," he says. "They were essentially boarding schools, and they were interesting because in many ways they were not unlike the English boarding schools that you read about in stories, like Billy Bunter or whatever: you recognised them when you got there. It's the same combination of study and games and good behaviour. "They had one junior house of formation where I did my Inter Cert in Bray, in the old Protestant Archbishop's residence. It was a gorgeous house. They had a big outdoor swimming pool - we swam in it right through the year. There were only about 60 to 70 of us; they had very good teachers, and we had to learn to do everything through Irish. That was a great experience: in fact, one of the things I got most from the Brothers, culturally, is the Irish language, which I still work in and which hugely influenced my analysis of 1798. "I think there's an awful lot of anger among a very large number of Irish men about their individual experiences," he continues. "I think a lot of it is not so much about the Christian Brothers themselves, but about the nature of the society of the 1940s and 1950s, which was very bleak and where there was a lot of violence, even in domestic terms. The violence in schools in some ways reflected a kind of common, accepted level of physical punishment of children, even in homes. I think most teachers at that time had the experiences that I had in all the schools I taught in, where parents gave out to me for not using corporal punishment: you know, you're too soft on them, and so on. "It was a very bleak time: there was a lot of unemployment, there was very little joy in society - and I think the Christian Brothers have come to symbolise a lot of what was negative about Ireland before the 1960s. So in a way, I think they have been unlucky. On the other hand, they obviously have to take responsibility for a significant number of fairly horrific institutions, as well as the ordinary schools that they ran where they didn't meet their own high standards. But they feel now that they've been blamed for more than they were responsible for, and I have some sympathy for them about that - without minimising the hurt that people went through in those institutions. "My memory is that the Brothers who were sent to these institutions often weren't in favour," he suggests. "I think it was often almost a threat: if you didn't behave yourself, you would be sent there and end up in Letterfrack or Daingean. "I think they were very hard places to run, and I think at that time the brothers running them had no training. In a way we all looked away from it. I think the whole society - the Department of Education, the Orders themselves, people in the local community, teachers, guards - knew what was going on, but we preferred not to think about it." Dunne, thinking back to one small industrial school in which he had been teaching for a short while when another Brother was on holidays, recalled, "It was such a bleak place. I didn't see anything horrible, I don't remember any kind of physical or any other kind of abuse, but I remember an atmosphere that was devastatingly bleak and where the boys clearly felt hugely intimidated. The sense of gratitude they showed if you were kind to them is what haunted me. I think that is why the shutters of my memory came down. I went back to ordinary school, and I forgot and went on with my ordinary business. The whole of society did that - and in that sense I think we're all to blame for what happened. Not just the Brothers. It's easy to blame the Brothers. "I wrote a piece in the Dublin Review lately on the film Raggy Boy. I knew the book on which it was based: Paddy Galvin in Cork is a very fine poet, and it's based on his experiences. I didn't like the film. It was very well done, a very mainstream professional film, but it made a particular brother into a kind of a scapegoat - he was just evil, and the whole regime and so on was explained by him being evil: remove him and somehow there was no real critique of the society, or the institutions or official policy or anything else. It was just about a madman who, in the end in the film, but not in the book, actually killed the boy." As places of education, Dunne describes the Brothers' schools as being "all about results, about achieving a certain level, about achieving a qualification. In the 19th century, the British Government brought in a scheme of payment for results, and the Brothers were the best in the system at getting results. "As time went on, they were excellent at getting people qualified and out and successful, and I don't think they had time to nurture the other side: the more creative side, or the softer side, or the more joyous side of education. There were exceptions, there were always good teachers - but there was an extraordinary amount of relentless focus on success. And even corporal punishment was justified because you were making sure somebody got out of the bog or got away from the difficult background. "So given that they were the dominant religious teaching order not just in Ireland but in many ways in the English-speaking world for quite a long time, it's sad that they contributed so little to education, to educational thinking, to broadening the thing out to a more humane or more cultured level. When society changed rapidly in the 1960s they were lost, I think a lot of them had great difficulties adjusting." The Brothers' houses, in fact, Dunne said, usually were very gentle environments. "There were a lot of books, people had interests that they followed. One old man was interested in astronomy. They played cards, but they also read books. In the library in Tralee, I remember, I read right through DH Lawrence of all people. "I can still remember that sitting room, in the old house where the hotel is now. It had a big bookcase full of books; if you were a reader it was a lovely place. It was gentle, and had a kindly atmosphere, and I had a good time there with very nice people. "I couldn't understand how people, who at a personal level were terribly friendly, kind and nice, went into school and became raging devils as some of them did. You know: there'd be a man that you knew to be a very gentle, kind man, and you'd see him operating in the class next to you and he was leathering all round him. "'Christian Brothers' is like a shorthand, isn't it, for a lot of people? To use the words is instantly to conjure up something very negative. The Raggy Boy, for example, is interesting in that some of the reviews of it in the national papers actually came out with attacks on the Christian Brothers, even though the Raggy Boy clearly wasn't in a Christian Brothers Institute. "That's very tough for them. Nothing of that is in any way to excuse anything that went on there, and nothing I am saying is to say that people who made complaints have not had reason to. But I do feel sorry for these men, many of them in their 70s and 80s now, who find themselves confronted by accusations about 40 years ago. How can you prove anything from that long ago? At the same time, if someone accuses you it is very hard to escape from it. I have every sympathy for people who were abused and I have a lot of sympathy for the remaining small number of elderly people in these orders. A lot of these men were great teachers, a lot of them were very fine people and to be a Christian Brother now is to be under an awful cloud, and that's not fair." As well as being a personal memoir, Rebellions is also Tom Dunne's challenge, as an historian, to the version of the 1798 Rebellion that was officially endorsed on its 200th anniversary. "My mother's family included two people who were famous: one was Edmund Rice, who founded the Christian Brothers, and the other was his cousin, my great-great-great-great-grandfather John Rice. He was killed in the aftermath of the Battle of New Ross for hiding women and children in a loft in his house. He has a very colourful story, and my mother was always very proud of this. So at the time of the Rebellion's bicentenary, I said I would do a piece on our ancestor's story, mainly to please her. "At the same time as I was doing some work on the family story, the bicentenary celebrations were getting moving. And to my mind, they tried to simplify 1798 into a purely political, idealistic event, a united Irish revolution, and they ignored the reality of the tens of thousands of people who may have been killed, and the awful things that happened, and the sectarianism, and the level of violence - and I got more and more angry about that as the year went on. And the two things got mixed in together in some way. You know, historians are trained to obliterate themselves, if you like: to write as if you were a disembodied spirit and looking down dispassionately on the evidence. But we all know, of course, that the way we write history and read it is very heavily determined by our own background and training. There's and old saying: 'Before you read the history, study the historian.' Normally we don't talk about that, so I decided 'OK. I'm going to be criticising other people, so I'll come out and say this is my background.' "But the reason I have especially targeted the 1798 bicentenary, is that what happened in 1998 went way beyond differences in interpretation. It went to the point where there was a denial of a lot of the realities about 1798 for which the evidence is overwhelming and which has always featured in all previous accounts. There was an attempt to turn it into something abstract which absolutely fitted the Peace Process in Northern Ireland, the Good Friday Agreement and so on, so that instead of having this awful sectarian bloodbath which happened in Wexford over those three hot summer weeks, we had the story of the United Irish Revolution and it was all about idealism, and everything else didn't exist. And if you questioned this, you were attacked. "And that disturbs me a great deal, because I think we now have an absolute distortion of the historical record in order to promote a certain kind of political ideal. And the ideal is wonderful, but if you do that with history, if you do that with the evidence we have from the past, I think you are doing a great disservice to the public in general. "You know, history is a neverending argument. Nobody has all the truth. All you have is the evidence, that you interpret as well as you can." Rebellions: Memoir, Memory and 1798, by Tom Dunne, is published by Lilliput Press, ?20. 
