christianity
{  
    May 05 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/sport/other-sports/shandon-upset-the-odds-and-old-christians-to-take-junior-3-cup-27056679.html }
Shandon upset the odds, and Old Christians, by capturing the Junior Three Cup for the first time in the clubs 25-year history.Old Christians were strongly fancied to add the cup to the league title, won earlier in the season. But, the Whitechurch side rose to the challenge, to snatch the match with a late Shane Quill penalty.Playing with the aid of a strong wind in the Shandon upset the odds, and Old Christians, by capturing the Junior Three Cup for the first time in the club’s 25-year history. Old Christians were strongly fancied to add the cup to the league title, won earlier in the season. But, the Whitechurch side rose to the challenge, to snatch the match with a late Shane Quill penalty. Playing with the aid of a strong wind in the first half, Shandon found themselves five points down to a Gary Feehily try. Brendan O’Connell squared the match when he latched on to a John Hegarty chip. The ‘old boys’ were back in front on 55 minutes, courtesy of a Alan Sheflin try, converted Eoghan Ryan. But, Shandon showed their true mettle, refusing to lie down. Their efforts were rewarded, when substitute, Barry Lenihan charged down an attempted clearance to score a try. However, Old Christians still led 12-10 into injury time and the double was within touching distance. But in a last ditch effort, Shandon surged upfield. The Rathcooney side were forced to concede a penalty in front of the posts and Quill made no mistake as the bells began to ring. Team — Shandon: S Forde, B O’Connell, P McNamara, I Curtin, B O’Donnell, J Hegarty, S Quill, A Quinlan, D Barrett, T Mulcahy, B Humphries, M Milin, J Callaghan, J Cunningham, J Barrett (capt). Sub: B Lenihan. Scorers: B O’Connell try, B Lenihan try, S Quill conv. THE Mansergh Cup final between Charleville and Nenagh Ormond at Clanwilliam proved a bridge too far for the North Cork team. Charleville, still basking in the glory of their recent Munster Junior Plate triumph, kept their opponents scoreless for 50 minutes. But the Tipp team cut loose in the final half hour, scoring five tries and three conversions to win 31-0.  NO joy either for Muskerry’s under-16s — the Ballyanly lads lost out by try to nil at the hands of Highfield, in the final of the South Munster Junior Cup at Musgrave Park.  THE Munster Rugby Summer Camp 2004, will be held at various location‚s throughout the province, during July. The camp is open to girls and boys from under-10 to under-16. The cost of ?100 per child includes a Munster rugby kit pack containing a rucksack, summer camp jersey, shorts and socks. There is a family discount of 10 per cent on second child and 25 per cent on third child. Dates of camps are: July 5 to 9/July 12 to 16 — Coláiste Stiofan Naofa. July 19 to 23 — Mallow RFC. July 19 to 23 — Bandon RFC. July 26 to 30 — Midleton RFC. The camp runs from 10am to 1pm Monday to Friday. The closing date for applications is May 28. For info e-mail summercamp@munsterrugby.ie or telephone (021) 4323693 between 11.30am and 1pm daily.  AS this is the last edition of the season’s ‘Touch Judge’ columms may I take the opportunity of thanking the many who have provided me with material. I also thank them for their kind thoughts, it is much appreciated — have a nice summer. Results — South Munster J3 Cup final: Shandon 13, Old Christians 12. Mansergh Cup final: Nenagh Ormond 31, Charleville 0. South Munster U-16 cup final: Highfield 5, Muskerry 0. 
