christianity
{ David Quinn 
    July 20 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/liberals-are-obstructing-road-to-a-really-meaningful-christian-unity-26305884.html }
THE Gaelic Athletic Association bestrides its world like a colossus. Since its foundation over a century ago it has completely dominated hurling and Gaelic football. I haven't got the foggiest notion about the internal politics of the GAA and know even less about how GAA followers feel about the way the association runs its two codes. But let's suppose for the sake of the argument that someday a sizable number of football and hurling fans decided that they weren't happy with the way the GAA was running things and decided to set up their own rival organisation calling it, say, the Gaelic Athletic Society, or GAS for short. Traditions Let's go even further and suppose that GAS was powerful enough to actually seize some football grounds from the GAA and had the temerity to claim that it and not the GAA was the true representative of the traditions of hurling and Gaelic football in this country. Now, how do you imagine the GAA would react to this? One has to think it would react in much the same way the Catholic Church reacted when Protestantism appeared on the scene almost 500 years ago and challenged its authority. It would fight back (hopefully not violently) and at the very least it would assert that the newcomer was an upstart and that it, namely the GAA, was the one true representative of hurling and Gaelic football. Last week the Vatican issued a document asserting once again its claim that it is the one Church founded by Christ and calling into question the credentials of other Churches, especially the Protestant Churches which it calls 'ecclesial communities'. As is always the case whenever the Catholic Church has the nerve to reiterate an old and exclusive claim like this, there were howls of protest. Such a claim, we were told, is offensive and completely inappropriate when Christian unity should be at the top of every Church's agenda. But in many spheres of life contests rage over who or what is the true representative of this or that idea, person or tradition. They go on in sport where, to name but one split, there are numerous boxing associations all offering rival boxing titles. They also go on in politics, sometimes to violent effect. The left has been bedevilled by rival claims over who is the true representative of, for example, the working class or the trade union movement. They go on between rival nationalist groups all the time. Just check out the history of this country. If these rivalries go on in so many secular spheres, why is it so surprising that they go on in religion as well? With respect to its claim to be the truest representative of Christianity on earth the Catholic Church presents us with a very simple question; did Jesus Christ found a Church or not and if so, which one? Not without justification, the Catholic Church points out that it is the only universal Church which can trace itself all the way back to Christ and the Apostles, and then all the way to the present again through the successors of the Apostles, namely the bishops. At the very least this is a defensible claim and in fact the existence of the bishops, gathered around the Pope, is the best and only guarantee of true Christian unity there is. As we know, Protestantism is prone to endless divisions because there is no central authority that can adjudicate disputes over rival interpretations of the Bible. In the absence of such a body, not only is final unity impossible, the splits can, and will, only get worse. The liberal solution to the divisions within Christianity is to dilute the core doctrines of Christianity and make them all optional extras, except perhaps for belief in Christ. This sounds very neat, except that everyone has core beliefs they don't want to compromise away, and that includes liberals. Right now, the biggest blows against Christian unity are being struck not by alleged doctrinal hardliners like Pope Benedict, but by liberals. In the name of gay rights, for example, liberals are destroying the unity of the Anglican Communion and are driving a wedge between it and both the Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Churches. But they think the price is worth it because, for them, gay rights are non-negotiable. In this respect they believe, nay they know, that they have the truth, the One Truth. Liberals who object to the Catholic Church asserting it is the One, True Church don't really believe that there is no such thing as the Truth, as their uncompromising adherence to all kinds of principles, including gay rights, attests. WHAT they really believe is that they have the Truth and the Catholic Church doesn't, or to put it another way, they believe they are the One True Church. The reason they are angry at the Catholic Church is that it won't surrender to it. What they want, in effect, is a take-over and documents such as the one the Vatican released last week delay what they hope is their inevitable triumph. 
