christianity
{ Hugh Farrelly at Dooradoyle 
    March 18 2008 04:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/schools-rugby/mccarthy-steers-limerick-minnows-to-first-title-26431197.html }
A RESULT to rock the schools game. After winning the junior title last week, Castletroy College stunned favourites CBC Cork to claim their first Munster Senior Schools Cup here yesterday. To put it in context. Christians have been around since 1888 -- Castletroy were founded eight years ago to cater for the increased population in the Limerick city suburb. Christians have won the cup 27 times, producing internationals of the calibre of Donal Lenihan, Donncha O'Callaghan, Terry Kingston and David Corkery -- Castletroy have been playing senior schools rugby for three years and have no playing or training facilities of their own. "It's an amazing achievement," acknowledged a stunned looking John Keehan, who shares the coaching duties with Martin Burke and John Staunton. "The enormity of this won't sink in until next week." This was a cracking final with plenty of quality rugby and, in centre Diarmuid McCarthy, Castletroy had a player who looks destined for future Munster and Ireland honours. McCarthy scored two stunning tries in the semi-final win over Pres and his solo effort yesterday was reminiscent of Brian O'Driscoll when he burst onto the Six Nations scene around the time Castletroy first opened their doors. But this is not a one-man team. Scrum half Peter Murray is just 16 but played with tremendous intelligence and maturity, tormenting CBC with his clever kicking game and darts around the fringes. Outhalf Domhnaill Byrne, full back Cormac Joyce-Power and winger Darren Moroney also shone while Darragh Frawley was a totemic presence in the second row, kicking 11 points. Christians were on the back foot for most of the match but full back Odhran Mulrooney survived an aerial bombardment from Byrne and was threatening with ball in hand, as was winger Darren Loftus, while Brian O'Regan looked elusive with the little ball he got. Up front, flanker Willie Ryan never stopped trying and sub Brian Hayes did extremely well after coming on. Superb Castletroy dominated from the off, robbing the first two Christians throws, before a superb break and off-load from McCarthy nearly ended with Murray scoring under the posts. Christians' cause was severely damaged by losing two key players -- second row Kyle O'Dwyer and number eight and captain Brian O'Callaghan who had a nasty clash of heads when preventing Murray from scoring. Frawley put Castletroy three points up with a magnificent kick from the right-hand touchline and shortly afterwards McCarthy produced his wonder score, converted by Frawley, to leave it 10-0 after 20 minutes. Six minutes later, Moroney set off on a superb 40m run and, after several phases, Murray threaded through a delightful kick which Moroney, fittingly, grounded for 15-0. Christians were rattled but could make no headway against a claustrophobic Castletroy defence, Frawley tacked on another penalty to leave it 18-0 at half time. To their credit, the Cork players started to work their phases and gain a territorial foothold and, 15 minutes into the second period, good work by O'Regan saw Hayes muscle over. Frawley stretched it to 21-5 three minutes later but a Mulrooney penalty and his conversion of scrum half Daryl Foley's try gave Christians a sniff of victory. But Castletroy, with McCarthy again to the fore, pinned Christians into their own half until George Clancy's final whistle sounded to confirm victory. CASTLETROY -- C Joyce-Power; D Moroney, K Clancy, D McCarthy, C Dillon; D Byrne, P Murphy; C Laffan, P Hogan, S Murphy; P Dooley (capt), D Frawley; K Doyle, D Bonfil, E Sweeney. Replacements: J Rael for Hogan (45), D Quinlan for Laffan (49), M Hanrahan for Bonfil (49), D Hannan for Doyle (65). CBC CORK -- D Mulroney; D Loftus, J Holland, B O'Regan, B O'Leary; P Parfrey, D Foley; C Corkery, K Stokes, J Bransfield; J Mulcahy, K O'Dwyer; J Crowley, W Ryan, B O'Callaghan (capt). Replacements: Hayes for O'Dwyer (5), A Joyce for O'Callaghan (5), D Dunne for O'Regan (56). REF -- G Clancy. 
