christianity
{  
    December 31 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/militant-refugee-to-be-sent-back-26420243.html }
JIM CUSACK THE Palestinian militant given asylum in Ireland four years ago after holding 40 Christian nuns and monks hostage at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem could soon be on his way back home. The repatriation may form part of an agreement to kickstart the peace process between Israel and Palestine. Jihad Jaara, 36, was described as one of the leading figures in the Al Aqsa Martyrs group which was responsible for dozens of suicide and other bomb attacks on civilian targets in Israel. His nephew, Ali Jaara, killed 10 passengers on a bus when he blew himself up in Jerusalem in January 2004. Al Aqsa Martyrs have also been accused of abusing the Christian community in Bethlehem and other West Bank towns and of extorting money from Christian businesses. During the April 2002 siege, about 40 Al Aqsa gunmen took control of the Church of the Nativity, which is one of Christianity's most sacred shrines, reputedly built on the grotto where Jesus was born. There has been a church on the site since the fourth century. Despite the group's track record of terrorising both Christians and Jews, Ireland agreed to take two of the Al Aqsa gunmen as part of an EU-brokered deal to break the 39-day siege at the Church. Jaara was joined by Rami Kamel, 27, who married an Irish woman and is entitled to remain here. Jaara, by contrast, has kept up his links with Palestinian groups and, despite supposed restrictions imposed as part of the siege deal, he is understood to have travelled to Spain to meet other Palestinian militants. News of the Israeli-Palestinian deal to allow the return of the Al Aqsa militants was met with dismay by Christians, according to reports. The Jerusalem Post quoted a local Christian businessman as saying: "These men were responsible for a spate of attacks on Christians, including confiscation of property." The return of Jaara and the other 12 militants, however, was welcomed by Muslims in the West Bank who regard them as heroes. 
