christianity
{ Tom Coghlan  in Kabul David Brown and Jenny Booth 
    October 21 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/middle-east/taliban-kills-aid-worker-for-being-christian-26486395.html }
A British female aid worker shot dead on the street in Kabul yesterday had only recently been pulled back to the Afghan capital because of security fears over her charity's Kandahar office. Gayle Williams (34), from London, was gunned down in a drive-by shooting by two armed men on a motorcycle as she walked to work. Taliban militants who claimed responsibility for the shooting accused her of spreading Christianity. Ms Williams worked with the Christian charity Serve Afghanistan. Mike Lyth, the charity's chairman, yesterday paid tribute to Ms Williams as a "wonderful girl" who had found her niche in life through her charity work. She was found lying on the footpath soon after the attack by another member of staff, he said, but she was already dead. "We are devastated by the loss of Gayle, who was a lovely girl," said Mr Lyth. "She was part-South African, part-British, and based in the UK. She was a great adventurer who had done a lot of different things in her life, but this is something where she really felt she had found her niche." He dismissed the Taliban's claims to have targeted Ms Williams for religious revenge as "opportunistic", saying she had only recently arrived in Kabul and had changed her route to work every day. He also denied that Serve preached Christianity. "In Serve, everyone varies their route to work. Daily, that changes. I suspect that this is just an opportunistic claim, as she was taking different ways to work every day. Preaching "Purely from my point of view, this is a case of the Taliban picking up on something. They know we are a Christian agency. We definitely have a policy of no proselytisation, but acting out of the love of Christ for people. We have a policy of not preaching Christianity, so she certainly wasn't involved in that." This was the first killing of a Western aid worker in Kabul, despite several deaths elsewhere in the country. The UK foreign office said that her next of kin had been informed. The spokesman for the Taliban who claimed responsibility said: "Our people carried out this attack in District 3 of Kabul this morning at 7am. "The reason that we killed her was because she was spreading Christianity." According to Mr Lyth, the UK-registered charity has 15 expatriate staff in Afghanistan, in addition to 300 Afghan workers. (© The Times, London) 
