christianity
{  
    June 02 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/spreading-the-good-news-about-jesus-27367023.html }
THE spiritual non-denominational group Listowel Christian Fellowship is currently erecting a new building at Shrone West on the Ballybunion Road, Listowel in order to facilitate group meetings and prayers -  and it is hoped to be open for service in 2005.The new building is voluntarily funded and its goal will be to serve the community.The group leader, science THE spiritual non-denominational group ‘Listowel Christian Fellowship’ is currently erecting a new building at Shrone West on the Ballybunion Road, Listowel in order to facilitate group meetings and prayers - and it is hoped to be open for service in 2005. The new building is voluntarily funded and its goal will be to serve the community. The group leader, science teacher JP Walsh of Cahirdown Listowel, explained a little about the fellowship. “The group emphasises a personal relationship with Jesus as opposed to being just another Christian group,” he said. “We believe that Jesus has the power to change, has the power to heal and make a real difference in our lives. This effects individuals and families and in turn society itself, as the family is the building block of society.” With the demise of Christian values, young people are adrift in a society without absolutes, he says. JP’s wife Fidelma, who also is a member of the church, adds: “It is important for adults to show children that there is more to life than alcohol and materialism. Christianity is not simply rules and regulations. It is God’s power working deep in our hearts.” Personally, JP recalls a bad experience he went through which directed him to Jesus. “In college I got involved in the drug culture and lost perspective and it was then I discovered that I could have a personal relationship with God because of what Jesus did on the cross. The paradox of Christianity is that out of death comes life and Jesus opened up a way for us to become God’s children. Through reading the scriptures my eyes were opened for me. Need brought me to the Lord,” he said. The Christian fellowship is affiliated with the Association of Irish Evangelical Christians in Ireland, a loose association of like-minded groups and churches. However, each group is autonomous and there is no centralised control. The group’s belief centres on the scriptures, especially the books found in the New Testament such as Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, which focus on the life of Jesus and the Acts of the Apostles. “The bible is a foundation stone, we believe the basis for authority is the scripture,” JP said. Every Sunday, the group meet at the Kerry Parents and friends complex located on the Cliveragh Road for worship and the breaking of bread, a simple ceremony to remember the Lord’s death. They also run two Sunday school classes for the children along with mid-week bible study and prayer meetings. Currently, the group has a membership of up to 70 people from Listowel and its hinterland and has been established now for 14 years. “I would encourage people to read the gospel of John and let the life of Jesus speak for itself. We place great emphasis on reading the scriptures. They have a great ability to speak to the heart of man. We are all sinners but the good news is that Jesus is on our side,” he said 
