christianity
{ Paul Whitington 
    January 31 2014 12:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/movies/onward-christian-soldiers-29967668.html }
Most child stars wind up in rehab clinics and are burnt out by the time they're 20, but there are exceptions to this grim prognosis, and Christian Bale is one of them. Bale was working in TV commercials by the time he was eight, made his West End debut opposite Rowan Atkinson at 10, and at 12 was cast by Steven Spielberg in the war drama Empire of the Sun. The exposure attendant on that experience almost put the young Bale off movies for good, but a love of acting kept him involved. And since breaking through in 1999 with a shocking performance as the stylish psychopath Patrick Bateman in American Psycho, Bale has matured into a character actor of genuine range. He's certainly stretched himself in the last couple of months with exceptional performances in two very different films. He's memorably intense in Scott Cooper's thriller Out of the Furnace, which opened here yesterday, playing a desperate man who seeks revenge against a vicious gang that targeted his brother. And Bale's extraordinary performance in American Hustle has earned him a Best Actor Oscar nomination. David O Russell's comic drama stars Bale as Irving Rosenfeld, a wily con artist who's blackmailed by an FBI agent into staging an elaborate sting on corrupt politicians. With a paunch, bad posture, mumbling voice and an outrageous 1970s combover, he is unrecognisable, so much so that his co-star, Jennifer Lawrence, jokingly complained that in their occasional love scenes it was like kissing "fatman, not Batman". It's another exceptional turn from an actor who could easily have gone down the comfortable road of action hero stardom following his success in Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy. But Bale seems driven to constantly test himself in roles that make huge physical and mental demands on him. He pushes himself and expects similar levels of commitment from everyone around him, but his ability to transform himself physically and disappear into roles makes Christian Bale a unique screen actor, one of the best of his time. He turned 40 yesterday, and is very much a star in his prime. He was born in Wales on January 30, 1974, but his father David was an airline pilot, and he moved around a lot as a child. His mother, Jenny James, was a former circus performer, and Christian was drawn to acting after his older sister Louise took it up. He was just eight when he made his debut in a TV ad for Lenor fabric softener. He was angelic-looking, but also had an innate instinct for working with the camera, and soon graduated to acting parts in films. Bale might have come and gone like most child actors if he hadn't been cast in Anastasia: The Mystery of Anna, a 1986 TV movie about the Romanoff dynasty. The film starred Amy Irving, the then-wife of Steven Spielberg. And when Spielberg began casting for his ambitious adaptation of JG Ballard's semi-autobiographical wartime novel Empire of the Sun, Irving recommended Bale for the part of Jim Graham, a British schoolboy who has to fend for himself when he gets caught up in the Japanese invasion of Shanghai. Spielberg's film placed huge demands on the very inexperienced young actor, but his portrayal of Jim was universally acclaimed. And when the film came out in December of 1987, Christian's life was changed forever. He'd hugely enjoyed making the film, but nothing had prepared him for what happened next. "It was horrific," he recalled years later. "I was almost crying in interviews and running away during press conferences, pretending I was going to the bathroom and just disappearing." He seriously considered giving acting up but later relented, and he's recently claimed that it was pressure to make money for his family that changed his mind. "It actually killed my drive of acting," he says, "because it became something I felt like I had to do . . . it's always been a love-hate thing for me because of that, you know? When I love it, I love it. When I hate it, I just can't. It's just disgusting, this vanity-fuelled profession." And maybe it's that ambivalence about his chosen profession that gives Christian Bale his edge. After his parents divorced in 1991, Christian moved to Hollywood with his dad, and began getting small but eye-catching roles in films like Little Women and Velvet Goldmine. Robert De Niro was one of his heroes, and he'd already started using method techniques to prepare for roles. Bale was a nervy 24-year-old when Mary Harron and Bret Easton Ellis cast him as the woman-hating maniac Patrick Bateman in American Psycho (1999). He spent months tanning and training in the gym to play the narcissistic yuppie, and fought hard to keep the part when the producers briefly replaced him with Leonardo DiCaprio. The finished film was spectacularly violent and very controversial. Film critic Roger Ebert called it "disgusting" but also recognised its quality, and said something very perceptive about Bale's performance. "Bale is heroic in the way he allows the character to leap joyfully into despicability," Ebert wrote, adding that "there is no instinct for self-preservation here, and that is one mark of a good actor." It certainly is, and as his star has risen, it's that fearless commitment to roles that has made Bale stand out from the crowd. In 2004, when cast as a tormented factory worker in Brad Anderson's The Machinist, he lost 60 pounds in a couple of months and weighed just 120 pounds during the shoot. Right afterwards, when Christopher Nolan cast him in Batman Begins (2005), he had to put on 100 pounds to play the superhero. Bale had the intensity to match Nolan's dark vision for Batman, whom be played as a deeply troubled and very angry anti-hero. He does take things a bit seriously at times, though, and insisted on doing all his press interviews in an American accent because "Batman is such an American icon". Sometimes, that intensity gets him in trouble. On the eve of the London premiere of The Dark Knight in 2008, Bale had a furious argument with his mother and sister Sharon at the Dorchester Hotel, and apparently no longer speaks to them. And that same year, he flew into a rage on the set of Terminator Salvation when the film's director of photography Shane Hurlbut walked on to the set during a scene. An expletive-laden recording of the incident later found its way into the public domain, and Bale was forced to apologise. But it's noticeable that other stars and directors rushed to defend him, and no one can ever question Bale's professionalism and formidable commitment to his craft. He's a quietly spoken and even shy man who has done his best to keep his private life out of the spotlight. He seems to hate fame as much as he loves acting, and perhaps that's the only sane response to the crazy business of movie-stardom. No joker: Bale at his best Rescue Dawn (2006) Director Werner Herzog was full of praise for Christian Bale's performance in this gritty drama based on the true story of Dieter Dengler, a German who joined the US Air Force during the Vietnam War and was shot down over Laos, captured and tortured. The Dark Knight (2008) Bale managed to more than hold his own against Heath Ledger's Joker in Christopher Nolan's sprawling superhero epic. His gravel voice and bulked-up physique turned the Caped Crusader into a nightmarish and remorseless avenger. The Fighter (2010) Christian won an Oscar for his work on David O Russell's acclaimed boxing drama, playing the nervy, crack-addicted brother of Micky Ward (Mark Wahlberg), an Irish-American boxer whose dreams of greatness are constantly thwarted by his scheming family. PWHITINGTON@INDEPENDENT.IE   Irish Independent 
