christianity
{ Geraldine Bedell 
    May 14 2007 11:56 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/chaos-theory-and-mr-christians-coconut-26288956.html }
Coconut Chaos Diana Souhami Weidenfeld & Nicolson, €22.10 IT SHOULD have been an ordinary voyage, although to modern eyes it is asking for trouble to transport 1,000 breadfruit from Tahiti to the West Indies to feed starving slaves. The ordinariness evaporated at the moment when Fletcher Christian, Captain Bligh's protege, perhaps lover, helped himself to a coconut. Diana Souhami is fascinated by chaos theory and chance encounters, by the pressures of proximity and accidental travels. In retelling the story of the mutiny on the Bounty, she whips together fact and fiction, memoir, travelogue and fantasy: a blend of the invented and investigated which she carries off with engaging and often powerful writing. William Bligh had particularly asked for Christian on the Bounty. They had sailed together twice before. Yet he had humiliated his friend in front of the whole crew even before he decided that the 'theft' of the coconut was a flagrant challenge to his authority. Christian burst into tears and told fellow crew members that if Bligh had him flogged, he'd take him in his arms and jump overboard. It was a curious choice of revenge; tying men together and throwing them into the sea was the usual punishment for homosexuality. Had Christian not slashed open a coconut, Souhami reflects, there would have been no mutiny, no abduction of Polynesian women, no community on Pitcairn Island. The ship sent to catch the mutineers would not have been wrecked and the former Bounty crew would not have murdered each other. The islanders would not have become an isolated and neglected community. When Souhami visited Pitcairn, in 2004, seven of the island's 47 inhabitants were awaiting trial on sex charges. The initiation of girls of 12 or 13 into sexual activity had apparently been going on for a couple of centuries. The six men who were eventually convicted based their (failed) appeals on the argument that British law had never applied to their community. Souhami resists the temptation to write a definitive history of the mutiny and its aftermath. She's content to leave loose ends and space for speculation. In 1790, 15 young men landed on Pitcairn; nine years later, 13 of them had apparently been murdered, either by each other or by Tahitians they had brought with them. But it's her hunch that some escaped. There were rumours of sightings of Christian in England. Souhami sails to isolated Pitcairn, which has no landing strip and can see no ship for eight months, writing up her trip as a lightly fictionalised travelogue. She goes on a freighter with materials for the prison the islanders are building for themselves in case they are convicted. With her is a fiftysomething former actress called Lady Myre, who wears silver leather miniskirts and plastic daffodils in her hair, and apparently has no idea where she's going. With posh bravura, Myre responds to chaos by creating her own little world. Regardless of time zones, she's convinced the correct time is whatever it says on her watch. When the unlikely pair leave Pitcairn on a catamaran that becomes, in a storm, a rudderless boat, they become lovers, thrown together, perhaps, like Christian and Bligh. Souhami's book is dedicated to "the real Lady Myre, wherever she may be". If Coconut Chaos has a fault, it's that Souhami is deliberately vague about modern Pitcairn. We don't know how long she ended up staying (despite quite a lot of build-up about ships seldom calling) and it's difficult to gauge the nature of her relationships with the islanders. She ventures few opinions about the trials, beyond the manifest one that they were vastly expensive and probably not the best way to redress wrongs done over a very long time. She writes disturbingly about the red mud, the diet, the deprivation, the stupid religion, the perhaps necessary masculinity of the men. But no real people emerge. Perhaps she felt that would have been a betrayal of trust. Coconut Chaos is a delight, moreish and funny, balancing between fact and fiction, linking together past and present, action and consequence, history and imagination. In the process, Souhami raises questions about the linear narratives we use to make sense of the chaos around us and, at the same time, revels in them. © Guardian  Geraldine Bedell 
