christianity
{  
    May 15 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/priest-says-christian-brothers-good-work-forgotten-27447767.html }
By Cian McCormack A Nenagh based priest told students and teachers in Nenagh last week that the good work of the Christian Brothers has been forgotten because some of them sinned greviously by abusing those entrusted to their care. Fr Dan Fitzgerald expressed his views at a celebration the bi-centenary of the foundation of the Christian Brothers at a special mass on Friday last in Nenagh. The elderly priest called for people to look at the work the religious order did world-wide, over the past two-hundred years, in comparison to the few cases of abuse which have come to the fore in recent years. “Hundreds of thousands of pupils have been enriched spiritually and intellectually by the dedication of these men. And now because a tiny fraction of these thousands of Brothers have sinned greviously by abusing those entrusted to their care, the enormous good that Blessed Edmund and his followers have accomplished world-wide is forgotten,” said Father Fitzgerald. In his ceremony Fr Fitzgerald highlighted the work of the Christian Brothers and Edmund Rice over the past two hundred years. He said Br Rice’s work came at a time when the majority of Irish Catholics were crushed by Penal Laws and at a time when there was no provision made for the education of poorer chil dren. “History shows and will continue to show more clearly as time goes on all that this country owes to Blessed Edmund Ignatius Rice and his followers,” said Fr Fitzgerald. He said Br Rice, a successful and wealthy Waterford merchant, felt ‘called’ to do something about the large numbers of boys wandering the streets of the city in idleness. “They were poor and undisciplined - spiritually and intellectually deprived without any future,” said Fr Fitzgerald. “What he did about it is really the story of the Irish Christian Brothers. It is a story of self-sacrifice and of enormous achievement. It is a story, unfortunately, for the most part scarcely known by most people. A story that in recent times has been presented in such an unbalanced fashion as to make it a travesty of the truth. “Two hundred years is a long time. In that time thousands of Christian Brothers have answered the ‘call’ to follow Blessed Edmund in the religious life and in the Apostolate of Catholic Education. Hundreds of thousands of pupils have been enriched spiri tually and intellectually by the dedication of these men,” said Fr Fitzgerald. “Now because a tiny fraction of these thousands of Brothers have sinned greviously by abusing those entrusted to their care, the enormous good that Blessed Edmund and his followers have accomplished world-wide is forgotten - ‘is interred with their bones’, and the only news we hear about them is ‘the evil they have done’. “It may have been alright to leave it so for Caesar, but, I for one, cannot leave it so for Blessed Edmund and the Irish Christian Brothers. Because, apart from my preparation for Holy Communion and my learning how to serve Mass, both of which I received from the Sisters of Mercy - all the rest of my education, first and second level - I received for the followers of Blessed Edmund Ignatius Rice. “It covered the period from 1923 - 33. I had about eight or nine different Brothers teaching me during those years. I remember them all with respect - and now in my old age with deep gratitude,” said Fr Fitzgerald. 
