christianity
{ MUNSTER SENIOR CUP  By Tony Ward 
    January 22 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/pres-and-co-lead-crusade-to-stop-christians-march-26099959.html }
HOW to stop Christian Brothers, Cork? That is the poser as Munster's finest set out in search of an unprecedented fifth  Senior title in a row. Back in 1975, with Moss Finn, Jimmy Bowen and Brian Clifford on board, their big Leeside rivals, Presentation Brothers, Cork stopped CBC's gallop and prevented a five-in-a-row. Nothing would give Pres greater satisfaction than repeating the dose. However, it will not be easy for PBC who are in the opposite half of the draw along with Limerick's big two Crescent and St Munchin's. Thus, on paper at least, the draw has been kind to the current holders who are unbeaten since 1996. The competition kicks off on Wednesday with two Mungret Cup games for the weaker teams in the province. St Clement's take on Waterpark College, while St Nessan's meet Coláiste Mhuire, Crosshaven in the top half of the draw. John Sheahan's Limerick charges should prove too strong for a Waterpark side which includes highly promising Munster 'A' flanker Paul Murphy. Equally, current Mungret holders, Crosshaven, will be favoured to get the better of a fast improving St Nessan's outfit. In the lower half the David Corkery coached, Bandon, will be hard pushed to prevent an unbeaten Glenstal team, led by outstanding flanker James Kennedy and inspired by the accurate kicking of Wicklow minor footballer Mark Timmins, making it through to the next stage. Midleton, a current hot bed of rugby, should also prove much too strong for Newtown. I expect Crosshaven and Glenstal to make it through to this year's Mungret final, disposing of St Clement's and Midleton respectively, and thus gain entry to the competition proper. The big guns enter the fray on Friday, February 9, with Mungret qualifiers (probably Glenstal) facing a mighty Rockwell forward unit, which includes final Irish trialists James Clifford, Denis Fogarty and Brendan O'Connor, as well as Brendan Mackey and Daragh Lyons behind. Two days later the first big Limerick v Cork head-to-head features when a young Munchin's side meet a Pres outfit with Fergus Gately up front and Richard Lane in the last line of defence, the two pivotal figures. On St Valentine's Day Crescent Comprehensive, with centre Brian Tuohy and flanker Eoin Griffin the main men, will prove much to strong for the other Mungret qualifiers (probably Crosshaven). Four days later at the opposite end of the draw CBC unveil their 2001 model. Opponents Ard Scoil Rís, powered by massive forwards Stephen Bradshaw and Eddie Molloy (sons of famous rugby fathers), will give it a right good blast. But Christians simply ooze class throughout and, with Thomas O'Leary directing operations at the base of yet another powerful CBC scrum anchored by impressive lock Shane O'Connor they will carry much too much guile and pace for the Limerick school, beaten by Glenstal in the League final. That would make for a Crescent v Pres semi-final at one end, with Crescent, if they get their considerable act together, capable of causing something of an upset. It is a difficult one to call, but I expect Pres to eke out a victory. At the other end, arguably the two best teams in the competition and last year's finalists, Rockwell and Christians clash again, this time at the penultimate stage. Rockwell will perform, but Christians will prevail. All of which would leave us with the classic Cork final and a switch of planned venue from Shannon to Leeside. Whether Fergus Gately can be the one to walk up the Musgrave Park steps and prevent Christians reaching that Holy Grail of five on the bounce, remains to be seen. Either way there is much to be sorted out before we reach that possible scenario. In the meantime, the smart money is on Christians. 
