christianity
{  
    November 12 2015 03:21 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/localnotes/forestry-awards-for-john-and-christian-34187840.html }
Two Wicklow men were recognised at the Irish Forestry Awards in Castletown House, Co. Kildare last week.  John Brady from Aughrim and Christian Osthoff from Glenealy received two of the major honours at the awards last Wednesday (November 4) in recognition of excellence in the forestry sector.  The awards are jointly awarded by the RDS and the Forest Service. Andrew Doyle TD, Chair of the Oireachtas Committee for Agriculture, and RDS President Matt Dempsey were on hand to award John and Christian their prizes. John Brady received the Judges' Special Award in recognition of his outstanding achievements in forestry over the last 50 years.  A native of Rathdangan, Mr Brady started in the timber haulage and harvesting business in 1966 and went on to become successfully involved in what became the Woodfab sawmill. When the Smurfit Group exited the business in 1998, John and one of his late colleagues, Mick Holly, bought out the mill and turned it into a highly profitable enterprise.  Disaster struck in 2010 when the production line was devastated by fire and, while a lesser man might have thrown in the towel, John faced the crisis head on. Today the ultra-modern mill in Aughrim employs 65 people and provides a great outlet for the timber beginning to flow from the new forests being created in the county.    Christian Osthoff received the RDS-Forest Service Leinster Certificate of Merit in Recognition of Woodland Excellence. Christian owns just over 28 hectares of mixed woodland planted about 20 years ago and is actively managing the woodland himself, doing all the work, in order to ensure he continually adds value. The judges commended Christian on his innovation and entrepreneurship.  Christian has designed his own transporter and loading facility that allows for the minimum handling of firewood from forest to customer and he has also developed his own cabinet making and wood machining business.  Wicklow People 
