christianity
{  
    May 15 2015 05:26 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/style/celebrity/celebrity-news/spice-girl-geri-halliwell-ties-knot-with-f1-boss-christian-horner-31226294.html }
Spice Girl Geri Halliwell has married her beau, Formula 1 boss Christian Horner.  Halliwell married Horner today in a ceremony held at St Mary's Church in Woburn, Bedfordshire. Her daughter, Bluebell Madonna, was one of her bridesmaids. Earlier on in the day she posted clues on Twitter and Instagram, in the form of a series of pictures of something old, something new, something borrowed and something blue. 
Close
 British singer and former member of the band Spice Girls Geri Halliwell arrives for her wedding with Formula One motor racing business owner Christian Horner at St. Mary's Church at Woburn in southern England. REUTERS/Toby Melville REUTERS / Comedian Dawn French was pictured going into the church. Former Spice Girl Mel B congratulated her on Twitter, writing: " @GeriHalliwell wishing you the most beautiful special day of your life,I love you xxxx." Halliwell and Horner have been friends since 2009. They have been publicly dating since March 2014, and got engaged in November. They announced their happy news in the births, deaths and marriages page in The Times. Their announcement read: "Mr C.E.J. Horner OBE and Geri Halliwell, The engagement is announced between Christian, son of Mr and Mrs G.M. Horner and Geraldine, daughter of the late Mr L.F. Halliwell and Mrs A. Parkinson." A few days after their official announcement, Halliwell was photographed out and about showing off an impressive diamond ring. Both have children from previous relationships. Halliwell's daughter, Bluebell, is now nine and Horner has a daughter, Olivia, from his previous partner, Beverley, of 14 years. 
Close
 Spice Girl Geri Halliwell after her wedding to Formula 1 boss Christian Horner at St Mary's Church in Woburn, Bedfordshire. Photo: Chris Radburn/PA Wire  PA / Halliwell's former love interests include Russell Brand, Henry Beckwith and David Walliams. In 2005, while she was dating Sacha Gervasi, a screenwriter, she fell pregnant with her daughter. 
Close
 British singer and former member of the band Spice Girls, Geri Halliwell, leaves with her husband, Christian Horner, Red Bull Formula One team principal, following their wedding at St. Mary's Church at Woburn in southern England. REUTERS/Toby Melville REUTERS / Prior to that she had been linked to Robbie Williams, Chris Evans and polo player Jamie Morrison. Before she started dating Horner, she was dating millionaire Anton Kaszubowski. PA Media 
