christianity
{  
    March 16 2009 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/ryan-magic-seals-title-for-cbc-as-brave-rock-fall-short-26521350.html }
A haul of 21 unanswered points in a powerful final 20 minutes helped Christian Brothers College Cork to a deserved victory in the Avonmore Milk Munster Schools Senior Cup Final at Musgrave Park yesterday. Christians picked up the Centenary title, their first since 2003, and go top of the roll of honour on 28 titles after a power-packed display full of enterprise, endeavour and inventiveness. Inspired by man of the match Willie Ryan, the famous Cork nursery posted five tries, including a brace from flanker Ronan Barry, on the day when they outclassed a game Rockwell side. The sides were level at the break after a half when Christians' two tries were cancelled out by the superb place-kicking of Rockwell full-back Paul McEvoy. However, CBC found a different gear after the interval and, camped inside the Rockwell half for long periods, were more direct and precise and took their tries clinically. It's a CBC outfit with few flaws powered by a superb pack. Their front row of Chris Corkery, Kieran Stokes and Damien Attridge were immense, their captain Brian Hayes was at the heart of the action while Willie Ryan gave a towering display from the back of the scrum. Half-backs Brian Slater and Darragh Dunne gave splendid direction and leadership while Joe Holland and Robert Clune were others to shine amongst a very well-rounded Christians outfit. McEvoy kicked 14 points including four superbly struck first half penalties. JJ Hanrahan at outhalf was another who stood up to be counted while Brendan Cullinane, Shane Buckley, James Nolan and Patrick Butler all performed admirably. Christians struck first after six minutes when Dunne created the space for Barry to run over. Joe Holland added the extras but Rockwell, with wind advantage, played the percentages and forced CBC into conceding a raft of penalties. McEvoy confidently found the range in the 10th, 19th and 31st minutes but, minutes before the break, CBC struck back with their second try. Dunne again was involved in the build-up, finding Ryan who put Holland in at the corner but Christians' indiscipline again cost them in injury time, and McEvoy's reliable boot punished the Cork school with his fourth straight kick to leave it stand 12-all at the break. It took Christians until the 14th minute of the second half to find their groove and, when they did, there was no let up from a superbly-drilled outfit. Barry ran in his second after a great burst from Stokes, Robert Clune took a great line in the 64th minute before Dunne capped off a golden period for Christians with a fine score. Late in the half, a gutsy 'Rock' side claimed their only try, when Shane Buckley blocked a CBC clearance in the end zone and McEvoy converted. CBC: R Clune; E O'Donnell, B O'Leary (S Barry 66), J Holland, G Mackesy (C Quinn 47); D Dunne, B Slater (J Maloney 68); C Corkery (M O'Mahony 71), K Stokes (R Martin 71), D Attridge (E O'Sullivan 68); B Hayes (capt), S Hanbridge; E Doyle, R Barry (Y Browne 71), W Ryan. ROCKWELL: P McEvoy; K O'Dwyer (R Mullane 71), D Ryan, B Smith, W O'Connor (B O'Rahelly 71); JJ Hanrahan, E Ahern (T Rafferty 71); T Doyle (C O'Donnell 51), L O'Donnell (C O'Donnell 37), B Cullinane; S Buckley, S O'Flynn (L Horgan 51); S Maguire, J Nolan (J Lonergan 68), P Butler. Ref -- P Fitzgibbon (MAR). 
