christianity
{ Emer O'Kelly 
    February 28 2015 10:42 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/richard-dawkins-versus-the-christians-who-wins-31030763.html }
Richard Dawkins has an unsurpassed knack for getting up people's noses. It's probably because the man has a genius for communication. Academics, whether scientists or philosophers, frequently speak and write in dense, esoteric terms that go over the heads of all but the most dedicated of followers. Dawkins is different. He makes himself understandable to all, and in exposing what he sees as the dangerous and cruel myth of the godhead… any godhead… he has become one of the world's most revered/hated figures, He is, "by trade", an evolutionary biologist, a field of highly technical scholarship, and he came to Dublin during the week to lecture at Trinity on genetics, Darwinism, and "misconceptions about science". But the questions, and the subsequent publicity, concentrated on his views on the dangers of religious indoctrination of children. And once again, the man who is frequently accused of intemperate arrogance by those who oppose him was utterly unruffled by, even tolerant of, those who seem to consider him the Anti-Christ. Dawkins told his audience that it was "futile" to debate with people who put the Bible ahead of scientific evidence. "You have to write off those people." It was a simple acknowledgement of the power of faith. One might think that defenders of traditional religion, particularly of Christianity, would be happy that the man who has been called the world's leading atheist, acknowledges the invincibility of their faith. But of course it did not, and does not, because faith is irrational and therefore is unlikely to be learned through the power of reason and analytic thought. It must be instilled before reason develops, and people of faith either consciously or subliminally feel threatened by those for whom the power of reason is paramount... and provides a code to live by. Dawkins deals with faith in the most dangerous manner possible: lightheartedly. He doesn't offer complex learned theories, he doesn't produce scientific formulae to back his passionate belief in scientific proof as the way forward. On this occasion he used it in defence of the campaign by Atheist Ireland for the separation of Church and State in our education system. "Children need to be protected so that they can have a proper education and not be indoctrinated in whatever religion their parents happen to have been brought up in." Dawkins (although his wife is from the North) may not even know that in Ireland people somewhat quaintly believe that "multi-denominational" or "non-denominational" schools are not religious. The use of the word "denomination" automatically implies a religious ethos, which would be recognised in any society which understood secularism as it is defined by people like Dawkins. It is arguable that the simple logic preached and used by Dawkins offends people because it transcends the personal: it's easy to accuse one man, however eminent and reasonable, of being guilty of distorting truth. Unfortunately in this as in so many other cases that defend reason and secularism, the man is backed by internationally accepted precepts. Within the past year, the United Nations Human Rights Committee effectively came down on Ireland like a ton of bricks concerning our education system. It expressed serious doubts as to Ireland's education system complying with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, because it gives religious patrons "a near monopoly on vital public services". And the purpose of religious schools, it added, is to evangelise and indoctrinate. It's accepted even by humanists/atheists that religious institutions have the right to indoctrinate and evangelise: they just don't want them to deny that this is what they do. And, of course, they want an alternative, which does not exist in Ireland. The forthcoming referendum on marriage equality is a case in point: most of those who oppose its passing deny vehemently that they do so for religious reasons. And even the Catholic Archbishop of Dublin, Diarmuid Martin, criticised "self-appointed church spokespersons (who) use language which is insensitive and over-judgmental". Where the Church argues from general principles he added, there is inevitably the feeling on the part of others that it is somehow against the concrete individual men and women who have a different viewpoint. But it's not the first time that Dr Martin's compassionate and reasonable voice has been out of tune with official Church teaching. Pope Benedict, for instance, described homosexuals, the people whom the marriage equality referendum will benefit, as "intrinsically disordered". Meanwhile, Pope Francis was quick to backtrack on a statement he made that gave hope to homosexuals that the Church might be softening that position. And only last week, an organisation calling itself the Alliance for the Defence of the Family and Marriage has been distributing leaflets which claim that "persecution of Christians will surely follow and it will become a crime to teach and preach Christianity", following on the giving of marriage rights to gays. The chairman of the Alliance is Richard Greene of the Christian Solidarity Party. The leaflet also claims that the sexual abuse of children and adolescents will "double" if same-sex marriage is accepted, sex abusers will use marriage and adoption rights to get access to victims. In passing, the leaflet does express what some people might interpret as concern and compassion: it worries that same-sex couples die younger, and are more prone to cancer, depression and suicide. Coming from avowed Christians, that might once again prompt Stephen Fry's recent question: what kind of all-loving god would "blight" people with the homosexual scourge? So who has charity: the atheists Richard Dawkins and Stephen Fry… or the Alliance for the Defence of the Family and Marriage and the Christian Solidarity Party? Sunday Independent 
