christianity
{  
    September 16 2007 03:54 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/republicans-take-gamble-on-god-void-candidates-26318128.html }
FOR nearly three decades, the Republican party has built its election victories in the United States on the power of the Christian Right. But now it is facing the prospect of a "God void" by selecting a presidential candidate who is not a churchgoer. In a recent Gallup poll, 55 per cent of Americans said they went to church at least once a month. Neither the thrice-married Rudy Giuliani nor the twice-married Fred Thompson, the two front-runners for the party's nomination, go to church regularly. John McCain, also a divorcee, once described evangelical leaders as "agents of intolerance". All have made clear that they will not follow the example of President George W Bush, who spoke openly about God on the campaign trail. When asked in a debate which "political philosopher or thinker" he identified with most, he replied: "Christ, because he changed my heart." The only deeply religious Republican candidate currently in contention is Mitt Romney. His Mormon Church, however, is regarded as a cult by many Christian conservatives, particularly Baptists in the Deep South. Mike Huckabee, a Baptist former pastor, is a distant fourth in Republican polls. Many conservative Republicans had expected Mr Thompson to fill the God void when he jumped into the race this month. Then he revealed to reporters in South Carolina: "I attend church when I'm in Tennessee. I'm in McLean right now [a suburb of Washington]. I don't attend regularly when I'm up there." George Will, a conservative columnist, commented afterwards: "'Right now'? He has been living 'up there' in that upscale Washington suburb, honing his 'Aw, shucks, I'm just an ol' Washington outsider' act, for years. Long enough to have noticed that McLean is planted thick with churches." Mr Thompson also trumpeted how he had learned his values from the "good Church of Christ". But when asked to elaborate by a voter, he responded that it was his way "not to talk about some of these things". The two leading Democratic candidates, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, are regular churchgoers who have been married only once. Mrs Clinton has spoken about the power of prayer and said that her "faith was crucial to the challenges I faced" when her husband Bill was unfaithful. A campaign radio advertisement in Nevada declared: "Barack Obama is a Christian man". Robert Parham, the director of the Baptist Centre for Ethics, which advocates the separation of religion and politics, said: "Christian Right leaders recognise the moral liabilities with some of their top candidates and had hoped that Fred Thompson could be a solution. "They apparently did not do enough research. Republicans and the preachers on the Christian Right have a conundrum. They have claimed that they are the party of providence but now most of their first tier don't share one of their core values, which is church attendance. "On the other hand, the top Democratic candidates all appear to have proven substantive records of authentic church involvement." Leading Republican evangelicals, however, argue that this does not mean that their flock will flip towards Democrats next year, when Christian conservatives are likely to be nearly 30 per cent of 120 million who vote. "Ronald Reagan wasn't a regular churchgoer and he was divorced," said Gary Bauer, a Christian Right leader who ran for president in 2000. "President Jimmy Carter is by any measure a serious evangelical and somehow Bill Clinton found time to go and be seen in church. "But today neither of those would be able to get any significant vote from people really motivated by their faith. Voters are looking for somebody that they can agree with on the definition of marriage and on life and religious liberty and the larger war on Islamo-fascism." Mr Giuliani, who favours abortion rights, currently leads the Republican field, while Mr Thompson's initial poll bounce has brought him to within striking distance. Both men, however, will struggle to motivate the core group of Christian evangelicals who voted three to one to re-elect Mr Bush in 2004. HASH(0x8c201e4) 
