christianity
{ Colum Kenny 
    December 22 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-meek-will-not-reform-church-26246227.html }
There is little sign so far of a gentle uprising by the Irish clergy and laity similar to that which has occurred in the US, writes  Colum Kenny THE Irish Catholic hierarchy must be hoping that 2003 will be happier than the year just ending. If any bishop thought that the accusations against clergy could not get much worse, he will have been shocked last Friday by fresh revelations about a priest's possible involvement in the IRA bombing of Claudy village in 1972. Now, an allegation of murder is added to the accusations of rape against clergy. Dr Sean Brady, archbishop of Armagh, has expressed "absolute horror" at the possibility that it is true. Meanwhile, an internal enquiry by the Catholic Church into sex abuse has collapsed. The Hussey Commission decided to wind itself up on the grounds that the State is set to begin a similar investigation into clerical sex abuse. The Hussey Commission's collapse will be a relief for any bishop who feared future confrontations with a body established by the hierarchy itself. From now on, any dispute over diocesan files or other matters will be solely with those people who are to be appointed by the government. Such a dispute, if it occurs, can be represented as a principled clash between Church and State on matters of confidentiality and independence. The winding up of the Hussey Commission came at the end of a week that heard calls for the resignation of the Archbishop of Dublin, following the fall of Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston. But the problems facing the Catholic Church in Ireland do not revolve around a particular man, and even the terrible scandal of child sex abuse is just one aspect of them. The retirement of Cardinal Desmond Connell would not solve those problems. Bishops Joseph Duffy and Michael Jackson of Clogher point to the deeper issues in their joint Christmas message. They say that "Christians are easily discouraged and slip into bouts of negative fatalism and scattered activism". Their Graces identify one reason why people are depressed: "The largely secularised culture which is ours today seeks to isolate committed Christians and to blot out the Divine in human relationships". But the bishops do not add that many of the laity are at least as discouraged by their own church leaders as they are by secularised society. Some lay Christians experience the church's way of doing things as being out of touch with normal life experience and with their hearts. In these circumstances, people create personal strategies for spiritual survival. The bishops of Clogher fear that "we could get used to a vague form of Christianity that lacks any real reference to Christ and his Church". But, in the United States, a major new lay organisation has been founded precisely to reform the Catholic Church and to make it more relevant. Called Voice of the Faithful, its efforts are being resisted by some bishops. Voice of the Faithful described the resignation of Cardinal Law of Boston as "a sad, but necessary, step in the healing process". Law was a lumbering giant of the Catholic Church. Like Cardinal Desmond Connell, he has been seen as a loyal and unquestioning supporter of the present Pope's agendas, both organisational and theological. But calls for Connell's resignation were rejected last week. Even survivors of sexual abuse were divided on whether or not he should go, with some survivors feeling that he is best placed to provide solutions while still in office. He has many questions to answer, but generally chooses to avoid media interviews, and stands accused of deviousness by his detractors. Last week, a priest who had accompanied Marie Collins to a meeting with Connell in 1996 reportedly confirmed her unhappy memories of that encounter. Ms Collins, whose dignified public statements have made her one of the best-known survivors of abuse, alleges that Connell misled her and wants him to resign. In response to such calls, the Dublin Diocesan Press Office released two high-profile statements supporting the Cardinal. One was from Fr Martin Cosgrove, chairman of the Dublin Council of Priests, and the other from David Kennedy, formerly chairman of Aer Lingus and now chairman of the Dublin diocesan advisory panel on complaints of child sexual abuse. Fr Cosgrove claims that clerical morale has actually risen among priests in Dublin during the past five years. Cosgrove now says that he has never experienced anything like the level of support from priests to his statement last week. He predicts, "the Dublin priests will not be following the example of Boston. The circumstances are very different indeed". For his part, David Kennedy proclaims that "all substantive recommendations made by this independent panel on the handling of clerical sex abuse cases in the Dublin archdiocese have been accepted in full by Cardinal Desmond Connell". Kennedy's panel operates independently, but its membership was selected by Connell himself. There is little sign of a gentle uprising by the Irish clergy and laity similar to that which has occurred in the United States. While Irish survivors of child sexual abuse have been eloquent and effective in their campaign for justice and accountability, most of the laity seem resigned to the continuation of existing structures. The American Voice of the Faithful is a moderate movement, which loudly proclaims its loyalty to the Catholic Church. Despite this fact, it has put the heart crossways in some church authorities. That is so partly because it challenges the way in which money is managed within dioceses. When sex abuse scandals broke in the USA, donations to churches and Catholic charities dropped. Concern about how Irish bishops manage money surfaced when Bishop Eamon Casey was found to have "borrowed" diocesan funds to make payments to his former lover and their son. It remains unclear how much church money has been used to settle legal actions for child abuse. The reluctance of bishops and their lawyers to be open about sex abuse settlements may be intended to limit financial damage to the church but it does untold damage to the institution's moral standing. Voice of the Faithful has become an alternative channel for donations to Catholic charities in the Boston region. In this and other ways, it defines its mission as being "to provide a prayerful voice, attentive to the Spirit, through which the Faithful can actively participate in the governance and guidance of the Catholic Church". Voice of the Faithful accepts the teaching authority of the Catholic Church, "including the role of bishops and the pre-eminent role of the Pope as the primary teachers and the leaders of the Church". But it also holds that "the laity has the dignity, the intelligence, and the responsibility (even the obligation) to assist bishops in trying to discern where God is calling us today and to co-operate in the decision-making processes of the Church in a meaningful way". As chairman of the Dublin diocesan council of priests, Fr Michael Cosgrove believes that Irish priests and laity have "far more opportunities" to speak within the Irish Catholic Church than was the case 20 years ago. He regards existing, elected parish councils as good places within which to discuss any issue about which Irish Catholics are concerned. There is no evidence that the majority of practising Irish Catholics have a burning desire to reform their church. Some, who find little liturgical or intellectual inspiration within the institution, console themselves with general Christian teachings. And a growing number of Irish people see no point at all in organised religion, being distracted by secular attractions and scandalised by stories of clerical abuse or episcopal cover-ups. In their message for Christmas, the bishops of Clogher say that, "Even in our own country which was evangelised so long ago, we find it difficult to see the reality of a Christian society, measured explicitly on the values of the Gospel". To their Graces, "the danger is that we could get used to a vague form of Christianity that lacks any real reference to Christ and his Church". The bishops believe that this danger arises partly from the watering down of traditional denominational teachings at school, in the light of "ever-increasing ethnic diversity" and pluralism. Yet, what their Graces regard as "a vague form of Christianity" may in fact be a sincere attempt by some of the faithful to come to terms with Christ's message in a plausible fashion. This is especially so when the particular part of Christ's church that is Catholic seems preoccupied with the preservation of arcane and unrepresentative hierarchical structures, and the saving of ecclesiastical bacon. The Voice of the Faithful website is at www.votf.org/ 
