christianity
{  
    August 17 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/force-feeding-prejudice-with-liberal-concessions-26243415.html }
Ruth Dudley Edwards on the cap badge row that  symbolised intolerance MOHAMMED Assaoui, who is 38 and lives in Essex, is as easily offended as our own dear Shinners. As a trainee traffic warden, he took umbrage at his cap badge, resigned and complained of discrimination: his gripe was that the St Edward's Crown pictured on the badge had a tiny cross at the top. This story came to light when Ian Blair, deputy commissioner of the Metropolitan Police who is as right-on as his namesake in Downing Street wrote to the police authority to say that "alternative badging" would be allowed "where an objection to Christian symbols is raised by an individual, supported by some degree of proof". The general public took this as badly as did the police federation, for while the British public are proud of their traditional tolerance and are relaxed about the proliferation of mosques and temples and shrines, they get very fed up when tolerance appears to be one-way. The average Brit expects that most days you have to put up with something you don't like, which is okay as long as everyone else does so, too. He gets cross with people who bang on about their rights and downright angry with people like IRA supporters and mad mullahs who choose to live in Britain yet threaten war against the State. Like their Irish equivalents, Brits want their governments to treat immigrants like house guests. It's your house, you welcome people into it, you try to be sensitive and not offer beef to Hindus and pork to Muslims, but you make it clear that if they don't obey the house rules they're out. If the guests are appreciative, take the trouble to learn English, and adapt to their host's way of life and make themselves useful around the place, the hosts will become fond of them and, in time, the guests will be encouraged to make suggestions about how the house could be improved and perhaps in time will become hosts themselves. What makes hosts really mad is when some of the guests rubbish the decor and demand a make-over. And what makes the hosts even madder is when the guests complain to authority and authority pronounces that in any dispute between hosts and guests, in the name of tolerance and political correctness, hosts should give way. Take off the wall the picture of the Sacred Heart as it offends non-Christians and aesthetes. Remove the portrait of Auntie Mary as Muslims don't approve of representational art, although the Hindus will not be asked to conceal pictures of their favourite god. The rosary is no longer to be said in the living-room because it will offend Mohammed, who keeps his prayer mat there and uses it five times a day. In the view of the average Brit, even if his is an increasingly secular society, its culture and values are Christian and there is nothing wrong with that: to him, Christianity spells rationality, humanity and tolerance. He's too polite to say it's superior to other religions, but as he looks at the illiberality of most Muslim states, at the toleration of anti-Muslim violence by the Hindu government in India, at the devastation wrought throughout the old Soviet Union by militant atheism and so on and on and on, he feels comfortably that his Christian or post-Christian society is doing fine. As the success of the Queen's Jubilee demonstrated, most British citizens black, white and Asian are proud of the continuity, stability and tradition of British society and few of them want this undermined by ill-thought-out concessions to people whose own countries have proved unable to offer them safety or work, but who've brought their prejudices with them. The day the story about the concession on police cap badges broke, a cosmopolitan British friend sighed and said: "Race relations set back yet again by the stupidity of the liberal Establishment." Another emailed that although a libertarian, he had come to the conclusion "that people of non-Christian or Jewish backgrounds have no understanding, or love for, choice or liberty". Actually, he's on rocky ground here; there are nasty fundamentalist Christians and Jews, too, but there's no getting away from the fact that of all the significant groups in the United Kingdom, Muslims and Northern Irish republicans are the least tolerant: you'd find it hard to find many British Hindus or Buddhists or Sikhs demanding that society be refashioned in their image. The problem is that rather than getting tough with the loony Muslim fringe, the liberal establishment prefer to appease them with idiotic concessions. The outcry over Mohammed Assaoui and the discovery that no Muslim policemen had a problem with the badges caused Ian Blair to retreat. But this is a small setback for him and his ilk, who have damaged police effectiveness by force-feeding them a diet of political correctness. Like the Irish equality industry, such pusillanimity feeds minority delusions and majority anger. 
