christianity
{ William Rees-Mogg in  London 
    October 07 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/muslims-feeling-of-impotence-fuels-bin-ladens-hateful-jihad-26070367.html }
THE WEST does not understand Islam, and Islam does not understand the West. The starting point in considering the religious implications of the present world emergency is to have respect for Islam, and to ask Muslims to have respect for the other great traditions of the world. Islam is a great religion, which the terrorists pervert, and the fundamentalists mistake. From its very beginning, Islam has been able to work through the society of its time. If there is one most striking difference between the Prophet Muhammad and the other founders of great religions, it is his more involved concern for the practical problems of contemporary life. Because of this, Islam is a more comprehensive religion in its claims than Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism or even Judaism. Sometimes Islam has been far ahead of other religions in its ability to understand the contemporary world. In the Middle Ages, an inhabitant of Cairo might well have looked down on a London merchant as a quasi-literate barbarian, and legitimately so. At other times, and in particular countries, Islam has found it more difficult to come to terms with contemporary reality. All religions have to make these changes, or they shrivel into mere antiquarian curiosities. Christians, however, have a great advantage. We cannot fail to have a better understanding of this modern world because so many Christians live and work in it. The leading country of the new global civilisation is the United States, where Christianity is the majority religion. Yet even in the United States there are Christians, particularly among the Protestant fundamentalists, who have not come to terms with Darwin's Origin of Species, first published in 1859. If some Christians still have difficulty with the science of the 19th century or the economics of the 18th, it is not surprising that the new global age should seem uncongenial to the tribesmen of the Hindu Kush. Nevertheless, it is not the lack of knowledge but the lack of power which is the fishbone in the throat of Islam. To quote leading Islamic scholar Ebrahim Moosa: "Most Third World countries in which Muslims find themselves today have lost the agency to determine their own futures under the dominant and national economic, financial and political institutions ... foreign powers or dictatorships relentlessly attempt to defeat the spirit of resistance of the Muslim masses. "Tragically, resistance to such oppressive forces manifests itself in violent reactions of rage and anger. In order to legitimise the use of violent and corrosive measures, religious discourse is used to validate the new forms of resistance." For Christianity the modern age represents a threat of scientific materialism and consumerism to religious truth. To Islam, that materialist challenge is equally serious. All religious people, in all religions, perceive that the idol of the modern marketplace has a hollow heart, as did the idol of Roman imperialism when Christianity first emerged. For Islam, however, the challenge is also one of power. The strength of the West and the weakness of Islamic countries adds bitterness to Islam's religious rejection of the values of McDonald's, Wall Street and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Over the years, I have known a number of Egyptian intellectuals, people with a deeply rooted civilisation and a full understanding of this modern world. They have all been absolutely opposed to terrorism, which they have experienced in their own country. Yet every one of them understands the motives which have built support for Osama bin Laden, for the Taliban, for the terrorist groups and for Islamic religious fundamentalism. These motives include the fear that the new global consciousness is undermining Islam, but also resentment that the Islamic powers are impotent, and that Islamic governments are repeatedly put in the position of being the puppets of the United States. I do not think that bin Laden can succeed in his strategy. His aim is too grandiose; he will fail unless he can become a sort of anti-Pope to the Islamic world, and Islam does not even have a Pope. His base of power in Afghanistan depends upon a segmented tribal society, with a tradition of war matched by an equally impressive tradition of betrayal. His drama is that of bin Laden against the world. In such contests the world usually wins. Above all, bin Laden will fail because he is a bad Muslim, a blasphemer, an evil man. Anyone who reads the Koran or studies the life of the Prophet will know that this madness has no place in the religion of Islam. In face of the new world, many Muslims have indeed become more conservative in the practice of their religion. Islam has not been converted to bin Laden's demonic view of his own role. Whatever the outcome of the military actions now being taken, bin Laden is likely to prove to be one of those figures in history who are doomed to destroy themselves. In this process, the most important requirement for the West is to recognise the validity of the Islamic tradition. The most important requirement for Islam is to come to a better understanding of the environment in which all of us are condemned to live. The wickedness of bin Laden's strategy is that he wants to create a world war between Islam and the other nations. In defeating that strategy, both the global coalition and Islam need to adopt a policy of reconciliation and understanding. In his last sermon, in which he announced his impending death, the Prophet Muhammad declared: "I admonish him who will succeed me as ruler over my Community that he be merciful to the Community of Muslims. He should not harm them and thus debase them, nor should he impoverish them and thus expose them to infidelity." This is as far as you can get from the teachings of bin Laden. (The Times, London) 
