christianity
{ Grainne Cunningham and  Ben Quinn 
    April 05 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/christian-brothers-accuesed-of-insensitivity-over-celebration-26050715.html }
AN APOLOGY to all who suffered child sexual or physical  abuse while in the care of the Christian Brothers will be offered at a special mass this weekend to mark the  bicentenary celebrations of the order. The international weekend of events, entitled Share the Vision, is being held by the Christian and Presentation Brothers to mark the 200th anniversary of the founding of their orders by Edmund Rice. About 500 people from 36 countries will take part in a two-day conference, which will offer members of the Edmund Rice network an opportunity to reflect on the current work of both congregations and explore various options for the future. The weekend will conclude with a mass on Sunday attended by 2,000 people, mostly lay members of the Edmund Rice network. According to a statement issued yesterday by the Christian Brothers, "the issue of child abuse will be acknowledged at various points in the mass". Brother Daryl Barclay, will reiterate the apology of the Brothers "to all who were abused or who suffered in any way while under their care". However, the Christian Brothers turned down a request from the lobby group Survivors of Child Abuse (SOCA) to read a statement at the mass. "The text of the statement was considered at great length and it was felt to be inappropriate to this liturgical event," a spokesman said last night. He said it was believed that including such a statement would "fundamentally change" the focus of the mass. He also highlighted the steps the Christian Brothers have taken to respond to child abuse, including the publication of a statement in 1998, where the congregation expressed great sorrow for any abuse that had occurred. Brothers have always been willing to meet former residents who suffered while under their care, counselling services have been provided and pastoral assistance has been offered to people in situations of need, he said. The Christian and Presentation Brothers remain open to dialogue with any person or organisation concerned with child abuse. The leadership of both congregations is open to further meetings with SOCA or other groups to try to work towards healing and reconciliation, said Brother Barclay. However, SOCA co-ordinator John Kelly accused the order of "ignoring us" this weekend and said it was inappropriate to arrange a "jamboree" where members of the congregation would be "slapping each other on the back" at this sensitive time. SOCA members have called on the Irish public to support them in a protest at the bicentenary event, which opened at the RDS in Dublin last night. 
