christianity
{ Deborah McAleese 
    March 27 2015 11:32 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/courts/we-couldnt-make-a-gay-marriage-cake-before-god-christian-bakers-31101168.html }
THE Christian owners of a bakery at the centre of a landmark legal battle said they could not "stand before God" and produce a cake supporting gay marriage. During day two of the high profile case centring on the clash between religious beliefs and equality rights, three members of the McArthur family, who own Ashers Bakery, took to the witness box. They defended their decision to refuse an order for a cake from a gay activist on the basis of their Christian values. The company's two directors, husband and wife Colin and Karen McArthur, attended court with their manager son Daniel and his wife Amy. Sitting on the opposite side of the courtroom was Gareth Lee, the gay activist whose order for a cake with the slogan 'Support Gay Marriage' and an image of Bert and Ernie from 'Sesame Street' was refused by the Newtownabbey bakery. Mr Lee launched a civil case against Ashers, with the assistance of the Northern Ireland Equality Commission, claiming unlawful discrimination. Daniel McArthur said as a Christian he believes that "gay marriage is contradictory to the Bible". "We felt as Christians we could not in conscience put it on a cake. We believe the business is being given to us by God and how we use it is on our shoulders," said Daniel McArthur. "We weren't doing it in defiance of the law. We don't know the ins and outs of the law. Our Christian faith is the utmost importance to us. Before God, it is not something we could do." His mother Karen McArthur, a company director, said she took Mr Lee's money and gave him a receipt as she "did not want to embarrass him or have a confrontation in the bakery." Mrs McArthur said her problem was with the message, because as a Christian she does not support gay marriage. Her husband Colin McArthur said he struggled with the decision."On that day, I didn't make a clinical decision. I was examining my heart." Counsel for Ashers Bakery, David Scoffield QC, told the court that "as a matter of pure domestic law, properly analysed, there is no discrimination in this case. This is a clear case where there has been no discrimination against the plaintiff on the basis of any characteristics he possesses. The reason for declining was that they could not in conscience provide a product supporting a cause inconsistent with their sincerely held religious beliefs." The case has been adjourned until Monday. Irish Independent 
