christianity
{  
    October 29 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/unchristian-bias-against-brothers-25928347.html }
Sir - Up to now it has been normal practice of the Christian Brothers not to respond to articles written about them by Mr Bruce Arnold. However, he has yet again  crossed the boundaries of decency and fairness  (Comment, October 27) to such an  extent that some response is warranted. Sir - Up to now it has been normal practice of the Christian Brothers not to respond to articles written about them by Mr Bruce Arnold. However, he has yet again crossed the boundaries of decency and fairness 
(Comment, October 27) to such an extent that some response is warranted. We issued our recent statement in response to the organisation LOVE which must have as much right to speak on the issue of child abuse as any other. Our intention was neither to 'whitewash' nor to 'evoke sympathy' as Mr Arnold would have readers believe. It is fascinating that his intolerance of other points of view also targets fellow journalists. While no words can adequately describe the experiences or outcomes of sexual abuse, that should not invalidate any attempt to describe the positive experiences and outcomes of lives lived in residential institutions. Contrary to his statements and innuendos, the Christian Brothers have not destroyed, either deliberately or accidentally, any evidence concerning residential institutions. For Mr Arnold to write of "the manifest evil of the total membership of all of the Orders" is a manifest absurdity. It creates a context for his arguments which renders them not merely offensive but lacking all credibility. His accusations of a collective amnesia for all that was wrong or inadequate do not stand up to scrutiny of public statements and actions by the Christian Brothers and others in recent years. We do not use teams of lawyers and publicity spokespersons to criminalise or exonerate anybody. We simply seek truth and justice. Openness and transparency should not be the victims of highly professional people. Incidentally, it is quite inaccurate to assume that the Christian Brothers have "teams of publicity spokespersons". The recent statement by the Christian Brothers was not an attempt, nor did it purport to be an attempt, "to rewrite the history of sexual abuse". Mr Arnold concludes his article by stating that "the Christian Brothers and other member groups of CORI" are blocking criticisms. Not so, Mr Arnold, not so! In future, please present the many aspects of an immensely complex matter in a more balanced way so that all may receive justice with truth even those you may not love. Brother Edmund Garvey, Christian Brothers, Director of Communications, Dublin 7 
