christianity
{ Kathy Marks on Pitcairn Island 
    September 29 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/cloak-of-secrecy-lifted-on-island-rape-accused-25900104.html }
STEVE Christian, mayor of Pitcairn Island and a descendant of Fletcher Christian, the Bounty's first mate, yesterday went on trial for a string of child rapes after being stripped of the cloak of anonymity that has protected him for 18 months. Christian (53) was the first of seven Pitcairn men to go to court charged with a total of 55 offences against girls in the tiny, isolated community founded by the other mutineers. Prosecutors were set to allege yesterday that Christian was the driving force behind a culture of systematic sexual abuse dating back decades in Britain's most far-flung territory. That culture allegedly targeted girls who had barely entered puberty as well as children several years younger and, in one case, a girl of five. Charming, clever and charismatic, Christian has wielded supreme authority on the island - whose population numbers just 47 - since his teens. But the Pitcairn public prosecutor, Simon Moore, was preparing to claim yesterday that the island's tribal chieftain was a man whose personal magnetism concealed dark secrets. Christian, whose sister Brenda is the local police officer, is charged with six counts of rape and four of indecent assault, allegedly committed between 1964 and 1975. At a hearing on the eve of the trials in the threadbare wooden courthouse, where a picture of the Queen is flanked by a Union flag and a dark blue Pitcairn ensign, Justice Russell Johnson lifted an order that has prevented identification of the seven defendants since they were charged in April last year. Christian's son Randy (30) is among the defendants. So is his father-in-law Len Brown (78), who is charged with raping a girl twice when he was a middle-aged man in the late 1960s. Brown's son Dave (49) is also facing 13 indecent assault charges and two counts of gross indecency with a child. The Brown family is descended from the Bounty's assistant botanist, William Brown. Postmaster Dennis Christian (49), his best friend Terry Young (45), and Jay Warren (48), a former magistrate and leading member of Pitcairn society, are all descended from 'Bounty' crew members and all face charges. All seven men are out on bail, and mingling freely in a community where no one lives more than 400 yards from anyone else. Six more men will go on trial next year after being extradited from Australia and New Zealand. (© Independent News Service) 
