christianity
{  
    March 24 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/the-aftermath-of-madrid-bombing-26013561.html }
Sir - I've been told that Spain is being considered a nation of  cowards. I have lived in Spain for 16 years, consider a big part of myself to be Spanish  and have no vote because I refuse to give up my Irish nationality. We are being considered cowards because our outgoing government lied to us. They needed to believe that ETA had attacked us. We are being considered cowards because one of the few strategies the incoming government used was to tell us they would bring home our troops. I did not feel cowardly when, last Sunday morning, I headed for Atocha train station with two candles in my bag to lay at a makeshift shrine. When I got to the top of the escalator I felt empty; someone had murdered 202 members of my family and all I could offer were two candles with the words peace and 
paz on them. A deathly silence hangs over this "shrine" even though you hear the normal hustle and bustle of a train stain behind you. A banner tells you that the long-searched for weapons of mass destruction were found on a train coming to Atocha. And that's when you feel the tears and you're confused because you don't know the dead but you're in mourning. Am I a coward for not crying in front of the masses of tearful people that were all around me with expressions of total and utter perplexity on their faces? I think not. This is not easy. It is not easy to decide what is best to do. We are now being blackmailed by al-Qa'ida who inform us that they have called a ceasefire until our new government decide what to do. Should we not compare ourselves to the Iraqis, the Palestinians, the Israelis, the British soldiers, the Irish in the north of Ireland, the Americans, the Kurds? Michelle O'Donoghue, Guadalajara, Spain Stick to his smoking gun Sir - I believe the general public is now only too aware of the health risks involved and that all the excuses and obstacles being voiced against the smoking ban will vanish into clear air after next Monday. Whatever other weakness may be attributed to Minister Micheál Martin in the running of the health services, he is on a certain winner here. By "sticking to his guns" on this issue and fully implementing the ban he will, in time, be acknowledged as a national hero. It will, one day, become obvious that he has saved more lives, wiped out more illness and spared the Department of Health more money than any of his predecessors. When it comes to the execution of the ban in public houses and elsewhere, they will find people are more educated and conscious of the health hazard in smoking than ever before. They will not be 'found lacking' in ensuring the rules are observed. If large "no smoking allowed" notices are prominently displayed in the appropriate places and premises any person choosing to ignore them would be anti-social, uncaring and downright ignorant. No smoking should mean no exceptions being made for the smoking of herbal, tobacco or any other substance either. If a publican or other proprietor finds, following a reminder, a customer persists in offending, a Garda can be called, the complaint investigated and the law enforced as in any other legislation. I am addressing the matter as an unbiased, reformed smoker. James A. Gleeson, Thurles, Co Tipperary. O'Conaire in City Hall Sir - The statue of Padraic O'Conaire is now in the garden at City Hall, Galway having survived a week surrounded by diggers and dumpers and he having no hard hat at all. With local elections coming up in June we are sure to have quite a few new faces around the Council table. But I must say it is an interesting place for an old-fashioned socialist and founder member of the Galway Labour Party to find himself. Is this is a sign for the future? He loved to walk and would refuse a lift with the wave of his walking stick, but I am sure if he were alive today he would find it almost impossible to cross the many roundabouts in the city, no more than the rest of us who love to walk. I would imagine he would think the present revamp of Eyre Square unnecessary and a waste of public money. If proper maintenance had taken place it would not have reached such a sorry state. It reminds one of the saying "a stitch in time saves nine". The thought of his statue being cloned would appear to him to be a bit ridiculous as 'they' say, the limestone statue would deteriorate over the years with all the acid rain. The cloned version is to be put in Eyre Square and the limestone statue is to be put in the new museum when it is finished. If there is money for a new statue, would it not be better to have one made of his dear friend Liam O'Flaherty from the Aran Islands, writer and film director of 
Man of Aran fame? The two of them could have some good chats about 'old times' and the progress of the city in the 21st century. The Danes are so proud of Hans Christian Andersen that Copenhagen is synonymous with the statue of the Little Mermaid. We here in Galway are trying to shove a dishevelled Padraic into a museum out of the way. In the past we were known as a city of culture. Let us foster that image instead of the one of meaningless late-night brawls, endless pub crawls and over the top clamping. So let the real Padraic go back to his place in Eyre Square. Nuala Nolan, Middle Street, Galway Questioning Christianity Sir - As a Jewish person, and having read the many reviews and Christian commentaries on 
The Passion of The Christ, especially the patronising forgiveness for having in some way been involved in Jesus's crucifixion, may I, therefore, make the point that the Jewish religion is in effect based on what Christians refer to as the Old Testament. To the best of my knowledge there is no mention of Jesus in this book. While Christian scholars refer to Christo-Judaic theology and, therefore, tie in their Christian beliefs with that of the Jewish Old Testament, the same does not apply to the Jewish outlook any more that Sikhs relate to Hindus or Islam to Druidism. Unfortunately, due to centuries of conditioning, the Christian religion seems to need some dark antithetical image to reflect its sainted glory, and for Jewish people to question the Christian outlook is akin to the boy who attempted to hold back the flood by blocking a hole in the dyke with his finger. Victor Feldman, Merchant's Road, Dublin 3. Government priorities Sir - I read recently in your paper that two groups in Ireland are looking for people to join them on a sponsored climb of mountains in South America and Africa respectively, in order to raise money to buy essential equipment for the children's hospitals in Crumlin and Temple Street in Dublin. I also read where our Minister for the Environment intends to bring in electronic voting for future elections in this country, which, we are told, will cost ?50 million, and which nobody wants, while children are being denied the equipment they need to cure them of their various illnesses. The same Government of which the Minister is a member has also given ?40 million to the GAA. This in order to consolidate the Fianna Fáil rural vote. The terrible thing is that the Minister, Martin Cullen and his Government cohorts will read this letter and it won't have the slightest effect on them. I hope that they never have children who must depend on the sponsored initiatives of people who have more concern and decency for the most vulnerable children in our country than our Government ever will. Joseph McGinley, Springdale Road, Raheny, Dublin 5 A proper politician Sir - Minister for Education Noel Dempsey must be congratulated on his decision to introduce school league tables. He is really developing into a proper politician, considering he said on March 19 he was against such tables being published. This is exactly the sort of ministerial indecisiveness we need. Denis Hurley, Kilbrittain, Co Cork 
