christianity
{  
    April 08 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/eastertide-experience-that-is-the-passion-of-the-christ-26007726.html }
THIS unique Mel Gibson film, serves at least one useful purpose; to provoke  a widespread Eastertide discussion on the mystery of the Passion and Death of Christ. There has been a "taking of sides" as to its merits and faults. While most critics agree that it is a cinematic 
tour de force, some claim that its account of Christ's passion betrays an anti-Semitic flavour and is steeped in excessive violence. Moreover, some negative assessments of the work have gone beyond the film itself with an 
ad hominem argument that the film is tarnished by the fact that both Mel Gibson and his influential father, Gibson Senior, are infected with a distaste for Judaism and have expressed a resistance to the teaching of the Second Vatican Council. It has also been suggested that the film is selective concerning details of the biblical story of the Passion. Its alleged anti-Semitism, however, remains highly debatable. The Jewish religious establishment of the day indeed appears in uncompromising and blood-thirsty guise. Like all powerful, establishment forces, the priestly ruling council is, not surprisingly, seen as "villains of the peace." It may be argued however, that this springs more from it being a typical power elite, than that its membership happens to be comprised of men of the Jewish race (the same, be it recalled, as that of the victimised Jesus himself). For this reason the Jewish people, as a whole, can hardly be blanketed as Christ-killers at the time of the crucifixion; much less for all time. This canard has, indeed, been explicitly dismissed by contemporary Christian authorities. As regards the brutality of the scourging and crucifixion, as depicted in the film, the sheer violence of the sequence drives home the ignominy of the events; a reality which, historically, there is no escaping. This may produce a reaction of strange discomfort for the viewer. But the atmosphere of the 
Via Dolorosa simply cannot be presented as a spectacle, sanitised in any way. For this reason the relentless, sadistic punishment of Jesus on the big screen, together with formidable acoustics, may be shocking to viewers with tender emotions. It may even tempt some to recoil at what has been alleged are the film's passages of gory extravagance. Qualms have also been expressed by theological purists who challenge the treatment of the Passion in terms of finer points of biblical scholarship. In this context it is important to remind ourselves that Gibson's effort is an artistic enterprise like all such works on historical topics, it is entitled to a certain artistic licence. For this, due allowance must surely be made. Although the film deals strictly with the last twelve hours in the life of Jesus, that is his passion and death, it nevertheless links this concentrated episode with the larger picture, by way of arresting flashbacks to his early life at Nazareth, his teachings in the Sermon on the Mount (" . . . I say to you, love your enemies"), the institution of the Eucharist at the Last Supper and, finally, a delicate intimation of the mystery of the Resurrection. For those for whom the memory of the classic moments of Christ's final suffering may have palled for whatever reason, the film's Passion sequence vividly recalls what are (for the Christian) nothing less than momentous events in the progress of salvation history. It rehearses, in larger than life fashion, the scenes commemorated by the tableaux of the Stations of the Cross to be found in Catholic churches and in the sorrowful mysteries of the Rosary. In this, the film fits well with the mood of Holy Week. It also may be noted in passing that the film's dialogue is in Aramaic (among the Jewish 
dramatis personae) and in Latin (among the Roman colonists). English subtitles are provided for the benefit of viewers. This is an imaginative ingredient of the production and works well, I thought, as an innovative technique. Crucially, it would seem, that what Gibson's film offers, will be shaped by the attitude to the story of Jesus Christ that one brings to the viewing experience. In other words, whether one is a Christian believer or not will seriously affect our reaction to what we are invited to behold. For the person devoid of basic Christian faith 
The Passion of the Christ may not be more than a prolonged and gratuitous narrative of man's inhumanity to man. For such, it represents an unwelcome and depressing scenario. Moreover, it is distinctly at odds with a contemporary culture of euphemism that attempts to shun pain, death and evil as realities scarcely admissible to glossier versions of human life. An honest X-ray of the human condition, however, reveals the face of evil that glowers persistently at all that is merciful and redemptive in our world. It takes no act of faith to acknowledge that in our new century pride, cruelty and avarice abound. By virtue of the vision that Christian faith supplies, a fresh horizon appears on which we recognise the liberating paradox of Christianity; out of death comes life and evil is transformed by the healing mystery of Christ's life. Gibson's daring visual experiment revisits the drama of Jesus, the incarnate sign or sacrament of God's love. On this is grounded the imperishable hope of Christians. If you feel up to it, go and see this film. If you do not go, then at least allow that it may positively stimulate the Christian sensibility of those who do. Fr Tom Stack is Parish Priest of Milltown, Dublin. 
