christianity
{ Ben Macintyre 
    March 13 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/moors-last-sigh-echoed-in-devastating-blasts-26012160.html }
A GRIM symmetry hangs over the Madrid bombings, for in many terrorist minds the conflict between Islam and the West goes back at least half a millennium, to Spain. "We have succeeded in infiltrating the heart of crusader Europe and struck one of the bases of the crusader alliance," crowed the message from the Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades, the al-Qa'ida offshoot that has claimed responsibility for the carnage. Even if the mass murder turns out to be the work of Basque terrorists, the suspicion of Islamic involvement means the attacks will be symbolically absorbed into the radical Islamist interpretation of history, with Spain's bloody religious past at its core. Osama bin Laden's deputy explicitly linked the destruction of the World Trade Centre with events in southern Spain 512 years ago, by referring, in a post-9/11 broadcast, to "the tragedy in al-Andalus" the watershed moment in 1492 when the Christian troops of Ferdinand and Isabella finally conquered Granada, bringing to an end nearly 800 extraordinary years of Islamic rule in Spain. With our foreshortened historical memories in the West, we see the War on Terror through a prism of recent events: Afghanistan, the Gulf War, the presence of American troops in Saudi Arabia. But in truth the landscape of Islamic memory stretches to a more distant horizon: to the Christian flag unfurling over the Alhambra, the great 14th-century Muslim fortress of Granada, and the Crusades that preceded it. The loss of the Muslim kingdom that the Moors called al-Andalus and we still call Andalusia is emotively engraved in the collective memory of Islam. Within a decade of 1492, Muslims were being forcibly converted to Christianity, the Inquisition took religious persecution to new extremes and by 1609, the remaining Moors were expelled, their culture uprooted. Limpieza, "blood purity," would become a Spanish national obsession, presaging the Nazi and other "ethnic cleansing." Bin Laden's immediate foe is America, the despised modern crusader, but the search for historical revenge in the blinkered mind of al-Qa'ida leads much further back. "This is part of settling old accounts with Spain, the crusader," declared the letter from al-Masri Brigades. According to legend, Boabdil, the last Muslim king of Granada, gazed back at the Alhambra as he fled into North African exile, sighed and burst into tears, prompting a stern rebuke from his mother: "Weep like a woman for what you could not defend like a man." The lament of The Moor's Last Sigh goes beyond mere nostalgia. For extremists such as bin Laden the moment of defeat is central to a history of Muslim grievance, now underpinning a resurgent, aggressive Islam, and legitimising terror. The year 1492 was, indeed, a tragedy, but not for the simple, self-serving reasons espoused by bin Laden and his like. For centuries Islamic Spain had been a beacon of tolerance, commerce and learning, in which Muslims, Christians and Jews had lived, if not always in harmony, then certainly with mutual dependence and extraordinary patience. It is hard to imagine a society further removed from the brutal, repressive Wahhabi fundamentalism of al-Qa'ida. Muslim al-Andalus was, in many ways, the polar opposite to the arid, anti-curious intolerance of, say, the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. Here was a society rooted in ethnic pluralism and religious tolerance. The intellectual and cultural benefits were astounding, amounting to a pre-modern Renaissance, and perhaps the greatest concentration of civilisation since 5th-century Athens. History has no better proof of the cultural vitality that comes from religious and ethnic diversity, as poetry and philosophy blossomed, alongside science and the arts. It was not some egalitarian Utopia (Jews and Christians remained second-class citizens) but compared with the intellectual stasis and religious fury in most of the rest of Europe during the Dark Ages, it was a paradise of tolerance. This is not what bin Laden sees when he laments the tragedy of al-Andalus. His is a narrow vision of Islamic triumphalism; indeed, the catastrophic expulsion of the Jews by Ferdinand and Isabella in 1492 is the sort of policy he would surely institute himself, given half a chance. Bin Laden likes to compare himself with Saladin, the defender of Islam against the Crusaders; but Saladin's court physician in Cairo was none other than Maimonides, the Spanish-born Jewish philosopher who reconciled Talmudic scripture with Aristotelian philosophy. This tolerant, vibrant culture was destroyed by fundamentalisms, Christian and Muslim, but the rich history of al-Andalus remains as proof that Islam is not some fundamentalist behemoth bent on repression and intolerance, whatever its more extreme manifestations today. To judge Islam by bin Laden is as idiotic as judging Christianity by the murderous standards of the Crusaders, or the Basques on the basis of Eta. As Madrid searches for answers in the devastation wrought by Islamic extremists or terrorist separatists or some weird alliance of the two, it is worth remembering that Spain was home to one of the great tolerant cultures, where Christians, Jews and Muslims, Spaniards, Syrians, Celts and Basques, lived and thought together for eight centuries. When Boabdil looked back at the enemy troops marching on the Alhambra, the Moor's Last Sigh, I believe, was not for the end of Muslim domination, but the death of a marvellous idea under attack from extremists, as it is once again. 
