christianity
{ KEVIN MOORE 
    May 15 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/christian-brothers-we-wont-buy-victims-silence-26259352.html }
THE Christian Brothers have decided not to buy the silence of victims of child sex, physical and other forms of abuse, dating back 72 years, they told The Sunday Independent in an exclusive interview. The order refused to appear on the RTE series, States of Fear, because they were not given assurances by the producer, Mary Raftery, that the contents would be fair and balanced in all circumstances. But following the programme, nominated spokesmen agreed to speak to this newspaper to repeat their apology to victims and explain, among other things, why they could not make out-of-court financial settlements. These were: the Provincial, Kevin Mullan, his deputy, David Gibson and a member of the leadership team, Denis Gleeson. They belong to the Northern Province of the Christian Brothers that is, the part of the country roughly above a line stretching from Dublin to Galway. They recognise that the setting up of the Commission to Inquire into Childhood Abuse and the proposed abolition of the three year statute of limitations on personal injury claims could result in the Christian Brothers having to pay out millions of pounds in compensation. But Br Gibson pointed out: ``That is not the focus of our attention.'' They had anticipated that when they issued their initial formal apology in March of last year. He said that at the time, they looked at the compensation issue. They wanted to find out if they could set up some form of arbitration and mediation that would circumvent the legal process. The answer from the lawyers was that this was not an option. Br Gibson pointed out: ``If you did it outside the courts, it could be viewed that you were buying people, buying their silence. And how would you judge the level of a person's suffering? Who would be the one to decide that? You need an independent person.'' However, they did recognise that some abuse victims had immediate and pressing financial and other needs and problems. As a result, the Christian Brothers had set up a Pastoral Service to assist them. Br Gibson explained: ``We have employed lay people, we've given them a fund and said, we will direct people to you who have needs. You don't need to know anything about their story, as it is not compensation. They may be unemployed, have lost their house, could not afford furniture, need medical expenses, or they want to start again and go to university.'' This Pastoral Service is separate from their Child Protection Office at 3, Upper Dodder Park Road, Rathfarnham, Dublin (telephone 01 4902323), which employs three lay persons and was set up specifically to receive complaints of child sex and other abuse. The office has received 364 allegations, one of them dating to 1927. An estimated 45 per cent (164) relate to sex abuse, but the majority relate to corporal punishment, beatings, humiliation, or other bad experiences. Asked if they would attend and participate in the new child abuse Commission, Br Mullan said: ``We will have to wait and see the terms of reference.''  Br Gibson expressed concern at the Government's decision to allocate an extra £4m per annum to set up a dedicated professional counselling service in all regions, while, admitting that there was a problem in relation to the availability of qualified staff. He pointed out that the Christian Brothers and the Holy Faith sisters had been running an inner city counselling service for the past three years, helping about 300 people: the homeless, drug addicts, abuse sufferers. ``We have applied for funding for it,'' said Br Gibson: ``£50,000 from the Government would run that centre. Yet we cannot get it.'' 
