christianity
{  
    July 02 2015 09:34 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/transfer-window/liverpool-on-verge-of-christian-benteke-signing-31346597.html }
Liverpool are on the verge of completing the signing of Aston Villa striker Christian Benteke, according to talkSPORT. The Reds have been heavily linked with a move for the Belgium international in recent weeks and Anfield insider, Graham Beecroft, claims a deal is now imminent.  Speaking on Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast, he said: "My understanding is Christian Benteke, who has been on their radar for some time, is very close indeed to signing for Liverpool. "I expect him to sign if not today then certainly in the not too distant future. Liverpool have done their work and have sealed a deal [with Aston Villa]." Brendan Rodgers has already made five signings this summer - James Milner, Danny Ings, Adam Bogdan, Joe Gomez and Roberto Firmino - while a deal for Southampton full-back Nathaniel Clyne is also imminent.  Meanwhile, Liverpool are set to complete another summer signing with the recruitment of American U18's starlet Brooks Lennon. Lennon, who plays for Real Salt Lake City's youth academy, netted an astonishing 31 goals last season as he is continually billed as America's 'hottest prospect'. Having previously had spells training with Aston Villa and Sporting Lisbon, The Metro reports that Lennon's relationship with Liverpool began in January 2014 when he managed to impress the coaches while spending time with the club's youth academy.  Real Salt Lake City are keen to tie Lennon down to a permanent MLS contract but Liverpool have seemingly won the race for the exciting attacker. And finally, Liverpool have entered the race to sign Arsenal target William Carvalho.  The Reds sent a scout to watch the Sporting Lisbon midfielder in action at the European U21 Championships, according to The Liverpool Echo. Sporting are reportedly willing to sell Carvalho for around £20 million. Manchester United and Tottenham are also said to have watched the 23 year-old.  Online Editors 
