christianity
{  
    March 29 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/brothers-abuse-apology-a-timely-watershed-26194819.html }
THE decision by the Christian Brothers to publicly apologise for abuse and ill-treatment of Irish children was described last night by child care agency ISPCC as a ``timely watershed''`. Welcoming the apology from the religious order, ISPCC chief executive Cian OTighearnaigh said it in no way obviated the need for criminal investigation of wrong doing or necessary compensation for some victims. Mr O Tighearnaigh referred specially to the many who suffered negative treatment and more serious abuse at schools and centres run by the Brothers. It clearly gave them ``permission''` to accurately remember and find ``closure''` regarding negative experiences which were manifestly unacceptable, brutal and not the children's fault, he said. In a message in newspapers today and yesterday, the Irish Christian Brothers, who have taught an estimated half-million Irish children over the last 40 years, expressed their deep regret to anyone who suffered ill-treatment while in their care. Their apology was an unqualified one, the St Mary's Province deputy leader, Brother David Gibson, said last night. ``We feel there are a lot of people out there who are hurting and we want them to come forward and talk about the hurt so that there can be some form of healing,''` he said. In the message, the religious order says that over the past number of years it has received from former pupils ``serious complaints of ill-treatment and abuse''` by some Christian Brothers in schools and residential centres. ``And we say to you who have experienced physical or sexual abuse by a Christian brother, and to you who complained of abuse and were not listened to, we are deeply sorry.''` However, the religious order says it wants to do more than say it is sorry and has already put in place a range of services to offer a practical response. From today, a freephone Faoiseamh helpline, 1800 331234 in the Republic and 0800 973272, will now operate six days a week from 10am to 10pm. A freepost service will also be available for anyone to write to the Christian Brothers. Complaints received by the Christian Brothers are referred to an advisory panel of professionals, said Br Gibson, and a child protection centre set up by the order in 1993 and staffed by a lay director oversees the handling of each complaint. ``In all cases we would be very sympathetic to the person involved and we would encourage them to report the matter to the civil authorities. We are also cooperating with the authorities.''`  On the question of compensating victims, he said the court system was the only legal route open but they were open to any suggestions. Br. Gibson said that were the Christian Brothers to award money in compensation to victims, this would be taxable whereas compensation from the courts would not. 
