christianity
{ ROGER BOYES 
    September 25 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/kohls-future-hanging-by-a-thread-as-poll-approaches-26175640.html }
HELMUT Kohl's future as Germany's leader dangled by a thread yesterday. With only a day to go to polling in the election, barely one per cent divided the Chancellor's Christian Democrats from the Social Democrats of his rival, Gerhard Schroder. There has never been a closer finish in a German election and the result is quite unpredictable. The most likely outcome is a grand coalition of Christian Democrats and Social Democrats but that would leave open many questions. Would it be dominated by Christian Democrats or Social Democrats? Will Herr Kohl lead it? He has sworn not to take part in such a government but has been exposed over the past three days to intense pressure from the Bavarian Christian Social Union. Only if he stays, say leading members of his Bavarian sister party, would they take part in a grand coalition. An opinion poll, conducted by the Emnid Institute for the NTV television network, yesterday gave a picture of a largely disorientated electorate. About 25pc were sure to vote for the Social Democrats, 24pc for the Christian Democrats and 25pc were undecided. More than 10pc were certain they would not vote. And none of the small parties was likely to gain the 5pc needed to get into parliament. SCRAPE IN If the ``don't knows'' are divided proportionately among the parties, the Social Democrats would win 40pc, the Christian Democrats 39pc, the Free Democrats would scrape in with 5pc and the Greens with 7pc, while the ex-communist Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS) would narrowly miss the target. But with the gap so narrow, pollsters can no longer give a convincing picture of the probable result. Herr Schroder, in his final rally in Berlin yesterday made a pitch for voters who might be considering voting for the PDS. Even if the PDS falls below 5pc of the nationwide vote, it can still get into parliament if it wins three constituencies on a first-past-the-post basis. It has every chance of doing so, especially in east Berlin, where the party's popularity is high. If it is returned to parliament, the PDS will upset the arithmetic of power. A government of Social Democrats and Greens would no longer have the necessary absolute majority and would need the support of the former communists. Herr Schroder and other Social Democrat leaders say they cannot rule on that basis. This, and other calculations, reinforced the view that Germany is heading for a grand coalition. It may even be what the Germans want: a graceful way to ease Herr Kohl into retirement, a guarantee that modernising reforms will continue but without painful side-effects, and a guarantee too of stability in international politics. That, judging by opinion surveys, is what Germans want from the election. But Herr Kohl reads the national mood somewhat differently. He sees a Germany terrified of an erratic Social Democratic-Green government, of a rudderless Germany just as the country embarks on the euro. But Herr Kohl sees himself as crucial to the secure future of Germany. Win or lose, the Christian Democrats and the country as a whole will be saddled with a Kohl problem after tomorrow. There is no simple way, under the German system, of voting for a grand coalition or for the removal of Herr Kohl. It requires sophisticated tactical voting that defies all but the biggest of mathematical brains. Little wonder then that so many Germans consider themselves ``don't knows''.  (The Times, London). 
