christianity
{  
    November 25 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/speaking-well-of-the-dead-can-enrich-us-27058196.html }
At a recent funeral in a country parish some neighbours had gathered as usual around the cemetery gate. The man just buried would not have rated in the public eye in terms of achievement. However, a near neighbour set the record straight. He said simply: Werent we all better for having him around. The group nodded agreement. He had spoken for all. The comment reflected the heart of the Gospel in down-to-earth terms. The Parable of the Talents carried that message. There Jesus speaks of a rich man investing trust in his servants by setting them up to trade with various amounts. Those with larger sums went on to double the value. The one with the smallest sum gave way to discouragement and hoarded the coin. He met with strong disapproval from his master. He had not made the effort to employ what he had. In day-to-day conversation we still invoke the sense of that parable. We credit someone with talents and resources. We see these essentially as opportunities and challenges. But then the person may not measure up to the potential. He spares himself the effort and he and the community are the losers. Do we Christians not confess before God our sins of omission, asking forgiveness not just for what we have done but for what we have failed to do? The point of the Parable of the Talents is that as Christians we are judged in accordance with the resources which have been given to us or which have been put in our way. “To whom much is given from him much is expected”. So said Jesus. It is a sobering thought. In the list of Deadly Sins the sin of sloth has its place. As a term it hardly rates in our religious dialogue but it may have a strong presence in our moral culture. When it prevails it amounts to fundamental flaw at the very heart of human and Christian living. Sloth is the attitude of apathy. It leaves us indolent and lackadaisical about making the effort to live up to the challenge of what it is to be human and Christian. We settle into a selfish comfort zone. Any suggestion of making a difference in our world, of pushing out the boat to achieve some worthwhile purpose passes over us. It does not register. So many of us are good at talking. Just listen in to any pub conversation of what should or should not be done – by others! Any effort by those same others to get something done comes in for dismissive criticism. We have our ways of describing this kind of empty talker, the builean sgiath, the hurler on the ditch. We speak of him as good at putting legs under hens. Empty talk is the enemy of positive action. It saps morale. One talks oneself and others into a general mood of pessimism and cynicism. Gossip is toxic. St Paul saw it for what it was: “Now we hear that there are some of you who are living in idleness, doing no work themselves but interfering with everyone else’s”. (11 Thessalonians 3:11) In the monastic rule of Saint Benedict, which has been the basis of spiritual life in religious communities for fifteen hundred years, sloth is targeted as a prevailing vice. It is seen as a slow working poison which corrodes from inside one who once had a religious vocation to a life of prayer and ministry. A self-indulgent torpor sets in which generates feelings of fatigue and weariness. A phrase which summed up the spiritual motivation of the religious life in the eyes of St. Benedict was ‘Laborare est orare’, working in the right spirit is itself praying. Down the centuries this has been reflected in the ‘Little Way’ of Saint Therese of Lisieux, in the life of Mother Teresa of Calcutta and in untold millions of other devoted people. Work was motivated by the same love that inspired prayer. The great mystic St John of the Cross summed it all up in a single sentence: “At the evening of life we shall be judged by our love”. In Scripture the pastoral letters of St John and St James teach that Christian love is not expressed in words but in actions which build up the Christian community. One of the prophets who promoted this positive form of Christian love was St. Aelred, Abbot of Rievaulx. His Benedictine monastery in Yorkshire drew vocations from far and wide. In that Benedictine tradition there is the conviction that God needs our ministry to complete his work of creation and redemption. This is well put in George Elliot’s poem Stradivarius, which celebrates the art of the violin maker. This is how it concludes.  And heresy or not, if my hand slacked I should rob God – since he is fullest good – Leaving a blank instead of violins. I say, not God Himself can make man’s best Without best men to help him – Tis God gives skill, But not without men’s hands: He could not make Antonio Stradivari’s violins Without Antonio. Get thee to thy easel. 
