christianity
{  
    November 27 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/a-difficult-and-turbulent-journey-but-the-pope-is-right-to-embark-on-it-26357175.html }
The political and religious world watches as the Pontiff prepares for a confrontation with Islam THERE is, we must suppose, an outside chance that Pope Benedict XVI could be attacked, or even assassinated, during his visit to Turkey, starting tomorrow. Some counsellors within the Vatican tried, for this reason, to dissuade him from carrying out the trip. But rightly, he insisted on going. A Pope should be ready to be a martyr for his faith, and there could be few better reasons for martyrdom than a confrontation with Islam. It is not that Islam is always an aggressive faith, as some would have it. But it is the rising power in the world of faith, and in the world of values. And Benedict, as Joseph Ratzinger, has been studying Islam and the Koran for many decades. In the Aegean, the greatest opponent of Islam is not the Vatican - or at least it hasn't been since the Battle of Lepanto in 1571. The fiercest opponent of Islam are the Greek Orthodox - and other Eastern Orthodox - churches, who are the hereditary opponents of Islamic power in the region. Greece versus Turkey has meant, for centuries, Orthodox Christianity versus Ottoman Islam. The old (and by now probably offensive) joke that a "Turkish Delight" was a Greek massacre derives from this deep fault-line. In the 19th century, William Gladstone was almost as exercised by the massacres of the Bulgarians by the Turks as he was by the problems of Ireland. He wrote screeds on this question - which was, for him, a question of Christianity versus Islam. A similar perspective arose over the genocide of the Armenians during the First World War, when, it has been claimed that more than a million and a half Armenian Christians were exterminated by the dying Ottoman Empire. Again, the deep cultural fissure wasn't just race, or nation, but religion, and again it was Christians versus an Islamic nation. Kemal Ataturk, the modernising Turkish President from 1923 to 1938, secularised Turkey and brought in many other reforms, including the abolition of the caliphate - rule by a religious authority - and the advancement of women's rights. (A quirkey aside to Ataturk's career is that he is said to have been an admirer - and possibly a lover - of the young Zsa Zsa Gabor.) Rural Turkey was never secularised in the same way as Istanbul and Ankara - much, perhaps, as rural Ireland retains the practice of faith while Dublin's churches grow empty. Yet, after Ataturk's influence, Turkey was, until now, easy-going and tolerant about religion, and never imposed strict laws about liquor, for instance, in the manner of other Islamic countries; there is even a common Turkish brandy known as raki. Visitors to Turkey today still find it, overall, a congenial place, without the prohibitions that now characterise other Islamic nations. Yet, more experienced observers note the changes occurring beneath the surface - an Islamic revival growing apace. Lord Norwich, an expert on the Eastern Mediterranean, writing as John Julius Norwich, recently said that the change is profound. "Forty years ago, no politician in Istanbul went to the Mosque. Now, no major politician dares not go." And, like all Islamic countries, Turkey's birth-rate is copious, with 16.62 births per 1000 of the population; whereas its old enemy, Greece, now has one of the lowest birth-rates in Europe, with 9.72 per 1000 of the population. If trends continue, the Greeks will be wiped out within a few generations. And if Turkey should enter the European community, its burgeoning population could prove a dominant factor in the future of the Community. (Benedict is known to be opposed to Turkey's entry.) Pope Benedict's mission is primarily, of course, religious, although the Vatican, being a power in the world, cannot but help wield political power at least indirectly. Thus, the watching world makes much of the Holy Father's meetings of intentioned "rapprochement" with Islam, through the person Ali Bardakoglu, the head of Turkey's religious affairs directorate. The Islamic Turks have made it plain that they expect the Pontiff to apologise a little more grovellingly for having been critical of Islam in his Regensburg address. And yet, the Pope's first loyalty must be to brother Christians in the Orthodox traditions, who, all over the Eastern Mediterranean are under pressure from the expansion of Islam, from Cyprus to the Lebanon and to Palestine itself. In Ireland, we are apt to think that the divisions within Christianity are Catholic and Protestant: but the religious wars of western Europe are in the past. We now need to be much more aware of that other branch of Byzantine Christianity which is effectively in the front line in the culture clash with Islam - and apparently losing ground. Benedict cannot assuage the Muslims at the expense of the Orthodox churches, and he would be a diplomatic genius if he managed to be on equally good terms with both. However carefully he treads, this is bound to be a difficult and turbulent journey: but he is absolutely right to make it. 
