christianity
{  
    May 29 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/quinn-and-the-ecumenism-debate-26386962.html }
David Quinn's definition of ecumenism as "the ability to worship with Christians whose beliefs differ from his own" (Irish Independent, May 26) is so minimal as to hardly register on the scale. But even that definition supports the Easter Sunday celebrations held by Fr Iggy O'Donovan and the Rev Michael Graham. These two men and members of their respective congregations clearl David Quinn's definition of ecumenism as "the ability to worship with Christians whose beliefs differ from his own" (Irish Independent, May 26) is so minimal as to hardly register on the scale. But even that definition supports the Easter Sunday celebrations held by Fr Iggy O'Donovan and the Rev Michael Graham. These two men and members of their respective congregations clearly felt that the joint celebration of the Eucharist was how they wished to worship God on that particular occasion. Really, what is the fuss all about? The fact is a group of adult Christians chose to celebrate together in a way that meant something special to them. No one was forced to believe something that they did not want to and no one was forced to attend. The joint celebration was a great example to people of other faiths and of a movement (however faltering) towards Christian unity. The reason that even many Christians "lack the patience for doctrinal differences" is that they simply do not see them as important. What is important to them is what it means to be a Christian in today's world. The question they ask is, what is Christ's message for our time? Arcane theological differences do not help to spread the Gospel. Like all hierarchical organisations the Roman Catholic Church and the Church of Ireland are inherently uncomfortable with people at the bottom of the pyramid making their own decisions. The bishops and above are convinced that the actions of their congregations have to be closely controlled - ordinary people are not to be trusted, unless of course they are contributing money and resources to the Church's coffers. David Quinn warns against a "vacuous and false unity". But who decides what is real? I am sure that the unity that the Easter Sunday congregation felt was very real. But if they have to wait for approval from above to build on that unity and use it as a platform to reach out into the world they will wait for ever. Even worse, the Christian message will once again be drowned out by doctrinal infighting. Do the Churches really think that is what Jesus would want? MARK JAKEMAN, RADHARC NA SLEIBTE, CHURCHTOWN, MALLOW, CO CORK 
