christianity
{  
    January 26 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/sex-must-not-be-bought-and-sold-warns-the-pope-26406006.html }
POPE Benedict XVI yesterday praised the 'ecstasy' of physical love between a man and a woman as a pathway to the divine love of God. In an encyclical charged with the language of eros, or erotic love, the Pope warned against the "debasement" of sexual love as a "commodity to be bought and sold". He uses the document to reclaim for Christianity the divine potential of the erotic. Richard Owen in Rome POPE Benedict XVI yesterday praised the 'ecstasy' of physical love between a man and a woman as a pathway to the divine love of God. In an encyclical charged with the language of eros, or erotic love, the Pope warned against the "debasement" of sexual love as a "commodity to be bought and sold". He uses the document to reclaim for Christianity the divine potential of the erotic. The Pope concedes that Christianity has been regarded at times as having been opposed to the body. He says sex is meaningless if not combined with spiritual or divine love. Purification But in Deus Caritas Est (God is Love), his first encyclical since election, he says that through God, eros can be purified. The Pope also defends the right of Christian aid agencies to carry out charity work, saying their efforts showed that God and religion can be used for good rather than misused in the name of "vengeance, hatred and violence". Christian aid workers must not proselytise however, but inspire faith by example. "The Church cannot and must not take upon herself the political battle to bring about the most just society possible," the Pope writes. "She cannot and must not replace the State. Yet at the same time she cannot and must not remain on the sidelines in the fight for justice." The encyclical is significant because as his first, it sets the tone for his pontificate. Although focusing on love, the document is also a working-out of the relationship between church and state, with references to earlier Catholic social teaching. This week the Pope, (78), told a Vatican conference that he had chosen the theme of love and charity "because the word love is too much abused in the world today". In the encyclical, the Pope writes: "Christianity is often criticised as having been opposed to the body, and it is quite true that tendencies of this sort have always existed," he writes. "Yet the contemporary way of exalting the body is deceptive. Eros, reduced to pure sex, has become a commodity, a mere "thing" to be bought and sold - or rather, man himself becomes a commodity." Man "now considers his body and his sexuality as the purely material part of himself, to be used and exploited at will. Nor does he see it as an arena for the exercise of his freedom, but as a mere object that he attempts, as he pleases, to make both enjoyable and harmless. Here we are actually dealing with a debasement of the human body." Benedict also explores the Church's work in caring for the poor and sick, which he says was as much a part of its mission as spreading the Gospels. But, he argues, Christian charity workers must never proselytise or push a particular ideology. "Love is free; it is not practised as a way of achieving other ends," he writes. Benedict also rejects the Marxist criticism that charity is "an excuse to keep the poor in their place." Marxism had failed because it could not respond to every human need, he said. (© The Times, London) Meanwhile, Irish gay rights activists last night dismissed Pope Benedict's assertion that the meaning of love is that between a man and a woman. 'Magnificent' The encyclical was described as "magnificent" by Fr Vincent Twomey, professor of moral theology at Maynooth. It was the synthesis of the entire teaching of the Church and gave a fuller understanding of love, he said. But the Pope's views on modern love were rejected by Irish gay rights activists. Gay and Lesbian Equality Network chief executive Keith O'Malley said as long as the Vatican refrained from targeting the gay community with criticism or negativity that was going to foster homophobia, they were not interested in his pronouncements. "I think most lesbian and gay people feel if the Vatican wants to think that love doesn't extend beyond heterosexual love that is their loss," he said. TOUCHY-FEELY FIRST WORDS FROM POPE 
