christianity
{ David Quinn 
    October 15 2015 11:22 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/david-quinn/changing-the-churchs-teaching-on-divorce-would-be-anything-but-merciful-34114308.html }
There is a Synod on the family currently taking place in Rome. It has been convened by Pope Francis and it is really a continuation of a Synod (or meeting) on the same topic that took place in Rome this time last year. The purpose of the Synod is to discuss the challenges facing the family in all the parts of the world the Church finds itself in and to work out the best way to help families meet those challenges. Therefore, the Synod has been discussing everything from migration, to poverty, to polygamy, to same-sex marriage, to divorce. Down the centuries, the main sources of disagreement between Christians, and between Christianity itself and the rest of the world, have concerned the nature of God, Christ, the Holy Trinity, authority, the Church. Critics will say that it is typical of Christians to fight among themselves (sometimes violently) over these things. But I can't think of a single intellectual movement that has not involved huge internal disputes (again, sometimes violent), socialism to name just one. Socialism, like Christianity, preaches the Brotherhood of Man and like Christianity can be anything but brotherly when the mood takes it. All the above-mentioned theological disputes still exist but they don't get people worked up anything like as much as they did in centuries past. Today, the major disputes involve moral issues, especially around marriage, the family and sexuality. For centuries, there was little disagreement about any of these things. Now that agreement has become completely unstuck. Ideas to do with individual freedom and self-fulfilment have wreaked havoc with traditional morality. Most people now think traditional morality is a trap designed to take away their freedom when in fact its main purpose is to encourage commitment and self-sacrifice. It's not just that the wider culture has parted company with Christianity on these matters, Christians now disagree about them among themselves as well. In the past, traditional morality was very strictly imposed. A married couple had to stay together no matter how miserable they were. A woman could not get pregnant outside marriage without facing social stigma. The memory of those social sanctions is probably the main reason why Pope Francis wants the Church to place more emphasis on mercy. In part, the Synod is trying to work out how to do that without unintentionally signalling to the world that it is changing its teaching about marriage and the family. Take marriage and divorce, for example. The Catholic Church believes that marriage is permanent and indissoluble. Jesus said "what God has put together, let no man tear asunder". He taught that anyone who divorced and remarried was guilty of adultery because the first marriage was still intact in the eyes of God. For this reason, the Church does not allow the divorced and remarried to receive Communion. But the fact is that in the West today an awful lot of marriages break down, including among practising Catholics. There are some in the Church, led by Germany's Cardinal Walter Kasper, who are trying to work out a way of allowing divorced and remarried Catholics to receive Communion under certain circumstances while remaining faithful to what Christ said about marriage and divorce. This is a very tough circle to square and there is a significant body of very senior Church figures who say it cannot be squared. This includes Cardinal Gerhard Muller, another German. Muller is head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith in Rome. The big question is, what does Pope Francis think? That is not yet clear. If he goes with Cardinal Muller, he will be accused of not showing the merciful face he has promised. If he goes with Cardinal Kasper, he will be accused of tampering with Christ's teaching on the matter, and lowering the Church's standards on marriage. You might be tempted to think that none of this really matters an iota to the wider world, but you would be dead wrong. Getting the balance right between mercy and standards is a vital concern for everyone in all fields. Take the economic crisis, for example. The main cause of it was that the banks massively lowered their lending standards. Banks began to lend to people previously considered too risky to be given a loan. This was often encouraged by politicians who wanted everyone to get on to the property ladder. In Ireland and elsewhere, banks began to offer people 100pc mortgages. The result, as we know, was so-called 'sub-prime lending' and disaster. The Central Bank here has now responded by requiring people seeking to buy a house to save up a hefty deposit and the multiple of salary the banks are allowed to lend has been reduced. The result is that a lot of couples have years of saving ahead of them before they can take out a mortgage. Politicians have responded with utter predictability by asking the Central Bank to lower lending standards again, that is to be, in effect, more 'merciful'. That's a popular, populist thing to do. What the Central Bank is doing is unpopular, especially with those directly affected. But the last time the banking system lowered lending standards the result was, well, merciless in its effects. We're still recovering from it. Countries like Greece are still reeling. The prevalence of divorce in most Western countries is also anything but merciful. Sometimes it is best for a couple to go their separate ways but we really ought to try and minimise marital breakdown, especially because of the misery it can cause children. The Church is the last major institution on the planet that believes in the indissolubility of marriage. In a culture of widespread divorce, I'm not really sure how merciful it would be in its effects if the Church weakened that teaching, whether in theory through changing the doctrine, or to all intents and purposes by changing its pastoral practice to allow, for example, divorced and remarried Catholics to receive Communion. The best way for the Church to serve the world is therefore to preserve its teaching on marriage and to do a much better job communicating it. Irish Independent 
