christianity
{  
    November 21 2013 02:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/remembering-jfk-29772657.html }
* On September 28, 1963, I saw President John F Kennedy at the Las Vegas Convention Centre. At that moment, he became a hero of mine. Up until then, I had the usual heroes, such as John Wayne, Dan Blocker (Hoss Cartwright of the TV show 'Bonanza'), Sean Connery's James Bond, Peter O'Toole as Lawrence of Arabia and Elvis Presley – the usual assortment of a 10-year-old growing up in America. He only spoke for 17 minutes  but the crowd went crazy. My mother and my friends' mothers were calling out: "Mr President, Mr President." It was pandemonium. I saw The Beatles at the same venue less than a year later and they had the same effect on the young kids that JFK had on the adults. One of the saddest days of my life was the day that JFK was killed, November 22, 1963. I remember the exact moment. I was in fifth grade and in sixth grade reading class. A kid named Kenny, who just got back from the dentist, and who was a bit of a jokester, burst into the room and yelled to the nun that someone had shot the president. The nun immediately slapped Kenny across the face and yelled at him for saying what he said. Kenny was shocked; he told the sister that he was not lying and then she began to cry. She knew Kenny was telling the truth. About 30 seconds later,  Fr Baldus came over the loudspeaker and told everyone to go to the church across the street to pray for the president, who had been shot. While we were on our knees praying, Fr Baldus, from the pulpit, said that the president had died. Darkness! Later that day, at home with my misty-eyed and distraught parents, we sat in front of the TV. I could understand my mom being affected but not my dad.  My mom was a great supporter of JFK and my dad totally disliked him. I asked my dad why he was crying. He told me it was because "he was one of us". I'll never forget that day. Kevin Devitte Mill Street, Westport, Co Mayo 'COMPENSATION' CRISIS *  I love the term applied to the  "top-ups" paid discreetly to senior hospital management, namely "compensation". My own word for it is a lot harsher but neither I nor you wish to be sued! I am disappointed, too, given the dire state of the nation's health resources, at the very muted tone of statements like ". . . picture reveals a complex pattern of pay rates, which evolved over years". Evolved? Like organic growth? More like a cancer. I am so angry. And apparently, "auditors found at least 36 types of allowance and benefit . . . were being made by voluntary hospitals and agencies to managers from HSE funds at a cost of €3.224m". Why has it taken auditors until now to 'discover' such behaviour? Are audits not carried out annually? And the HSE's response? Dismissals? Fines? Repayments demanded? Oh no! The HSE will continue to ". . . allow agencies to make a case to retain non-standard allowances for five years". Ah no, lads, keep the money and sure keep paying yourselves way over the odds, too. And why not? Sure it's not like the HSE is short of cash, is it? Sure didn't it lose €90m in the accounts somewhere – what's a few million between friends, after all? What makes it okay (apparently) is the fact that "the compensation does not involve any public funds or any funds from the foundation or other donated funds". It came instead from hospital car parks, etc. Oh, that's alright then.  William F (Liam) O'Mahony GraigueNAMAnagh, Co Kilkenny   *  I thought it couldn't get any worse, but now we learn that the profits from buying gifts and necessaries for patients in hospital shops and possibly feeding the voracious parking meters on the hospital grounds are being used to top up the already-inflated salaries of the hospital bosses. We will now possibly have to endure power cuts during the run-up to Christmas because the pampered ESB public sector unions are worried about their over-generous pensions – and we mustn't forget the teachers! The Celtic Tiger has gone septic. Keith Nolan Carrick-on-Shannon, Co Leitrim *  It is extraordinary that minister Brendan Howlin and junior minister Brian Hayes in the Department of Public Expenditure did not know that funds to top up the already-obscene salaries of senior hospital managers were being paid from the till. How were these payments accounted for in the hospital accounts . But then again, these are the same politicians who themselves are in receipt of thousands of euro in tax-free unverified expenses and allowances every year. Aside from the horror that patients may have gone without treatment when funding was diverted to these management payments, it is equally depressing that, despite everything that has happened in Ireland since we went into meltdown, these people did not turn down this money. And what does the fact we will just shrug when nothing is done about it say about us? Desmond FitzGerald Canary Wharf, London ONCE-IN-A-LIFETIME BID  *  A country our size will never have the necessary infrastructure to hold the Olympics or the Soccer World Cup, so I was delighted to hear we are preparing to make a bid for the 2023 Rugby World Cup. This would, without doubt, be the largest sporting event Ireland is capable of holding. As well as being a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, it is also reputed it would boost the economy by €800m. Let the governments on both sides of the Border get behind the IRFU and make this happen. John Bellew Paughanstown, Dunleer, Co Louth PERSECUTED CHRISTIANS  *  Last week, the British government's minister for faith, Baroness Warsi, highlighted the growing crisis of Christian persecution around the world and called for an urgent international response. She is not Christian but Muslim. The previous week in the House of Commons, MP Fiona Bruce listed the increasing prevalence of anti-Christian violence in the world. Surely the time has come for the Irish Government and people to add their voice and efforts to protect and help persecuted Christians. Religious freedom is part of civil liberty and is a basic human right. It is being horribly denied to thousands of Christians across the globe. Fellow Christians and people of good will cannot stand idly by. Fr Billy Swan Enniscorthy, Co Wexford A  FATEFUL DAY *  When jfk used to go visiting, he would usually descend the stairs from Air Force One clutching a hat in his right hand – this was especially the form if he was travelling without his wife – then the hat would be slipped to an aide as he stepped on to the apron to do the handshakes. It was strange to see a man carrying a hat that he never put on his head, a bit like those car owners who place a 'baby on board' sticker in the rear window of the family car. It would have been much smarter if he had donned something a little more protective on that fateful sunny day in Dallas. If he had, it's most likely that he would have survived the gun attack on the limousine and that he would have gone on to win the '64 election. But the gods decreed that it was not to be, and the gods, as we know, sometimes do work in very strange ways. Paddy O'Brien Co Dublin SEANAD REFORM *  Seanad reform: make senators ineligible to run for the Dail for 10 years after they leave the Seanad. JP McCarthy  Annascaul, Co Kerry Irish Independent 
