christianity
{ John Bingham in London 
    March 17 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/archbishop-quits-attacking-dim-witted-prejudice-26833173.html }
BRITAIN'S Dr Rowan Williams resigned as Archbishop of Canterbury yesterday with an attack on "dim-witted prejudice" against symbols of Christianity, such as wearing a cross. His resignation came after he accepted a likely defeat in his efforts to prevent schism in the church. Hours before his announcement he admitted to senior clerics that the initiative to establish a "rule book" was likely to collapse and spoke of his sense of "foreboding". He announced that he would step down as leader of 77 million Anglicans before a series of votes in dioceses that would likely spell the end of the unity pact on which he staked his credibility. He acknowledged his decade-long tenure had been marked by "crisis management", but he issued a robust defence of Christians, insisting that the faith was far from losing a "battle against secularisation". His comments came after weeks dominated by a public debate over the role of the church in national life, including a High Court ban on council prayers, the row over gay marriage and the controversy over the wearing of crosses. He insisted that Christianity was not losing a "battle against secularisation" but said that society was increasingly "tone-deaf" about religion. "There's a great deal of interest still in the Christian faith and although I think there is also a lot of ignorance and rather dim-witted prejudice about the visible manifestations of Christianity, which sometimes clouds the discussion, I don't think there's somehow a single great argument that the Church is losing. "There are an awful lot of people now of a certain generation who don't really know how religion works, let alone Christianity in particular. "And that leads to confusions and sensitivities in the wrong areas . . . does wearing a cross offend people who have no faith or non-Christians? I don't think it does." Dr Williams, who had been expected to leave next year, will take up a post as Master of Magdalene College Cambridge in January. The frontrunner to succeed him is the archbishop of York, Dr John Sentamu. (©Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
