christianity
{ Raymond Whitaker 
    October 29 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/suffering-finally-arrives-as-the-christians-of-pakistan-get-caught-in-deadly-crossfire-26072577.html }
FOR Pakistan's fearful Christian minority, the only surprise about yesterday's murderous raid on a church will be that it  did not come sooner. Retaliation against Muslims and mosques in the West after the September 11 attacks in the US had received wide publicity in Pakistan, and Christians were warning that whatever happened in Afghanistan would have consequences for them. A member of the Church of Pakistan, 15 of whose fellow Protestants were massacred yesterday along with a Muslim policeman, told me before the bombing started: "We feel like a target." Head of the church Right Reverend Dr Alexander John Malik, Bishop of Lahore, said: "We have to pray that nothing will happen, but we must also pray that the Americans will take no hasty steps. If they do, we will suffer." That suffering has now arrived, three weeks into what many Muslims, for all the West's protestations, consider a Christian crusade against their brothers in Afghanistan. And for all the protestations of the country's Christians that they are good Pakistanis who have nothing to do with the fighting across the border, their religion has identified them with the West. A police guard was put on churches around the country soon after the US attacks, but one policeman with a rifle was no match for several gunmen with automatic weapons, bent on revenge. Unlike Afghanistan, where eight Western aid workers have been held since before September 11 on charges of preaching Christianity, Pakistan's constitution guarantees religious freedom. Christians claim that their faith has been practised in the region since St Thomas arrived in the Punjab town of Taxila after 30AD. But in a country of 145 million, 97pc of whom are Muslim, they have always had to be discreet. Christians have reached high positions in Pakistan's military and civil service. In the middle-class areas of the country's main cities, many Muslims go to Christian schools, and troops of schoolgirls in their uniforms are a common sight. But the majority of the country's 4m Christians are abjectly poor. Many were tempted to convert to Christianity to escape the caste system, which lingers in parts of Pakistan despite the principle that everyone is equal under Islam. Harassment of Christians in Punjab's villages is persistent. Any dispute with a Muslim can become a religious confrontation. Christians are frequently accused of blasphemy against Islam, an offence which carries the death penalty. Around 2,500 people are said to be in jail or to face charges for blasphemy. In 1998, the Catholic bishop of Faislabad, John Joseph, publicly committed suicide in protest against the blasphemy law. Last year military president Pervez Musharraf proposed amending the law, but backed off when Muslim groups threatened protests. General Musharraf condemned yesterday's massacre as a terrorist act, and promised to hunt down the perpetrators, but pressure against Christians comes in many forms. One reason why a Protestant congregation was worshipping in a Catholic church, and had done for the past 30 years, is radical Muslim clerics warn they will protest violently to the streets to stop any new Christian places of worship being built in Pakistan. (Independent News Service) 
