christianity
{ Alice Vincent 
    July 31 2014 08:20 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/movies/movie-news/fifty-shades-of-grey-fans-can-now-become-christian-greys-interns-30473998.html }
A poorly-masked social media campaign encourages people to promote the film in return for fictional stilettos. It's not enough for blockbuster films to have a snazzy advertising campaign and some billboard posters any more, big titles also need a themed website for their fictional narratives too. Enter www.greyenterprisesholdings.com, the super-slick website for billionaire-cum-festishist Christian Grey's fictional company. It's a global leader in communications technologies, eco manufacturing, and next generation farming solutions, if you're interested – but most Fifty Shades fans might be too quickly lured in by the advert for interns on the front page to read down to that. It becomes quickly apparent that an internship with Grey Enterprise Holdings is a way of getting hold of Fifty Shades' fans personal details and encouraging them to spread the word about the film and its campaign through social media. An interns' career progress is also improved by downloading the Grey Enterprises Holdings app, too. Once you've uploaded a photo – inspiration is provided by the bleak Intern Gallery of lo-res photos of Christian Louboutin stilettoes and white strappy high-heels – you earn your first reward: the Power Heels Badge. Congratulations! And so it continues until you've shared your intern ID card, recruited your friends (no wonder Grey Enteprises Holdings has employed more than 40,000 people) and shared the trailer until interns have reached the dizzying heights of being able to proofread a document. Judging by Twitter, Grey has received a fair amount of applications since the website launched. The website's greatest disappoinment however, is the lack of awkward professional photos of Grey at work. Perhaps we get to see one when all of the internet has signed up to be an intern. Telegraph.co.uk 
