christianity
{ Ken Foy and Conor Feehan 
    July 19 2017 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/predator-wanted-by-gardai-for-suspected-murder-of-dublin-woman-fled-to-native-romania-35945373.html }
A "predator" wanted for questioning by gardaí over the suspected murder of Dublin woman Linda Christian (29) is currently living in his native Romania, sources have claimed. The man is wanted in relation to the death of Ms Christian whose badly decomposed remains were found in undergrowth in the Coolmine area of Dublin on Monday. Sources say that the "vulnerable" woman had been "taken advantage" of by the man whom she met a number of months ago. A post-mortem was carried out on Ms Christian's remains yesterday and was inconclusive. Gardaí first appealed for information in relation to Ms Christian's disappearance on July 3. She was reported missing on June 24, and when last seen she was wearing a green bomber jacket, blue jeans and carrying a pink gym bag. Sources said that she was being treated in hospital at the time of her disappearance. Last Wednesday, July 12, another fresh call for information was issued by gardaí, while a re-appeal was made on Saturday, July 15.  
Close
 Linda Christian’s body was found in Coolmine on Monday / It has emerged since the discovery of her body that she was a vulnerable woman preyed upon and taken advantage of by people who saw her as a soft touch. Neighbours in the Dublin 15 area where she lived have said they feel she was failed by the system of care in Ireland and should have been more protected by the State. Linda was fostered by the Christian family early in life, and spent the first few years with them  living in their home on Hadleigh Green in Castleknock. The family moved to the newly built Ongar estate in Clonee some years later and Linda moved with them. The house where Linda spent the last years of her life was not far from Blackwood Crescent.  Neighbours say that groups of people had taken advantage of Linda, and there would regularly be trouble at the house. Irish Independent 
