christianity
{  
    January 12 2015 11:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/true-faith-must-be-able-to-withstand-mocking-30902483.html }
People who believe they are entitled to kill anyone who dares to mock their religious beliefs need to get a life, as distinct from taking lives. I feel uneasy about some of the more belligerent satirising of religion, but no amount of mockery or humorous comment can justify attacking or killing a fellow human being.  We can all be offended by attacks on our beliefs or by abrasive criticism of them. One's person's joke is another person's blasphemy. The best response is a dignified rebuff, or simply to ignore the ridicule or criticism. I remember people who were shocked when the Monty Python film 'The Life of Brian' came out. There were protests and many Christians were understandably upset by the movie's scathing depiction of their religion. And yet in later years some of those who had objected to it most strongly said they'd like to have the song 'Always look on the bright side of life' played at their funerals, possibly forgetting it featured in the movie in a most irreverent context: a crucifixion scene. Personally, I respect Islam, Christianity, Hinduism, Judaism and all the other great religions of the world and the right of followers to worship as they see fit. But people ought to be entitled to express their disapproval of religion too, regardless of how offended any of us might be. A life without humour would be very dull indeed, and attempts to suppress joking and satire have never quite succeeded. Somebody somewhere will always find a way to poke fun and make at least one other person laugh. In one of her last performances the brilliant Joan Rivers -who was Jewish - joked outrageously about Nazis in leather being attractive. Now there was a woman who understood humour. No section of society, no belief system, no mode of human behaviour escaped her savage wit. Speaking of Nazis, in the Third Reich citizens had to be very careful about what they said, with spies and fanatics everywhere. However, humour still managed to surface now and again, as with the story of the family that gathered to say Grace around the dinner table. The father said: "For what we are about to receive we thank God and Hitler." The youngest boy asked: "Dad, what happens if Hitler dies?" The father winked and said: "Then we just thank God." We all need to lighten up about our religious beliefs or lack of them. As the Monty Python song cautioned, the last laugh could be on us. John Fitzgerald Callan, Co Kilkenny Sinn Fein's telling silence The silence of Sinn Fein in the aftermath of the Paris shootings is deafening. It's ironic that they didn't try to hijack the 'Je suis Charlie' March in Dublin last weekend. However, I suppose in the light of Gerry Adams's recent comments regarding newspaper editors, it was probably best to keep a low profile. So much for free speech in Ireland if Sinn Fein are not challenged on this. John Fagan Collinstown, Co Westmeath Jewish people must be defended The world is reeling from yet another hate-filled attack on the Jewish people, this time at a Kosher supermarket in Paris in which unsuspecting and innocent victims lost their lives to the world's oldest hatred - anti-Semitism. World leaders have condemned the hostage-taking episodes in France and shown solidarity at this testing time, and that will give a modicum of encouragement while so many Jewish families will meet around their Shabbat tables to ponder the latest deaths that were perpetrated just because the victims were Jews. The Hebrew word from where we get the English word 'Jew' is 'Yehudah' (Judah), which means 'praise.' The Jewish people have contributed greatly in the arenas of medicine, science and the arts, in banking and the world of commerce. It is only fitting that we extol their virtues at a time when their very existence is being undermined by such targeted terrorist attacks. We in the democratic nations must seek to always condemn and root out any anti-Semitism that raises its ugly head in the communities where Jews live, worship and work. The Christian nations take their Judeo-Christian traditions, laws and culture from the Bible and the history of the Hebrew people and we should acknowledge that by showing our gratitude and loudly condemning all anti-Jewish rhetoric and actions which must make families and individuals feel extremely vulnerable. History attests that hatred and even murder of innocent Jews is not new, but it must not be tolerated in European countries where Christian values have been inextricably linked to Jewish ones for centuries and where the contribution of the Jews has been a real blessing. May we wish 'shalom' or 'peace' to the families in Paris and to the extended Jewish community world-wide. We have a common bond with the Lord God of Israel. Amen. Colin Nevin Bangor, Co Down Hard lessons I hope the outrages of the recent past will have opened the eyes of the more gullible among us as to what we could possibly encounter in the future and also what the Jewish people are suffering every day. It also proves that there are those among us who would destroy everything we hold dear, even our religious beliefs. I just hope we desist from watering down - in any way - our Christian beliefs, and to show these people that, like the French, we still cherish our beliefs. Remember, in this twisted logic we could be targeted because we helped an ally in the recent war effort in Iraq. It goes without saying that we should assist in any way the constant struggle to keep this most serious threat at bay - or we'll all pay the price. John N Barry Malahide, Co Dublin Meditations on Mass I recently attended Mass in my local church in Salthill. At the start of Mass the priest made reference to the terrible events in Paris the previous week and the way people had come together in solidarity to express their anger over what had happened. I thought of loving-kindness meditations I had attended recently where participants were invited to send loving thoughts to people in their lives - friends and enemies alike. This can have huge benefits to the person - helping them to remove negative, energy-sapping thoughts from their mind. Later, to coincide with the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord, which we were celebrating, the priest invited us to renew our baptismal promises. Don't most organisations have initiation ceremonies? The format of the Mass is the same every Sunday, except for specific readings. There is actually a hypnotic quality to this, repetition of familiar phrases can have a relaxing effect, similar to playing bongo drums in a group setting. One of the purposes of Mass is to enable us to tune into our spiritual side, isn't this what many meditation techniques are about as well? In Our Lord's prayer we are urged to "forgive those who trespass against us." Many therapists are of the opinion that true healing cannot take place until a person is in a position to forgive someone who may have harmed them. Don't forget what I said earlier about sending loving thoughts to our enemies in loving kindness meditations. Tommy Roddy Salthill, Galway Irish Independent 
