christianity
{ Donal Lynch 
    March 23 2008 04:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/mutiny-of-the-brandos-26432315.html }
As the scion of one of Hollywood's most dysfunctional dynasties, it was perhaps inevitable that Christian Brando would have a tragic life. The 49-year-old son of Marlon Brando and Anna Kashfi, he died earlier this year in a public hospital bed. What chance did he have? His mother had him abducted, his father sired numerous children while carrying on affairs with some of his male co-stars and Christian himself shot his half-sister's lover dead and battled for years with drink and drug addiction. Donal Lynch looks back at a tortured life IT WAS a scene that all concerned felt was better Marlon Brando had never lived to see: His "number one son", Christian, lying in a coma, barely kept alive on a respirator, his body wracked by the effects of crystal meth addiction, slowly succumbing to pneumonia. Marlon, who had felt guilty that he had "failed Christian as a father", had always insisted that his son be taken care of, but various legal difficulties had meant that the film legend's money could not be spent on him. The Los Angeles hospital bed he eventually died in was a public one -- Christian had no health insurance. The cause of death wasn't immediately known -- some of the family insisted it was pneumonia while the tabloids pointed to Christian's years of hard living but all agreed on one thing: it was a grubby, ignominious end for a man whose life had lurched from one tragedy to the next. Brando Sr had always insisted that his son understand the dynamics of the family, and both would have known that the people gathered around Christian's bedside were at war. A lifetime of bad feeling and resentment sown in the father's time came blooming into public view with the son's death. The bewilderingly large collection of ex-wives, half-brothers and -sisters, business partners, former lovers, aides and confidantes could not agree whether Christian should be cremated (as his father had been) or buried, which outfit he should wear in either case, or which version of Christian's cause of death should be released to the press swarming outside the hospital. They also disagreed whether an autopsy should be performed. His mother, Anna Kashfi, who had long been estranged both from Marlon and Christian's ex-wife Deborah Presley -- who continued to insist, despite a court judgment to the contrary, that she was related to Elvis Presley -- was angry that Christian had not been rushed to hospital sooner after he collapsed, and wanted to find out for sure what had really killed him. The executors of the will, which included his girlfriend Donna Geon, who found him unconscious on the floor of his apartment, were against this. (The LA County coroners later agreed to address Kashfi's concerns and an autopsy was performed -- reports are still pending). Mostly though, they argued about money. Despite Marlon Brando's $21m legacy it emerged that the beneficiaries of his will -- Kashfi and Presley -- had run out of money and said that they were forced to sell their stories to the tabloids to raise funds to pay for Christian's funeral. Because of disputes about the veracity of Marlon's will the majority of his legacy remained in the hands of the executors, who refused to part with a penny of it, even to pay for his own son's burial. Christian's death thus reopened old wounds and reignited lawsuits which had lain in legal limbo since the old actor passed on in 2004. The story could be traced back to two weeks before Marlon's death when, seemingly inexplicably, his will was changed to remove his long-time confidante -- and Christian's female carer after Kashfi lost custody of him -- JoAnn Corrales, and Alice Marchak, who had known the actor for over 50 years and was, according to his autobiography, "the most trusted figure in his life" and instead replace them with Mike Medavoy, a film producer who had been head of Orion pictures and had worked on among other things, Zodiac and License to Wed, his brother-in-law, an accountant who Brando had never met, and Avra Douglas -- who was friends with Rebecca Brando, Marlon's ex-wife. It was suggested in court that the codicil to change the will had been forged, but lawyers for the new executors denied this, saying Brando had many reasons to change his will, including the fact that his relationship with Corrales had broken down and that he felt Marchak was too old and frail to administer a $21.6m estate. In the years after Marlon Brando's, death these new executors allowed the actor's coral island paradise in Tahiti, where Christian was conceived, to be bought by a man whose offers Brando Sr had spurned several times during his life. Tetiaroa, the French Polynesian island was the place Brando was said to mentally flee to when the shot dead his sister's boyfriend, Dag Drollet, after she had told him that Dag, the son of a Tahitian businessman, had been beating her. Christian, who was reported to be drunk at the time, claimed that the gun had gone off accidentally during a struggle with Drollet, a claim that was discovered to be false. Drollet had been shot in the face while watching television. Marlon Brando tried in vain to resuscitate him, and later took what the prosecuting attorney William Clark called "an active role to limit our ability to prosecute". He moved Cheyenne out the country to Tahiti arranged the best legal defence team for Christian. Cheyenne, who was diagnosed as schizophrenic, later admitted that Drollet had not beaten her. At the age of 25 she would hang herself and was buried next to Drollet in Tahiti. Christian's trial, coming months before William Kennedy Smith's day in court, was the first big celebrity trial of the media age and made headlines all around the world. The sight of the once handsome Marlon Brando, morbidly obese and sobbing that he had failed as a father, created a sensation and was, some cynical onlookers remarked, the performance of his career. Whatever the sincerity of Brando Sr's turn in the dock it seemed to make an impression on the jury. In February 1991, after a plea bargain, Christian pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter and was sentenced to 10 years in prison, of which he served only four and a half. Upon his release, Marlon sent him back to Kalama and the watchful eye of JoAnn Corales. He was now beyond her reach however, and sank deeper into addictions to drink and drugs, especially crystal meth (a methamphetamine), which was fast becoming the most popular recreational drug in America. Predictably, he also had run-ins with the law, mostly on minor charges. In 2001, police answering an emergency services call found Christian under a table hallucinating. He didn't see much of his father in these years, Marlon having become a recluse who rarely left the vast master bedroom of his Mulholland Drive home. Christian returned to LA only after his father's death and was apparently deeply upset when his father's ashes were sent via overnight courier to his (Christian's) office. Fearing perhaps that a huge inheritance would merely mean Christian had more money to spend on drink and drugs Marlon had left him nothing in the will and the executors evicted him and Deborah from the Mulholland Drive home before selling it to Jack Nicholson for a reported $10m. This seemed to trigger a breakdown in the relationship between Christian and Deborah and they separated a short time later, with her citing spousal abuse. Christian pleaded guilty to this and received a suspended sentence. The next year in a civil suit Deborah claimed that Christian had terrorised her and won a $45,000 settlement, which was apparently never paid, giving her a claim over his estate. In the mid part of this decade Christian was unable to hold down a steady job -- he worked sporadically as a welder and a woodcutter -- and after an auction of some of Brando's memorabilia at Christie's the executors gave him a $200,000 lump sum, which he quickly blew. Although seemingly he didn't have his father's acting skills drama seemed to follow Christian around. And before he left the stage there was, unbelievably, one last act left to play. He had had an affair with Bonnie Lee Bakley, who had made a career out of pursuing and blackmailing celebrities. She became pregnant and gave birth to a child who she told Christian was his and named it "Christian" (even though it was a girl). The child, in fact, turned out to be that of actor Robert Blake (star of the Seventies detective series Baretta), who insisted the baby be renamed "Rose". Two years later. Bakley was murdered -- she was found in a car park with a bullet in her head -- and although all the evidence seemed to point to Blake having done it, at the trial his defence team dramatically produced a recording of Christian telling her, "you're lucky there ain't someone out there willing to put a bullet in your head". Despite this Blake was convicted and Christian was allowed the dignity of not having to live out his few remaining drug-addled years in a state penitentiary. Christian lived just long enough to see his nephew Tuki Brando, the son of his dead sister, become the face of the Versace menswear campaign for 2007. Tuki inherited the bone structure but none of the Brando largesse. The Tahiti resort, named after his family, that Christian was so against continues to be developed although a spokeswoman for it confirmed this week that it would not be opening this year as was originally planned and that it would probably be 2010 before the first guests arrive. With Christian's death his inheritance now passes to his mother, Anna Kashfi, possibly the very last person that Marlon Brando would have wanted his money to go to. Christian Brando was buried just over a month ago in Kalama, the only place he ever found any real peace in life. Friends who attended the funeral said that he had been making a concerted effort to turn his life around when he fell ill, although he had become depressed last summer when he failed his welding exam. Just 50 people attended the service privately and it took some time after the burial before a headstone was erected and the grave tended to. The chaplain who performed the service, Captain Timothy Berg said, "I guess as a society we've made it really hard for people who are famous. God he had a hard life, he really did and I guess that's true of a lot of people who are born into fame, who don't choose it for themselves." Autopsy results in the coming weeks will establish what finally killed Christian Brando, but to most observers it was clear that the seeds of his self-destructive living were sown many years ago in that tropical paradise where his father's ashes were scattered. 
