christianity
{ Paul Whitington 
    January 10 2009 04:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/tv-radio/christianity-a-history-26504681.html }
No folks, Ann Widdecombe did not rashly agree to act as Marshall in a Ku Klux Klan parade. Instead, she's a participant in this new documentary series from Channel 4 that examines the history, implications and future of Christianity. Ms Widdecombe, a relatively recent convert to Catholicism from Anglicanism, will ponder the bloody legacy of the Reformation in a few weeks' time, and other participants include Cherie Blair, Michael Portillo, Dr Robert Beckford and Professor Colin Blakemore. Michael Portillo will look at the drastic compromises Christianity was forced to make when it was adopted by the Roman Empire; Rageh Omaar will show how the Crusades poisoned Christianity's relations with Islam; Robert Beckford will look at the impact of Christianity in Britain since the mass conversions of the 6th century, and Colin Blakemore will show how the Biblical world view was buffeted by the Enlightenment. Also, Kwame Kwei-Armah looks at how Christianity was exported at the barrel of a gun and investigates the extraordinary global spread of the faith in its various forms, while Cherie Blair will ponder the Christian future. First up is novelist Howard Jacobson, who will look at Christianity from a Jewish perspective. Himself a Jew, Jacobson examines the origins and consequences of Christian belief and argues that, although Christianity originated in devout Judaism, for Jews it has by and large been a calamity. Jacobson talks to Christian and Jewish scholars. He visits Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Galilee and Rome to find out more about Jesus, the Jew. He looks into how key Christian beliefs -- including the notion of a Messiah and baptism -- have roots in Judaism. Furthermore, he asserts that Jesus didn't intend to start a new religion; that for Jesus's family, who were all Jewish, the new movement remained very much within Judaism. For them, he was a charismatic rabbi. Christianity, Jacobson asserts, was created more than 20 years after Christ's death, and the break with Judaism -- for political as well as religious reasons -- was spearheaded by the Apostle Paul, also a Jew. Paul had never met Jesus and was not one of the original 12 disciples. But it was he, Jacobson asserts, who severed the link with Judaism. Jacobson cites key episodes in the Christian New Testament, such as Roman Governor Pontius Pilate condemning Jesus to death at the behest of a baying Jewish mob, and the alleged betrayal of Christ by Judas, whose very name sounds similar to 'Jew', which he believes helped to lay the foundations of anti-Semitism. It was only in 1965 that the Catholic Church finally reversed its official attitude and admitted that the Jews had not killed Christ. Jews first arrived in Britain with William the Conqueror and Jacobson uncovers shocking episodes of anti-Semitism, including a pogrom and the emergence of the 'blood libel'. Under Edward I, every Jew had to wear a yellow badge -- believed by many to represent greed and treachery -- premeditating in Britain events replicated more than 650 years later in Nazi Germany. Jacobson concludes by asking whether Judaism is Christianity's guilty secret, the elephant in the corner and the source of so many of its traditions and beliefs. 
