christianity
{  
    August 24 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/release-of-report-was-fair-minded-not-a-shock-26313263.html }
BROTHER Edmund Garvey, head of the Christian Brother Order in Ireland, issued a press statement on Tuesday expressing "shock and dismay" at the decision of the Archbishop of Dublin to release the Father Moore Report of 1962. The statement was issued to 'The Irish Catholic' only, and the editor decided to lead yesterday's paper with the story. Brother Garvey deplored the issuing of "any document" under consideration by the Commission on Child Abuse, despite the fact that many documents under consideration are already in the public domain, including newspaper reports on the charging of Father Moore with abuse. Dr Diarmuid Martin's decision to release the report is consistent with his own view, expressed when he arrived in Ireland in the context of the crisis facing the Catholic Church over child abuse, that unless and until all documents are in the public arena, no conclusion will be found satisfactory to all sides. Brother Garvey also claims in his press statement that the Christian Brothers were aware, since June 2005, of the Moore Report. He says they were made aware of the Report by the Commission and not by the Archbishop. In more than two years since then, what may be called "the other side", despite many requests for the same document, have been denied it until the Archbishop's decision to release it. Ownership Brother Garvey says in his statement that "the Christian Brothers have been unable to obtain permission from the Commission to Inquire into Child Abuse to publish the report of the Inspectors." The Commission does not control this report. It is a document in public ownership, specifically the Department of Education. That department of State has consistently refused to release the inspectors' report to the public or to the interested individuals who were at Artane and need to see what was said about their experiences there. Brother Garvey claims that "the report of the inspectors, including the medical inspector, comprehensively deals with the criticisms of the chaplain." This implies that the Christian Brothers have obtained sight of another document that has been consistently held back from "the other side". It also can mean only one thing, in respect of Father Moore, that his report is not truthful. The content, published last Saturday in this newspaper, described Father Moore's fundamental and far-reaching judgments about every service intended for the inmates of Artane. It found that the poor quality in almost every activity in Artane had not been changed since the Cussen Report, of 1936, itself a severe indictment of the industrial schools. Moore's Report gave specific details of an appallingly harsh punishment regime. It condemned the education at Artane, saying that it did nothing for the boys imprisoned. Institution These are not matters amenable to reverse judgments on the basis of a two-day visit by Department of Education inspectors. They could not have discovered the complete opposite to what Father Moore reported after working in the institution for many months. Brother Garvey claims that the Christian Brothers "are not seeking to hide any information nor to disclose what is now properly with the Commission". Yet they criticise the Archbishop for the release of the report. When the Archbishop, by releasing Moore's Report, made a worthwhile and fair-minded attempt to rectify this imbalance, two things happened: the Christian Brothers condemned what he had done and the Commission on Child Abuse said, as reported in 'The Irish Catholic, ' that "the Commission does not feel that publication of the report will prejudice the work of the Commission'. This may be so, technically, because the Commission has finished hearing evidence. In the light of Tuesday's Christian Brother statement, as well as other issues such as the Taoiseach's unrectified conflict of evidence before the Commission, it could wisely reconsider that conclusion to its work. 
