christianity
{  
    December 02 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/new-bishop-installed-in-st-flannans-cathedral-27462563.html }
by Liam Doran The 800 year old Cathedral of St Flannan in Killaloe was thronged on Sunday afternoon for the enthronement of Right Rev. Michael Hugh Gunton Mayes as Bishop of Killaloe. Bishop Mayes, who is 59, was educated at the Royal School, Armagh, before going to study for the ministry. He was ordained in 1964 for the curacy of St Columbas Portadown. He served in Japan from 1968 to 1974, and on his return to Ireland became Rector of St Michaels Union, where he served until 1986. He was then Rector of Moviddy union until 1988. That year he became Rector of Rathcooney (Glanmire ), and Archdeacon of Cork. In 1993 he was consecrated Bishop of Kilmore, Elphin and Ardagh. He was elected Bishopof Limerick and Killaloe in September, in succession to Right Rev Edward Darling, who has retired. The installation in St Marys Cathedral, Limerick, was on November 12. He and his wife Beth, have three children. A brother, John, is Rector of Waterside, Derry; another brother Andrew, is Vice provost of Trinity, and a third brother, Peter, is an engineer. In accordance with tradition, the Bishop knocked on the door three times with the point of his staff. The door was then opened, and the Bishop was received by the Dean of St Flannans, Very Rev Nicholas Cummins, and members of the Cathedral Chapter. The processional hymn was “Bright the vision that delighted”, written by one of the Bishops predecessors in Killaloe, Richard Mant, who was bishop here from 1820 to 1823, when he was translated to Down. The Mandate for the installation of Bishop Mayes into Killaloe was read by the Registrar, Canon Joseph Condell, Roscrea. The Dean then conducted the Bishop to the Episcopal Seat, and inducted and installed him into possession of the Bishopric and all rights, jurisdictions and prerorgatives pertaining thereto. Clergy attending included Very Rev J.M.G.Sirr, Dean of Limerick: Ven. Donald Keegan, Archdeacon of Killaloe; Ven. Malcolm Shannon, Archdeacon of Ardfert; Right Rev Dom Christopher Dillon,OSB, Abbot of Glenstal; Right Rev Dom Laurence Walsh, OCSO, Abbot of Roscrea; Ven Michael Nuttall, Archdeacon of Limerick; Very Rev Brian Geoghegan, PP, Killaloe; Very Rev Michael Hogan PP, Castleconnell; Very Rev James Minogue AP, do; Very Rev Pat Sexton PP Scariff; Rev Wayne Carney, Rector, Banagher; Rev Arthur Minion, Rector Shinrone, Rev Canon Robert Hanna, Rector, Ennis, Rev Sid Morant, Rector, Nenagh; Rev Stephen Neill, Rector, Cloughjordan; Very Rev Edmond O’Rahelly, PP, Ballina; Rev Janet White-Spunner, AM, Shinrone; Rev Sheila Johnson, AM, Boyle, Co. Roscommon; Rev David Range, Methodist Church. The Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Islands, Ms Sile de Valera, TD, was in the congregation. Mr Bryan Brislane was at the organ. The first lesson was read by Mr John Randall, the second by Mr Hugh Weir, Diocesan Lay Reader, and the Gospel by Rev Patricia Hanna, A.M., Ennis. Intercessions were by Jonathan Conran, Sarah Hughes, Sandra Lefroy and Peter Denison-Edson.  “A LOSS OF NERVE” In his address, the Bishop said that the Church in the western world is frequently accused of a loss of nerve. Those who have lived more than a couple of decades or so can vividly remember the certainty and confidence that once prevailed. “Go into the world to preach the Gospel” was a commandment that was easy to identify with and almost as easy to obey. Many thousands of people did so.The missionary was a heroic figure bringing the benefits of Christian civilisation to the darkest corners of the earth.In Britain, the monarch’s NewYear or Birthday honours lists invariably contained a fair sprinkling of missionarfy names that were being given due recognition for services rendered on the mission field. You wont find them on those lists today. Not only does the Church seem to have lost its nerve, but the missionary is no longer the heroic figure he once was, and in many ways is something of a misfit. “What has happened to that stirring clarity of vision and certainty of purpose? When one compares it to the enthusiastic optimistic energy and certainty to be found, for example throughout the African or Latin American churches, one is forced to ask what is gone wrong?” Bishop Mayes said that the very question assumes that somebody is guilty, And it has produced internal bickering and chaos within the Church. Mutrual recriminations abound. Its the fault of the bishops, the Biblical scholars, the theologians, the liberals, the fundamentalists, or the cranks. He said that if the answer was as simple as that, the problem would have been resolved long ago.But it is more complex. There is to begin with, no longer a single view that can be identified as “the Western viewpoint”. Our world is now marked by relativism, a pluralism of ideas and outlooks that frequently contradict each other, and each of which clamours for recognition. “And of course in this democratic day and age, one persons opinion is as good as anyone else’s. We have a supoermarket of opinions, and the choice is yours. Whether they are true or false doesnt matter because you cant ultimately prove it one way or another” He said that secondly, and closely related to it, is the encounter betwen Christianity and other very sophisticated faiths such as Buddhism or Islam. To deal with ignorance and criplling superstition is one thing. To deal with faiths that are capable of producing genuine goodness and holiness is a different matter altogether. It is easy to show one’s fath is unique. No other faith is quite the same. But that does not necessarily prove that it is superior, and one has to avoid the trap of comparing the best of one with the worst of another. Ignorance, dangerous bigotry and superstition are to be found not a million miles away from Christianity either, and the results of sectarian hatred are to be found in a lot of cemeteries in this land. Christian missionary confidence has been badly shaken by the persistent challenge from other non Christian faiths;-”physican, heal thyself.”. He said that thirdly, it is widely accepted that Christian civilisation can no longer easily be described as Christian. “In the context of mision, what we see is not so much a loss of confidence as a profound re orientation of outlook. It is impossible to recapture the stirring certainties of an earlier generation. “God is on our side” no longer applies. He sems to have departed from us, and the command “Go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature” has lost its force as a mission statement. It needs to be replaced, but by what? There is one that to my knowledge has never been particularly associated with mission, but which seems to be more relevant to the times we live in. “You are looking for Jesus of Nazareth, He is not here. He is risen and has gone ahead of you into Galile. You will find him there,as he told you:” He is not here. He is risen. He is beyond whatever doctrinal or cultural boundaries you seek to impose on him. He has gone ahead of you. You cannot even bring Him. He is there already. Now, go and look for Him. “There is always something elusive about God, even for people with faith. He is there,on the edge, but never finally within reach. He may be glimpsed, but never pinned down.Because we are dominated by busyness and activity, loving to be where all the action is, we seldom notice what is going on at the edge. It is not important enough. But it is on the fringes that God may be found, for he frequently travels incognito. “When I was in prison, you visited me. When I was hungry, you fed me, when When In was naked you clothed me.”But when did we see in prison or hungry or naked ?” “when you did it to one of the least important of these, you did it to me” 
