christianity
{ Bill Gardner 
    January 01 2015 11:59 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/movies/movie-news/jamie-dornan-says-the-fifty-shades-love-story-is-more-important-than-the-bondage-in-film-30876756.html }
The male lead in the upcoming 'Fifty Shades of Grey' film has defended the movie against claims it is misogynistic, describing it as a "love story". Irish actor Jamie Dornan, who plays the sado-masochistic billionaire Christian Grey in the Hollywood adaptation of the best-selling book, said scenes of humiliation did not send out an anti-feminist message. Instead he said the movie would show that submissive sex is enjoyed by "very powerful men" as well as women. The model-turned-actor (32) stars opposite Dakota Johnson who plays Anastasia Steel, the student who falls for his charms. In an interview for 'Elle' magazine, he said: "I can understand why people say tying a woman up and spanking her is misogynistic. But the love story is more important than the BDSM (bondage) aspect." 
Close
 Jamie Dornan pictured with Dakota Johnson in the film version of Fifty Shades of Grey  / Instead he said the movie would show that submissive sex is enjoyed by "very powerful men" as well as women. "I mean, we are going to tell a love story, you know, it can't just be what happens in the Red Room, that's not a film. There's so much more going on than that." When the trailer was released in July, it provoked an angry attack from conservative groups in America. Moral watchdogs issued statements calling on people to take action against the "sexually violent" film. The pressure group Morality in Media said that the production helped to promote a "rape and sexual violence culture that is now permeating our society". 
Close
 Jamie Dornan stars in the Fifty Shades Of Grey movie as Christian Grey / But Mr Dornan claimed the film did not promote violence against women, and added: "Actually, more men are submissives than women. Very powerful men. It's a far bigger scene than I imagined - in pretty much any city in the world." Dornan is a former model for Calvin Klein, and starred in BBC Two crime drama series 'The Fall'. He was in a high-profile relationship with fellow actor Keira Knightley from 2003 to 2005. Dornan competed with actors including Alexander Skarsgard, and Christian Cooke for the part, which required the actor to film explicit scenes. The film is set for release next month. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
