christianity
{ Andrea Smith 
    September 03 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/finding-love-at-the-stage-door-37271303.html }
When Brian Mitchell met Christiane O'Mahony in 2013, he quickly learned that harpists don't like other people touching their instruments. Nonetheless, he managed to touch her heart when he helped her to bring her instruments in to the Everyman theatre in Cork, where she had a six-week role as a harpist/actor in the opera Orpheus. "Having two harps is like trying to manage two toddlers," Christiane laughs, adding that she was feeling flustered because it was rush hour and the Everyman is located on the busy MacCurtain Street. As the theatre's assistant technical manager, Brian was very helpful, holding doors and giving her a guided tour of the theatre along the way. "I was stressed out but I thought that this guy was chatty and very nice," she says. "We crossed paths a lot during the week of 'teching', and although we were really busy, I must have fancied him and noticed him because I remember arriving into the pub after a long day of teching, and being happy that he was there." While Christiane was a bit distracted initially, the draw for Brian was instant. "I was attracted to her immediately," he says. "She's beautiful, with a great personality." Upon arrival at the pub, Christiane mentioned that she had booked a stand-up comedy gig, and herself and Brian got into a conversation. "We had a lively discussion and became engrossed and were sparking off one another," he says. "We were surrounded by people, but we turned around at midnight and suddenly noticed that the place was empty. So we went to a late bar to continue our conversation and it took off from there." Christiane mentioned a show she wanted to see in Waterford on their day off, so they both went and also took in a lovely cliff walk, which is where their first kiss took place. "Christiane jokes that if she'd turned me down, I'd have been able to push her off the cliff," Brian laughs. At that point, Christiane was living in Dublin and Brian was in Cork, a situation that continues to this day. Christiane is from just outside Tullamore, where her dad John is a dentist and her mum Bernadette is a psychotherapist. She has two brothers, and boarded at the Ursuline Convent in Thurles, then went to Trinity to do a degree in psychology followed by a degree in acting studies. After graduation, she worked with Druid and in the Abbey and Peacock, and fell into doing stand-up comedy. She was a semi-finalist in the UK's Funny Women and Musical Comedy Awards and she also won second prize in Show Me the Funny. "Brian was warm, kind and very interesting and I loved that he wasn't afraid to ask me out and tell me that he liked me," says Christiane (33). "I went on to do a gig at a festival in Athlone when I left Cork, and he sent chocolates and a little note to the hotel, which was really romantic. It's not easy going out with an actor, but Brian has always been so supportive." Brian (44) is from Cork City, where his parents are Declan and Patricia. He grew up with three sisters, the youngest of whom, Karen, passed away in April aged 32 through illness. She was much-loved and his grief is still tangible, but he says that Christiane has been an amazing support to him and his entire family through their very sad loss. Brian previously worked in a plastics factory on shift work, and came to a sudden decision to leave after seven years. "I knew that if I didn't leave now, I'd be a 'lifer'," he recalls. "I didn't know what I wanted to do with my life but I knew it wasn't that. The wave of relief I felt driving away was incredible." Brian's housemate was working on the Cork Midsummer Festival at the time and mentioned to him that there was crew work going. He took it and loved it and felt that theatre was the area for him. After working freelance for a year, he got the job with the Everyman 13 years ago. "I love it," he says. "It has been a great experience. Lighting design would probably be my main skillset, but I'm involved in all facets of production." Christiane and Brian set up a company together in 2016 called For The Birds, and their first production, Sisters of the Rising, made its debut at The Everyman, thanks to the encouragement of Julie Kelleher, and then went on a national tour. Their third short film, Meitherhood, is in post-production. Their current theatre production is Seahorse, which will debut at Dublin Fringe. While Christiane has written it and will act in it, Brian designed the set and lighting. Described as a razor-sharp and funny play about Mara, a woman experiencing an existential crisis, the play uses animation and videography to transport audiences to an underwater, radical feminist world of seahorses, where Mara is trying to figure out what she wants in a place of seemingly endless possibilities. Brian and Christiane have loved working on it together, and they say that even though their living arrangements are unconventional, they remain deeply committed to one another and very much see a future together. "The arts industry is different, so we're not like other couples living together and doing 9-5 jobs, but the connection is very much there," says Brian. 'Seahorse' will debut at Dublin Fringe Festival from September 18-22, at Project Arts Centre. The festival opens on Saturday and runs until September 23. www.fringefest.com Sunday Indo Living 
