christianity
{  
    April 20 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/lifestyle/exhibition-on-the-early-christians-in-swords-36811701.html }
Evidence of early Christian settlement in Swords is still visible for all to see in the heritage rich capital of Fingal but will be made even clearer with a very special exhibition at St Cronan's Pastoral Centre, this month. An exhibition entitled, 'Early Christian Swords' will be held in St Cronan's Pastoral Centre, Brackenstown Road, Swords from Saturday, April 14 to Saturday, April 27.  The Swords area is steeped in history and it was an important centre for Christianity in the early days of the Irish Church.  Swords is probably best known historically as the temporary resting place of Brian Boru following his death at the Battle of Clontarf in 1014. His body lay overnight in the church at Swords and later processed to Armagh where the High King was buried.  The exhibition will feature displays on St Colmcille's Monastery, Glasmore Abbey and The Nunnery, and the local Holy Wells of St Colmcille, St Cronan and St Werburgh.  The exhibition will also feature information on recent important archaeological findings in the Swords area.  These important developments include the discovery in 2003 of a previously unknown cemetery at Mount Gamble.  This previously unknown cemetery was in use from the arrival of Christianity in circa AD 550 until 1150.  There will also be displays on the recently rediscovered ecclesiastical complex in the Mooretown/Oldtown area, on either side of the Rathbeale Road.  Since 2010, Fingal County council has a Conservation and Management Plan in place for this area.  The plans include the establishment of four archaeological parks to preserve the historical sites.  The exhibition has been organised by an interested group from St Cronan's Parish, Brackenstown and the event co-ordinator, Paddy O'Byrne said the group thanked Courtney Deery Heritage Consultancy, who carried out the design and editorial for the exhibition.  Having reviewed the project Fingal County Council and Creative Ireland awarded the maximum grant of €1,500. The group is also thankful to Gannon Homes for their kind donation of €2,000 towards the cost of the exhibition. Fingal Independent 
