christianity
{  
    May 25 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/swords-aid-worker-urges-people-to-help-the-displaced-36930173.html }
A Swords aid worker is urging local people to remember those forced to flee their homes by war or natural disaster. The appeal was made by Christian Aid, which works with people living in some of the poorest places in the world. This year the organisation is highlighting the plight of people who have been uprooted within their own countries because of war or natural disasters.  Today, more than 40 million people have been forced to flee by conflict, accounting for approximately two thirds of those who have had to abandon their homes. A further 24 million were forced to flee by disasters in 2016 alone. Yet, because they haven't crossed a border, the public rarely hears about them. Swords woman and Christian Aid worker, Meabh Smith said: 'Vast numbers of people have fled to other parts of their home countries to escape violence or disasters. They leave in fear for their lives, not knowing what lies ahead. They are frightened, traumatised and have lost all of their possessions 'Yet, despite the huge number of people affected, as they haven't crossed a border, these people are forgotten, receiving almost no political attention, funding or support. They are among the most vulnerable to poverty and exploitation in the world.' As part of its Christian Aid Week, it focused on Haiti, where thousands of people regularly experience some of the worst natural disasters on earth.  More than seven years on from the devastating earthquake in Port-au-Prince in 2010, an estimated 38,000 people are still uprooted from their homes. And in November 2016, Hurricane Matthew wreaked yet more havoc across the southern coast of the country, killing 546 people and destroying homes, businesses and infrastructure. Ahead of Hurricane Matthew, Christian Aid and its Haitian partner, were able to warn people, helping to evacuate 5,000 families and saving many lives. In the immediate aftermath the organisation supported urgently-needed shelter materials, hygiene products such as soap, food, seeds and emergency funds, so people could buy items that they desperately needed. Disaster-resistant homes were built, giving people safe, secure places to live. Meabh said: 'We're incredibly grateful for the goodwill of our supporters in North Dublin, including churches, communities and volunteers, each Christian Aid Week and beyond.  'Their tremendous support through collections, Big Brekkies and coffee mornings will raise vital funds for life-changing work with people who are trying to rebuild their lives.' To help to change lives this Christian Aid Week donate online at www.christianaid.ie or call 01 4967040.  Fingal Independent 
