christianity
{  
    May 08 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/localnotes/the-christian-brothers-arrive-27110522.html }
When the Christian Brothers arrived in Drogheda  in 1857, a building at West Gate (Trinity Street), already functioning as a school, (the Patrician Brothers had been there) was handed over to them in November of that year. No sooner was it opened, when the need for extra accommodation arose because of the large number of children who presented themselves for admission. From the beginning West Gate was a private school. Some Christian Brothers’ schools had worked under the National Board of Education, but the irksome restrictions of the board about religious instruction and the displaying of emblems and statues in the classrooms led to constant friction between the Brothers and the Board’s inspectors. The result was that the community and maintenance of the school was provided for by annual collections, which usually realised £200. Lack of accommodation at the West Gate and the impossibility of expansion at that site caused the Pastor and Brothers to look for more suitable premises. Following a collection which netted £320 they purchased a site at Sunday’s Gate, then known as ‘The Orchard’, and erected a two-room school which was first opened to pupils in 1859. The large debt on the new school was paid for by a lottery – a novelty in Drogheda at that time, which raised £600. In July 1866 the Sunday Gate school was stripped of its roof and a storey and annexes were added. In September the work was completed at a cost of £300. The following year saw the erection of the Brothers’ convent in King Street to a design by Pugin and Ashlin. In 1925, in common with most Christian Brothers’ primary schools in Ireland, the school affiliated with the Department of Education. This was possible under a native government which raised no objection to statues or religious emblems in the classrooms and placed no restriction on religious instruction. The long stand of the Brothers for entire freedom in the teaching of Christian doctrine was vindicated. In 1934 the Brothers applied to An Roinn Oideachais for sanction for the erection of a new primary school at Sunday’s Gate. Designed by a past pupil, Louis Turley, this six-room school was opened in 1936. I remember attending fourth, fifth and sixth classes here in the 1940s with teachers Michael Leech, PJ Ward and Edward (Eddie) Sheridan sitting the Primary Certificate examination here. Brother Donnelly was the superior at the time. The school was further extended in 1955. Our Lady of Lourdes was erected on the monastery garden and part of the playground, at the back of the main building. Despite the Department of Education’s very substantial grant in aid, £6,200 had to be raised locally. That this was met was due almost entirely to the energy and generosity of Monsignor John F Stokes PP VG. With the opening of Our Lady’s School, the original school at West Gate was closed and the entire Christian Brothers’ establishment was centred at Sunday’s Gate. Today there are 500 boys on the roll. 
