christianity
{  
    January 02 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/blinkered-horsemen-of-the-apocalypse-26252784.html }
Believe or be forever damned, say the End-Timers, who see body-piercing and street art as symbols of our pagan culture, writes Stephen DoddAPOCALYPSE has its own jargon. We are living, say the doom-mongers, in End Times, the final days of humanity on earth. Christian fundamentalists eagerly await the Rapture, when believers expect to be carried away to a heaven in the stars. Some say it will happen before the great Tribulation God's last painful scourge while others conjecture that everybody will have to sit it out, waiting for escape. Here, dissent is already vocal. You might believe the end is coming, but are you pre-Trib, mid-Trib or post-Trib? Among the millennium doomsdayers, such niceties have become the mark of your faith. Patrick Heron, a Dublin author and free-form Christian with a penchant for Last Days theory, takes such matters very seriously indeed. ``The earth is ripening for judgement,'' Heron announces, early on in his new Apocalypse 2000, an alarming end-of-the-world text with its feet firmly planted in wider Armageddon theory. ``The day is at hand. It is make-your-mind-up time the choice is yours.'' The choice, if the advice of Heron and thousands of other Apocalypse forecasters is to be given any credence at all, is between becoming a fundamentalist, old-school Christian, and being flung into the furnace of damnation. In his text, Heron spells out the alternative. Dublin could be bombed in a nuclear strike, he suggests. The whole world might be raked by famine and devastated by all-out war on an unprecedented scale. From this unhappy fate only devout Christians will be saved. The Rapture, the central tenet of End Times theory, centres on a claim that the faithful will be shuttled skywards while the battle of Armageddon rages. For Heron, as for his peers, grim calculation comes from the Book of Revelation, the Bible's most perplexing book and source material for innumerable bleak theories over many decades. Aleister Crowley, a practitioner of black magic, claimed he was the Great Beast, an Antichrist figure revealed to the apostle John in an End Times vision when he was 90 years old. Anti-nuclear campaigners have read warnings of atomic disaster in Revelation's lines. Others search the book for clues; numbers hidden in the arrangement of chapter headings, vague allusions in its astonishing imagery. Now, however, the coming millennium has emboldened the theorists. ``Over the past 30 years, more scholarship has been devoted to apocalypticism than in the last 300,'' says Bernard McGinn of Chicago University's Divinity School. In America, Last Days novels are selling in their millions. Muslims, too, have their own millennial doom theory, with the evil figure of Dajjal ranged against the forces of light. Patrick Heron puts his own cards on the table. He is no Christian apologist, but a true believer in the strict letter of the Bible. In Revelation, he claims, a canny reader can discern the clear timetable for the end of the world. ``It is a bit like being on the Titanic,'' he says. ``This is our opportunity to get off before it hits the iceberg.'' In the pages of the Bible, Heron believes, we are given warning of a false prophet who might come under the guise of a great political leader. This man will be the composite of the qualities of ``Nebuchadnezzar, Alexander the Great and Caesar Augustus.'' There are other portents to watch for. The rise of Islam, hedonism and war are all claimed as harbingers of doom. Heron is a Dublin businessman and the author of a previous tract on the Apocalypse. He is a Bible scholar, he claims, and is not aligned to any particular church grouping. This is hardly surprising, as he has little time for the established church, accusing Catholic priests of preaching lies, and suggesting the cult of the Virgin Mary is little more than a fraud. He casts a terminally jaundiced eye, too, over modern Irish society, and it is against such attitudes, perhaps, that his theories might best be judged. He condemns what he sees as a neo-paganism in Irish spirituality, rails against homosexuality, and attacks Gerry Ryan for giving airtime to a white witch. Galway is singled out for particular scorn, and Heron attacks the city's street festivals for pagan content and ``evil-looking masks''. Modern Irish fashion, too, earns the Apocalypticist's wrath. ``Both men and women are having their bodies pierced in various places now,'' he writes. ``This is the fashion. Most people regard this as just a phase, but to me it is the manifestation of this anti-Christian paganism which will be the new world religion.'' It might be tempting to dismiss Patrick Heron's theories as cranky, yet around the world thousands of End-Timers subscribe to similar views. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, political and economic events; all are sifted and analysed to see if they can be moulded to fit Revelation's mystical blueprint. One millennial doomsdayer has even set up an Internet site to speculate on the possible identity of the Antichrist. The unfortunate Abu Mazen, potential leader-in-waiting of the Palestinian Authority, is tagged as the likely culprit. To Patrick Heron's eyes, Ireland appears to be a particularly unhealthy place to spend the last days on earth. There is a ``spiritual void'' here, he argues, citing the plan to erect the O'Connell Street Spike as an example of pagan phallic worship. He attacks street sculptures in Dublin's Thomas Street and says they should not be considered as art. ``In reality, they are manifestations of our pagan culture,'' he says, ``for if we came across savages in the depths of the jungle, with their ear lobes pierced with huge rings, and bones through their noses, dancing around multi-coloured statues of their gods,we would surely refer to them as pagans.'' Such lamentable backwoods bigotry is the true terror of the Apocalyptic movement. Throughout its range, the single distinguishable characteristic is its certainty the same blinkered certainty that has prompted doomsday and suicide cults in recent years. The End-Timers' view is wholly exclusive, and entertains no notions that it may be wrong, or that any other creed or philosophy could be right. Heron shoots at easy targets, attacking the venality of the Catholic establishment while ignoring the message of other faiths, such as Buddhism, that offer a different culture and milder culture and their own logical message. Heron appears to be a brooding man, a bitter Mercury with an acid message to deliver. The established church is wrong; atheists and agnostics are wrong; all other religions are wrong. Somehow, Heron and the Apocalypticists are the only true bearers of imminent bad tidings. Would you believe a man who argues that the earth will be plunged into financial chaos because 200 million Christians are going to be whisked away to interstellar heaven? For those who find Armageddon theory either too appalling or altogether too unlikely for contemplation, there is some comfort to be found in the fact that not everyone takes the end of the world as seriously as Heron. A cartoonist once presented a bleak drawing of the four horsemen of the Apocalypse famine, pestilence, death and war with tattered rags hanging from their skeletal bodies. On one rider's chest was a clean T-shirt, bearing the advertising legend Eat at Joe's. Pestilence whispered to War: ``I do think Famine's letting the side down.'' * Apocalypse 2000 The Future, by Patrick Heron, is published by The Collins Press 
