christianity
{ David Quinn 
    May 25 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/fr-iggy-and-friends-are-so-wrong-on-this-one-26386365.html }
MY wife is Protestant. She comes from the opposite end of the Christian spectrum from me. Catholics have their holy pictures, their bells and their smells and their high rituals, but my wife's church has none of that. No holy pictures, no bells and smells, no rituals, no priests, and communion only once a month. And unlike Catholics, they believe that the bread and wine shared at communion is that and no more. I've gone along to her services numerous times and when I didn't know any better I took communion in her church, that is to say, I 'inter-communioned'. Why wouldn't I? It seemed the polite thing to do and anyway, aren't we all supposed to be in favour of ecumenism, that is, in favour of unity between Christians? However, it's probably at least ten years since I last took communion in my wife's church and that's because I now know better. It's not that I disrespect what her church believes, it's just that the Catholic ban on inter-communion now makes sense to me. Protestants regard inter-communion as a step along the road to unity. That's a respectable position. But Catholics regard it as the sign of unity already achieved. That's respectable too, and frankly makes more sense to me. Communion implies exactly that, communion among the believers, and not partial communion, the full thing. But 'ecumenism' is one of those words that seems to make people go soft in the head. That's why the vast majority of people appear to have been in favour of Fr Iggy O'Donovan and his two fellow Augustinians who celebrated a joint Mass with a clergyman of the Church of Ireland on Easter Sunday. It was an ecumenical matter, so where was the harm? Fr Iggy is still in the news because, not alone has he felt obliged to apologise for that event, it has just emerged that he has also been banned from teaching at the Augustinian university in Rome. Almost all commentary to date has been in favour of Fr Iggy and against the Catholic Church and almost all that commentary has been both unthinking and unreasonable. As I say, once that word 'ecumenical' get used, all critical thought comes to an end. And so there has been no attempt whatsoever to try and understand why the Catholic Church doesn't go along with events like this, and why the Church of Ireland doesn't either. Nor has there been any attempt to explain just how deeply un-ecumenical such an event really is, and why attempts to bang Catholic and Protestant heads together in the name of ecumenism isn't celebrating difference, it's an attempt to eradicate it. I could try and explain why the Catholic Church believes that Protestant Ministers are not validly ordained. I could also try and explain why many Protestants believe the Mass is blasphemous but I won't, because most people lack the patience to hear the explanations for these doctrinal differences. Instead they believe that the sincerely held beliefs of different Christians should be unceremoniously shoved to one side in the name of a vacuous and false unity. But I will try and explain why that Mass was, in reality, deeply unecumenical and the reason is rather simple. It is because for most Protestants the last thing you should do to advance Christian unity is celebrate a Mass. The Mass, after all, is one of the central things they rejected at the time of the Reformation 500 years ago. Therefore, while some members of the Church of Ireland might have beliefs about the Mass similar to those of Catholics, there are lots of members of that Church who don't. In addition, practically no Presbyterian Ministers, and no Methodist Ministers either, would be caught near an altar because the Mass is so far from their beliefs. Therefore, while Fr Iggy's Mass may have presented itself as an ecumenical event, it was one that automatically excluded, nay offended, all Presbyterians, all Methodists, many Catholics and many members of the Church of Ireland. So how's that for helping along Christian unity? But there's an additional irony that ought to be pointed out and it is this. Liberals fancy they are all for diversity and that we should celebrate difference. And so we should, up to a point. But for liberals that point comes when they encounter sincerely held differences between Christians. Those differences should not be celebrated it seems, but crushed. ECUMENISM for me means being able to go along to my wife's church and worship with Christians whose beliefs sometimes differ from my own. If these differences can, in time, be overcome, all the better. For many liberals, however, ecumenism means bulldozing aside those differences right now, as though they don't matter a jot to anyone. Well, they matter to some people and they should be respected for that and not pilloried at every hand's turn. 
