christianity
{ ALAN PHILPS in Jerusalem and JOHN HISCOCK in Los Angeles 
    January 04 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/cult-held-over-plan-for-end-of-the-world-shoot-out-26161546.html }
EIGHT MEMBERS of an American doomsday cult were arrested in Jerusalem last night suspected of planning a shoot-out with Israeli police which, they believed, would hasten the end of the world and take them to heaven. According to police, the cultists, who had six children with them, planned ``extremists acts'' on the streets of Jerusalem in the final days of 1999 to hasten the second coming of the Messiah. A police source said the cult members believed that being killed by police ``would lead them to heaven and start the process of bringing Jesus back to life''. Violence was planned for Jerusalem's Old City, possibly the Temple Mount, site of the Jewish temple destroyed in AD 70 and now occupied by the Muslim shrine of the Dome of the Rock and the Al-Aqsa mosque. The group is an advance guard of 78 members of the Concerned Christians cult who sold their property and disappeared from Denver, Colorado, last October and were believed to be heading to Jerusalem. Their leader, Monte Kim Miller, has prophesied that he would die in the final hours of the century and be resurrected three days later. His hold on his followers is so strong that they are thought to be willing to commit mass suicide at his order. The three families were living in the smart Jerusalem suburbs of Mevasseret Zion and Moza and gave up without a struggle. Neighbours even paid credit to how quiet and well-mannered they appeared. Miller was understood to be abroad. ``The arrests were carried out to protect certain sections of the Israeli population and members of the cult themselves who blindly follow a leader who is now overseas,'' said a police statement. The raid was led by the Jerusalem police chief, Yitzhak Yairi an indication of how seriously the authorities are taking the prospect of disturbances during the Millennium celebrations by unbalanced or temporarily deranged Christians. The authorities plan to deport the group, but they will appear in court first. Miller, a former marketing manager, founded Concerned Christians in the 1980s to fight what he saw as an anti-Christian bias in the media and a perceived threat to Christianity posed by the burgeoning New Age movement. Over the years, critics say, Concerned Christians became an apocalyptic personality cult with Miller's preaching developing an anti-Semitic and anti-American twist. Worries about the cult increased in 1997 when a 17-year-old Denver girl testified that her mother said she would kill her, if ordered to by Miller. ``My mother told me in August 1996 that we have only 40 months left on Earth,'' Nicolette Weaver said in a affidavit. Miller and his followers disappeared shortly after his prophecy that the Apocalypse would begin with an earthquake in Denver last October did not materialise. Bill Honsberger, a Christian missionary who has studied the cult, said at the time that if Miller's predictions failed to come true, his divine edicts could turn violent. ``If it looks like things are not going to happen according to his prophecy timetable I think his ego would demand that he be seen as a prophet par excellence and he would not in any way mind dying if his prophetic role in the universe was intact,'' he said. ``Because his followers believe he is God they might also be willing to die if ordered to do so by him.'' It is likely that, since none of the cult members are thought to be Israeli citizens, they will simply be expelled from the country rather than subjected to a lengthy criminal trial. A number of other extreme Millennial cults are also thought to see Jerusalem as central to their beliefs.  (The Daily Telegraph, London) 
