christianity
{ MARCUS TANNER 
    May 07 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/blasphemy-protest-bishop-kills-himself-26186272.html }
A CATHOLIC bishop in Pakistan has shot himself dead, in protest against the death sentence pronounced on a Christian for allegedly defaming Mohammed and praising the author Salman Rushdie. Bishop John Joseph (67), took his own life after leading a procession to the court of Sahiwal town in the Punjab, where Ayub Masih, a Catholic, was given the death sentence. Masih (25), was sentenced under laws introduced several years ago by the country's former President, General Zia, and which outlaw remarks offensive to the majority Muslim faith. Several Christians have been since charged under the law, but they all escaped the country. Masih's crimes included speaking favourably of the author of the Satanic Verses, still under a death penalty by Iranian religious leaders for allegedly making blasphemous comments about the Prophet in the book. Joseph, bishop of Faisalabad near Lahore, since 1981, had already publicly opposed the blasphemy laws and was said to have been distraught over the latest verdict, which he thought confirmed his worst suspicions about the law. Firstly, it was simply the word of one Muslim against one Christian, in which the former was given priority, Secondly, he feared the motive was merely a venal plot by local Muslims to drive Masih and other Christians off their land. Last month, after the verdict was delivered, the bishop warned he was preparing to make an ``astonishing'' protest. Yesterday he returned to the court building accompanied by another priest, whom he told to wait outside. The bishop went in and, in a dark corridor, shot himself. The bishop's bizarre death has shocked not only Pakistan's 2 million or so Christians, who make up only a tiny proportion of Pakistan's 135 million population, but the country's human rights groups as well. In a letter to a newspaper yesterday, the bishops urged Muslims, as well as his fellow Christians and minority faiths to protest against the blasphemy laws. In Rome, Asian bishops gathered for a synod honoured their dead colleague with a period of silence.  Independent News Service 
