christianity
{  
    April 06 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/kohl-calls-in-advertising-gurus-to-halt-slide-in-polls-26189321.html }
ADVERTISING men have been called in to find ways of repackaging Helmut Kohl, the German Chancellor, whose Christian Democratic Party lags 12 pc behind the opposition Social Democrats. The election campaign is about to enter its critical phase - the final party congresses are in April and May - and the Social Democrats, under the newly-minted Chancellor candidate, Gerhard Schroder, are looking cocky. The party headquarters of the Christian Democrats - a tall office block next to the British Embassy - face the brown barracks of the Social Democrats, and so the most direct form of election contest is fought by provocative posters across a busy Bonn street. The latest Social Democratic invention is a series of adapted film posters, depicting Herr Kohl as a faded film star. One, playing on the classic film Gone With the Wind (rendered in the poster as Abandoned by the Voters), depicts an open-shirted Herr Kohl clutching his Finance Minister, Theo Waigel, in the role of Scarlett O'Hara. Germans are not accustomed to cheekiness in politics, and the poster campaign suggests that Social Democrats are becoming increasingly confident of victory. The latest opinion polling underlines the point. The polling organisation Infratest yesterday showed that the Social Democrats have 46pc of popular support, Christian Democrats and the Bavarian Christian Social Union together have 34pc. The Greens, a possible partner for the Social Democrats, have slipped to 6 per cent. The Free Democrats, Herr Kohl's junior partners, will be lucky to make 5pc. The choice of Herr Schroder as challenger to Herr Kohl has allowed the Social Democrats to pull well ahead. Their weak point is the Green Party, still embedded in anti-Nato sentiment and vote-killing schemes to treble the price of petrol. Herr Kohl and his supporters have targeted the Greens as a way of chipping away the credibility of the Social Democrats. It has not worked. And so the ad men have been called in. The Christian Democratic ad agency remains that of Coordt von Manstein. At the last general election, in 1994, it helped to produce slogans such as `Vote CDU - so that things can get even better.' With unemployment at record highs, this lacks authority. `Pensions are secure,' was another favourite four years ago. That, too, has had to go: focus groups no longer believe it. Other agencies have been throwing their ideas into the hat. Most agree that the Christian Democrats have got to stick with Herr Kohl because he is the closest the party has to a brand name. ``The point is to make that brand brighter to the New Centre,'' says one campaign adviser. Political analysts believe that the most dynamic section of the electorate are well-educated, success-oriented professionals.  (* The Times, London) 
