christianity
{ By ALAN PHILPS 
    May 28 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/christian-gunned-down-26118920.html }
A MUSLIM guerrilla gunned down a Christian man yesterday and Israeli border soldiers wounded three people in growing tensions underlining the... A MUSLIM guerrilla gunned down a Christian man yesterday and Israeli border soldiers wounded three people in growing tensions underlining the fragility of security conditions in the newly liberated Lebanese territory. Also Sunday, two girls were killed and their father wounded when their vehicle drove over a land mine on a side road in the south, police said. Another man was wounded when a mine exploded as his bulldozer was clearing a road. Earlier, in the first fatality since Shi'ite Muslim guerrillas took over southern Lebanon on Wednesday after Israel's withdrawal, a guerrilla shot and killed a 50-year-old Christian man and wounded another Christian in Rmaish village, a former stronghold of the now-defunct Israeli-backed South Lebanon Army militia. The circumstances of the shooting were not clear. Villagers said the dead man was related to a member of the now-defunct Israeli-backed South Lebanon Army militia and that gunmen were out to exact revenge. But other reports said the gunman was mobbed by a crowd and opened fire. Police, in a terse statement, said the suspect was apprehended, describing the shooting as an ``individual incident''. Hizbollah denied involvement. Three youths were hurt when Israeli troops opened fire with rubber-coated bullets at a noisy crowd which strayed over the border at the now-closed crossing point between Metullah and the Lebanese village of Kfar Killa, according to reports from Lebanon. A spokesman for Israel's northern command said that protesters had tried to cross the ill-defended border in several places, and had broken it down at two points. ``They are trying to provoke us, but we will not be led by them.'' The spokesman said the youths appeared to be following orders from Hizbollah or Amal. These Shi'ite Muslim organisations now control southern Lebanon.In the mainly-Christian village of Qlaaia, Sunday mass at the Maronite church of St George was cancelled for the first time in 100 years in protest at lack of security. But after a visit by two senior Hizbollah figures who reassured the population that they would not be harmed by the guerrillas, the local priest, Fr Mansour Hkayim, agreed to toll the bell and summon the faithful. Earlier, the priest said that he could not ask people to leave their homes empty and come to church while the streets were unsafe. Given the number of guns, and Shi'ite Muslims' hatred of the Israelis and their local allies, the relative calm in the area has been a surprise to many. Terje Roed-Larsen, the United Nations envoy, said earlier that he was satisfied with the progress in delineating the border and confirming Israel's withdrawal. But he appealed for the ``full and unconditional support of all parties concerned''. (* The Times, London) and agencies 
