christianity
{  
    March 13 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/mea-culpas-echo-down-centuries-26121899.html }
By BRUCE JOHNSTON    In the central part of Sunday's papal request for pardon for past Church errors, the Pope was joined by five cardinals and... In the central part of Sunday's papal request for pardon for past Church errors, the Pope was joined by five cardinals and two monsignori, each of whom read out a confession relating to one of the seven ``sins''. To each, the Pope replied with an undertaking which he assumed in the name of the entire Church that such errors would never again be committed.  SIN IN GENERAL Cardinal Bernardin Gantin, Deacon of the College of Cardinals, and one of the great supporters of the Pope's mea culpa, opened with a prayer concerning sin in general, and the need to purify one's memory and undertake to embark on the road to conversion.  WRONGS IN SERVICE OF FAITH The Pope's doctrinal watchdog, the Bavarian-born Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (the Vatican department successor to the Inquisition), confessed the wrongs committed in the ``service of faith''. When the Crusaders captured Jerusalem in 1099, they put 70,000 Muslims to the sword in a massacre that lasted three days. There were so many bodies that an epidemic broke out. They burned Jews alive in their synagogue. After these triumphs, the Christian Crusaders moved in solemn procession to the Holy Sepulchre and, in the words of Gibbon, ``covered the tomb in tears of joy''. After the final re-conquest of Spain from the Moors, all Jews and Muslims were required to become Christians or be expelled from the peninsula. Later in the 15th and 16th centuries, many were tried and executed by the Inquisition on the suspicion that their conversions were not sincere.  AGAINST CHRISTIAN UNITY Cardinal Roger Etchegaray, President for the Committee for the (Millennium) Jubilee, confessed the sin of ``compromising the unity of Christ''. This includes excommunications, persecutions and causing divisions in Christianity. In 1204, when the Latins captured Constantinople, they pillaged the Greek Orthodox churches, including Sancta Sophia, trampled underfoot the sacred vessels of the altar and seated a prostitute on the throne of the Orthodox Patriarch of Constantinople. During the Second World War, the Catholic Croat Ustashi, in league with the Germans and Italians, persecuted the Greek Orthodox Serbs. Their slogan was ``Convert a third, expel a third, kill a third''. Up to 300,000 Serbs may have been murdered. The Edict of Nantes, signed in 1598 by Henry IV of France, granted toleration to French Protestants. It was suddenly revoked on Oct 18 1685 by Louis XIV, acting under the influence of the Jesuits. Thousands of men, women and children were murdered, and thousands of others fled abroad.  AGAINST THE JEWS Australian- born Cardinal Edward Cassidy, President of the Pontifical Council for the Promotion of Unity of Christians, confessed the wrongs committed ``in connection with relations with the people of the first Covenant, Israel'', including contempt, acts of hostility, and silence. In the old Good Friday liturgy there used to be a prayer ``pro perfidiis Judaeis'' in which the congregation asked that God would remove ``the blindness of that people'' because God's mercy is not removed ``even from the perfidious Jews.'' The congregation were not asked to kneel during this prayer, because in ancient times they simply refused to do so. The liturgy was changed by Pope John XXIII to a prayer for ``our brothers and sisters the Jews''.  WRONGS AGAINST RESPECT FOR LOVE, PEACE, CULTURES Mgr Stephen Fumio Hamao, President of the Pontifical Pastoral Council for Migrants and Itinerants, confessed to wrongs committed against immigrants, gypsies and the weak. Early Christians scandalised the Romans by asserting that their ancient and revered gods were actually devils, fallen angels who had come on earth to lead people to Hell. Although Christianity began as a Jewish religion, the Christianised Jews were soon forbidden to practise circumcision, and were more or less forced to eat pork.  WRONGS AGAINST WOMEN AND MINORITIES Cardinal Francis Arinze, the black president of the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue, confessed ``sins that have injured the dignity of women and the unity of humankind'', while recalling ``too often, women are humiliated and cast into the margins''. St Augustine wrote that nothing drags a good man away from the spiritual life as effectively as a woman, and that a sexual act was without sin only when it was also without desire.  WRONGS AGAINST BASIC HUMAN RIGHTS Mgr Francois Van Thuan, president of the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, and who for years was a prisoner in Vietnam, confessed the sins ``in the field of people's fundamental human rights''. Among them, he mentioned the ``unborn suppressed in the human womb, or even used for experimental ends by many who have abused the possibilities offered by bio-technology, by twisting science''. (Daily Telegraph, London) 
