christianity
{  
    December 24 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/away-with-the-manger-25953309.html }
The hospital crib controversy made the headlines here this week but it's in the halfpenny place compared to political correctness in America and Britain. Gemma O'Doherty reports It was a case of political correctness almost gone mad. The country's hospitals came out en masse this week to reject claims that they had conspired to move their Christmas cribs out of public sight for fear of offending non-Christian patients. After allegations that it had started a trend in secularism for the sick by removing its nativity scene from the public reception area to the chapel, St James's Hospital became the target of national outrage and claims that it was attempting "to neuter" the Christian community's biggest holiday. Scathing complaints filled the airwaves and newspaper mailbags, accusing the country's largest hospital of engaging in "a blatant attempt to take the Christ out of Christmas". In the end, the hospital pooh-poohed the idea that the godless forces of political correctness had played any part in the crib-moving controversy. A spokesman explained that the manger had merely been moved to the foyer for a carol concert before being placed back in the chapel again, its normal place of residence. But that wasn't enough for some people. Why shouldn't the crib be given pride of place in a hospital with a Christian name and a Catholic ethos, they demanded? Was the hospital ashamed of wearing its faith on its sleeve? St James's responded by saying their crib had never been located in the public foyer and that it had no intention of removing it from the chapel. But this week's concerns about political correctness hijacking Christmas are child's play compared to what has become a national obsession on the other side of the Atlantic. In the US, where public authorities went to unprecedented lengths this year in deciding how to decorate main streets, sell gifts and greet people without offending anyone, a growing number of vocal Christians are attacking what they call the war on Christmas. Battle lines were drawn earlier in the month when the First Family sent out greeting cards from the White House without any reference to Christmas. It has been the tradition for almost 15 years that the presidential card would not explicitly mention the C word, reflecting America's constitutional separation of church and state, and deference to other December holidays like Hanukkah. Tomorrow, as Christians around the world celebrate the birth of Jesus, the Jewish faith will also be marking the first night of their most important feast, Hanukkah, which commemorates the end of Greek rule over the Holy Temple in Jerusalem. But Christian groups are up in arms over the exclusion of the word Christmas from the Bush card, especially as the President claims to have a direct line to the Man above. One leading Republican announced that the Christmas tree on the Capitol lawn should from now be called a more-secular holiday tree. Adding fuel to the fire, stores like Wal-Mart and Kmart have instructed employees to say Season's Greetings and Happy Holiday, but not to dare utter the words Merry Christmas in case sensitive non-Christians decide to take their custom elsewhere. At Santa grottos across the US, elves have been renamed holiday helpers. Officials in Maryland became the target of ridicule when the dressing of public buildings in festive wreaths and ribbons was renamed the "Hanging of the Green" instead of the troublesome "Christmas decorations". Some schools have even banned Christmas carols, nativity plays and any depiction of Christmas symbols like trees and tinsel to ensure children of other religions don't feel excluded. In Texas, the traditional red and green colours of Christmas were shunned this year with parents told to bring only white plates and napkins to the "winter break party". Seasonal frosting on cookies has even been classified as antagonistic to those of a non-Christian faith. The schools have justified their actions saying in the past teachers often forced non-Christian children to take part in Christmas activities, sing carols about the Virgin birth, and write essays on "What Christmas Means to Me", a blasphemy to some Moslem and Jewish families. But opponents dismiss their claims. As sales of rubber-bracelets declaring "Just Say Merry Christmas" soar across America, religious conservatives are boycotting retail outlets who insist that shop assistants and advertisements use the expression "Happy Holiday". At least 1,500 Christian lawyers have volunteered to sue any town that tries to keep nativity scenes out of its holiday displays, citing the 1985 US Supreme Court "Reindeer Ruling" which says that cribs are constitutional, if balanced with more secular symbols like Santa Claus to avoid the appearance of state-endorsed religion. Supporters of political correctness say Americans have been saying Happy Holidays for a hundred years at least, and that it merely celebrates the diversity of the country. Closer to home, the festive tide in Britain has turned against secularists who claim Christmas is offensive, with Christian organisations and communities trying to redress the balance. One Church of England diocese is fighting back against the PC approach to Christmas with a new advertising campaign. Posters have been put up across the Midlands with an image of the Infant Jesus wearing a yellow armband with the words "Make Christmas His Story". Local people have been given armbands with the logo, designed to reflect Bob Geldof's Make Poverty History campaign. Earlier this month, an English county council banned the display of posters promoting Christmas services in a public library because they did not want to upset other religions. It transpired that the same library had hosted a party to celebrate the Moslem feast of Eid some time earlier. In offices across England, more than two-thirds of employers have banned Christmas trees and decorations out of respect for minority faiths. The Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams launched a broadside this week against "the silly bureaucrats who want to wipe out Christian symbols from Christmas". He likened the politically correct approach to Christmas to the 17th century Puritans, who felt celebrations were not Christian enough. "It's all because of the idea that our neighbours from other religious traditions will be offended by Christian symbols," he said. "The truth is they're usually much happier with the idea of a Christian festival than with some general excuse to have a good time in midwinter." Here, some took consolation from the level of reaction the crib controversy caused, citing it as proof that the true meaning of Christmas was still alive in Irish society. "Christmas as a religious occasion marking the birth of Jesus is still ingrained in our national psyche," said Fr Donal Roche of the Divine Mercy Parish in Lucan, Dublin. "Even if you only see them once a year, it's amazing to see some people coming through the doors of the church at Christmas who you think wouldn't be bothered. "I think it would be very upsetting if we became like America and the Budweiser ads that say Happy Holiday. I am very happy to celebrate Moslem and Jewish festivals. We lent our parish hall to the local Moslem community recently when they were marking the end of Ramadan. "But as Christians we should be allowed to celebrate our own festivals. In our local school, we have a huge number of nationalities and different religions but they were almost all present at our carol concert this week. Apart from just three or four children who were withdrawn following their parents' wishes, we had Hindus and Moslems singing Christmas carols. That is what the spirit of Christmas is all about." 
