christianity
{ David Quinn 
    April 15 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/david-quinn/francis-seeks-to-avoid-the-errors-of-both-liberals-and-conservatives-34629059.html }
The very first Christians lived in a world that was alien to their values. One way in which it was alien was in its attitude to divorce. Both Jewish society, from which the first Christians emerged, and the Roman society in which Christianity took root, allowed divorce and remarriage. Men in particular could discard an unwanted wife very easily. Christianity took a very strict view. Following the words of Christ, marriage was to be permanent and indissoluble. Some Christians allowed for some exceptions to this rule, but Christianity has never been lenient about divorce.  The early Christians could easily have accommodated themselves and their nascent Church to the mores they saw around them with respect to divorce. They could have concluded that they would make no progress in converting people to Christianity unless they adapted Christ's teaching. But they didn't do this. Instead, they adapted the culture.  This arose from self-confidence. They believed in what they were doing.  The Church today does not have this strong self-confidence. It doubts itself. I am not just referring here to the Catholic Church, but to Christianity more broadly.  Like the early Christians, the Church today finds itself in a society that readily accepts divorce, but unlike those early Christians it has lost faith in its ability to convert society to its view. It doubts this view itself.  It is worried it is losing people because of the growing disconnect between how we live now and what Christianity teaches. Various branches of Christianity have approached this problem in different ways. The liberal Churches have adapted. This goes to the extremes of the Lutherans in Sweden where a senior Lutheran bishop has said he favours abortion rights. Divorce has long since been accepted. This has not brought Swedes back to church. All it has done is drive away the orthodox faithful who have not been replaced. The Catholic Church has taken the view that it must hold fast to what it believes are eternal truths and the teachings handed down by Christ. To do otherwise would be a huge act of infidelity, and even on pragmatic terms would not work given the massive failure of the liberal Protestant approach. Under Pope Francis, the Catholic Church continues to teach what it has always believed to be true on all the important issues. Last week saw the release of a new papal document called 'Amoris Laetitia' ('The Joy of Love'). It is the most important document of his papacy to date. Abortion, in the eyes of the Church, is as categorically wrong as it ever was. About gay marriage, the Pope says: "There are absolutely no grounds for considering homosexual unions to be in any way similar or even remotely analogous to God's plan for marriage and family". Surrogacy is "the exploitation and commercialisation of the female body". Gender ideology denies "the difference and reciprocity in nature of a man and a woman and envisages a society without sexual differences, thereby eliminating the anthropological basis of the family." And so on. So where is the friendly, smiling, accommodating Pope Francis in this? He is still very much there. Pope Francis was never going to change the fundamental teachings of Catholicism. As he has said, 'I am a son of the Church'. What he has an absolute horror of, however, is a type of Christianity that uses the teachings of the Church simply as an opportunity to judge and condemn people.  This is the Christianity that will say to the cohabiting couple, 'I condemn you. Go away until you mend your ways'. Likewise, with the person who is divorced and remarried, or who has had a child outside of marriage. Quite apart from the scandals, it is the harsh and authoritarian presentation of its teachings that has alienated untold numbers of people from the Church. Francis is therefore telling the Church and its pastors to adopt a wholly different approach. The cohabiting couple should not be condemned and sent away. Nor should the person who is divorced and remarried. Nor should the woman who has had a child outside of marriage. Instead the Church should look first for the good in the lives of people. The cohabiting couple, for example, might have a very strong, loving relationship, better than what many married couples have.  There is a key passage in 'Amoris Laetitia' that really sums up his whole pastoral outlook. Referring to "irregular situations", Pope Francis says: "There are two ways of thinking which occur throughout the Church's history: casting off and reinstating. The Church's way, from the time of the Council of Jerusalem [in the first century] has always been the way of Jesus, the way of mercy and reinstatement [in the Church]."  He says: "No one can be condemned forever, because that is not the logic of the Gospel." Here he has in mind in particular the divorced and remarried. But elsewhere he states: "In order to avoid all misunderstanding, I would point out that in no way must the Church desist from proposing the full ideal of marriage, God's plan in all its grandeur."  He says: "A lukewarm attitude, any kind of relativism, or an undue reticence in proposing that ideal, would be a lack of fidelity to the Gospel and also of love on the part of the Church for young people themselves". Within the Church, as in society, conservatives are concerned to uphold certain moral standards, and this can easily harden into the sort of harsh authoritarianism that the Pope rightly condemns. But liberalism easily becomes the opposite error. A liberal pastor who meets a cohabiting couple certainly won't condemn them, but he might very well never encourage them to marry either if they seem happy as they are. He might adopt an 'I'm ok, you're ok' approach. This kind of error is much more prevalent in the Church today, in the West at least, than the opposite error. In fact, any priest who believes Pope Francis has effectively given him permission to play down the Church's teachings on marriage and the family has simply not been listening to what he is really saying.  Pope Francis does not want the Church's teachings to be used as a stick to beat people with, but he does want them to be offered to people in their fullness, and for people to be encouraged, bit by bit if need be, to live them out in their fullness. Anything else betrays what Pope Francis is really driving at. Irish Independent 
