christianity
{ Maeve Sheehan 
    May 07 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/how-the-powerful-bullies-brought-down-an-educator-26207899.html }
ANTOIN DELAP was honoured to be invited by the Christian Brothers to join the board of governors of the Marino Institute of Education. The appeal to the solicitor, who is also a prominent Irish-language enthusiast, wasobvious. The Marino Institute of Education, set up by the Brothers in 1989, comprised educational research and conference centres but its jewel was Colaiste Mhuire, the once-flagging teacher training college that had been transformed into a thriving enterprise that produced 150 graduates a year. Two days before attending his first meeting with the Institute's board of governors, he had an informal briefing with its chairman, Sr Bernadette McMahon. They met in Bewleys Cafe on Grafton Street, Dublin, and over coffee, the nun briefed the solicitor on what would be required. She also mentioned a matter of litigation that involved the president of the Colaiste Mhuire, Caoimhe Mairtin. "I have to say I was taken aback at that. That was like a baptism of fire, being introduced to that kind of scene, two days before your first meeting," he said. But undeterred, Mr Delap went, as appointed, to the board meeting held at a conference room in the Institute. Mr Delap refused to divulge what transpired at the meeting. He did say: "I suppose I can say that divisions certainly manifested themselves. Certainly it was a difficult meeting. "There were differences of opinion more than anything, sharp differences of opinion." Whatever did transpire left Mr Delap so uncomfortable that within a month he resigned. "I was concerned at the situation. I was concerned that I could not really sit on the fence: things were moving at a certain pace and decisions were being taken. I was in a position where I had not fully informed myself and I felt duty-bound to do so. I felt it would be unwise of me to vote on matters that concerned the future or the well-being of senior staff members without being fully briefed. And I also felt that the option of sitting on the fence was not an option. I did not think that circumstances afforded me the time to fully inform myself." Mr Delap must this week feel he made the right choice. Last week, the acrimonious boardroom battle spilled out into the public domain when Caoimhe Mairtin, one of Ireland's leading educationalists, settled her legal action against the Christian Brothers for constructive dismissal, amid ugly allegations of bullying and intimidation. Her ignominious departure, allegedly preceded by what some allege was a planned campaign of bullying, prompted a slew of protests from students and staff who last week took to the streets with placards. Politicians took up the case in the Dail. As they told it, the venerable Christian Brothers-run Institute had allegedly bullied a woman out of her job because she asked questions about the money. Senator Joe O'Toole spoke of 'Svengali-like' figures on the board of governors who steered the Institute towards disastrous litigation. But more sensational were the questions about finances alluded to under privilege in the Houses of the Oireachtas. Finian McGrath, the independent local TD, said, "serious questions arise regarding the use of conference funds and strong evidence is available in this regard". Others questioned whether the Institute used State education grants to purchase four apartments for the college. The Christian Brothers and the Institute have denied all the allegations - bullying,harassment and suggestions of financial impropriety. Speculation that perhaps the whole shebang could be up for sale to pay off debts notched up by a legacy of child-abusing religious was also nonsense, said religious sources. But the damage to the Institute's reputation has been done. Mary Hanafin, the Education Minister, had little option but to call in outside auditors. On Friday, she appointed Price WaterhouseCoopers to scrutinise the Institute's finances, even though the Institute had already announced its own inquiry. For, as with most boardroom battles, this one was also about money. Ms Mairtin came to the Marino Institute of Education in 2000, taking up a post left vacant by her Christian Brother predecessor Donal Leader. Her role was to continue the modernisation of the teacher training college founded by the Christian Brothers 100 years ago. During the 1970s, it had suffered dwindling numbers and funds were sparse. Fewer vocations meant fewer brothers to train and the college broadened out into general teacher-training. In 1989, the Christian Brothers decided to consolidate further. The brothers sold off land to developers, and used the money to found the Marino Institute of Education - including a conference centre, educational research resource and training centre. Colaiste Mhuire became one of the "departments" under the umbrella of 'Brother Rory Geoghegan, the only religious on the staff, staged an "unorthodox protest" that resulted in his "banishment" to Zambia' the Marino Institute. By the time Ms Mairtin took up her post as president of Colaiste Mhuire it was transformed: student numbers too - with the Colaiste's ?4.5m-a-year grant augmented by profits from the conference centre and other activities. Leaked documents showed that last year the Marino Institute had an income of ?7.46m but spent ?6.59m - leaving a generous surplus of ?875,000. But Ms Mairtin was not to know this. Although she was president of Colaiste Mhuire, she had no control over her budget even though her contract stipulated that she was the "accounting officer". Whatever funds it received from the department were controlled centrally by the Marino Institute for Education. The ?4.5m budget for Colaiste Mhuire was deposited into the Marino Institute of Education's single bank account, along with whatever other income it received from other activities. The trouble started in November 2003 when Ms Mairtin tried to wrest back financial control of the funds. Ms Mairtin discovered that the Colaiste did not - as required under its own rules - have its own bank account. Not only that but the Institute dipped into that bank account to spend ?1.2m on four apartments in Griffith Hall in 2002. The apartments were to be used for staff and visitors but Ms Mairtin wanted to be sure that none of the Department of Education money intended for her Colaiste was used to purchase them. She began asking questions of the board of governors, a powerful collective drawn from various strands of educational and business life. They included the four Christian Brothers who are trustees of the Institute but amongst its most prominent members was Dermod Dwyer, an influential Harvard-educated businessman with property interests and an association with Treasury Holdings, one of Ireland's most successful property developmentcompanies. Apart from property expertise, he also has a genuine interest in education, according to a spokesman. His wife was the first lay principal in a Dominican school in Wexford; his daughter, a former student of the year and graduate of the college. Senator Joe O'Toole said last week: "She [Ms Mairtin] was actually the accounting officer: that was in her contract. She obviously set about her job and she found that, in terms of personnel, her official list of personnel was different from her actual personnel. Obviously that raised financial questions immediately. She also found that instead of there being a separate account for the Colaiste, that in fact there was only one account for everybody and she couldn't track the money that she was supposed to beanswerable for. "So she was trying to follow this up and in the middle of all this she finds that out of this same account, there were four apartments bought. So she was asking the question what money was used for this, how can we distinguish (what money) and why don't we have an account? Once that started happening, they started clamping down on her." This is where, according to Senator O'Toole and othersin the college, the campaign of bullying and harassment started. Senator O'Toole, a former head of the Irish National Teachers Organisation, alleged this weekend: "These were men of some presence who thought nothing of leaning across a table, and staring at her, shouting at her, throwing things down on the desk and walking behind her at a meeting, creating an atmosphere of intimidation." In support of his claim, he produced an email dated May 27 last year, referring to the phrase "softly softly catchy monkey". Senator O'Toole told the Senate: "It was sent by this man, Dermod Dwyer, and this makes it clear that there was a planned campaign of harassment, bullying and intimidation to force the resignation of a fantastic educator and leader. This attitude of getting rid of people who are in the way is not acceptable." Mr Dwyer has a track record in plain-speaking - he likened the Irish Financial Services Centre to "something out of a German prison camp" - but he has strenuously denied the insinuation in Senator O'Toole's reading of the email. And a Christian Brothers source who read the email said it contained no reference to Caoimhe Mairtin. Then early last year, the board of governors began a "structural review" of the Marino Institute of Education and its various arms. External consultants were brought in to facilitate the process, and staff were interviewed. When it ended, the Christian Brothers were presented with a number of options: split up the various enterprises and give them their own boards of governors or bring the whole operation under the control of the Institute, which was already, effectively, the case. They opted for the latter. Caoimhe Mairtin's function as accounting officer for Colaiste Mhuire became effectively redundant. That summer, Ms Mairtin's complaints of bullying and harassment allegedly fell on deaf ears: she complained to the Christian Brothers in writing. She also complained to the Department of Education, which regarded it as an internal management problem. Other staff also complained about the sour relations at the Institute. Brother Rory Geoghegan, a Christian Brother for 40 years and the only religious on the teaching staff, staged an "unorthodox protest" that resulted in his being "banished" to Zambia. Brother Geogeghan declined to state the nature of the protest but said this weekend: "I protested in an unorthodox fashion, because no orthodox means or process was in any way effective. "They would maintain that I went over the top. So they decided to punish me. The effect was immediate. That very day I was called to appear at a Congregational at Provincial Headquarters the next morning in York Road, Dun Laoghaire." Brother Geoghegan said he was pressurised into leaving for Zambia on April 6. The Christian Brothers dispute his version of events. By November, relations were irretrievable. Ms Mairtin had begun legal action. The board of governors referred Ms Mairtin's case to a legal sub-committee, and the board members were asked to vote on its recommendations of what action shouldbe taken against the college president, sources said. When Ms Mairtin settled her case last Friday week, walking away from the college with an estimated ?300,000 confidential settlement, she told friends it was the lowest day of her professional career. Since the outpouring of support from her former students and staff, she feels vindicated. Even though she has declined to give interviews, Ms Mairtin's version of the story has been told by others. A succession of leaked emails have supported her version of events: RTE reported that board members of the Institute were asked to destroy a sensitive memo outlining concerns that the purchase of the four apartments at Griffith Hall complex could be scrutinised by the Department of Education and/or the Comptroller and Auditor General. Another email, dated April last year, stated that because the Institute had one bank account for all departments, "it is not possible to state categorically the source of funds used for any particular payment". Nevertheless, in response to questions last week, the Christian Brothers said that no State funds were spent on the purchase of the apartments. The Christian Brothers and the Marino Institute may survive the claims of financial impropriety - which they say are groundless. It will be the allegations of bullying that will stick. 
