christianity
{  
    July 15 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-our-search-for-spirituality-no-longer-always-leads-to-the-church-25975700.html }
A report this week revealed a rapid growth in faiths other than Catholicism - and of people who don't believe in God at all. Religious & Social Affairs Correspondent David Quinn reports The last Sunday of each July is Reek Sunday, when thousands of people make the arduous climb up Ireland's holiest mountain, Croagh Patrick, named after the island's patron saint who spent 40 days and nights at the summit thanking God for the conversion of the Irish people From that time to this, the mountain is climbed each year as an act of faith, and to ask forgiveness for sins. This coming Reek Sunday, thousands will make the climb once more, but why will they do so? Will it necessarily be an act of faith? Certainly the faithful will be there, but they will mingle with a growing number who do it simply because it is a tradition, or because it is a day out, or to test their fitness. There is even a small group who make the climb out of loyalty to a much older tradition than Christianity, who harken back to the days of the druids, when the old gods of the Celts were still worshipped. In any case, the number of people who climb Croagh Patrick annually is in decline. This year marks the centenary of the building of an oratory on the summit, but the celebrations are being overshadowed by a dramatic 30pc drop in walking tourism in the area and that is affecting the mountain. Croagh Patrick is as good a symbol as any of the decline of organised religion in Ireland. It is also a good symbol of the changing face of religion here, for while the number of committed Christians in the country is certainly in decline, it cannot be said with as much certainty that religion itself is in such rapid decline. Instead, Ireland is becoming religiously more pluralistic with an ever-growing smorgasbord of faith on offer to us. It's a bit like the pilgrims who climb that holy mountain every year. Once we could have said that they were all of one faith and climbed it for one reason. Now we can't be so sure. This growing diversity is borne out by the Census of 2002 which showed that while Ireland remains overwhelmingly Catholic - nominally at least - both the variety of other faiths, and the numbers adhering to them, is also growing rapidly. Much of this is fuelled by immigration, but some of it is fuelled by Catholics seeking alternatives to their own Church. For example, for the first time since the foundation of the State, the number of members of the Church of Ireland has shown an increase to 115,611 in 2002, up from 89,187 in 1991. The number of Presbyterians has also shown a healthy increase, up from 13,199 in 1991 to 20,582 in 2002. But it is the numbers adhering to non-Christian faiths, or to no explicit faith at all, that shows the biggest increase. In 1991, just 38,743 belonged either to small Christian sects, or to a non-Christian religion. That has now more than doubled to just under 90,000. Twenty thousand of these are Muslims. The number professing no religion at all has shown an even bigger increase. This now stands at 138,284, up from 66,270 in 1991, and from a miniscule 7,616 just 20 years before that. This finding more or less squares with those of a new Eurobarometer survey released this week. According to this survey, the number of Irish people who say they believe in God now stands at 73pc, which means that, on the face of it, we are now less religious than the people of Malta, Cyprus, Greece, Poland, Portugal and Italy, all countries that are either Catholic or Eastern Orthodox in faith. Maybe we're becoming more like the British, which is to say, more secular. There's certainly plenty of evidence of that. Although almost 3,500,000 people still describe themselves as 'Catholic', of these only about 40pc or 50pc go to Mass each week. Many of the rest are at best only nominally Catholic, showing up to church only for weddings, baptisms, funerals and the like, and maybe for Christmas or Easter. Certainly, many reject the Church's teachings across a whole range of issues, especially those relating to sex. Cormac O'Connell, for one, agrees we are becoming much more secular. A member of the Humanist Association of Ireland, which rejects all religious belief systems, he sees the trend towards secularism as a long-term historical one that has its roots back even before the famine. "The Church in Ireland was actually quite weak before the famine; but as a result of that event, people were troubled and turned to organised religion," he says. "This mingled with nationalism and gave an injection of strength to the Church that lasted over a century." He believes that strength is now dissipating again, a trend accelerated by the sex abuse scandals. However, what is also clear from the census figures is that the choice before Irish people is not a simple one of either the Catholic Church or secularism. For example, there are plenty of Christian alternatives to Catholicism and some Catholics are opting for them. In the past 25 years alone, the numbers joining the various evangelical Christian churches in the Dublin area has grown more than ten-fold from roughly 1,200 to 13,000. That's still small, but if the current trend continues, in another 30 or 40 years evangelicals could be a force in Irish life. Sean Mullan of the Evangelical Alliance Ireland says that while part of this growth is being fuelled by immigration, a recent survey of evangelicals conducted by the Alliance shows that 78pc of them are Irish-born. He concludes that most of the increase in membership has come from lapsed Catholics. Mullan says: "The vast majority were Catholics who moved away from their Church. However, they kept an interest in spiritual matters. This often led them to coming into contact with friends or colleagues who might be involved in an evangelical group." He defines evangelical Christianity, which has overtones of American religious extremism - an image he is keen to dispel - as comprising "Christians who are committed to a belief in the power of Jesus and his message to transform people's lives, to the need to share that message with others, and to the Bible as our final authority". He believes these emphases also explain why evangelicalism is on the increase, while the more traditional Churches are in decline. Mullan states that while evangelicals focus on a person, namely Jesus, and a message, the traditional churches seem to stress an institution - namely themselves. Whether this is true or not, it is certainly a widespread perception. Spiritual writer and lecturer, Fr Pat Collins, a Vincentian, thinks religion is becoming much more individualistic, with the result that the organised, corporate forms of religion such as Catholicism are suffering. "People are moving away from the traditional churches because they are perceived as too dogmatic and moralistic. They put too much emphasis on religious beliefs rather than on the religious experience. But people today are much more interested in the latter. They are often seeking religious experiences, and the Catholic Church has to become better at meeting that need." Fr Collins also believes a more individualistic type of religion suits modern, liberal, free-market democracies where personal choice is strongly emphasised. He thinks the turn towards more individualistic forms of religion, as well as the search for religious experiences, explains the huge rise in popularity of 'New Age', or alternative forms of spirituality. He explains that the New Age is a sort of catch-all term for a host of seemingly disconnected beliefs and practices that in fact have some elements in common. "They are based on the idea that the universe is energy and we are made up of energy and we can draw on that energy in various ways to good effect," he says. "All the New-Age practices and therapies are based on achieving this." He adds that many Christians, when you talk to them about their beliefs, actually turn out to have more in common with the New Age than with orthodox versions of Christianity. And certainly there are a huge and bewildering array of New Age and alternatives therapies now available to people throughout the country. These range from fairly mainstream ones such as yoga; to aromatherapy, angel therapy, psychic workshops, integrated energy therapy, holotropic breathwork, reiki etc. John Doherty runs workshops aimed specifically at men that promise to "honour a more mature male energy that is both dynamic and soft, direct and receptive". He doesn't like terms like New Age or alternative spiritualities. "What are they an alternative to?", he asks. He prefers "modern spiritualities". John says he offers people "a space to reflect and slow down. I offer meditation and contemplation so that people can acknowledge the sacred in their lives." He thinks courses such as the one he offers are popular because "people want more than the material. One day, a person wakes up and discovers the house and car alone won't make you happy." He believes people are not turning to the churches in general to meet their spiritual needs because "the traditional rituals are no longer relevant to them", instead they're seeking something new and different. Psychiatrist Patricia Casey agrees many people are now turning to new forms of spirituality for succour. She thinks the distinction often made between 'spirituality' and 'religion' helps explain what is happening to people's belief systems in Ireland. "People now tend to describe themselves as spiritual rather than religious. They think religion is all about rules and regulations. They think spirituality allows them to look to something greater than themselves, but without the challenging moral requirements of religion. So they feel spirituality gives them the benefits of religion without the perceived downside." Prof Casey doesn't find it surprising that many Irish people, instead of abandoning religion altogether, are turning instead to other religious, or quasi-religious, belief systems - even if they are vague in character. "Everyone seeks some kind of greater meaning and purpose in their lives. A lack of religion can take away hope and a sense of meaning other than the here and now. When the here and now gets difficult, they can look to suicide or drugs or alcohol." Last year, the number of people in Ireland who committed suicide was 457, and the big increase in drug and alcohol abuse is well documented. She says there is now "a huge body of research showing the emotional and physical benefits of religion. Religious belief leads to a greater sense of well-being and optimism and this improves both physical and psychiatric health." Even humanist Cormac O'Connell agrees religion has "a social and psychological function", and that a sense of meaning is vital in a person's life. However, he believes it is possible to find meaning without having to resort to religion. He also worries that as Christianity declines, it is being replaced by "superstition". His belief is backed by the Eurobarometer survey. It found that although fewer people believe in God, more than half believe in lucky numbers. The survey also shows that while 27pc reject belief in God, only 4pc of us don't believe in God, or a life-force, or a greater spirit of some kind. In other words, almost everyone in Ireland has a religious belief of some sort - even if it isn't Christian. Fr Pat Collins believes that few people ever completely cut their ties with religion. He refers to the huge numbers who don't practise their faith on a weekly basis but nonetheless insist on getting married in a church, having their children baptised, and who put them forward for First Holy Communion and Confirmation and then want to have a Christian burial for themselves. Cormac O'Connell says this shows how much people want the major events in their lives to be marked by a significant ceremony. To this end, his Humanist Association offers ceremonies designed for people with no religious beliefs. He admits, however, that only "dozens" have so far opted for them - although the Central Statistics Office recently released figures showing that in 2002, 3,683 people got married in a civil ceremony. Significantly, many of these had been previously divorced and so could not get married in church. Had the option been available to them, what would they have done? Reflecting on the variety of beliefs that now exist in Ireland, both Pat Collins and Cormac O'Connell refer to a famous quote attributed to the British writer and wit, G K Chesterton: "When men stop believing in God, they don't believe in nothing, they believe in anything." It seems that something of this sort is now happening in Ireland. Obviously the Catholic Church and Christianity are still easily the dominant forms of religion in Ireland and will remain so indefinitely. Nonetheless, they have declined; and in their place is not a void but a whole variety of new and surprising beliefs. Perhaps the Irish aren't becoming any less religious than they've always been. It's just that a growing number of us are now trying out new ways of being religious. The number of persons recorded as Catholic increased by 234,300 (7.3%), from 3,228,300 in 1991 to 3,462,600 in 2002, according to the last Census. However, as a percentage of the population this figure was 88.4%, a fall from 91.6% in 1991. The number of Muslim and Orthodox adherents increased significantly between the censuses of 1991 and 2002 - the former more than quadrupling to 19,000 and the latter increasing from less than 400 adherents in 1991 to over 10,000 in 2002. Immigration had a major impact on the increases observed, with non-Irish nationals making up 70% of the Muslims and more than 85% of those of the Orthodox faith. The Protestant churches also saw a rise in numbers for the first time in the history of the State but another startling figure was the number of people with no professed religion, which rose from 66,000 in 1991 to 138,000 in 2002. 
