christianity
{ RICHARD SPENCER 
    May 11 2009 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/middle-east/christians-in-middle-east-need-courage-says-pope-26535107.html }
The Pope celebrated Mass with tens of thousands of worshippers from the dwindling Christian churches of the Middle East yesterday, urging them to maintain their presence in the region. During the service in a sports stadium in the Jordanian capital Amman, Benedict XVI made a special point of meeting representatives of the Iraqi Christian community, much of which has fled into exile since the 2003 invasion. He also spoke of the challenges faced by Christian churches in the region. While Christians play an accepted role in several countries, such as Jordan, their presence is shrinking fast due to emigration and lower birth rates. "The strong Christian families of these lands are a great legacy handed down from earlier generations," the Pope told 30,000 pilgrims. "May the courage of Christ our shepherd inspire and sustain you in your efforts to maintain the Church's presence in the changing social fabric of these ancient lands." Christians make up less than 3pc of Jordan's population of between six and seven million, which has been swelled by up to a million Iraqis.  Refugees Among the refugees are believed to be 40,000 Iraqi Christians, mainly Chaldean Catholics. "There is a war on Christians in Iraq," said Dina Nasef, who fled with her family and whose daughter was receiving her First Communion yesterday. "Men put a gun to my head and a gun to my husband's head, there was no reason why. But it is not safe for Christians." Maryam Ibrahim (26), an ophthalmologist, said she left the day after she escaped from an attempted kidnap while on her way home from the hospital where she worked. "They grabbed my clothes and tore the cross off my neck and threw it on the ground," she said. "My driver, a Muslim, tried to protect me but was shot in the head." Just at that moment, though, an American patrol drove past and scared her attackers away. Many Iraqi Christians are seeking refuge in America or Europe, where they are joining established communities of Christian Arabs whose generally higher levels of education and western orientation have for decades made emigration an attractive option. Other Christian leaders present yesterday included Greek Orthodox, Melkites, Egyptian Copts, and Maronites, as well as Catholic groups who arrived by the busload from across Syria and Lebanon as well as Jordan itself. The Pope appealed to them to "build bridges" with other religions and cultures, and said they had a special responsibility to bear witness to "respect for women". (© Daily Telegraph, London) Analysis 
