christianity
{ Neil Tweedie on Pitcairn Island 
    October 25 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/eerie-island-on-the-dark-side-of-a-two-faced-pacific-moon-25894681.html }
THOSE seeking instruction in the ways of the surreal, isolated little world that is Pitcairn could do worse than start with the tale of the tractors. The island boasts two of them: a new, red four-wheel-drive one, and an old, battered blue one; and, for reasons logical only on Pitcairn, they require different driving licences. An island resident by the name of Simon Young, who held a licence for the blue tractor, wanted permission to use the more prestigious red one. The island council, which decides such things, discussed the matter and concluded that it might at some moment in the future acquiesce. But no date was fixed and the matter was quietly dropped. To this day, he is allowed to drive only the blue tractor. The reason is not hard to find: Mr Young is an outsider, an Englishman who came to live on the lonely Pacific island with his wife, Shirley. Outsiders tend not to thrive on Pitcairn. Issues like tractor driving are matters of supreme importance in the micro political landscape of this strange, often childish place. The right, rather than ability, to perform a particular job is an important factor in the index of power. Positions such as coxswain of one of the island's two longboats are guarded jealously and remain in the hands of a few, often passed down through families. "If you are an outsider, the islanders will be as nice as pie until they realise you are staying. Then it all changes. Then, you are a threat," said Lupton Christian, a Yorkshireman who moved to Pitcairn six years ago after retiring as a retail manager. Married to the island's local police officer, Brenda Christian, he remembers another couple, from Germany, who suddenly packed up and grabbed the chance to leave on a passing merchant ship after enduring months of snide remarks. It might all be so comical, so trivial, so Ruritanian, if it were not for the dark side, the very dark side, of Pitcairn. Now it is known that there was another way in which power was defined: by the right of the strongest men in an isolated, virtually un-policed community, nominally espousing British values, to take girls aged 10 or younger and rape or sexually abuse them at will. The men called it "breaking in" - a brutal, life-destroying form of sexual initiation, never to be forgotten by the women subjected to it. The four main families on Pitcairn - the Christians, Warrens, Browns and Youngs - were all intimately entwined in the crimes, supplying offenders and/or victims. There was incest also. Not once did a father threaten a man for touching his daughter; not once did a mother plead for help from the authorities. The community, one of the most isolated in the world, has traditionally depended for its survival upon turning the other cheek. Confrontation, certainly of the public variety, almost never occurs on Pitcairn, backstabbing and fantastical smears being the preferred method of retribution. Not for nothing did one outsider of long experience describe its inhabitants as the most two-faced people on Earth. It was not until 1996 that Britain finally began to take an interest in the sinister events taking place on its last possession in the Pacific. Pitcairn is the Bounty island, the refuge of Fletcher Christian and eight mutineers from that unhappy ship. Most islanders claim mutineer lineage, some with more justification than others. When the cruise ships carrying affluent and ageing American tourists call, the curios and smiles come out. Pitcairn puts on its welcoming face as money ($100 plus for a carving of the Bounty) changes hands. The tourists are usually imbued with the Pitcairn myth by the time they arrive: the evil Captain Bligh, the noble Christian, his landing on the island in 1790 and the community so founded. Then there are his hardy descendants, still battling the might of the fickle ocean in the longboats vital for the transfer of people and goods from ships lying offshore to the harbourless isle. Pitcairn islanders sell themselves as a people to be revered in an era when isolation and true adventure are increasingly precious commodities. The truth, however, is much more prosaic, and unsavoury. The 1996 incident involved the daughter of an outsider posted to the island. On returning to Australia he filed a complaint about Shawn Christian, the son of Steve Christian, the most influential man on the island. Shawn was accused of carrying on a sexual relationship with the complainant's young daughter. At the time, Pitcairn had no police force worthy of the name its sole officer being an islander trained only to the most basic level. The Foreign Office asked the Association of Chief Police Officers for help and Kent Constabulary accepted the job. Officers visited the island and Christian was given a caution. Matters might have rested there, but on the advice of the Kent officers it was decided that an officer from their force should be stationed on the island temporarily to improve policing. It was during her second visit to Pitcairn in 1999 that Pc Gail Cox heard of an island girl being raped by two youths. One of them was Shawn's brother, Randy. More stories began to surface of girls being raped or assaulted in their youth. Detectives from Kent were again called in and began contacting women living in New Zealand, Australia and on Norfolk Island, a place of settlement for many Pitcairn islanders when their home was twice abandoned in the 19th century. Faced with the possibility of a criminal trial, the Foreign Office dusted off the dormant Pitcairn judicial system; and New Zealand, which has long enjoyed strong links with the island, agreed to provide judges and prosecutors appointed to the grandly titled Supreme Court of Pitcairn. As the British detectives criss-crossed the Pacific, the family interweaving that characterises child abuse on Pitcairn soon became apparent. The abuse was nothing new. Most likely, it had always been a part of Pitcairn life, a legacy of the community's murderous early years when men, English and Polynesian, fought to the death over the scarce supply of Polynesian women. The Kent officers decided to interview all girls who had lived on the island aged 10 to 16 during the past 20 years. There were 15. Butmore names emerged. Allegations were levelled against 31 men from three generations. A similar number of women eventually alleged rape or sexual assault. In the end, only nine agreed to testify. Pitcairn may be small but its reach is long. Women, many of them married with families and living as far away as Britain, the United States, Australia and New Zealand, were pressed by relatives on and off the island not to co-operate in a process that might end in the destruction of the community. But there remained enough witnesses to charge 13 men, seven of whom were resident on Pitcairn. The other six were due to be tried in New Zealand next year, but charges against two are likely to be dropped. The British Government, which had hoped to stage the trials in New Zealand, was forced to spend almost Stg£4m holding them on Pitcairn following a legal ruling. A prison also had to be imported, some of it built by the men it was designed to house. The two island men facing the most serious charges were Steve Christian and the middle of his three sons, Randall, known as Randy. At 53, Stevens Raymond Christian is the dominating personality on Pitcairn. The island mayor for the past four years, he appears to be one of the wealthier inhabitants. People on Pitcairn defer naturally to Steve, who in addition to mayor holds the positions of island supervising engineer, dentist and radiographer. But Steve Christian also liked young girls. He reserved for himself the right to break them in as they came of age - much to the frustration of some of his contemporaries, who looked for even younger prey. Christian started young himself, at the age of 14. The defence described him as running a "harem". Randy Christian took on the attributes of his father, repeatedly raping the daughter of one of Steve's closest associates. When the girl made a statement to the Kent detectives, her father, who was one of the defendants, disowned her. It was to be expected of Pitcairn that, while the rest of the world watched with interest the trials convulsing the island, the inhabitants themselves remained largely absent. Confronting unpleasant reality is not their way. The question now is what will happen to Pitcairn. The Christians and their fellow sex offenders will be told of their recommended sentences later this week, but formal convictions and sentencing must await the outcome of the latest in a line of legal challenges. But until February at least, the defendants will remain at large, trying as they have done for years to ignore the inevitable. © Daily Telegraph, London 
