christianity
{ Samantha McCaughren 
    August 09 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/christians-coming-to-a-radio-station-near-you-26369079.html }
NEWSTALK may be going nationwide, but the Christians are coming too following the advertisement of a new religious radio licence. The new station is expected to introduce a new model to the Irish market, with revenue coming from donations, as well as advertising and sponsorship. However, ad agencies have expressed scepticism about the ability of such stations to attract revenue. Despite this, a high level of interest in this licence is anticipated, although the usual suspects from the world of radio investment may be absent from this race. A broad trawl of ideas for future radio stations in Ireland last year turned up several potential backers of Christian stations, many of whom want to shake off the fuddy-duddy image that a Christian station conjures up. Up to ?3m will be invested on the station, with Christian stations around the world being sized up by consortia planning to apply for the licence. The major challenge will be financing this station, as revenue from traditional advertising source might be thin on the ground, as the audience profile might not appeal to many advertisers. However, the stations might appeal to advertisers playing on their ethical stance, as has happened in the UK. In the US, there is a commercially successful Christian radio group, but around most of the world, the formats are usually "not for profit". The Broadcasting Commission of Ireland (BCI) is seeking applications for the new station by October, which will be quasi-national and will run on AM and FM. Dave Heffernan's group Mission Media is among those who have already put forward an initial plan for such a radio station and the consortium is proceeding with a full application. This station would aim to get up to 5pc of its target audience tuning in after two years, an ambitious projection in the increasingly hard-fought radio market. This group plans that 20pc of the station's output would be current affairs and news, but the vast majority would be music. Mr Heffernan, who was formerly on the board of East Coast Radio, said he anticipates that Christian music will be complemented by contemporary music with a positive message. He expects the station to get charitable status. "Our preference is to make it a donations-driven station," he said. In terms of advertising, he said filters would be applied in line with internal guidelines on the proposed station. Another group which has expressed interest in a Christian licence is headed by Peter Bradsha and United Christian Broadcasters. This group expects the capital investment to be less than ?1m. Irish Christian Broadcasters, headed by Stephen Cardy, expects advertising to account for up to 85pc of revenue, with donors just accounting for less than 6pc of income. This group believes that the station's incomes would reach ?2.4m by year four on air. Paul Moran of Mediaworks in Dublin is doubtful that a Christian radio station would have much success in securing ad revenue. "It's one thing for a station to launch and deliver an audience, but it has to be an audience that the advertisers want to target," he said. He said that advertisers want to target three main audiences - the 15-to-34 audience, the business community and the main shopper in the household. "If you look at advertising revenue, it targets primarily these three audiences," he said. He said that if a Christian station successfully attracts these groups in large numbers, ad spending would follow. While organisations such as charities would be likely to advertise on the channel, he questioned how much revenue this could bring in. Applications are due in mid-October. 
