christianity
{  
    June 20 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/rocknroll-heaven-26545146.html }
It is a music festival that is about as far from the Oxegens and Electric Picnics of this world as you can get. MAD -- which stands for Make A Difference -- is a day-long Christian music event taking place tomorrow in a picturesque setting near the village of Glenealy, Co Wicklow. The first act, Elation -- described as a "home grown group that works with Youth 2000 and Knock Youth Ministry" -- is on stage at 2pm, just 15 hours after Oasis finish their set in front of 80,000 people at Slane Castle. The contrast between the two gigs couldn't be greater. Slane has become part of Ireland's cultural landscape, a byword for the hedonism of rock where the beer queues are lengthy, drug arrests a possibility and casual sex a near certainty -- despite camping not being officially permitted. The Oasis song 'Cigarettes & Alcohol' -- which will probably be aired tonight -- sums up this sense of anything goes. MAD, on the other hand, will be finished by 10pm. Alcohol is prohibited, smoking is not allowed in the live tents and there is a strict no-no on camping. And don't expect any act to match Oasis's swaggering menace -- rather than celebrating the rock 'n' roll lifestyle, the MAD line-up will be singing about living a better, more Godly life. The organiser Tim Phillips -- well known in the business community thanks to the Ballyfree turkey empire he created in the 1960s -- insists that the music on offer will be a long way from the happy-clappy guitar playing types of Christian music cliché. "We have a rap band coming over," he says, cheerfully, "and some very good rock bands. They are every bit the musical match of any band you'd care to meet. Oasis -- eat your heart out. "I can't stress to you enough what a fun day out this will be -- there will be nothing preachy about it. MAD is a safe, friendly environment for people of all ages. We had nearly 2,000 people last year for our inaugural event -- and that was despite no conventional advertising. It was a word-of-mouth success and I think there is a huge appetite for a festival of this nature." Tim (71), his wife Susan and like-minded friends devised the non-profit festival to provide a "safe alternative for young people, but one that doesn't preach to them." The festival takes place on Tim's own land and he says all money raised from ticket sales funds the event. "We just about broke even last year." Contemporary Christian Music (CCM) -- as the genre has become known -- has become big news over the past decade. In an industry reeling from stagnating sales and a culture of free, illegal downloading, CCM is enormously popular, especially in the US where Amy Grant, Mercy Me and Chris Tomlin have a large, devoted following. Each of the four major record companies have launched their own religious labels or bought shares in Christian record companies. Witness the amazing success of The Priests -- the Irish clerical trio -- who are signed to Sony/BMG, and the healthy sales of Liam Lawton, the Carlow-based priest, on the books of EMI, once home of The Beatles and Radiohead. One of the headliners at MAD is Shell Perris -- a 24-year-old singer and youth worker from Warrington near Liverpool -- whose second album will be released in the autumn. "I had no religious beliefs until I was about 15," she says, "but I found God when he helped me cope with an eating disorder. I suffered from anorexia nervosa and I was given eight weeks to live, and someone advised me to turn to God and while I didn't recover straight away I experienced a sense of peace that I can only attribute to God's love. Here I am, nine years later and as well as I've ever been." Shell likens her music to Kelly Clarkson -- the hugely popular American pop singer. "My songs are inspirational, hopeful. I was bullied when I was in school -- it's something that led to the eating disorder -- so I have had many things to draw upon when growing up in my songs." Like most performers in the CCM field, Shell dresses conservatively when viewed alongside the likes of The Pussycat Dolls or Girls Aloud. "Obviously, I want to look my best but I don't think I have to wear revealing clothes to do that. There is a huge pressure on young girls to look a certain way and I want to show them that they are beautiful just the way they are. They should be comfortable in their own skin." Emma Wood, a 20-year-old student nurse from Bray, attended MAD last year and enjoyed it greatly. She is typical of the new generation of Christians who have traditional, staunch views, but with a modern outlook too. Brought up in the Church of Ireland tradition, she prefers to define her self as a Christian rather than by denomination. "I like to live my life in the best possible Christian way, even though it can appear to be out-dated in some people's eyes. I find I have to explain myself a lot." A regular churchgoer, Emma does not plan to have sex until she is married. "I've been with my boyfriend for five-and-half-years and while our choice can be difficult at times we both feel it is the right thing to do. I believe that love-making is something that should only take place in marriage between two people who love each other." Emma's boyfriend, Alastair White, a 20-year-old engineering student from Sandycove, Dublin, believes his generation is too permissive. "Look at the amount of drinking that goes on and the casual sex between people that barely know each other. I don't want to be judgemental about other people, but then I don't think they should be judgemental about me. I live my life as I choose -- nobody is forcing me to live this way." For Emma, her desire to live a Christian life means drinking alcohol in moderation. "I'm always careful that I don't drink too much. Otherwise inhibitions are lowered and that can be a dangerous thing." She applauds the organisers of MAD for not serving alcohol. "There's this perception that you need to drink to have a good time, but that's not the case at all -- and that certainly wasn't the case at MAD last year." While MAD might be a relatively new kid on the block, there have been similar Christian music events in the North for several years. Summer Madness has been held in early July in Belfast every year since 1987. Originally devised by the Church of Ireland youth department, it attracts 5,000 people each year. "Roughly 10-12pc of attendees come from the Republic," says organiser John McKee. "We get some Catholics, but generally people who attend tend to come from the Protestant denominations. I think Summer Madness is a healthy, safe and fun way for young people to have a good time. It gets bigger each year." While the Protestant faiths may have stolen a march on making religion more trendy for the young on this island, the Catholic Church has been making up lost ground. July 23 - 26 will see the ninth annual Knock Summer Youth Festival taking place with up to 1,000 young people expected to attend. Among the attractions at the Mayo shire will be Psalm Drummers, who use percussion instruments "to encourage a life lived in time with the heartbeat of God" and Don King -- "a hip hop dancing champion". Attempts by Christians to look trendy and keep up with the times have frequently been the subject of ridicule. Who can forget Graham Norton's star turn in Father Ted when he played the obsequious Fr Noel Furlong, singing and dancing in a caravan? The composer Ronan Johnston, who will be performing at MAD and became something of a household name as a result of his teacher role in You're A Star, believes Christian music will never escape this worthy image. "We have to face the fact that the gospel message is not very cool. But it is challenging and can be very powerful. I think Christian music works best if it is not banging people over the head with its message. But it should not be just a cheap, knock-off of rock music, either."  Tickets for MAD cost €20 and are available at the site entrance at Ballinacoola, Glenealy, Co Wicklow, from 1pm tomorrow 
