christianity
{  
    September 15 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/its-time-we-began-to-understand-islam-26250747.html }
The vast majority of Muslims are as devoted to peace as conventional Christians are, says Colum Kenny THE men who brought terror to America last week were probably devout Muslims. It is said that a copy of the Quran (Koran) was left in one of their cars at Boston airport. But their actions were against the teachings of Islam as understood by the vast majority of the followers of Mohammed and the attacks have been condemned by Muslim organisations worldwide. However, calm words from Muslims were offset by a TV image of Palestinian children cheering and an Arab woman blubbering with glee as she learnt of the attacks on the USA. Such pictures, seen again and again, will have helped persuade Americans that any response by the US government is now a case of "good against evil", as President Bush suggests. Yet TV crews could easily have found or sparked a similar tribal response among certain "Christian" people in West Belfast when the IRA bombed Canary Wharf. That too was a "spectacular". Reports of acid being thrown in the face of women who do not wear "the veil" or of undemocratic Arab regimes harshly suppressing dissent create the impression that Islam is an uncivilised culture. Many Irish would be deeply concerned if their daughters or friends converted to Islam. They find it hard to believe that some people choose freely to become Muslims or that Islam appears to be the fastest-growing religion in the world. There is widespread ignorance and fear about Islam in western countries. It is often regarded with disrespect, partly because of the place of women in Muslim societies and partly because of the extremism of some followers. But its followers are of many kinds. Contrary to what is often assumed, the vast majority of Muslims are not even Arabs but live in Asia and elsewhere. There are more than seven million Muslims in the United States itself. The word "Islam" comes from an Arabic root meaning "peace". This "peace" depends on submission to the will of "Allah", as Muslims call God. Muslims worship Allah alone and do not like being called "Muhammadans" because they do not believe in their prophet in the way that most Christians believe in Jesus Christ as a divine being. To Muslims Jesus and Muhammad were simply mortals who conveyed the word of God and lived exemplary lives. Muhammad is said to have been the final prophet, who received the Quran from Angel Gabriel. Many westerners today find such accounts unbelievable and reject all religion as superstitious and divisive. But history shows that when people reject religion they do not necessarily behave better. Suggestions that "religion" is to blame for the sins of believers may be a convenient way of ignoring the underlying causes of conflict. We in Ireland, of all places, should be slow to adopt the phrase "mindless violence" in relation to the aggressive acts of Islamic revivalists. Their violence is actually very mindful, as carefully calculated as that of any Irish group that has wreaked havoc in London or Enniskillen or elsewhere. No matter how misguided such actions are, they have their own social, economic or political rationales, and the religion of the perpetrators is only incidental to these. Last week's attacks were indeed entirely evil and wrong, but the United States and its allies are not entirely good and right. At present, a US administration led by a president without a decisive democratic mandate seems to support unconditionally an Israel led by Ariel Sharon, whom Israeli investigators found shared responsibility for the slaughter of Palestinians in the refugee camps of Sabra and Shatila. Where was the Irish day of mourning then? HISTORY shows clearly that those who commit the most terrible atrocities usually find a way to justify them in the name of God or of the common good, whether their justification is framed in Christian, Muslim, Jewish, Nazi, communist, capitalist or other ways. And just as Christians have even killed Christians (and lots of them) in God's name, so Muslims kill Muslims in Afghanistan, Iran and elsewhere. Iraq's Saddam Hussein has killed far more Muslims than has any American and he has possibly sacrificed Iraqi children to help discredit UN sanctions. Yet followers of Muhammad have noble ideals and the violence of "Muslim" dictators and revivalist groups are as unworthy of Islam as the actions of "Christian" and "Jewish" extremists are unworthy of their faiths. I was reminded of this fact when I saw the middle-aged son of evangelist Billy Graham on Rupert Murdoch's American Fox TV channel last week. He seemed to be all but baying for a holy war. Even the smooth and shiny-suited young presenter was visibly disturbed, and commented on how "unusual" it was to hear a "man of God" talk like that. Yet Billy Graham and his sort have easy access to the White House, even though few Christians worldwide would like to have their Christianity equated with that of US president, George W Bush jun. A sober American view of Islam is found in Responses to 101 Questions on Islam, one of a series of popular US Catholic guides to religion written by Dr John Renard of St Louis University. He is worth quoting simply because what he says is so at odds with the popular western understanding: "Both the Christian and Islamic traditions have sanctioned recourse to violent means to rectify blatant injustice. But mainstream teaching in both allows such action only in sheer desperation, only as a last resort, after pursuing every conceivable alternative. Islam, like Christianity, teaches in the strongest terms that terrorism is simply wrong. Nothing whatever in mainstream Islamic tradition and teaching defends any activity generally recognised as terrorism." Renard has a doctorate in Islamic studies from Harvard but his considered judgement is unlikely on its own to convince a sceptical public that terms like "Arab terrorist", "Islamic fundamentalist" and "Taliban" do not define all that we need to know about Islam. Just as conventional Catholics such as Pope John Paul II believe that the only true belief ultimately is Catholicism, so Muslims believe that anyone who hears the teaching of Muhammad and rejects it will not be saved. For how could one believe in anything if it is not thought to be right? After that, the extent to which people are willing to respect the views of others varies, but most Muslims, like most Christians, reject compulsion and violence when it comes to religion. There are said to be 11,000 Muslims in Ireland, of whom 6,000 live in Dublin. They welcome non-Muslims to their mosques. The mosque in Clonskeagh, Dublin, includes a book store and coffee shop. Anyone can buy a copy of the Quran (a spelling preferred to "Koran"). But it may be daunting for Irish Catholics to read the Quran when most seldom or never read even the Christian Bible. * Dr Colum Kenny is a Senior Lecturer in Communications at DCU 
