christianity
{ John Cooney 
    April 08 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/steep-decline-in-knowledge-of-christian-faith-26264612.html }
STARTLING evidence of the increasing secularisation and drift from Christianity in Irish society is contained in a new opinion poll, which reveals that 95pc of 15 to 24-year-olds cannot name the First Commandment. The poll found that only half of 15 to 24-year-olds could name the authors of the four Gospels, while just 38pc were able to answer correctly that the Catholic Church has seven sacraments. As Christians throughout the country celebrated Easter this weekend, the poll showed that a third of 15 to 24-year-olds did not know where Jesus was born and a third could not say what the Catholic Church celebrates at Easter. Conducted by Lansdowne Market Research for the Iona Institute and the Evangelical Alliance of Ireland, the poll (the first of its kind) indicated that levels of basic religious knowledge among the population were dropping fast but were most marked in the under-24 age group. The poll was based on a national representative sample of 950 interviews. Only 10pc of the 15 to 24-year-olds canvassed could say what the Catholic Church's dogma of the Immaculate Conception is, and only one in two in this age group could correctly identify Genesis as the first book of the Bible. The findings will be of concern to all the Christian churches, to teachers and to parents wanting to raise their children in the Christian faith, said David Quinn, director of the Iona Institute, a religious research think-tank. "The poll deliberately asked very basic questions - the ABCs of Christianity, and a few of the ABCs of Catholicism - and found that levels of knowledge are alarmingly low," Mr Quinn said. "This seems to be especially true of those who are either still in school or have only recently left school, which is probably the opposite of what you would expect." Sean Mullan of the Evangelical Alliance said the poll showed that the popular conception of Ireland as being imbued with a Christian culture was becoming a thing of the past. "The notion that Christianity can be transmitted through the culture from one generation to the next is clearly no longer valid." Mr Quinn said that even those who are not Christians should raise an eyebrow at the results. "Some knowledge of Christianity should be part of general knowledge because Ireland has such a deep Christian heritage." 
