christianity
{  
    December 23 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/bethlehem-is-an-open-prison-and-people-living-there-have-the-psychology-of-inmates-26352620.html }
Let us pray to Mary, Queen of Peace, to implore from God the fundamental gift of  concord, bringing political leaders back to the path of  reason, and opening new possibilities of dialogue and agreement. (Pope Benedict XVI) Let us pray to Mary, Queen of Peace, to implore from God the fundamental gift of
concord, bringing political leaders back to the path of
reason, and opening new possibilities of dialogue and agreement. (Pope Benedict XVI) ONCE a bustling cultural and spiritual centre hosting tourists and pilgrims from around the world, Bethlehem has become an isolated town, with boarded up shops and abandoned development projects. The age-old link between Bethlehem and Jerusalem - its spiritual, cultural and economic lifeline - has effectively been severed as a result of the erection of the separation wall and the expansion of illegal settlements on land acquired by coercion. Furthermore, since July of this year the main crossing between Jerusalem and Bethlehem is now closed to Palestinians who live in East Jerusalem. A simple journey from Bethlehem to Jerusalem, only 14 kilometres apart, can now take an entire day. Bethlehem, the city of peace, is a big prison. People living inside have the restricted possibilities and the psychology of prisoners. It is easier to get from Ireland to Jerusalem than for Palestinians to get from Bethlehem to Jerusalem. Difficult as it is to comprehend this restriction, which makes it extremely hard for Palestinian Christians from east Jerusalem to pray at the Church of the Nativity, the situation for Christians in Bethlehem wishing to attend Sunday Mass at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem is even more arduous. No Bethlehem resident is allowed to visit Jerusalem without special permission from the Israeli army. In effect, the communities of Bethlehem and East Jerusalem, which are intimately connected through family, work, education and religion, are forced to live divided by a 25-foot wall that surrounds Bethlehem on three sides - unable to visit their friends and families, or go to their universities and places of worship. In a recent article from Open Bethlehem (a civic initiative founded in 2005 that is based in Bethlehem University) the implications of these developments are starkly outlined. "Only a few years ago, one could see shepherds roaming the biblical valleys, providing an uncanny counterpoint to the trappings of modern life in Bethlehem. Today, the sheep graze on urban refuse sites, a reminder of how little pastoral Bethlehem remains. Economic hardship has resulted in waves of emigration from the city and reports warn that the face of Bethlehem will change forever." Emigration is particularly marked among Bethlehem's Christian communities. Not so long ago the Christians in Bethlehem made up over 70pc of the total population. The most recent statistics put the figure at 30pc. Since the year 2000 alone, more than 400 Christian families have left the area. This development means that the birth place of Jesus, home to the oldest Christian church and the oldest Christian communities in the world, will have nothing left of its history other than the cold stones of empty churches within a few generations. Disturbing as it is to acknowledge that almost 10pc of the Christian population of Bethlehem have emigrated since the year 2000, the decline of the Christian population in the totality of the Holy Land is even more striking. Today, it is estimated that there are more Christian Palestinians in Sydney, Australia, than in Jerusalem, and that there are more Christian Palestinians in North America than there are in the Holy Land. This Christmas, in a spirit of solidarity, may we join in prayer with the Christian community in Palestine and with all Israelis and Palestinians of good faith. Bishop Raymond Field is Chair of the Irish Commission for Justice and Social Affairs, a commission of the Irish Bishops' Conference. This is an edited version of a statement sent this week to all parish priests in Ireland. 
