christianity
{  
    January 24 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/action-absent-from-week-of-christian-unity-27371073.html }
Its not that long ago since it received major coverage in both the newspapers and the radio. Catholics and Protestants came together to pray under the same r... It’s not that long ago since it received major coverage in both the newspapers and the radio. Catholics and Protestants came together to pray under the same roof. It may well have been a middle-class phenomenon, but something was astir and people were talking about taking action in an attempt to make Christian unity happen.The idea received an extra impetus because of the problems in the North. Catholic and Protestant bishops were seen praying together. For many, this week gave people the opportunity for the first time to visit churches of another denomination. It seems to have petered out by this stage though, and the week of prayer for Christian unity is now something of a damp squib. There is a number of ecumenical prayer sessions scheduled for the week, but it is very much a low key operation. At an international level the Churches are in constant dialogue with one another and there is serious theological debate going on between Catholics and Protestants on the theology of the Eucharist and the validity of orders. The Pope has set aside this Thursday as a day of special prayer for peace and he is meeting with representatives of the religions of the world in Assisi to mark the occasion. But when it comes down to the local parish we seem to be as far apart as ever, at least when it comes to any sort of understanding or appreciation of the theology and philosophy that divides us. It sounds outlandish now, but it’s not that long ago since we were forbidden from attending services in the churches of other faiths. There are still vexed issues about inter faith marriages, but time and events seem to have moved on and people decide for themselves what’s most appropriate in their situation. Yet we do seem to be stuck in some type of time warp when it comes to a serious debate between the Christian Churches. We might well argue that the problem in the North is a social, political, or class problem. But it is Protestants and Catholics who are beating each other up, throwing insults at one another and even killing each other. The highlight of the ecumenical year at a news level has to be the comments of Cardinal Connell about his Church Of Ireland colleague, Archbishop Empey, when he said that he was not an intellectual heavyweight. They certainly were imprudent words from a man who can be most careful with what he says. There was an irony there also, in that Cardinal Connell himself is not an expert theologian as his discipline is philosophy. The Cardinal, who has a doctorate in philosophy, has spent most of his life teaching Metaphysics at UCD. Some months earlier there was the incident of President Mary McAleese receiving Communion in Dublin’s Christ Church, which caused a public furore and a major media debate. Both issues became tinged with emotion, and once that happens it’s most difficult to keep the debate at any sort of serious rational level. Church people on both sides are at times inclined to believe that it’s a question of the media having its own agenda and that it suits them to ‘have a go’ at the Churches. Nothing is as simple as that, however. A week set aside for Christian unity is a great idea and it is a shame that it has lost its original vibrancy. Anyone to attempt to say otherwise is really not living in the real world. Okay, the idea of going along to one another’s churches may have reached its sell-by date – one could also argue that it was the same group of people who were involved in the ecumenical prayer every year. But that does not mean that the Churches should allow the week to die off. I saw no letter or statement in any of the newspapers from either Catholic or Protestant bishops about the week. Wouldn’t a common letter from the Protestant and Catholic bishop of the diocese have been something worth undertaking? It could make for interesting reading, that is, provided it had some meat to it and was not simply an exercise in political correctness. The Christian Churches have far more in common with one another than those issues which divide them. Christians believe in the one God and that Jesus Christ is God (though the Dean of Clonmacnoise, Andrew Furlong, has recently begun a controversial debate on the divinity of Jesus). There are issues that divide us such as the sacraments, interpretation of the Bible, and tradition. Then there are the vexed issues of the ordination of women priests, attitudes to divorce and remarriage, and very recently there have been hints of differences regarding opinion on in vitro fertilisation. It is interesting to note that those issues are sex related, but that’s for another article at a later date and when I have more courage. It would be a real pity if we have lost our enthusiasm and energy to pray together, but maybe the time is here where we could sit down and discuss at diocesan and parish level what our differences are really about. This might be a frightening question, but it is in some way true: do Christians really care about their theological differences, or is it more some sort of deep bigotry that exists in us, some entrenched bias that might well be fostered by powers outside ourselves? I remember when growing up in Dublin there was a number of Protestant families on our road and I as a child actually believed that they were ‘different’. Where did I get that idea? It certainly had nothing to do with theology or philosophy. There was also a time when I believed bigots were all on the ‘other’ side. I sure have learned that bigots are not exclusive to any one religion or any one State. It is a real shame that more work has not been put into this week of prayer for Christian unity. Might it be that we are not really serious about real unity?  You can telephone me at 066 
