christianity
{ David Quinn 
    August 23 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/david-quinn/west-must-stop-ignoring-the-plight-of-persecuted-christians-29521785.html }
IF there is one good thing that could emerge from the turmoil engulfing Egypt, it is that the Western world might finally start to wake up to the persecution of Christian minorities that is taking place in many countries. To varying degrees, Christians are still routinely persecuted in secular, communist countries like China, Vietnam and North Korea, but with the fall of communism in Eastern Europe, persecution of Christians by communists has obviously declined greatly. However, the slack has been taken up in many Muslim countries, or countries with large Muslim populations, such as Nigeria, Algeria, Libya, Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Pakistan. In Egypt, even before the fall of the secular Mubarak government, people who had converted from Islam to Christianity were often brutalised and tortured by the police. In 2005, one Christian convert, Muhammad Mahmoud, was arrested, kept in solitary confinement, beaten, whipped and told he must renounce Christianity. Only after an international campaign was he released. In a similar vein in 1990, Egyptian security services arrested three Christian converts and tortured them over a period of months. They were subjected to electric shocks, beatings, cigarette burnings and placed in tiny, cramped cells. There are plenty of other such examples. Before the fall of the Mubarak government, Egypt's Coptic Christian minority was already vulnerable to attacks by Muslim militants, with police often standing by and doing nothing to protect them. However, since the fall of Mubarak, the attacks have grown much worse because the forces of militant Islam, or 'Islamism', have grown far stronger and more emboldened. Dozens of churches and other Christian places have been attacked and burnt. In the middle of last week alone, according to Dr Naguib Gabriel, president of the Egyptian Union of Human Rights Organisations, numerous churches were attacked by forces loyal to the deposed, Muslim Brotherhood-backed Morsi regime. And whereas the military has killed hundreds of anti-government protesters, government opponents have also killed many people, including a disproportionate number of Christians. One 10-year-old Christian girl was shot through the chest a few days ago. Here in Ireland, we are getting to hear very little about any of this. RTE's 'Drivetime' gave it some coverage last week. However, in the main it is attacks by the Egyptian army on the Muslim Brotherhood that are getting all the coverage. Attacks by Muslim Brotherhood militants and others on Christians are getting almost none. This gives us a very lop-sided view of what's going on in Egypt. In fact, RTE sounds positively pro-Muslim Brotherhood. A good example of this kind of lop-sided coverage occurred on 'Morning Ireland' the other day, when a representative of the Coptic Christians in Ireland was interviewed. He did himself no favours by claiming that 95pc of Egyptians were against the deposed Morsi Government – obviously Morsi has a lot of support – but bizarrely an interview that was supposed to be about the persecution of Coptic Christians turned into another item about the persecution of the Muslim Brotherhood. Other media in other Western countries are covering events in Egypt in much the same way. This has been a source of huge frustration to the beleaguered Copts in Egypt. The Coptic Pope, Tawadros II, has accused the Muslim Brotherhood of inciting sectarian clashes and the Western media of ignoring this fact. Coptic activist, Wagih Yacoub, says Copts are also angry with the EU and the US for "portraying the Muslim Brotherhood as victims while not mentioning the destruction of over 80 churches, as well as monasteries, orphanages, businesses and Coptic schools by the Muslim Brotherhood". And it's not just the Christians of Egypt who are being left to suffer almost alone. It is the same in Syria, Iraq, Pakistan and elsewhere and it has been going on for years. The attacks intensify wherever Islamists grow in power and influence and that often happens after the fall of a military dictatorship. This places Christians in these countries between a rock and a hard place. They don't want to support the military dictatorships, but they know that if they fall, things often become worse for them. So what are they meant to do, especially when the once Christian West could hardly care less about them? Why don't we care about them? One reason is because we don't know. Our media are not keeping us properly informed. Another reason is that our own churches shamefully aren't giving the persecution of their fellow Christians in other parts of the world enough attention. A third reason is that many are so determined to put Christianity in its place after its long years of dominance in this part of the world, we are blind to the fact that in other parts of the world not only is Christianity in its 'place', it is mortally threatened. Therefore, we prefer to see the Muslim Brotherhood as victims, even though Morsi tried to impose an Islamist-inspired authoritarianism upon Egypt, and even though some of its members are responsible for much of the violence in Egypt. We need to take the blinkers off. We need to recognise the fact that Christians have become the most persecuted religious group in the world today and that tens of millions of Christians are being deprived of their most basic rights. If what is happening to the Copts in Egypt right now does not make us remove those blinkers, nothing will. They will be left to the tender mercies of their persecutors – and wondering why we are so indifferent. Irish Independent 
