christianity
{  
    January 20 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/the-place-of-suffering-in-christian-experience-27052933.html }
As the scale of the disaster in the Far East claimed world attention, questions have arisen as to how it might have been limited in its consequences by better advance warning and better planning. Geophysicists were aware of the risk of some such calamity in that unstable zone of the earth’s crust. Naturally, in view of that known risk, there have been recriminations about failures to take preemptive measures to protect vulnerable populations. And as we take stock in the aftermath of that horrific experience, other questions come to confront believers in divine providence, be they Jews, Moslems or Christians. In his pain at the loss of his family, a pious Moslem survivor declared that Allah must be very angry to visit such punishment on them. One feels that some righteous Jews would say Amen to that, given their memory of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah interpreted as punishment for sin. However, their more recent history would confront them with the Holocaust. Where was Yahweh when his Chosen People were in such dire need of protection? For Christian believers and would-be believers it is also a challenge. On the day of the disaster an 84-four-year-old friend from Leeds telephoned me. He has described himself as a rationalist, a friendly agnostic, one who admires Christian faith from some safe distance. I saw the question coming and come it did. “Denis,” he asked, “where is your Christian God in all this? Can he still be seen as a caring, loving Father?” It was a loaded question. We had discussed the general issue dispassionately at many a meeting but never against so poignant a background as now. He knew that he had backed me emotionally into a corner where stock answers would not suffice. He left me off the hook with a favourite comment of his, that of the philosophers of Athens dismissing St Paul to the effect that they would like to hear more from him at some other time. The exchange set me thinking seriously about whether I could make sense of the situation for myself. Only then could I hope to make some reasonable comment to meet the challenge of my philosopher friend. It is evident that the hard-core atheist can comfortably sit out the whole debate. For him or her, natural disasters are just facts of life, not problems. Jean-Paul Sartre put it neatly. Evil in the world becomes a problem only if you expect the world to make sense, only if you expect it to add up because of some divine providence. God cannot exist because how could God sponsor evil? In this mindset the only rational attitude in face of natural disasters is the fatalism of Stoic philosophy. Do not expect things to happen as you would wish but accept them happening as they do. You are responsible for the consequences of what you yourself do or fail to do. That’s it. For agnostics, like my philosopher friend, evil in the world, particularly that perceived in natural disasters, may remain a barrier to faith. Indeed, any believer who has not personally felt the weight of this problem has not appreciated the challenge of Christian faith. He will not be much help to a questioner. For Christians and other believers, the effort to bridge the gap between the fact of evil in the world and belief in a caring God has exercised the finest minds down the centuries. Philosophers struggled with it intellectually. Writers of great literature weighed it emotionally. I feel that these writers speak to heart and mind more powerfully than do philosophers speaking to intellect and reason. One thinks of Dostoyevsky in 
The Brothers Karamazov, Albert Camus in 
The Plague, Elie Wiesel in 
The Night. From different approaches they deal with the question of the unmerited suffering of the innocent, specifically where children are the victims. Dostoyevsky’s novel confronts two brothers, one a believer, the other a non-believer. They discuss the horror of a child bayoneted and thrown to ravening dogs. Wiesel experienced at first hand in a concentration camp the hanging of a child on a scaffold among other family members who had planned sabotage. Camus tells of a plague which inflicts painful death on children in Oban. All of these force one to ask why this should happen. In truth, believers never think so hard about the sacred as when they are driven to think about the human. In Dostoyevsky and Wiesel, the malice of humanity is charged with the immediate guilt – and the blame. But still, why does God allow this? In Camus, where the more direct question of divine providence arises, we come close to the recent experience in the Far East. Plagues and earthquakes are natural disasters. Human agony has no hand in them. Can God the Creator be responsible for these inbuilt systems failures? What of God the Father, of whom Jesus says that not even a sparrow drops to the ground without him knowing about it? Are there any solutions? Know-all answers mock the real suffering of victims and dismiss the serious underlying questions. Perhaps the Book of Job in the Old Testament takes the right approach. When Job questions God on why all this unmerited suffering has been visited on him, God asks how he, a human, dares question the Almighty. So should believers also rest their case and keep trust in God despite appearances? Here we stand on the threshold of mystery, where Christians have a say. St Paul proposes that now we see shadows in a mirror but when we see face-to-face we shall better understand. Behind any Christian reasoning about suffering is the mystery of a God who delivered his Son to crucifixion as our Saviour. In our search for understanding of the redemptive process we say that it was an expression of a divine love which transformed human suffering in the process. Even the rationalist philosopher T.H. Huxley accepted that “Nothing can penetrate the loneliness of the human heart like total self-sacrificing love.” Over and above all human understanding looms that mystery of the Cross through which Christ redeemed humanity through love. In Camus’s story Dr Rieux explodes in the face of Fr Panelou: “Until my dying day I shall refuse to accept a scheme of things in which children are put to torture!” To that the priest replies: “Working side by side for something that unites us – beyond blasphemy and prayers – it’s the only thing that matters.” There is work to be done. The acceptance of unmerited suffering as a mystery of divine providence should not lead to apathy. It calls for positive action. God may bring good out of what appears to us to be unmitigated evil. The experience of suffering may refine the human spirit into sensitivity, into empathy with the sufferings of others. The Russian poet philosopher Solzhenitsyn, who had spent long years interned in the Siberian Gulag under the Stalinist regime, wrote: “Suffering is a lever for the soul. I have rarely met a genuine human being who has not been refined in the crucible of pain.” That refined spirit is then driven by an existential sense of need to alleviate the sufferings of others and to neutralize the causes of tragedy, particularly those for which man’s inhumanity is responsible. That existential sense of need to act is deeper than the cold conviction of moral duty. One can do no other. That saying of Solzhenitsyn finds hard-earned proof in the experience of those who have passed through the pain barrier to find a measure of peace and the courage to go forward against the odds. All they need from others is the presence of quiet support, not sentiments of sympathy. Here three women come to mind, women who had certainly been refined in the crucible of pain. Mary Craig’s 
Blessings is a classic. It tells the story of how she coped and grew spiritually in the process of caring for her severely handicapped children. In place of demented scrabbling, courage crept up on her along the way. This quotation, which she applied to some of her heroes, is taken from another of her books, 
Candles in the Dark, but it certainly applied to her as well. Equally well known is Dr Sheila Cassidy, due to the torture and other horrors which she suffered in Pinochet’s Chile. Her 
Good Friday People speaks to the hearts of Christians. It celebrates many martyr witnesses to the Gospel in South America. It is an extraordinary account of “pain bearers”, as she calls them, travelling with Christ to Calvary. She says “Those who have walked in darkness have seen a great light. I seek out their light quite instinctively because I know that it is not their own but God’s.” She quotes Sr Ita Ford, a Maryknoll sister murdered in El Salvador, who had said of another sister killed earlier after a long life of service: “My beat-up old friend is an example of God’s strength being made manifest in our weakness. His goodness and love shining through our vessels of clay.” Of the three women, we leave Dr Margaret Spufford to last because her book 
Celebration shows best of all the steps of an anguished pilgrimage from rejection to acceptance of God’s will. She asks “How can an omnipotent Creator allow such things to happen?” She has little time for Job’s God, “too much of power without accountability”. She herself suffers from the crumbling bone condition of osteoporosis. Her daughter is awaiting death from a terminal metabolic disease. In the ward around her are other children similarly afflicted with fatal genetic conditions. In her anguish she says that it was to the mystery of Christ on the Cross that she “clung like a limpet”. “In these terrible children’s wards I could neither have worshipped nor respected any God who had not himself cried, ‘My God, my God, why has thou forsaken me?’ Only because it was so, only because the Creator loved his creation enough to become helpless with it and suffer in it, totally overwhelmed by the pain of it, I found there was still hope.” The mystery of unmerited suffering still remained, but Margaret Spufford had found inner peace. She had come, she says, to be able to pray God’s will be done, “the hardly prayable prayer of the Annunciation”. Higher truth is better apprehended by the heart than comprehended by the mind. For that have we not Mary Craig, Sheila Cassidy and Margaret Spufford as witnesses? The following note was placed on the emaciated body of a dead child in the concentration camp at Ravensbruck: “O Lord, remember not only the men and women of goodwill, but also those of ill-will. But do not remember all the suffering they have inflicted on us. “Remember the fruits we have bought thanks to this suffering – the comradeship, our loyalty, our humility, our courage, our generosity, this greatness of heart which has grown out of all this. “And when they come to judgment, let all the fruits which we have reaped be their forgiveness!” Finally to get back to those who see natural disasters as punishments decreed and imposed by an avenging God. That justification had already been advanced for the AIDS pandemic. But to answer within the same context of mind, how can unmerited killing of the innocent children be explained in any reading of diving justice? Would not such a God be a vindictive tyrant? In conclusion, suffering is an integral part of the human condition. It is a challenge to Christian faith. It will be seen to make better sense the more we live in the shadow of the mystery. Meanwhile the human condition continues to remind us that existence in this world is precarious. As St Paul said, we have not here a lasting city. We just have a lease of life. 
