christianity
{  
    January 05 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/the-mission-of-the-saviour-is-universal-27050843.html }
On January 6, Feast of the Epiphany, the Crib will be given its full complement of figures with the addition of the Three Wise Men. The story is told in chapter 2 of St. Matthew’s Gospel. For human interest dramatic tension and tragic impact it would make a gripping one act Nativity Play in four scenes.First the Three Wise Men arrive in Jerusalem enquiring about the newborn king of the Jews. Second the visitors meet the Holy Family and offer homage to the Child Jesus. First the Three Wise Men arrive in Jerusalem enquiring about the newborn king of the Jews. Second the visitors meet the Holy Family and offer homage to the Child Jesus. Third Herod aims to eliminate the threat to his throne by slaughtering all two-year old male children in Bethlehem. Fourth the Holy Family sojourn in Egypt until danger has passed with Herod’s death. The specifics of the story raise interesting questions for those who would analyse the data in detail. Who were those Wise Men? What was that star? Does it help us to date the birth of Jesus. The Wise Men or Magi would most likely have come from Persia, which would have been where Iraq and Iran are in our maps. There the worship of Ahura Mazda was at the centre of the Zoroastrian religion. The Magi may well have been of the priestly caste in that religion. The prophet Zoroaster taught the concept of two opposing forces good and evil. There was that single supreme deity Ahura Mazda which represented the principle of the good. Zoroastrianism was perceived by early Christians as a providential precursor of the Gospel message. Now for that star! It is given a place centre stage in the story of the arrival of the Wise Men to Jerusalem and their journey on to Bethlehem. The Magi may well have been well versed in astrology which would have commonplace in the east at the time. An unusual celestial event would certainly have caught and held their attention. At its simplest one could imagine the star as a kind of miraculous lantern in the night sky leading the Wise Men to their destination. That would make it a parallel to the blaze of light by night and the pillar of cloud by day which once had led Moses and the children of Israel to the Holy Land. Astrologers go for a more complicated explanation connected to an event which happens once in 900 years when the planets Jupiter and Saturn are in straight line with planet Earth. Such an event occurred in 7 B.C. by our calendar. Perhaps that linked with the expectation of a Messiah familiar to Babylonian scholars from their long association with the Jews. It may well be make-belief but that suggested 7 B.C. has proved interesting for dating the birth of Jesus. We just do not know that exact date of birth. Our AD – BC system was established in 525 A.D. and in comparison with the secular calendar is accepted as incorrect by several years. The time of the Birth of Jesus had simply been given the notional date of 1 A.D. However, from secular sources the Herod who had met the Wise Men died in 4 B.C. if we date it by that secular calendar. Herod had all boys of two years old and under killed off in his effort to eliminate any rival. That would then date the birth of Jesus some time before Herod’s death in 4 B.C. Radical interpreters of Scripture would respond to the above analysis as a case of us having lost the run of ourselves in the detail. For them the absolutely striking fact of the Birth of Jesus as Saviour called for emphasis in ways commonly used in ancient tradition. It would be incorrect to read that style of glorification as history. Colourful legend would provide the ideal medium for expressing the full significance of an event. Stories such as the Shepherds at Bethlehem and the Wise Men with their symbolic gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh would have been intended to highlight the meaning of the Christ event. It was not intended to be read as history. We accept that, particularly in the Old Testament, there are styles of writing which are closer to legendary compositions than to historical accounts. One has only to think of the stories of Job and Tobias. However, at the time of writing of the Gospels the authors and their audience were close contemporaries who would have learned of the events at first hand. They would have known of the facts as reported. It was also an era when historical writing in Greece; Rome and Palestine was a professional exercise. Any author who indulged in fantasy would have discredited the events which he aimed to embellish. Imagine someone putting out that story about Herod’s slaughter of the children! It might well have been in character with Herod’s typical measures for consolidating his position but locally it would have remained fresh in people’s memories. Inventing it would have been dismissed as fraud. The term “Epiphany” in a religious context means a revelation of divinity. The word fitted well to identify the force which drove the Magi to recognise the divine presence in Bethlehem. The Christian Church came to interpret the events as a sign that the mission of the Saviour was universal. It applied to the Gentiles as well as to the Jews, who had from the beginning prided themselves as the Chosen People. They claimed a unique status. The question of extending the reach of the Kingdom to pagans as well as to Jews occasioned much debate among the first generation of Christians. It took a vision to convince Peter of this position. He said: “The truth I have now come to realise is that God does not have favourites but that anybody of any nationality who fears God and does what is right is acceptable to him” (Acts of the Apostles 10:34-35). Even so, Peter in the presence of Jews chose to act with political correctness. This way of acting was challenged by Paul who took him to task. Eventually the issue came for resolution before the Apostles at Jerusalem. They rejected a compromise that for reception into the Church pagans should first become Jews and then they took practical pastoral steps to ease the controversy. The effective appeal was to Peter’s vision and to the self-evident fact that pagans also had received the Holy Spirit. This more immediate focus does not discredit the veracity of the older Magi story. There was no need to invoke it and to analyse its symbolic message when they had to hand the hard facts of their own experience. That message was that God was Lord of all and that Jesus was universal Saviour. Looking back on those early centuries one marvels at how secure the Apostles and early missionaries were in their personal convictions so that they could borrow from and employ the religious terminology and experience of the time to preach the Christian faith. They were quite prepared to see providence at work in the religious traditions of various cultures. These religious traditions were seen as preparation for the preaching of the Gospel. The Christian faith was seen as the fulfilment of all those religious searchings and yearnings for spiritual truth. That positive generous approach is seen in the New Testament itself. It tells of God as speaking in various ways to the Jews in times past but now finally proclaiming his message through his Son Jesus Christ. True, that would have reflected continuity with the older Jewish tradition but did not exclude other sources. The approach extended also to pagan religious searching for truth. Paul at Athens referred to an altar “To an Unknown God”. Then he added: “Well, the This positive attitude extended to the early Greek theologians, who before their conversion to Christianity had been teaching philosophy in Antioch and Alexandria. It was from their philosophical and religious background that they drew the language to express and explain the Christian faith, a terminology which we still preserve in our catechisms and text-books. The Second Vatican Council certainly endorsed our Christian faith that Jesus is universal Saviour and that “in no other name can we be saved”. Still, the religious searchings of other cultures “through the kindly workings of Divine Providence, may sometimes serve as a guidance course toward the true God, or as a preparation for the Gospel”. (Decree on Missions ch:1, par 3). The Church in its Creeds and Councils established the substance of the Christian faith. It did not invent a totally new language except where the As we celebrate the Epiphany we should stand in wonder at the glory of the Christian faith which has found a home in all cultures worldwide. It came to recognise and incorporate the Socratic theme of the Good, the True and the Beautiful wherever it was found. One will compromise and sell the Christian faith short when one sees the Church only as a political and social institution. This is how secularisation may erode the heart of Christian faith by focusing attention on the human externals. The media generally regard the Church as a political institution side by side with the State, as just another player in the public arena. The Church as community of faith does not make news, even though this is its essential nature. 
