christianity
{ Maeve Sheehan in Cabra 
    August 26 2018 05:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/pope-francis-in-ireland/survivors-tell-how-pope-was-shocked-at-their-harrowing-stories-of-abuse-37252185.html }
Shortly after 2pm, Damian O'Farrell set off from his home off Griffith Avenue in north Dublin to meet the Pope. He was instructed to be at Archbishop's House in nearby Drumcondra for 3pm and to be on time. There he joined a small group of seven others. They didn't know each other but they knew what they had in common; they each had suffered the enduring damage of being abused as a children by priests or religious. Now they were preparing to meet the leader of their abusers' church.  Damian O'Farrell is best known as an independent councillor for Clontarf and as an advisor to Finian McGrath, his local TD and minister for people with disabilities. He is also an abuse survivor who fought to have his abuser brought to justice when he realised that he was still teaching other kids. In north Dublin, he is a low-key advocate, known as the go-to person by other people who were abused as children by Christian Brothers.  A Vatican spokesperson last night confirmed those present as O'Farrell, the campaigner, Marie Collins, Rev Patrick McCafferty, Rev Joe McDonald, Paul Jude Redmond, Clodagh Malone, and Bernadette Fahy. One survivor, a victim of Fr Tony Walsh, asked to remain anonymous, the Vatican said. The group was told the meeting would take place at the Papal Nuncio's residence in the Phoenix Park, where the Pope spent last night. It would be sandwiched between his visit to the Capuchin Centre for the Homeless and the Mass at Croke Park at 7.30pm. At 3.20pm, two people-carriers arrived to bring the group across the city. A therapist with Towards Healing, a counselling group for people who have suffered abuse in Catholic institutions, travelled with them. At the Nunciature, the group was shown into a reception room with eight chairs arranged around a ninth seat, that was clearly to be the Pope's.  Nuns with the Franciscan Order of the Renewal served the guests tea and coke and light refreshments. They were from Drogheda, they told O'Farrell. Members of the Swiss Guard were on duty. An official told the group to "relax", that they would have as long they as they liked, and to treat the Pope like a friend, according to O'Farrell. Then at 5.15pm, the door opened and Pope Francis and an interpreter, entered. "He thanked us all for coming and we thanked him," said O'Farrell. "The pace of the meeting was slow. People got a chance to say what they want. We thought we would have to rush out all that we had to say. But it wasn't like that at all." The Pope listened as everyone in the group took turns to speak or asked questions. According to O'Farrell, he seemed shocked at some of the first-hand testimonies he was hearing from survivors of institutional abuse, and at the harrowing stories of women incarcerated in Magdalene laundries. It came to O'Farrell's turn. "I asked him will you the Holy Father and leader of the Vatican and the worldwide church going to have an investigation into the cover-ups and corruption that led to further abuse?" he said. "He said he was going to do that. He said he was very determined. But he said it would take time." O'Farrell said he asked the Pope about the Commission for the Protection of Minors. [One of his fellow group members, Marie Collins was a former member of that Pontifical commission but resigned over the Vatican's failure to implement its recommendations] "He said that's set up again, and he's confident that that will be working very effectively. Then I mentioned about dealing with the Cardinals and Bishops that covered up; what about them. Are they going to be cast out?" said O'Farrell. "This cover-up was like dirt in a toilet, filth. He said that two days before the Conclave, he said we'll be thinking that Jesus will be knocking on our doors to try and get in… He said Jesus will be knocking on the doors to get out, because of the filth that's in the Church. He said he said that just two days before the Conclave." O'Farrell said he talked about the Christian Brothers, and mentioned the case of John Allen, an abuse survivor who has been waiting 16 years for compensation. "We talked about reparation. He didn't really answer that too much. I also said that he owes an apology to the Catholic faithful," he said. "For some people, it is very difficult to be a Catholic in Ireland today. But a more meaningful apology for survivors will only come with reparation, accountability and truth." At the end of the meeting, the Pope went back over some of the points that had been raised, said O'Farrell.  "The interpreter took notes. There was a bit of an action plan. He is going to mention a few things at the Mass in the Phoenix Park," said O'Farrell. One member of the group discussed Church tribunals and that they should be in public, according to O'Farrell. "At the very end, he was summing up what everybody said, and he said that was a very good point about the tribunals being in public.  Justice needs to be seen to be done," said O'Farrell. The meeting ended at 6.45pm. The Pope had to go to another meeting before he was scheduled to appear at Croke Park. When O'Farrell was six, an older Christian Brother beckoned him to his residence next door to the school. There O'Farrell remembers walking naked in a circle around a standard lamp, as three or four Christian Brothers sat watching him. "They were giving me compliments. Someone would tap my shoulder to keep me walking," he said. "I knew it was wrong... It was humiliating. I didn't realise it was abuse until well into my adulthood." When he was eight, another Christian Brother, a football coach, groomed him. O'Farrell was good at schoolboy soccer and the brother lavished him with praise. He attempted to rape O'Farrell, on at least four occasions in all. Aged 12, O'Farrell was sexually abused by a third Christian Brother. The teacher used to visit O'Farrell's father at his workplace, grooming the family, as well as the boy. "I was love-bombed," said O'Farrell. O'Farrell never spoke about what happened to him because no one did. He got counselling. In the mid-1990s, two things happened. The case of Fr Brendan Smyth, the notorious paedophile exposed the Church culture of secrecy that shielded child predators.  Then O'Farrell's wife, a teacher, met a man with the same name as one of her husband's abusers on a training course. He was still teaching at a Dublin primary school, although no longer a Christian Brother.  O'Farrell reported his abuser to the Christian Brothers who promised his written complaint would be dealt with, they would alert the school where he was teaching and let them know of the complaint. But O'Farrell's abuser remained teaching at the school for another three years. O'Farrell had to go to the school directly. The chair of the board of management told O'Farrell to go Gardai. The school principal later told O'Farrell that the Christian Brothers had suggested that the complaint was anonymous. The former Christian Brother eventually pleaded guilty and was convicted in 1997, not only of abusing O'Farrell but another boy as well. After the trial, O'Farrell still wanted to know how this man was allowed to continue teaching in a primary school for three years after he had first complained. He arranged a meeting with a senior Christian Brother. "He said something like you needn't think there is a pot of gold here. He started talking about money. I said, 'you left that guy for three years. There were hundreds of kids in that school'. He said he didn't like my tone, he came around his desk and he manhandled me out of the room."  O'Farrell sued the Christian Brothers, settling the case after nine years. Sunday Independent 
