climate change
{ Letters to the Editor 
    February 20 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/letters-to-the-editor-tory-party-needs-its-own-split-to-be-free-of-zealots-in-erg-37834035.html }
What is the European Research Group (ERG)? Sounds like something academic, right? Wrong. It is a lobbying group for Brexit with a disingenuous title. Its raison d’être, when it was created in 1993 by the British Conservative Party, was opposition to the UK’s further integration with the European community. But now it is defined only by its opposition to UK membership of the EU. It is a tax-funded lobbying group for Brexit holed up in the Tory party. Wake up, Westminster.  The ERG is a party within a party. The fault-line is there. The Tories must split. May the ripple effect of Labour’s tremor reach across the house and trigger the political earthquake Britain needs.  Alison Hackett Dún Laoghaire, Co Dublin   Rugby must act now or face a spate of serious injuries Reading Ewan MacKenna’s article about rugby’s bosses (‘Time for rugby to wake up and ask not if damage is being done, but how bad that damage will be’, Irish Independent, February 16), I could not agree more. As an ex-referee, I wrote to the IRFU two years ago to ask if the laws had changed since I last refereed. They said no. What that means is that referees are simply not blowing according to the law any more. I see in almost every match dangerous play that would have resulted in people being sent off 20 years ago.  Serious injuries will absolutely become the norm unless that changes. Richard  Barton Maynooth, Co Kildare   Nuns failed in their duty to provide proper sex education I beg to differ with Michael McPhillips (‘Religious orders acted in good faith on sex education’, Letters, February 19) who states that “Sex education was thought unnecessary by nuns when all girls and boys were taught that sex outside marriage was a sin. Was that so bad when it was the only way they knew to prevent unwanted children?”  While one must agree with the nuns in encouraging young people to abstain until they had matured, the young women in their charge were still entitled to know how their bodies worked. While the intention was that ignorance of how reproduction occurred would reduce the number of unwanted babies, in fact, it had the opposite effect.  Contraceptives were freely available in Ireland until 1935. The papal encyclical banning the use of condoms was published in 1930, and in 1935 the sale of condoms was banned in Ireland. One can reasonably assume the two events were linked.  Being part of the organisation that removed the right to contraceptives, the least the nuns could have done was to provide proper sex education to the children in their charge.  This would have reduced the number of unwanted babies outside marriage. Of course, proper sex education would also have reduced the number of babies born within marriage, and this would never do. Anthony O’Leary   Portmarnock, Co Dublin   Keegan’s claim a damning indictment of housing system Dublin City Manager Owen Keegan’s claim that people are making a “choice that they will stay in emergency accommodation rather than avail of housing systems payment in the rental sector” is an extraordinary admission by such a senior official that housing policy based on such schemes, HAP etc, are not fit for purpose.  Presumably, he has plans to bring forward a more acceptable housing plan for the future, like building more social houses. Jim O’Sullivan Rathedmond, Co Sligo   Climate change campaign kids should all stop flying I must compliment Nick Folley (‘Children should continue the climate crusade at weekends’, Letters, February 18). He is quite right to point out their education should not become a victim of demonstrations during school hours and that they confine their demonstrations to the weekends.  He rightly says the world’s leaders and the richest elites are impervious to the plight of millions threatened with displacement or death because of climate change. We are unlikely to see climate change on the agenda in Davos until the elite are hit in the pockets.   I would suggest that the children would make a real contribution to climate change if they stopped bleating about eating meat and instead refused to go on foreign holidays by plane.  Their placards should read ‘No holiday flights’ in the real interest of climate change. Any other nebulous chants are just tokenism.   On return to school in the autumn, the children should ostracise any fellow students who wish to impress the audience with stories of overseas holidays taken at the expense of climate change and the home holiday market.  Hugh Duffy  Cleggan, Co Galway Irish Independent 
