climate change
{  
    October 06 2011 01:51 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/guest-speakers-for-talk-on-climate-change-at-dkit-26957297.html }
TWO speakers from Africa will take part in a talk on climate change in the DkIT on Thursday October 13th. As part of their on going work on climate change Trocaire are launching the second phase of their campaign, which will continue to focus on Ireland and the EU's engagement in the international negotiations for a fair, ambitious and binding global agreement. A strong focus will also be on campaigning for domestic climate legislation in Ireland. Climate change is increasing the intensity and frequency of extreme cyclical weather events in Kenya such as drought and flooding. People living in poverty in rural areas are worst hit by the impacts. In Kenya, Trócaire supported the establishment in 2009 of the Kenya Climate Change Working Group, a forum which brings together representatives from local organisations, government and parliamentarians. Among the core objectives of the Working Group was to promote a law for climate action in Kenya and national policies that support climate justice for all, in particular the most vulnerable. Between 2010-2011, the Working Group drew up a draft Climate Bill. Once enacted the law will ensure that climate change is included in all government ministries and reflected in budgetary planning. As a particularly vulnerable country that has contributed virtually nothing to climate change, adaptation to climate change is rightly the priority for Kenya. Nevertheless the bill also focuses on reducing pollution and improving environmental conservation. This talk will take place at 1pm, Syndicate Room, T K Whitaker Building DkIT. Members of the public and everyone interested is welcome to attend as we all need to find new ways of responding to climate change. The speakers will be John Kioli Kalua, Executive Director of the Green Africa Foundation, an African organisation that spans the continent, and Mrs Cecilia Kibe Muthoni, who is among the senior executive staff of the Kenya Climate Justice Women Champions (KCJWC), a network for advocacy on gender and climate justice in Kenya. 
