climate change
{  
    December 10 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/news/mercury-rising-35273617.html }
In his talk 'Mercury Rising - Planning For Our New Climate Reality', Dr Barry O'Dwyer told his audience in Bray last Friday of the scientific evidence demonstrating that climate change is happening now. The Bray native outlined its likely acceleration with catastrophic consequences for planet earth and its people if it is not arrested and adapted to. Dr O'Dwyer is is a leading research scientist on climate change impacts and adaptation at the Centre for Marine and Renewable Energy (MaREI), University College Cork. 'In addition to all the research work that demonstrates this changing situation there are many easily identifiable pieces of evidence of what is happening; arctic sea ice is declining rapidly, sea levels are rising,' said Dr O'Dwyer. 'Sea levels around Ireland have risen by 4cm to 6cm since 1990 with the greatest increases observed for the Irish Sea. Rainfall patterns are changing and extreme storms in the north Atlantic area are increasing in both frequency and strength. In Ireland in recent years we have seen storms breach our coastal defences and unprecedented flooding in inland regions as a result of extreme rainfall. All of this at huge financial, social and environmental costs.' He explained that rising temperatures can have serious health effects for vulnerable populations, particularly the old and the young. In agriculture our ability to grow traditional crops will be negatively affected, traditional fish stocks such as mackerel are moving north with increasing temperatures and with major implications for our fishing industry, and coastal erosion caused by rising seas and storm surges will put a lot of our coastal infrastructure at risk. Dr O'Dwyer went on to say there is an urgent need to respond proactively to this situation and there are two broad approaches we can take: mitigation and adaptation Mitigation measures involve reducing our emissions of greenhouse gases so as to decrease the causes of climate change. However, regardless of our mitigation efforts, our long history of greenhouse gas emissions now mean that climate change is now locked-in till at least mid-century Adaptation involves accepting the reality of climate change and adapting our way of living to this new reality. Our approach to adaptation must be nuanced and will involve difficult choices. It will not be possible to defend all the areas vulnerable to climate change impacts and we will have to choose to defend where impact will be greatest in social and financial terms. This will pose major challenges for everyone and particularly for policy makers and politicians. 'In order to successfully adapt to the ongoing and expected impacts of climate change, an inclusive and integrated approach is required in which appropriate policies and programmes must be put in place at national and international levels while at the local level adaptation solutions must be put in place that are community led,' said Dr O'Dwyer. 'This involves identifying our areas of vulnerability and the sensitivities that need to be addressed. 'Making progress, gaining acceptance and building a willingness to change requires a huge amount of awareness building and education among the planners, policy makers, politicians and the electorate.' Dr O'Dwyer thanked Bray Sailing Club for the opportunity to engage and debate with such a large audience and hopefully help raise awareness levels on this challenging topic. Speaking after the event, Green Party councillor Steven Matthews said 'Barry O'Dwyer presented us with a thought provoking and very frightening assessment of the future we face if we don't make the hard decisions necessary to combat the effects of climate change. 'There is no doubt that it is happening and that we are sleepwalking into a future of catastrophic climate events that will impact on every aspect of our lives and that of future generations. 'There is a serious deficit of political will and understanding at local and national level to address the problem and it would serve us well if Barry was invited to make his presentation to both houses of the Oireachtas and to all local authorities. Action on climate change is something we have to demand from all politicians regardless of party or position.' The Rosslyn Court native said that while we can already see the consequences of climate change, it's not too late for the individual to become aware of the realities we are facing. He said that some hard decisions are going to have to be made, including accepting that we will lose rather than defend certain portions of coastline. He added that while there are a number of 'climate change deniers' in the world, that is a very small portion of the scientific community and the community at large. 'For me the science is clear,' he said. 'The public are starting to become more aware.' He said that while there will always be danger in some rhetoric, it's important to hold these kinds of talks to bring the science directly to the people in an accessible way. Bray People 
