climate change
{ Ian O'Doherty 
    November 03 2014 11:10 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/ian-odoherty/climate-change-is-nothing-but-the-new-religion-for-a-discredited-united-nations-30715168.html }
Cast your mind back a decade, if you dare. The smart kids were already warning about the impending economic collapse but things were good, credit was cheap and easily available and if there was any sort of downturn, we were promised a soft landing. Indeed, if you took someone from 2004 and showed them Sunday night's main RTE news bulletin, they would have been forgiven for thinking that we had experienced a very soft landing and everything was, relatively speaking, back to normal. How else could you explain the fact that their lead item was dedicated to the latest UN report on climate change? It would be nice to think a UN report was the biggest thing to happen in Ireland over the weekend. But I suspect the 150,000 people who took to the streets to protest the water charges might have something to say about that. Why would the national broadcaster start the news with a survey rather than actual news? Isn't that just a little bit odd? Well, it may be odd but it's also because climate change is the one issue which makes even normally sceptical journalists run around in ever decreasing circles, frantically doing their best Chicken Licken impression. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report contains nothing new, apart from the usual flannel from people like Ban Ki-moon and the ubiquitous Mary Robinson who felt compelled to say that: "The science is clear. We cannot say we do not know the facts." Actually, it would have been more accurate to say that we can all see the evidence, but the facts are still in dispute. Everybody knows the climate is changing and nearly everybody accepts that there is obviously a human element involved. But it is the extent to which we are responsible and, critically, the extent to which we should be paying for it, that provokes the debate. This is one of those areas where people can agree on 90pc of the issue and still be condemned for heresy. In fact, when it comes to a toxic combination of dogmatic, intolerant orthodoxy with jaw-dropping hypocrisy, the climate change movement could give the pre-Reformation Catholic Church a run for its money. Like all earthly institutions which offer salvation, climate salvation comes at a price - taxes, increased prices, levies, surcharges, fines, and retrofitting. And, like all earthly institutions which knows what side its bread is buttered on, there are always escape routes for the rich. After all, what is a 'carbon offset' but a modern plenary indulgence? Whoever came up with offsetting is a genius who probably has an interest in Medieval religious history. How else can you explain the obvious nonsense of multi-millionaires with private jets telling the rest of the world they have to cut down on their emissions? They will quickly point to the fact that they are involved in carbon offsetting, which simply means they can afford to plant some trees every time they board a plane. The lesson, therefore, is don't sin . . . but if you must sin, make sure you do it for a good cause and as long as you continue to pay for offsetting then your salvation is still guaranteed. We shouldn't be surprised. After all, the rich do things differently. But it is still disturbing to see normally intelligent people so bovinely accepting of the absurdity and hypocrisy of their climate change leaders. It's not going against science to point out that many of the warnings peddled by alarmists have proven to be myths. Far from becoming extinct, as had been warned, the polar bear population is growing. Satellite imagery from NASA two years ago showed that glaciers are growing, not melting. Global warming became global cooling. Global cooling has now become climate change. Yet anyone who raises these points is denounced as the type of crank who regards evolution as a myth and thinks the MMR vaccine is a Government plot. Like all religions, the current orthodoxy is down to the most human instinct of all - the desire to exert control. The 'control' I'm referring to is the basic human need to have some sort of influence over our environment and it goes back to the earliest man. You don't see animals sacrificing each other to make sure the sun comes up the next day, but you see plenty of supposedly smart people who think changing their light bulbs will make a difference. If the desire to control our environment was the first human impulse, the need to make everyone else think the same way was probably the second. Which is why climate change scepticism is the new blasphemy. From a political point of view, it makes sense for the UN to declare war on climate change, if only because it could never wage or win an actual conflict. Rwanda, Srebrenica, the wider Balkans and the Middle East are all testament to the strange combination of cynicism, cowardice and political chicanery of that foul organisation. So it is much easier for Ban Ki-moon and Mary Robinson to angrily wave their fists at the sky than condemn human actions. Unless those actions are by America or Israel, obviously. The UN is a pointless, enfeebled corrupt bureaucracy which should be discarded in ignominy to the scrap heap of history. But you can't blame the UN if you still think that there's a single thing you can do that will impact on climate change. Of course, you can continue to fret about your carbon footprint and you can sponsor a few trees if you think it will make you feel righteous and more virtuous. You can even attend some events with like-minded people where everyone shows how fervent their beliefs are. Sound familiar? Irish Independent 
