climate change
{ Jonathan Pearlman Sydney 
    January 01 2014 11:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/climate-alert-as-study-shows-planet-heating-faster-than-ever-29882057.html }
SCIENTISTS say the world's climate is warming faster than had been feared because previous predictions were too "optimistic" and overestimated the cooling impact of clouds. As the planet marked its fourth-hottest year on record, an Australian-led study published in the journal 'Nature' found that increasing levels of carbon dioxide would lead to thinner ocean clouds. This, it found, would reduce the cooling impact of the clouds, causing temperature rises of at least 5.6 degrees fahrenheit (3 degrees centigrade) over the course of the century. The team of scientists said the findings showed some climate models had been too "optimistic" and previous estimates of a minimum temperature rise of only 2.7 degrees F (1.5C) could now be discounted. The optimistic models did not properly assess the impact of water evaporation, which sometimes rose only a short distance into the atmosphere and caused updraughts that reduced cloud cover, the study found. "These models have been predicting a lower climate sensitivity but we believe they're incorrect," Prof Steven Sherwood, from the University of New South Wales, told the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. "The net effect of climate change is you have less cloud cover." TEMPERATURES The study comes amid a controversy in Australia over claims by Maurice Newman -- the leading business adviser to Tony Abbott, the prime minister -- who said the world had been taken "hostage to climate change madness". Mr Newman said the climate-change establishment, led by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, remained "intent on exploiting the masses and extracting more money". He wrote in 'The Australian': "The scientific delusion, the religion behind the climate crusade, is crumbling. Global temperatures have gone nowhere for 17 years. If the IPCC were your financial adviser, you would have sacked it long ago." Mr Newman, a former chairman of the Australian Stock Exchange, was criticised by the opposition and pilloried by scientists, who said he was expressing "flat earth" views and should be sacked. "His piece is a mix of common climate-change myths, misinformation and ideology," said Prof David Karoly, from the University of Melbourne. Mr Abbott once claimed that climate change was "absolute crap", although he later said he accepted that it was "real". He has moved to scrap tax on carbon emissions, which had been imposed by the Labour government, and instead proposes to address climate change by paying polluters to reduce emissions. However, critics have said that the plan is underfunded and will not achieve its reduction targets. The debate comes as Australia in 2013 marked its hottest year since reliable recordings began in 1910. The world's driest continent also recorded its hottest day, hottest month, hottest winter's day and hottest summer. Globally, according to figures from the United States National Climatic Data Centre, 2013 was due to be the fourth-hottest year in 134 years of records behind 2010, 2005 and 1998. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
