climate change
{ Myles Buchanan 
    January 18 2020 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/wicklow-county-council-signs-climate-action-charter-38861705.html }
Wicklow County Council has signed the Climate Action Charter which commits the Council to playing its part in tackling Climate Change. Wicklow was the first county in Ireland to declare a climate and biodiversity emergency. A motion on the issue passed unanimously in Wicklow County Council last April with a number of local students from the school strike movement present. The charter is an agreement between Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment Richard Bruton, Minister for State for Natural Resources, Community Affairs and Digital Development Sean Canney and Wicklow County Council. Cllr Irene Winters, Cathaiorleach of Wicklow County Council, said: 'I am proud to sign this important charter committing Wicklow County Council to play our part in tackling Climate Change. We stand ready to lead on climate action and have huge ambition for what the local authority sector can achieve with government support.' The charter was developed in consultation with the local government sector and commits signatories to a number of objectives to address the climate challenge and advocate for climate action and behavioural change among citizens.  Cllr Jennifer Whitmore, Chairperson of the Climate and Biodiversity Action Strategic Policy Committee (SPC), said that the charter gives the council direction and 'sets ambitious targets' for the coming years.  'It will set the tone for a busy work plan for the council's newest SPC,' she said. Wicklow County Council Chief Executive, Frank Curran, said: 'Climate change is the defining issue of our time. It requires a serious and urgent response. Wicklow County Council recognises that we have a duty to capitalise on our unique position to lead lasting change for the county.' The charter reflects the extensive work councils are already undertaking and have planned in the area of climate action.  Of significant note is the fact that all councils will implement Climate Adaptation strategies that set out the measures each will take to respond effectively to climate change and to enhance resilience to its impact. Among the actions local authorities have committed to under the charter is an undertaking to carry out deep retrofits of local authority buildings and social housing stock; to climate-proof development plans and deliver National Planning Framework objectives for compact growth; to deliver technical and behavioural change training to local authority staff; to support the development of one-stop-shops for residential and commercial energy efficiency; to develop an online checklist for companies to measure their sustainability; to roll out Electric Vehicle charging network and deploy electric vehicles within council fleets; and to implement a new National Waste Prevention Programme and Regional Waste Management Plans. Bray People 
