climate change
{ Mary Kenny 
    December 07 2009 04:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/mary-kenny-we-all-face-charges-of-hypocrisy-in-the-debate-over-climate-change-and-our-environment-26589171.html }
More than a hundred world leaders, including President Barack Obama, plus 16,500 delegates, officials and royalty, as well as hundreds of journalists, will join the globalised jamboree today gathering in Copenhagen to discuss reducing our collective carbon footprint in the cause of climate change. This is now a cause so fashionable that sceptics say that it has mutated "from a debate into a catechism". Deny climate change and you are a "climate change denier", almost in the same category as a "holocaust denier". But we know, for certain, that the systematic murder of millions took place under the Third Reich; we do not know, for certain, that global warming by human activity is causing climate change. The world's climate has changed before -- in the 16th century the Thames froze over; moreover, the climate of Mars has been undergoing a warming effect in recent times and we know there are no people, let alone motor cars, on Mars causing this. Even the recent terrible floods which have damaged so many people's homes in parts of Ireland are not proof that climate change is an established pattern. Insurance companies are waiting to see if this is a "once-in-700-year event", or whether it is part of a new cycle of weather patterns prompted by global warming. Nevertheless, even those of us who are, if not sceptics, at least agnostic on the question of climate change, can appreciate that better stewardship of the world's resources is a desirable practice. And what interests me is how many of the politicians and climate change experts, along with their assistants, advisers, consultants, publicity agents, scientific experts and fonctionnaires, converging on Copenhagen actually practice what they preach? If meat is adding to climate change (as some, including Paul McCartney, seem to believe, owing to the eructating of cows), how many of our climate change aficionados have gone vegetarian or non-carnivorous? They would be hard put to go pescatarian if they lived in Dublin: it is extremely difficult to buy fresh fish in Dublin city now. Marks and Spencer is one of the few outlets which sells fresh fish, and even then, it is packaged in a parcel of plastic and sealed cellophane which, for any observant climate-change campaigner is a definite no-no. Every time I visit a restaurant, or even a private home, it's meat, meat, meat. Climate change politicians, and their followers, if they are sincere, must stop their leaders noshing on meat! How many of the climate change gurus will have flown to Copenhagen by air, when, in many cases, they could go there by train or coach? Anyone in continental Europe can now travel by the most superb rail services. Anyone in Britain can travel to the continent by the fabulous Eurostar train, onto which you can step at St Pancras station and alight in Paris, Brussels, or Lille. (A forward-thinking Ireland should be building a tunnel under St George's Channel to link Irish rail services with Europe.) Politicians everywhere could do their bit for climate change just by travelling less frequently by car. Use the train. Use the tram. Use the bus. The post-war British prime minister Clement Attlee travelled by London Underground; Taoiseach Sean Lemass used the number 10 bus to travel to north Dublin; the King of Norway takes the Oslo tram. You don't have to use private cars -- let alone helicopters -- for every conceivable occasion. I'd personally like to see the odd climate change enthusiast use a horse and carriage -- a supremely ecological way to travel, as the horse's manure can fertilise vegetables and flowers. Sometimes air travel is necessary, but it doesn't have to be used every trip. At least climate change awareness should make people think about that. And the best action for politicians, when seeking to reduce the collective carbon footprint, is to improve public transport. If a bus can carry 130 people, it is doing a better job for planet Earth than a BMW carrying one person. But the real truth is that most people -- even those who support the climate change agenda -- are hypocrites on this issue. They say one thing, but do another. Take personal washing, for example. It is not necessary to take a shower or a bath every day. Recent research indicates that it may even be deleterious -- too much hygiene reduces the immune system. A shower every second day is plenty, certainly in cool climates. I have personally reduced my carbon footprint by showering only about every third day (and I almost never take a bath). If you want to make a personal contribution to the planet's future, wash less! How many offices and homes waste energy, if we come to personal habits? My Dublin flat looks out over the offices of Anglo Irish Bank. They have the lights blazing day and night. Shouldn't they be making economies -- let alone saving the planet? How many offices and homes are ludicrously, self-indulgently over-heated? Even hospitals are almost unbearable to enter because of the over-heating (which, incidentally, breeds bugs). Terrible for the planet. Certain aspects of environmental damage are clearly evident, even to sceptics. Fossil fuels obviously cause damage. (How many of the generally left-wing climate change protesters, by the way, excoriated Margaret Thatcher for closing down coal mines, choosing to support Arthur Scargill's backward-looking fight to send men down the colliery?) If fossil fuels are causing damage, we should not use either coal or turf. The second quite obvious source of damage is cutting down forests, particularly tropical rainforests, since they absorb carbon emitted by the world's industrialised output. And who cuts down forests? Mea culpa, mea maxima culpa: a prime suspect is the newspaper industry, in which I have worked all my adult life. How many journalists reporting from Copenhagen will be filling forests-worth of newspapers and magazines with their doom-laden reports? As I said: in this, as in so much else, we all stand charged with hypocrisy. Irish Independent 
