climate change
{ Treacy HoganEnvironment Correspondent 
    September 18 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/climate-change-means-droughts-floods-and-no-spuds-25966906.html }
THE humble spud is under serious threat from climate change which will also lead to horrendous winter floods and summer droughts by 2050, the State's Sustainable Energy Ireland (SEI) agency warned yesterday. Ireland's ability to grow crops such as potatoes will be in doubt as a result of climate change and the body urged energy consumers to take action. As Energy Awareness Week 2005 gets underway today the SEI, A Government body, warned that the country faced major environmental challenges from climate change including a possible 11pc increase in rainfall "and even an inability by farmers to grow staple crops such as potatoes. A concerted effort is now required to combat climate change". According to new research commissioned by SEI released yesterday, the impact which climate change will have on our country by 2050 will be "sizeable". Ireland's winters will be wetter, with an increased risk of flooding directly as a result of climate change. The temperature in January will have increased by 1.5 Celsius. Winter conditions in Northern Ireland and the north midlands will be similar to the south-west coast today. While milder winters might seem like a good thing, this is not necessarily the case. Rainfall will increase by 11pc. Ireland's summers will be warmer and drier by 2050 and the average July temperature could increase by 2.5 Celsius. While most of us would welcome warmer summers, there could be serious implications of this increase in the form of summer droughts which will impact on the cost of water supply. David Taylor, SEI chief executive, said climate change was the theme of this year's energy awareness week and consumers could make a difference by their actions. Most scientists now agree that energy generated from fossil fuels which releases carbon dioxide, is largely responsible for climate change and that the choices we make today will decide the future of our climate. Mr Taylor added that climate change was already starting to affect Ireland, as evidenced in recent years by the increase in extreme weather events such as floods and storms. Already there has been a noticeable increase in flooding, particularly in the west of Ireland. Likewise we have experienced more summer droughts. "If this continues the impacts will be substantial, among them the risk that Irish farmers won't be able to grow potatoes anymore," he said. "We could also see the arrival of new agricultural pests, threatening crop development." The Combat Climate Change campaign aims to encourage all of us to play our part in addressing this very serious issue. A special website www.combatclimatechange.ie highlights the actions that can be taken by people. The site also includes an energy calculator which allows people to find out if they are a high or low energy user. Mr Taylor added: "Knowing what causes climate change means we know where to look for a solution. The solution is to use less energy where we can and embrace renewable energy sources which don't produce carbon dioxide." 
