climate change
{ Mary Kenny 
    June 01 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/climate-forges-character-its-the-cold-and-rain-on-the-53rd-parallel-that-drives-the-finns-scots-and-irish-to-drink-29312202.html }
When I heard about the Oklahoma tornado, I thought, as I often do on such occasions, of that line in the New Testament which warns of sudden ends: "You know not the day nor the hour." But I also thought, thank heaven we live in the mild, moderate climate of north-west Europe, where the most violent weather we are likely to experience is a bad shower of rain. Oh, all right, occasionally, hailstones in summer. But the weather seldom flattens us or our homes. America – or much of America – is a climate of extremes and, in its various parts, subject to swampy heat, desert dust, earthquakes, hurricanes, twisters, snowstorms, freeze-overs and all manner of great tempests. And climate and geography surely have an impact on personality and culture. We often wax sanctimonious about the American attachment to guns, but the conditions of life on the frontier made the gun a part of survival. It was the gay cowboy movie 'Brokeback Mountain' that brought this home to me. These guys out on those craggy mountain-tops could be savaged by grizzly bears or menaced by poisonous snakes at any moment. This is rough terrain. It's not like tending a few gentle sheep in the bucolic surroundings of Co Kildare. The United States is sometimes a violent country, a passionate country, and a land of extremes, and the climate has something to do with it. Where the earthquakes are – California – there are dippy religious movements and hippy forms of Zen. Everything is bigger for Texans because everything grows big in Texas, from the cacti to the Stetson hats. Canadians are known to be more reserved. Their famous shyness is also linked to their climate, as Canadians are walled up in their homes for eight months of the year. This way of life makes them introverted and serious (that's the theory). "Canada's a swell place to visit," goes the American joke, "but not for a whole weekend." Same thing with the Swedes, who are known for their reserve (punctuated by the Nordic madness during the white nights of summer, and moonshine liquor). There's a Swedish joke about a man who is drowning in a river. "Quick, quick, jump in and save him!" cries a woman to a passer-by. "I can't do that," replies the Swede. "We haven't been introduced!" If cold climates produce introverted personalities, they also produce reading. The Northern Europeans read more of the printed word than any other ethnic group. The long winter nights encourage the reading habit: they also produced the Norse sagas. By contrast, the southern Europeans read much less. They're too busy enjoying the outdoor life in their balmy climates: disporting themselves, in Spain, on the passeo and all around the Med sitting out of doors gossiping. Their climate makes them more gregarious – and noisier. That's always the first thing I notice about Italy, where the lads even put gadgets on their motorbikes to louden the engine noise, and everyone talks at the top of their voices. It's true of people from the Middle East too. Cuineas, le do thoil! But when you can live out of doors, you get used to carrying on conversations that compete with street traffic at decibel level. In their favour, those people from the Med and the Near East seldom booze the way we do. I am convinced that there is a link between alcohol abuse and climate. If you look at those countries above the 53rd parallel girdling the earth, this is mainly where you find the problems of excessive drink: Russians, Finns, Scots, Irish, Icelanders, the Inuit peoples. It's the cold and the rain and grey skies of winter that drive us to drink. There is a charming idea put about by certain politicians that if only the British and Irish drank like Continental Europeans – the civilised aperitif, the moderate glass of vino, the well-controlled digestif in the local café – there would be none of this binge drinking that disfigures our societies. Charming but naive: we'll drink like Mediterraneans when we have a climate like the Mediterranean. Until then, drinking to get legless will continue, because the habit wrought by climate has gone into the collective DNA of the gene pool. Maybe we will get a climate like the Mediterranean. Some environmentalists have suggested that global warming will mean that by about 2070 the south coast of Ireland could be almost tropical. They could be growing vines in Cork and oranges in Kerry. Ah, but it might go the other way too: as the ice caps melt, the Gulf Stream, which flows through our coastal seas, may be borne away by the waters in the Atlantic flooding down from the Arctic. And without that Gulf Stream, Ireland could have the same climate as Newfoundland: long, bitter winters. The Irish climate has surely forged the Irish character. For many centuries, it has been temperate, in that sweet, rainy way – it's said that when Noah's Ark passed by Ireland, someone called out, "Ah, sure, a grand soft day that's in it". Without all that soft rain, it wouldn't be 'the Emerald Isle'. Yet Ireland's climate has seldom been completely predictable. "Four seasons in one hour," as the Dublin cabbies like to say, suggesting that no weather condition will last too long. This climatic changeability has added a streak of volatility and colour to the Irish character. If climate change turns Ireland into Newfoundland, will we become as introverted as the Canadians or as shy as the Swedes? Climate change sure will have a major impact on the way of life everywhere. Email: mary@mary-kenny.com Irish Independent 
