climate change
{ Jerome Reilly 
    May 29 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/day-after-tomorrow-coming-soon-26221026.html }
FLOODS on a biblical scale that will swamp the great cities, football-sized  hailstones with the killing power of mortar shells and an overnight ice age wrought from  300mph hurricanes sweeping down from the Arctic. Welcome to global warming Hollywood-style, as seen in the hit movie The Day After Tomorrow where climatic change happens in an instant and ocean-sized wounds in the troposphere caused by greenhouse gases are ignored with devastating consequences for planet earth and its improbably handsome inhabitants. Scientifically flawed and implausible it may be, but the blockbuster movie may act as a wake-up call in North America, according to Ireland's leading expert on climate change, Dr John Sweeney of NUI Maynooth. And he believes that children born in Ireland 2004 will live to see an Irish landscape markedly different to that which existed at the time of their birth. "No one can look 100 years ahead," he says. "But there are indicators. Ireland is not going to be a desert, nor is it going to be a flooded landscape, so it will not be radically different. However, it will be changed in many, many ways." The change, according to Dr Sweeney, will be gradual. "It will evolve over the 100 years up to 2104 when it will be, on average, about four to six degrees warmer and the sea level will be about half a metre higher. That means that we will have to be getting a lot more concerned about our more vulnerable infrastructure in coastal areas," he says. "We will be looking at an Irish landscape where maize [corn-on-the-cob] will be a widespread crop along with soya bean and there will be less wheat and barley. "Remarkably the potato, though inextricably linked with our history and culture for more than two centuries, will no longer be a viable crop without irrigation," he adds. Dr Sweeney, one of the co-authors of two major reports on climate change in Ireland conducted for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), says that water will be a much more precious commodity than it is today because it will be sought after by farmers for irrigation as well as by urban dwellers. "There will be a lot more value attached to water and a lot more competition for our waterresources," he says. Even our natural plant life and bird life will have changed. Some species of birds whose song can still be picked out during the dawn chorus will have departed and will be replaced with other species. He suggests that our marine environment will also have changed slightly, although as an island we have been immune to some of the worst excesses of climate change because of the buffering effect of the Atlantic ocean. "But at the end of this century, that buffering effect will begin to wear off and we will begin to experience similar climatic changes to the rest of the European mainland," Dr Sweeney says. So what will the weather be like? Dr Sweeney, like all scientists, is cautious about making rash predictions, but maintains that during summer in the early part of the next century there will be a lot more hot and dry sunny days while in Leinster and Munster, far less rain will fall during summer, leading to drought conditions. "That, of course, brings issues relating to water while the mild, slightly warmer winters we now experience in Cork and Kerry will be the norm in the rest of the country by the middle of the century," he adds. "We think it may be as much as four degrees warmer on average in January so that means almost frost-free winters with cattle being able to graze outside during winter. It's clear there will be serious ramifications for agriculture." But winters will also be wetter, especially in the west, so even though the grass-growing season will be longer, it may not be possible to put cattle out in some areas without tearing up the land. "The issue of how we manage our farms, how we store slurry and how we dispose of effluent during drought summers will become very important because if river flow is reduced dramatically, then the loading of effluent in rivers will be much more problematic," Dr Sweeney says. LIKE other experts on global warming, Dr Sweeney says decisions that are taken today will have to take cognisance of the fact that climate will change and sea levels will change. "Civil engineering projects on the Dublin quays and other building work along the coastal areas will have to be climate-change proofed," he says. Dr Sweeney and his colleagues have seen The Day After Tomorrow and liked it. The background science is plausible, though he scoffs at the overnight change that brings an ice age to New York. "Oceanic currents simply don't switch off overnight. Probably the main benefit of the film is that it will sensitise people to the fact that climate change can occur quicker than we thought even 10 or 20 years ago - though not with the rapidity featured in the film." Dr Sweeney says it would be of great benefit if the people of North America were sensitised because they have not traditionally viewed climate change as a problem for themselves. "It will certainly create a greater appreciation of international agreements like Kyoto which the Americans have opted out of. Tackling global warming and climate change will be greatly helped by public sensitisation at the bottom and international concern at the top squeezing the political decision makers in the middle. "The film will focus American minds. They produce a quarter of the world's greenhouse gases. They are part of the problem; they should be part of the solution," Dr Sweeney says. He refers to the recent UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change findings which suggests that recent events are warning signs that climate change may be occurring much more quickly than was previously thought. Those events include the increasingly rapid melting of the Arctic ice-sheet, now covering Greenland, which it is feared will raise global sea levels. The extreme heatwave such as that experienced in western central Europe last August is also another warning sign and led to green guru Professor James Lovelock to warn that global warming was advancing so quickly that only a massive expansion of nuclear power, which produces almost no carbon dioxide, as the world's main energy source can prevent civilisation from catastrophe. 
