climate change
{ Liam Collins 
    January 05 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/hot-times-coming-in-the-old-country-26228004.html }
Global  warming is upon us, but if so the Government hasn't noticed, writes Liam Collins One side of the potato pit was white with frost How wonderful that was, how wonderful! And when we put our ears to the paling-post, The music that came out was magical. THAT was Patrick Kavanagh's Christmas childhood in the early years of the last century. But a child in Rosslare, Co Wexford, might wonder what exactly frost is. The Met Eireann station there did not record an instance of air frost during the year 2002, a remarkable illustration of the changing pattern of weather and climate in Ireland today. We have all noticed it in our daily lives, and according to one expert, people's "collective memory" is just as important as the dry statistics doled out at year's end by the Met Office. "We have selective memory about our youth, we seldom remember the wet and dreary days when we were dying of boredom," says climatologist John Sweeney. "But there is a lot of information coming from the environment that indicates that the natural world is responding to change." Botanist Mike Jones of Trinity College Dublin agrees. "We are seeing spring arriving earlier; that seems to be a consistent change. In botany, you see the trees coming into leaf earlier and flowers appearing earlier. There is a whole group of changes as regards vegetation and that is changing the patterns of migrating birds." Climate change has seen temperatures in this country rise by about one degree in recent years. Rainfall has increased, and frost and snow have become rarer. "It is hard to pin a single year to a phenomenon, but there is a trend over the past few years, from the early Nineties," says weather forecaster Gerry Murphy. "The trend is towards mild winters and an increase in temperatures; over time the amount of frost has declined." As a youngster, I remember standing one New Year's Day outside my grandparents' cottage waiting for Bernie Kane to come and take us to early Mass in Ardagh. He never arrived. The flat Longford countryside was white, the pools in the laneway were filled with thick ice. As a treat we would go out under the bright starry night and fill a bottle with water. In the morning the glass would lie shattered on the wall and standing there would be an ice sculpture of the bottle. But all that has changed. The Irish winter has virtually disappeared, although true to tradition this weekend is trying to make a liar of that statment, with the Met Office predicting a harsh east wind, wind chill, and ice and snow in certain areas. "Weather is in a constant state of flux," maintains John Sweeney of the geography department of NUI Maynooth. But, he says, there is now real evidence to suggest that Ireland is hotting up under global warming. "Certainly things have been changing more rapidly in the last two decades change goes on all the time, but most recent episodes have been human-driven. Ireland has been responding to changes at a global level." The effect of the Gulf Stream on the Atlantic Ocean has "delayed change", says Mr Sweeney, who is also a member of the high-powered Royal Irish Academy's 'think tank' on climate change. But, he says emphatically, "the effect of global warming on the Irish climate is under way". In many ways, we are just catching up on what has been happening elsewhere. Although the winters have become milder and wetter the corresponding change of hotter, drier summers has not materialised. But according to the experts, it will. In the first three months of last year, rainfall was 2.5 times the average. In January, February and November the temperature was up two degrees. "Climate change impacts are projected to increase in future years, which may result in major environmental changes as well as economic and social problems," says the first report on climate change by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which was presented to the Minister for the Environment, Martin Cullen, late last year. "Significant indications of change in the climate can now be detected in Ireland," they say. The Royal Irish Academy's 'think tank' estimates that winter rainfall will increase by 11 per cent "over most of Ireland", while summer rainfall will fall by 25 per cent. "These changes, if realised, can be expected to have significant impacts in the area of agriculture, water resources, biodiversity, the marine environment and sea level." They are now monitoring the changes with weather and climate experts. Most agree that Ireland's weather was fairly constant between 1961 and 1990, but since then the effects of global warming have been creeping up on us with increasing speed. But those of us who lived through last summer's rainy season may be sceptical about global warming. The increasing Irish rain has meant that tens of thousands of business people, teachers and retired people have bought homes in the south of Spain, just to escape for a couple of months to a real summer. There is an element of the "throw of the dice" about the weather, but John Sweeney says we may very well look back on last summer as a minor aberration in the scheme of climate change. But as we view the inevitable changes taking place all around us the authorities appear largely oblivious. "It is fair to say that the bulk of activity has not received political galvanisation," says John Sweeney, which is an academic way of saying little or nothing is being done. While people notice the effects of global warming in their daily lives, all change costs money, and inevitably it falls to the taxpayers to fund it. The only way to slow climate change is to cut down on dangerous emissions of greenhouse gases. The Irish authorities have agreed to impose a carbon tax to raise revenue to find more sustainable sources of energy, but so far there has been no political will to go ahead with it. But other measures, like reducing the national cattle herd and finding new crops that are less harmful to the environment, may also be necessary, but politically taboo. Although the ESB station at Moneypoint is "minuscule" in European terms, emissions are "very high" relative to similar plants. It is not fitted with "scrubbers" to cut down on emissions. The Government has agreed to convert it to natural gas to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxins. But when? Another problem, identified by Andrew Cooper, director of the Coastal Research Group at the University of Ulster, is that Ireland has become a shrinking island. The sea is swallowing up about 750 acres of the country every year. Global warming is likely to subject the west and northern coasts to more frequent and powerful storms, he warns, but nobody seems to notice. "Management of the Irish coast, north and south, is conducted in a piecemeal fashion ... urgent action is needed." What does the weather hold? It is a subject of endless fascination. There was a butcher in Dublin Street in Longford and all day every day the only subject he ever discussed with his customers was the weather. All day it changed, so all day he had something new to talk about. The only certainty is that whatever happens the weather will keep on changing. 
