climate change
{ David Robbins 
    March 17 2019 06:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/david-robbins-the-children-have-spoken-and-now-the-grown-ups-must-act-37921769.html }
They came in their thousands, some in uniform and some in ripped denim, with placards and chants, with wit, humour and most of all with energy. How many? Some said 5,000, some said 10,000. It felt like 20,000. It felt like Woodstock. It felt like hope. They say more than a million schoolkids marched last Friday. More than 120 countries, 2,000 locations. In city squares, outside parliaments, outside cathedrals and schools. The final figures said 11,000 in Dublin and 5,000 in Cork, and hundreds of small bands outside the local national school. The organisers were delighted, but not surprised. The politicians were shocked. These kids will be voting soon. Even Leo Varadkar tweeted support from Trumpland.  Climate change has become the issue of this generation, just the way abortion and repealing the Eighth Amendment was for the one that went before, and gender rights were for the generation before that. How is it that this issue, ignored for so long by the main political parties, has suddenly inspired such passionate engagement among schoolkids? The short answer is, simply, Greta Thunberg. Greta is a pig-tailed 16-year-old schoolgirl from Sweden who went on strike from school, demanding that Sweden take serious action about climate change. Initially, she quit school altogether but was persuaded to curtail her protests to one day a week. And so, Fridays for Climate began. Photographs of her outside her town hall, the Swedish parliament and other official buildings began to be noticed on social media. Then the videos started coming. That's when Greta began to go viral. Greta has Asperger's. And that, it turns out, is a great advantage when it comes to seeing things clearly and talking straight. She has spoken truth to power at the recent UN Climate Change Conference in Poland, to the super rich at Davos and to the bureaucrats of the EU. There is something wonderfully, disarmingly direct about the way Greta speaks. When an Australian education minister said Friday's strikes were unlawful, that children should be at school, she told him that his statement "belongs in a museum". But there is another, more complicated, answer to the question of this new-found commitment to tackling climate change, and it begins with education. In school, children learn about the greenhouse effect, the warming oceans, the rising seas, the species extinctions, the extreme weather, the retreating glaciers, the acidifying oceans. And they learn about mitigation (reducing carbon emissions) and adaptation (preparing for the effects of climate change), renewable energy, electric transport, retro-fitting houses and all the other ways in which it is possible to reduce the amount of carbon in the atmosphere if you really want to. The effects of education - or, perhaps, of information - could also be seen in the Citizens' Assembly when they met to consider the question of "making Ireland a leader in tackling climate change". Over two weekends in late 2017, this group of citizens were exposed to expert information on the climate and on the policy levers available to government to transition away from fossil fuels. One of the citizens spoke afterwards of how this process changed her view. She told of how she used to think burning turf was actually environmentally friendly, as it was a natural, organic material. It was only after being educated, or informed, about peat that she saw things differently. And, along with the 99 other citizens, she put forward 13 proposals for how Ireland can meet its targets for reducing emissions. As was the case with the Citizens' Assembly recommendations on repealing the Eighth Amendment and the abortion legislation that should take its place, the "radical" nature of the assembly's report on climate change surprised many.  They recommended the Government end immediately the burning of coal and turf to produce electricity, that they show an example by having renewable energy technology on public buildings and use electric vehicles for public business. Some 80pc of the citizens said they would willingly pay increased taxes on carbon to help reduce Ireland's emissions. The many school strikes across the world last week broadly follow the same agenda: the strikers demand their governments act to implement the Paris Agreement signed in December 2015. This agreement requires countries to reduce their emissions to an extent that keeps global warming to 2C, and aims for 1.5C. It is based on the climate science provided by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Ireland is nowhere near meeting its obligations under the Paris Agreement. Not only that, we will miss other emissions targets we have signed up to for 2020 and 2030 as part of the EU. And even more seriously, we do not have any policies or plan as to how we will even try to achieve these targets. While emissions from other countries fall, ours continue to rise. We do not yet have a firm idea of when they will peak and begin to decline. In Ireland, economic growth equals higher emissions; in other countries, that link has been broken. The school strikers have brought a much-needed clarity to the issue. They see the science on one side and the policies available on the other. And they ask, not unreasonably, why don't we implement the policies demanded by the science? Often, they get a pat on the head, and a run-along-now dismissal, such as that delivered by Senator Dianne Feinstein in the US. The video of her patronising lecture to schoolkids who came to her office to ask her to support the Green New Deal proposal went viral, and not in a good way. Veteran politicians such as Feinstein talk about what's possible, about politics and legislative tactics. The kids talk about a crisis, a dying planet, an emergency that calls for something other than politics as usual, or business as usual. After all, they argue, it is business as usual that got us here in the first place. "You are not mature enough to tell it like it is," said Greta Thunberg to the UN in December. "Even that burden you leave to us young people."  Adults tend to say: tax carbon? Change farming? Change transport? Change housing? Wind power? It's not as simple as all that, you know. The hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren who marched last week have reminded us that it is as simple as that. Sunday Independent 
