climate change
{  
    June 10 2013 03:27 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/lifestyle/debate-on-climate-change-is-over-29318122.html }
A NOBEL Prize winning climatologist has told an audience in Skerries that 'climate change is real and is man-made' and it poses a threat to coastal communities like theirs. Hosted by local Green Party representative, Joe O'Brien, Professor John Sweeney addressed an audience at Skerries Sailing Club on the subject of climate change. Prof. Sweeney gave a comprehensive presentation on the current global and national situation and also spoke of the faulty theories that climate deniers use. He stated categorically that the academic debate is over – climate change is happening, and man-made. But he said those putting forward that argument are losing the public debate. The meeting was hosted by local Green Party representative Joe O'Brien who detailed the specific vulnerability of Skerries to climate change. Mr. O'Brien said: 'When you look at the three main road routes out of Skerries you see that they are all vulnerable to flooding. Access to the Dublin road can be impeded by flooding at the roundabout. The Balbriggan road recently experienced serve flooding at Barnageeragh and the Rush Road has also in the past been under several feet of water. 'Not to mention of course the recreational centre of Skerries – the somewhat prophetically named Red Island which is at very real long term risk of becoming disconnected from the mainland. 'People in the Holmpatrick area of Skerries have climate change literally coming in their front doors with more frequent flooding in the area.' Mr. O'Brien said these changes are gradual but should not be ignored: 'I don't think that climate change will announce itself with a big tsunami encapsulating Rockabill lighthouse – I think it will announce itself in a way much more grounded in the reality of our daily grind. 'Climate change will arrive in the post with for example higher insurance premiums. In Ireland there are 50,000 houses that cannot achieve flood insurance. This means people cannot sell their home or purchase the one they want to because they cannot get a mortgage for it.' Currently the Climate Change Bill is being discussed in Leinster House. Prof Sweeney explained: 'In 2010, Ireland's per capita emissions of CO2 stood at nearly twice the EU average. I am particularly concerned by the lack of targets and absence of enforcement body in current Climate Change Bill. 'We need a 5% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions per year from now to combat the threat of Climate Change.' Mr. O'Brien asked the audience at the meeting to sign a petition to Minister Hogan to ask him to set a target of an 80% reduction in emissions by 2050 as recommended by the EU and G8. Mr. O'Brien will present the petition to the Oireachtas Committee on the Environment in the coming weeks. Fingal Independent 
