climate change
{ Olivia McGill 
    October 09 2018 09:03 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/budget/id-like-to-think-people-are-planning-for-the-future-but-it-doesnt-seem-like-that-criticism-over-failure-to-raise-carbon-tax-37401216.html }
The Minister for Finance, Paschal Donohoe, said that there would be no immediate change to the carbon tax in his delivery of the Budget 2019 today. He said the Government would “put in place a long-term trajectory for carbon tax increases out to 2030 in line with the recommendations from the Climate Change Advisory Council and the special Oireachtas committee which is examining climate change”. “Budget 2019 builds on the new commitments made in the National Development Plan, which represents a step-change in funding commitments for climate action. “One in every €5 in exchequer investment in the plan will be devoted to addressing climate change. This will provide a significant reduction in carbon emissions up to the period of 2030. “In 2019, the Department of Communication, Climate Action and Environment will invest over €164 million in targeted measures to achieve Ireland’s energy efficiency and renewable objectives in line with the Government’s National Mitigation Plan." Mr Donohue said that he will extend the vehicle registration tax (VRT) relief for hybrid vehicles until the end of 2019. But just a day after dire climate change warnings from international scientists, environmental groups have criticised the Government's decision not to increase carbon tax. The Taoiseach’s failure to ‘grasp the nettle in increasing the carbon tax', as he promised only two months ago, will help ensure that Ireland continues to zoom past its greenhouse gas reduction targets, according to Friends of the Irish Environment. Already nearly at the bottom of the European countries for failure to address carbon emissions, the Taoiseach's promise was supported by  the Citizens' Assembly, the ESRI, the Climate Change Advisory Council, and the government’s own Committee on Budgetary Oversight. Sadhbh O’Neill, spokesperson for Friends of the Irish Environment, said: "Fiscal instruments are vital tools in effective climate policy. Taxing pollution puts clean, renewable technologies on a level playing pitch with dirty fossil fuels and generates revenues which can be invested in low-carbon alternatives such as public transport. "Thus U-turn on carbon taxes means the only serious new climate policy measure under consideration is now off the table, a disaster for an already-failing climate policy regime. The Minister was myopic in calling Brexit the 'political challenge of a generation'. That role is reserved for climate change." Mícheál Fleming (27) spends up to two and a half hours a day in his car making the near 160km round trip from Dublin to his job in the pharmaceutical industry in Carlow. While the news that there won't be an increase in carbon tax is good for his pocket, he believes that it can only be a bad thing in the run. "I wonder where the thoughts were on greenhouse gases and climate change," said Mr Fleming. "My concern over climate change takes away from the fact that I won’t have to pay more in fuel costs. “I’d like to think people are planning for the future and planning for things to come but it doesn’t seem like that. “At times it can be easy not to think of the environment. But hopefully it won’t be too late when we do. "I’d prefer higher taxes on fuel or incentives to switch people over to electric vehicles." Mr Fleming acknowledges it’s expensive to run petrol or diesel cars but there is no incentive for people to switch to electric. "We will end up paying for it later, I assume there will come a time when it’s too late – we will have to make drastic changes. In my opinion, it would be better to have a gradual change rather than a shock to the system some years down the line." Online Editors 
