climate change
{ John von Radowitz London 
    October 10 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/climate-change-will-devastate-tropics-in-20-years-29649216.html }
Climate change could be devastating ecosystems and economies in the tropics within a generation, scientists have predicted. Researchers showed that current levels of greenhouse gas emissions would lead to a transformation of climate around the world as early as 2047. But in the most vulnerable regions the impact could be felt much sooner. Areas within the tropics could be experiencing unprecedented changes in temperature and rainfall in as little as two decades. The effect on sensitive tropical ecosystems could be catastrophic, it is claimed, with species being forced to move, rapidly adapt, or face extinction. Since the tropics house most of the world's population and contribute significantly to  global food supplies, the social and economic impact would also be serious and far-reaching. "The results shocked us," said lead researcher Dr Camilo Mora, from the University of Hawaii. "Regardless of the scenario, changes will be coming soon. "Within my generation, whatever climate we were used to will be a thing of the past." The scientists used 39 climate simulation models to look at the likely effects of global warming around the world.  They used the minimum and maximum temperatures from 1860 to 2005 to define the  historic bounds of climate  variability in each region. Projections over the next 100 years showed when the climate in any given location was expected to shift outside these limits. The critical turning point was defined as the "year of  climate departure". Under a "business-as-usual" scenario in which greenhouse gas emissions continued to rise at their present rate, the average region on Earth was predicted to experience a radically different climate by 2047. An alternative scenario that assumed greenhouse gas stabilisation forecast a global average "climate departure" in 2069. But the tropics, which are especially vulnerable to small changes in climate, were forecast to cross the climate departure point a decade earlier than anywhere else on Earth. EXTINCTIONS They also happen to be the poorest regions on Earth and those least able to cope with the effects of climate change, the researchers pointed out. "Ironically, these are the countries that are least responsible for climate change in the first place," said co-author Dr Ryan Longman, also from the University of Hawaii. Commenting on the findings, published in the journal 'Nature', US expert Dr Ken Caldeira from the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington DC said: "This work demonstrates that we are pushing the ecosystems of the world out of the environment in which they evolved into wholly new conditions that they may not be able to cope with," he said. "Extinctions are likely to result. Some ecosystems may be able to adapt, but for others, such as coral reefs, complete loss of not only individual species but their entire integrity is likely." Irish Independent 
