climate change
{ Miriam O'Callaghan 
    September 29 2019 06:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/miriam-ocallaghan-moment-to-save-our-planet-is-not-next-year-or-next-month-its-now-38543846.html }
The rain starts in 1939. At least, according to my father. He is seven, off with his dog down Sundays Well Avenue when he notices how, on the other side of the road it's raining heavily, but on theirs, it's bone dry.  A city slicker, deep rooted in west Cork, he used this childhood experience to teach his own children two things. Firstly, be keen observers of their surroundings. Secondly, you don't have to experience a phenomenon directly to know it's on its way.  It has served them well. Even in their most workaday observations they - and his grandchildren - have an eye for detail worthy of a spy, novelist or stalker.  In 2007, I read Six Degrees: Our Future on a Hotter Planet by Dr Mark Lynas. The scientist owes me a lake of artisan gin, because afterwards I bought his book by the armful, gifting it to family and friends. My father's response was, 'Well, what did ye expect by heating the atmosphere?' Look at the washing on the line. Warm air takes in the wet, holds it.  Working in politics at the time, I brought the book to the office. Given its carefully modelled predictions, at meetings I began to raise climate change, what we might do about it.  With a one-degree rise, Earth's "lungs" in the Amazon start COPD. At two, our soils are acidifying, Southern Europe scorched by heatwaves.  At three, Mr Big, Carrie Bradshaw in arms, is wading through Manhattan.  By four, the ice is gone, food production in crisis, Atlantic coast - that's us - lashed by gales. By five? Our world is "largely unrecognisable".  Humans - us again - are refugees seeking areas of "habitability". Presumably, we're breaking open the prepper tins, either sharing them with love-in Ed Sheeran singalongs, or guarding them with semi-automatic weaponry against orphaned senior infants, their faces scurvied, small scabby legs turning gangrenous.  Yes, Earth has been here before with a five-degree temperature rise. That was 55 million years ago, the era of the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum.  Fossils prove "we" existed then. Not as apes or humans but, as the science reporter Pete Spotts puts it, "tree-dwelling fuzzballs smaller than a mouse".  What six might feel like? Read Lynas's new edition, or open Revelation.  The "good" news is we need never get to six. The "bad" news is two degrees could be the "tipping point" where Earth takes over, and produces climate Armageddon on its own.  At the time, individually, colleagues were engaged by six degrees. Especially if they had children. But culturally and institutionally, for mainstream politics climate had the bang of peace, love and patchouli.  It was in the territory of consulting angels or spirit guides, or going out to the RDS to be hugged by that Amma one.  Dealing with climate change as something transforming how we live on this island and on Earth was as likely as Udaras na Gaeltachta issuing AI grants involving Sheikh Mohammed's Fainne-wearing stallions and Lady Gregory's venomous, fort-dwelling elves.  In short, climate was nothing to take seriously or urgently because it had nothing to do with Irish politics' magnificent and myopic obsession: the testosterone trinity of GDP, GNP, PPP and the economic holy of holies, growth.  Twelve years on? You don't have to be part of the "cult of climate catastrophists" to see that, so far, Lynas is on the money. Last Tuesday, the threat of 250,000 cubic metres of ice slipping off Mont Blanc into Italy saw authorities close roads and evacuate mountain huts. The glacier is monitored now 24-7.  Across the Alps, families who have guided for centuries are facing uncertain futures. To say nothing of a luxury writing-implement maker: for glamour, Mont Gris isn't a patch on Mont Blanc.  Last week the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported on the state of our oceans. The predictions are horrifying, but still not worse-case scenario.  The 217 billion tons of Greenland ice thundering into the North Atlantic in July alone are simply an amuse-bouche to the carrion and cadaver climate feast Mother Earth is laying out for us.  Faster melt in Antarctica means oceans are rising more and quicker than previously forecast. Our waters are heating up, acidifying, de-oxygenating.  Emissions? Even with immediate, dramatic cuts, a sea rise of between 29cms and 59cms is already "inevitable". No emission cuts at all? The rise could hit around 110cm.  The Guardian environment editor, Damian Carrington, cites earlier research on how these extra 10cms on previous predictions will shove an extra 10 million men, women and children into flood. Oughterard won't know what hit it. But not to be smug, Ireland is a tiny island facing the wrath of a souped-up Atlantic.  The IPCC is predicting some extreme coastal events going from centennial to annual. One of the report's authors, Zita Sebesvari, is quoted confirming how a separate, predicted sea rise of up to 238cms by 2100 "cannot be ruled out". At the UN last week, the Taoiseach announced the "big news"  of the end of oil exploration in Irish waters to cut emissions and  save our Earth. With a few exceptions, the MSM (mainstream media) obliged with the coveted positive headlines.  Social media did its thing with likes and noddies, the Twitterati skimming the news between updates on prorogation and dogs prostituted for human sex dying from their injuries.  Except - and with Mont Blanc, the ongoing droughts, floods, heatwaves, loss of species, it's a big except - Ireland's oil-exploration industry is doonchie. Negligible enough to be a homoeopathic trace. The Government news, then, is as productive as an enclosed order of nonagenarian nuns declaring themselves on sex strike for climate.  The IPCC report and the global rise of extreme phenomena mean we cannot continue with the media serially reporting and the public serially reading government announcements on climate.  Collectively, we have to start contrasting and juxtaposing what the politicians say on climate with what they do, because it's in the dangerous gap between the two that the life we want for our children and grandchildren is being lost. The oil-exploration "news" is a case in point. This, too, in the week of the climate strike - where young people made 5,000 protests in 157 countries on every continent - the International Council of Clean Transportation made a bleak announcement.  Greenhouse-gas emissions from flying are "worse than anyone thought". Potentially, more than one and a half times the UN predictions.  In the same week as the global emissions warning and the global emissions strike, the Taoiseach goes to Knock, not for a global emissions miracle but to announce with dazzling dissonance his pleasure at its current 800,000 passengers and "confidence" it would break the million.  The spin and headlines are saying Ireland will lead Europe on climate. For the actual doing, tot up your frequent-flyer miles. (See above). Not to be outdone by the Taoiseach in promoting air travel on the day the world was shouting stop, Dublin Chamber of Commerce was tweeting about progress on the new runway at Dublin Airport.  Apparently, it's essential for  the "economic growth of Dublin and Ireland". Except economic growth is 20th-century politics. Economic growth is 20th-century life. It is precisely the relentless pursuit of economic growth that's bringing six billion people, their flora and fauna to the brink of extinction, while generating lavish wealth for, comparatively, the infinitesimal few.  Put it like this. Go incognito, Google the word Amazon. The first result pages are for a company founded by Jeff Bezos, not for the Amazon rainforest humanity depends on for the air it breathes, and plants for life-saving drugs.  It's not just individual lives being data-fied, commodified. So too is life on Earth. Like Violetta Valery, we are dying of consumption.  To save our good life, our good Earth, we have a moment.  It is not next month or year or after an election buried under the mountain of cans-already-kicked. It's now.  As intelligent people, we know we cannot go on eating, heating, driving, flying, farming, shopping, consuming like we used to.  Individually, many are making changes, frequently at the behest of their children - less use of the car, planes, plastic.  More would like to change but they don't have choice. Therefore, it is not the private individual but government that must grasp and lead the quantum change that is required.  All bets are off. No tinkering. We need transformation. Transformation that is helpful, fair.  If politicians procrastinate for the sake of power - and through our votes we allow them - it is the poor, as always, who will pay the most, both immediately and in the future.  We are walking down Sundays Well Avenue. Above us, reader, the skies have opened. Sunday Independent 
