climate change
{  
    March 15 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/climate-change-to-flood-cork-dublin-and-galway-26270695.html }
AT LEAST 300 square kilometres of the country are likely to be permanently flooded by rising seas within 50 years as a result of devastating climate change. Our biggest cities - Dublin, Cork, Galway and Limerick - are most at risk from the effects of global warming which is set to change our landscape forever. The first ever study to directly address the implications for Ireland of a 2 degree celsius increase in average global temperatures paints a disturbing picture of what Ireland will look like in coming decades. "Significant climate change impacts are expected to occur in Ireland over the coming decades, even if the EU target of limiting global climate change to 2 degrees celsius is met," the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) report concludes. Planning and adaptation actions are needed to reduce the worst effects of unavoidable climate change in the coming decades. The report finds that our climate has already changed - and this is going to continue even at smaller temperature increases. And time is "rapidly running out," it warns. Summer temperatures will rise by as much as 3 degrees celsius, causing heat stress to humans and animals. And violent winter storms experienced once every 100 years will now become an annual event. "It may be too late to prevent a catastrophic sea level rise (of six metres)," it warns. The UN panel comprising more than 2,000 leading scientists worldwide recently set the two degrees increase as the point at which the planet moved into a potentially catastrophic spiral. The report, which will be published today discovers what the impact will be for the Irish population, health and the environment. It predicts severe summer droughts in the south east, frequent flooding, savage winter storms, and contaminated drinking supplies. Soybean, not currently grown here, is likely to replace potatoes as the main crop in many parts of the country along with corn maize. Significant climate changes are already happening in Ireland and will continue even below two degrees. According to the Implications of the EU Climate Protection Target for Ireland report we can expect: * Significant sea level rise, more intense storms and rainfall events. * Increased river and coastal flooding. * Drought in the summer in the east and south east, with increased need for irrigation of crops. * Drinking water affected by sea water. * Summer temperatures 2.5 degrees hotter, but they could increase by three degrees. * Autumn temperatures up 2.7 degrees. * Higher winter rainfall of between 11-17pc. * Wettest in the midlands. * Extinction of vulnerable species requiring cooler conditions such as the Arctic Char fish found in Irish lakes. * Depletion of fish stocks sensitive to even small changes in temperature. This would include cod. * Increased frequency of wild fires and pest infestation. * Low-lying places such as Louth and North Dublin, which have little or no protection from rising seas, could be badly affected by coastal erosion. * More than 300 square kilometres are at high risk of being inundated by flooding and coastal erosion, especially around our cities. Two degrees celsius is the point past which there would be "dangerous and irreversible impacts of climate change". This would lead to the loss of major ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica by 2100 and could severely impact the Gulfstream, the ocean current which gives Ireland its temperate climate. The research team was led by Dr John Sweeney, Dept of Geography, NUI Maynooth and one of the acknowledged foremost European climate change experts. The report highlights major changes that occurred in Ireland 8,000 years ago, when a relatively sudden influx of fresh water from northern Canada is considered to have temporarily switched of the Gulf Stream flow. This resulted in an abrupt and widespread cooling event in and around Ireland. Globally, millions would be at risk of displacement, hunger and disease, as a result of water shortages, coastal flooding and disruption to food production. Ger O'Leary, EPA programme manager, said the findings reinforced the need for strong action to be taken on greenhouse gas emissions reduction. However, it was not just a matter of reducing emissions, but also of adapting to those changes and impacts that are now unavoidable. "These must now be taken on board in planning and investments in infrastructure," said Mr O'Leary. Eamon Ryan, Green Party TD, said people expecting balmier summers forgot about the way natural systems were being changed.  Treacy Hogan 
