climate change
{ Dave Robbins 
    November 23 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/dave-robbins-rtes-climate-change-coverage-was-a-masterclass-38718697.html }
There is a group of hollow-eyed, twitchy people in our society. They are subject to violent mood swings, veering between euphoria and despair. They are the academics who study the media's coverage of climate change, and I am one of them. At times of UN climate conferences, or the release of major climate reports, we walk about, whistling and smiling at strangers. These are the times when the media covers climate change the most. But such times are rare: climate conferences happen once a year - there is one next month in Madrid - and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC )reports are published only every seven years or so. Mostly, we sit in our offices, watching the cursor blink on our computer and sending anguished emails to one another, asking: why is it that the media forgets about climate change except for one-off, dramatic events? Over 10 years up to 2016, media coverage of climate change in Ireland was less that 1pc of total news coverage. And reports tended to be about political advantage-seeking rather than any in-depth focus on the real issues of mitigation (reducing carbon emissions) and adaptation (preparing for the impacts of climate change). But right now, we cannot contain ourselves. Because last week, RTÉ devoted a whole seven days of programming to climate change across all its platforms. Yes, RTÉ. The same organisation whose coverage was described in a 2014 report as "low, sporadic and clustered around a small number of topical areas". And whose idea of covering climate change was to get people on 'Prime Time' to shout at each other about whether it was happening at all. The timing of Climate Week was impeccable. Just when the funding crisis at RTÉ had been laid bare, when redundancies and closures loomed, when orchestras and artworks were up for grabs, RTÉ provided a masterclass in public service broadcasting. See what you'll be missing, it seemed to say. Research into media treatments of climate change tells us that the framing of the issue is important if the public is to accept new information and engage with the issue. Framing is the inevitable process whereby some aspect of an issue is emphasised, whether it be the politics, economics, morality or opportunity angle. We also know that different audiences respond to different frames, and media must frame climate change in multiple ways across different channels to reach diverse audiences. So how did RTÉ do? The sequencing of the programmes was well thought-out. First up, 'Will Ireland Survive 2050', presented by Gerald Fleming of Met Éireann and Cara Augustenborg of UCD, deployed the disaster frame, essentially trying to jolt the audience into paying attention. Next came 'Hot Air', which looked at Ireland's carbon emissions and the challenges of reducing them. But crucially it also offered solutions. In one sequence, presenter Philip Boucher-Hayes talks to a woman who has cut her own turf for years and is not willing to stop. He is shown stacking sods with her on the bog. The visual messaging was subtle - we are down here with you, not lecturing you from above. Eventually, the woman concedes that she would listen to a scientist talking about the carbon cost of burning turf, but not to a politician. The final piece took place on Friday, with the Youth Assembly on Climate Change - 150 young people from 26 counties - being broadcast from the Dáil. So, over the course of the week, we travelled from disaster, to opportunity to hope. We hollow-eyed media researchers will be watching to see if climate change disappears from the media, as it usually does. We don't want to go back to the blinking cursor, the anguished emails and the tumbleweed. Irish Independent 
