climate change
{  
    November 11 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/blowing-hot-cold-26104021.html }
If you thought this week's floods were bad, wait until you see  what global warming could have in store for us. Myles McWeeney on a nightmare vision of a new Irish Ice Age As unfortunate householders through a large swathe of the Irish countryside, from Maynooth to Clonmel, tear up their sodden carpets and count the cost of last Monday's deluge, it will be of little comfort to them that delegates from just about every developed nation in the world were meeting in the Netherlands this week to discuss the weather. It was the sixth session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the meeting was called to assess the progress being made in attempts to slow down climate change and reduce the damage being done to the environment. Environmentalists and many scientists blame global warming for the recent bizarre worldwide weather patterns. They point the finger of blame firmly at carbon dioxide emissions, the gases being pumped out 24 hours a day from out from factory chimneys and millions of car exhaust pipes, as the main contributors of climate change. But an increasingly vociferous group of scientists are not so sure that we humans are wholly to blame for what is known as the greenhouse effect. It was James Hansen, the director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, who first blew the whistle on what he termed global warming. Back in 1988, he testified to a Senate Committee that, based on computer models and temperature measurements, he was 99 per cent sure that the human-caused greenhouse effect had kicked in, that it was radically altering our climate and, eventually, would render it uninhabitable. Worldwide, the press gleefully seized on this most apocalyptic of warnings. But the interesting thing is that Hansen has now pulled back from his dire vision. Two years ago, he wrote in a scientific journal: "The forces that drive long-term climate change are not known with accuracy sufficient to define future climate change." There's no doubt global warming is happening, but much of the new evidence suggests that what is happening is entirely natural. According to Dr David Evans of Glasgow University, the key to climate change lies in the long distant past. "If you take a deeper, geological perspective, you have to consider another culprit the last Ice Age," he says. The last Ice Age ended about 10,000 years ago, though there have been what are termed "little Ice Ages" since then, the most recent in the late 17th-century, when Ethiopia suffered from blizzards and crops failed regularly across the whole of Europe due to unseasonable freezing weather. So, the good news we humans may not be entirely to blame for the crazy weather. The bad news is that what is happening naturally to the world's climate at the moment could have a dreadful impact on Ireland and a whole lot sooner that you think. Run your finger around a classroom globe and you'll find that Ireland lies on the same latitude as Minsk in Russia, Calgary in Canada and the tip of the remote, inhospitable and frozen Aleutian Islands in Siberia. At this time of the year, every year, the people of Minsk are dealing with snowdrifts, the inhabitants of Calgary are certain that Christmas, as it always is, will be white, and anyone in the Aleutians is keeping a wary eye out for hungry polar bears. Basically, what's keeping us so relatively warm here in Ireland that urban foxes aren't forced to compete with polar bears for the contents of our dustbins is the Gulf Stream, that warm current of salty water that flows by the western seaboard of Ireland. But according to Richard Alley, one of the world's leading climatologists and professor of geo-sciences at Pennsylvania State University, there is absolutely no guarantee that the benign influence of the Gulf Stream will continue. It could be switched off as abruptly as an electric light. For a number of years, Dr Alley has been part of a team drilling deep into the Greenland ice pack and taking core samples of the ice. The Greenland ice pack contains a tenth of the world's fresh water and in Dr Alley's his forthcoming book, The Two-Mile Time Machine, he reveals that these two-mile long vertical cylinders of compacted ice provide a detailed history of the last 10,000 years of the earth's climatic history. The most significant of Alley's findings is that the weather over the past 10,000 years has actually been astonishingly stable, a fact that has allowed mankind to expand across the globe and move from being hunter-gatherers, using primitive tools, to an industrialised race capable of colonising space. There have been occasional blips little Ice Ages but nothing as dramatic as the time when the sea level dropped 400 feet and you could have strolled across the seabed from what, millennia later, would become Dublin to Holyhead. But the really scary evidence from Dr Alley's ice samples is that not only is the world's climate inherently unstable, but that large and potentially disastrous changes in climate can be triggered by relatively small events. This brings us back to the friendly Gulf Stream. Its waters are warmed in the blazing sun of the tropics and flow on the surface of the sea, north up past Florida and across the Atlantic, all the way to the Arctic. In the winter, the Gulf Stream's waters are what keeps us and most of northern Europe a lot warmer than Minsk or Calgary. When the waters have done their job and are sufficiently cooled, they sink, do a U-turn and flow back south to be warmed all over again. But, as we all know, there is no such thing as a perpetual motion machine, and the Gulf Stream has abruptly stopped flowing a number of times in the past, most recently about 8,400 years ago. "A great flood through Hudson Bay after the collapse of the remnants of the Canadian ice sheet triggered a sudden cooling," Dr Alley writes. "Temperatures dropped about 6 Celsius for a century in Greenland, with cold, dry and windy conditions spreading across at least much of the Northern Hemisphere. "Perhaps the climate is easier to kick into a new mode of operation when carbon dioxide, sunshine or other important parts of the system are changing. The climate then might be a bit like a drunken human when left alone it sits, but when forced to move, it staggers." What is even more worrying is that Alley suggests that such an event as the turning-off of the Gulf Stream can happen within a year or two. There is growing evidence that something very strange is happening in the Arctic. In August this year a Russian icebreaker was ploughing through unusually thin ice, bringing a party of tourists to the North Pole, when it suddenly sailed into a clear blue sea. No human beings have ever seen open sea at 90 degrees north before. One of the tourists was an American oceanographer, and he voiced the scientific community's concern at the sight: "There was a sense of alarm. Global warming was real, and we were seeing its effects for the first time that far north." According to the Goddard Institute for Space Studies, it would take no more than 0.25 per cent more fresh water flowing into the North Atlantic from melting glaciers to abruptly halt the Gulf Stream's northerly flow. This is scary stuff. While we human beings may not be entirely to blame for the sudden upsurge of floods, heatwaves, avalanches, blizzards and droughts that have marked the 1990s (the warmest decade since records began), we're almost certainly contributing to it. "We are now seeing really large variations in the weather and there is no way that these fluctuations are being caused only by warming after the little Ice Age," says Dr Mike Hulme of East Anglia University. "Only the input of greenhouse gases, and in particular carbon dioxide, can account for the things we have experienced recently." He added that sea levels around the world have already risen by a foot this century and will rise by one and three feet more. "It will take several hundred years for sea levels to stabilise, even if we could stop global warming today." If the seas continue to rise, an uncomfortable future looms for those who live by the coast. But should the Gulf Stream cease to flow, even that future may be impossible to sustain in Ireland, where freezing conditions would make it difficult to grow as much as a potato. Perhaps if each of us realised just how much carbon dioxide we pump into the atmosphere every time we do something as seemingly harmless as boil a kettle to make a cup of tea, drive the kids to school in the car or take a holiday in the Canaries, the world might become a little safer for everyone. The Two-Nile Time Machine: Ice Cores, Abrupt Climate Change and Our Future, by Richard B Alley, will be published by Princeton in December (st£15.95) 
