climate change
{  
    December 05 2012 01:39 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/world-news/rich-to-blame-for-climate-change-28943828.html }
Rich countries are to blame for climate change and should take the lead in a global climate pact, the head of the United Nations has said. On the sidelines of international climate talks in Qatar, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said it was "only fair and reasonable that the developed world should bear most of the responsibility" in fighting the gradual warming of the planet. His comments echoed the concerns of China and other developing countries, which say rich nations have a historical responsibility for global warming because their factories released carbon emissions into the atmosphere long before the climate effects were known. "The climate change phenomenon has been caused by the industrialisation of the developed world," Mr Ban said. "It's only fair and reasonable that the developed world should bear most of the responsibility." Many rich nations, including the US and European Union, say the division between developed and developing countries that has guided the two-decade-old climate process in the past no longer reflects the world today and is not helpful in dealing with the problem. Most of the emissions now come from the developing world, and China has overtaken the US to become the world's top carbon polluter. "Rich countries will need to do more than poor countries, that is clear," European Union climate commissioner Connie Hedegaard said. "But all of us will have to do the maximum we can because otherwise we can't cope with climate change." How to divide the burden of emissions cuts is at the core of discussions to create a new global climate treaty that would apply to all nations. The only binding pact so far, the Kyoto Protocol, only covers the emissions of industrialised countries. "Climate change is happening much, much faster than one would understand," he added. "The science has plainly made it clear: it is the human beings' behaviour which caused climate change, therefore the solution must come from us." Some scientists still question whether the warming seen in recent decades is due to human activities, such as carbon emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. Mr Ban said it was time to "prove wrong all these doubts on climate change." Global warming sceptic John Christy of the University of Alabama said Mr Ban's statement was "representative of a religion, not science." PA Media 
