climate change
{ Frank McGovern of the Environmental Protection Agency 
    November 02 2014 10:51 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/climate-change-warning-offers-a-final-opportunity-30712472.html }
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) fifth assessment report is the culmination of six years of work by the world's leading scientists across a range of diverse disciplines.  The report brings together and integrates the headline information contained in the three major volumes that have been published over the last 14 months. It also contains some of the starkest findings and statements ever provided by the IPCC. The evidence is unequivocal - climate change is happening, its impacts are evident worldwide and some of the recent changes are "unprecedented over decades to millennia". These include the widespread loss of glaciers and ice sheets, accelerating sea level rises and changes in weather patterns, including the occurrence of more weather extremes. Their impacts threaten global food production and are causing biodiversity loss. These impacts are projected to increase over the coming decades. It is only by the middle of this century that the results of the actions that we take today will be evident. Emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases are the main drivers of climate change. These are at historically high levels. If unabated there is a real risk of "severe, pervasive and irreversible impacts" during this century. The IPCC has identified carbon dioxide as the key culprit. It is the most destructive greenhouse gas. Once released into the atmosphere, a significant proportion of carbon dioxide is effectively there forever. Its global increase has been observed at the mountain peaks of Hawaii, over the frozen wastes of Antarctica and on the west coast of Galway. It is now at its highest level for at least 800,000 years. Scientists can readily deal with timescales of centuries, millennia, or longer. Recorded human history is but a blip in the eye of the average geologist who, thanks to science, is probably employed by a petrochemical company to drill into rock to recover the sunlight energy that was trapped eons ago and which is now oil or gas. The benefits of harvesting that energy are manifest all around us, while the consequences of using it are just emerging. It's only through science that we can understand what our reliance on fossil energy is doing to our planet. Science is central to our quality of life. It put men and women into space and on the moon. It allowed us to see our shared home from the outside; the blue and white orb with traces of green and all the other colours of the rainbow floating in the darkness of space. If enabled, it can also help solve the multiple challenges of climate change Yet science can be controversial. Just think of Galileo or Darwin. The great but largely forgotten John Tyndall, from Co Carlow, who first identified the greenhouse gases that regulate the global temperature and caused a riot in Belfast with his views on science. Today, the science behind our understanding of climate change has also been portrayed as controversial, or even dismissed by some commentators. In many cases, this seems only to serve to confuse the public and decision makers, rather than informing them or furthering scientific investigation. On such an important issue confusion is not what is needed. This is where the IPCC comes in. It is designed to take account of the full range of scientific theories and views, and to consider their strengths and weaknesses based on published scientific evidence. Then, in carefully worded reports, it provides an assessment of the state of knowledge of climate change. These reports are subjected to multiple reviews. Uniquely, they are signed off by world governments. In his visit to Dublin, Professor Ottmar Edenhofer, co-chair of the IPCC, pointed to a key difficulty for political systems focused on a five-year election cycle - to act to protect the interests of the next generation rather than this one. Not many leaders think or plan in terms of centuries or millennia. In addressing climate change this is just what our generation of leaders is being asked to do. However, the key message from the IPCC is not one of doom and gloom. It is one of choice and opportunity. Today's leaders in government, business and institutions have choices to make for the future. We are reaching many resource limits. The IPCC has explicitly quantified these for our climate system. The choice is whether to act effectively on this knowledge or not. There are significant costs either way. However, the opportunities and benefits of sustainable low carbon economic development and growth are evident. They are also multiple at local, regional and global levels. Next year, world governments meeting in Paris are expected to agree collective actions to address climate change. In the meantime, the full IPCC report is available for everybody to consider. Frank McGovern is chairman of the Environmental Protection Agency Irish Independent 
