climate change
{ Treacy Hogan 
    November 14 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ireland-named-and-shamed-over-climate-change-efforts-26355308.html }
IRELAND has been named and shamed as having one the worst records in combatting climate change. The embarrassing disclosure was made at a top level UN conference on world climate change in Nairobi, Kenya, yesterday. And it came on the day the European Union described climate change as "the gravest challenge facing mankind". According to a survey, out of 56 countries which produce most of the global warming emissions, Ireland is ranked 33 for its climate change performance. We may have the third wealthiest economy in the world, but we are doing very little to stop our emissions, it states. Sweden comes out tops for taking measures to cut down its damaging carbon dioxide emissions that are causing global warming at an alarming rate. Catastrophic The UK comes in at number two. But the survey shows that even best performing countries are not doing enough to stop catastrophic climate change. Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, China and the US respectively are the worst at stemming the slide towards global destruction, according to the table showing the survey results. Irish emissions come mainly from car exhausts, agriculture and industry. Embattled US president George W Bush has blocked attempts to cut his country's emissions, citing the impact on the economy. If the US, the biggest polluter in the world, were to exercise an international climate policy stance as progressive as that of the UK, it would move up more than 30 places, according to the survey. The data was published as Environment Minister Dick Roche travelled to the conference to represent Ireland for a week of talks on how to prevent catastrophic climate change that could threaten the planet in coming decades. Most countries, including Ireland, have failed to honour their commitments to reduce emissions. The survey, conducted by a German environmental organisation, Germanwatch, examined the 56 countries that account for 90pc of all greenhouse gas production. Challenge Matthias Duwe, Director of Climate Action Europe, expressed grave concern at the data. "If climate change protection were an Olympic Discipline, no country would make it to the medal ranks," he said. The survey clearly showed that current efforts to stop dangerous climate change are insufficient. The calculations took into account emissions levels, emissions trends and climate policy. About one quarter of the energy consumed in Sweden in 2003 came from renewable sources - more than four times as much as the EU average of 6pc, according to the EU statistics. In Stockholm, one quarter of city buses run on ethanol or biogas. The country with the worst ranking was Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter. Duwe said the country's policies generally block attempts to reduce greenhouse gases. Scientists blame the past century's 0.6 degree Celsius rise in average global temperatures at least in part on the accumulation of carbon dioxide, methane and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the atmosphere - byproducts of power. 
