climate change
{ Paul Melia 
    October 29 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/firms-face-fine-threat-for-failure-to-lower-emissions-26577199.html }
LOCAL authorities and transport companies that fail to meet targets on lowering their greenhouse gas emissions face being fined under a proposed climate change law. And a Dail committee has said the Taoiseach of the day must take personal responsibility for ensuring that binding targets to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide produced by burning fossil fuels, such as oil, coal and gas, are met. The Dail Committee on Climate Change and Energy Security yesterday published draft legislation which aims to reduce Ireland's reliance on imported fossil fuels and transform itself into a green economy. It urged the Government to introduce a climate change law before the crucial December meeting of the UN, where it is hoped the leaders of 192 countries will agree targets to combat global warming. Taoiseach Brian Cowen will today meet with EU heads of state to hammer out a deal on how much funding will be provided by the union to avoid the worst effects of climate change. The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that unless action is taken to curb emissions, global temperatures will rise by a further 1.8C - 4C by 2100. Such a rise in temperatures would devastate large parts of the world and result in more flooding and droughts for Ireland. The all-party committee unanimously backed the introduction of the climate-change law, and yesterday published its own draft legislation which included the setting of five-year greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, including a long- term 2050 target. It also calls for:  Challenge Committee member Liz McManus of Labour, who drafted the law, said climate change was the "great moral challenge of our generation". "This is like a war effort and if we don't have leadership from the top I don't think we can do it. I would never criticise the Environment Minister for his commitment, but it's (climate change) like a tanker, he can't turn it around by himself." Oxfam Ireland warned that one million people are forced to flee their homes every year because of weather-related events caused by global warming. It called on the Government to help secure funding for the most vulnerable countries at today's EU summit. Irish Independent 
