climate change
{ John Sweeney 
    January 12 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/we-need-to-manage-climate-change-much-better-26003510.html }
EVENTS both at home and abroad over the past few days since Christmas have reminded us again how vulnerable we are as a society to the whims of nature. Far from insulating ourselves from hazards such as storm, rain, floods etc, it would seem the pressures of making a living in modern society may even result in greater exposure to such problems than in the past. We flock to the coast; we build in hazardous areas avoided by our predecessors; we think it will never happen to us. The harsh lesson of south-east Asia, which has touched families from Ireland to Sumatra is that we are now a truly global community, no part of which is completely immune from the extreme wrath of natural hazards anywhere on the planet. Perhaps our perception of increased risk is misplaced, influenced as it is by our short term memories. Certainly the climatologists tell us we cannot blame global warming for individual events, and need a longer-term perspective to disentangle natural from human causes of climate change. This is vital to do. Perhaps we cannot attribute individual floods and storms in Ireland to climate change as yet. But this does not absolve us from the responsibility of applying the precautionary principle. The overall picture is clear - we need to manage risk better, not least in Ireland, and we need to plan more rigorously for the long term safety both of our planet and our local environments. The projected changes in climate for Ireland suggest that increased wetness will characterise the winters of the future, especially in the west. Engineering calculations of the 100-year flood or once-in-a-century rainfall become unsafe in a situation where climate is changing. There is an urgent need to address how extremes of Irish climate are likely to change in the future. Certainly the events of early 2005 do not contradict a picture of greater flood hazard. After a relatively benign end to 2004 January has reminded us that the Atlantic is a hostile place in winter with wind and rain a near constant occurrence. Reacting to such events though is not enough. Now is the time to start making hard choices about where future housing should not go, about what defence measures should be placed on key urban areas on flood prone rivers, about how Irish society should plan its future water management. Climate change has more than one dimension, because while too much water may be a feature of winters in the West, too little may become the problem in the East. Per capita water resources are currently 10 times higher west of the Shannon than in Leinster, yet it is in the East the lion's share of population growth is earmarked for, and will occur given the laxity of regional planning policies. This is one of the reasons why a meaningful National Spatial Policy is an imperative. What price will we pay as a society for infrastructure and environmental protection in 2055 for not getting it right in 2005? Perhaps we are already paying for our failures in the past. At an international level Ireland has a schizophrenic profile - an island trading on its clean, green image yet currently one of the EU's worst delinquents when it comes to curbing greenhouse gas emissions. We are not making the hard choices. The Kyoto Protocol becomes a legally binding treaty within six weeks. The days of pleading poverty to seek derogations from such agreements are now behind Ireland as a nation. Yesterday's weather map shows an intense storm generating hurricane-force winds, located off the north-west coast of Ireland, 
writes Gerald Mills. This is the latest in a sequence of stormy weather that included an intense, short-lived and small scale event that caused damage on New Year's day in Clonee, Co. Meath. How unusual are these events and do they indicate that the Irish climate is changing? The short answer is that while they are unusual, they are not exceptional events. Moreover, they are not, by themselves, evidence of climate change. Storms are a normal feature of Irish weather. At regular intervals depressions (areas of low pressure) form off the east coast of North America and travel eastwards. As these depressions approach Europe they tend to veer north-eastward taking a route between Ireland and Iceland. However, on occasion they pass over, or to the south of, Ireland. Such a storm in November last year caused extensive flooding along the south-coast. The location of Ireland places it within the path of this Atlantic storm belt. Moreover, the winds generated by these storms pass over an extensive and relatively smooth ocean surface before crossing the Irish coast. The wind-speed experienced in Ireland is a result of both storm intensity (measured by its central pressure) and closeness to the storm centre. Not surprisingly, Ireland is a windy place and the windiest locations are toward the north and west coasts, closest to the main path of these storms. Does this suggest that the climate is changing? Most scientists believe that, as a result of human activities (particularly the use of fossil fuels like oil), the climate of the world is changing. The effect of these activities has been, over the last 250 years, to increase the proportion of greenhouse gases (like carbon dioxide) in the atmosphere.Increasing greenhouse gases is expected to result in global warming and there is evidence (such as retreating ice caps) that this is occurring. There are expected consequences such as sea-level rise that will make coastal communities vulnerable. However, many other consequences are still topics of scientific study and debate. For example, some scientists believe that as the atmosphere stores more energy, storms will become both more frequent and intense. However, there is little empirical evidence to support this. John Sweeney, Department of Geography, NUI Maynooth and Gerald Mills, Department of Geography, UCD. 
