climate change
{ Louise Gray 
    September 17 2009 02:15 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/climate-change-activists-dump-manure-on-jeremy-clarksons-lawn-26566927.html }
Climate change activists have dumped manure on Jeremy Clarkson's lawn in protest at the Top Gear presenter's treatment of the environment. The seven activists, dressed as suffragettes, spread two bin-bag loads of fresh horse dung outside the television presenter's manor house in the affluent town of Chipping Norton in the Cotswolds. The personal delivery was brought in by a van fuelled by used chip-fat oil and accompanied by a banner bearing the message ‘This is what you’re landing us in’. The environmentalists, from direct action group Climate Rush, said the stunt was in protest at Mr Clarkson's promotion of polluting cars that will ultimately lead to global warming and "land us all in [manure]" Tamsin Omond, a granddaughter of a baronet who founded Climate Rush, insisted she was a fan of Top Gear – but Mr Clarkson was taking an irresponsible attitude to climate change by encouraging people to continue to drive cars that emit emissions. “I love Jeremy. I love fast cars. I love progress," she said. "But I learnt some things and those things terrify me. I learnt that climate change will make my future unrecognisable. I know that I’ll not have the same choices that Jeremy has now. If we keep on loving the fossil-fuelled lifestyle then by the time I hit 49 the world will be too busy coping with the impact of climate change to bother about how big an engine is possible. I’m the biggest libertarian of them all – I’m dumping dung at Clarkson’s gates so he might understand that his attitude will land us all in [it].” Mr Clarkson has ridiculed the effects of climate change. He once said: “Let’s just stop and think for a moment what the consequences might be. Switzerland loses its skiing resorts? The beach in Miami is washed away? North Carolina gets knocked over by a hurricane? Anything bothering you yet?” The self confessed "petrol head" also recently drove to the Arctic, emitting 1.7 tonnes of carbon along the way, again upsetting environmentalists. Miss Omond, a Cambridge graduate who has hit the headlines before for scaling the House of Commons and protesting at Heathrow, said more "climate criminals" would be targeted in the future. Climate Rush are currently touring the country in a horse and cart to raise awareness of the need to tackle climate change and are collecting their "emissions" along the way. Another sack of manure will be used to protest against other companies or individuals who they believe are standing in the way of action on climate change. The Clarksons were not home and not available for comment. ©Telegraph.co.uk 
