climate change
{ Simon Bourke 
    October 11 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/striking-back-the-group-rebelling-against-the-threat-of-extinction-38571461.html }
On May 9 of this year Ireland became just the second country in the world to declare a climate and biodiversity emergency.  Although a largely symbolic gesture, the move appeared to signal a new era of intent, a sea change for a country which, as recently as last December, was ranked the worst in Europe when it came to taking action against climate change. On May 27 the Department of Communications, Climate Action and Environment granted permission for a Chinese oil company to drill in the Porcupine Basin which is located approximately 232km off the south coast of Ireland. It also gave consent to the placement of a temporary well head and associated infrastructure on the seabed.  To Eoin Walker, and the rest of Wexford's Extinction Rebellion group these two contrasting actions sum up our Government's attitude to climate change. 'In Ireland with climate change we're at the point where the thought is: it won't be felt for a while and/or it might lose us some money. We need to get to the point where it's seen as an actual threat to our survival, that it's not just something coming down the pipeline,' says Eoin. Founded in October 2018, Extinction Rebellion is an international movement which uses non-violent civil disobedience in an attempt to halt mass extinction and minimise the risk of social collapse. Originating in London, the movement has spread worldwide, across Europe, to Australia, South America, Africa, and to Wexford. Aged just 20, Eoin is the group's Regional Coordinator and our host for a talk entitled 'Climate Change: Heading for Extinction'. It's a no-holds barred discussion which draws comparisons between our current plight and that of those who lived and died during the Second World War. That it is delivered by the youngest man in the room makes it all the more jarring. 'I've been interested in this for ages,' said Eoin, who's from New Ross and is studying Energy Systems Engineering in Galway. 'I remember being 10 years old and my dad saying something about climate change and how people still don't believe it and I thought "that's really worrying".'  'Then I went vegetarian and when I went to college I ended up going vegan. Everything was about how small I could make my footprint. When I happened upon Extinction Rebellion I was like, "oh, wow, finally people are getting together in a big group".' Although their numbers are still relatively small, the Wexford group, which was founded by Anne-Marie Kelly, are active and can be found in the Bullring every second Saturday. There, its members provide information on Extinction Rebellion for anyone with a passing interest. Yet, according to another member of the group, Dave Sparks, the general public are already fully aware of the extent of the issue we are facing. 'When we have had a presence within the town there's a much wider set of people who have connected with us, people instinctively have a feel for the scale of the issue, they know the climate is changing, they know there is a scientific consensus. The message we have is there is an urgency and a need for action, for real change, and fundamental change,' Dave said. However, Adam McLoughlin, who is also a part of the Wexford group, believes many of those engaging with Extinction Rebellion simply don't have the time or the resources to fully commit to tackling the issue of our times. 'People are worried about other things. There's a housing crisis, there's not many jobs around, and when you don't have a home you have that existential threat which goes through your mind.' Explaining the reasons for his own involvement, Adam underlined that, despite contrary views, the root cause of climate change cannot be disputed. 'Some people don't believe it. That's why I've started to get involved, because of all the stupid conspiracy theories, a lot of companies are funding right-wing media to say there's some confusion as to what's causing this. But there's no confusion. Humans are causing this thing.' And as Eoin's talk continued, and the gravity of the situation becomes more apparent, the WWII comparisons seem entirely apt. There may not be sirens warning of an air strike, but we are in a state of emergency. 'We have to act like it's an emergency,' Eoin said. 'We have, as the Taoiseach put it, a symbolic emergency status for the climate, not a real emergency status. But what we want is for the government to actually take emergency action. This is the same as we saw with WWII. That's the scale we're talking.' The group has three primary demands: firstly, that our Government must tell the truth by declaring a climate and ecological emergency, working with other institutions to communicate the urgency for change. That it must act now to halt biodiversity loss and reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2025. And it must create and be led by the decisions of a Citizens' Assembly on climate and ecological justice. To help convince those in the power of the seriousness of this issue, the members of Wexford's Extinction Rebellion have joined their allies from around the rest of the country for Rebellion Week which began yesterday and runs until Sunday, October 13.  Aiming to bring to bring our capital to a halt for an entire week, the group took to the streets of Dublin for a mass, non-violent protest in an event which is being replicated throughout the world. 'We're blockading an area of central Dublin, disrupting business as usual, getting in the way of the corporations, the banks, the politicians,' Eoin said. 'The capitals are where the money is made. It's happening in London, Paris, Berlin, they're all connected, they all have stock markets. It won't be felt in just one country, it'll be worldwide. 'Our main strategy is to cause as disruption at peak times in order to maximise impact. To get media attention, catch public attention. Use the opportunity to explain the situation and gain support,' he explains. And should their actions draw the attention of the Gardaí, there is a plan in place for that too.  'Arrest is part of our strategy. I've done legal observer training, so if someone gets arrested I'll know who they are, when it happened, what the guard's number is, where the station is, whether the person knows their rights. And we'll have someone waiting outside. We'll contact the person's family,' Eoin said. Furthermore, power in numbers will ensure that any arrests will only be a short-term fix to an ongoing, all-encompassing problem. 'There's only so much drunk-tanks in Dublin that can be filled, once they're full the guards won't know what to do.  'There will be nowhere to put these people. It will get us the attention, it'll stop being a problem for a couple of hours and be a problem for a week, where the traffic is stopped, and the city is blocked.' Stressing that everything they do is rooted in a non-violent approach, Eoin said the ultimate aim is to create Ireland's first week-long festival, a revolution with a party-atmosphere, one where everyone is invited.  'Just arrive and don't worry about being unskilled or uneducated,' he said. 'If you can chop carrots you're in, if you can dance like no-one's watching you're in, if you can play a musical instrument you're in.  'It's a rebellion, it's very emotional and charged but it's non-violent and we're really going for a festival atmosphere, so there's centres for chilling out, relaxing, yoga, family zones for people with kids up, it's going to be the first week-long festival in Ireland.' Gorey Guardian 
