climate change
{ Paul Melia Environment Correspondent 
    September 23 2014 01:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/greenhouse-gas-emissions-rise-to-levels-unprecedented-in-800000-years-30608837.html }
GREENHOUSE gas emissions have risen to levels “unprecedented in 800,000 years”, an UN  Climate Change summit of world leaders has been told. Rajendra K Pachuari, chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), has told heads of state including Taoiseach Enda Kenny that unless action is taken to reduce emissions, there will be a “steady rise” in the death toll among the world’s poorest. Mr Kenny is among more than 100 global leaders who will set out their commitments to tackling climate change at the summit this afternoon. It is the largest gathering of heads of state since 2009. Mr Kenny is expected to speak at around 4.30pm today. But Mr Pachuari, who oversees the work on climate change overseen by hundreds of scientists across the globe, said there was now “abundant evidence” that the climate was changing due to emissions from energy, transport and agriculture. The findings are contained in the fifth assessment report (AR5) on climate change, published earlier this year. “Three key messages have emerged from the report,” he said. “One, human influence on the climate system is clear and is clearly growing. Two, we must act quickly and decisively if we want to avoid increasingly destructive outcomes. Three, we have the means to limit climate change and build a better future. “The atmosphere and oceans have warmed, the amounts of snow and ice have diminished, and sea level has risen. Each of the last three decades have been successively warmer at Earth’s surface than any preceding decade since 1850. Our time to take action is running out.” Scientists believe that warming must be kept within a 2C rise, beyond which irreversible climate change is inevitable. Food and water shortages, increased poverty, extreme droughts and floods and the collapse in ice sheets which will result in major cities being flooded are already forecast, even if temperature rises are kept to within 2C. Mr Pachuari said that investment in renewable energy, more energy efficiency and stopping deforestation would help reduce the impact. “We are told that limiting climate change will be too expensive, it will not. But wait until you get the bill for inaction. There are costs of taking action, but they are nothing compared to the cost of inaction. “It comes down to a matter of choice. We can continue along our existing path and face dire consequences, or we can listen to the voice of science and resolve to act before it’s too late.” Today, independent.ie publishes a series of reports on the impact that climate change is having on the poorest communities in Kenya. Online Editors 
