climate change
{ Opinion - Our View 
    December 19 2015 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/climate-change-not-the-only-cause-of-irelands-flooding-34289576.html }
The torrential rains that have battered Ireland for much of the last week, leaving vast swathes of the country under water, have understandably led to much discussion on climate change and how it is impacting Ireland. This focus on climate change is to be expected coming as it does on the heels of the 'landmark' climate pact signed in Paris over the weekend. There is little doubt that climate change is playing a role in the freak weather events we have seen in Ireland in recent years, though it should be said that, given how frequent these events have become, the term 'freak' no longer seems appropriate. Climate change, and its impact on global weather systems, would certainly appear to be a factor in Ireland's weather woes, but it is most certainly not the only major cause of the floods seen in the wake of Storm Desmond. The other major feature is Ireland's planning system and the historic lack of attention, particularly in the boom years, paid to the impact of buildings on the environment. It is surely no coincidence that many of the homes and estates across the country that were worst hit by the recent floods were built on flood planes. In several cases it has emerged that the respective planning authorities had been warned, well in advance, that these houses and developments, which now find themselves under several feet of water, were to be built on flood planes. Despite these warnings, permission was granted and we are now seeing the filthy aftermath of these ill-advised decisions washing through hundreds of families' living rooms. An individual knowingly building their own home on a flood-plain must accept responsibility should the worst happen. However, someone who buys a house built by a third party, be it a one-off or in an estate, should be entitled to expect that the local council did all it could to ensure the development was built to safe and proper standards. An expectation that your home would not regularly be under water is, one would think, surely reasonable. No wonder then that the political classes are so happy that the focus remains on climate change rather than Ireland's notoriously ill-equipped planning system - a system whose failures were also brought vividly to life by last week's RTÉ investigates documentary. It is much easier, and legally safer, for councils and the government to blame flooding on climate change, an act of God or otherwise, rather than admit that their own planning processes and decisions were a factor in floods that caused millions in damages. That climate change is now being discussed seriously is certainly a good thing but we shouldn't allow all the back slapping politicians to distract us from other serious issues closer to home. Issues, like planning, that we can deal with far more easily and much sooner than global warming. Similarly while the climate change pact is being hailed as one of the most significant international agreements ever signed it is not without its faults. The pact is hugely ambitious and getting agreement from 196 countries was never going to be easy but whether it will actually work remains to be seen. Ireland will, as always, do its bit but it will be many years before we know if this new global coalition has succeeded. The Paris accords could, as has been touted, turn the tide in the fight against climate change or, like Kyoto in 1997, it could be just the latest in a line of modest successes. We shall have to wait and see. In a week that 'The Notorious' himself, Conor McGregor dominated world headlines both ahead of an after his Las Vegas UFC success, his fellow countrymen made sure they became notorious in their own special way. The age old cliché of the 'drunken Irish' was kept alive and kicking when an Aer Lingus flight set for Vegas had to be grounded when a fight broke out between Irish passengers on board. It is reported that less than half an hour into the flight there rowdiness started which ended a physical altercation and the plane being grounded. While speculation that those involved were en route to attend the fight has not been confirmed, one only needed to do the quickest of searches online to see the jolly Irish stepping out in Vegas in all their drunken glory. Why are so many sporting events marred by drunken fools waving Irish flags and making a show of the nation? While I have no interest in MMA or the high profile fights, I can appreciate McGregor's success and dedication and it is good to see somebody representing Ireland in a positive way, sending the message that hard work pays off. However, the so called fans just used the occasion as an excuse to go to Vegas on the lash before Christmas. Simply because an Irish person was centre stage on that fight night, is not justification for Irish spectators to drink themselves into a stupor, to be beamed across the globe doing such. The same thing happened a few years ago when Irish emigrants in Australia were criticised for constantly over indulging and causing trouble and we never learn from it. We are known all over the world for so many positive things - our writers and artists, sporting heroes, culture and wonderful food produce among other things but the one recurring negative association is the drinking. We can never shake it off and every so often the cliché is strengthened even more by occasions such as the McGregor success, which people use an excuse. It is disappointing that international successes by Irish people are celebrated by others by drinking to excess and it couldn't be more timely that in the same minimum alcohol unit pricing plans were announce. Perhaps it will help us to stop being notorious for the wrong reasons. Kerryman 
