climate change
{ Roger Boyes 
    January 08 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/climate-change-to-kill-a-million-species-26019631.html }
A QUARTER of land animals and plants could be extinct in 50 years as a result of climate  change over the next half century, according to the most comprehensive analysis of its  kind. Climate change has already produced shifts in the distribution of some species, such as amphibians, grasses, migratory birds and butterflies. Now, scientists predict that changes over the next half century will eventually reduce the variety of life by making a quarter of land animals and plants extinct, unless greenhouse gas emissions are drastically reduced. For some species there will no longer be anywhere with a suitable climate for them to survive; in other cases they may be unable to reach distant regions where the climate is suitable. Other species may survive elsewhere only to face new threats, notably if the new area is covered by crops or urban sprawl. Overall, the threat is at least as great and, arguably, greater than that caused by the destruction of habitats, according to a study published in Nature by the team of 19 scientists, led by Prof Chris Thomas of Leeds University. And, if anything, the gloomy predictions could be over-optimistic, given the complex impact of climate change, said Alan Pounds of the Golden Toad Laboratory for Preservation, Costa Rica. The team studied six regions rich in biodiversity - representing one fifth of the planet's land area - and projected the future distributions of 1,103 plants, mammals, birds, reptiles, frogs, butterflies and other invertebrates. The study employed computer models to simulate the ways species' ranges are expected to move in response to changing temperatures and climatic conditions under three different climate change scenarios. The ability of animals and plants to move to new areas was also considered, using two alternatives - one where species could not spread at all, the other assuming "unlimited" or successful movement. The study found that 15pc to 37pc of all species in these regions could be driven to extinction by the climate change that is likely to occur between now and 2050. The scientists believe that extinctions due to climate change are also likely to occur elsewhere. "If the projections can be extrapolated globally, and to other groups of land animals and plants, our analyses suggest that well over a million species could be threatened with extinction," said Prof Thomas. Lee Hannah, of Conservation International in Washington, a co-author, said: "This study makes clear that climate change is the biggest new extinction threat. (© Daily Telegraph, London) 
