climate change
{  
    September 13 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/council-launches-climate-action-plan-for-fingal-38481342.html }
Fingal County Council has launched its Climate Change Action Plan 2019-2024 at County Hall in Swords. The final Plan contains 133 actions that are on-going or planned within the Council, covering five key action areas - Energy and Buildings, Transport, Flood Resilience, Nature-Based Solutions and Resource Management. Four key targets have been identified, including a 33% improvement in the council's energy efficiency by 2020. The local authority is also aiming for a 2.40% reduction in the council's greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Thirdly, the plan seeks to make Fingal a climate resilient region and finally, it seeks to  actively engage and inform citizens on climate change Following an extensive six-week public consultation process in February and March of this year, almost 170 people attended four events across Fingal and over 120 submissions were received. The Plan was adopted by the Elected members in May. Speaking at the launch, Mayor of Fingal, Cllr Eoghan O'Brien, said: 'I am delighted to launch the Climate Change Action Plan which sets out a range of actions and measures which will help to make Fingal climate resilient.  'Fingal County Council will set out to actively inform and engage the public, through a range of innovative programmes and partnerships and, where possible, facilitate bottom-up, community-led solutions.' Interim Chief Executive of Fingal County Council, AnnMarie Farrelly, said: 'Climate Change is one of the most pressing challenges facing local governments today.  'Fingal County Council is committed to continued climate action, across the key areas of adaptation, mitigation and public engagement.  The council will continue to work with key stakeholders to influence and support carbon reduction initiatives across the County." The Climate Change Action Plan is a joint initiative between the four Dublin local authorities, the Dublin Metropolitan Climate Action Regional Office and Codema, the Dublin energy agency. The actions in the Plan will be regularly monitored and updated by a dedicated Climate Action Team, working in conjunction with all Council Departments. To read the Fingal County Council Climate Change Action Plan 2019-2024 in its entirety, visit  http://www.fingal.ie/environment/climatechange/ Fingal Independent 
