climate change
{ Alec Russell 
    May 03 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/us-report-admits-pollution-to-blame-for-climate-26382724.html }
AN American government report on climate change has undermined a key claim made by hardliners in the Bush Administration, and by sceptics, who have long disputed a link between carbon emissions and global warming. The study by the federal Climate Change Science Programme concluded that the atmosphere was growing warmer. There was "clear evidence of human influences". Its critical finding was that there was no major difference between rates of warming on the Earth's surface and in the atmosphere. Previously, sceptics had seized on satellite measurements suggesting the atmosphere was not heating up, to bolster their argument that there was no link between climate change and emissions due to humans. But the report found that "there is no longer a discrepancy in the rate of global average temperature increase for the surface compared with higher levels in the atmosphere". It concluded that human emissions, mainly due to coal and oil, were driving change in the global climate. "The observed patterns of change over the past 50 years cannot be explained by natural processes alone," it said. The White House said the report showed that President George W Bush's decision to spend nearly $2bn (?1.58bn) a year on climate monitoring and research was justified. However, officials cautioned that it was only the first of 21 assessments by the Climate Change Science Programme, which was set up in 2002 to tackle "unresolved questions". They said the administration remained committed to studying the other questions and to using voluntary rather than compulsory means to slow carbon emissions growth. Lee Lane, executive director of the Climate Policy Centre, which calls for curbs on emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, said the debate was not resolved, but this was an important moment. "Obviously there are still really big uncertainties in climate science, about how soon to expect warming, about what its consequences may be," he said. "But it narrows the range of the uncertainty. The report was unequivocal in saying that it is very difficult to aver that man-made climate change is not an important component of what is going on and what is showing up in the temperature record." Mr Lane said the fact that the report was by a US body, not an international one, might make Bush administration officials take it more seriously. He said it also undercut the perception that the administration was repressing climate science and "bowdlerising" scientific results. "It shrinks the credibility of claims that the administration is trying to fiddle the science." The White House was acutely embarrassed last year when it emerged that one of its aides on environmental issues had been rewriting official documents to play down links between climate change and man-made emissions. America and Australia are the only two developed countries to have rejected the Kyoto protocol, which demands curbs on emissions. (© Daily Telegraph, London) 
