climate change
{ Letters to the Editor 
    October 10 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/letters-to-the-editor-dont-repeat-the-mistakes-of-australia-on-carbon-tax-38580476.html }
A carbon tax hike sounds bad. But doing nothing costs more. Australia had a carbon tax for about a year in 2012. In that year, emissions declined 7pc and our Clean Energy Finance Corporation earned a 5pc net profit in its first six months, investing in new technology companies, bringing jobs and new technology to make solar, wind and heat-transfer pumps cheaper, and reduce electricity and gas usage and costs. After a scare campaign, the new government repealed the carbon tax and I got refunded a measly $6.50 for the year.  Families got an average of $20-70, depending on their usage – a lot less than the scare campaign told Australians they were paying.  And to add insult to injury, according to the Australian government’s own figures since then, “prices for households increased on average by 72pc for electricity and 54pc for gas”. And our emissions are increasing year on year. Don’t make Australia’s mistake by being taken advantage of by vested interests. Ireland can and should transition. Climate change is here. Let’s get ahead of the curve. Embrace ‘Operation Energy Transformation Ireland’. It’s the sort of big problem that can bring out the best in Irish genius. Pauline Bleach  Wolli Creek, NSW, Australia Budget left us all nuts over the lack of a ‘few Smarties’  In the Budget we were told that there will be ‘no chocolates’, with the promise of a ‘few Smarties’. In the end we got peanuts. Billy O’Riordan Clonmel, Co Tipperary ‘Cult’ wisdom on climate change based on guesswork Spotting the title of your article, ‘My dad jokes climate change doesn’t matter – teens teaching their parents how to be Green’ (Irish Independent, October 8), reminded me instantly of the famous Mark Twain quip: “At 17, he could scarcely endure his father, the old gentleman was so ignorant. At 25, he was astonished at the improvement his father had made in the last eight years.”   A certain wisdom comes with age. I have noticed no discernible change in the weather in the last 50-plus years and the Met Éireann data on the CSO website confirms this. I also value critical thinking.  As CO2 concentrations rise, the associated greenhouse effect from it decreases and this CO2-related energy increase amounts only to circa 1pc of the solar energy input. This ‘tiny stubby tail simply does not wag the big dog’ unless the planet’s climatic systems are hopelessly unstable, which they aren’t. Furthermore, until the heat and mass flows through clouds are understood, these climate models will continue solely to be algorithms based on guesswork. This agenda is now one based solely on beliefs, not analysis, in which those on soapboxes are telling us how we have to change dramatically our way of life, pay more taxes, etc.  According to Mary Robinson, as I do not share her beliefs, I am evil. This wisdom screams ‘cult’ and reminds me of the phrase popular back in the 1980s: “Don’t drink the Kool-Aid.” Pat Swords Glenageary, Co Dublin Rural Ireland will vent its wrath at the next election It is abundantly clear that the posh boys of Fine Gael have little or no understanding of the challenges facing rural Ireland, from the beef crisis to the complete lack of tangible support and preparation for climate action measures and Brexit. Rural Ireland is facing decimation with the onslaught of the fallout from Brexit, which will affect all farming sectors.  All farming organisations have sung in unison about the disappointment and worry Budget 2020 has brought.  The Fine Gael rural vote will surely collapse and Fianna Fáil will also face tough questions on the door steps. Yes, it was allowing the Government time and space to deal with Brexit, but sometimes the road to hell is paved with good intentions.  Killian Brennan Camolin, Co Wexford Judge’s flogging order of boy does not sit comfortably I happened on a court report for Kells, Co Meath, featured in the ‘Irish Press’ dated  October 1936.  A young boy of 11 years of age appeared on a charge of theft. The judge directed that the boy’s step-father should flog the child, in the presence of a garda.  The extent of the flogging to ensure that the (quote) repulsive little liar would be unable to sit down for a few days. Hopefully the judge was able to sit comfortably with his own conscience thereafter. Tom Gilsenan Beaumont, Dublin 9 Irish Independent 
