climate change
{ Paul Melia, Environment Editor 
    December 14 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/north-america/humans-have-changed-worlds-climate-for-the-first-time-36407199.html }
Record global temperatures last year, including extreme heatwaves over Asia, would not have been possible without human-induced climate change. A major report published in the 'Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society' (BAMS) says that for the first time, scientists have determined that extreme events could not have occurred without increases in greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel use. The Earth's surface temperatures in 2016 were the warmest since modern record-keeping began in 1880, and the 'Explaining Extreme Events in 2016 from a Climate Perspective' says that human influence was found to have increased the intensity and likelihood of heat events around the world. Editor-in-chief of BAMS Jeff Rosenfeld said humanity had "made a new climate". "This report marks a fundamental change," he said. "For years, scientists have known humans are changing the risk of some extremes, but finding multiple extreme events that weren't even possible without human influence makes clear that we're experiencing new weather, because we've made a new climate." The report comes after French President Emmanuel Macron warned this week that the world was "losing the battle" against climate change. Speaking at the 'One Planet' summit which saw 225 investment funds, managing more than €22tn in assets, pledge to pile pressure on the largest corporate emitters to curb pollution, he said the world was "nowhere near" being able to keep temperature rises to less than 2C, with the planet heading for an average increase of 3.5C by mid-century. The BAMS report, which features research from 116 scientists across 18 countries, highlights how climate change is already having an impact.  Researchers used modelling and historic records to determine if, and by how much, climate change may have influenced extreme events. It found that climate change had pushed some heat events "beyond the bounds of natural variability alone".  On global heat, the report said average surface temperatures were "only possible due to substantial centennial-scale anthropogenic warming". A deadly heatwave in Thailand which "devastated crops and broke records for energy usage", would "not have occurred in the natural climate". Ocean temperatures in the Gulf of Alaska, Bering Sea and off northern Australia were the most elevated in 35 years of satellite records, leading to massive bleaching of the Great Barrier Reef and one of the largest harmful algal blooms ever off the Alaska shore.  The report also points to how the risk of extreme events is heightened from climate change, saying the prospect of dry conditions in western North America rose five-fold, which exacerbated wildfires during 2016; while extreme rains are 10 times more likely today than in 1961. Irish Independent 
