climate change
{ Treacy HoganEnvironment Correspondent 
    September 07 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/climate-plan-author-blasts-cold-shoulder-25965271.html }
THE author of the national climate change strategy blasted the Government yesterday for "pulling the legs" from under the plans. Dr John Sweeney, head of the geography department at NUI Maynooth and one of the leading climate change experts in Europe, said a range of measures promised in the document published by the Government in October, 2000, to cut climate changing emissions had been abandoned. He said the giant Moneypoint power plant which supplies most of the country's electricity and is the biggest source of emissions has not switched to gas, no brakes have been put on long distance commuting and the National Spatial Strategy has been "undermined". Dr Sweeney added that the political will was not there to tackle the problem here. "We are not putting a stop to developments which are car dependent. In fact we are encouraging them," he said. "I don't think the political will is there." He told the Environment Ireland 2005 conference in Dublin yesterday, organised by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of the Environment, that climate change was already happening in Ireland. Predicting more extreme flooding events with greater frequency in future, Dr Sweeney urged local authorities to "climate-proof" developments to prevent disasters. "We have to climate proof policies at a local level," he said. The acute problems of loss of property had been demonstrated over the past few days in the New Orleans devastation due to Hurricane Katrina, he added. There was an "underestimation of vulnerability" even in developed countries. "The climate is changing very rapidly," he said. "The evidence has been underpinned by dramatic landscape changes in marginal parts of the world." Dr Sweeney warned that as temperatures rose due to climate change, there was an increasing risk of a catastrophic event. "When climate hazards strike the bones of society come through," he added. "That has been demonstrated in the last few days. "We have to ask do we have the political will and are we prepared to undertake the political decisions and the lifestyle changes. If we don't act now maybe the writing is on the wall." By 2080 some three and a half billion faced the risk of water shortages around the world. And he predicted it was highly likely that the next UN assessment of climate change would point to very radical temperature and rainfall changes, in excess of those already predicted. 
