climate change
{ Kim Bielenberg 
    December 04 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/education/one-world-week-its-time-to-learn-how-to-save-the-planet-38752384.html }
They are planting trees, highlighting human trafficking, focusing on the gender pay gap and upcycling old socks to make toys. These are just some of the activities in schools to mark One World Week, which runs until Sunday. The theme this year is Climate Action and the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. This week, there is a special focus on those goals in up to 270 second-level schools under the patronage of education and training boards (ETBs). The UN's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development provides a blueprint for future peace and prosperity. At its heart are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), an international action plan covering issues such as poverty, hunger, climate change, clean water and sanitation. This week, ETB schools are focusing on SDGs across different subject areas. As part of an initiative called Take 1, the schools are integrating one of the goals into one class in each subject across the Junior Cycle curriculum.    The schools or individual teachers are picking an SDG and focusing on that. The initiative is seen as a way of channelling  growing concern about climate change into a greater awareness of interrelated global issues such as poverty and inequality. The initiative is being spearheaded by Valerie Lewis, Educational Policy and Development Officer with Education and Training Boards Ireland. "The student voice on concerns surrounding sustainability and specifically climate has grown stronger, and we need to consider how we purposely address these issues in our classrooms," says Lewis. She points out there has been a lot of focus on the marches over climate change and hopes the initiative will equip students to talk coherently about the issues, and get a sense of what they can do in the long term. Climate change and sustainable development is already covered in the curriculum in subject areas such as CSPE, Science or Geography. But Lewis believes that SDGs can be covered across all subjects, including those where their relevance may not be obvious, including Art, languages and Home Economics. "If you are an art teacher, you might be looking at something like weaving and materials that could be recycled or reused," she says. At Desmond College in Newcastle West, Co Limerick, the SDGs are being embedded in the curriculum across subjects this week. Students at the school are already involved in environmental activism. Caroline O'Grady, Science teacher and Junior Cycle co-ordinator, says: "I have been teaching for 20 years and environmental issues have now come to the fore. Because of the Greta Thunberg effect, you no longer teach about climate change any more. You go in and you discuss it, because they are already very aware of it. "I deal with climate change in second year, and the students are passionate about it - they can't get away from it and it is very real. Before, I used to teach about changing weather patterns, but now they can see it and they are living through it. They are aware of droughts and floods." The student council in Desmond College introduced an initiative to ban the use of single-use plastic bottles in the school. Water fountains were installed and each student was given a reusable bottle. "The reusable bottles have been very successful and as a result, we have reduced plastic waste," says O'Grady. At Desmond College, the focus this week is on Sustainable Development Goal number 13: 'Take urgent action to combat climate change'. This week, the school is extending its tree-planting programme. "We have planted native broadleaf trees, including oak, ash and elm. We are making an area at the back of our pitch into a little woodland and hope to take students down there for ecology walks." Second year students have recently done research projects on climate change and sustainability with PowerPoint presentations and posters. "We looked at the causes, the effects and the solutions," says O'Grady. "Students have already learned about the problem. This week, they are learning about simple actions we can take here in our own lives in school every day." In Home Economics classes, they are focusing on upcycling - using old materials to make new products. This week, they were making stuffed toys out of old socks. "The students are finding a new use for things that would otherwise be thrown out," says O'Grady. Earlier this week, Desmond College was visited by one of its past pupils, Jack O'Connor, the UN Youth Delegate for Ireland.  Two years ago, he won the Science for Development Award at the BT Young Scientist Exhibition with his fellow pupil Diarmuid Curtin for his innovative handheld seed planter. The metal planter was designed to save time, labour, and bring precision to seed planting in developing countries. Since he won the award, O'Connor has refined the design to make it more user-friendly and it can now be made from bamboo. As Ireland's UN Youth Delegate, O'Connor says he sees his role as a bridge between the United Nations and young people. He says he is glad schools are supporting learning about the UN Sustainable Development Goals and responding to student voices on climate change. "You can see that there is a widespread movement happening," he says. "People are no longer asking for change - they are demanding change." At Abbey Community College, Ferrybank, Co Waterford, the focus is on SDG number eight: 'Decent work and economic growth'.  Among the topics being covered are development aid, the gender pay gap and human trafficking. "There is definitely greater social and environmental awareness among students," says deputy principal Helen O'Connor.   "Part of it is down to the power of social media. It can have a positive impact on the students. It is easier for students to have a voice." Irish Independent 
