climate change
{ Joseph Curtin 
    April 20 2014 10:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/joseph-curtin-why-we-must-be-global-leader-in-climate-change-challenge-30203238.html }
THE latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which is the collective endeavour of hundreds of scientists, confirmed what we already knew: the world faces a serious and urgent challenge to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions responsible for global warming.  One new message came through: it is not the economics that prevents us from acting. The IPPC found that the additional cost of making the necessary investments would shave only a tiny fraction off annual global economic growth. This is based on the assumption that investing in low-carbon technologies is slightly more expensive in some cases over the lifetime of the investment, at least for now. This small cost, however, needs to be considered against the considerable benefits of action, including enhanced energy security, improving air quality, or boosting efficiency, competitiveness and innovation, all of which can arise from meeting climate targets. The problem is that we sometimes focus only on cost, and risk missing out on potential benefits and economic opportunities. This is a challenge in the way we think about the climate action in Ireland, but less so in the clean, green and rich European countries who lead the way on mitigating emissions. For example, most people seem to believe that renewables cost Ireland a fortune. In fact, the opposite is the case. We spend twice as much subsidising peat as we do on wind energy. Thanks to EU policy, wind is 30pc cheaper than it was five years ago. Mass deployment of wind energy drives down the cost of the technology (economies of scale in economic terms), making that it more competitive with fossil fuel technologies. The solar success story is even more dramatic. Solar power is now 80pc cheaper than five years ago, and is competitive against fossil fuels in many markets. It's scarcely believable that China installed enough solar electricity to power three Irelands last year, more than it invested in coal. What's the key lesson for Ireland in all of this? The first one is on ambition. Sweden has the most ambitious climate targets of any country, and yet it is the most competitive economy in Europe, and among the fastest growing. This has been achieved by using efficient economic instruments like a carbon tax – which incentivises everyone to use energy a little more carefully – but also by capitalising on opportunities. For example, one of Sweden's many success stories is the almost complete decarbonising of its building sector since 1990. Sweden pioneered the development of heat pumps – from concept right through to market deployment. It is now reaping significant economic rewards as one of the largest exporters of heat pumps in Europe. Sweden has set itself the challenge of a fossil-fuel independent transport fleet by 2030. We can see a similar success with Denmark and its early development and deployment of wind turbines. Yes, Ireland has the most challenging target in the EU. We need to reduce emissions from buildings, transport and agriculture by 20pc by 2020. It is clear from research by the Institute of International and European Affairs (IIEA), and many others, that a wide-scale programme of retrofitting buildings can go a long way to meeting the 2020 target. The energy savings alone pay for the upfront investment costs. A major initiative would also create thousands of jobs, increase tax revenue for government, reduce dependence on imported energy and boost the value of homes. The Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland (SEAI) is helping to drive the market for retrofit, but barriers to investment need far more urgent attention. For example, the Government needs to work with banks and energy companies to unlock more investment capital, because few homeowners and businesses have the spare cash lying around to cover the upfront cost. Arguably the biggest challenge, but also the biggest opportunity for Ireland, is in climate-smart agriculture. Ireland is a beef and dairy superpower, and has an opportunity to continue expanding output. But 40pc of the emissions to which our EU target applies come from agriculture, and this sector therefore is in the spotlight. Globally, emissions from agriculture are rising because of growing demand for food, but ironically climate change will undermine productivity eventually, and more people will go hungry. This is a huge problem for the world to solve, and in the IIEA we believe that Ireland can be the global leader in addressing this challenge. We can lever our natural and competitive advantages to develop the knowledge, the technologies, techniques and practices here that will be required to solve this global challenge. This requires a change in mindset and political leadership from the top down. In the IIEA we want to engage with agri-food leaders on how best to capitalise on this opportunity. Doing so effectively is in Ireland's enlightened self-interest. JOSEPH CURTIN IS SENIOR RESEARCH FELLOW AT THE INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AND EUROPEAN AFFAIRS . HE HAS PREVIOUSLY WORKED FOR THE OECD ASSESSING THE CLIMATE POLICIES OF COUNTRIES ACROSS EUROPE Irish Independent 
