climate change
{  
    January 29 2009 02:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/climate-change-five-minutes-to-midnight-27562278.html }
Talk about the weather to anybody of a certain generation and you're guaranteed to get a nostalgic reference to the days when summers were idyllic, winters were shockers and snow was the real thing - not the light dusting of white confetti the modern generation thinks is a blizzard. My own childhood days were filled with references to when I was born - The Year of the Big Snow in 1947. Actually I was born on December 31, 1946 and was about two months old when the blizzard started at the end of the following February, but who's counting! During the following years, I was constantly reminded of what an auspicious year it was, weather-wise. Apparently, the severe spell lasted well into March, and I was often told in awed tones about the amount of snow that still remained on the ground, right up to St. Patrick's Day. The trouble started with a snowfall, accompanied by wind, on the last Friday in February, falling on and off until the Monday when the mother and father of a blizzard started up and continued non-stop for the next twenty-four hours. A vicious easterly wind complicated the situation, racing across the countryside and creating gigantic drifts. The blizzard cut off roads and rail lines and traffic - or for what passed for traffic in those days - was brought to a halt. Massive snow-drifts, some up to fifteen feet high were common in many areas. I remember being told that Lough Gill froze over and people could walk across it. Then there was an account of a band gathering in the middle of a frozen lake in Cavan whose members had to run for their lives when cracks began to appear under their feet. Another story was about the bus to Strandhill being halted by the weather and subsequently being covered by the snow. I was told that in some places, snowdrifts piled up to roof level and as the weather grew worse people began to face genuine privation, especially farmers who were running out of fodder to feed their stock. All sorts of stories were rife. It was reported that a coffin somewhere in the country had to be carried on the shoulders of the young men of the district to a cemetery, a distance of three miles, while a number of youths cut a way through the snowdrifts in front of the procession. In another instance, the remains had to be carried through nine fields on a donkey and cart to the hearse which couldn't get near the house because the lane had been blocked with snow. Neighbours of the deceased cut a path half a mile long for the cart on which the coffin was taken. Cattle and horses had to be brought to rivers or wells for a drink because of the severe frost, and a daily task was to break the ice to get at the water. Frozen lakes were a great novelty for the young and not so young. On some lakes, ice up to eighteen inches thick was reported. Towards the end of March, the blizzard came to an end but a thaw didn't set in until April. In any event, those who lived through the phenomenon have never forgotten it, and that winter has earned a place in Irish folklore along with another weather wonder - The Year of the Big Wind. What brought on these thoughts was the recent publication of a book called 'Five Minutes to Midnight? Ireland and Climate' Change by Dr. Kieran Hickey, which puts The Year of the Big Snow into the ha'penny place. It's all about the likely impact global warming will have on this country, and if even half of it comes to pass, Ireland will be a very different country from what it is today. There are some people who believe all the doom and gloom about climate change and global warming is the biggest load of nonsense ever perpetrated on the human race. They simply don't believe a word of it. On the other hand, there is an equally vociferous body of opinion which thinks that what lies ahead is the greatest challenge ever to face mankind. All over the world, international conferences, consultations, symposiums, workshops and brain-storming sessions gather to discuss the problem and try to come up with possible solutions. Scientists are busy at work studying reports, issuing dire warnings and producing enough paperwork to cause global warming in its own right. All point to an apocalypse unless we change our ways. Millions of people have made an effort and altered their lifestyles but the issue simply won't go away Which brings me to 'Five Minutes to Midnight' by Dr. Hickey who says climate change will transform Ireland, bringing scorching summers, parched lawns, water rationing and escalating rates of skin cancer. There will be fewer, but bigger and more deadly storms; muggy, wet winters, flooded streets and sodden lawns. He goes on: 'The character of our cities will change. So will the look and feel of the countryside around them. Native plants and animals will be lost. Salmon will disappear from our rivers, cod from our seas and potatoes from our fields. Exotic new crops and species will replace them. Beaches, farms and golf links will be swept away as large swathes of the coastline are redrawn. In time, beleaguered and uninsurable seaside villages, power stations and even city centres may have to be abandoned.' This may sound like science fiction. Unfortunately, it is not. As Dr Hickey explains in this excellent and at times shocking new book, these disturbing scenarios are not flights of fancy. They are based on the careful projection of current trends, and up-to-date climatological research. Hickey begins with the fundamentals. Is climate change really happening? Are we causing it? The answer to both these questions is an emphatic yes. An intriguing examination of the potential causes - sun spots, volcanic eruptions, CO2 emissions - follows. The current changes are then put in context, with a dramatic account of the history of climate change in Ireland over the last two thousand years. The heart of the book, however, is an exploration of the ways in which Ireland's temperatures, rainfall, sea-level and storms are likely to alter over the coming years. This makes fascinating reading. Enormous changes in our weather patterns can be expected. By the end of the century, Belfast will be as warm as Brighton is today. Dublin will enjoy the latitudinal advantages of Paris. Cork will - in climatic terms - find itself transplanted to somewhere on the Loire, encouraging us all in the direction of healthier and more 'continental' lifestyles. Milder winters are likely to mean fewer respiratory illness, such as asthma and bronchitis. However, we will experience more infectious diseases. Hay fever sufferers can expect a longer summer allergy season. Hickey points out that the sea devours about 750 acres of Ireland annually. This rate of loss will accelerate, jeopardising a whole range of important coastal features, particularly along Ireland's 'soft' east coast. The number of so-called superstorms is set to double by the end of the century. Downpours delivering two and a half inches of rain in one day, which used to occur every fifty years, may occur every ten years. The book concludes by examining the 'doomsday scenarios' - runaway global warming, runaway sea-level rise, and the ' turning off' of the Gulf Stream. It's a chilling prospect. Is government doing enough to avert the more calamitous of these outcomes? Are we as individuals doing enough? On these questions, Dr Hickey's conclusions are essentially positive. We can influence events, he argues. But if we are to do so we must act decisively, and act now. He's encouraged by the ways in which Irish industry has adapted to the carbon economy. This is likely to be worth 500 billion dollars annually by 2050, and will create tens of thousands of new Irish jobs. He's also impressed by the efforts that a range of companies, including the book's sponsors, the ESB and NIE, are making to accelerate the switch to renewable energy sources, thus reducing carbon emissions. This is a tremendous introduction to a complex subject. Its strength is its firm grounding in the local. Every country will be affected differently by climate change. 'Five Minutes to Midnight?' sets out what will happen to Ireland, for the very first time. The result is something of a wake-up call - not least for our political masters. One of the most thought-provoking of the book's many fascinating diagrams is a picture of what Ireland would look like if the polar ice caps melted. The familiar outline is gone - blasted into a thousand pieces. Only scattered shards remain. This map should hang in the office of every politician in the country. 'Five Minutes to Midnight? Ireland and climate Change', by Dr Kieran Hickey, of the National University of Ireland, Galway, is published by White Row Press, Belfast, at £9.95 / €12.50. www.whiterowpress.com It contains 144 pages, notes, bibliography, index, and sixty colour and B&W illustrations. 
