climate change
{  
    November 04 2010 04:12 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/the-environments-future-is-in-our-hands-climate-for-change-on-tour-27575186.html }
Change.ie the Power of One and Sligo County Council / Sligo Borough Council are holding a free talk on climate change in the Clarion Hotel (Canis Major), Ballinode, Sligo on Wed 10th November 2010 from 8 - 9pm. The talk is called "Climate for Change" and is part of a nationwide tour to each county council in the country. The EPA, SEAI and DoEHLG have teamed up with Gavin Harte to stage the events. Gavin has been a high profile spokesperson on environmental and sustainability issues in Ireland for many years. Speaking at the launch of the tour Gavin Harte said "For most of us climate change is often confusing and contradictory. For every argument on the size of the problem, its seriousness and its cause, there seems to be another voice declaring the exact opposite." "Now, for the first time the world's leading scientists are united in the scientific evidence for climate change. The big question is, are the people of Ireland ready for the challenge?". John Gormley, Minister for the Environment, Heritage and Local Government welcomed the roadshow and said "Climate change is the biggest challenge facing humanity in the 21st century and each of us has to decide how to respond. We're delighted that Gavin is taking his unique style and irrepressible optimism on the road to give people what they need to be able to understand the climate challenge better." Gavin was the founder and developer of Ireland's first eco-village in Cloughjordan Co Tipperary. He has worked as an educator, a TV presenter and a musician and was national director of An Taisce. With RTE he presented the very popular travel series "Across the Line", backpacking overland from Dublin to Darwin on a budget of £25 a day. Climate for Change is an exciting mix of photographs, video clips, and animations which documents the enormous influence which human activity is having on our planets climate, the extremely serious impacts these are likely to have on all of us and what we need to do about it in order to help combat climate change. 
