climate change
{ By PA Reporters 
    September 20 2019 02:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/and-finally/hundreds-of-thousands-turn-out-across-uk-for-global-climate-strike-38517926.html }
Hundreds of thousands of people led by school children have taken part in protests across the UK, calling for urgent action to tackle climate change. Children and students walked out of lessons and lectures and were joined by parents, campaigners and workers as part of global climate strikes which look set to be the largest environmental protests in history. Organisers claim that around 100,000 people have taken part in a rally in central London, with more than 20,000 thought to have marched in Edinburgh and 10,000 in Brighton as crowds flocked on to the streets around the UK.  
 In London, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn told the youngsters in the crowd that “you and a whole generation have brought the issue centre stage and I am absolutely delighted about that”. He criticised US President Donald Trump for his failure to act on climate change and had a message for Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro that he wanted to work with him to preserve and protect the Amazon rainforest. Green Party politician Caroline Lucas was also present. She told the PA news agency: “It feels like there is a real uprising. It feels like there is a real sense from young people in particular that they simply won’t wait any longer. “It is their future that is at stake and our generation, my generation is responsible for not having done nearly enough to address that. “They have enormous moral authority when they tell us that.” One of the protesters, Jessica Ahmed, 16, from Barnet, north London, said: “School is important but so is my future,” and called on the Government to acknowledge the severity of the climate crisis. 
 
Close
 Protesters sit down in the street in front of King’s College in Cambridge (Joe Giddens/PA) PA Wire/PA Images / “If politicians were taking the appropriate action we need and had been taking this action a long time ago when it was recognised the world was changing in a negative way, then I would not have to be skipping school.” Although the protest was peaceful, the Met police made several arrests when a group blocked traffic on Lambeth Bridge in the later afternoon. Seven people were arrested for public order offences for breaching conditions set on the protest, while one man was arrested under the Explosives Act for releasing a flare on the bridge. In Belfast, organisers put the turnout at between 3,000 and 4,000, with young people taking over the Corn Market area of the city centre and staging a “mass die-in”, before marching towards City Hall. Thousands of protesters, including hundreds of children, many wearing school uniform, gathered in Birmingham’s Victoria Square before marching through nearby streets. 
 Change is coming, whether you like it or not. 1,4 million striking today in Germany alone. #ClimateStrike https://t.co/TeLvDx6Veg Some of Friday’s first protests were held in Australia, where an estimated 300,000 people gathered at more than 100 rallies calling for action to guard against climate change. Demonstrations were also being held across parts of Asia, Africa and in European cities ahead of rallies in the US, as part of a movement inspired by teenage activist Greta Thunberg which has snowballed into mass protests around the world. Campaign group 350.org estimates that around four million people took part across the globe, with protesters in Germany accounting for 1.4 million of the total. According to 350.org’s figures, in Europe alone there were 1,500 events in 38 different countries. Some ministers and school leaders spoke out against pupils missing school to take part in the protests, but London Mayor Sadiq Khan, Green Party MP Caroline Lucas and Liberal Democrat leader Jo Swinson were among those backing the walkout for the Youth Strike 4 Climate campaign. 
 
Close
 Protesters in London (Gareth Fuller/PA) PA Wire/PA Images / Some companies were actively helping staff take part by closing stores and offices, including Patagonia and Ben & Jerry’s, whose sign on its central London shop on Wardour Street read: “Gone striking. Because ya know, the planet.” The Metropolitan Police said two adults had been arrested on The Strand in central London – where XR Universities, an Extinction Rebellion group, are holding a protest – in breach of an order dictating protesters must gather in a specific place in Westminster. The protests come ahead of a climate summit at the UN next week convened by secretary-general Antonio Guterres to urge countries to up their climate efforts. Much steeper measures are needed across the globe to prevent temperature rises of more than 1.5C (2.7F) or 2C (3.6F) to avoid the worst impacts of climate change.  
 As if to underline the urgency, as people took to the streets of the UK, the mercury climbed to well above what is normal for the time of year. The UK Student Climate Network (UKSCN) said more than 200 events were taking place across the UK, with, for the first time, adults being encouraged to join the youngsters as they strike. UKSCN wants politicians to bring in a Green New Deal to cut the UK’s emissions to zero and improve lives, changes to education to equip youngsters to deal with the climate crisis, and votes at 16 to give them a voice. 
 A truly staggering number of #ClimateStrike protesters marching through Edinburgh@PA pic.twitter.com/FEG7OiVTl1 Among the many trade unions throwing their weight behind the strikes are the TUC Congress, the University and College Union and Unite, while environmental campaigners, aid agencies and faith groups joined the protests. PA Media 
