climate change
{  
    December 03 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/this-may-be-our-last-chance-to-save-the-world-26200412.html }
This week delegates from 166 countries are meeting in the Japanese city of Kyoto. Their objective: to halt global warming.This week delegates from 166 nations gather in the Japanese city of Kyoto to determine the future of the earth's climate. Just as my teenage son is now wrestling with the events of 1914, so his children and grandchildren living in a very different and less hospitable world may ask with even more justification: ``How could they have let it happen ?'' The meeting is, in all sobriety, that important. If the world decides at Kyoto to take strong action against the pollution that causes global warming, climate change may well be kept at a manageable level. If they do not, the world's top scientists warn, our descendants will suffer the consequences for centuries, even millennia, to come. Over 2,500 of the world's leading experts on the official Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) concluded last year that global warming is already happening. This year, another 1,500 top scientists, including 104 of the 138 living Nobel Prize winners, warned of its ``potentially devastating consequences''. To be sure, a relatively few scientists disagree: that is the nature of science. But in 28 years spent covering the environment, I have never known so much consensus on any single issue. But the first signs of change are appearing. This year, the Met experts say, will be the hottest on this side of the Atlantic since records began. The warmest years ever have all occurred in the 1990s, the 16 hottest since 1980. Vast ice sheets off Antarctica are melting, causing atlases to be redrawn. Glaciers in the Alps are smaller than at any time in the last 5,000 years, while Alpine flowers are ``climbing the mountains'' by a foot a year to escape the rising heat. Tropical diseases are spreading into once colder climes. Sea levels are rising and the cost of storm damage, which indicates a warmer, more turbulent climate, has multiplied six-fold so far this decade. If Kyoto fails, the scientists say, the world will heat up faster than at any time in the past 10,000 years, changing the stable, benign climate which allowed civilisation to develop. Sir Robert May, chief scientific adviser to the British Government, issued a report in October indicating that our weather was about to become rather nippy as a result of the slowing down of the gulf stream. At present, the movement of heat northwards from sunnier climes keeps us relatively warm, but as global warming, caused by excessive man-made carbon dioxide interferes with this mechanism, our winters will become colder. In another climatological camp, there is an equally illustrious group that predicts an Irish weather pattern for the next century similar to that in the Loire Valley in France with warmer Summers and milder Winters. Ireland would have the type of wine-growing climate that attracted successive kings of France to the Loire region, but some of the more elegant parts of Dublin 4 might disappear into the sea as a result of flooding. Last week's Met Office report from London warned of 50 million people dying of starvation and 200 million being ``seriously endangered'' by floods. Whole island nations would disappear, the US mid-West, which helps feed 100 nations, is likely to be hit by drought, and the North Pole would melt. And, instead of changing gradually, the climate may spring abrupt, nasty surprises. One such-revealed is that the Gulf Stream could weaken or stop, giving Ireland and Britain the climate of Spitzbergen. Evidence from similar ``dips,'' recorded deep in the Arctic ice-sheet suggest the process could take less than a decade. There is, however, a school of scientific thought that believes that the global warming phenomenon is just a load of hot air produced by lentil-eating prophets of environmental doom who are just looking for another cause after the nuclear war failed to destroy the planet. Dr John Sweeney, climatologist at St Patrick's College, Maynooth has observed that the Irish weather is becoming warmer and he disputes claims that we are likely to suffer Arctic conditions in the next century, because of changes in the Gulf Stream. `I believe that is very unlikely. The consensus among most climatologists is that the oceanic response would be much too sluggish and it would take a very long time. When you look at historical incidences of warming in other periods, there is no evidence that there was a switch in the Gulf Stream. There is more likely to be dramatic warming than dramatic cooling.'' Irish Summers will become 1.5 degrees C hotter by the middle of the next century, predicts Dr Sweeney. Our climate will become more like that of central France, but there will be a risk of flooding as a result of rising sea levels. There is mounting evidence that global warming is already happening, according to the Maynooth climatologist. Ten of the warmest years since records began in the late 17 th century have occurred in the last seventeen years. This year may turn out to be the warmest on record. ``There is a possibility that this increase in temperatures in Ireland could be as a result of natural variations, but this possibility is diminishing with each passing year,'' says Dr Sweeney. But there may be a downside. We might have hotter summers, but rainfall is likely to increase by 20% in the winter in certain parts of the country leading to greater flood risks. One area of growing consensus among experts is that emissions of excessive carbon dioxide are having warming effects, according to Denis Fitzgerald, Head of the Climatology Division at Met Eireann. ``There is definitely a ferment of ideas at the moment about predicting long term weather patterns and the effects of global warming on Irish weather. The picture is quite confusing and one cannot be sure what the effects on the Gulf Stream will be. One has to look at the role of the ocean, the Sun and activity under the sea.'' ``The most striking thing about our weather is the number of times records have been broken in the past twenty years and this has been a very mild year. We cannot sure whether this is natural or manmade. You have to keep an open mind.'' There is consensus, however, that if the climate becomes hostile it will take not years, not even decades, but centuries to reverse the damage. And once the sea level starts to rise it cannot be slowed down in less than a few millennia. Other in-built time-lags shield us from our actions. The present warming is a result of past pollution; the bill for our current splurge is yet to come in. So the fossil fuel industries responsible for most of the emissions claim that cause and effect have not been proven, beyond doubt. That may be true, but wilfully misses the point. Both people and governments prudently insure against risks; most defence spending is against the risk of war, rather than to fight a certain conflict. The industry lobbyists, flying to Kyoto this week would no doubt be furious if their planes had not been maintained because there was no absolute proof that they would crash. In climate change, not only are the risks of inaction enormous but so are the advantages of cutting pollution. The fuel industries dispute this too, claiming that clean-up costs would cripple economies. A statement by 2,000 economists, including another clutch of Nobel Prize winners, exploded that argument this year. In fact, the reverse is true. About one-third of the world's energy is wasted and could be saved with the carbon dioxide that burning it emits using existing technologies at little or net cost, while another third could be saved with new ones. Families and industries would pay lower fuel bulls and other air pollutants, such as those that exacerbate asthma, would fall sharply. And there would be more jobs, because for example, insulating lofts employs many more people than running power stations. Combating global warming could enhance economic growth and the countries which move first will benefit the most. In Britain Tony Blair is holding a seminar at Number 10 this week to make the same point to captains of industry. And an American study shows that the US could cut its carbon dioxide emissions by 10% while saving each family $530 (£310) and creating some 800,000 jobs a year. If all this only deepens the angry bafflement of the future student, so will the broken promises of the 1992 Earth Summit, when the rich countries promised to return carbon dioxide emissions to 1990 levels by the year 2000. Instead, they have already risen by 12%. The US now says it will only meet this target in around 2010. The EU, by contrast, wants a 15% by that date, Britain says it will reduce by 20% by then, whatever happens in Kyoto, while the small island states, facing obliteration form the rising seas, want the same reduction five years sooner. Even this pales against the 60 to 80% cuts that scientists say are needed. So the big problem is the US. No, on second thoughts, that's not fair; three-quarters of polled Americans want emission cuts, as does President Clinton. The big problem is the 100 Americans who happen to sit in the US Senate. Earlier this year they unanimously resolved that they would not ratify any Kyoto treaty unless Third World countries also formerly agreed to restrain their pollution. But these are refusing to make any commitment until they see some movement from the US, which, with 4% of the world's people contributes some 230% of the emissions. And they can point out, as the prestigious World Resources Institute in Washington has reported, that developing countries have actually prevented more carbon dioxide emissions since the Earth Summit than industrialised ones have. There is a good chance that Kyoto will agree to cut emissions by somewhere between three and 10% by 2010. That would require guts form President Clinton, but it might well, literally, save the world, for it would show industry that the rules were changing, and business would probably react surprisingly fast. When a similar signal was given 10 years ago, by what was initially a weak treaty, to combat the pollution that attacks the ozone layer, industry moved remarkably quickly to switch production, because it saw that in future the big money would be in cleaning up. Already BP and Shell are both rapidly expanding their solar energy divisions in anticipation of change. If Kyoto succeeds and establishes follow-up meetings to tighten up the targets as the ozone treaty did this will surely spread and accelerate. And the student of the future will be taught that the beginning of December 1997 was the time that a world, long drunk on fossil fuels, suddenly began to sober up. 
