climate change
{ Caroline O'Doherty 
    January 18 2020 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/caroline-odoherty-new-leaders-must-boost-climate-fight-as-major-holes-spotted-in-current-plan-38872246.html }
Major deficiencies in the national Climate Action Plan were identified by the all-party committee on climate action in the closing days of the outgoing Government. The committee, chaired by Fine Gael, agreed a highly critical assessment of climate action efforts to date and issued a series of recommendations to radically increase carbon reduction targets. The Green Party said it expects those recommendations to be honoured by the next government and it will make improved emissions targets a non-negotiable issue if it is involved in any government formation talks. The Climate Action Plan is just seven months old but the committee, which was instrumental in its development, said it was no longer enough. The members noted "with concern" the outgoing Government's commitment to continued gas exploration and called for it to reassess its openness to importing fracked gas and its enthusiasm for the unbridled growth of data centres and unsustainable  economic growth in general. They also criticised its failure to investigate fuel poverty and its neglect of the biodiversity crisis. Crucially, the committee said the Climate Action Plan's  target of a 2pc yearly reduction in emissions from 2021-2030 was "insufficient" and would not help achieve net-zero emissions status by 2050. It said the government must deliver "immediate and sustained reduction as recommended by the United Nations Environment Programme." That would require a yearly reduction of at least 7pc. It said carbon tax increases and electric vehicles would not be sufficient to achieve results and said the approach in the plan seemed to rely on offsetting emissions by "costly or untried negative emissions technology or offshore mitigation via the purchase of carbon credits".  Meeting revised targets would require "deep changes in the material  economy and land uses".  In a comment understood to refer to agriculture, the committee said: "No sector should have any privileged status or be exempt from effort." The plan was not even on a statutory footing, the committee said, as it needed new legislation for it to become law. Legislation, the Climate Action Amendment Bill, was only published in skeleton form on January 6 and was a long way off full drafting when the election was called. Last March the committee urged the enactment of this "essential" legislation by the end of 2019.  "The Committee therefore underlines that the Government has failed to prioritise and progress this amending legislation," it said. The Government was in the process of drawing up a National Energy and Climate Plan (NECP) as required by EU law but missed the December 31 deadline.  The committee said the new targets and its recommendations must be enshrined in the NECP but warned the proliferation of climate action strategies was confusing.  "There is a risk that the State's climate implementation may become disjointed and incoherent," the committee said. Green Party councillor David Healy, the party's spokesman for climate and a candidate for Dublin Bay North, said the committee's stance threw down a challenge to all parties to live up to its demands. "This was agreed by the all-party committee so we're taking it at face value that it has the agreement of the parties," he said.  "In that case, the political consensus is that the Climate Action Plan is not adequate in terms of overall national ambition. A 2pc annual decrease in emissions is not enough. That will need to at least triple. "Increasing it has to be the baseline of any programme for government. The Green Party [is] adamant this would be the path that must be followed in any future government." The committee met in private before Christmas to evaluate the Climate Action Plan and make recommendations on the NECP which it formally signed off on earlier this week. Irish Independent 
