climate change
{ ine Kerr in New York 
    September 22 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/cowen-says-climate-change-still-a-priority-despite-slump-26568015.html }
TAOISEACH Brian Cowen last night claimed the Government will have to implement "profound changes" in order to tackle climate change and reduce carbon emissions. Ahead of today's UN Climate Change Summit in New York, Mr Cowen said that in spite of the difficult economic agenda currently facing Ireland, climate change was a priority. And he warned that moving to a low-carbon economy and meeting ambitious EU targets on carbon emissions will "impact significantly" on the economy and our lives. "No sector, organisation or individual will be immune," Mr Cowen told the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change. Currently, Ireland faces legally binding targets to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide it emits from 70.3 million tonnes in 2005, to at least 56.3 million tonnes by 2020. It is possible Ireland will reach interim 2012 targets of 62.7 million tonnes because of the economic downturn. But achieving the higher 2020 targets is "unlikely without new policies", the ESRI has warned. The climate change summit comes as the Government looks set to introduce a carbon tax in the December Budget -- an environmental tax which would apply to petrol, diesel, home heating oil, gas, coal and peat briquettes. The New York summit convened by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon aims to help "seal the deal" on an international agreement on climate change by December in Copenhagen. US President Barack Obama will address the United Nations General Assembly tomorrow. John Bruton, the EU ambassador to Washington, last night criticised the US over its climate change record. He said: "Is the US Senate really expecting all the other countries to make a serious effort on climate change in the absence of a clear commitment from the United States? "The United States is just one of the 190 countries coming to this conference, but the United States emits 25pc of all the greenhouse gases that the conference is trying to reduce." 
