climate change
{ Richard Curran 
    December 05 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/richard-curran-few-of-us-are-ready-to-pay-the-real-price-of-going-green-38755079.html }
Building materials group Kingspan has decided to go green. In truth the company has been tapping into the environmental benefits of greener products for years.  The company has done incredibly well knowing that its insulation products meant less fossil fuel used in home heating, which is good for the planet.  But now it is going a lot further. Its ambitious strategy to reduce its carbon emissions by 2030 is commendable. It wants to increase its use of renewable energy, including on site power generation. It plans to cut carbon emissions in its value chain by 50pc and wants to reach zero waste throughout the business.  Lots of large firms, even bigger than Kingspan, come up with climate change initiatives that look tokenistic and which read more about brand positioning than saving the planet.  Kingspan's plan really reads as if they have thought it through. But missing from the detailed plan is how much it will cost.  The urgency of the climate change crisis was brought home this week when UN Secretary-General António Guterres warned that the "point of no return is no longer over the horizon. It is in sight and hurtling toward us." If he is right, then the point of no return looks set to be reached. Despite many positive developments from governments, businesses and consumers, there is one basic truth at the centre of attempts to roll back the impact of climate change.  We will have to sacrifice economic growth in the short term to tackle the crisis. If we really want to reduce carbon emissions by the levels required in time, we will have to slow down our pace of growth and even see economic contraction.  There are those who argue that so-called green growth can be achieved. More sustainable, yet environmentally friendly, technologies will allow the world to keep growing at a pace while not destroying the planet.  Behind the idea of green growth is the notion that tackling climate change can be a win-win. Cleaner fast-growing industries, such as electric vehicles or sustainable clothing, will allow people to keep consuming. In many cases more sustainable products or sources of energy cost more. If they cost more they will be used less. Or there may be a trade-off between convenience and sustainability.  For example, if you want to drive your electric vehicle on long journeys, you will have to charge it up more than you would a diesel guzzler. In real world terms, inconvenience, higher costs and changed consumer behaviour carry an economic cost. In the areas of wind energy, it has had to be subsidised heavily. As the technology improves, those subsidies will decrease but the world is not moving quickly enough to reach the necessary targets through new technologies.  We see the trade-offs between economic growth and sustainability in Ireland. Beef farmers blocked Kildare Street with tractors, leading to chaos for tens of thousands of commuters.  They were arguing for better prices for their beef. They are caught in a perfect storm of greater supply, Brexit, consolidation among processors and the dangers of long-term changes to beef consumption.  Ireland's economic strategy for the food industry involves more cows, which means more greenhouse gas emissions. Improved farming methods will help but our plan for greater dairy and beef exports is incompatible with our climate change targets for the sector, even with the best efforts of producers and processors.  This may require taking a step back. A step back in this case could involve an animal cull.  Anything Ireland might do has to be seen against the wider global targets for climate emissions. The world needs to nearly halve current carbon emissions by 2030 to stand a chance of limiting temperatures to the desired 1.5C.  But global emissions are rising, not falling. And the global population is growing. How do we hack back emissions while feeding more people and meeting rising demand for energy and transport? Sustainable technologies, greater awareness and better ways of doing things are the answer. But we aren't there yet and we won't make it there in time.  Take fast-fashion. The clothing and footwear industries together account for more than 8pc of global climate impact, greater than all international airline flights and maritime shipping trips combined. Fast-fashion is an important part of that industry, where companies are selling greater numbers of cut-price clothes. What started out as a way of providing better clothes at low prices to economically disadvantaged people has become a method for less economically disadvantaged people to buy more stuff than they need. Fast-fashion companies are becoming more aware of their carbon footprint and are trying to do more in their manufacturing processes. They are tackling waste and pollution and trying to recycle more water.  According to Oxfam, from growing the cotton to the dyeing process, it can take an estimated 20,000 litres of water to make just one pair of jeans and one T-shirt. It would take more than 13 years for an individual to drink this amount. Processes can improve, but surely the easiest way to tackle this issue is to simply not buy as many pairs of jeans and T-shirts. Less product means lower growth and fewer jobs.  Without any real alternative for aviation fuel, surely in the meantime, the best way to reduce the carbon footprint of flying is to take fewer flights. Consumers are becoming more aware of the environmental cost of their purchasing and travel habits. But it isn't workable for everyone to do as climate change activist Greta Thunberg has done this week, and take a boat instead of a plane from New York to Madrid, to attend the climate summit.  Given the spotlight on her, Thunberg had to be consistent in her message by taking the slower option, but it would not make any sense for all of the attendees to do that. Consumers will have to be forced or directed into changing their habits. Peer pressure on reusable cups will go so far, but how do you tell people to stop flying so much? One way is to make it more expensive and EU initiatives are moving in that direction. Fewer flights will lead to lower emissions but also lower economic growth.  Buying less 'stuff' will reduce manufacturing and shipping emissions, but will also cost jobs.  Already there are signs that some of the big players are moving in the wrong direction. Probably connected to US President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Accord is the fact that during the first half of this year, China's investment in renewable energy fell by 39pc. China is both the greenest in the world and also the most polluting. It has more wind and solar power than any other country but it is also the world's largest builder of coal power plants.  Last year its emissions hit a record high. It accounted for more than half of the global increase in energy-related CO2 emissions in 2018. Solutions are emerging in the race to address climate change but they are probably not coming quickly enough.  Paying more for more sustainably produced goods will reduce consumption. Less consumption will depress growth with it. Consumers are therefore placed at the centre of the need for change. However, their most effective short-term options mean sacrificing growth. What company is willing to sell that story to its shareholders? What national government is going to try and sell that story to its electorate?  Indo Business 
