climate change
{ Myles Buchanan at Wicklow County Council meeting 
    May 03 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/news/councils-strategy-for-climate-change-38065674.html }
Wicklow's Climate Adaptation Strategy will go first go out on public display before coming back to the elected members to adopt at a future meeting due to take place after the elections. A peaceful demonstration outside the county buildings from members of the public preceded the meeting, with many of the protesters also present in the Council chamber for the presentation on the climate adaptation strategy. A notice of motion in the name of Cllr Tom Fortune and from Greystones Municipal District was also agreed, with Cllr Fortune thanking the action taken by local young people for helping to inspire the notice of motion. Reading out the notice, Cllr Fortune said: 'That Wicklow County Council acknowledge and support recent Climate Strikes driven by the young people and families in Greystones, Bray, Arklow, Dublin and around the country.  'That Wicklow County Council have listened and understood the deadly urgency felt by the young people and their demand that all stakeholders and representatives act immediately to ensure that young people have a liveable future in Wicklow, in Ireland and on plant Earth.  'That Wicklow County Council agreed that the evidence is overwhelmingly from IPCC on Climate and from WWF LPR on Biodiversity. That Wicklow County Council agreed that, while relatively small in global terms, Wild Wicklow, previously acknowledged as the World's most liveable community, can and must step up and show visible leadership.' He went on to outline steps which need to be taken by the local authority, such as declaring a climate emergency for Wicklow, publish a climate action plan, declare a biodiversity emergency for Wicklow, update and publish a biodiversity action plan and report regularly on progress on both action plans. Jim Callery, Environment Awareness Officer for Wicklow County Council, made the presentation on the climate adaptation strategy, outlining actions which the local authority plan to take.  'There is a risk of increased event like Storm Emma which we need to plan for. Temperatures are rising and sea levels are rising. The frequency and intensity of extreme weather events are changing,' said Mr Callery. Cllr Jennifer Whitmore felt that Wicklow County Council urgently required the appointment of a climate change officer, along with an evaluating committee. 'This has been led by students and the youth. They spoke loudly and clear and we are listening. Now we have to show the leadership you are looking for because this hasn't just popped up. It has been going on for years now and we haven't been listening,' sad Cllr Whitmore. Cllr Steven Matthews, Green Party, warned that 'unpopular decisions' would have to be made in order to reduce emissions but asked 'that the people stay with us.' He added: 'This is the very reason I got involved in local politics, so we would have proper planning and environmental protection. We have been talking about it for 20 to 30 years with no action whatsoever. This needs to be followed by actions.' However, he was disappointed with the contents of the draft document. 'It's 101 pages but only ten pages are about strategy, a lot of which isn't funded and a lot of which is aspirational.' Cllr Gerry Walsh pointed out that Ireland has consistently lagged behind in reaching its emissions target. 'We haven't been meeting all of our emission targets and are bottom of the league. This provides a road map for a more sustainable future.' Cllr Mary Kavanagh read out a list actions which she wanted Wicklow County Council to take in order to tackle climate change, such as the non use of pesticides which include glyphosate like Roundup, no cutting back verges, no felling of healthy trees and no hedge cutting during nesting season. The draft will go out on public display this week and has to be adopted by September 30. Bray People 
