climate change
{  
    September 17 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/a-storm-is-coming-25898235.html }
The US is being ravaged by hurricanes, Tony Blair says climate change is a bigger threat than terrorism and El Nino is about to be unleashed. The weather forecast is about to get a whole lot worse, writes Gemma O'Doherty As Hurricane Ivan continues its rampage up the southern states of America, this week scientists warned the world to brace itself for another six months of extreme weather. The strongest hurricane for almost a decade, which has ravaged the Caribbean for the last fortnight killing more than 70 people, Ivan is part of a trend of increasingly turbulent weather, they claim, which we can expect to see a lot more of during the coming winter. Climate experts in the US predict that although hurricane activity will be below normal in October, it is only because another weather phenomenon is gathering pace: the infamous El Nino, which usually hits every seven years and has killed more people worldwide than even the worst hurricane seasons. Characterised by an abnormal warming of the surface waters of the Pacific, the last big El Nino event in 1997-98 cost hundreds of lives and caused almost ?35bn worth of damage, mainly in Chile, Ecuador and Bolivia. A more recent milder version last winter brought about the worst Australian drought in a century. Carrying warm water eastwards across the Pacific, El Nino tends to cause heavy rain on the west coast of America and in central and South America, leaving Australia, southern Asia and Africa facing severe drought. The warning, issued this week by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), has been questioned by some climatologists who say it is unusual for El Nino to strike so late in the year. However, the phenomenon has increased in frequency in recent years and, more worryingly, has become harder to predict. Europe is generally unaffected by El Nino, but the recent summer, which produced the wettest August in more than 50 years in Britain and 16 years in some parts of Ireland, does not augur well for what might lie ahead during the final months of the year. The predicted Indian summer here failed to materialise and September has got off to a cool, blustery start. In some parts of the UK, which has seen some of its worst flooding for years in 2004, it has already proved to be a record-breaking month in terms of rainfall. This week, on the same day that British Prime Minister Tony Blair made his ground-breaking speech on global warming, where he cited climate change as the greatest threat to civilisation, the city of Manchester experienced its wettest day since 1965. Urging the world to wake up to climate change, Tony Blair called for "a green industrial revolution", claiming global warming had become "alarming and was simply unsustainable in the long term". Britain, which played a prominent role in negotiating the 1999 Kyoto agreement to reduce carbon emissions, is doing more than most countries to cut greenhouse gases, with a current reduction rate of 14%. Blair's emotional speech last Tuesday urged wealthy nations to lead the way in averting the "catastrophic consequences of climate change", which were described earlier this year by his chief scientist as a greater problem than the threat of terrorism. While most climate scientists have been reluctant to attribute individual extreme-weather events to climate change, many are now convinced that the proof of global warming is too real to ignore. Ten of the past 14 years have been the hottest on record worldwide, a trend linked to the dramatic rise in greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere. The last century has seen a rise in average global temperatures of 0.6 degrees Celsius. As glaciers melt and snow cover declines, sea levels are rising, threatening the lives of 100 million people by the year 2100. As we enter the final months of the year, 2004 has followed the pattern of larger, more frequent, and more damaging extreme-weather events. Hurricanes, intense heatwaves, flash floods, droughts, and forest fires have been more prevalent than ever. For the first time since detailed recordings began 60 years ago, four major hurricanes have developed in the Atlantic. The first, Alex, the strongest Atlantic hurricane recorded on northern latitude, grazed the coast of North Carolina in August but caused little damage. Then Charley, which experts describe as the second most destructive hurricane since Hurricane Andrew in 1992, battered Florida causing ?10bn worth of destruction. This was followed by Frances, which left four dead. Then Ivan came ripping through the Caribbean before continuing its terrifying journey through the gulf states of the US, with fears that the worst may be yet to come. The hurricanes, powered by heat in the sea, have spawned tornadoes in their wake, 173 of which were reported across the US in August, a number that far exceeds the previous record of 126 set in 1979. NOAA, based at Princeton University, recently warned that: "The strongest hurricanes in the present climate may be upstaged by even more intense hurricanes over the next century as the Earth's climate is warmed by increasing levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere." Global warming is constantly putting more energy into the climate system, which must be dissipated both by increasing the number and intensity of storms. As temperatures rise, the heat evaporates more water from seas and lakes, which forms more clouds and leads to greater rainfall. Meanwhile on the other side of the world, the heaviest floods in a century have struck south-west China. This year, Bangladesh, India and Nepal also endured some of the most severe floods in decades leaving tens of thousands of people homeless. Japan has also been battered by a summer of tropical storms, recording a 15-year high. Probably the most confusing weather event of the year so far occurred in the Canadian Prairies, which had their coldest summer since records began in 1872, forcing their famous geese to emigrate south one month early. "What is clear is that we are seeing more and more things we're not used to seeing," says John Sweeney, senior lecturer in geography at Maynooth University. "Nothing that has happened in recent years would seem to contradict what climate scientists are saying about climate change. There is surprise that El Nino may be recurring so soon after the last occurrence but there is no need for undue alarm yet." However, despite the extreme weather of 2004, so far it has resulted in fewer deaths than last year, which witnessed 700 natural disasters and claimed 50,000 lives. Weather experts here have not ruled out the possibility of Ireland suffering the tail-end of the violent hurricane season, which sometimes brings deep depressions across the Atlantic in late autumn. Hurricane Charlie still holds the record for producing the worst Irish weather, when, in the summer of 1986, it caused the deaths of six people, the evacuation of more than 1,000 people from their homes and left parts of Dublin under several feet of water. As the days shorten and Irish weather patterns continue along current trends, a wet, windy winter is on the way with the prospect of milder temperatures. Darker days are also expected due to increased cloud in the sky. But there is some good news. Compared to 40 years ago, spring arrives three weeks earlier nowadays, so once Christmas is over, we can expect to see brighter days on the horizon again. 
