climate change
{  
    February 16 2014 11:07 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/kerry-likens-climate-change-to-wmd-30014081.html }
Climate change may be the world's "most fearsome" weapon of mass destruction and urgent action is needed to combat it, US Secretary of State John Kerry has said. In a speech to Indonesian students, civic leaders and government officials in Jakarta, he compared those who deny its existence or question its causes to people who insist the Earth is flat. Mr Kerry laid into climate change deniers, accusing them of using shoddy science to delay measures needed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases at the risk of imperilling the planet. He also went after those continue to dispute who is responsible for such emissions, arguing that everyone and every country must take responsibility and act immediately. "We simply don't have time to let a few loud interest groups hijack the climate conversation," he said, referring to what he called "big companies" that "don't want to change and spend a lot of money" to act to reduce the risks. "We should not allow a tiny minority of shoddy scientists and science and extreme ideologues to compete with scientific facts," Mr Kerry told the audience gathered at a US Embassy-run American Centre in a Jakarta shopping mall. "Nor should we allow any room for those who think that the costs associated with doing the right thing outweigh the benefits." "The science is unequivocal, and those who refuse to believe it are simply burying their heads in the sand," Mr Kerry said. "We don't have time for a meeting anywhere of the Flat Earth Society," He argued that the cost of inaction to environments and economies will far outweigh the significant expense of reducing greenhouse gas emissions that trap solar heat in the atmosphere and contribute to the Earth's rising temperatures. The speech came a day after Mr Kerry won an agreement with China to cooperate more closely with the US on combating climate change. American officials hope that will help encourage other nations, including developing countries like Indonesia and India, to follow suit. Just after Mr Kerry left Beijing yesterday, the US and China issued a joint statement saying they had agreed on steps to carry out commitments to curb greenhouse gases, including reducing vehicle emissions, improving energy efficiency of buildings and other measures. China and the United States are the biggest sources of emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that cause the atmosphere to trap solar heat and alter the climate. Scientists warn such changes are already leading to drought, wildfires, rising sea levels, melting polar ice, plant and animal extinctions and other extreme conditions. The two governments will "contribute significantly to successful 2015 global efforts to meet this challenge", the statement said, citing "overwhelming scientific consensus on climate change and its worsening impacts, and the related issue of air pollution from burning fossil fuels". Beijing and Washington launched the US-China Climate Change Working Group last year. They promised progress in five areas: reducing vehicle emissions; advanced electric power grids; capturing and storing carbon emissions; gathering greenhouse gas data; and building efficiency. Mr Kerry is in Indonesia on the last leg of a three-nation tour of Asia that started in South Korea and then China. After leaving Indonesia tomorrow, he will travel on to Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. Before giving his climate change speech, Mr Kerry toured Jakarta's massive Istiqlal Mosque, one of the largest in the world, to pay his respects to Indonesia's Muslim majority population. PA Media 
