climate change
{  
    October 09 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/letters-to-the-editor-oppositions-cant-dismiss-trump-and-brexit-voters-38576918.html }
It strikes me with regard to many politicians that a rule of thumb to use is the rule of thirds – a third are incompetent, a third are corrupt, and a third are suffering from megalomania. In the darkest hours of human history there has arisen the final 1pc replete with all of the foregoing attributes.   In the UK and US, in my opinion, there are now two individuals of such characterisation.  Where and how far these individuals are allowed to progress their agendas and to what endgame awaits to be seen but it is for certain that they do have a political base and this base cannot be ignored.  The people who voted for these leaders feel that only repudiation of the last 50 years of globalisation, mass immigration and liberalisation is the solution.  For the US Democratic and UK Labour parties, it is the betrayal and isolation that this cohort of voters feels which needs to be assuaged and tapped into in both jurisdictions’ forthcoming elections.  Instead we see both oppositions attempting to weaponise and demonise the incumbent leaders by levelling accusations of impropriety, however real or otherwise these may be. If they are able to listen to and understand those who voted for Donald Trump and Brexit (and by default Boris Johnson), then maybe the yet-to-be-decided democratic candidate and Jeremy Corbyn will have a chance in these forthcoming campaigns. Should they not, then I feel we can expect more of the same. Tony Hetherton  Address with editor Don’t throw Border baby out with the backstop bathwater Insistence on a watertight backstop may precipitate a no-deal Brexit with an EU-imposed hard Border. Cross-border trade is 0.85pc of EU-UK trade. Gnats and camels; motes and beams; babies and bathwater come to mind. Dr John Doherty Gaoth Dobhair, Co Dhún na nGall We should all pay a tax to fund climate change battle Putting 2c or 3c on a litre of petrol or diesel will do nothing for climate change. If we are to change human behaviour, you would have to put 50c on a litre.  But we can’t do that, as it would discriminate against rural Ireland. It would also be unfair to long-distance commuters who have had to go farther away from Dublin due to ridiculously high house prices.  So how do we address the climate change  issue? The Government should just introduce a standalone climate change tax. Everyone should have to pay this tax relative to their income. This money should be ringfenced and used solely for the purpose of addressing all issues to do with protecting our planet – investment in public transport, packaging, recycling, etc.  We all want to protect our planet for our children and grandchildren. Let’s do it! Eamonn Kitt Tuam, Co Galway Getting in a jam over activists causing disruption to traffic Can we assume that increased air pollution due to traffic jams will not in any way contribute to global warming or respiratory problems, providing such traffic jams are caused by climate activists? Patrick Davis. Dublin 17 Oughterard affair will not deter migrants coming here Brendan Butler (Letters, October, 4) wonders if further cohorts of foreign migrants may “avoid” the Emerald Isle due to the Oughterard affair. Not likely!  Your correspondent could consult on the latest Census (2016). It confirms that all countries worldwide have ample migrants here already. Many come from heavily overpopulated countries and continents.  Our small country is thus less a distinct national community than an international economic entity with unrestricted “open-door” immigration.  Sean Bearnabhail Dublin 9 Problem with rugby team is they play like individuals Are the words ‘Irish rugby team’ misleading?   Are not the Irish rugby team a group of highly paid individuals, where individuality is the problem?  The Irish rugby team can be likened to a basketful of apples and the only reason they gel at all is because they are contained by the basket.  In the game against Japan, the Irish team didn’t need to win. All they had to do was ensure they did not lose.  Yet they gave away four penalties, then disintegrated.  Isaac Connolly  Gorey, Co Wexford Irish Independent 
