climate change
{ Treacy Hogan 
    February 11 2008 03:24 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/its-decision-time-26348809.html }
Our Environment Correspondent Treacy Hogan outlines the stark choices WE love our cars, but few of us realise the pollution they cause, and the price our grandchildren will have to pay for turning the ignition key. The average car emits 160 grammes of carbon every kilometre travelled. No big deal, you might say. Wrong. With the average drivers travelling 16,000km every year this works out at 2.5 tonnes of CO2 a year. There are now 2.3m vehicles on our roads, spewing out 6.2m tonnes of these greenhouse gas emissions, now proven to be altering our climate. It is a no brainer that we have to do our bit for the environment and ease back on the throttle. Driving thirsty SUVs in urban areas, where they are known as Donnybrook tractors, is no longer sustainable. The number of cars on Irish roads has increased by over 50pc in the past 10 years. During 2006 alone, private car ownership per 1,000 of the population increased by 4.5pc, resulting in an increased car ownership of 420 cars per 1,000 people. This translates into 1.2 cars per permanently occupied dwelling in 2006 – a 54pc increase on 1990. Transport fumes represent a large proportion of our overall air emissions, 78pc of carbon monoxide emissions and 22pc of carbon dioxide emissions. In fact, emissions of greenhouse gases from car and truck exhausts are rising faster than any other sector. By opting to walk, cycle or use public transport we are reducing the amount of harmful emissions being released into the atmosphere. Another alternative is to consider a car with a smaller engine, which will prove particularly fuel efficient if you’re a city driver. And with the new VRT system designed to reward the greenminded and punish the gas guzzlers, it actually makes sense to downsize, or even switch to a diesel engine as these emit far less C02 and will attract less VRT and also lower road tax. Our love affair with the car is set to continue, if Jeremy Clarkson has anything to do about the situation. But even without climate change, we will have to alter how we travel and how we fuel that travel. With oil at record prices and the peak in global oil production approaching, we will have to change our ways. Taking fewer unnecessary car journeys, making a conscious effort to use public transport more frequently, getting our kids to walk or cycle to school if they live closeby, buying cars with diesel or biofuel engines or plumping for a 1.4 model instead of a 2.5-litre 4x4 are all tiny steps in the right direction. If everyone does their bit, we will bring down emissions and play our part in challenging climate change. People frequently ask why we should get attacked about our car emissions when, after all, the Americans take pride in advertising cars as gas guzzlers. The Americans are the world’s biggest polluters, accounting for more than one-third of all emissions. What we do here might equate to no more than a flea on an elephant’s back. But if Bono and Bob Geldof can change US policy on the third world, it behoves us to try and play some small part in cutting down the sum total of the planet’s climate-altering emissions. All change starts at home with the family. The steps outlined above may seem like small beer but remember; every kilometre of car travel we forego, 160 grammes less CO2 gets trapped in the atmosphere. Do your bit. WE HAVE entered into a contract not to exceed annual average emissions by 63m tonnes of CO2 between 2008-2012. We are now so far short of the target that the Government’s aim to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 3pc annually is, I believe, not going to be met. Even with all the wheeling and dealing of buying credits to offset our ‘deficit’, Irish taxpayers face a bill of €1bn to honour our climate change responsibilities. Imagine what that will do for public expenditure on roads, hospitals and schools. The long-term consequences here include savage winter storms and summer droughts. Unless major emission reductions are achieved, the target of limiting increases in the global mean temperature to 2°C above pre-industrial levels will not be met in the second half of this century. Failure to limit the temperature increase is likely to result in further changes in rainfall, rising sea levels and a change in the magnitude and frequency of some extreme weather events. We can expect: ? Significant sea level rises, more intense storms and rainfall events. ? Increased river and coastal flooding. ? Drought in the summer in the east and south east, with increased need for crop irrigation. ? Drinking water affected by sea water. ? Summer temperatures 2.5°C hotter, but they could increase by three degrees. ? Autumn temperatures up 2.7°C. ? Higher winter rainfall of between 11-17pc. ? Wettest weather in the midlands. ? Extinction of vulnerable species requiring cooler conditions, such as the Arctic Char fish found in Irish lakes. ? Depletion of fish stocks sensitive to even small changes in temperature. This would include cod. ? Increased frequency of wild fires and pest infestation. ? Low-lying places such as Louth and North Dublin, which have little or no protection from rising seas, could be badly affected by coastal erosion. ? More than 300sq km are at high risk of being inundated by flooding and coastal erosion, especially around our cities. Two degrees celsius is the point past which there would be “dangerous and irreversible impacts of climate change”. This would lead to the loss of major ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica by 2100, and could severely impact the Gulfstream – the ocean current which gives Ireland its temperate climate. Is this what we want for our grandchildren and their grandchildren? That is why we have no option but to act, and make those small, bold first steps with our cars. The best explanation I have encountered about why we won’t be forgiven for failing to act on emissions comes from Prof Frank Convery, one of Ireland’s foremost environmental academics. He says, quite simply, that “we owe it to our children and future generations not to burden them with the increased risk of unmanageable climate change”. That is the bottom line. 
