climate change
{ David McHugh and Geir Moulson in Hamburg 
    July 08 2017 03:32 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/trump-odd-man-out-as-19-of-g20-group-reaffirm-paris-accord-commitment-35909235.html }
World powers have lined up against US president Donald Trump on climate change as they reaffirmed their support for international efforts to fight global warming. The final statement of the G20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, underlined that the other countries and the European Union supported the Paris climate agreement rejected by Mr Trump. They called the deal to reduce greenhouse gases "irreversible" and vowed to implement it quickly and without exception. The other countries, from European powers such as Germany to emerging ones such as China and energy producers such as Saudi Arabia, dismissively "took note" of the US position, which was boxed off in a separate paragraph that the summit host, German chancellor Angela Merkel, made clear applied only to the United States. She said the US position was "regrettable" but that the summit had achieved "good results in some areas", and cited a hard-won agreement on trade that does include Mr Trump and the United States. On trade, difficult talks yielded the preservation of the G20's condemnation of protectionism, a statement that has been a hallmark of the group's efforts to combat the global financial crisis and the after-effects of the Great Recession. 
Close
 President Donald Trump meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the G20 Summit, Saturday, July 8, 2017, in Hamburg, Germany. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) AP / 
Close
 Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during a press conference after the G-20 summit in Hamburg, northern Germany, Saturday, July 8, 2017, where the leaders of the group of 20 met for two days. (AP Photo/Alexander Zemlianichenko, pool) AP / 
Close
 France's President Emmanuel Macron speaks during a press conference after the G-20 summit in Hamburg, northern Germany, Saturday, July 8, 2017, where the leaders of the group of 20 met for two days. (AP Photo/Markus Schreiber) AP / The group added new elements, however: an acknowledgment that trade must be "reciprocal and mutually advantageous" and that countries could use "legitimate trade defence instruments" if they are being taken advantage of. That echoes concerns raised by Mr Trump, who was attending his first G20. He has said trade must be fair as well as open and must benefit American companies and workers. He has focused on trade relationships where other countries run large surpluses with the US, meaning they sell more to US consumers than they buy from American companies. More broadly, concerns about trade and its impact on workers figured large in the 2016 US presidential election and in the UK's vote to leave the European Union. However, pro-trade officials from the European Union pointed out that the language in the G20 statement contains no departure from the current global system of regulation, which already allows countries to take defensive measures within the rules of the World Trade Organisation. Those can include import taxes that offset unfair practices such as government subsidies or below-cost pricing. The EU demonstrated its willingness to move ahead with free trade despite Mr Trump by announcing a trade agreement with Japan on the eve of the summit. On climate, summit deputies put together a three-part fudge that everyone could sign. That meant a first section with a broad pledge to fight climate change in general; a separate paragraph carved out that acknowledged the US did not support the Paris deal; and a third paragraph in which the other 19 members reaffirmed their support for the deal. The results of the summit are not absolutely decisive, on either the trade or the climate issue. The no-protection pledge was often violated, increasingly in harder-to-detect ways such as tax breaks for home industries rather than obvious import taxes. Meanwhile, failure to agree on climate does not stop countries from moving ahead in meeting the Paris agreement's goals, or exceed them if they want to. Additionally, US states and private companies can pursue lower emissions on their own. G20 agreements are statements of intent and rely on governments themselves to follow through. Still, they set the tone for global policymaking and enable peer pressure when they are not followed. Other deals at the summit included an agreement to press internet providers to detect and remove extremist content as a way of fighting terrorist incitement and recruiting. John Kirton, co-director of the G20 Research Group at the University of Toronto's Munk School of Global Affairs, called the summit a "very solid success", pointing to broad agreement on the agenda, much of it focusing on less controversial issues. He said that over the long term the G20 implements 70pc of its promises, and has implemented 80pc of them since last year's summit in Hangzhou, China. The meetings competed for attention with rioting by anti-capitalist demonstrators outside the heavily secured Hamburg Messe convention centre. Rioters set up street barricades, looted supermarkets and attacked police with slingshots and firebombs. The G20 comprises Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, Germany, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Canada, South Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey, the UK, the US and the European Union. Theresa May said she was dismayed about Donald Trump's decision, urged Mr Trump to rejoin the Paris climate change agreement and raised it with him on the sidelines of the gathering in Hamburg, although it was not one of the items on the agenda in the formal meeting between the two leaders. The prime minister said: "Like other world leaders here, I am dismayed at the US decision to pull out of the Paris agreement and I have urged President Trump to rejoin the Paris agreemen "The UK's own commitment to the Paris agreement and tackling global climate change is as strong as ever." Challenged on why she had not used her bilateral meeting with the US president to tackle him on the issue, she said: "I did bring the issue of the climate change agreement up with President Trump, I've had a number of conversations with him over the time I have been here at the G20. "When I brought it up with him, what I did was I encouraged him to bring the United States back into the Paris agreement. "I continue to hope that is exactly what the United States will do."  Online Editors 
