climate change
{ Jill Ward 
    January 16 2020 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/climate-change-topping-league-table-of-wefs-global-concerns-38866652.html }
The World Economic Forum (WEF) is sounding alarm bells on climate change, with environmental risks occupying the group's top five long-term  concerns for the first time. Extreme weather, the failure of climate-change mitigation, major natural disasters, biodiversity loss and human environmental damage were identified as the most likely risks by respondents in the WEF's 2020 report. It is the only time in the survey's 14-year history that climate-related concerns took all top spots. Economic confrontations and domestic political polarisation were also recognised as short-term issues by global experts and decision-makers, the report shows. Confronting climate change will be a key topic of discussion when business and political leaders meet in Davos, Switzerland, for the WEF's annual meetings next week. In a presentation prepared for the meeting, Deutsche Bank strategists said the "question of our age" is how much societies would be willing to sacrifice in economic growth to reverse climate change, and that governments will need to work across  borders to find solutions. "The political landscape is polarised, sea levels are rising and climate fires are burning," said WEF president Borge Brende. "This is the year world leaders must work with all sectors of society to repair and reinvigorate our systems of co-operation, not just for short-term benefit but for  tackling deep-rooted risks." Failure to work together would be "catastrophic" for addressing challenges like the climate crisis and species decline, says the report. The WEF report also called on policy-makers and firms to match targets for protecting the climate with ones that boost economies, and for companies to adjust to science- based targets in order to avoid massive future losses. Asked whether there was a gap between the group's rhetoric and the reality of CEOs and politicians flying to Davos on private jets, WEF managing director Adrian Monck said that "the sustainability measures we put in place actually overcompensate for the annual meeting". Irish Independent 
