climate change
{ Caroline O'Doherty 
    January 23 2020 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/election-2020/canvassers-without-a-candidate-highlighting-climate-issues-38887735.html }
They are the canvassers without a candidate - groups of climate activists are going door to door asking people to vote for green policies in whichever party they back.  The initiative involves environmental and rights groups from Christian Aid and the National Women's Council to  Fridays for Future and Extinction Rebellion. All are asking voters to press prospective TDs on their climate policies and to push for a commitment to an 8pc annual reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 2030. The current climate action plan targets a reduction of just 2pc. "We are not telling them to vote for one party over another. We want them to raise it with every candidate who comes to the door," said Paul McCormack Cooney of Extinction Rebellion. "We want climate action to be ringing in politicians' ears when they go into power. We want politicians to know that there is an informed voter base that are going to be paying attention to their actions on the climate." Many of the groups have come together under the One Future banner. Additional demands include a ban on all new fossil fuel projects, an immediate end to coal and peat burning for electricity production, and supports for farmers and other workers in the transition to sustainable production. Greater investment in public transport and home insulation programmes, protection for wildlife and justice for those worst affected by the climate crisis around the world are other key issues. Oisín Coughlan of Friends of the Earth said volunteers were distributing beermat -sized fact sheets and guiding voters to lists of questions for candidates on the onefuture.ie website. "Just having the facts in your pocket totally changes the conversation on the doorstep. The canvasser says, 'I'll leave you a flyer', and you can say, 'actually I have one for you and it tells you what I want you and your candidate to do'," he said. "We are not campaigning for any candidate, we are campaigning for climate.  "This empowers people to be part of that campaign." Jenny Higgins of Christian Aid said climate action needed to be put high on every candidate's agenda. "The One Future campaign is about something bigger than just individual party politics," she said. "It seeks to engage every sector of society and encourage real and meaningful action on climate change. The climate crisis affects us all and as such requires a collective response." Irish Independent 
