climate change
{ Paul  Melia 
    June 11 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/weather-warning-26456279.html }
Severe winter storms with winds gusting over 110kmh and widespread flooding are likely to hit Ireland as a direct result of climate change. And a new report outlining the catastrophic changes that will occur to our weather systems over the coming century, says the population will face an increased risk of skin cancer because of the depleted ozone layer and high summer temperatures. The report, "Ireland in a Warmer World: Scientific Predictions of the Irish Climate in the 21st Century" warns that our climate is likely to change irrecoverably over the coming years unless significant inroads are made in reducing carbon dioxide emissions and tackling climate change. Crops Farmers may have to stop growing particular crops, including the potato, because they will require too much water and the south and east of the country could see average temperatures soar by four degrees a year. The report, which is based on climate modelling work carried out by Met Eireann and UCD, says that the frequency of "very intense" cyclones, or winter storms, affecting Ireland is likely to increase. Coupled with 3.5cm sea level rises each decade, large parts of the coastline could be devastated from flooding with property damage and loss of life. Rising water levels in rivers will also result in flooding inland, while decreases in water levels over the summer will have "significant consequences" for water availability and quality and fisheries. The report says that changes in the climate could impede the recovery of the ozone layer, which stops the sun's harmful rays (UV radiation) from affecting the population. Together with a warmer climate, this means there could be negative health consequences due to exposure to UV radiation including an increase in skin cancer rates. Report editor Ray McGrath from Met Eireann said yesterday. "Three to four degrees is a substantial change and there will be more rainfall in the autumn and winter and the summers will be drier. "There are likely to be implications in growing crops. People may have to re-assess if certain crops are viable, or if you want to get into irrigation. Potatoes require a lot of water so it might be a case of moving to other crops. "We're not talking about hurricanes, but when winter storms come they will be intense. The facts are with winters getting wetter, there's a greater risk of flooding. Even if we stopping burning fossil fuels tomorrow and started riding bicycles, to get back to where we were five years ago would take longer than five years." Environment Minister John Gormley said the report underlined the fact that Ireland and other countries were reliant on a "new world deal" on climate change to combat the worst impacts. "We also must begin work at home on making the necessary adaptation plans to deal with climate change," he said. "A national adaptation strategy is being worked on in my department, and a number of local authorities are also working on their own adaptation plans. Planning for the impacts of climate change will have to become an integral part of our development planning here in Ireland, at a local and national level." 
