climate change
{ Brendan Keane 
    September 27 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/students-call-for-climate-change-action-38526928.html }
Secondary school students in Enniscorthy have put their weight behind an initiative aimed at turning the town into a pilot 'sustainable town'. To coincide with last Friday's global day of strike action over climate concerns a workshop event was held in the Presentation Centre in Enniscorthy during which the students got to discuss climate change and sustainability. They were also invited and encouraged to come up with solutions to various problems they identified in brainstorming sessions. The workshop was facilitated by Irene Cadogan from the Enniscorthy Sustainable Town Project. Students from Meanscoil Gharman and Colaiste Bride participated in the event. At first they identified positive things about their town and following that discussed issues that need addressing and then worked on ways of improving the town. 'They get to think about how they can make a difference,' said Irene when this newspaper visited the workshop on Friday. 'We're hoping that their suggestions and solutions will form the basis of a report and that might be presented to the [Municipal District] Council,' added Irene. 'Students and children see problems from a different perspective than we do.' Irene said it's hoped two more similar styled workshops will take place in the town between now and Christmas. 'We hope to have two more workshops aimed at businesses and community groups,' said Irene. 'It's really about raising awareness and to do something positive for the town,' she added. While the pilot project is based purely around Enniscorthy, Irene is hopeful that, depending on how successful it is there, the overall project might be rolled out to the other towns in the county as well. She also complimented the likes of Enniscorthy Tidy Towns, whose representative Billy Murphy, was in attendance. 'There are a lot of organisations doing a lot of very good work in the town but they go under the radar,' she said. Irene also emphasised that a lot of people have very good ideas. She said another aim of the workshop was to encourage students to take action and to put into place initiatives that would help address problems rather than just talk about them. The workshop was very inclusive and interactive and the students were actively encouraged to work together in groups to come up with solutions to issues that they themselves identified. Mr Murphy also spoke to this newspaper at the event and said Tidy Towns as an organisation was fully supportive of the project which he described as being 'very positive'. 'It's about their generation and what they come up with here could benefit them going forward,' he said. He said that the Tidy Towns organisation is starting to work towards being more environmentally friendly. 'We are looking at trying to invest in some electric lawnmowers and strimmers etc rather than the traditional petrol driven type,' he said. At the culmination of the workshop the students were shown a video that was shot by the Tidy Towns organisation that focussed attention on food and water and how to reduce waste. The video will also be available to access through the Enniscorthy Tidy Towns social media platforms. Mr Murphy praised the local authority in Enniscorthy which he said was very supportive of his organisation's work and also of initiatives like the student workshop. Meanwhile, Irene praised the work going on in local schools and emphasised that students are the next generation and that it's their future that is of concern to them now. The students from Coláiste Bride are very passionate about global warming and climate change and in addition to participating in the workshop students from the school also participated in a demonstration on the bridge in Enniscorthy to highlight their concerns as part of the global day of action for climate change. Gorey Guardian 
