climate change
{ Emily Gosden 
    November 01 2014 08:33 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/report-warns-of-severe-climate-change-effects-30710587.html }
The world can expect "severe and pervasive" negative impacts from climate change unless it takes rapid action to cut its greenhouse gas emissions, a United Nations report will warn today. Flooding, dangerous heatwaves, ill health and violent conflicts are among the risks if temperatures exceed 2C above pre-industrial levels, the report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will say. Continued burning of fossil fuels could lead to temperature increases of between 3.7C and 4.8C by the end of the century, the report warns, according to a draft seen by The Sunday Telegraph. Warming beyond 4C could result in "substantial species extinction; large risks to global and regional food security; impacts on normal human activities". The document, which has been agreed line by line at a summit in Copenhagen over the past week, ties together conclusions from three IPCC studies to provide the clearest summary yet of the scientific evidence on climate change. It is designed to be a guide for policymakers before a year of negotiations culminating in a summit in Paris next December at which an international deal on curbing emissions is due to be signed. Despite the IPCC's warnings, there is widespread agreement from climate change activists, sceptics and some government officials, that the summit is unlikely to achieve a legally binding deal that will curb warming to the 2C level. Doing so would require an overhaul of global energy systems to cut emissions up to 70pc from 2010 levels by 2050. The proportion of energy from low-carbon sources such as wind farms, solar power and nuclear reactors would have to triple or nearly quadruple, the draft says. Rajendra Pachauri, chairman of the IPCC, opened the Copenhagen summit by acknowledging the "seeming hopelessness of addressing climate change" but imploring policymakers to "avoid being overcome" by it. "It is not hopeless," he said, calling on governments to make decisions "informed by the science". Richard Black, of the Energy & Climate Intelligence Unit, said the key question for those finalising the IPCC report was "what to say about the elephant in the room . . . that if the computer model projections are right, keeping global warming below 2C basically means ending fossil fuel use well before today's children start drawing their pensions". The British government pushed for the report's wording to be strengthened to clarify the required emissions cuts, the risks of delaying action and the "co-benefits", such as improved air quality. These facts must not be "hidden in supporting text", according to a submission seen by the Responding To Climate Change website. Sunday Independent 
