climate change
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    March 14 2019 12:28 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/revealed-what-irish-schoolkids-really-think-about-climate-change-37913128.html }
A WHOPPING 86pc of Irish students feel leaders are not doing enough to tackle climate change.  Ahead of the 'Fridays for Future' student climate change protests protest, some 95pc said they are worried or very worried about their future due to the threat of climate change, while 60pc say they would vote for a party based on climate change policy The results are part of a comprehensive survey of 4,000 Irish second-level students on climate change, by Studyclix.ie.  Just over half (51pc) said they were ‘very worried’. In respect of the Irish Government’s efforts to tackle climate change, 86pc said the response has not been adequate. In a finding which adds weight to tomorrow’s nationwide student protests on climate change 84pc of students surveyed said they didn’t feel adults or the government take them seriously in their concerns on climate change. The Studyclix.ie ClimateChangeAction Survey also found that: 
Close
 / *80pc of students are hopeful changes can still be made to avoid the crisis *64pc of students believe their actions (in protesting) will make a difference. *84pc want more education on environment and sustainability in school *56pc said recent weather events had underlined issue of Climate Change Reacting to the findings Luke Saunders, CEO and Co-Founder of Studyclix.ie said: “Students are terrified by climate change and see it as today's biggest issue and they feel they are not being listened to and have been let down by us adults for our lack of action. “When asked, the majority of students said they would vote based on a party's climate policy and that they would prioritise better climate action over better healthcare or housing. This sends a powerful message to politicians: start tackling this issue if you want young people's votes in five to ten years’ time." Among those to take part in the survey was Niamh Duffy, Mount Sackville Secondary School, Dublin.  She said: "I think that the government’s lack of action is largely due to the fact that the effects of climate change seem like something that it will not become a problem until the distant future.  "However, it is my generation that will have to solve the problems caused by the government’s current lack of action. We are only teenagers, yet we already have the weight of keeping our planet alive on our shoulders. I think the government would be wise to think of their children, grandchildren, nieces and nephews before they continue to deny the very real and very terrifying effects that climate change will have." Online Editors 
