climate change
{ Caroline O'Doherty 
    November 16 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/news/environment/youth-climate-activists-bring-their-demands-to-the-dail-38697466.html }
Young climate activists have made a series of demands of the Government in an effort to accelerate climate action. The 157 delegates aged 10-17 from 26 counties took over the Dáil in a special youth assembly to formulate a list of  priority actions. Ceann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaíl welcomed the group to the chamber, declaring: "There is something monumentally important about this gathering. "Many of you have been outside the gate waving your banners on the subject of climate change and now you are inside in the place where the decisions are made." But in hard-hitting speeches, the delegates showed they were not overawed by the occasion or compliments. Conal O'Boyle (17) from Muff, Co Donegal, rejected the idea that it was a proud day for the Dáil or its usual occupants. "The fact that we are sitting in their seats should serve as an embarrassment to them as they have embarrassed us on an international level when it comes to climate change," he said. Sioda Monaghan (14) from Claremorris, Co Mayo, said politicians needed to stop talking about climate change as a future event. "This is not only our future, it is our present," she said. "Climate action is not something we can choose not to do. It's do or die." Following opening speeches, the delegates broke into five working groups to debate proposals brought from their own schools, community groups and climate strike committees, whittling the ideas down to 10 recommendations. Among the actions they have demanded are grants to assist supermarkets to install doors on refrigerated displays. Kian Oliver (16) from Bohermeen, Co Meath, said open fridges accounted for 70pc of energy consumption in supermarkets. Adding doors would cut energy bills and carbon emissions, he said. "When you use your fridge or freezer at home, you don't leave it open. It would be a reckless waste of energy." He said costings by the group had concluded that two years of grant assistance from the State would be repaid in a year through energy savings. Other demands included an immediate end to support for the proposal to import fracked gas into the country, the introduction of a tiered tax system on corporate carbon emissions, the development of a hemp-growing industry and climate impact labelling on food products. There were also calls for mandatory tree planting on 10pc of agricultural land, the creation of a crime of ecocide and introduction of compulsory climate education at Junior Cert level and an optional course at Leaving Cert.  The recommendations are to be circulated to all members of the Dáil and Seanad and a follow-up meeting is planned with Taoiseach Leo Varadkar. Irish Independent 
