climate change
{ Bill Browne 
    November 16 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/nano-nagle-centre-to-host-thought-provoking-climate-change-seminar-38690048.html }
The issue of climate change and the impact it is likely to have on future generations will be the subject of a seminar taking place at the Nano Nagle  centre in Ballygriffin on Saturday, November 23.  Entitled 'Awakening To Our Children's Future", the seminar will be hosted by renowned author, academic and climate activist Dr Lora Gold, who will share her understanding of what climate change means for the world and for future generations. In recent years the world has been waking up to climate change, the destructive impact it is already having on our ecology and what that means for all of us - but above all our children and our grandchildren.  Responding to this threat is a monumental challenge and in our quest to try to respond to it many people can become caught up in a kind of manic  activism in the attempt to feel we are doing something. On the other hand, many feel paralysed by the inadequacy of action, and the sheer scale of the problem. In short, facing the ecological crisis can become all consuming, and at times, overwhelming.  The director of the Nano Nagle Centre, Sr Mary Hoare, said Saturday week's seminar, which will run from 10am-4pm, will "explore the themes of integral ecology and environmental action through the frame of deep listening".   "Taking inspiration from Pope Francis in 'Laudato Si', and Nano Nagle's charism, it will engage participants in a powerful journey: from wonder and awe at the beauty of creation, through lament and reconciliation," said Sr Mary.   "This reflective day will focus on honing our individual and collective capacity to slow down and hear both the song and the cry of the earth. Through that, participants will start to discern what 'contemplative action' looks like in the face of the climate and ecological emergency."  Lorna Gold has worked with Trócaire for almost 20-years in the areas of policy, advocacy and research. She lectures in Applied Social Studies at Maynooth University, and is vice-chair of the board of the Catholic Climate Movement and a member of the government advisory group on the National Climate Dialogue.  Her most recent book 'Climate Generation - Awakening to our Children's Future' tells her personal story of waking up to the ecological emergency as a young mother. Advance booking for the seminar, which will cost €65 and includes morning tea/coffee and a light lunch, is essential. For more information and to book a place contact 022-26411or email secretary@nanonaglebithplace.ie Corkman 
