climate change
{  
    December 16 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/so-where-will-santa-live-after-the-meltdown-26351469.html }
GEMMA O'DOHERTY ponders the potentially catastrophic implications for Ireland and the world of the North Pole's disappearing ice cap It is one of the planet's most inaccessible landscapes, a place so far off human radar that somebody once declared it the mythical home of Santa Claus. No one would ever come all the way to the northernmost tip of the world to prove the story wrong. But the North Pole, according to a groundbreaking study published this week, is undergoing such dramatic geographical changes that in 30 years' time it will no longer be a barren desert of ice responsible for some of the worst Irish weather, but a vast ocean of warm water. For the first time, ships will be able to sail over the top of the world. New maritime routes will open up, bringing huge economic benefits to countries like Canada and Russia which surround the Arctic Ocean. Tourists will be able to visit what was, until the advent of climate change, one of the most remote places in the world. But the melting of the North Pole's ice cap will have a grave effect on species who make their home there. As sea ice is the platform from which they hunt seals, Polar bears, already among the most endangered animals on the planet, will be further threatened. Other wildlife native to this precious landscape such as walrus and seals, who depend on year-long ice for survival, face an equally uncertain future. Scientists have long known that ice reflects heat, and as it melts, it reduces the amount of heat that can be bounced away from the Earth. On a global scale, the mass melting of ice will also mean the planet will lose a vast reflective surface and will absorb more solar energy, potentially accelerating climate change across the world. Closer to home, climate experts believe that Ireland's relative proximity to the Arctic could mean radical changes in Irish weather in the not-too-distant future. Within 30 years, the melting of ice in the North Pole could eradicate the blistering Arctic winds we often experience in winter, leading to much warmer temperatures all year round. It could also lead to more serious long-term climate change through disruption of the North Atlantic Gulf Stream that brings mild winters to Ireland. There are also concerns that by 2040, diseases such as malaria could be endemic to Ireland as insects like mosquitoes find our new climate hospitable. "Geographically speaking, this is happening within our neighbourhood," says Dr Gerald Mills, senior lecturer in Geography at UCD. "We won't see catastrophic changes, but the disappearance of the ice sheet in the North Pole will have implications for Ireland. You know the weather is coming from the Arctic when you step out on those really sharp and icy winter mornings and feel the freshness on your face. If there is no ice in the North Pole, then the air travelling from there to Ireland will be warmer, bringing temperatures up. "With warmer temperatures, we could be looking at the arrival of exotic diseases we haven't seen before. It wouldn't take much to push temperatures up to make them suitable for mosquitoes and other tropical insects," he says. Dr Andrew Cooper of the Coastal Studies Research Group at the University of Ulster believes rapid melting of the Arctic icecap could make Irish weather warmer in the next three decades but also lead to changes in sea level. 'If the Arctic sea ice does disappear as quickly as predicted, in the short to medium-term we are likely to see increasing warming and probably a decline in average wind speeds. But the biggest concerns relate to sea level change. Melting of sea ice in the North Pole doesn't affect sea levels, but the addition of water that is currently tied up in the ice on Greenland has the potential to raise global sea levels significantly (by up to seven metres if it melted entirely). Given that global sea levels are already rising, the added input from Greenland melting would have serious implications for the Irish coast, which is presently experiencing widespread erosion." The new report was carried out by a team of American climate scientists from the National Centre for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) as part of the fourth assessment of the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Among its most alarming findings is the fact that the Arctic could not only lose all its summer sea ice but that it would happen 40 years earlier than previously predicted, by the year 2040. Previous climate models of the sea ice in the Arctic have suggested that the earliest date for an ice-free summer would be around 2080. From 1978 - when satellite measurements began - until 2002, the area of the Arctic covered by floating sea ice fell steadily. But in recent years the loss has accelerated, with a summer minimum recorded in September 2005 and a winter minimum in March 2006. Scientists estimate that an area of summer sea ice the size of Alaska has been lost over the past 28 years. "We have already witnessed major losses in sea ice," says leading researcher Marika Holland of the NCAR, who used powerful super computers to model future scenarios of how the great melt is likely to develop. "But our research suggests that the decrease over the next few decades could be far more dramatic than anything that has happened so far," she says. "As the ice retreats, the ocean transports more heat to the Arctic and the open water absorbs more sunlight, further accelerating the rate of warming and leading to the loss of more ice. "Eventually the system will be kicked over the edge. These changes are surprisingly rapid." The only positive news in the report, which concluded that rising greenhouse gas emissions are responsible for the melting of the Arctic ice cap, was that humankind can still affect and slow down the melting trend by tackling carbon emissions. However, this week new figures showed that the level of carbon dioxide emissions produced by energy in Ireland grew at a higher rate than energy production for the first time in four years. Despite Ireland's vulnerability as an island at the edge of a stormy ocean, some academics believe despite rising sea levels, global warming may not have as dramatic an impact as feared. "We are fortunate in that much of the Irish coastline, especially along the West Coast is protected by large tall cliffs which act as a shield against rising tides and are resistant to erosion," says Dr Robin Edwards, lecturer in Geography and Geology at Trinity College Dublin. "We do know Ireland is tilting. The south of the island is sinking and the north is rising so the most vulnerable places in the future will be Cork and the Shannon Estuary rather than Dublin due to its more central position on the island. "It is too early to predict the changes on the Irish climate as a result of melting ice at the North Pole but we can expect considerably warmer weather." 
