climate change
{  
    September 24 2016 01:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/climate-change-and-you/climate-change-and-you-10-ways-you-can-help-35074245.html }
How can you help make the difference when it comes to climate change?   <b>1 Be energy efficient </b> It’s assumed you already switch off the lights, but have you changed your bulbs to LEDs? While more expensive, they last longer and use far less power so you will see the impact in your bills. Wash clothes and dishes using eco-cycles, which use less water and energy. Buy the most efficient appliances you can, turn down the thermostat and only heat the house when you need to. 2 Reduce your waste Rubbish sent to landfill produces the potent greenhouse gas methane. Recycle where possible, and get a compost bin. Most operators collect brown bin waste, or you can produce compost for use in the garden. Try and buy refills of household staples like coffee or washing powder, which use less packaging. 3 Green your commute Walk, cycle or use public transport where possible. Both emissions and congestion are cut when fewer cars are on the road, and you’ll save money, too. Try and car pool, and buy the most efficient and least-polluting car you can afford. 4 Buy Local Try to do the bulk of your shopping in your community, which not only keeps jobs in local areas but also reduces car use. 5 Buy seasonal Try and eat fruit and vegetables in season. Food often travels thousands of kilometres before reaching the local supermarket, and shipping and aviation have a major impact on climate change. Only buy what you’ll eat. 6 Go meat free While not advocating enforced vegetarianism or veganism, going meat free at least once a week is healthier, cheaper and will help reduce agricultural emissions. 7 Use the off switch Turn out the lights, and power down the TV, laptop, tablet and other appliances when you’re not using them. Turn off the water when you brush your teeth — treating water to make it safe to drink uses enormous amounts of energy. 8 Go green in the garden Plant native plants and trees, which suck in carbon, try to compost and cut the grass using an electric or push mower instead of a petrol-powered one. 9 Look after what you’ve got Regularly service the car and boiler, and defrost the freezer. Try to get appliances repaired instead of replacing them. 10 Get involved Lobby your local TDs for change, and ask councillors what they’re doing to push your local authority towards a low-carbon future. Take part in a survey on climate change at independent.ie, and set out ideas you have to tackle global warming.  Online Editors 
