climate change
{ Kathy Donaghy 
    November 28 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/climate-change-will-mean-huge-shake-up-on-homes-experts-warn-26028960.html }
CLIMATE change is going to demand a wide range of new  responses from Irish society, experts warn. We will need to become more aware of energy conservation, where our water comes from and where our houses are built, one of the country's leading climate scientists said yesterday. CLIMATE change is going to demand a wide range of new responses from Irish society, experts warn. We will need to become more aware of energy conservation, where our water comes from and where our houses are built, one of the country's leading climate scientists said yesterday. NUI Maynooth geography department senior lecturer Dr John Sweeney, author of the recent Environmental Protection Agency report on climate change here, said the connection between flooding and the planning process had to be looked at. "At local government level there is not a lot of concerns built into the development planning process," he added. "Guidelines need to come from central government to local government." There was a breakdown between what was desirable nationally and what was happening at the local level. Climate change in which Ireland is getting wetter and warmer means we have to look at everything from water supply, crops and agriculture, energy conservation, fuel consumption and future settlement plans, he warned. Also, with drier summers predicted, water availability would become crucial in the years ahead. Dr Sweeney's comments came during another day of sustained heavy rainfall - causing severe flooding in parts of Dublin and Cork and leading to the Government announcing a total review of floods policy. The EPA report published earlier this week pointed out that flooding, once a 'freak' event, is about to become the norm. Meanwhile, Dublin's deputy engineer Tom Leahy said they are undertaking two studies to allow them plan the way forward in terms of changing climate. One on drainage will cover the city area, local authority areas Fingal, South Dublin and Dun Laoghaire/Rathdown as well counties Kildare, Wicklow and Meath. New ideas would have to be developed to deal with climate change and rather than allow all rainwater come down drainpipes and straight into rivers, mechanisms would have to be adopted to retain the water and allow it run off over a longer period of time. A coast study, with ?1m funding, would look at the coastline in Fingal and the city and examine the relationship between the coast and rivers, including the Tolka, Liffey and Dodder. A series of measures would be proposed to increase the level of protection to any vulnerable area. Australian flood warning expert Chris Wright will address a Dublin conference today on the hazards. 
