climate change
{ Treacy Hogan Environment Correspondent 
    January 16 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/iconic-birds-to-be-lost-forever-amid-climate-change-crisis-26345064.html }
SOME of Ireland's best-loved birds could soon be extinct because of climate change, a major report reveals. But we have already become home to birds which have migrated here from the Mediterranean. A Climatic Atlas of European Breeding Birds predicts a number of dramatic changes to Ireland's bird life over the course of this century. According to the authors, Ireland may stand to lose iconic species such as the Long-eared Owl, Red Grouse and Curlew forever. Future generations may become accustomed to an entirely new suite of species, such as Cetti's Warbler, White Stork and the curiously named Zitting Cisticola, a tiny brown bird of reedbeds and wetland vegetation. Force BirdWatch Ireland said yesterday the Atlas showed that in the course of the 21st century the changing climatic conditions would force most species to move into new areas. "This will prove difficult for many of them, and combined with other threats this will increase their risk of extinction in Europe," said BirdWatch spokesman Niall Hatch. The study predicts that without vigorous and immediate action against climate change, the potential future range of the average European bird species will shift by nearly 550km north-east by the end of this century and will reduce in size by a fifth compared to the current range. Arctic and sub-Arctic birds, as well as some Iberian species, are projected to suffer the greatest potential range loss. Projected changes for some species found only in Europe, or with only small populations elsewhere, suggest climate change is likely to increase their risk of extinction. "We may already be witnessing the beginnings of these changes here in Ireland," Mr Hatch said, adding that already we had the arrival in southern counties of the Cattle Egret, originally a bird of the Mediterranean region. Oran O'Sullivan, BirdWatch Ireland chief executive, said the Climatic Atlas proved the critical importance of the Natura 2000 conservation network in Europe and the implementation of the EU Birds and Habitats Directives. "This is a precondition for helping our wildlife to survive the impacts of climate change," he said. 
