climate change
{ Marguerite Sayers 
    September 16 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/marguerite-sayers-it-has-taken-the-young-to-shake-our-apathy-on-global-warming-38500884.html }
With climate change now indisputably the biggest issue of our time, probably the most startling recent development on this matter is that it has taken the youth of the world to shake us out of our apathy about the increasingly dire implications of global warming. And with the UN staging a Climate Action Summit next Monday, it is telling that an international protest planned for Friday calling for global action on 'climate breakdown' is being led by the young, including Irish schoolchildren. What this highlights is the growing anxiety young people are now feeling about the potentially catastrophic effects of climate breakdown on their futures - and the lack of political and societal urgency across the world in taking appropriate measures. The realities of climate change are extremely worrying. Greenland's massive ice sheet - 20 times the area of the island of Ireland and up to 3km deep in places - has melted by a record amount this year, exacerbating fears for the future of coastal cities, including in Ireland. Across the Pacific Islands, there is so much concern relating to rising sea-levels that the Republic of the Marshall Islands is even considering building an artificial elevated island and relocating its 55,000 citizens there. Here in Ireland the latest greenhouse gas emission figures show a 6.4pc increase from 2014 to 2017. EPA projections show that under no scenario will we achieve our 2020 targets, while our 2030 targets appear daunting. There is also compelling evidence of the impacts of climate change in relation to extreme weather events. But there is hope. And it is in the form of the diverse expertise that underpins modern engineering, and the youthful creativity and exuberance that the next generation of engineers are bringing. The Government's Climate Action Plan has outlined many of the urgent actions needed and engineers are critical to all of these. Engineers Ireland's 25,000 members are at the forefront of building a sustainable, resilient world for this and future generations. Engineers Ireland promotes appropriate climate action measures by supporting the skills development of members to ensure they are future-proofed for the climate challenge. We also support the drive for the next generation of problem-solving engineers through various initiatives. Of course, engineering ingenuity is not limited to tackling the day-to-day challenges. Engineering is also about making the impossible a reality, tackling the greatest challenges of our time. The climate-change crisis is a call-to-action for engineers in Ireland and across the world to use their ingenuity and problem-solving abilities to tackle the greatest challenge ever faced by modern humanity. I am appealing for colleagues in all facets of engineering to apply their innovation skills to climate change as an urgent focus for 2020. Marguerite Sayers is president of Engineers Ireland Irish Independent 
