climate change
{ Paul Melia  in Copenhagen 
    December 18 2009 04:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/climate-deal-edges-closer-as-china-and-us-soften-stances-26592463.html }
The Copenhagen climate conference was edging toward a global deal on curbing carbon emissions last night after the world's two biggest polluters made 11th-hour concessions to end deadlock. The moves by China and the US prompted Gordon Brown to claim that leaders meeting in the Danish capital were "more than halfway" to striking a substantial deal. The heads of 192 countries will attempt today to agree plans to curb greenhouse gas emissions and offer financial support to poorer countries to help them wean their economies off carbon-intensive industries and technology. Yesterday's talks began with officials deeply pessimistic, but an unexpected intervention from the US altered the mood of the summit. Last night Taoiseach Brian Cowen said Ireland will be pushing for a comprehensive global agreement to tackle climate change. Speaking as he arrived in Copenhagen, he said the problems of climate change affected everyone on the planet and the issue should unite, not divide, nations. Moves by the US and China, to overcome the stalemate which has stalled negotiations for the past two days were welcomed by poor nations, but they still warned that much more needed to be done. Mr Cowen said the leaders of today "owed" future generations a deal which would reduce emissions and provide finance to help developing countries adapt to climate change. Ireland has already pledged €100m over the next three years, but will have to increase this amount by 2020 when up to $100bn (€70bn) a year will be required by poor countries. "Global problems require global solutions. Climate change is the most global problem of all," Mr Cowen said. "Growing emissions, increasing temperatures and rising sea levels do not respect borders. If the impacts, risks and challenges of climate change affect all of us on this planet, then our response should unite, not divide us. "Ireland will play its full and fair part in that effort. Ireland and the other EU member states are in the vanguard of the push for a new and comprehensive agreement. We owe this to the future generations of Ireland, Europe and the world." Negotiations lasted well into last night after talks finally resumed. For much of Wednesday and yesterday countries argued over what procedures should be followed instead of focusing on emission cuts and finance. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the US was willing to support the global fund to help poor countries adapt to climate change, but only if other nations signed a deal which included verification that emissions had been cut. China has resisted calls for its cuts to be confirmed by outside agencies. "In the context of a strong accord in which all major economies pledge meaningful mitigation actions and provide full transparency as to those actions, the US is prepared to work with other countries towards a goal of mobilising $100bn a year to address the needs of developing countries," Ms Clinton said. Sources told the Irish Independent said that one legal document was an unlikely outcome. Instead two texts are being considered -- one would result in the Kyoto Protocol, to which Ireland is a signatory, extended beyond 2012 with a separate agreement for the US and developing nations including China, India and Brazil. Last night, Environment Minister John Gormley, addressing the UN, said it was clear that agreement would only be reached with "commitment and with the necessary imagination". He said Ireland would commit funding over and above money already pledged to developing nations -- a key demand from aid agencies. "For the first time in human history we are attempting to negotiate a global deal which recognises our total interdependence," he said. "We are committed to providing new and additional finance to enable developing countries, particularly those least developed countries, to adapt to climate change. We don't have much time, so let's get on with it." Irish Independent 
