climate change
{  
    September 14 2007 09:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/climate-change-theory-wrong-26317743.html }
James Gleeson's points about landfills and climate change do not stand up to examination (Letters, September 11). He claims that landfills are a natural phenomenon, citing bogs and landslides as examples. Neither bogs nor landslides involve the burying of masses of toxic and volatile chemicals with all the resultant dangers and so the comparison is invalid. He cites Dr Antonio Zichichi's comments this year, saying that he pointed out that climate change is driven by natural phenomena. Dr Zichichi is not a climate scientist but has published a paper pointing out problems with current climate modelling. His paper is available online and contains the following, emphasised in bold text: "It is not possible to exclude that the observed phenomena may have natural causes. It may be that man has little or nothing to do with it." Even if Dr Zichichi is right (and all of the thousands of climate scientists are wrong), he is simply saying that their methods are wrong. His paper does not put forward any evidence that humans are not actually to blame. The claim that "human activity has less than 10pc impact on environment" also comes from Dr Zichichi. Consider tha a few thousand years ago there were vastly fewer humans on the planet and each one had a far smaller impact than today. So in the blink of the planet's eye we have gone from having almost zero impact to 10pc. This is an enormous, unprecedented change. It's hard to imagine how this could occur without a significant impact on the planet. Mr Gleeson also cites Dr David Bellamy's stance on global warming. Dr Bellamy wrote to the Sunday Times on 2005 to say he had "decided to draw back from the debate on global warming." The fact is that climate scientists are so sure about the human role in climate change that the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has been able to get their conclusions accepted by countries such as the USA and Saudi Arabia who have a vested interest in business as usual. That just would not be possible if there was any serious doubt that we are to blame. Fergal Daly, Windmill Park Crumlin 12 
