climate change
{ Ian O'Doherty 
    September 25 2014 11:08 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/ian-odoherty/kennedy-kenny-and-di-caprio-selling-myths-and-taxes-to-a-frightened-world-30617090.html }
One of the great myths about our post-religious culture claims that once people stop believing in something, they will believe in anything.  After all, people who are no longer members of a Church aren't in danger of running off with the first cult they see proselytising on Grafton Street. But that doesn't mean they have shaken off the primal urge to belong to the one true faith. The one true faith that brooks no opposition, stifles dissent and demands civil action against heretics is undoubtedly the climate change movement. So it would have been naive to the point of insanity to expect Enda Kenny to bring a much needed dose of reality to this week's Climate Change jamboree in New York. A typically expensive extravaganza of hypocrisy and self-aggrandisement, featuring the fatuous and self-righteous nonsense we have come to expect from any UN shindig, the Taoiseach was just one of numerous world leaders and, even more impressively, actors to take to the stage and make promises he knows he can't deliver. Of course, making promises they know they can't keep is the hallmark of any canny political operator and Kenny was as smooth as they come when he warned that: "The hand of the future beckons, the clock ticks and we have no time to waste." So far, so Bono. But Kenny wasn't done: "Global warming is a stark reality that can only be dealt with by a collective global response. We are all interdependent and interconnected. We share a common humanity and each of us must play our part." Ordinarily, he'd be commended for his assertion that Ireland must play our part in a 'European debate.' But there's one tiny problem with that last sentiment - there is no debate because anyone who raises a dissenting or even questioning voice will be quickly silenced by the fanatics or simply ignored by the worst polluters. As the hapless Ban Ki-moon danced on the streets of New York with climate protesters and spoke about us 'all being one family' there were several notable absences from the party, most notably China and India. Those two countries have long eclipsed America and Europe when it comes to polluting the environment. But they also know that as long as their economy continues to grow thanks to fossil fuels, they won't do anything to impede their own progress. Also, they really don't care what anyone else thinks. The whole thing was a pointless farce but we should be grateful for being reminded that every movement contains its own fundamentalists. True, the average climate change scaremonger is unlikely to lop off your head, but the sight of a renowned idiot like Robert Kennedy Junior and Leonardo di Caprio lecturing the rest of the world on their profligate carbon consumption was something from a satirist's dream. As Kenny was doing his best in difficult circumstances, Kennedy was basking in the spotlight afforded to him by being a scion of one of America's most notorious families. And he wasn't going to blow this opportunity to peddle his demented and totalitarian world view. Climate 'deniers', he opined, are 'selling out the public' before adding, for good measure, that he "wished there was a law that you could punish them with." Of course, we're well used to the obscenity of rich people lecturing the Third World on the evils of carbon while millions burn cow dung in their homes. But we should be grateful that Kennedy allowed the mask of fanaticism to slip, ever so briefly, from the face of climatological zealots. Only a fool would say that our planet's climate is not changing. But the debate isn't about this change, it's about the cause and what we can do about it. In the rather unlikely event that Al Gore has any sense of shame, he must bitterly regret calling his Oscar winning piece of bunkum An Inconvenient Truth. After all, there are now so many truths which debunk his wildest claims that he must regret ever getting involved in the movement in the first place. Yet still the climate change zealots, in their eagerness to demonise and exclude anyone who remains sceptical, call for more taxes, more punitive measures and, crucially, more ways to stifle competitiveness in Western industries. So why do so many people so unthinkingly, so uncritically, so eagerly become hard-liners on this issue when you can't get a straight word out of them on anything else? The answer is as depressing as it is simple - waffling about the weather comes with no cost and at no danger while earning brownie points from single issue mad people. It's much easier for John Kerry to burble that 'climate change is the biggest threat to world peace . . . a weapon of mass destruction' than it is for him to tackle terrorism or, even more crucially, those savage cultures which allow extremism to flourish. It's easier, I suppose, to talk about polar bears than polar opposites. That's why Leonardo di Caprio can announce to the world, without collapsing into paroxysms of laughter, that he is the new 'UN Ambassador for Peace with an emphasis on climate' while also owning five homes, several yachts and enjoying multiple first class flights. But is there anything Enda Kenny can do to impact on our own carbon emissions? Well, he could announce a revolutionary nuclear power programme for this country. Or do Irish environmentalists have a problem with that, as well? Irish Independent 
