climate change
{  
    March 18 2015 06:12 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/hope-of-progress-in-battle-against-climate-change-31077309.html }
America's chief climate negotiator has warned of the long battle ahead to cut greenhouse gas emissions.  In the past week Todd Stern told BBC News that by the end of the month, he expects the US to make a "quite ambitious" declaration on climate change. He also praised China's projected offer to the December climate summit in Paris. But he said the conference would not itself solve the climate-change problem. That, he argued, would need ongoing effort over decades.  Nations are desperate for the Paris meeting to avoid a repeat of the shambolic gathering in Copenhagen in 2009 that failed in its billing as the summit to save the planet. This time, rich nations, and Ireland would have to be included in this category, have agreed to make their offers well in advance to reduce the chance of last-minute chaos. Meanwhile, there is some more positive news on global emissions. The growth in global carbon emissions stalled last year, according to data from the International Energy Agency (IEA). It marks the first time in 40 years that annual CO2 emissions growth has remained stable, in the absence of a major economic crisis, the agency said. Annual global emissions remained at 32 gigatonnes in 2014, unchanged from the previous year.But the IEA warned that while the results were "encouraging", this was "no time for complacency". "This is both a very welcome surprise and a significant one," said IEA Chief Economist Fatih Birol. An important factor could be that China's coal consumption fell in 2014, driven by their efforts to fight pollution, use energy more efficiently and deploy renewables. It provides much-needed momentum to negotiators preparing to forge a global climate deal in Paris in December: for the first time, greenhouse gas emissions are decoupling from economic growth." Analysts attribute the slowdown in emissions to changing patterns of energy consumption in China and OECD countries. Efforts to reduce emissions elsewhere will have played a role, but there are also more random factors such as the weather and the relative price of oil, coal and gas. In the 40 years it had been collecting data on carbon dioxide emissions, annual emissions had stalled or fallen only three other times, which were all associated with global downturns: * After the US recession in the early 1980s * In 1992 after the collapse of the former Soviet Union * In 2009 during the global financial crisis Full details of the IEA report will be released in June, ahead of UN negotiations to sign a new international climate change agreement at talks in Paris in December. Countries are aiming to reach agreement on a deal that will come into force from 2020.The aim is to limit the increase of the average global surface temperature to no more than 2C (3.6F) compared with pre-industrial levels, to avoid "dangerous" climate change. Corkman 
