climate change
{  
    February 18 2010 11:39 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/world-news/un-climate-chief-de-boer-quits-26633331.html }
The UN's top climate official has resigned, prompting calls for a successor to be found quickly to drive forward talks to secure a new international deal on global warming. Yvo de Boer has been executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the body leading international negotiations on the issue, for almost four years. He said his decision to quit was not the result of the failure of the recent climate talks in Copenhagen to deliver a new global deal on cutting greenhouse gas emissions. His resignation takes effect from July 1. Mr de Boer said he had already begun looking for another job before the Copenhagen conference. He said he was announcing his departure now to allow UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to find a successor well before talks in Mexico where countries will attempt again to reach a binding agreement on climate at the end of the year. The former Dutch civil servant was widely credited with raising the profile of climate issues but, despite his diplomacy, suspicion and disagreement amongst countries on tackling global warming meant no binding deal was secured at the UN talks in Denmark in December. Friends of the Earth's international climate campaigner Asad Rehman, said Mr de Boer's departure echoed the frustration felt by millions around the world at the failure to achieve a strong climate deal in Copenhagen. But he said: "The UN is the only legal body that can forge effective and fair international action to tackle climate change. Mr de Boer's resignation must not be seen as an opportunity to strike weak and dangerous climate deals outside of the UN process as we saw in Copenhagen. What is needed now more than ever is a strong and fair global agreement in line with the very real risks we all face." And he said: "Yvo de Boer's successor must not be afraid to hold rich countries to task for their failure to set real emissions targets - it's their legal and moral responsibility to cut emissions first and fastest." But Climate Change Secretary Ed Miliband said: "Yvo de Boer's patient work helped produce the Copenhagen Accord which contains commitments covering 80% of global emissions, something never previously achieved. We must quickly find a suitable successor who can oversee the negotiations and reform the UNFCCC to ensure it is up to the massive task of dealing with what are some of the most complex negotiations ever." PA Media 
