climate change
{  
    March 23 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/lifestyle/we-want-climate-action-now-37931315.html }
Climate change. It just may be that a profound change in the political climate began on Friday. The youthful demonstrations which took place throughout Ireland and around the world signalled a fresh approach. The protestors did not come knocking on the gates of power looking for more finance. The coming generation has signalled that there are more important issues than mere money to be addressed. And those of us in the fuddy-duddy ranks of the aged know in their hearts that the youngsters are correct.  The reality is that tackling global warming will probably bring poorer living standards as measured by traditional standards. But the sooner it is tackled, the more likely that life on Earth will be safeguarded for the longer term. 'I'm delighted that the younger generation are going to Dublin today,' declared one mother, whose daughters attend the Dominican College in Wicklow town. 'It is not just the old eco warriors all the time.' It seems that the Green Flags earned by primary and secondary schools have helped to foster a can-do attitude to environmental issues amongst the student population. Friday's initiative marked a step up from composting bins and recycling drinks cans or turning off lights to keep the ESB bill down, and they were clearly ready for the challenge. Most of them would be hard pushed to place themselves on the age old ideological spectrum that runs from Marxism to free market economics. Yet when it comes to matters ecological they know exactly what the issues are and where they stand. Political parties which have for so long calibrated themselves on the scale of left versus right may have to adapt or wither away. Similarly, party defining battle lines which hark back to the Civil War of the 1920s have little or no bearing on youthful thinking. On Friday, the voters of the future were looking ahead, not wallowing in history, though the climate change event posed a few difficulties for management in some of their schools. 'The school know that the demonstration is on but they don't have anything to do with it,' explained one of the girls from the Dominican in Wicklow. 'My mam is driving a full carload of us and I know many others are going by bus or by train.' While her teachers turned a benign blind eye, the call to rally went out on social media and the response meant that many classes had high levels of absenteeism on Friday, especially those for fifth and sixth years. Similarly, Loreto Bray principal Emma Raughter proved very reluctant to give the Global Schools' Strike for Climate Action (to give the event its full and proper title) her expressed endorsement. In a letter to parents on the issue, she made it clear that a gathering of thousands of students in the middle of Dublin without school or parental supervision was not appropriate for her young ladies. 'The school has no part in the organisation or support of this protest and will not be facilitating or accompanying students who attend,' was the stern message posted on the Loreto website also. Yet Ms Raughter also conveyed the message that the issue at the heart of the movement was one that very much chimed with the school philosophy. So, while the crowds gathered in St Stephen's Green, the campus on the Vevay Road was treated to a climate action day programme of debates and quizzes with a petition organised for submission to the Oireachtas. And the reality was, of course, that many students heeded the siren call of Facebook and Instagram, taking the day off class to join the multitude on the streets of Dublin. The Loreto line was to stay at home and a similar attitude was adopted in many other schools around the county. However a very different approach altogether was adopted around the corner at the North Wicklow Educate Together Secondary School (NWETSS). They not only approved of the strike, they laid on buses to bring all of second year to the event, with students rehearsing a samba to weave their way on the march from Stephen's Green to the Dáil. They also set off armed with a freshly composed song called 'The World's a Mess' which they practised on the bus which brought them from Putland Road to the Green. The effort, masterminded in part by teacher Kate Minnock, produced a couple of very capable young spokeswomen for climate change action. As media coverage of the demonstrations grew, so Molly Mercier Redmond and Lucy Sky Dunne emerged to articulate the message being promoted by the demonstrators on RTE and Newstalk. Molly noted that Leinster House was already familiar territory as the school recently sent a delegation to the national parliament to brief TDs and Senators on ecological matters. They were disappointed that only 20 of the legislators turned up but at least they seemed to listen and be supportive, with an invitation to return extended. The message the politicians were given was that fossil fuels should be eliminated in favour of renewable energy and that the change cannot be put on the long finger.  While her classmates waved their placards, Lucy Sky revealed that she was one of the composers of the 'World's a Mess' song along with Eve Wilson and Charlie Roycroft Byrne. She wore a 'There is no Planet B' badge and spoke of how the growing climate change movement has put the school in touch with their peers all around the world. A few kilometres south of Bray, Coláiste Chraobh Abhann teacher Martin Healy responded to student demand when he led a party out on strike. The original idea in Kilcoole was to go to the big gathering in Dublin and some individuals went ahead to the capital under their own steam, a couple of them setting off early to walk all the way. However, in the end, Martin and his nine strong party of demonstrators settled on taking the public bus to attend the Greystones rally close at hand, organised on the initiative of Annette Kelly. There they banged their bodhráns and rattled their tambourines laying down a rhythmic backing track  for a crowd made up largely of primary school goers and their parents. The gathering in Burnaby Park drew its share of teenagers, not only from Kilcoole but also from the cosmopolitan SEK international school at Winegates. At least one stray green jumper signalled that Saint David's in Kimberley Road was represented. However, the vast majority of those present and calling out the chants - 'What do we want, climate action. When do we want it, NOW!' - came from the saintly local primaries Saint Patrick's, Saint Brigid's and Saint Kevin's, not to mention Kilcoole PS and Educate Together. A trio of mothers, Stephanie Flynn, Janet Watters and Caroline Donegan, all from Saint Brigid's, had no apology to make for taking their children out of class early. 'This ties in with the whole ethos at the school,' said Janet as everyone prepared to march down the road to the county council offices.  'They made the signs on school time - we are starting them young,' declared Stephanie staunchly. They were not alone in assuming the attitude that climate change should take priority over the standard timetable for at least one day. Earlier at the DART station in Bray, your reporter met a group of parents and young children from Educate Together primary in Wicklow. They were all in good form, looking forward to a day out in Dublin, with the march on Leinster House the reason for their expedition. 'I have taken a day off work to do this,' mused one father , 'because I want the children to realise that this issue of climate change is serious. It's not like going to football.' The schools of County Wicklow are waking up to the fact that the issues surrounding climate change cannot be ignored in the curriculum being taught or the life on campus. Principal Kieran Burke acknowledges, for instance, that everyone at Blessington Community College should join in drastically reducing the amount of plastic being used. The school initials BCC have been adapted to produce a new motto 'Be Carbon Conscious' which is emblazoned on the water bottles issued to members of the first and second years. In North Wicklow Educate Together, Kate Minnock has developed the newly minted subject Sustainability as well as conducting her more traditional classes in art, putting flesh on the bones of aspirational, feel good ecology. Meanwhile, in Kilcoole, Martin Healy takes classes in Global Issues, exploring topics such as the proliferation of plastic and the elimination of many species through the thoughtless of mankind.  Climate change and the agitation for climate action are not going away any time soon. Wicklow People 
