climate change
{ Frank McGovern 
    February 14 2014 12:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/how-small-island-like-ours-can-weather-climate-armageddon-30008719.html }
The storms and floods which have dominated our weather since last December have regrettably caused much havoc and personal trauma for those whose lives and livelihoods have been damaged. We have experienced record tides and hurricane-force winds and the financial costs are also increasing with each storm front that hits.  Many commentators have linked these events to climate change. The focus of the debate has been on "is it or isn't it climate change?". Climate change is a factor in what has been happening but other factors are also at play. So, the answer is not a simple yes or no. Through large-scale emissions of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere we have managed to change the Earth's climate for the foreseeable future. The recent report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) shows that on average the global temperature has increased by almost one degree centigrade in the last 100 years. In our daily lives such a change in temperature is insignificant. On a planetary scale it is enormous. While the increase in global temperature gets most attention in the media, for an island nation such as Ireland with its major cities on the coasts, sea level rise is perhaps the most challenging aspect of climate change. The IPCC has found that global sea level has risen by almost 20cm since 1900. This is projected to continue and the rate of increase may accelerate up to the end of this century and beyond. This will mean that coastal areas will have increasing problems with flooding and erosion while tidal height records are likely to continue to be broken throughout this century. Why is this happening? The oceans have taken up 90pc of the extra energy that is now being trapped in the Earth's climate system. This has consequences. Water expands when heated. Warming of the oceans is the main cause of recent global sea-level rise. Melting of glaciers and terrestrial ice sheets will add to this. For Ireland, the 2013 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) research report 'The Status of Ireland's Climate' shows the extent of sea-level rise in this area of the North Atlantic. Sea-level rise in the period since 1960 has conservatively been between 1.7mm to 2mm per year. This suggests an overall rise of 80 to 100mm over this period. This factor will have contributed to the severity of the coastal flooding that we have experienced. The intensity of recent storms, which has coincided with high tides, has created the conditions under which the flooding has occurred. This is manifested as high tides that are channelled up through river systems, during storm surges. In combination with sea-level rise it is not a surprise that tidal records have been broken. The question of whether the frequency and intensity of the storms themselves is a feature of climate change or not is a matter of active scientific investigation. This is at the cutting edge of climate science research and seasonal and 10-year long weather forecasting. Ireland is working with other EU countries to advance this research. The analysis of costs of the potential impacts or adaptation is bound to be more speculative. A recent EPA report suggests that the costs of impacts will be billions of euros. The economic, social and environmental costs of either protection of coastal infrastructure or in some cases moving it to another location are enormous. The extent to which this will be necessary is not known. This is largely because we don't know how effective international actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will be. The response to this challenge needs to be pragmatic and visionary. There has to be an immediate response to the loss and devastation caused by recent events. In tandem with this, a considered process for planning the longer term transition to a climate-resilient Ireland including sustainable management of coastal areas is needed. Concerted efforts and investments are also required to enable research to answer key questions and reduce uncertainties.   In Ireland, and globally, we need to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases if the impact of climate change is to remain manageable. This involves all sectors of society, including agriculture, which is one of the most vulnerable to climate change. The 2013 National Economic and Social Council secretariat suggested that Ireland should embrace a vision of carbon neutrality by 2050. Ireland can bring such a vision to the EU and global table along with humanitarian and practical experiences and solutions on how to address these challenges. It is in our collective interest to address the diverse challenges of climate change in a positive manner. Doing so will open up opportunities for Ireland. Not doing so means that the response options will be increasingly limited, fraught and costly. DR FRANK MCGOVERN IS HEAD OF CLIMATE CHANGE RESEARCH AT THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) Irish Independent 
