climate change
{ Paul Melia and Sarah MacDonald 
    March 30 2014 10:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ireland-facing-more-devastation-unless-it-acts-on-climate-crisis-campaigners-warn-30140301.html }
MORE coastal and river flooding will hit the country unless the Government tackles global warming and gets its international colleagues to commit to reductions in dangerous greenhouse gas emissions. A new report from a United Nations panel will today highlight the impact climate change is having across the globe – and sets out the future risks unless we change our behaviour. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, prepared by 800 scientists from 39 countries, says that increased flooding is likely to hit Ireland and other EU countries and will have severe economic consequences. The Stop Climate Chaos group, made up of 28 organisations including Trocaire, Concern, Friends of the Earth and Oxfam Ireland, called on the Government to set out clear targets to reduce emissions. "The report looks at how climate change impacts on people, plants, animals, the environment and the economy and how we can adapt," spokeswoman Niamh Garvey said. "Earlier this year, we witnessed first hand the chaos wreaked by flooding on people's homes, businesses and day-to-day lives. "We are also seeing rising insurance costs and growing unwillingness among investors to place assets in areas affected by flooding. These are serious issues for coastal and island economies like Ireland." She added that the Government must introduce and implement legislation to reduce emissions, which is expected next month. "They must also work with their partners at EU and international levels to achieve a global deal on climate change which they have promised in 2015." EMISSIONS Trocaire executive director Eamon Meehan told the Irish Independent that recent flooding and storms are one of the harmful effects of climate change and part of a wider pattern of extreme weather events being experienced from the US to Australia to the Philippines. The Government's new climate bill is due to be published before Easter and, according to Mr Meehan, must "clearly state what level of carbon emissions the country will work towards". "Our concerns are that there would be no specific targets in the bill for reducing emissions and no independent monitoring of the implementation of the legislation," he said. He described climate change as "the greatest challenge facing our generation" and warned that failure to act effectively will result in "the destruction of societies, the migration of vast numbers of people and the inability of millions of people to produce their own food". "It is a disaster waiting to happen," Mr Meehan said. Trocaire is calling on the Government to set up a special committee, independent of the Government, involving entrepreneurs, climate scientists, industrialists, the trade union movement, universities and NGOs, to monitor the implementation of the climate bill and monitor the targets set.     Irish Independent 
