climate change
{  
    November 13 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/changes-to-climate-are-not-being-ignored-26104084.html }
INTERNATIONAL climate change negotiations are resuming in The Hague today, and most environment ministers from around the globe will be present to continue to press for effective action. I, with my EU colleagues, will press for an environmentally sound outcome so we can ratify the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible, and certainly before 2002, the 10th anniversary of the Rio Earth Summit when the first climate agreement was reached. Calls for us to change our ways in response to climate change are right. They all echo my statement when I launched the Government's National Climate Change Strategy on November 1 last: "Business as usual is not an option for Ireland." Environmentalist and planner Ciaran Cuffe is wrong - completely wrong - to suggest that I, as Minister for the Environment and Local Government, don't take climate change seriously. The most authoritative grouping of scientists brought together for any purpose (more than 2,000 members of the Inter Governmental Panel on Climate Change) has concluded that we, as humans, are having a discernible effect on global climate. I fully accept this finding, and I recognise that this change in climate will accelerate. We have studied, and continue to study, the specific impacts on Ireland. By and large, these changes will not be for the better: increased storminess, rising sea levels, winter flooding and summer droughts. Climate change is caused by the emissions into the atmosphere of greenhouse gases from pretty much every economic activity, transport, industry, electricity generation, agriculture and space heating in our homes and offices. We must continue to have economic growth, but it is essential that we decouple this growth from increases in green house gas emissions. My Climate Change Strategy will do this, and Ciaran Cuffe is again wrong to say that it is lacking specifics or puts off tackling emissions - the heart of the problem. Since I came back from Kyoto in December 1997 where governments reached a historic decision to reduce emissions over the next decade, a number of initiatives have been taken here in Ireland to support our own commitment to this process. For example: * Building Regulations were tightened up to save 10pc energy in buildings * Our National Waste Policy "Changing Our Ways" emphasised policy choices to reduce methane emissions from landfill by more than 80pc over the next 15 years * The Minister of State with responsibility for sustainable energy, Joe Jacob, published the Green Paper on Sustainable Energy and is greatly accelerating windfarm development * VRT has been restructured to favour smaller, more fuel efficient cars * The NDP provides for significant investment in upgrading public transport (£2.2bn). The Government recognises that these, and other changes made since Kyoto, will not be sufficient to meet our target. Change is required across all sectors of the economy. I had widespread and detailed consultation with all sectors before finalising the climate strategy. The strategy contains significant commitments for every sector, and makes explicit provision for cross-sectoral instruments, in particular taxation and emissions trading. These will enable us to make the necessary reductions in emissions by the period 2008-2012, the Kyoto Protocol deadline. In the energy sector, we are committed to policies supportive of the phase out of coal in electricity generation at Moneypoint and the switch towards less carbon rich fuels. Renewable resources such as wind will generate much more electricity. To tackle transport emissions, we have targeted a wide range of fuel efficiency, demand management and modal shift measures. To improve the energy efficiency of our homes and buildings, further revisions of the Building Regulations will reduce energy consumption in new houses by up to 20pc in 2002. To cut agriculture emissions, the largest single source of greenhouse gases, the strategy provides for a reduction in methane equivalent to a 10pc reduction in the projected herd size; this will be achieved by a balance between reductions in cattle numbers and management measures. Industry will be assisted in making reductions by an expansion of the Irish Energy Centre. The new Planning and Development Act 2000 specifically enables local authorities to refuse planning permissions in flood-prone areas.Climate change is our most serious global environment problem. Future well-being depends on change now, challenging though that may be. Across Government, we will implement the climate strategy in a vigorous and sustained manner. It is a comprehensive response to a pressing global problem and I look forward to cross party support for the very necessary and, in some cases, very difficult, decisions which must be taken. * Noel Dempsey is Minister for the Environment and Local Government 
