climate change
{  
    October 09 2008 12:26 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/irelands-ceos-back-call-for-new-approach-to-climate-change-26483253.html }
Ireland’s CEOs have supported a call for a new approach to climate change, in order to help Irish firms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to incorporate sustainable, environmental practices into their business models. Business in the Community Ireland (BITCI) - the country’s leading corporate responsibility advisory group - today convened the ‘CEO Forum on Climate Change’ in Dublin. The forum is part of the organisation’s week-long initiative, Corporate Responsibility Week, a nationwide programme of events to promote responsible and sustainable business practices in Ireland. Over 80 CEOs and senior managers from Ireland’s top companies attended the Forum and were briefed on developments in the science and economics of climate change by expert, Professor John Sweeney, from NUI Maynooth. Delegates were also briefed on the latest thinking on climate change and its potential impact on Ireland by speakers from some of Ireland’s leading corporations, including Intel, Vodafone and Savills Hamilton Osborne King. Tina Roche, CEO, Business in the Community Ireland, said: “We believe in one central premise - action to address climate change is needed urgently and a strong corporate response must be part of the solution. Every company in Ireland, no matter what its size or sector, must urgently address their use of energy, water and transport”. “They must look at how their services, products and production processes affect the environment. Ultimately, these and many more factors will be crucial in ensuring the competitive advantage, long-term profitability and sustainability of Irish business,” said Ms. Roche. “Sticking our heads in the sand and hoping that the issue of climate change will go away is simply not an option. We need to be thinking about the creation of a new transformational approach to climate change, involving a mutually beneficial partnership between business and government, which will be in the long term interest of current and future generations,” she said. A global perspective on climate change was provided at the Forum by Dag Arne Kristensen, vice-president of Norwegian financial services giant DnB NOR ASA, which has supported a range of major climate change initiatives across Scandinavia. Jim O’Hara, VP, Intel Technology Manufacturing Group and General Manager, Intel Ireland, said: “Climate change is one of the most significant long term issues that we need to worry about, both from a business point of view and in terms of how we evolve as a society. “The key focus of today’s seminar is to emphasise that the business community in Ireland, at the highest level, is ready to work with all stakeholders to take the steps that are necessary,” said Mr. O’Hara. Business in the Community Ireland plans to put together a report summarising the key elements of the Forum and the conclusions that were reached, which will be submitted to Government in the coming weeks. The organisation hopes that the report will help stimulate long term Government planning on sustainable business practices and climate change. In conclusion, Ms. Roche said: “At present, the eyes of Ireland, and the world, are on the unfolding financial crisis. However, climate change is the critical issue facing the planet. Our capacity to address climate change is just as urgent today as it was a couple of weeks, and it will continue to be so, going forward”. “Business action is vital and today’s Forum provides an essential step in ensuring that the business community works with all stakeholders in keeping this issue alive, in focus and on everybody’s agenda,” said Ms. Roche. 
