housing
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  03:34, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8027609/Tourism-education-cop-worst-virus-hit.html }
The Australian economy will continue to feel the effects of the coronavirus over the next six months, with China-facing education and tourism sectors to weigh particularly heavily on GDP. AMP Capital senior economist Diana Mousina said the Australian economy was looking at an overall hit of about 0.5 or 0.6 per cent from the coronavirus, spread out over two quarters. "It will drag for at least three to six months from here," Ms Mousina told AAP on Friday. Ms Mousina said estimates she had seen suggested the government's China travel ban, which was on Thursday extended until February 29, could see Australia lose up to $1 billion from tourism and education per week. Despite education arrivals from China representing just 0.6 per cent of GDP, and tourist arrivals from China representing about 0.2 per cent, these losses would not rebound as easily as more lucrative exports such as commodities. Ms Mousina said there was a much higher chance of recouping mining losses once Chinese facilities and production lines return to full capacity. "The biggest hit to growth that we won't be able to recoup is the loss of tourism. "With education, some of the students will come and do their courses when out of quarantine, but you still have lost uni fees in the near-term, potentially lost accommodation, and the spending that goes along with education." Meanwhile, she predicted the total first quarter of Australian GDP growth would fall by 0.1 per cent. "Some of that weakness in exports will be from the virus, so it's a pretty weak outcome for Australia," the economist said. Consequently, pressure had been put back on policy-makers to do more stimulus in Australia. "The pressure is really on the RBA to do more rate cuts now, and we see that with the employment data that came out," Ms Mousina said, referring to Australia Bureau of Statistics data on Thursday that showed the unemployment rate had risen from 5.1 per cent in December to 5.3 per cent in January. She said while cutting interest rates could cause problems in the housing market, as well as creating financial stability and inequality risks, there was a "clear need" for consumers to have more support in Australia while wages growth was so low. "I think that in the absence of substantial tax cuts, or something like that, then the only the thing you can really do is to have more rate cuts, which would ease payments on debts," Ms Mousina said. "It's the only option the RBA has." Ms Mousina also said while the global share market - excluding Asia - had more or less bounced back from the coronavirus, it was too early to assume it would continue to rise. "I still think there's concern it could spread out further with now more cases in Japan, South Korea and Singapore," she said. 
