housing
{ By Andrew Court and Sarah Sotoodeh For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:33, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8025285/Good-Times-actress-JaNet-DuBois-looked-healthy-fan-event-just-weeks-unexpected-death.html }
Actress Ja'Net DuBois looked happy and healthy just weeks before her sudden death at the age of 74. The Good Times star appeared energetic as she teamed up with costars Jimmie Walker, Johnny Brown, Bern Nadette Stanis and Ralph Carter for a meet and greet at the Marriott Burbank Airport Hotel back on February 1. Tragically, the two-time Emmy winner passed away unexpectedly in her sleep Tuesday night at her home in California, TMZ reports. Authorities determined that she died of natural causes. DuBois is best known for starring in the hit 1970s sitcom Good Times, but she made history with her earlier role on the CBS soap opera Love of Life - becoming the first African-American actress to have a regular role on daytime TV.    She starred as Loretta Allen on that drama between 1971 and 1972.   The star's last film was 2016's She's Got A Plan; prior to that she appeared in the TV series short G.I. Joe: Renegades. DuBois was born in Brooklyn in 1945, and started her career on Broadway.  She appeared in a number of prominent plays throughout the 1950s and 60s, including A Raisin In The Sun and Golden Boy.  DuBois soon moved to Hollywood and scored her first film role in 1966. The film, A Man Called Adam, saw her appear opposite Sammy Davis Jr.  Critical acclaimed soon followed and she received a Peabody Award for her role in the 1969 CBS children's movie, J.T.  In 1971, after scoring her history-making role on Love of Life, DuBois went on to secure spots on several other TV programs during that decade.  Her small-screen credits from the 70s  include Sanford and Son, Shaft, Kojak, Caribe and Roots: The Next Generation.  However, it was her turn as neighbor and gossip maven Willona Woods in the sitcom Good Times that secured her stardom. The series was created by Norman Lear, and was known for being television's first African American two-parent family sitcom. It ran from 1974 to 1979.   Afterward, DuBois continued to appear in a variety of films and TV shows.   She won two Emmy Awards for her voice-over work on The PJs - a stop-motion comedy about the ups and downs of a black family living in a housing project.  Meanwhile, DuBois also appeared opposite Demi Moore in Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle in 20013. The star was also a talented composer and singer, who created the theme song for thr 1970s series, The Jeffersons.  
