housing
{ By Mark Duell and Lara Keay For Mailonline and Mario Ledwith and Andy Dolan and Paul Drury For The Daily Mail   Published:  07:14, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8023705/UK-weather-Hail-storm-dump-months-rain-water-ravaged-towns-today.html }
Large swathes of Britain are underwater again after already-flood hit towns were hit by one month's worth of rain in a just one day - causing strained defences to buckle. The Met Office is warning that further downpours over the Pennines, parts of Yorkshire and the English-Welsh border on Thursday could see those flood barriers that have held firm crumble.  Britain has already had 144 per cent of its normal February rainfall, with nine rivers, including the Severn and the Wye, reaching record-breaking heights this week, meaning 'risk to life' warnings for nearby residents.   While people in Ironbridge, Shropshire and other riverside communities have so far avoided a complete onslaught, the Environment Agency warns that 'significant' and 'ongoing' river flooding remains 'probable' this week.   Aerial images show the devastating impact of the floods, which have seen thousands of homes and businesses evacuated in South Wales, Yorkshire's Calder Valley, Herefordshire, Worcestershire and Shropshire, since Storm Dennis hit last weekend.    Nearly 300 flood warnings or alerts remain in place today, with four inches - or a month's worth - of rain lashing worst-affected areas and 65mph gusts set to sweep into the North East of England and Scotland tomorrow.  It comes as Conservative MPs in flood-hit constituencies around the country criticised the Government's slow financial response to the crisis and urged Whitehall to make more money available for flood defences. Jeremy Corbyn has slammed the Prime Minister for not visiting flood-hit communities after he spoke to residents in Pontypridd. The Labour leader also said Boris Johnson was showing his 'true colours' by not convening the Government's emergency committee Cobra.  Worcestershire Owners of flood-hit homes will be able to apply for a £500 emergency grant and exemption from paying council tax, the Communities Secretary has confirmed. Both homeowners and businesses will be able to seek 100 per cent relief from council tax and business rates respectively as they start to salvage their properties after suffering the impact of storms Dennis and Ciara.  On top of the £500 hardship relief for individual households, the Government is also fronting up £2,500 to each business hit by flooding. And grants worth up to £5,000 will be made available to both businesses and households impacted by the floods to allow them to pay for changes that could help make their properties more resilient in the future. Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick said: 'Storms Dennis and Ciara have severely impacted a large number of households and businesses - and I recognise how destabilising this can be. This extra support, including new funding, will help people in the worst-hit areas to recover and get back on their feet as soon as possible. I'd like to thank the emergency services and key agencies on the ground for their dedication and tireless work to help everyone affected in extremely challenging circumstances.' The Cabinet minister also announced that the cross-Whitehall Flood Recovery Taskforce would convene this week, bringing together environment, businesses and transport ministers to provide flood-stricken areas with support and guidance.  The nine rivers that have broken records for water levels this week are: Colne, Ribble, Calder, Aire, Trent, Severn, Wye, Lugg, and Derwent.  Meanwhile a major rail route connecting England and Scotland was blocked by flooding today, with the West Coast Main Line closed between Carlisle and Lancaster following recent downpours. Services run by Avanti West Coast from London Euston to Glasgow and Edinburgh via Birmingham were affected, as well as Northern and TransPennine Express trains.  Replacement buses ran between Preston and Carlisle. Several lines in Wales remained closed due to flooding, including Aberdare to Pontypridd; Ebbw Vale Town to Cardiff Central; Abergavenny to Hereford; and Blaenau Ffestiniog to Llandudno.  Persistent rain has seen the Met Office raise yellow weather warnings across parts of southern Scotland and Strathclyde, north-western England and Wales as recovery efforts continue following Storm Dennis.  Forecasters warned that heavy rain could fall on areas where the ground is already saturated from Dennis and Storm Ciara, which struck just a week before. Last night, rescuers were searching for a missing 87-year-old woman named Jean Disney who is feared to have fallen into the River Exe near her home town of Tiverton, Devon. In Mid Wales, a woman was rescued by 20 firefighters after clinging onto a tree branch over a flooded river for an hour and calling for help after falling into the River Usk in Brecon at 3am today. The woman was pulled from the raging river by crews using ropes and thermal imaging cameras and brought to safety just after 4am. She is now said to be recovering.  So far residents in Ironbridge, Shropshire, have praised emergency flood defences after they managed to keep the swollen Severn at bay - although some properties in the area still experienced flooding. Hollywood star Michael Sheen has raised more than £10,000 to help flooding victims hit by Storm Dennis. The Damned United actor said he was 'heartbroken' after seeing pictures of homes and businesses under water in his native Wales. Sheen, 51, who is from Port Talbot, South Wales, said one of his family members had to be evacuated after her house was hit by flooding. He launched a crowdfunding page with the aim of raising £10,000 - and smashed the target in less than 24 hours. In a video he said: 'I'm sure you have been watching the images all across the country of people who have damage done to their homes and their business.  'Communities that have been really hard hit by the flooding after Storm Dennis. I've been watching the images coming out of Wales, all over Wales, but particularly South Wales where I come from and where my home town is. I had a family member who had to be evacuated from her home on Sunday morning. 'It's devastating and the effects of Storm Dennis will go on for months and months and months - years in some cases. We also hear there may be more rain in the next couple of days and I wanted to do something about it.' Sheen shared the fundraising page with his 468,000 Twitter followers, and said the money raised will be donated to the Wales Council for Voluntary Action.  Up to 30 riverside properties were evacuated amid fears that water could breach barriers and engulf the town. But only a handful of homes were affected as the Environment Agency said its protective measures had so far worked. There was further relief in Bewdley, which straddles the Severn north of Worcester, after defences 'held up' despite water reaching near-record levels. Met Office heavy rain warnings are in place today for parts of Wales, which has experienced some of the worst flooding. There are further rain warnings in place for north-west England,and southern Scotland today, as well as Yorkshire and Northern Ireland tomorrow. The north east of England are also expected to get high winds tomorrow, with a yellow warning in place for Friday.   Met Office forecaster Grahame Madge said: 'There is still heavy rain in the forecast, and some of this will be falling on areas already affected by flooding.' Overnight, a new weather front will bring rain to parts of Northern Ireland and Scotland, and will move south towards the Lake District and the North Pennines by morning. Mr Madge explained: 'The yellow warning is in place from Sheffield to North Yorkshire and beyond. 'We are expecting 20-30mm of rain widely across that area, with as much as 60-80mm in some places.' Capel Curig in Snowdonia, north Wales, has had the highest rainfall of the last day, with 80mm falling in the 24 hours to 10am. Levens Hall, in Cumbria, was subjected to 55.2mm of rain, and Morecambe, Lancashire, got 51.6mm over the same period.  Storm Dennis has been linked to five deaths and the Environment Agency yesterday said that 645 properties in England had been flooded.  Kate Marks, of the agency, said that although Storm Dennis had long passed 'we'll be feeling the impacts for a few more days'. She added: 'There's a lot more water in the river systems. In particular, we are worried about the rivers Severn, Teme and Wye.' Rain fell heavily across northern and western parts of Britain overnight, Met Office forecaster Mark Wilson said, adding it was likely to continue until about 3pm.  'The rain will clear through the west in the afternoon then through the southeast later,' he said. People can look forward to 'sunshine and showers' later in the day, the forecaster added.  A major rail route connecting England and Scotland was blocked by flooding today, with the West Coast Main Line closed between Carlisle and Lancaster following recent downpours. Services run by Avanti West Coast from London Euston to Glasgow and Edinburgh via Birmingham are affected, as well as trains operated by Northern and TransPennine Express. Ticket restrictions were lifted and replacement buses deployed between Preston and Carlisle.  Passengers were warned that some journeys could take up to two hours longer than normal. Disruption is expected to last until at least the end of today. A speed restriction was implemented for trains in Cumbria and north Lancashire between 5pm yesterday and 10am today due to the wet weather increasing the risk of landslips and flooding. Several lines in Wales remained closed due to flooding, including Aberdare to Pontypridd; Ebbw Vale Town to Cardiff Central; Abergavenny to Hereford; and Blaenau Ffestiniog to Llandudno. Network Rail said it was working hard to repair and reopen routes as soon as possible. London Euston services were also affected by a points failure caused by an accident during overnight engineering work. The issue caused delays and cancellations to Avanti West Coast and London Northwestern Railway today.  A Network Rail spokesman said: 'A set of points was accidentally damaged during some engineering work on the approaches to Euston last night. 'This has reduced the number of tracks and platforms we are able to use at Euston this morning and some services have had to be altered or cancelled as a result. 'Passengers travelling to or from Euston today are advised to check before they travel, although we expect the disruption to be quite limited.' More weather warnings are likely tomorrow with heavy rain expected across western Scotland, Yorkshire and parts of Cumbria. Gusty winds are also expected to strengthen at the end of the working week. Mr Wilson urged people to be mindful of warnings as they go about their day. 'There could be some pretty tricky conditions on the roads, make sure you give yourself a bit more time with travel because there's some fairly heavy rain around,' he said. Meanwhile, fundraising efforts have continued for those affected by the floods, with multiple communities in Wales starting collections. Yesterday, Good Omens actor Michael Sheen launched a campaign to raise money for affected communities in Wales, raising half of its £10,000 goal within the first five hours. The Scottish Environment Protection Agency has issued flood alerts for 11 areas, including Dumfries and Galloway and the Borders, plus seven more serious flood warnings for areas around the River Tay and Pitlochry in Perthshire. A Met Office spokesman said: 'Continued unsettled weather in Scotland could deliver further impacts, particularly in the areas worst hit by recent storms. 'We are also tracking an area of low pressure which appears to be heading for North West Scotland on Monday. This will bring strong winds to Northern Ireland and the West Coast of Scotland.  'There is general agreement it will result in wet and windy conditions but its potency has yet to be verified.' There is speculation that this could lead to the fifth-named storm of the winter, which would be named Storm Ellen. The West Coast Main Line was closed between Carlisle and Lancaster following recent downpours today, with services run by Avanti West Coast from London Euston to Glasgow and Edinburgh via Birmingham affected. London Euston services were also affected by a points failure caused by an accident during overnight engineering work. The issue caused delays and cancellations to Avanti West Coast and London Northwestern Railway trains this morning.  STORM CIARA (2) STORM DENNIS (5) A Network Rail spokesman said: 'A set of points was accidentally damaged during some engineering work on the approaches to Euston last night. 'This has reduced the number of tracks and platforms we are able to use at Euston this morning and some services have had to be altered or cancelled as a result. 'Passengers travelling to or from Euston today are advised to check before they travel, although we expect the disruption to be quite limited.' Meanwhile, Calder Valley's Tory MP Craig Whittaker said the Government's response to flooding had been inadequate. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme he had been 'hammering on doors on Whitehall' since the flooding began ten days ago to get ministers to trigger its emergency funding scheme, which was finally announced on Tuesday night. His West Yorkshire constituency saw almost 1,200 properties flooded when Ciara dumped 4in of rain in less than 18 hours. Mr Whittaker said: 'The sad thing is all this funding package announced last night comes from about seven different departments and when you don't have a situation where you've got all ministers in one room, getting them to sign off is just incredibly difficult.' Shrewsbury's Tory MP Daniel Kawczynski yesterday said he would be lobbying for extra money to pay for better flood defences and to compensate businesses affected. He said: 'If we can afford £106million for HS2, then I think we can afford funding from Defra [Department for Food and Rural Affairs] for more flood alleviation schemes.' On Tuesday, Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick said he would release state aid for flooded homes and businesses worth up to £5,000 per property. A flood-hit canoe hire firm owner who has suffered £100,000 worth of damage to his home has urged Boris Johnson to 'come and see me, I'll buy you a pint'. Vic Haddock, 60, whose home is next to the River Severn, has lived in Ironbridge, Shropshire, for 17 years and said the flooding was the worst it had ever been. And he told the Prime Minister that he was a 'staunch supporter' of him and wanted to have a chat to 'find out who's responsible to give us a little bit of aid'. Mr Haddock said that despite the flood barriers put in by the council on the nearby Wharfage, residents in Ladywood had been given no such protection. He told Sky News: 'I'm a staunch supporter of Boris Johnson, and I believe he's going to be a great man for the country, I really do, great ambassador for England. Now I've supported him, come on Boris - come and support me.  'Come and see me, I'll buy you a pint, we'll have a chat about this and see if you can sort out the differences between the arguments in the council world, energies, conservation etc and find out who's finally responsible to give us a little bit of aid. 'We live by a river. I bought this of my choice, my own accord. I expect to get my feet wet, but I don't expect this, not when they're protecting the town on the other side. 'I think there's got to be some sort of duty of care etc, or whatever the phrase is. If they support that side, then they should support this side. That's all we ask, nothing else, the rest we'll do ourselves - we always have done. Mr Haddock, who also owns Ironbridge Canoe Hire Ltd and Atcham Canoe Hire, was forced to evacuate his home and saw his £100,000 house renovation destroyed. He said he has been staying with his family in Wolverhampton because his home has no gas, no electricity and no amenities. Told by a Sky News reporter that the Government are saying he will get up to £500 in financial hardship payments, he replied: '£500? What's that going to do? 'There's £500 worth of damage in the freezer and the fridge alone. They're a right off. There's a Rayburn stove in there. Have you seen one of the cost of one of them? 'Completely written off. That controls all the heating, central heating, all the electrics go through it, everything - we've got nothing. We can't even use the toilets. And asked if he was insured, Mr Haddock said: 'No, can't get insurance. We're just ordinary working people down here. 'They come up with extortionate rates - £7,000 a year, or something like that, 'oh, but we're not insuring you, not for floods'.'  Britain faces further torrential rain across large swathes of the country over the next few days along with hail, thunder and snow. Nearly 300 flood warnings or alerts remain in place today, while up to 4in (100mm) of rain - or a month's worth - is expected to fall in parts of Wales. It comes as Conservative MPs in flood-hit constituencies around the country criticised the Government's slow financial response to the crisis. Whitehall has been urged to make more money available for flood defences, and Jeremy Corbyn has slammed Mr Johnson for not visiting flood-hit communities. The Labour leader also said the Prime Minister was showing his 'true colours' by not convening the Government's emergency committee Cobra. Families devastated by flooding have demanded action from Mr Johnson as he enjoys a grace and favour break with his girlfriend in Kent. Mr Johnson has chosen to remain holed up with his partner Carrie Symonds at the Government's 115-room Chevening mansion while the crisis unfolds. Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick has triggered the Flood Recovery Framework, releasing thousands of pounds of aid for flooded homes and businesses. It means flood-hit homes and businesses can apply for up to £5,000 to help make them more resilient against future flooding. Households can also apply for up to £500 in financial hardship payments and 100 per cent council tax relief, while flooded businesses can apply for up to £2,500 and 100 per cent business rates relief. The Environment Agency claims that existing defences have protected at least 20,000 properties while the Government has promised to invest £4billion in flood defences over the next five years. One in ten new homes built in England over the past seven years have been constructed on land at the most risk of flooding, it was revealed last night. More than 84,000 at-risk properties have been built since 2013, with the number of homes built in these areas annually more than doubling in recent years. Experts claimed the Government should review housebuilding targets amid claims councils are facing pressure to build more homes despite a lack of suitable sites.  It comes as a rural insurance firm estimated it would pay out £20million in claims for damage caused by Storm Ciara as communities handle the aftermath of Dennis.  Rob Wilby, a geography professor at Loughborough University, told The Guardian: 'We're compounding the existing risk by continuing to build on the floodplain. 'The more we're paving over natural areas the more we're making it easier for water to move across the land and enter rivers.' The Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government has promised to build 300,000 new homes a year by the mid-2020s to help solve the housing shortage.  But data revealed in the Guardian shows the number of new houses built on at-risk land rose from 9,500 in 2013 to 24,000 in 2016-17, then fell 20,000 in 2017-18. Some 20 per cent of new homes in Calderdale, West Yorkshire, have been built on at-risk land since 2015, despite their being four floods there in the past eight years. Calderdale council leader Tim Swift said: 'There's got to be a look at planning policy and the relationship between housing numbers and the pressures on flooding.' An MHCLG spokesman told MailOnline today: 'Local authorities have a responsibility to assess the number of homes their communities need and our planning policy is clear that housing should be located in the areas at least risk of flooding. 'Where development in a high risk area is absolutely necessary, sufficient measures should be taken to make sure homes are safe, resilient and protected from flooding.' Meanwhile insurance company NFU Mutual has said it is expecting to pay out around £20million in claims for damage caused by Storm Ciara. The firm, which insures many homes and businesses in rural areas, has received more than 2,800 claims in the wake of Ciara and a further 1,000 related to Dennis. Around 90 per cent of the claims are for personal home insurance related to severe damage including fallen trees, damage to roofs and chimneys being blown over. The firm said while Ciara prompted more claims for storm damage due to heavy winds, the subsequent storm brought heavy rain in localised areas causing more flood claims. Fellow insurer Aviva saw a 285 per cent surge in calls and claims after the damage caused by Ciara. Insurers have said it is too early to estimate the total cost of the damage from the two storms, but NFU Mutual said flood damage is expensive to repair, averaging £20,000 per claim. Following widespread flooding in Yorkshire and the Midlands in 2019, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) estimated claims would cost insurers up to £110 million. Storm Doris in February 2017 cost £11.5million in payouts from NFU Mutual as the cost of Storm Desmond in 2016 reached £36million. In December 2016, Storms Desmond, Eva and Frank hit areas of the UK and cost fellow insurer Direct Line between £110million and £140million in claims. Paul Branch, NFU Mutual head of claims, said: 'Storm Ciara is one of the worst storms to hit the UK for several years and we'll be paying out in the region of £20 million to help our customers get back into their homes and businesses as quickly as possible. 'Even at this early stage we are also aware of more than 1,000 claims for Storm Dennis, and we expect the numbers to continue to increase as more customers submit their claims for damage. 'The number of severe flood warnings is decreasing with water starting to make its way to rivers, so thankfully we're expecting the situation on the ground to start getting better for most regions. 'We remain concerned about customers in Tewkesbury, Wales and Herefordshire and the Lake District.' The (ABI) has advised people facing damage or flooding to contact their insurer as soon as possible. Many insurers have 24-hour emergency helplines and they may be able to arrange temporary emergency repairs to stop any damage getting worse. Jeremy Corbyn has criticised the Prime Minister for not visiting communities affected by flooding. The Labour leader also said Boris Johnson was showing his 'true colours' by not convening the Government's emergency committee Cobra. Mr Corbyn visited Pontypridd in South Wales today to meet residents and volunteers in communities affected by Storm Dennis. Ahead of the visit, he said areas most vulnerable to flooding had been 'badly let down time and time again'.  He called the Government's response to recent flooding 'wholly inadequate' and accused ministers of failing to grasp the scale of the climate crisis. 'In refusing to visit flood-hit communities, nowhere-to-be-seen Boris Johnson is showing his true colours by his absence,' Mr Corbyn said. 'Failing to convene Cobra to support flood-hit communities sends a very clear message: if the Prime Minister is not campaigning for votes in a general election he simply does not care about helping communities affected by flooding, especially communities that have repeatedly been flooded in recent years. 'I want to thank our emergency services, the Welsh Labour government, local authorities and volunteers who have come together and worked around the clock to protect homes and businesses from flooding. 'As the climate crisis deepens, extreme weather conditions will become more frequent and severe. The Government's response has been wholly inadequate and fails to grasp the scale of this crisis.' On Tuesday, Plaid Cymru leader Adam Price also questioned why the Prime Minister had not called a Cobra meeting. He said the Welsh Government should have its own Cobra-style national emergency response system, particularly for flooding disasters, to discuss emergency responses across all public authorities. Yesterday afternoon, First Minister Mark Drakeford held a summit at the Emergency Coordination Centre Wales (ECCW) in Cardiff. Environment Secretary George Eustice said: 'Jeremy Corbyn shouldn't be trying to politicise the floods, he should be backing the Government's move to support and work with emergency personnel who are working tirelessly to help everyone affected. 'We are investing £2.6 billion in flood defences, which have already protected 200,000 properties that would otherwise have been caught out by flooding. 'We know there is more to do - which is why our manifesto committed us to an additional £4 billion for flood defences and today we've set out new measures to help the communities directly affected.' And Business minister Nadhim Zahawi defended Mr Johnson for not visiting areas of the UK affected by flooding despite him doing so during the general election campaign. Mr Zahawi told Sky News: 'He (Mr Johnson) is focused to make sure that I, as the business minister, get the money out the door to those businesses. That's what he has tasked me to do. He's made sure that the ministers in the Department for Local Government activate the Bellwin Scheme, that's what Robert Jenrick has done. 'He made sure that George Eustice, the Environment Secretary, is on top of this, that is what the Prime Minister does, that is what prime ministers do. 'He is now Prime Minister and is leading the team as the Prime Minister but quite rightly, rather than having a sort of jamboree of media and your whole entourage going, he wants to help people by getting the funding to them, like businesses, £2,500 per business impacted by the floods, the Bellwin Scheme activated'. Mr Zahawi added: 'Ultimately, what's more important, action or just simply having a media photo op? Or what's better? It's much better for the Prime Minister to keep his ministers focused on delivery rather than a media photo op.' 
