{ By Christine Rendon and Andrew Court and Sarah Sotoodeh For Dailymail.com   Published:  03:06, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8023057/Janet-Jackson-pays-tribute-late-JaNet-Dubois.html }
Janet Jackson has paid a touching tribute to her former Good Times co-star, the late Ja'Net DuBois.  Jackson, who played Ja'Net's daughter Millicent 'Penny' Woods in the hit series, shared an array of photos of themselves over the years, along with a moving message in memory of the late actress.   'I am so very saddened to hear my longtime friend Ja'Net DuBois has passed away. I saw first hand how she broke stereotypes and changed the landscape for Black women in entertainment,' the singer, 53, wrote on Instagram Wednesday.  'I'm grateful in recent years I had a chance to see her and create more lasting memories. I pray for comfort for all her family and friends. 'Thank you Ja'Net, I'll miss you.'    The two-time Emmy winner DuBois passed away unexpectedly in her sleep Tuesday night at her home in California at the age of 74, TMZ reported.   DuBois is best known for starring in the hit 1970s sitcom Good Times, but she made history with her earlier role on the CBS soap opera Love of Life - becoming the first African-American actress to have a regular role on daytime TV.    She starred as Loretta Allen on that drama between 1971 and 1972.  DuBois, who had three children, was most recently seen in public just weeks ago and appeared to be in good health.  The star's last film was 2016's She's Got A Plan; prior to that she appeared in the TV series short G.I. Joe: Renegades. DuBois was born in Brooklyn in 1945, and started her career on Broadway.  She appeared in a number of prominent plays throughout the 1950s and 60s, including A Raisin In The Sun and Golden Boy.  DuBois soon moved to Hollywood and scored her first film role in 1966. The film, A Man Called Adam, saw her appear opposite Sammy Davis Jr.  Critical acclaimed soon followed and she received a Peabody Award for her role in the 1969 CBS children's movie, J.T.  In 1971, after scoring her history-making role on Love of Life, DuBois went on to secure spots on several other TV programs during that decade.  Her small-screen credits from the 70s  include Sanford and Son, Shaft, Kojak, Caribe and Roots: The Next Generation.  However, it was her turn as neighbor and gossip maven Willona Woods in the sitcom Good Times that secured her stardom.  The series was created by Norman Lear, and was known for being television's first African American two-parent family sitcom. It ran from 1974 to 1979.   Afterward, DuBois continued to appear in a variety of films and TV shows.   She won two Emmy Awards for her voice-over work on The PJs - a stop-motion comedy about the ups and downs of a black family living in a housing project.  Meanwhile, DuBois also appeared opposite Demi Moore in Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle in 20013. The star was also a talented composer and singer, who created the theme song for thr 1970s series, The Jeffersons.   
