{ By Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com    Published:  01:02, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8022465/NYPDs-Sergeant-Benevolent-Association-criticized-disgraceful-tweet-poking-fun-homeless.html }
The official Twitter page for the Sergeants Benevolent Association of the New York Police Department is under fire for sharing a 'disgraceful' post mocking a homeless person sleeping on a train in the city.  In a Wednesday afternoon post, the SBA NYPD appeared to mock the city's homeless population while also poking fun at fare evasion protesters in an attempt to criticize Mayor Bill de Blasio. 'New York City: One bedroom, convenient transportation to D Train- NYC Subway, only $2.75 entrance fee unless of course you choose not to pay & prefer to jump turnstiles,' the SBA said in the post that showed a person sleeping on the train. 'If caught not paying $2.75 you will be given FREE Mets tickets. Welcome to NYC! Thank you Mayor DeBlasio.'  Officers with the New York Police Department and protesters have clashed in recent months over the extensive police presence on the city's subways in response to increase fare evasion as train prices have gone up.  In January, New York's attorney general, Letitia James, launched an investigation into whether the New York Police Department has been targeting communities of color for subway fare evasion.  The SBA has notoriously ragged on Mayor de Blasio for what they perceive as the general public's disdain for police in the city. After the initial post mocking the homeless person, they shared the photo again in response to a tweet the mayor made about the city's housing market.  But the post with the offensive caption gained a majority of the fury of those online.   New York Senator Zellnor Y Myrie said: 'This is disgraceful and @SBANYPD should be roundly admonished for mocking someone’s misfortune. Disgusting.' The sentiment was shared by historian Kevin M Kruse, who added: 'Has this account been hacked, or is it actually your intent to make everyone on the NYPD look like a raging a*****e?' Many took issue with the SBA making phone of the homeless person instead of offering them help.  'This is really disgraceful,' said one user. 'The thought that police, who are supposed to serve and protect all of the public, are photographing and mocking the poor and homeless should be sad and terrifying to us all.'  Another person asked: 'Were you able to direct this individual to a nearby shelter where they could be warmer and safer?'  Several folks noted that the NYPD paid close to $69million in misconduct settlements in 2019. There were roughly 1,383 suits filed against the department.  'Last year, you paid out almost $69 million on lawsuits for excessive use of force, wrongful arrest and imprisonment, malicious prosecution and more,' said one user. 'Your problem isn't the homeless, turnstile jumpers, or a mayor with limited political capital — it's you.' And while there were those who critiqued de Blasio in the post, the bulk of the responses chastised the 'benevolent' association and Edward Mullins - President of the Police Sergeants Union. Others also directed the SBA's fury with the homeless crisis to Michael Bloomberg, noting that homelessness rose 40 per cent under his administration when he was mayor of the city.  Last summer, Mullins was scolded for circulating a video that referred to black people as 'monsters' and made derogatory statements about those living in public housing.  The SBA has been slammed for making controversial posts that appear to be in favor of police brutality, including tweets slamming protests in Ferguson, Missouri.  
