housing
{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:52, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8021465/Melania-Trump-warns-against-dangers-social-media-use-accepts-Woman-Distinction-Award.html }
Melania Trump warned against the dangers of social media use on Wednesday and advocated for 'teaching healthy online behavior' when she accepted an award for her Be Best campaign. 'Technology has become a daily part of our children's lives in both positive and negative ways. We live in an age where too many people allowed the number of retweets or likes to define their self worth,' the first lady warned in her remarks. 'I'm convinced now more than ever that teaching healthy online behavior is crucial to securing a safer future for our children,' she added. Her warnings about the dangers of online activity come as President Donald Trump - who is the midst of a four-day trip to the West Coast - spend the morning on Twitter retweeting his supporters and attacking Michael Bloomberg, who has become a top target of the president's online wrath. President Trump has attacked the former New York City mayor's height and alleged he's asked for a box to stand on during Wednesday night's Democratic debate in Las Vegas. The first lady has suffered criticism for advocating against cyber bullying when her husband has been accused of doing just that.   But she has said the president is allowed to tweet what he wants.   'I don't agree always what he posts, but his action is his action,' the first lady said in a rare interview with ABC News in October 2018. 'And I tell him that.'  Online safety is one of the three pillars of the first lady's Be Best campaign, along with well being and opiate abuse.  Melania Trump discussed her signature issues when she accepted Palm Beach Atlantic University's 'Woman of Distinction' Award for 2020 during a lunch at The Breakers Hotel in Palm Beach. She discussed her work with the 550 attendees. She stood on stage, before a large American flag, and spoke with the aid of a teleprompter.   'Two years ago I launched Be Best, an initiative dedicated to ensuring that we as Americans are doing everything we can to take care of the next generation. When we teach our children to cherish our values and care for each other; they are better prepared to carry on Americans legacy of compassion service and patriotism. It is our duty as adults and parents to ensure they had the best opportunities to lead fulfilling, healthy, and successful lives,' the first lady said. Her only mention of her husband came when she talked about her work combatting opioid addiction, saying it was an issue she and the president cared about greatly. Melania Trump also pointed out that United States experienced its first drop in opioid deaths in three decades last year and she credited the Trump administration. 'Opioids have affected the lives of more than 2 million children in the United States,' Melania Trump said. 'I've seen firsthand how opioid abuse affects families who struggling with addiction. I have traveled to children's hospitals and treatment facilities who support those affected by opioids.'  ‘I'm very proud to be able to tell you that for the first time in 29 years, drug overdose deaths have dropped by more than 4 per cent,’ she noted. ‘A testament to the hard work and dedication of this administration to fight the drug epidemic.’ Melania Trump, wearing a white Brandon Maxwell sheath dress with black piping - that retails for $1,985 - focused her remarks on her work involving her signature initiative. She discussed the trips she's made to hospitals and schools to promote programs that align with Be Best's values.  'Since its launch Be Best has been shining a light on programs across the country and overseas, that help us our youth understand what it means to Be Best,' she said. 'It is my hope that in promoting Be Best values, we will give a voice to the concerns and struggles of our children, and help them overcome the challenges they face on a daily basis,' Melania Trump added. The first lady began her eight minute remarks by thanking her parents - Viktor and Amalija Knavs - who were in the audience.    'Thank you both for your support and love throughout my life. I will always be grateful for all that you have done for our family over years,' she said to a huge round of applause.     The university praised the first lady's work with children when they announced she was the award's recipient.  'In her role as First Lady, Mrs. Trump focuses her time on the many issues affecting children. An unwavering characteristic of the First Lady is her aptitude for showing love and compassion in all that she does,' Palm Beach Atlantic University, a private Christian college, said in its release .   The private West Palm Beach university - founded in 1968 by the Baptist Church - usually honors two women each year with its award, which goes back to 1991.  For the 2020 award, however, Melania Trump is the solo honoree.   The school sits a 10 minute drive from Mar-a-Lago, the Trumps' Florida home. The first couple spent President's Day weekend at the Winter White House.  President Trump returned to Washington D.C. on Sunday to attend the wedding of his longtime aide Stephen Miller to Katie Waldman, the spokesperson for Vice President Mike Pence.  Melania Trump remained in Florida.  The award luncheon benefits a scholarship fund for female students - two of whom were present Wednesday to watch the first lady accept the honor. Tickets for the luncheon were $500 each and it sold out, a university official told DailyMail.com. The number of tickets sold was not given. Past honorees include Candy Carson, the wife of Housing Secretary Ben Carson; U.S. Ambassador to Finland Bonnie McElveen-Hunter; fashion designer Lilly Pulitzer Rousseau; Helen DeVos; Barbara Nicklaus, the wife of professional golfer Jack Nicklaus; and Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation founder Nancy Brinker. Palm Beach Atlantic University is a private, independent university offering undergraduate, graduate and professional degrees in West Palm Beach, Orlando and online, according to the release announcing the first lady's award.  The University is dedicated to the integration of Christian principles to prepare students for lifelong learning, leadership and service, the release noted. Melania Trump announced her Be Best program in May 2017 and expanded it on its one-year anniversary.  It was off to a slow start but has grown as Melania Trump has grown more comfortable in her role as first lady.  She has visited hospital programs that help babies with Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome, she's visited school programs that focus on kindness; and she's worked with companies like Microsoft on online safety issues.   She has also visited Africa in addition to taking several domestic trips.   
