housing
{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  15:19, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020823/Im-100-ROYALIST-Drillminister-rapper-running-London-Mayor-praises-Queen.html }
Rapper and 'centrist' London mayoral candidate Drillminister has revealed his love for the Queen because of her role in bringing the Windrush generation to Britain. The mysterious hip-hop artist appeared on This Morning today with Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford, where he expressed his deep respect for the Monarchy and declared himself '100 per cent a Royalist'.  The masked musician explained how there was 'no legislation or policy' against him running for mayor without revealing his face, and explained that his view of the right-wing was that they are 'very corporate and not really for the little man', but then blasted left-wingers for 'arguing about toilets'.  'It doesn't make sense to me, I'm in the middle, I'm about the people,' he said.  Speaking about the Royal Family, Drillminister said Prince William was 'holding up the country right now', and that the Duke of Cambridge has made sure that the country has 'a future' because 'he's put an heir there'.  When host Eamonn Holmes asked if he was a Royalist, Drillminister said: 'I'm 100 per cent a royalist.  'If it wasn't for the Queen a lot of the Windrush generation wouldn't have been able to come here, a lot of people, that, like, the Queen invited all of the nations to this country to build it up and rebuild it after the war, so of course you've got to have love for the Queen. 'Any person that doesn't have love for the Queen - what money are you using?' He then said Harry and Meghan should 'do their thing' and he took no issue with them, but the couple cannot 'have their cake and eat it', in reference to them being told not to use the Sussex Royal moniker.  'If I have Australian background and I'm a dual national and I can play for the Australian football team or I can play for England, you can't, you can only play for one, so this kind of ties into the same thing,' he said.  'You can't have your cake and eat it. You don't want to be here and do the tours, you don't want to be here and do the Buckingham Palace thing, you want to sod off to Canada and do your thing?  'All right we support you, do your thing but you can't have the HRH.'   He continued: 'As a future mayor of this city, Buckingham Palace is very important to me, what happens in Buckingham Palace is very important to me.  'If you're not a team player on my team, and you're over there, I don't care about your team over there, I care about this team.' Drillminister announced his candidacy to be the next Mayor of London earlier this year as he said he was inspired to enter the race by Donald Trump's unexpected electoral success.  Drillminister, who wears a balaclava in public, will join the contest for City Hall as he looks to oust Labour's Sadiq Khan.  Mr Khan is seeking re-election after securing power in 2016 and he is up against Tory Shaun Bailey and former Tory and now independent candidate Rory Stewart as well as a handful of other challengers.  Drillminister said the US President had proved that an underdog could win a major election, telling the HuffPost website: 'People didn’t take Donald Trump seriously when he was running. He’s the most powerful man in the entire world.'  Drillminister has previously hit out at what he described as the hypocrisy of British politicians for deriding the hip hop genre of drill music while also using violent language themselves. The artist went viral in 2018 after releasing a cut-up track that uses quotes from MPs in which they talk of, among other things, stabbing each other in the back. Improve London transport and roll out cleaner buses to improve air quality Increase mental health support in the capital Improve London housing and reduce homelessness Diversify the Metropolitan Police to help curb crime   Politicians and police linked the drill scene in the UK to a rise in gang violence, which resulted in multiple music videos being removed from YouTube.  Drillminister said he planned to put politicians 'in their place' during the mayoral contest, with the capital set to go to the polls on May 7.   He told HuffPost: 'They are going to see the power of the youth. They are going to see the power of the streets. They are going to see the power of every single, every day working class people.'  He said he is planning to make 'serious, serious changes for London' if he is elected as he suggested that the other candidates in the race were not proper Londoners.  He said: 'People are just trying to find their way through this maze we call London life and I think we need a mayor that kind of resembles what people recognise as a Londoner as opposed to somebody dictating to them what a Londoner is.'  His manifesto will reportedly include pledges to improve mental health support and housing in the capital.   He said he had also been inspired to stand by his great-grandfather who fought in the Second World War.   He said: 'So if my grandfather's sacrifice to make sure that we can all be free today and I can have this opportunity to make people vote for me isn't good enough, then I don't know what people understand of democracy because that is what Drillminister stands for, democracy.'        
