{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  11:44, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020039/Man-denies-rape-claiming-twin-brother-responsible.html }
A man accused of stalking, choking and then trying to rape a stranger claims the attacker could be his twin brother, a court heard. The terrified victim fled naked to raise the alarm after being dragged into a park by Khaled Argoub and sexually assaulted, a jury was told. Argoub, 21, followed a woman he saw on a London Underground night service, choked her until she blacked out and forced her to perform a sexual act on him, it is alleged. Kingston Crown Court heard that his DNA was found under her fingernails and there were CCTV images of him. But in a police interview he said that the man in the CCTV could be his twin brother, even though the Algerian national had told his housemate he had no other family in the UK. The young woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was able to escape by scratching for her survival, biting him and removing her jumpsuit so she could run away. She was forced to flee naked to a nearby housing estate and seek help from a stranger who called the police and an ambulance. He is accused of closely following the woman out of the Tube at around 3am in Colliers Wood, southwest London. DNA samples of Argoub were recovered from the young woman's fingernails and a baseball cap believed to belong to him was found by police at the park where the alleged attack took place. Prosecutor Charlotte Newell told the court the victim was attacked in the early hours of August 11, 2019 after she had been out with friends in Brixton.  The court heard the victim had missed her stop and got off at South Wimbledon before switching platforms to return towards Colliers Wood station.  The prosecution claims Argoub forced his way through the barriers at South Wimbledon and followed the woman onto the train.  According to Ms Newell: 'Travelling home alone from a night out in Brixton, she was followed by a male who grabbed her in a stranglehold, dragged her to a park and then subjected her to a sexual assault. 'Police were able to ascertain through an extensive trawl of CCTV the movements and appearance of the perpetrator. 'There is no CCTV of the area of the park where it took place.' Ms  Newell said the woman initially tried to resist the attack by clawing at the man with her nails.  She continued: 'Fearing that by resisting she was risking her own life by doing so she stopped fighting back. She was not consenting, she played along for her own safety. 'In doing so, she was able to escape, naked, running to nearby housing to summon help.' The prosecution claims Argoub was examined by a doctor at the police station following his arrest. The doctor documented scratch marks on his body.   Ms Newell added: 'Mr Argoub was examined by a doctor at the police station after the arrest who noted scratch marks on his body. 'His DNA was recovered from the young woman's fingernails. 'The Crown suggests that is because, having followed her, he attacked her in the brutal way that she describes.' She said at 3.25am, the young woman was meeting friends in Brixton and accidentally missed her stop. She got off at South Wimbledon crossing to the opposite platform to Colliers Wood. Prosecutors claim Argoub followed the victim along Byegrove Road in Collier's Wood before dragging her into a nearby park.   Ms Newell said the victim said she was choked by her assailant and may have blacked out. She said she was convinced she was going to die.   Police officers and an ambulance arrived soon after to question and treat the woman for her injuries. Ms Newell said: 'She was distressed and hyper-ventilating. 'She told the ambulance crew that she had been dragged, choked and sexually assaulted. 'They noted red marks on either side of her neck, scratches on her back and two bruises on her forehead, a cut to her lip and right foot.' Subsequent analysis at a sexual assault clinic found abrasions on both sides of her neck, haemorrhaging to her eyes consistent with being choked, bruises and abrasions on her arms, back and bottom and several on her genitals. Ms Newell added: 'The nail clippings were taken from [the woman's] right and left hands. 'DNA from the defendant was present in both the right and the left hand clippings.' The prosecutor said his interview with police on August 26 was 'unusual', despite being assessed mentally fit for interview. She said: 'He first said that he did not know who he was or what his name was. 'He later claimed to have a twin but did not know when he had last seen him or contacted him. 'This is of course in contradiction to him telling his housemate that he had no family in the UK. 'He said he got around London by following people because he is an animal and that he didn't know Colliers Wood area but his brother might. 'He said that he could not remember where he was on evening of August 10 but probably in bed sleeping. 'He was shown CCTV stills of the male at South Wimbledon and Colliers Wood but denied it was him and maintained that it could be his twin brother.' Argoub denies two counts of attempted rape, three counts of sexual assault, one count of attempting to choke with intent to commit rape, and a count of assault by penetration. The trial continues. 
