housing
{ By Mark Duell for MailOnline   Published:  11:13, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020107/Flood-hit-families-demand-action-Boris-Johnson.html }
Families devastated by flooding today demanded action from Prime Minister Boris Johnson as he enjoys a grace and favour break with his girlfriend in Kent. Up to 1,500 homes have been flooded and thousands more evacuated across Britain following Storm Dennis which brought torrential rain and 90mph winds. But Mr Johnson has chosen to remain holed up with his partner Carrie Symonds at the Government's 115-room Chevening mansion while the crisis unfolds. MPs speaking on behalf of residents have asked why Mr Johnson has not called a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee to handle the official response. Craig Whittaker, Conservative MP for Calder Valley, West Yorkshire, said his constituency had been 'really badly' affected, with 1,187 properties flooded. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'But, amazingly, it's the third time in seven-and-a-half years that this has happened to us.' On the emergency funding scheme announced last night, he said: 'It will make a huge difference, but the problem is we've had to wait so long for it to be triggered.  'It's nine days since the floods in the Calder Valley and I can tell you I've been hammering on doors in Whitehall every day since, trying to get this funding triggered. Owners of flood-hit homes will be able to apply for a £500 emergency grant and exemption from paying council tax, the Communities Secretary has confirmed. Both homeowners and businesses will be able to seek 100 per cent relief from council tax and business rates respectively as they start to salvage their properties after suffering the impact of storms Dennis and Ciara.  On top of the £500 hardship relief for individual households, the Government is also fronting up £2,500 to each business hit by flooding. And grants worth up to £5,000 will be made available to both businesses and households impacted by the floods to allow them to pay for changes that could help make their properties more resilient in the future. Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick said: 'Storms Dennis and Ciara have severely impacted a large number of households and businesses - and I recognise how destabilising this can be. 'This extra support, including new funding, will help people in the worst-hit areas to recover and get back on their feet as soon as possible. 'I'd like to thank the emergency services and key agencies on the ground for their dedication and tireless work to help everyone affected in extremely challenging circumstances.' The Cabinet minister also announced that the cross-Whitehall Flood Recovery Taskforce would convene this week, bringing together environment, businesses and transport ministers to provide flood-stricken areas with support and guidance. The financial measures announced apply to those affected in district or unitary authorities that have 25 or more flooded households as a result of storms Ciara and Dennis. The £500 community recovery grant to individual households will be paid to local councils by the Ministry of Housing Communities and Local Government (MHCLG), while the £2,500 business recovery grant will come from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and paid to businesses who cannot recover flood damage costs from insurance.  'The problem is, what happened last time in 2015, Cobra was called because it was very widespread. This time, because it was much more isolated to the Calder Valley, Cobra wasn't called, so all the ministers weren't in one room to agree a funding package. 'The sad thing is all this funding package that was announced last night comes from about seven different departments, and when you don't have a situation where you've got all ministers in one room, getting them to sign off is just incredibly difficult.' Asked if it would have helped if the emergency funding had come earlier than last night, Mark Garnier, Tory MP for Wyre Forest, told BBC Radio 4: 'Yeah, look - if they're running an overdraft and it gets paid off in a week's time then I can live with that.' He added: 'I think, as long as the money comes, that's what's really important to me. What I don't want to find is my local authority has had to run up some overdraft or, actually, just as importantly is not delivering the emergency responses that we need because of funding, but I don't get any sense that that's happening.' He went on: 'Being a humble backbencher I can't guarantee anything but I can absolutely guarantee I will be banging on people's door to make sure they do get that money.'  It comes after Daniel Kawczynski, Tory MP for Shrewsbury, said yesterday: 'Given the flooding crisis in our constituencies why has Commons not been recalled?' He said that more Government funding and flood defence schemes were needed in the Shropshire town, where flood waters blocked main roads yesterday. Labour MP for Halifax, Holly Lynch, said: 'His refusal to call a Cobra meeting has really hampered the recovery of lots of different communities.' However, last night Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick announced he would trigger the Flood Recovery Framework, releasing thousands of pounds of aid for flooded homes and businesses. It means flood-hit homes and businesses can apply for up to £5,000 to help make them more resilient against future flooding. Households can also apply for up to £500 in financial hardship payments and 100 per cent council tax relief, while flooded businesses can apply for up to £2,500 and 100 per cent business rates relief. The Environment Agency claims that existing defences have protected at least 20,000 properties while the Government has promised to invest £4billion in flood defences over the next five years.   Mr Johnson normally goes to the country estate of Chequers in Buckinghamshire to unwind with Miss Symonds. But as the mansion, set in 1,000 acres of English countryside, is undergoing repairs this weekend, Mr Johnson has asked to make use of Chevening instead.  It is understood he will be working from the mansion, which is Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab's weekend retreat. The repairs being carried out at Chequers are fairly standard, rather than major works. Chevening is one of the best perks that go with the job of Foreign Secretary - a 13th century country estate at their disposal to woo dignitaries and impress friends. The Grade I-listed property in Sevenoaks was gifted to the nation for the use of a cabinet minister or a member of the royal family. It is not funded by the Government and is the responsibility of its trustees. Chequers, on the other hand, was given to the nation by Sir Arthur Lee, an MP and minister during and after the First World War. The Chequers Estate Act 1917 created a trust allowing prime ministers use of the mansion on the assumption they would not necessarily have their own country estate.  
