housing
{ By Joe Middleton and Sam Blanchard and Stephen Matthews  and Tim Stickings For Mailonline   Published:  01:48, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-8018667/Government-tells-coronavirus-cruise-passengers-NOT-allowed-evacuation-flight.html }
Another 79 people have today tested positive for coronavirus on board the Diamond Princess, as some passengers started to leave the ship but Britons were warned to stay put while officials charter a rescue plane.  The dozens of new cases bring the total to 621 despite the official end of the two-week quarantine today.  Some passengers were whisked away in buses and taxis after leaving the ship in Yokohama this morning, after Japanese authorities declared them free of the virus.  But the 74 Britons on board have been warned that if they leave the ship today, they might be barred from the rescue flight which is due to depart from Tokyo 'later this week'.  British virus patients David and Sally Abel will have to stay in Japan after testing positive yesterday. Mr Abel's son said today that his father was suffering from early-onset dementia and called the delay 'very frustrating'.  Whitehall has faced growing anger over its slow response, with 328 US citizens already back home after Washington airlifted them out on Monday, and Canadians and Australians leaving today.  Scientists have warned that the ship is an ideal breeding ground for the coronavirus, with Japan's two-week lockdown widely declared a 'failure' after more than 600 people were infected.  Once the Britons return, they will be kept in a further 14-day quarantine at Arrowe Park Hospital in the Wirral, where UK evacuees from China have previously been kept in isolation.    'We are planning an evacuation flight from Tokyo to the UK as soon as possible for Britons who are on the Diamond Princess. We hope the flight will be later this week, subject to permissions from the Japanese authorities,' a Foreign Office statement said.   'At 7am local time on Wednesday, the Diamond Princess cruise operator and Japanese authorities allowed passengers to disembark from the cruise ship. 'However there is a chance that people who disembark will not be able to join the evacuation flight. We have the utmost concern for the affected Britons and strongly encourage them to register for the evacuation flight.'   A disease expert has branded the Diamond Princess quarantine a 'major failure', 'completely inadequate' and a 'mistake'.  Kentaro Iwata said he had placed himself in a 14-day quarantine for fear of infecting his family after a brief visit on board the ship yesterday.  The Kobe University infectious diseases expert said conditions on the ship were 'completely chaotic' and violated quarantine rules.  His video has racked up more than a million views amid a barrage of criticism of Japanese authorities. 'There was no distinction between the green zone, which is free of infection, and the red zone, which is potentially contaminated by the virus,' he said.  'I was in Africa dealing with the Ebola outbreak. I was in other countries dealing with the cholera outbreak. I was in China in 2003 to deal with SARS... I never had fear of getting infection myself. 'But inside Diamond Princess, I was so scared... because there was no way to tell where the virus is.'  Mr Iwata said he had boarded the ship because he 'wanted to be useful in helping' to contain the virus.   Japan's health Minister Katsunobu Kato defended the government's approach. 'Expert doctors who are members of an infection prevention team are supervising inside the ship,' he said in response to questions from opposition lawmakers. 'If symptoms develop, of course not only that person but also those who had close contact with the person are told to refrain from serving, and workers follow rules such as wearing masks and putting on gloves,' he added. 'According to experts, the infection is under control.'  Passengers who left the ship today were whisked away in yellow Yokohama buses and a fleet of taxis, many of them dragging their luggage with them.  Those with no symptoms and a negative test received an official certificate saying they posed 'no risk of infection'.  They are free to walk out and go home by public transport, Health minister Katsunobu Kato said, saying the country's National Institute of Infectious Diseases has approved the plan.  Passengers are only asked to watch their health conditions carefully for a few days and notify local health authorities if they have any symptoms or worries, he said.  'I'm relieved... I want to take a good rest,' said a 77-year-old Japanese passenger, who declined to give his name. He said he would be boarding Japan's crowded railway system to go home.    However, passengers who were close to the infected virus patients have had their 14-day quarantine clock reset to zero from the date when they last saw them.  The new cases today may add to the number, after another 79 patients were diagnosed in the latest batch of 607 test results.  Of the 79 new patients, 68 are not showing any symptoms of the virus.   In addition, the ship's crew are expected to remain in a longer quarantine after many of them came into contact with guests while delivering food or supervising passengers on deck.  Japan said yesterday that around 500 people were likely to leave the ship today, on the date which has long been scheduled for the end of the quarantine period.   Canada, Australia and Hong Kong are staging their evacuation flights today, cruise operator Princess Cruises said.  Their citizens will require an additional 14-day quarantine when they return home after the 'failed' lockdown on the Diamond Princess.  Some 328 US citizens have already been evacuated from the Diamond Princess, with two planes picking them up from nearby Tokyo over the weekend.  They will spend two weeks in quarantine on military bases in California and Texas after 14 people were confirmed as virus patients before they left the airport.  Of the 3,711 people who were on board the ship when it was quarantined, 542 have tested positive for the virus while many of the other passengers have been confined to windowless cabins on the ship.   As a result, the Diamond Princess is now the biggest cluster of coronavirus cases outside mainland China, where the outbreak began.  Some have raised concerns about allowing people from the cruise ship to board flights home or spread into the notoriously busy Japanese capital, but medics say they are free to travel.  JANUARY 20: The Diamond Princess cruise ship leaves Yokohama for a 14-day round trip in East Asia with 2,666 guests and 1,045 crew.  FEBRUARY 1: Hong Kong reveals that a passenger who left the ship on January 25 has the coronavirus.  FEBRUARY 3: Princess Cruises tells the vessel to return back to Yokohama one day early for the safety of guests.  FEBRUARY 4: Japanese officials screen a handful of passengers and find 10 have the virus, including two Australians and one American. The quarantine begins. FEBRUARY 7: The number of cases begins to soar with 61 people now infected, as medics in hazmat suits go deck-to-deck to screen the passengers.  The new patients include Alan Steele from Wolverhampton. He is separated from his wife Wendy and taken to hospital on the mainland.  Japan announces that medical tests will be expanded.  FEBRUARY 9: Princess Cruises announces it will refund guests for the cruise, flights, hotels and transport. The number of cases reaches 70.  FEBRUARY 12: Japan announces that certain elderly passengers can leave and finish quarantine on the mainland. The number of cases reaches 174.  FEBRUARY 14: British couple David and Sally Abel beg billionaire Sir Richard Branson to help repatriate the 74 Britons trapped on the ship.  FEBRUARY 16: The US evacuates its citizens, as 328 Americans are flown to military bases in California and Texas on two cargo planes from Tokyo. Fourteen of them had tested positive before leaving. Other countries including Canada line up rescue flights.   FEBRUARY 18: The tally of patients spirals out of control as 257 new cases in three days bring the total to 542. David and Sally Abel are among those diagnosed.  Under mounting pressure from passengers, Britain's Foreign Office finally announces it will charter an evacuation flight.   A growing chorus of scientists criticise Japan's handling of the quarantine, saying the cruise ship was an ideal breeding ground for the virus.   FEBRUARY 19: Hundreds of passengers leave the ship as the quarantine officially ends.  Princess Cruises confirms Australia, Hong Kong and Canada will fly their citizens back.  Britain says its flight will be 'later this week' but warns that any UK nationals who leave the ship now may not be able to board the plane.     British passengers David and Sally Abel are likely to face a longer stay in Japan after they tested positive for the virus.  After some confusion last night, Mr Abel confirmed that he and his wife had been infected with the virus.  The 74-year-old from Northamptonshire had become the face of the cruise ship lockdown after sharing regular video updates from his ninth-deck cabin.  His son Steve yesterday blasted the Foreign Office for its handling of the case and urged Britain to bring his parents home despite their positive tests.   However, an FCO spokesman has already quashed those plans, saying yesterday that officials were 'ensuring the best possible care' for patients in Japan with the rescue flight arranged for 'other British nationals'.  Business minister Kwasi Kwarteng said the treatment of the Abels was now a 'matter for the Japanese authorities on the ground'.  'I can't see there's going to be any way we're on that flight to the UK,' Mr Abel acknowledged in his latest Facebook video.  Steve Abel told BBC Breakfast today that the delay was 'very frustrating', saying: 'They are just being messed about. These are two old-age pensioners. They have been through so much and I just want someone to take care of them.  'With my dad's early onset dementia ... he could wake up and be a little bit confused, so my mum needs to be there with him.'  The couple's daughter Jackie Rafferty told ITV's Good Morning Britain today that Mr Abel, who is diabetic and lactose intolerant, had been surviving on corn flakes in recent days.  'I think really for us we just want some answers as well because when they are taken off the ship is that day one again of a quarantine period?,' she asked.  'Or if they spend 45 days in a hostel and then they're taken to a hospital does day one start again at that hospital? Are they then going to be quarantined again when they come back to the UK?  'This is all the things that we want answering now, so mum and dad have a goal to look for and they know what's going to be happening.' Her brother Sean Abel said: 'On Saturday I saw some video footage with dad, the two of them got emotional, they've been absolute rocks for the last two or three weeks.' 'I just want somebody in the UK to take ownership of this, we've got a point of contact and we're just updated as things go on, because once they get moved to the hostel, they might not have wifi, telephone, we've got no idea where they're going.'  Fellow British passenger Alan Steele, who was diagnosed with the virus on February 9, says he has now been given the all-clear by Japanese authorities.  Mr Steele was on his honeymoon with his new wife Wendy but was separated from her and taken to hospital on the mainland after testing positive.  He said that he would have to undergo another two weeks of quarantine when he arrived back in the UK.  A Department of Health spokesman confirmed that the evacuated passengers would stay at Arrowe Park Hospital in the Wirral, where Britons have previously been sent for quarantine after returning from China.  'We would like to take this opportunity to thank NHS and PHE staff who have continued to provide world-class care, as well as the wider Wirral community for their understanding and support. There is no risk to the public, and the hospital will continue to run as normal,' the spokesman said.   Scientists have lined up to condemn Japan's efforts at containing the virus after another 88 people on the giant vessel tested positive yeterday, bringing the total number of infected passengers to 542. Disease experts said the ship had now become a 'source of infection' rather than a safe haven and that keeping all the passengers on board had made the disease spread more rather than stopping it.   The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Japan's efforts might have slowed down the virus but were not enough. 'CDC's assessment is that it may not have been sufficient to prevent transmission among individuals on the ship,' it said in a statement.  One Japanese professor, Kentaro Iwata of Kobe University, made waves last night with a video slamming the 'chaotic' conditions on board after he visited the ship yesterday.  The infectious diseases expert said he had placed himself in a 14-day quarantine for fear of infecting his family after his brief stay on the cruise liner.  'The cruise ship was completely inadequate in terms of infection control,' said Iwata in videos which he posted in English and Japanese last night.  'There was no distinction between the green zone, which is free of infection, and the red zone, which is potentially contaminated by the virus. 'I was in Africa dealing with the Ebola outbreak. I was in other countries dealing with the cholera outbreak. I was in China in 2003 to deal with SARS... I never had fear of getting infection myself. 'But inside Diamond Princess, I was so scared... because there was no way to tell where the virus is.'    Scroll down to read some of the reasons the virus might be spreading faster on the Diamond Princess BEING COOPED UP WITH OTHER PEOPLE CREATES 'BOILING POT OF TRANSMISSION' Infections are 'notorious' for spreading easily on cruise ships because the boats have large numbers of people cooped up in a relatively small space and using the same facilities for days or weeks on end. This raises the risk of getting close to someone who is already infected with a virus, whereas on land someone may only pass them in the street. Past research has found that holidaymakers on-board cruise ships are less likely to maintain good hand hygiene or isolate themselves in their rooms if they become ill. A global health lawyer in Geneva, Dr Roojin Habibi, said shutting all the passengers in together had created a 'boiling pot of transmission' for the virus, The Guardian reported. This is particularly problematic when it comes to viruses like the coronavirus which infect the lungs and spread on someone's breath or by coughing and sneezing. Dr Jimmy Whitworth, a disease expert at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, told MailOnline: 'Obviously keeping all the people in one place increases the risk for them. 'Cruise ships are crowded and people are very close to each other. This is a respiratory virus so it's going to be spreading by droplet spread [breathing/coughing], close contact and contaminated surfaces about the place. 'This virus is highly transmissible and is tough to control in this circumstance. It was worth a go [the ship quarantine] but it's simply not worked.' USA: The US government, on February 16 and 17, flew 340 of its citizens back to the States after evacuating them from the stranded cruise ship. They were put on board two cargo planes, which had separate isolation facilities for 14 passengers who were diagnosed with coronavirus on the way to the airport. All were taken to military bases in California and Texas to serve a further two weeks of quarantine to make sure they are not contagious. South Korea: South Korea sent one of its president's jets to Tokyo on Tuesday, February 18, to evacuate its citizens from the ship. Just five people were on board. Australia: Australia will charter a plane on Wednesday, February 18, to evacuate any of its citizens who want to return home from the ship in Yokohama. It is expected to pick up 208 people and an unknown number of New Zealand citizens.  Canada: Canada will charter a flight on the same day, February 18, to take its citizens home from Tokyo if they are believed to be free of the virus. Hong Kong: Hong Kong will charter a plane to retrieve citizens on board the Diamond Princess. A person who got off the ship in Hong Kong was the first passenger to be diagnosed with coronavirus and triggered the lockdown.  Italy: Italy will send a plane this week to retrieve 35 of its citizens who are on the Diamond Princess – one of whom is the captain of the ship. 25 of the Italians are crew members. No date for the evacuation has been announced yet. Israel: Israel's health ministry announced on February 17 it was speaking to insurance firms of the dozen nationals on the Diamond Princess to organise flying them home. Writing in a scientific paper titled 'Infections on Cruise Ships', disease expert Dr Vivek Kak, from Jackson, Michigan, said: 'The isolated environment of a cruise ship, with close interaction between a vast [group] of individuals, increases the risk of a passenger being exposed to various respiratory secretions and, potentially, to infectious respiratory viruses. 'The presentation of these infections... can range from an upper respiratory tract infection to life-threatening pneumonia.' Sharing the ship with so many others also makes it more likely someone will touch a surface which has been contaminated by someone who is ill. The COVID-19 coronavirus is known to be able to survive on hard surfaces for hours – some estimates suggest days – before it stops being contagious. Handrails, sunbeds or gym equipment, for example, may be a haven for the viruses to live on, and people may catch the infection from contimated surfaces in places like swimming pools or hot tubs. VIRUSES SPREAD FASTER AMONG ELDERLY PEOPLE AND THOSE BRINGING STRAINS FROM DIFFERENT COUNTRIES  Dr Kak also suggested in his paper, which was published in the journal Microbiology Spectrum by the American Society for Microbiology, that the types of people who take cruises may contribute to the spread of illness. He added: 'The typical cruise passenger is often an elderly individual and may have chronic illnesses, which can make him or her more susceptible to infection and its complications.' The immune system naturally gets worse with age, meaning people are less likely to fight off illness so they get sick quicker and stay sick for longer. There are also people from all over the world who join together on cruises, meaning that seasonal viruses and different strains of illnesses are all mashed together in one place. Dr Paul Hunter, a professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia, said: 'Cruise ships take passengers and crew from all over the world, often passengers are relatively elderly, they spend most of their time on board indoors mixing with others.' Dr Kak, from Michigan, added: 'The individuals are often from different cultures, with different immunization backgrounds and health statuses.'  CONTAMINATED CROCKERY, VENTILATION AND SEWAGE COULD ALL SPREAD THE VIRUS  Alan Steele, who was on board the Diamond Princess and diagnosed with coronavirus 11 days ago on February 7, today said he has recovered and is expecting to be released from quarantine tomorrow. He is thought to still be in a hospital in Yokohama, after he was forced to leave his new wife, Wendy, behind when he was confirmed to have the illness. In a post on Facebook earlier Mr Steele, 58, from Wolverhampton, joked 'I will need a cruise to get over this'.   In a more serious note last night he said: 'Lying here trying to sleep and struggling. So much going through my head. 'One thing was how brilliant and great the crew and staff of the Diamond have been as you have to remember they to are victims of this situation. 'So I know they will be financially rewarded but needed to say on behalf of myself and my wife and I think on behalf of the rest of the passengers bloody well done you are great ambassadors for your company and thank you very much.'   Cruise ship passengers have to drink from the same water supplies and eat food from the same kitchens, meaning that if a virus or bacteria gets into these the consequences could be devastating. However, the coronavirus is a respiratory infection – meaning it takes hold in the lungs – so this is not considered to be a major contributor to spread on the Diamond Princess. Dr Whitworth said: '[This is not a worry] for a respiratory virus. 'It's classic for gastrointestinal infections such norovirus but I don't think that would be affecting this situation.' Diarrhoea and vomiting bugs such as noroviruses and salmonella could spread through food or water but the coronavirus is only known to infect people when it is inhaled. There remains, however, the possibility that the virus could spread on contaminated crockery or cutlery if it is not cleaned thoroughly with soap and hot water. Experts have also questioned whether the ventilation or sewage systems could have been implicated in spreading the airborne disease. One said the virus could be spreading by other means which are not known, and argued the quarantine should have worked but it wasn't well managed.  'Obviously the quarantine hasn't worked, and this ship has now become a source of infection,' said Dr Nathalie MacDermott, an expert at King's College London.  'We need to understand how the quarantine measures on board were implemented, what the air filtration on board is like, how the cabins are connected and how waste products are disposed of.' 'There could also be another mode of transmission we're not familiar with,' she said, noting the possibility of environmental spread and the importance of 'deep-cleaning' the entire ship to prevent people from touching contaminated surfaces. During the 2002-2003 outbreak of SARS, a related virus, experts discovered that more than 300 people were infected through a defective sewage system in a Hong Kong housing estate.  Dr MacDermott said it was possible there was a similar issue aboard the Diamond Princess, but that a full investigation was needed. 'There's no reason this should not have worked if it had been done properly,' she said.   Eighty-eight new cases of coronavirus on the Diamond Princess were announced today, showing the virus continues to spread rapidly. That means more people were confirmed in one day on the ship than during the entire outbreak in any country other than China.  The passengers, who come from around the world, are expected to face another two weeks of quarantine once they get off the boat, even if they have a clean bill of health. The virus, named SARS-CoV-2, has infected just over 73,000 people in China and killed 1,868. In the 28 countries and territories affected in the rest of the world, there have been a total of 443 infections and five deaths. On the Diamond Princess there have been 542 infections and no deaths. The global spread of cases looks like this: THE QUARANTINE WAS 'WORTH A TRY' BUT HAS FAILED  Experts now agree that the quarantine on board the Diamond Princess has not worked, but they say it was a good idea and 'worth a try'. Infectious diseases expert at the US National Institutes of Health, Dr Anthony Fauci, said quarantining the cruise ship had been a good idea at the start but had failed. He told USA Today : 'The quarantine process failed. I'd like to sugarcoat it and try to be diplomatic about it, but it failed. People were getting infected on that ship. 'Something went awry in the process of the quarantining on that ship. I don't know what it was, but a lot of people got infected on that ship.' Dr Whitworth told MailOnline: 'I think it was absolutely right to attempt to control [the virus] in this way. 'The primary thing the quarantine was trying to do was stop the infection getting into the general public, which it has done. 'This is an unknown virus and we don't know precisely how to control it. It was worth a go but it's simply not worked.' Dr Hunter, who said it was disappointing that the quarantine had failed, added: 'It's difficult to enforce a quarantine in a ship environment and I'm absolutely sure there were some passengers who think they're not going to let anyone tell them what they can and cannot do.'  HOW CAN OTHER QUARANTINE ZONES AVOID INTERNAL SPREAD? Dr Whitworth said people having space to move away from other people is the key to stopping the virus from spreading. Although it is not always possible – or reasonable – to keep people completely alone in rooms or cells, making sure they are not treading on the toes of others is the most important factor. And places must be kept clean if they have been visited by people with the coronavirus or those suspected of having it. In the UK, people are being quarantined in groups of around 100 in apartments or hotel rooms, with access to outdoor space. Australia is using a former immigration detention centre which has large outdoor grounds around it, and the US is using military bases. Dr Whitworth said: '[Quarantine should be in] a situation where people can have more space. Distancing is more important. My limited understanding of cruise ships is that they have lots of narrow corridors.' He added that, once all the crew and passengers were off the Diamond Princess, the company would have to 'do a military-style deep cleaning of the ship... really go to town.' Someone who is infected with the coronavirus can spread it with just a simple cough or a sneeze, scientists say. Over 2,700 people with the virus are now confirmed to have died and more than 80,000 have been infected. But experts predict the true number of people with the disease could be as high as 350,000 in Wuhan alone.  Here's what we know so far: What is the coronavirus?  A coronavirus is a type of virus which can cause illness in animals and people. Viruses break into cells inside their host and use them to reproduce itself and disrupt the body's normal functions. Coronaviruses are named after the Latin word 'corona', which means crown, because they are encased by a spiked shell which resembles a royal crown. The coronavirus from Wuhan is one which has never been seen before this outbreak. It has been named SARS-CoV-2 by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses. The name stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2. Experts say the bug, which has killed around one in 50 patients since the outbreak began in December, is a 'sister' of the SARS illness which hit China in 2002, so has been named after it. The disease that the virus causes has been named COVID-19, which stands for coronavirus disease 2019. Dr Helena Maier, from the Pirbright Institute, said: 'Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that infect a wide range of different species including humans, cattle, pigs, chickens, dogs, cats and wild animals.  'Until this new coronavirus was identified, there were only six different coronaviruses known to infect humans. Four of these cause a mild common cold-type illness, but since 2002 there has been the emergence of two new coronaviruses that can infect humans and result in more severe disease (Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronaviruses).  'Coronaviruses are known to be able to occasionally jump from one species to another and that is what happened in the case of SARS, MERS and the new coronavirus. The animal origin of the new coronavirus is not yet known.'  The first human cases were publicly reported from the Chinese city of Wuhan, where approximately 11million people live, after medics first started publicly reporting infections on December 31. By January 8, 59 suspected cases had been reported and seven people were in critical condition. Tests were developed for the new virus and recorded cases started to surge. The first person died that week and, by January 16, two were dead and 41 cases were confirmed. The next day, scientists predicted that 1,700 people had become infected, possibly up to 7,000. Just a week after that, there had been more than 800 confirmed cases and those same scientists estimated that some 4,000 – possibly 9,700 – were infected in Wuhan alone. By that point, 26 people had died.  By January 27, more than 2,800 people were confirmed to have been infected, 81 had died, and estimates of the total number of cases ranged from 100,000 to 350,000 in Wuhan alone. By January 29, the number of deaths had risen to 132 and cases were in excess of 6,000.   By February 5, there were more than 24,000 cases and 492 deaths. By February 11, this had risen to more than 43,000 cases and 1,000 deaths.  A change in the way cases are confirmed on February 13 – doctors decided to start using lung scans as a formal diagnosis, as well as laboratory tests – caused a spike in the number of cases, to more than 60,000 and to 1,369 deaths. By February 25, around 80,000 people had been infected and some 2,700 had died.  Where does the virus come from? According to scientists, the virus almost certainly came from bats. Coronaviruses in general tend to originate in animals – the similar SARS and MERS viruses are believed to have originated in civet cats and camels, respectively. The first cases of COVID-19 came from people visiting or working in a live animal market in Wuhan, which has since been closed down for investigation. Although the market is officially a seafood market, other dead and living animals were being sold there, including wolf cubs, salamanders, snakes, peacocks, porcupines and camel meat.  A study by the Wuhan Institute of Virology, published in February 2020 in the scientific journal Nature, found that the genetic make-up virus samples found in patients in China is 96 per cent identical to a coronavirus they found in bats. However, there were not many bats at the market so scientists say it was likely there was an animal which acted as a middle-man, contracting it from a bat before then transmitting it to a human. It has not yet been confirmed what type of animal this was. Dr Michael Skinner, a virologist at Imperial College London, was not involved with the research but said: 'The discovery definitely places the origin of nCoV in bats in China. 'We still do not know whether another species served as an intermediate host to amplify the virus, and possibly even to bring it to the market, nor what species that host might have been.'   So far the fatalities are quite low. Why are health experts so worried about it?  Experts say the international community is concerned about the virus because so little is known about it and it appears to be spreading quickly. It is similar to SARS, which infected 8,000 people and killed nearly 800 in an outbreak in Asia in 2003, in that it is a type of coronavirus which infects humans' lungs. It is less deadly than SARS, however. Another reason for concern is that nobody has any immunity to the virus because they've never encountered it before. This means it may be able to cause more damage than viruses we come across often, like the flu or common cold. Speaking at a briefing in January, Oxford University professor, Dr Peter Horby, said: 'Novel viruses can spread much faster through the population than viruses which circulate all the time because we have no immunity to them. 'Most seasonal flu viruses have a case fatality rate of less than one in 1,000 people. Here we're talking about a virus where we don't understand fully the severity spectrum but it's possible the case fatality rate could be as high as two per cent.' If the death rate is truly two per cent, that means two out of every 100 patients who get it will die.  'My feeling is it's lower,' Dr Horby added. 'We're probably missing this iceberg of milder cases. But that's the current circumstance we're in. 'Two per cent case fatality rate is comparable to the Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918 so it is a significant concern globally.' How does the virus spread? The illness can spread between people just through coughs and sneezes, making it an extremely contagious infection. And it may also spread even before someone has symptoms. It is believed to travel in the saliva and even through water in the eyes, therefore close contact, kissing, and sharing cutlery or utensils are all risky.  Originally, people were thought to be catching it from a live animal market in Wuhan city. But cases soon began to emerge in people who had never been there, which forced medics to realise it was spreading from person to person. There is now evidence that it can spread third hand – to someone from a person who caught it from another person. What does the virus do to you? What are the symptoms? Once someone has caught the COVID-19 virus it may take between two and 14 days, or even longer, for them to show any symptoms – but they may still be contagious during this time. If and when they do become ill, typical signs include a runny nose, a cough, sore throat and a fever (high temperature). The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia. Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people. What have genetic tests revealed about the virus?  Scientists in China have recorded the genetic sequences of around 19 strains of the virus and released them to experts working around the world.  This allows others to study them, develop tests and potentially look into treating the illness they cause.    Examinations have revealed the coronavirus did not change much – changing is known as mutating – much during the early stages of its spread. However, the director-general of China's Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Gao Fu, said the virus was mutating and adapting as it spread through people. This means efforts to study the virus and to potentially control it may be made extra difficult because the virus might look different every time scientists analyse it.    More study may be able to reveal whether the virus first infected a small number of people then change and spread from them, or whether there were various versions of the virus coming from animals which have developed separately. How dangerous is the virus?   The virus has a death rate of around two per cent. This is a similar death rate to the Spanish Flu outbreak which, in 1918, went on to kill around 50million people. However, experts say the true number of patients is likely considerably higher and therefore the death rate considerably lower. Imperial College London researchers estimate that there were 4,000 (up to 9,700) cases in Wuhan city alone up to January 18 – officially there were only 444 there to that date. If cases are in fact 100 times more common than the official figures, the virus may be far less dangerous than currently believed, but also far more widespread.  Experts say it is likely only the most seriously ill patients who are seeking help and are therefore recorded – the vast majority will have only mild, cold-like symptoms. For those whose conditions do become more severe, there is a risk of developing pneumonia which can destroy the lungs and kill them.  Can the virus be cured?  The COVID-19 virus cannot be cured and it is proving difficult to contain. Antibiotics do not work against viruses, so they are out of the question. Antiviral drugs can work, but the process of understanding a virus then developing and producing drugs to treat it would take years and huge amounts of money. No vaccine exists for the coronavirus yet and it's not likely one will be developed in time to be of any use in this outbreak, for similar reasons to the above. The National Institutes of Health in the US, and Baylor University in Waco, Texas, say they are working on a vaccine based on what they know about coronaviruses in general, using information from the SARS outbreak. But this may take a year or more to develop, according to Pharmaceutical Technology. Currently, governments and health authorities are working to contain the virus and to care for patients who are sick and stop them infecting other people. People who catch the illness are being quarantined in hospitals, where their symptoms can be treated and they will be away from the uninfected public. And airports around the world are putting in place screening measures such as having doctors on-site, taking people's temperatures to check for fevers and using thermal screening to spot those who might be ill (infection causes a raised temperature). However, it can take weeks for symptoms to appear, so there is only a small likelihood that patients will be spotted up in an airport. Is this outbreak an epidemic or a pandemic?    The outbreak is an epidemic, which is when a disease takes hold of one community such as a country or region.  Although it has spread to dozens of countries, the outbreak is not yet classed as a pandemic, which is defined by the World Health Organization as the 'worldwide spread of a new disease'. The head of WHO's global infectious hazard preparedness, Dr Sylvie Briand, said: 'Currently we are not in a pandemic. We are at the phase where it is an epidemic with multiple foci, and we try to extinguish the transmission in each of these foci,' the Guardian reported. She said that most cases outside of Hubei had been 'spillover' from the epicentre, so the disease wasn't actually spreading actively around the world. 
