{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:08, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016379/Eleven-kids-youngest-aged-eight-shot-Chicago-holiday-weekend.html }
A wave of gun violence swept through Chicago over the President's Day long weekend, leaving 11 children wounded. Another 15 adults were shot - four of them fatally. At least three of the incidents that were reported between Friday night and early Monday morning involved accidental shootings, where children found weapons and discharged them.  Some of the other instances of gun violence involved a mass shooting inside an apartment building and several drive-by shootings. The first incident occurred at 7.49pm on Friday at a home in the 3100 block of West Fillmore Street, where police said a seven-year-old girl found a gun and it discharged, hitting an 11-year-old boy in the neck.  Video courtesy of WGNTV The child was rushed to Stroger Hospital, where he was listed in serious condition, reported NBC Chicago. At 9.08pm that same evening, gunfire erupted inside an apartment in the 6500 block of South King Drive leaving a half-dozen people wounded, among them two 14-year-old girls and a 15-year-old girl. FRIDAY:  7:49PM:  Seven-year-old girl finds a gun and it discharges, hitting an 11-year-old boy in the neck 9:08PM:  Gunshots erupt inside apartment building, leaving two 14-year-old girls and a 15-year-old girl 10.20PM: young boy playing with a gun accidentally shoots eight-year-old in the shoulder and hand, and 12-year-old in the arm SATURDAY:  12PM: 15-year-old boy is handling a gun inside a home when it goes off, striking a 14-year-old girl in the cheek 5PM: 16-year-old boy is walking on East 113th Street when a person in a passing car opens fire, hitting him in the thigh  SUNDAY:  3AM: 16-year-old boy is walking on West 31st Street when occupant of a black sedan shoots him in the leg 2.30PM: 17-year-old boy is driving on West 63rd Street when another car pulls over and one of the people inside shoots the teen in the face MONDAY:  12AM: 17-year-old girl is shot in the foot after refusing to buy drugs from three men riding in a car  Three of the juvenile victims of the shooting were listed in critical condition at Comer Children's Hospital. No arrests have been made so far in connection to the mass shooting. Just over an hour later, at 10.20pm, a young boy was playing with gun he found at a home in the 4700 block of South Forestville Avenue when the weapon went off, hitting an eight-year-old boy in the shoulder and hand, and a 12-year-old girl in the arm. Both victims were taken to Comer Children's Hospital, where at last check they were listed in fair condition. Shortly after noon on Saturday, a 15-year-old boy was holding a gun at a residence in the 2400 block of South Troy Street when he accidentally fired a round, striking a 14-year-old girl in the cheek. The suspect was taken into custody and the victim was hospitalized in fair condition.   At around 5pm on Saturday, a 16-year-old boy was walking in the 400 block of East 113th Street when a person riding in a light-colored sedan opened fire, striking the teen in the thigh. He was rushed to Advocate Child Medical Center in good condition. Shortly after 3am on Sunday, a 16-year-old boy was walking in the 900 block of West 31st Street when someone shot at him from a black sedan. The unnamed boy was hit in the leg and taken to Stroger Hospital, where he was listed in fair condition. At 2.30pm on Sunday, a 17-year-old boy was driving in the 5000 block of West 63rd Street when another car pulled up beside his and someone inside shot the teen in the face.  The victim was able to drive himself to Advocate Christ Medical Center, where he was listed in fair condition. Shortly after midnight on Monday, a 17-year-old girl was walking with a 19-year-old male friend when a tan SUV carrying three men pulled up beside them. The occupants of the vehicle asked the teens if they wanted to buy drugs. When the pair refused, one of the men in the SUV shot the girl in the foot. She was taken to Illinois Masonic Medical Center in good condition.  The spate of shootings involving children and teens prompted Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot to go on Twitter Saturday and fire off a series of excoriating messages directed at the community.  'Adults are failing these children,' she wrote. 'We cannot normalize children and teens with guns. We need more supports, more love and more accountability.'  Lightfoot continued: 'As a city, we have a fundamental obligation to ensure the safety of our children so that they can pursue their dreams and live a life free from violence. Each and every one of us needs to step up and play a role in fulfilling that commitment.' Chicago Police spokesperson Anthony Guglielmi said no criminal charges were filed in connection to the accidental firearm discharges where children were hurt, because parents had made efforts to lock away their guns, but the kids managed to find the keys.  This latest spate of gun-related incidents comes just a week after Chicago experienced its deadliest weekend so far this year, with 23 people shot, nine of them fatally.  According to a Chicago Sun-Times database, there have been at least 55 homicides in the Windy City since the beginning of 2020.   
