{ By Ross Ibbetson For Mailonline and Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com In Las Vegas, Nevada and Ap   Published:  11:33, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8015859/Mike-Bloomberg-qualifies-Democratic-presidential-debate.html }
Billionaire presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg's flurry of ads in the Super Tuesday states is paying off as he was sitting on top of two news polls out Tuesday.  Bloomberg is now tied with Sen. Bernie Sanders in the commonwealth of Virginia, with both candidates earning 22 per cent, according to a new survey from Monmouth University.  The former New York City mayor has the top spot to himself in Oklahoma, another state where voters head to the polls on March 3. A poll from CHS & Associates shows Bloomberg with 18 per cent support, compared to Sanders' 17 per cent.   The state polls were released on the same day that a national poll propelled Bloomberg onto the Democratic debate stage for the first time since he announced his bid for president in late November 2019.  No sooner had the new polling results been released than President Trump tweeted: 'What Mini Mike is doing is nothing less than a large scale illegal campaign contribution. '...Mini is illegality buying the Democratic Nomination,' the president continued, to which Bloomberg responded 'Why do you want to run against Bernie so badly?' The 78-year-old hopeful, who has splurged $300 million of his fortune into television ads so far, qualified for the Wednesday night Las Vegas debate after receiving 19 per cent nationally in a NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist survey, which showed him in second place behind Sanders.    New Democratic National Committee rules allowed candidates to participate, for the first time, without having a minimum amount of unique campaign donors. This had previously been a barrier for Bloomberg since he's self-funding his own campaign.  Now Democratic hopefuls can participate in the debates by doing well in polls or amassing delegates, since voting has started.     Bloomberg already has a target on his back from the other candidates - especially Sanders, who's the rising frontrunner, and Biden, who was supposed to be the frontrunner and is trying to shake off poor performances in Iowa and New Hampshire.   A senior official for Bloomberg's campaign told reporters in a conference all on Tuesday that only three candidates have a viable path to the nomination: Bernie Sanders, Donald Trump and Bloomberg.  'And of that bunch,' said Bloomberg states director Dan Kanninen, 'only Mike Bloomberg has a chance to beat Donald Trump in the fall election.'  Sanders and Biden have attacked Bloomberg in recent days, with Sanders bringing up Bloomberg's 'racist' stop and frisk policy as New York City mayor and Biden referencing 'the way he talked about Obama.'  His campaign said that it was seeing a 'groundswell of support across the country' and that qualifying for Wednesday's debate 'is the latest sign that Mike's plan and ability to defeat Donald Trump is resonating with more Americans.' 'Mike is looking forward to joining the other Democratic candidates on stage and making the case for why he's the best candidate to defeat Donald Trump and unite the country,' Bloomberg campaign manager Kevin Sheekey said in a statement.  But the prime-time event will be a stark departure from Bloomberg's highly choreographed campaign.   And although he's campaigned in more than two dozen states, Bloomberg does not take questions from voters and delivers a standard stump speech that lasts less than 15 minutes, often reading from a teleprompter.   He encounters the occasional protester, including one who jumped on stage recently in Chattanooga, Tennessee, yelling, 'This is not democracy. This is a plutocracy!' But his friendly crowds usually quickly overwhelm the protesters with chants of 'We like Mike!'  The official response to Bloomberg making the debate was a positive one. Bloomberg is likely to face far more direct fire in the debate. 'We are expecting that he is going to have a lot of attention on him - he's going to be attacked,' a Bloomberg official told Politico Monday night, pointing out that the last time the ex-mayor participated in a political debate was in 2009.   His own team, Politico reported, fears that a not-so-hot performance alongside Democratic candidates who have been debating for months could snuff out some of his polling gains, which have come from the onslaught of TV ads he's purchased in Super Tuesday states.  Bloomberg has been practicing, having his aides play the Democratic candidates.  For instance Bloomberg aide Howard Wolfson, who worked on Hillary Clinton's 2008 campaign, has stood in for Sanders during debate prep, modeling his version after 'Statler and Waldorf,' the two cranky characters from the Muppets, Politico said.  His fellow Democratic contenders have stepped up their attacks against him in recent days, decrying him for trying to 'buy the election' and criticizing his support of the 'stop-and-frisk' tactic while mayor of New York City that led police to target mostly black and Hispanic men for searches. Bloomberg has managed to avoid head-to-head contact by instead focusing on the 14 states that vote on March 3 and the contests that come afterward. He rarely mentions his rivals by name, though his campaign is centered on the idea that none of them can beat President Trump. And Bloomberg, more than anyone, has predicated his campaign on a potential Biden collapse. He's been aggressive in targeting African-American voters in the South, a core demographic for Biden's campaign. Biden said he doesn't think 'you can buy an election.' 'I'm going to get a chance to debate him on everything from redlining to stop and frisk to a whole range of other things,' Biden told reporters last week. Bloomberg has responded to claims he is trying to 'buy the election' by saying he is playing by the rules and has offered to fund the Democratic effort to beat Trump even if he doesn't win the nomination. He will likely be grilled about his support while New York mayor of a policing strategy that ensnared blacks and Latinos disproportionately. Bloomberg apologized for that policy, known as 'stop and frisk,' just before announcing he was running for the Democratic presidential nomination. His campaign has declined to comment on criticism over 2008 remarks in which he tied a housing market collapse to a ban on a discriminatory housing practice known as redlining. He has also expressed regret over making inappropriate jokes. 'Did I ever tell a bawdy joke? Yeah, sure I did. And do I regret it? Yes. It's embarrassing,' Bloomberg told ABC's 'The View' on Jan. 15. 'But, you know, that's the way I grew up.' The Washington Post on Saturday published what it said was a copy of a 32-page booklet distributed at a party in 1990 that included sexist remarks by Bloomberg, reportedly compiled by his colleagues. The Post also chronicled numerous discrimination lawsuits filed against Bloomberg LP, a major provider of news and financial information, over the last three decades. In one case, a saleswoman filed a lawsuit alleging that when she told Bloomberg she was pregnant in 1995, his response was, 'Kill it.' Bloomberg has denied making the remark, and the lawsuit was settled. The Washington Post published comments by a man who said he witnessed Bloomberg's remark. Bloomberg said in the ABC interview that his company had experienced 'very few' cases of sexual harassment given its large size, and said he thinks 'most people would say we're a great place to work.' He said the company would not release women from non-disclosure agreements that were part of legal settlements, some of which stemmed from allegations of sexual harassment. Warren has called on Bloomberg to release the women from the agreements. On Sunday, Bloomberg campaign spokeswoman Julie Wood said in an emailed statement regarding the allegations in the Washington Post: 'Virtually all of this has been reported over the past two decades. In any large organization, there are going to be complaints, but Mike simply does not tolerate any kind of discrimination or harassment, and he's created cultures that are all about equality and inclusion.' Tuesday's NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist poll shows Sanders leading in the Democratic primary contest, at 31 per cent support nationally.  Bloomberg followed with 19 per cent support. Biden, the original Democratic frontrunner, dropped to third place with 15 per cent support natioanlly.  Warren stood at 12 per cent, Klobuchar at 9 per cent and Buttigieg - the winner of the Iowa caucuses and a strong second-place finisher in New Hampshire - with just 8 per cent.  Steyer, who didn't make Wednesday's Las Vegas debate, came in at 2 per cent. And Rep. Tulsi Gabbard had less than 1 per cent support. 5 per cent of respondents were undecided.    The telephone survey of 527 Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents was conducted by the Marist Poll at the Marist Institute for Public Opinion.  It has a margin of error of plus or minus 5.4 percentage points.  JOE BIDEN Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 78 Entered race: April 25, 2019 Career: No current role. A University of Delaware and Syracuse Law graduate, he was first elected to Newcastle City Council in 1969, then won upset election to Senate in 1972, aged 29. Was talked out of quitting before being sworn in when his wife and daughter died in a car crash and served total of six terms. Chaired Judiciary Committee's notorious Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings. Ran for president in 1988, pulled out after plagiarism scandal, ran again in 2008, withdrew after placing fifth in the Iowa Caucuses. Tapped by Obama as his running mate and served two terms as vice president. Contemplated third run in 2016 but decided against it after his son died of brain cancer. Family: Eldest of four siblings born to Joe Biden Sr. and Catherine Finnegan. First wife Neilia Hunter and their one-year-old daughter Naomi died in car crash which their two sons, Joseph 'Beau' and Robert Hunter survived. Married Jill Jacobs in 1976, with whom he has daughter Ashley. Beau died of brain cancer in 2015. Hunter's marriage to Kathleen Buhle, with whom he has three children, ended in 2016 when it emerged Hunter was in a relationship with Beau's widow Hallie, mother of their two children. Hunter admitted cocaine use; his estranged wife accused him of blowing their savings on drugs and prostitutes Religion: Catholic Views on key issues: Ultra-moderate who will emphasize bipartisan record. Will come under fire over record, having voted: to stop desegregation bussing in 1975; to overturn Roe v Wade in 1981; for now controversial 1994 Violent Crime Act; for 2003 Iraq War; and for banking deregulation. Says he is 'most progressive' Democrat. New positions include free college, tax reform, $15 minimum wage. No public position yet on Green New Deal and healthcare. Pro-gun control. Has already apologized to women who say he touched them inappropriately Would make history as: Oldest person elected president Slogan: Our Best Days Still Lie Ahead MIKE BLOOMBERG Age on Inauguration Day: 78 Entered race: November 24, 2019 Career: Currently multi-billionaire CEO of Bloomberg PL, the financial information firm he founded in 1981 and which remains a private company. Educated at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, he became a Wall Street trader at investment bank Salomon Brothers and was laid off in 1981, walking away with $10m in stock which he used to set up his own financial information firm, now one of the world's largest. Three times mayor of New York 2002 to 2013, running first as Republican then as independent; had to get term limits suspended for final term. Once flirted with running for mayor of London where he has a home; holds an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth. Has spent large amounts on philanthropy in line with his political views as well as on political campaigns Family: Born in Brookline, MA, to first-generation Jewish immigrant parents whose own parents had fled Russia. Divorced wife of 18 years, Susan Brown-Meyer, in 1993; former couple have daughters Emma, who has a son with her former boyfriend, and Georgina, who has daughter Zelda with her husband Chris Fissora. The child has a portmanteau surname, Frissberg. Partner since 2000 is Diana Taylor, former New York state banking commissioner, 13 years his junior Religion: Jewish Views on key issues: Self-professed fiscal conservative, although painted as a Democratic moderate by other conservative groups. Opposed to Medicare for all. Social progressive who backed gay marriage early, but has flip-flopped on marijuana legalization, most recently opposing it.. Wants firm action on climate change. Fiercely in favor of gun control. As New York mayor banned smoking in public places and tried to outlaw large sugary drinks. Backs increased immigration. Apologized for his stop-and-frisk policing strategy as mayor Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president; richest president ever; first New York mayor to become president Slogan:  Fighting For Our Future PETE BUTTIGIEG Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Announced formation of exploratory committee January 23, 2019. Formally entered race April 14, 2019 Career: Currently mayor of Sound Bend, Indiana. Harvard grad and Rhodes scholar who got a second degree from Oxford before working as a McKinsey management consultant and being commissioned as a Navy Reserve intelligence officer. Elected South Bend mayor in 2011 and served in combat in 2013, won re-election in 2015 Family: Came out as gay during second mayoral run and married husband Chasten Glezman, a middle school teacher in 2018. Parents were University of Notre Dame academics; his father was Maltese-American. Surname is pronounced BOOT-edge-edge Religion: Raised as a Catholic, now Episcopalian Views on key issues: Has said Democratic party needs a 'fresh start'; wrote an essay in praise of Bernie Sanders aged 17; backed paid parental leave for city employees; other policies unknown  Would make history as: First openly gay and youngest-ever president. First veteran of post-World War II conflict  Slogan: A Fresh Start For America   TULSI GABBARD Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Still to formally file any papers but said she would run on January 11 2019 Career: Currently Hawaii congresswoman. Born on American Samoa, a territory. Raised largely in Hawaii, she co-founded an environmental non-profit with her father as a teenager and was elected to the State Legislature aged 21, its youngest member in history. Enlisted in the National Guard and served two tours, one in Iraq 2004-2006, then as an officer in Kuwait in 2009. Ran for Honolulu City Council in 2011, and House of Representatives in 2012 Family: Married to her second husband, Abraham Williams, a cinematographer since 2015. First marriage to childhood sweetheart Eduardo Tamayo in 2002 ended in 2006. Father Mike Gabbard is a Democratic Hawaii state senator, mother Carol Porter runs a non-profit. Religion: Hindu Views on key issues: Has apologized for anti-abortion and anti-gay marriage views; wants marijuana federally legalized; opposed to most U.S. foreign interventions; backs $15 minimum wage and universal health care; was the second elected Democrat to meet Trump after his 2016 victory Would make history as: First female, Hindu and Samoan-American president; youngest president ever Slogan: Lead with Love     AMY KLOBUCHAR Age on Inauguration Day: 60 Entered race: Announced candidacy February 10, 2019 at snow-drenched rally in her native Minneapolis Career: Currently Minnesota senator. Yale and University of Chicago law graduate who became a corporate lawyer. First ran unsuccessfully for office in 1994 as Hennepin, MI, county attorney, and won same race in 1998, then in 2002, without opposition. Ran for Senate in 2006 and won 58-38; re-elected in 2012 and 2018 Family: Married to John Bessler, law professor at University of Baltimore and expert on capital punishment. Daughter Abigail Bessler, 23, works fora Democratic member of New York City council. Father Jim, 90, was a veteran newspaper columnist who has written a memoir of how his alcoholism hurt his family; mom Rose is a retired grade school teacher Religion: Congregationalist (United Church of Christ) Views on key issues: Seen as a mainstream liberal: says she wants 'universal health care' but has not spelled out how; pro-gun control; pro-choice; backs $15 minimum wage; no public statements on federal marijuana legalization; has backed pro-Israel law banning the 'boycott, divestment and sanctions' movement; spoke out against abolishing ICE Would make history as: First female president Slogan: Let's Get To Work   BERNIE SANDERS Age on Inauguration Day: 79 Entered race: Sources said on January 25, 2019, that he would form exploratory committee. Officially announced February 19 Career: Currently Vermont senator. Student civil rights and anti-Vietnam activist who moved to Vermont and worked as a carpenter and radical film-maker. Serial failed political candidate in the 1970s, he ran as a socialist for mayor of Burlington in 1980 and served two terms ending in 1989, and win a seat in Congress as an independent in 1990. Ran for Senate in 2006 elections as an independent with Democratic endorsement and won third term in 2018. Challenged Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination in 2016 but lost. Campaign has since been hit by allegations of sexual harassment  - for which he has apologized - and criticized for its 'Bernie bro' culture Family: Born to a Jewish immigrant father and the daughter of Jewish immigrant parents in Brooklyn, New York. First marriage to college sweetheart Deborah Shiling Messing in 1964 ended in divorce in 1966; had son Levi in 1969 with then girlfriend Susan Cambell Mott. Married Jone O'Meara in 1988 and considers her three children, all adults, his own. The couple have seven grandchildren. His older brother Larry is a former Green Party councilor in Oxfordshire, England.  Religion: Secular Jewish  Views on key issues: Openly socialist and standard bearer for the Democratic party's left-turn. Wants federal $15 minimum wage; banks broken up; union membership encouraged; free college tuition; universal health care; re-distributive taxation; he opposed Iraq War and also U.S. leading the fight against ISIS and wants troops largely out of Afghanistan and the Middle East Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president Slogan: Not me. Us. TOM STEYER  Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 63 Entered race: July 9, 2019 Career: Currently retired. New York-born to wealthy family, he was educated at elite Phillips Exeter Academy, and Yale, then Stanford Business School. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs banker who founded his own hedge fund in 1986 and made himself a billionaire; investments included subprime lenders, private prisons and coal mines. Stepped down in 2012 to focus on advocating for alternative energy. Longtime Democratic activist and donor who started campaign to impeach Trump in October 2017. Net worth of $1.6 billion has made him one of the Democrats' biggest single donors Family: Married Kathryn Taylor in 1986; they have four adult children who have been told they will not inherit the bulk of his fortune. Announced last November he and his wife would live apart. Father Roy was a Nuremberg trials prosecutor Religion: Episcopalian Views on key issues: On the left of the field despite being a hedge fund tycoon. Backs single-payer health care, minimum wage rises and free public college. Previously spoke in favor of Bernie Sanders' agenda. Aggressive backer of climate change action, including ditching fossil fuels Would make history as: Richest Democratic president ever Slogan: Actions Speak Louder Than Words   ELIZABETH WARREN Age on Inauguration Day: 71 Entered race:  Set up exploratory committee December 31, 2018 Career: Currently Massachusetts senator. Law lecturer and academic who became an expert on bankruptcy law and tenured Harvard professor. Ran for Senate and won in 2012, defeating sitting Republican Scott Brown, held it in 2018 60% to 36%. Was short-listed to be Hillary's running mate and campaigned hard for her in 2016 Family: Twice-married mother of two and grandmother of three. First husband and father of her children was her high-school sweetheart. Second husband Bruce Mann is Harvard law professor. Daughter Amelia Tyagi and son Alex Warren have both been involved in her campaigns. Has controversially claimed Native American roots; DNA test suggested she is as little as 1,064th Native American Religion: Raised Methodist, now described as Christian with no fixed church Views on key issues: Was a registered Republican who voted for the party but registered as a Democrat in 1996. Pro: higher taxes on rich; banking regulation; Dream Act path to citizenship for 'dreamers'; abortion and gay rights; campaign finance restrictions; and expansion of public provision of healthcare - although still to spell out exactly how that would happen. Against: U.S. presence in Afghanistan and Syria; liberalization of gambling Would make history as: First female president  Slogan: Warren Has A Plan For That  AND THE 21 WHO HAVE WITHDRAWN     MICHAEL BENNET, Colorado senator CORY BOOKER, New Jersey Senator  STEVE BULLOCK, Montana governor  JULIÁN CASTRO, former Housing Secretary KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, New York senator BILL DE BLASIO, New York City mayor  JOHN DELANEY, former Maryland Congressman MIKE GRAVEL, Former Alaska governor  KAMALA HARRIS,California senator   JOHN HICKENLOOPER, Former Colorado governor JAY INSLEE, Washington governor  WAYNE MESSAM, mayor of Miramar, Florida  SETH MOULTON, Massachusetts congressman RICHARD OJEDA, former West Virginia state senator BETO O'ROURKE, former Texas congressman DEVAL PATRICK, former Massachusetts governor  TIM RYAN, Ohio congressman JOE SESTAK, former Pennsylvania congressman  ERIC SWALWELL, California congressman MARIANNE WILLIAMSON, author ANDREW YANG, entrepreneur   
