housing
{ By Lauren Fruen and Megan Sheets For Dailymail.com  and Reuters   Published:  04:25, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8040617/The-notorious-Rikers-Island-prison-rapist-Harvey-Weinstein-held-sentencing.html }
New York's notorious Rikers Island prison complex, where Harvey Weinstein will be jailed while awaiting sentencing for rape and sexual assault, is antithesis of his covetable former life, with violence and alleged corruption running rampant in the dilapidated, vermin-infested halls.   The 400-acre lockup, nicknamed Gladiator School, Torture Island and the Guantánamo of New York, has long been plagued by gang brutality, overcrowding, and allegations of human rights violations so severe that Mayor Bill de Blasio vowed in 2017 to close it down within a decade.  Located on the East River between Queens and the Bronx, Rikers Island sits in the shadow of the glittering Manhattan skyline Weinstein is accustomed to enjoying from the comfort of his apartment and now-shuttered offices in Midtown.  On Monday, the disgraced producer began his day with an expensive coffee and Acqua Panna mineral water at a breakfast meeting in a Four Seasons hotel in the Financial District.  Hours later in nearby Manhattan Supreme Court, a jury found Weinstein guilty of raping one woman and sexually assaulting another, after which the judge remanded him to Rikers Island until his sentencing on March 11.   Weinstein was instead diverted to Bellevue Hospital Center by ambulance on Monday after suffering chest pains. But he will arrive at the jail after his release from the hospital.  Weinstein's lawyers are asking that the 67-year-old, whose inmate number will be 06581138Z, be sent to the jail's North Infirmary Command - two dank buildings that house sick inmates and those with enough notoriety to require protection from their neighbors.  An attorney for Weinstein reminded Judge James Burke on Monday of some of her client's ailments, noting he takes several medications and requires injections in his eyes to forestall blindness.  He entered and left the Manhattan court each day leaning on a walker, a remnant of back surgery he had in December according to his lawyers. New York City's Department of Correction declined to say where he would be sent. Housed partly in the jail's original hospital building, the North Infirmary Command is not much of a respite, according to people who have worked there.  'It's not the cleanest,' Malissa Allen, a mental health counselor who has treated inmates at the infirmary, said in an interview. 'It's a very old jail. A lot of people complain about the smell. It has the old basement smell.'  Rikers is one of America's most high-profile prisons and has incarcerated celebrities including Sid Vicious of the Sex Pistols, rapper Tupac Shakur and former International Monetary Fund managing director Dominique Strauss-Kahn. Lawyers and criminologists have been calling for the jail's closure for years, citing its age and regular violent incidents against inmates and guards that are blamed in part on its remote location, which makes family visits difficult.  In 2015, federal prosecutors in New York concluded after an investigation that guards routinely abused inmates at the jail.  Stats released last fall revealed that violent incidents have increased every year since that 2015 investigation, despite efforts over the years to improve security and an increased scrutiny of conditions at Rikers.  New York city council speaker Corey Johnson recently called the jail 'a symbol of brutality and inhumanity'.  Beyond the violence, the jail is known to be in very poor condition.  'It's not uncommon to walk into a cell and the paint is coming off the walls,' former inmate Johnny Perez told France14 in 2018.  'There are roaches – definitely roaches – mice and rats. I've had mice climb up on the bed that I'm sleeping on and that's one of the scariest things ever.' Perez, who landed at the jail on multiple occasions between 2011 and 2017, described the putrefying stench as 'toxic, like sewage mixed with cheap disinfectant' and said it 'sticks to your clothes'. The jail's steel and concrete structure does little to regulate temperature, leaving it ice cold in winter and unbearably hot in summer.   Operated by the New York City Department of Correction, the prison was first open in 1935 to house prisoners from the overcrowded and dilapidated jail on Roosevelt Island.   The main building went up in 1932, according to the Correction Officers' Benevolent Association, the labor union representing the jail's guards. Weinstein would likely wear a tan jumpsuit to indicate he has yet to be sentenced, Allen said, with his hearing set for March 11. Sentenced inmates are dressed in green. Weinstein's bail was revoked and he was handcuffed shortly after the jury found him guilty of sexually assaulting former production assistant Mimi Haleyi in 2006 and raping Jessica Mann, a onetime aspiring actress, in 2013. He has maintained his innocence and a long appeals battle is likely. It was not clear in what kind of room or cell Weinstein would be held. There are bunk rooms with up to 40 or so patients, which have beeping hospital machines to monitor vital signs, Allen said. He may end up in a private or semi-private cell, as often happens with inmates who might be threatened by others. 'I would think if you had to be at Rikers Island, you might prefer the infirmary,' Lisa Pelosi, a criminal defense lawyer in New York, said in an interview. 'But it is definitely not a pleasant place.'     Rikers Island is one of the most recognizable of US prison names, together with Sing Sing, located in Ossining in New York state, San Quentin in California and ADX in Colorado, a so-called 'supermax' prison nicknamed the 'Alcatraz of the Rockies'. Fake heiress Anna Sorokin had been in custody at Rikers Island since her October 2017 arrest, but is believed to have recently been moved upstate to the Albion Correctional Facility.   The number of inmates at Rikers has fallen from around 20,000 in the 1990s to around 7,000.  The 400-acre island in the East River, connected by bridge to the borough of Queens, is home to nine jails.  Most inmates are defendants awaiting trial or serving sentences of less than one year.  
