housing
{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline and Sam Blanchard Senior Health Reporter For Mailonline   Published:  03:57, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8014893/FCO-working-organise-flight-home-Britons-coronavirus-cruise-ship.html }
Britons on board the coronavirus-struck Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan have until 11am to tell the British government if they want to be evacuated.   The Foreign Office is 'working to organise' a flight back to the UK for British nationals on board the ship, which is quarantined off the coast of Japan. The department has faced pressure to fly home the 74 Britons on the vessel after the US chartered two planes and repatriated 340 of its citizens, and South Korea sent one of its president's jets to rescue five people. The Diamond Princess has been docked off the coast of Yokohama since February 3, with at least 542 passengers already struck down by the virus.  A further 88 people tested positive today but the Japanese authorities and ship operators appear to be going ahead with ending the quarantine tomorrow. The illness has been spreading rapidly among the holidaymakers, who have more cases of coronavirus among them than any country outside of China. The UK Foreign Office said in a statement: 'Given the conditions on board, we are working to organise a flight back to the UK for British nationals on the Diamond Princess as soon as possible.' Two of the passengers pleading to be evacuated, David Abel and his wife, Sally, have tested positive for the infection and may now not be allowed to return home.  The US has broken the quarantine on the Diamond Princess by taking its passengers off, and a government official said the protective measure had 'gone awry' and failed. Canadian and Australian flights will land in Tokyo to evacuate passengers on Wednesday, and Italy, Hong Kong and Israel are making plans to follow suit. Passengers wanting to fly back to the UK have got until 11am UK time (8pm local time) today to notify the Foreign Office (FCO), The Telegraph reported. A spokesperson for the FCO said: 'Our staff are contacting British nationals on board to make the necessary arrangements.  'We urge all those who have not yet responded to get in touch immediately.' Earlier, a Prime Minister's spokesman said those on board the ship docked near Yokohama, Japan, were being contacted about the possibility of a repatriation flight. On Monday, the Japanese Health Ministry confirmed 99 more people on board have been diagnosed with the illness, bringing the total to 454. These make up the majority of all the 520 cases confirmed in Japan, where one person has died from the disease. UK:  The UK government is in the process of planning an evacuation flight for around 70 citizens on board, but has not confirmed a date. USA: The US government, on February 16 and 17, flew 340 of its citizens back to the States after evacuating them from the stranded cruise ship. They were put on board two cargo planes, which had separate isolation facilities for 14 passengers who were diagnosed with coronavirus on the way to the airport. All were taken to military bases in California and Texas to serve a further two weeks of quarantine to make sure they are not contagious. South Korea: South Korea sent one of its president's jets to Tokyo on Tuesday, February 18, to evacuate its citizens from the ship. Just five people were on board. Australia: Australia will charter a plane on Wednesday, February 18, to evacuate any of its citizens who want to return home from the ship in Yokohama. It is expected to pick up 208 people and an unknown number of New Zealand citizens.  Canada: Canada will charter a flight on the same day, February 18, to take its citizens home from Tokyo if they are believed to be free of the virus. Hong Kong: Hong Kong will charter a plane to retrieve citizens on board the Diamond Princess. A person who got off the ship in Hong Kong was the first passenger to be diagnosed with coronavirus and triggered the lockdown.  Italy: Italy will send a plane this week to retrieve 35 of its citizens who are on the Diamond Princess – one of whom is the captain of the ship. 25 of the Italians are crew members. No date for the evacuation has been announced yet. Israel: Israel's health ministry announced on February 17 it was speaking to insurance firms of the dozen nationals on the Diamond Princess to organise flying them home.  The government announcement comes after Sir Richard Branson said his airline, Virgin Atlantic, was 'in discussions' about whether it could help those stranded. He responded via Twitter to a video appeal from David and Sally Abel, who asked the British businessman and philanthropist to charter a plane especially. The couple's son, Steve, renewed appeals for the Government to help his parents, who he feared could become separated abroad. Mr Abel junior said the conditions on the cruise ship were making it difficult for his father to manage his diabetes and that he is also suffering from a tooth infection. He added he could hear his father vomiting in the bathroom the last time he spoke to his mother on the phone.  But he believed it might be due to 'shock' rather than a symptom of the disease. 'The quarantine in Japan has been a failure,' Mr Abel said. 'That is obvious, so (my parents) are obviously going to have to go through it again. 'I would like them to go through it here where the food is more suitable for my dad. 'I'm not actually that worried about the virus, looking at the recovery stats. It is more about the stress, the diet.' Speaking on BBC Breakfast, he added: 'My mum breaks down in tears frequently, my dad is short-tempered. 'They are not getting any communication from our country, so they are in the dark and feeling very unloved.'  After the couple were diagnosed with the illness, Mr Abel senior claimed he and his wife were being taken to a hostel on the mainland instead of a hospital. In a strange post online after he confirmed their diagnoses, Mr Abel said: 'Frankly I think this is a setup! We are not being taken to a hospital but a hostel.  'That's where partners are sent waiting out [their] quarantine. No phone, no Wi-Fi and no medical facilities. I really am smelling a very big rat here.' Princess Cruises president Jan Swartz said the firm has worked with authorities to send more doctors and nurses on board the ship and has helped fulfil 2,000 prescription requests. However, there is still uncertainty over whether passengers will be able to leave the ship at the end of the 14-day quarantine period on Wednesday. A photo posted on a Facebook page for people on board purports to show a letter from the cruise ship crew which indicates holidaymakers must face more quarantine if and when they are allowed off the ship. The letter, posted online by Tracy Herter, shows Princess Cruises' executive vice president, Anthony Kaufman write 'not everyone may be offered a chance to disembark before the end of the quarantine period'. He said the Japanese government would be testing people for the virus in phases. 'If the test is positive, those individuals will be transported to a local hospital for further evaluation,' the letter said. 'If the test is negative, you will be given the option to remain on the ship or leave the ship and be transported to a quarantine housing facility. If any of you wish to decline this disembarkation option, you of course are welcome to stay onboard Diamond Princess.' The letter suggests all passengers will face further time in isolation – likely another two weeks – before they are allowed to go home. People leaving Japan on government evacuation flights are expected to be held in quarantine for a fortnight in their own countries.  Infectious diseases expert at the US National Institutes of Health, Dr Anthony Fauci, said quarantining the cruise ship had been a good idea at the start but had failed. He told USA Today: 'The quarantine process failed. I'd like to sugarcoat it and try to be diplomatic about it, but it failed. People were getting infected on that ship.  'Something went awry in the process of the quarantining on that ship. I don't know what it was, but a lot of people got infected on that ship.' Someone who is infected with the coronavirus can spread it with just a simple cough or a sneeze, scientists say. Over 2,700 people with the virus are now confirmed to have died and more than 80,000 have been infected. But experts predict the true number of people with the disease could be as high as 350,000 in Wuhan alone.  Here's what we know so far: What is the coronavirus?  A coronavirus is a type of virus which can cause illness in animals and people. Viruses break into cells inside their host and use them to reproduce itself and disrupt the body's normal functions. Coronaviruses are named after the Latin word 'corona', which means crown, because they are encased by a spiked shell which resembles a royal crown. The coronavirus from Wuhan is one which has never been seen before this outbreak. It has been named SARS-CoV-2 by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses. The name stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2. Experts say the bug, which has killed around one in 50 patients since the outbreak began in December, is a 'sister' of the SARS illness which hit China in 2002, so has been named after it. The disease that the virus causes has been named COVID-19, which stands for coronavirus disease 2019. Dr Helena Maier, from the Pirbright Institute, said: 'Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that infect a wide range of different species including humans, cattle, pigs, chickens, dogs, cats and wild animals.  'Until this new coronavirus was identified, there were only six different coronaviruses known to infect humans. Four of these cause a mild common cold-type illness, but since 2002 there has been the emergence of two new coronaviruses that can infect humans and result in more severe disease (Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronaviruses).  'Coronaviruses are known to be able to occasionally jump from one species to another and that is what happened in the case of SARS, MERS and the new coronavirus. The animal origin of the new coronavirus is not yet known.'  The first human cases were publicly reported from the Chinese city of Wuhan, where approximately 11million people live, after medics first started publicly reporting infections on December 31. By January 8, 59 suspected cases had been reported and seven people were in critical condition. Tests were developed for the new virus and recorded cases started to surge. The first person died that week and, by January 16, two were dead and 41 cases were confirmed. The next day, scientists predicted that 1,700 people had become infected, possibly up to 7,000. Just a week after that, there had been more than 800 confirmed cases and those same scientists estimated that some 4,000 – possibly 9,700 – were infected in Wuhan alone. By that point, 26 people had died.  By January 27, more than 2,800 people were confirmed to have been infected, 81 had died, and estimates of the total number of cases ranged from 100,000 to 350,000 in Wuhan alone. By January 29, the number of deaths had risen to 132 and cases were in excess of 6,000.   By February 5, there were more than 24,000 cases and 492 deaths. By February 11, this had risen to more than 43,000 cases and 1,000 deaths.  A change in the way cases are confirmed on February 13 – doctors decided to start using lung scans as a formal diagnosis, as well as laboratory tests – caused a spike in the number of cases, to more than 60,000 and to 1,369 deaths. By February 25, around 80,000 people had been infected and some 2,700 had died.  Where does the virus come from? According to scientists, the virus almost certainly came from bats. Coronaviruses in general tend to originate in animals – the similar SARS and MERS viruses are believed to have originated in civet cats and camels, respectively. The first cases of COVID-19 came from people visiting or working in a live animal market in Wuhan, which has since been closed down for investigation. Although the market is officially a seafood market, other dead and living animals were being sold there, including wolf cubs, salamanders, snakes, peacocks, porcupines and camel meat.  A study by the Wuhan Institute of Virology, published in February 2020 in the scientific journal Nature, found that the genetic make-up virus samples found in patients in China is 96 per cent identical to a coronavirus they found in bats. However, there were not many bats at the market so scientists say it was likely there was an animal which acted as a middle-man, contracting it from a bat before then transmitting it to a human. It has not yet been confirmed what type of animal this was. Dr Michael Skinner, a virologist at Imperial College London, was not involved with the research but said: 'The discovery definitely places the origin of nCoV in bats in China. 'We still do not know whether another species served as an intermediate host to amplify the virus, and possibly even to bring it to the market, nor what species that host might have been.'   So far the fatalities are quite low. Why are health experts so worried about it?  Experts say the international community is concerned about the virus because so little is known about it and it appears to be spreading quickly. It is similar to SARS, which infected 8,000 people and killed nearly 800 in an outbreak in Asia in 2003, in that it is a type of coronavirus which infects humans' lungs. It is less deadly than SARS, however. Another reason for concern is that nobody has any immunity to the virus because they've never encountered it before. This means it may be able to cause more damage than viruses we come across often, like the flu or common cold. Speaking at a briefing in January, Oxford University professor, Dr Peter Horby, said: 'Novel viruses can spread much faster through the population than viruses which circulate all the time because we have no immunity to them. 'Most seasonal flu viruses have a case fatality rate of less than one in 1,000 people. Here we're talking about a virus where we don't understand fully the severity spectrum but it's possible the case fatality rate could be as high as two per cent.' If the death rate is truly two per cent, that means two out of every 100 patients who get it will die.  'My feeling is it's lower,' Dr Horby added. 'We're probably missing this iceberg of milder cases. But that's the current circumstance we're in. 'Two per cent case fatality rate is comparable to the Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918 so it is a significant concern globally.' How does the virus spread? The illness can spread between people just through coughs and sneezes, making it an extremely contagious infection. And it may also spread even before someone has symptoms. It is believed to travel in the saliva and even through water in the eyes, therefore close contact, kissing, and sharing cutlery or utensils are all risky.  Originally, people were thought to be catching it from a live animal market in Wuhan city. But cases soon began to emerge in people who had never been there, which forced medics to realise it was spreading from person to person. There is now evidence that it can spread third hand – to someone from a person who caught it from another person. What does the virus do to you? What are the symptoms? Once someone has caught the COVID-19 virus it may take between two and 14 days, or even longer, for them to show any symptoms – but they may still be contagious during this time. If and when they do become ill, typical signs include a runny nose, a cough, sore throat and a fever (high temperature). The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia. Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people. What have genetic tests revealed about the virus?  Scientists in China have recorded the genetic sequences of around 19 strains of the virus and released them to experts working around the world.  This allows others to study them, develop tests and potentially look into treating the illness they cause.    Examinations have revealed the coronavirus did not change much – changing is known as mutating – much during the early stages of its spread. However, the director-general of China's Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Gao Fu, said the virus was mutating and adapting as it spread through people. This means efforts to study the virus and to potentially control it may be made extra difficult because the virus might look different every time scientists analyse it.    More study may be able to reveal whether the virus first infected a small number of people then change and spread from them, or whether there were various versions of the virus coming from animals which have developed separately. How dangerous is the virus?   The virus has a death rate of around two per cent. This is a similar death rate to the Spanish Flu outbreak which, in 1918, went on to kill around 50million people. However, experts say the true number of patients is likely considerably higher and therefore the death rate considerably lower. Imperial College London researchers estimate that there were 4,000 (up to 9,700) cases in Wuhan city alone up to January 18 – officially there were only 444 there to that date. If cases are in fact 100 times more common than the official figures, the virus may be far less dangerous than currently believed, but also far more widespread.  Experts say it is likely only the most seriously ill patients who are seeking help and are therefore recorded – the vast majority will have only mild, cold-like symptoms. For those whose conditions do become more severe, there is a risk of developing pneumonia which can destroy the lungs and kill them.  Can the virus be cured?  The COVID-19 virus cannot be cured and it is proving difficult to contain. Antibiotics do not work against viruses, so they are out of the question. Antiviral drugs can work, but the process of understanding a virus then developing and producing drugs to treat it would take years and huge amounts of money. No vaccine exists for the coronavirus yet and it's not likely one will be developed in time to be of any use in this outbreak, for similar reasons to the above. The National Institutes of Health in the US, and Baylor University in Waco, Texas, say they are working on a vaccine based on what they know about coronaviruses in general, using information from the SARS outbreak. But this may take a year or more to develop, according to Pharmaceutical Technology. Currently, governments and health authorities are working to contain the virus and to care for patients who are sick and stop them infecting other people. People who catch the illness are being quarantined in hospitals, where their symptoms can be treated and they will be away from the uninfected public. And airports around the world are putting in place screening measures such as having doctors on-site, taking people's temperatures to check for fevers and using thermal screening to spot those who might be ill (infection causes a raised temperature). However, it can take weeks for symptoms to appear, so there is only a small likelihood that patients will be spotted up in an airport. Is this outbreak an epidemic or a pandemic?    The outbreak is an epidemic, which is when a disease takes hold of one community such as a country or region.  Although it has spread to dozens of countries, the outbreak is not yet classed as a pandemic, which is defined by the World Health Organization as the 'worldwide spread of a new disease'. The head of WHO's global infectious hazard preparedness, Dr Sylvie Briand, said: 'Currently we are not in a pandemic. We are at the phase where it is an epidemic with multiple foci, and we try to extinguish the transmission in each of these foci,' the Guardian reported. She said that most cases outside of Hubei had been 'spillover' from the epicentre, so the disease wasn't actually spreading actively around the world. 
