{ By James Pero For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:37, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-8013141/Apple-rolls-feature-lets-users-buy-products-augmented-reality-directly-phones.html }
Apple is letting users buy products directly through augmented reality with a new feature in its Quick Look tool. Starting last week, the company updated its Quick Look app which lets retailers offer a 3D model or sticker of products in augmented reality to costumers on iOS to offer instant shopping. Now, with the tap of a button, users can buy the product they're viewing in AR instantly using Apple Pay or another form of mobile payment.  Among the companies that already support the feature are Home Depot, Wayfair, and 1-800-Flowers according to TechCrunch who first reported on the feature. With Quick Look, users can browse furniture on Wayfair, for example, and superimpose products in their environment to get a sense for how a couch, table, chair, etc... may actually look before buying it. Quick Look is also rolling out more options for retailers aside from payment buttons, including the ability to pull up a customer support chat to ask more questions about a product or check if any local retailers have an item in stock. A new spatial audio feature is also reportedly on the way for Quick Look according to TechCrunch. This feature will allow users to get a feel for sound, for example a speaker, and will change depending on where one is standing in a room. Apple has continued to advance its presence in the AR field throughout the last several years and has been rumored to be in development on multiple pieces of AR hardware.  According to reports last year, one of those products will be a headset that's capable of toggling between augmented reality and a more immersive virtual reality, that will take a similar shape to a more compact virtual reality headset from the Facebook-owned, Oculus. Apple's headset will also reportedly boast some impressive capabilities that include 8k displays in both eyes and the ability for one to stand either in front of or behind augmented objects. Concurrently, Apple is also reportedly developing a set of AR  glasses which are slightly more mysterious.  Preliminary information suggests they will resemble high end eyeware, though they will have thicker frames capable of housing key technology.  The company is also reportedly considering technology that would darken the glasses lenses when using augmented reality - a feature that would alert those around you that the device's AR is engaged. 
