housing
{ By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:53, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039535/Tasmanian-locals-terrorised-neighbour-hell-smashes-windows-flies-Nazi-flags.html }
A hellish housing commission tenant who hangs up Nazi flags, spray-paints swastikas on her bin and blasts music all night has left her neighbours living in fear. Fed-up residents say the public housing tenant is causing chaos in their once-quiet neighbourhood in the Tasmanian town of Perth, near Launceston.  Daily Mail Australia has been sent photos of some of the destruction, including broken windows at the tenant's home, where several painted Nazi swastikas can be seen hanging from the window in full view of the public.   Locals say their complaints to police and other authorities about the woman's behaviour have fallen on deaf ears.   One resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said neighbours were fed-up with the constant abuse from the 'abhorrent' tenant. 'She has smashed the windows multiple times and constantly blasts music from her car at all hours of the day and night and the police are there frequently,' the resident claimed. 'A new occurrence is that she has spray-painted the council garbage bin and street facing windows with Nazi swastikas. 'I made a call to Housing Tasmania to complain and they said they would deal with it, the woman was observed to wash the spray paint off the windows but has taken to flying a painted Nazi flag in the window.'   Anti-Defamation Commission chairman Dr Dvir Abramovich called on community leaders and Tasmanian Premier Peter Gutwein to intervene.  'As we witness a resurgence of antisemitism in our nation, spiking to alarming levels, the time has come to align actions with words,' Dr Abramovich said. 'Our elected representatives must understand that right-wing extremists are a clear and present danger to our safety, and that allowing them to freely and legally sow fear by using the emblems of genocide and death, that are as threatening as facing a gun, cannot continue. 'Leaders need to lead, and I call on Premier Gutwein and his government to take the moral high ground and to legislate to ban the public display of this evil symbol— that violates every value that Australians cherish and live their lives by—without delay.  'If he does so, I will personally stand shoulder to shoulder with him in applauding that triumphant and righteous act.' A Tasmania Police spokeswoman told Daily Mail Australia it's aware of the matter and is working with other relevant parties to find a resolution. Daily Mail Australia has also contacted Department of Communities Tasmania and Northern Midlands Council for comment, which are yet to respond. While there no specific laws in Tasmania that make flying the Nazi flag a criminal offence, there are civil anti-vilification provisions. 'A person must not incite hatred towards, serious contempt for, or severe ridicule of, a person or a group of persons on the grounds of – (a) The race of the person or any member of the group' (etc),' section 19 of the Anti-Discrimination Act states. 
