housing
{ By Will Kirkman For Thisismoney.co.uk    Published:  07:49, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/mortgageshome/article-7962019/Could-inheritance-tax-overhaul-hit-Bank-Mum-Dad.html }
The Bank of Mum and Dad helps to fund as many as 60 per cent of first-time buyer home purchases in some parts of the UK.  With high house prices making raising a deposit tough, parents and grandparents regularly step in with potentially tens of thousands of pounds to give the younger generations a leg-up. But proposed changes to inheritance tax could make it more costly for families to help their children onto the housing ladder, with a proposed 10 per cent tax levied on sums above £30,000 given away each year. Research by mortgage broker Habito has revealed that on average 40 per cent of all first-time buyers receive some or all of their inheritance early to put towards their deposit, but that figure varies substantially around the country. It is as high as 60 per cent in London and 45 per cent in the South East, but these areas drag up the overall average with most places falling between 25 per cent 35 per cent of first-time buyers getting an early inheritance to help out. Under the current rules, just £3,000 a year can be given away outside of the inheritance tax net, but if the person making the gift survives for seven years afterwards it is no longer liable for IHT.  A taper system sees the inheritance tax levied step down from 40 per cent through that seven-year period. However, new inheritance tax rules recently proposed by MPs would see this system scrapped and replaced with a 10 per cent tax on annual gifts of more than £30,000, potentially eating into the deposits given to first-time buyers to secure their first home. In return for that 10 per cent gift tax, inheritance tax itself was proposed to be slashed to 10 per cent and the current nil rate bands of £325,000 tax-free, or £650,000 for a married couple, would remain as a tax-free death allowance.  The average first-time buyer deposit varies widely across the country, from £106,000 in London, to £18,600 in County Durham, according to banking giant Halifax. Currently, in theory this could all be gifted to the buyer by a parent tax-free as long as they didn't die within the next seven years. If they did, it would be considered part of their estate liable for inheritance tax. Above £325,000 given away by any individual, this is imposed at 40 per cent. Under the proposed overhaul this would all be replaced by a a single 'personal gift allowance'.  This could make gifting a deposit more costly, particularly in some areas where large sums are given away and in years when they may combine with other amounts handed out. If a parent were to gift their child the average deposit of £46,187, some £16,187 would be taxed at 10 per cent, yielding a total bill of £1,618.  In London however, some £76,000 of the average deposit would be liable to the tax, yielding a bill of £7,600. The tax would be calculated on what the gifter has already given away in a year,  not what the receiver has received.  This means that if the parent had already given away over £30,000 that year, then the whole amount could be taxed at 10 per cent.  Inheritance tax is imposed at 40 per cent on the estates of those who die, above the main threshold set at £325,000 for a single person. This doubles to up to £650,000 for married couples and civil partners, who pass on their wealth to the surviving spouse on death and have not used any of their allowance themselves. This is because spouses can transfer assets to each other without being liable for inheritance tax. Any unused allowance from the first spouse to die is then taken on by the surviving partner. An additional main residence nil rate band of up to £125,000 each is available for those passing their home to direct descendants.  Habito found that Londoners are almost a third more likely to receive their inheritance early in order to help them get on the property ladder than those in any other region in the UK. Some 80 per cent of Londoners are offered financial support from their families to help with a home deposit, 65 per cent of which accept, it claimed. Amazingly, over a third of first time buyers in the capital said their families helped them with 80-100 per cent of their deposit - with the average London deposit at £106,000, according to Halifax, that means hefty sums are changing hands At the other end of the spectrum, just 13 per cent of first-time buyers in Northern Ireland take inheritance early to fund a deposit, that compares to around a third in Scotland, the West Midlands and the North West.  Due to lower house prices in those areas, smaller sums chnage hands. Daniel Hegarty, Habito chief executive, said: 'While first-time buyers really drove the property market last year, it's clear that most have to rely on help from their families who are going to incredible lengths to help get their adult children get on the ladder.' Inheritance tax is Britain's most hated tax, despite the fact that just 5 to 10 per cent of estates pay it. The plan to simplify the hated 'death tax' follows calls by the Government's own tax gurus last year to overhaul long and complicated forms and scrap confusing rules on giveaways to loved ones in favour of a single 'personal gift allowance'.  The taxman raked in £5.4billion from bereaved families in the 2018-2019 tax year, up an annual 3 per cent as rising property prices meant more estates than ever became liable for a levy originally aimed at the very wealthy. Inheritance tax is set at 40 per cent but the 'effective rate' is lower due to use of allowances and exemptions.  This allows the super rich to pay proportionally less - 10 per cent on average for estates worth £10 million-plus - than the wealthy who pay 20 per cent on estates of £2million to 9million, according to figures compiled by the Office of Tax Simplification, an independent arm of the Treasury. 
