{ By James Mills for MailOnline   Published:  15:14, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8007443/Sinn-Fein-leader-Mary-Lou-McDonald-blasts-arrogant-political-rivals.html }
Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald today blasted 'arrogant' political rivals for denying her party a place in the next Irish Government. Fianna Fail leader Micheal Martin has ruled out entering a coalition with the left-leaning party because of historic links to the IRA. Ms McDonald told a party meeting in Belfast: 'The political establishment of Fianna Fail and Fine Gael are circling the wagons in defence of a status quo that will not deliver the change citizens voted for last weekend. 'Because they don't want change. That is why they said they wouldn't talk to us. 'And it now seems that Micheal Martin's plan is to deny the people what they voted for. 'That is an arrogant and untenable position, given the strength of Sinn Fein's mandate.' Mr Martin told a party meeting last week that they could not seek a deal with the left wing republicans because of the damage they would do to the country.  A source from the centre-right party told the Irish Independent there was 'pretty unanimous support' for Mr Martin's decision. Mr Martin made note of Waterford Sinn Fein TD David Cullinane's shout of 'up the Ra (IRA)' at a party bash after last weekend's election success.  'The mask slipped,' Mr Martin told his colleagues and revealed why Sinn Fein are not fit for office. Sinn Fein emerged as the party with the largest first preference vote in last week's Irish election.  But it did not field enough candidates to fully capitalise on a wave of support inspired by discontent over problems in the health service and access to housing. Sinn Fein topped the first preference poll following the General Election and secured a total of 37 seats - one fewer than Fianna Fail and two more than Taoiseach Leo Varadkar's Fine Gael. No single party has enough seats to govern and Sinn Fein appears to have failed to muster enough support from a coalition of small left-leaning parties and independent members of the new Irish Parliament, the Dail. Ms McDonald said the public had given her party a chance to show it can improve their lives. She said: 'A chance to show that will we honour our commitments. A chance to shape a government that will finally do right by ordinary people. 'They want a government for change.'   
