housing
{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  18:18, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8005047/Baseball-bat-thug-jailed-12-years.html }
A man who bludgeoned innocent victims with a baseball bat, told police 'I have every intention of killing anyone - man, woman or child' before launching an hour-long campaign of extreme violence. David Loch battered four unsuspecting strangers after officers released him following his arrest on suspicion of assaulting his partner's friend by smashing their head into a bath. He has now been jailed for 12 years after being branded 'dangerous' by a judge. The 28-year-old thug beat homeless man Brian Lindop 20 times around the head, torso and arms after screaming at him to 'get up' from the doorway of the former Primark store in Margate, Kent. Frenzied Loch then struck Germans Blimov five times over the head with the metal weapon, broke both his arms, and robbed him. The thug then punched, kicked and stamped on James Barton's face in a shelter. When Mr Barton fled to the High Street, Loch tracked him down, rained more blows and robbed him of £5. He then headbutted passerby Sohan Diner twice and, seemingly aided by a woman, demanded his belongings, but the victim escaped. Prosecutor Oliver Kirk told Canterbury Crown Court Loch's violence came shortly after he smashed his partner's friend's face into a bath. 'Loch took hold of Rosemary Jordan's hair and banged her face against the bath handrail,' he said. 'He attempted to do this a second time but Jordan was able to keep her face away from the rail. 'Loch then punched Jordan four or five times to the head.' Mr Kirk explained when Loch was arrested shortly after the attacks he threatened officers and spat on the floor and walls of his cell. 'In reply to the police caution he stated 'I have every intention of murdering someone as soon as I leave'. 'He then went on to say, 'I have every intention of killing anyone - man, woman or child.' Mitigating, Craig Evans explained his client has since been diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder and a suspected personality disorder. He said Loch, formerly of Clifton Street, Margate, entered early guilty pleas and 'has been responding well to treatment' since being kept on remand. Judge Simon James sentenced Loch, who has 20 convictions for 31 offences, to 12 years in prison. He will spend an extended four years on licence after Judge James deemed him 'dangerous' and branded the crimewave 'indiscriminate violence against five people'. Homeless Mr Lindop, whose arm was in a cast following a broken wrist at the time of the assault in the early hours of June 19, told the court: 'I struggle with mental health - I'm vulnerable and homeless. 'I worry that I'm going to be dead before anything gets done about my housing.' Appearing via video-link from HMP Elmley, Loch remained passive, but appeared to become fidgety throughout the court hearing. He was sentenced for wounding, attempting to cause grievous bodily harm, robbery, attempted robbery, possessing an offensive weapon, two counts of causing actual bodily harm and damaging property.   
