{ By Alisha Buaya For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:47, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8003511/Jess-Glasgow-job-Noosa-Council-shameful-behaviour-Bachelorette.html }
The mayor of Noosa, on the Queensland’s Sunshine Coast, called for Councillor Jess Glasgow to resign after he behaved inappropriately on The Bachelorette last year. But it seems the councilman, 37, is still working for the coastal town. According to the Noosa Council website, the local politician still works for the community, as his details are still available online. Jess' special areas of interest for Noosa include: traffic and transport, youth issues housing affordability and homelessness. His other areas of expertise also include: local laws and public safety, as well as sport and recreation. Daily Mail Australia has approached Jess Glasgow. In a statement to Daily Mail Australia, a Noosa Council spokesman said: 'The matter was referred to the Office of the Independent Assessor for further consideration.' 'Any queries should be referred to the OIA who are still considering the matter.' 'CEO Brett de Chastel said Cr Jess Glasgow remains a serving councillor at Noosa Council.' Back in October 2019, the mayor of Noosa, Tony Wellington, called for the councilman to resign immediately.  In a statement Mr Wellington said: 'With his appearance on the reality TV show The Bachelorette, Councillor Jess Glasgow has revealed behaviour that is totally inappropriate for a Noosa councillor, indeed for any individual.' 'The behaviour displayed was misogynistic, crude and highly offensive.' Mr Wellington went on to say that while he legally does not have the authority to remove a sitting councillor, Jess brought the council's name into 'disrepute' and 'undermined' its the good reputation. The nation was up in arms after Jess behaved inappropriately towards Bachelorette Angie Kent and several female crew members. Jess was caught on camera flirting with producers and making distasteful remarks to Angie during a group date. 'You made me feel uncomfortable. You took it too far. You're going to have to leave,' Angie later told him at the cocktail party before dismissing him from the show. Understandably, Bachelorette viewers lashed out on social media. 'Oh my God, Jess is absolutely revolting. I feel physically sick watching his antics as the horse. Appropriate conduct towards women @NoosaCouncil?' one viewer wrote. 'This is not putting Noosa in a good light, Jess,' another person tweeted. A similar comment read: 'Jess is everything we teach our sons not to be and that person we want to protect our daughters from.' While on the drive home, Jess said he was looking forward to 'going back to Noosa to find the love of my life in a dirty, dingy nightclub.' 
