{ By Andrew Court For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:00, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8000605/Two-people-charged-nearly-300-animals-inside-Kansas-City-duplex.html }
Two people have been charged after nearly 300 animals - including 217 rats - were discovered in 'deplorable conditions' inside a small duplex home in Missouri.  Mikabel Montero and Natasha Marie Acosta were each charged with three counts of animal cruelty on Monday after investigators in Kansas City made the shocking discovery following an anonymous tip-off. According to KMBC News, the rats were discovered alongside '16 rabbits, two geckos, two guinea pigs, six turtles, nine hamsters, three gerbils and three mice'.   The inside of the home was lined with kennels and cages. One cage reportedly contained 30 mice.   Given the small space of the duplex- around 1,000 square feet - ammonia inside the home was so thick that rescuers had to wear masks whilst retrieving the animals.   News crews -including FOX 4 - filmed fire fighters and volunteers removing dozens of cages from the property on Monday.   Montero spoke with KMBC at the time, and told them he started off with a small number of animals before they quickly began breeding.  He claims he did not get rid of the animals as he worried about what would happen to them.   'I care about them a lot. I'm just suppressing a lot of emotion right now,' he told the news network.  According to Montero, the city allowed him to keep 20 of the animals, but KMBC reports that he was caught trying to sneak more of the pets back into his home.  He said the animals had names, and were provided with food, water and care.  He later told FOX 4 : 'I have anxiety and stuff so I have the aimals for emotional support, and they really help me a lot. Whenever I`m feeling down and depressed, I play with them or just think about them."   Kansas City Pet Project took in the 268 animals and shared a Facebook post updating locals on the situation on Tuesday.  'Our team worked until midnight last night making sure all animals were cleaned, set up in appropriate housing, fed and watered, ' the post read.  'Our staff is back at it early this morning, providing care to our new arrivals and starting to move them into foster homes. A huge thanks to the staff and volunteers who already took pets home overnight into foster. We’re so fortunate to have amazing, caring people on our team that work so hard to help each and every pet that comes to our shelter.' It's unclear whether all of the animals will be adopted out.  Montero and Acosta will face court on May 12.  
