housing
{ By Jane Denton For Thisismoney   Published:  15:28, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/mortgageshome/article-7999639/Home-repossessions-jump-17-expert-claims-figure-rise-markets-improve.html }
The number of homes repossessed in the final quarter of last year grew by 17 per cent, new figures have revealed. While this may seem a hefty jump, UK Finance stressed this stemmed 'from a very low base', with 59 in every 100,000 homeowners with mortgages affected.  In the buy-to-let sector, repossessions rose by 20 per cent year-on-year in the last quarter. The lenders' trade association said the rising number of repossessions was linked to a clearance of a backlog of historic cases.   Jeremy Leaf, an estate agent in north London and former chairman of the RICS, said he expects to see the number of residential repossessions rise if market conditions continue to improve.  Delving deeper into the figures, 1,330 homeowner mortgaged properties were taken into possession in the fourth quarter of last year.  Around 660 buy-to-let mortgaged homes were repossessed in the fourth quarter of 2019, marking a 20 per cent rise from the same point a year earlier.  This means roughly 137 in every 100,000 buy-to-let homes weighed down by a mortgage ended up being repossessed over the period.   While the number of repossessions may have increased, the number of residential homes being repossessed across the country remains below 'well below' those seen between 2009 and 2014. UK Finance added: 'Lenders continue to show flexibility to borrowers in financial difficulty and possession is always a last resort.'  The findings suggest that the 'vast majority' of borrowers continue to repay their mortgages on time and in full each month.  Jeremy Leaf, an estate agent in north London and former chairman of the RICS, said he expects to see the number of residential repossessions rise if market conditions continue to improve. He said: 'These figures are interesting but not particularly surprising in view of subdued market conditions for most of last year and well before that.  'However, as the market slowly recovers it would not be surprising to see lenders taking a more proactive stance when it comes to repossessions as they will see, like the rest of us, that not only can the property in question be sold but possibly at a better price than they would have anticipated previously.'   There were 70,880 homeowner mortgages, representing less than 1 per cent of all residential mortgages outstanding, in arrears of 2.5 per cent or more in the final few months of last year, which is 9 per cent less than in the same quarter the year before.  Within the 70,880 in arrears by more than 2.5 per cent of their outstanding mortgage balance, 21,770 were in arrears by over 10 per cent or more, which was 9 per cent less than at the same point a year earlier.   Any rise in interest rates by the Bank of England could hit borrowers already struggling to keep up with their mortgage repayments.      Mark Harris, chief executive of mortgage broker SPF Private Clients, said: ’Thankfully, lenders continue to show forbearance and flexibility towards many borrowers who are struggling with their mortgages. But it is important for anyone finding themselves in this position to keep their lender in the loop and seek independent financial advice as early as possible. ’Mortgage prisoners - borrowers stuck on expensive deals because their financial circumstances have changed so they cannot remortgage to a cheaper product - are among those most likely to find themselves in financial difficulty. It is vital that lenders and the regulator work together to find a workable solution for these borrowers.’ Two years ago the city regulator changed the rules on how lenders have to calculate how much a borrower owes the lender each month if they fall into arrears. UK Finance says this has led to lenders reviewing a large number of cases on an individual basis and applying for repossession 'only when all other options have been exhausted'.   Earlier today, former housing minister was ousted from her job as Housing Minister after less than seven months in the role. McVey was the ninth person to hold the job since 2010 and no one in the time has remained in place for more than two years.         
