{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  11:29, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7995209/Census-documented-UKs-way-life-decade-200-YEARS-scrapped.html }
The national census that has been carried out every decade for almost 200 years could be scrapped after 2021 amid soaring costs, the UK's national statistician revealed today. Professor Sir Ian Diamond, the head of the UK Statistics Authority, said he wants to explore whether he could collect the data recorded in the census from a range of other sources. The next census of UK households is due to take place next year, providing valuable population information to help councils and governments plan services. The cost of next year's census will be close to £1 billion - almost double the price tag for the one in 2011 - even though most people will be expected to fill in their forms online, Sir Ian told the Guardian. He told the paper he wants to explore whether he could collect the data recorded in the census from a range of other sources. These could include GP registrations, council tax records and driving licences, which could also be supplemented by information gathered by surveys. Sir Ian, who took up his role in October last year, said: 'I will only make a recommendation to change the way we do things if we can replicate the richness of the census data. 'It would have to be equally rich but more timely, cheaper and more effective. 'We will only change if we can do something better. 'We are looking at the things we only get from the census and whether it is possible to get them from other sources.' A census has been carried out every decade since 1801 but it was not until 1841 that it included details of all people living in a household, including their ages, relationships and occupations.    It provides valuable population information to help councils and governments plan services.  Demographers consider the census to be the 'gold standard' of population records, since it provides a once-a-decade snapshot of age, class, gender, housing tenure and educational attainment. Sir Ian said he would look at the evidence and give an opinion by 2023, but it would be for the Government to decide whether the 2031 census should go ahead. 
