housing
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  09:09, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7994649/Scott-Morrison-lashed-indigenous-MPs-Aboriginal-wellbeing-Closing-Gap-report.html }
The latest report card on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander wellbeing has been lashed by indigenous MPs as 'dismal' after it revealed poor results in health and jobs. Prime Minister Scott Morrison will on Wednesday release the latest Closing the Gap report, declaring things are 'better than they were ... but we have not made as much progress as we should have by now'. 'There remains much more to do and we will do it differently by working together,' he is expected to say. 'By going from good intentions and sky-high aspirations, to local, practical action that's driven by local leaders and local needs with clear accountability and responsibility and a clear line of sight to the community.' The report reveals indigenous health and employment continues to be a concern. In 2018, the indigenous child mortality rate was 141 per 100,000 - twice the rate for non-indigenous children. which is 67 per 100,000. Life expectancy is 71.6 years for indigenous males (8.6 years less than non-indigenous males) and 75.6 years for indigenous females (7.8 years less than non-indigenous females). In 2018, the indigenous employment rate was 49 per cent compared to 75 per cent for non-indigenous Australians. The annual report was initiated by former prime minister Kevin Rudd following the formal apology to the stolen generations. Mr Morrison believes the reporting method has many shortcomings, masked 'real progress' and failed to build lasting partnerships with indigenous communities. 'The targets don't celebrate the strengths, achievements and aspirations of indigenous people,' he will say. But indigenous NT senator Malarndirri McCarthy said that was passing the buck, and the lack of progress was a direct result of poor government policy. 'When we look at policies like the cashless debit card, which entrenches First Nations people in poverty, of course we're not going to see the outcomes that we want to see in health, in education, in housing, in life expectancy,' she told AAP. 'You need to do more than say that it's someone else's problem, prime minister.' Linda Burney, another indigenous MP, said the situation was dismal. 'The people who suffer are not statistics, they are real people,' she said. 'I think most people would find it completely unacceptable if the infant mortality rate for Aboriginal children was the infant mortality rate across the board.' Only two of the targets are rated as 'on track'. The goal of 95 per cent of all indigenous four-year-olds being enrolled in early childhood education by 2025 is close to being reached with a 86.4 per cent enrolment rate in 2018, compared with 91.3 per cent of non-indigenous children. As well, halving the gap in terms of Year 12 attainment is on track. In 2018/19, 66 per cent of indigenous Australians aged 20-24 years had attained Year 12 or equivalent. Over the decade the proportion of indigenous Australians aged 20-24 years attaining Year 12 or equivalent increased by 21 percentage points. 
