{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  16:23, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7988759/Woman-62-lost-job-cleaner-forced-live-317-month-Universal-Credit.html }
A woman has lashed out at the benefits system for putting 'pressure' on people to find jobs to get them off Universal Credit, after being left £140 a week out of pocket.  Sue, 62, from Liverpool, appears on three-part BBC2 series 'Universal Credit: Inside The Welfare State', airing tonight, where she revealed how she's been left struggling after being made redundant from her cleaning job at a nursery school. She went on to Universal Credit while looking for work and had £317.82 to live on per month, after her rent was paid.  Feeling 'pressured' to take the first job she was offered, she soon began working ten-hours per week as a pub cleaner for minimum wage, and on realising it would be hard to find a full-time position she took on a second cleaning job.  However, despite being left with £140 less a week than she made from her full-time job, Sue was no longer eligible to receive benefits, because she was over the income threshold.  Reflecting on her search for employment, Sue said: 'Universal Credit they're all about getting you back to work. I felt pressured because you have to commit to looking for work.  'Because I came out of a full-time job, I was told I needed to find a job for 35 hours and I felt that pressure because I knew it would be difficult to find that in one job'. Sue is seen in the show having a conversation with her job coach, voicing her anxiety about managing to find full-time employment, stressing it was likely she would have to get 'two or three jobs' now.  'Four months ago I got made redundant', Sue tells the staff member, 'I've been doing a couple courses. I've been enjoying them, but they're not paying me any money.   'You hear horror stories. Do I have to do full-time because I've come from a full-time job? I don't think I could do it. It's two or three jobs now.'  Sue told how since losing her job, she's had to start drastically budgeting, and has had to sacrifice luxuries.  She said: 'I have had to cut down on a couple of things, I rarely go out.  'Because i'm not working now, it's difficult with the money. You want your hair cut but you can't afford to get it done.  'With Universal Credit you do have to budget and I do tend to shop around for bargains. I know for a fact that I won't starve - I've said that all along'.   Universal Credit (UC) replaces six existing benefits – Income Support, Income-based Jobseeker's Allowance, Income-related Employment and Support Allowance, Housing Benefit, Working Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit – with a single payment. When was it introduced? It has been rolled out gradually across the country after starting in pilot areas in 2013. New benefit claimants have been put onto the system, but from July 2019, around 2million people receiving the old benefits will be moved onto UC, which is due for completion in 2023. Who will be affected? Among those being moved to UC will be about 1 million working families and 745,000 people unable to work because of long-term illness or disability. Will there be a wait for payments? UC is paid in arrears, and the first payment is not made until at least five weeks after a claim is lodged. Claimants can apply for advance payments to avoid hardship while they wait. Why was it introduced? Former Work and Pensions Secretary Esther McVey said that when UC is fully rolled out, it will deliver £8 billion of benefits to the UK economy per year.   Sue, who had been made unemployed once before and claimed working tax credits, reflected on the benefits system before the roll out of Universal Credit - insisting it was 'so, so different'.  She said: 'I've been unemployed in the past and it was so so different, I couldn't tell you. In those days it was income support.  'You got what we would call the Monday book, you'd sign it and get your money each week.  'But now it's all been made into one, you just don't know where your're at. It's so hard, you don't know what you have to do.  'It's all this constant pressure, you've got to do this, you've got to do that to show you're trying to find work.'  Universal Credit: Inside The Welfare State airs tonight at 9pm on BBC2  
