{ By Terri-ann Williams For Mailonline   Published:  15:01, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7991213/Britains-biggest-house-sales-2019-revealed-25-5m-Belgravia-11-bedroom-mansion-tops-list.html }
A list of some of Britain's most expensive home sales of 2019 has showcased the eye watering price tags buyers can expect to pay for luxury abodes in the country's most desired regions.    Data compiled by regulated property buyer Good Move revealed the various high-value properties, sold between February and October last year, that offered estate agents across the UK a much needed boost in a slow moving market.   A £25.5 million Belgravia property tops the list at a whopping £25.5 million, followed closely by properties in Birmingham and Bristol.  Locations such as Liverpool, Sheffield and Newcastle also saw properties sell for well into the millions. The 11-bedroom London mansion is traditionally British and is just a stone's throw away from Hyde Park, one of the capital's biggest green spaces.   It comes just days after a mega-mansion in London on 'billionaire's row' hit the market for £75 million, making it the most expensive listed property in 2020 so far.  A £200 million property in Knightsbridge is also said to be being sold later this month, making it the UK's most expensive house sale.  1. 11 bedroom property in Belgravia, London - £25.5 million  It's no surprise that the capital was home to the most expensive house sold in the last year. Excluding the recent Knightsbridge sale, this sprawling Belgravia mansion is just a stone’s throw from Hyde Park and was among London’s priciest houses.  It sold for a cool £25.5 million, the property boasts 11 bedrooms, two roof terraces and lift access to all floors. As well as this it has direct views to award winning gardens which are cared for by local residents in the upmarket area. The property was sold in August 2019 and is perfect for those who want to be in the centre of the hustle and bustle, as it is just a short walk from Sloane Square and Brompton Road.  2. Eight bedroom property in Edgbaston, Birmingham – £4.73 million This gorgeous property is perfect for people working in Birmingham's busy city centre and it's easy to see why it fetched over £4 million. The property sold in February 2019 and features eight bedrooms, a huge garden and an indoor swimming pool. It is also extremely close to Birmingham's Botanical Gardens, for those who get sick of city life and want to experience botanical bliss. The closest stations to the property include Five Ways, which is under a mile away, the University station, which is 1.2 miles away, and Birmingham New Street, which is 1.2 miles away.   3. Seven bedroom property in Whitchurch, Bristol – £3.6 million  This property was sold in May 2019 and features a seven bedroom main house and a separate coach house with two further bedrooms. As well as this it also has several other stables and outbuildings spread over seven acres of land, perfect for those who love the great outdoors. It is situated on a quiet street and images from Google street view show that the property also has plenty of parking space for the owners. Properties in the area usually sell from anything from £150,000 to £500,000, making this property in Whitchurch the priciest in the area. 4. Five bedroom property in Ringinglow, Sheffield – £3.05 million  This stunning property was Sheffield's most expensive sale of the year and the photo of the property shows just what the new owner will be getting, with vast green space and plenty of areas to relax and embrace nature. The five bedroom farmhouse comes with its own dedicated bar and games room, a tennis court, an indoor swimming pool and 48 acres of grounds. For those who love the traditional country lifestyle the property also boasts excellent equestrian facilities for those looking to practice their riding skills.  It also has extensive garaging facilities, perfect for all vehicles, whether you want to bundle the dogs into the back of a Land Rover or if you want to zoom down the country lanes in your Porsche. 5. Five bedroom property in Gosforth, Newcastle – £2.76 million  This spacious property in Newcastle was sold in February 2019 and the lucky new owner will be able to enjoy its fantastic garden. The detached luxury family home is in the heart of Gosforth and also features an all weather tennis court, as well as perfectly manicured gardens.   It also has a fabulous extension which could be used as an entertainment area or even as a separate housing area where friends and family could stay. Nearest Metro stations to the property include Ilford Road and South Gosforth, the property is situated between the two stations.  6. Seven bedroom property in Chilworth, Southampton – £2.2 million This amazing property in Southampton was sold back in March and by now the new owners would have had plenty of time to settle in and to get used to the huge amounts of green space they have. The property is extremely close to Southampton General Hospital and would be perfect for people working in close distance to that. As well as this it has great local connections and the closest station to the property is Swaythling, which is just 1.7 miles away. Those looking to jet off on holiday, or who travel frequently for business will also be pleased as Southampton Airport Parkway is also just 1.9 miles away.     7. Five bedroom property in Woolton, Liverpool – £2.07 million Perfect for a growing family, this property in Liverpool was sold back in May 2019 and is extremely luxurious both inside and out. It has five reception areas as well as five bedrooms and three bathrooms.  The outside of the property is just as fantastic and boasts 0.5 acres of Mediterranean garden, as well as a secured driveway. Back inside the property and the homeowners will be able to enjoy pool and gym to keep them fit as well as a steam room and spa for relaxation. 8. Seven bedroom property in Bothwell, Glasgow – £1.85 million The new owners of this property in Glasgow will feel as though they have just stepped out of a Jane Austen novel each time they leave their home. Sold in March 2019 the property boasts amazing features such as four reception rooms and seven bedrooms, just enough for guests and family members to stay over. It also has seven bathrooms, making sure you never have to wait in line for the toilet, or to get ready for work in the morning. But if you don't want your friends and family members in the main house then the property also has alternative accommodation that you can offer them.  9. Six bedroom property in Worsley, Manchester – £1.4 million This property was sold in September 2019 and has large gates at the front, perfect for those who have security concerns. As well as this the property also features six bedrooms and is in one of Manchester's most sought after locations.  It is also perfect for those who want to commute into the city and the nearest stations are Moorside, which is just one mile away and Swinton, which is 1.2 miles away.   For those who like to play golf in their spare time, this property is perfect as it is also close to Worsley Golf Club.  10. Four bedroom property in Ruddington, Nottingham – £1.2 million For those who are looking to escape the hustle and bustle of city life, or if you're fed up of living in a busy town then this property is for you. Key features of the stunning four bedroom property include a detached bungalow, making it perfect to invite guests over to stay for the weekend. It also has stunning grounds which are in the region of 2.09 acres, making it even easier for you to experience the great outdoors and take up gardening as a hobby. As well as this it has car parking for a number of vehicles and also has great development potential due to its fantastic location.  11. Five bedroom property in Weetwood, Leeds – £990k Out of the millions range now with this stunning property in Leeds which was sold for £990k in June 2019. The stunning detached property has five bedrooms, but those moving to the property may also need to invest in a car as public transport links are few and far between. The closest stations are all served by Northern and include Burley Park, Headingley and Kirkstall Forge. Land registry details state the property had previously been sold for £330,000 back in September 1999.  12. Five bedroom property in Bradford – £950k High Bentley Manor in West Yorkshire is a stunning property complete with five bedrooms, which was sold in September 2019. Land registry details for the property currently state that it was last sold back in January 2000 for the bargain price of just £445,000. The property isn't very far from the A6, making commuting easy and local stations aren't too far away with the nearest being just two miles, Low Moor station. The property is in a stunning area which is full of natural beauty.  13. Eight bedroom property in Bilbrook, Wolverhampton – £940k This gorgeous farm house in Wolverhampton was sold in August 2018 and the new owner will be able to get to work on making the eight bedroom property fit to their taste. Features inside the amazing house include a playroom for the youngsters, as well as a cellar, perfect for storing vintage bottles of wine.  For those who enjoy their sports there is also a boot room as well as a laundry room to wash the dirty kit afterwards. The nearest stations include Bilbrook which is 1.1 miles away, while Codsall is 1.7 miles away and Wolverhampton is just 2.7 miles away.   14. Five bedroom property in Southsea, Portsmouth – £930k This gorgeous family home in Portsmouth was first listed on Rightmove in July 2019 and was snapped up just one month later.  The five bedroom property would be perfect for those who like the idea of seaside living as it is extremely close to the coast. Closest stations to the property include Bilbrook which is just 1.1 miles away, as well as Codsall, which is 1.7 miles away.    The property includes an office space, a wine room and a games room for those who want to relax and unwind.  
