{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  14:58, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-7987217/Lax-development-rules-allowing-offices-converted-sub-standard-homes.html }
Rules allowing the conversion of offices and retail buildings into flats have led to thousands of 'sub-standard' homes across the UK, according to experts. Government research shows that over 20,000 permitted developments - conversion projects designed to create more homes - have been waved through each year without scrutiny. Architecture firm Resi said 'too many sub-standard developments are being nodded through and not properly scrutinised' as a result of the rules, aimed to create more housing. Over a five-year period to September 2019, 115,448 permitted developments were waved through without need for approval, according to Government data. This included more than 4,000 office to residential conversions as well as 475 retail to residential conversions. The conversions have come amid a challenging period for office and retail landlords, who have sought for new opportunities to improve value. In 2018, the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors warned that office-to-residential schemes completed through the permitted development rules were resulting in higher numbers of poor-quality flats than those given full planning permission. Permitted development rules were introduced in 2013 by the government as a means to boost housing supply in the UK.  It enabled developers to convert offices, shops or other commercial buildings into housing without requiring a planning application. Homeowners could also make certain types of extension without permission needed. Permitted development schemes are not subject to the same space standards, leading to the creation of 'rabbit-hutch' homes that can be as small as 13 square metres in size.  The government's 'nationally described space standards recommends that a single-bed home for one person should be no smaller than 37 square metres in size, and at least 50 square metres if there are two people.   Resi also warned of the potential harmful impact of the permitted development schemes on UK high streets and town centres. Alex Depledge, founder and chief executive officer of Resi, said: 'We are also seeing some of our town centres being hollowed out as commercial property is turned into housing. 'This means that families are too often housed in accommodation that simply isn't suitable. 'These developments fundamentally change our communities and need to be looked at more closely.' In its latest report, the firm has called for a UK-wide housing performance measure, which it believes could improve wellbeing and happiness among residents. At an average 67.8 square meters of living space, new-build homes in the UK are the smallest in Europe and are even smaller than the average house built in the 1930s. A new home in the 1970s by comparison had 83.3 square metres of space.  Last week's BBC Panorama programme detailed extensive problems regarding the conversion of old office blocks into temporary accommodation. The documentary focused on the town of Harlow, Essex, home to the highest proportion of office block to housing conversions in England. Crime, drug addiction, alcoholism and poor transport links have been common complaints among residents of these developments in the town.  One development, Templefields House has seen police called to the building on almost 600 occasions since it was opened three years ago. A resident interviewed by the programme described his living conditions as 'human warehousing' and said his wife, who has a terminal illness, had been verbally and physically threatened by a man in the building. Property company Caridon, which manage Templefields, has received a considerable sum of public money from local authorities in recent years for temporarily housing residents in its Harlow properties. An investigation by The Times newspaper last year found that Caridon had made at least nine office-to-residential conversions in recent years, none of which adhered to the government's minimum space recommendations. In a statement on its website, the firm says it 'does not tolerate criminal and antisocial behaviour of any kind at any of its buildings. We act robustly and swiftly when made aware of such issues.    
