housing
{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  14:59, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7987187/Manchester-bomber-brother-bought-equipment-benefits-cash-paid-mother-court-hears.html }
The Manchester Arena killer and his brother bought bomb equipment with their mother's benefits money - which was paid even after she had left the country to live in Libya, a court heard today.  Hashem Abedi, 22, allegedly encouraged older brother Salman to kill 22 and maim hundreds more when he detonated his rucksack bomb at the Ariana Grande concert on 22 May 2017. But Hashem insists if he knew of the murderous plan he would have told his mother about it. Their mother Samia Tabbal was in receipt of housing benefit for her husband Ramadan and their six children from 2008 to 2011, the court heard today.  In August 2013 the claim was resumed for her and the youngest five children.  Samia travelled from Manchester to Istanbul via Athens with three of her children on October 20 2016, and from there on to Libya. The benefits then continued solely for the mother until 26 May 2017, four days after the bombing, the court heard.   In the run up to the attack her bank account was accessed to buy a large £300 industrial sized battery and to buy other alleged bomb making equipment from B&Q, jurors have been told.  The jury was shown Samia Abedi’s bank statements detailing monthly income payments of £692.32 housing benefit from Manchester City Council along with weekly payments of £302.76 working and child tax credit and £61.80 child benefit, giving a monthly income of £2,147.  Hashem Abedi was arrested in Libya shortly after Salman, 22, blew himself up as thousands of people left the concert.  He faces 22 charges of murder, one of attempted murder against the 260 others injured in the outrage and conspiracy to cause explosions. Hashem denies involvement in helping prepare and plan the attack.   The court was also told today that Salman Abedi visited a convicted terrorist in prison before carrying out the suicide attack. Salman met Abdalraouf Abdallah, 26, four months before he detonated a homemade bomb, killing 22 people and injuring many more as they left an Ariana Grande concert, jurors heard.  On January 18 2017, Salman, 22, along with two other men, travelled from his home in Fallowfield, south Manchester, to visit Abdallah, who was serving nine and a half years for terrorism offences at HMP Altcourse in Liverpool. A second visit was scheduled for March 6, but Salman Abedi did not attend, the court heard. The jury was told Abdallah, from Manchester, left the UK to fight against the Gaddafi regime in 2011. He was shot in the back, became paraplegic, and remains in a wheelchair, the Old Bailey was told. On May 11 2016, Abdallah was convicted of preparation of terrorist acts by assisting others and funding terrorism by sending £2,000 to his brother. The court was told he organised the terrorist activities of a group in Manchester, assisting two men in their attempts to enter Syria via Turkey. It was planned they would join his brother Mohammed Abdallah and engage in fighting, according to the agreed facts read out in court. Jurors heard one of the men succeeded in entering Syria and became an Islamic State fighter. Abdallah was handed an extended sentence of nine and a half years, including five and a half years in jail. Salman and Hashem Abedi's uncle Adel Forjani, 49, said the siblings began wearing Islamic clothing which they had not worn previously and began to act differently over time, telling the court: 'There were changes in their style of behaviour it felt they were more radical. 'I do not know but we are all from the same culture so you can see and hear when someone is changing - the way they were dressing. 'Most of the time they started wearing Islamic clothing like these long dresses. Both of them.'  Jurors heard Mr Forjani's children attended the same primary schools as youngsters from the Abedi family but did not go to the same secondary establishments. But the brothers stopped attending school and started to take drugs, jurors were told. They associated with Abdallah, a convicted terrorist at a barber shop owned by Mr Forjani but staffed by his children, the court heard. 'My son told me that this man had an Islamic way of thinking and I told him I did not want him mingling with him,' Mr Forjani said with the aid of an Arabic interpreter. 'I used to go there every day just to check. I would not stay there for the full day. I would just stay there for a few minutes.' He admitted he could not be sure if Hashem Abedi met with Abdallah. Stephen Kamlish QC, representing Abedi, suggested Mr Forjani had been describing Salman when he told police the brothers had changed their style of dress. Mr Forjani married the sister of Abedi's mother and came to Britain in 1994 from Libya with two children. Duncan Penny, QC, prosecuting, asked the witness: 'On the occasions when Salman was expressing radical views was Hashem there, in the room?' 'They never expressed anything personal to me, but I understood it was an overview from all of us about their change in attitude,' replied Mr Forjani. Jurors were told Salman stopped going to a mosque in Rusholme and went to one in Whalley. Mr Forjani said he attended the prayer centre in Rusholme where extremism was not tolerated. School records show Salman Abedi got an A* in Arabic but failed in English with a D grade and scored an E in religious studies exams and a F in physical education. The brothers attended Burnage High School but were two years apart. 'Samia Tabbal was a tenant at Elsmore Road, from 2008 until 2011, and in receipt of housing benefit there in respect of herself, Ramadan Abedi, and their six children,' said Jocelyn Ledward, prosecuting. 'In 2011 her claim for housing benefit was withdrawn. Manchester City Council were informed that the family were going abroad. 'Samia Tabbal resumed claiming housing benefit in respect of herself and her five youngest children on 23 August 2013. 'From 25 September 2013, the family lived as tenants at Claremont Road, Manchester. 'From 1 November 2013, the family lived as tenants at Elsmore Road. 'Housing benefit continued to be paid in respect of Samia Tabbal's tenancy at that address until 26 May 2017.' Saffie Rose Roussos, eight, was the youngest victim to die in the attack. The others were: Martyn Hett, 29, Georgina Callander, 18, Olivia Campbell, 15; Off-duty police officer Elaine McIver, 43, John Atkinson, 26, Kelly Brewster, 32, Alison Lowe, 44, and friend Lisa Lees, 43. Marcin Kils, 42, and Angelika Kils, 39, Nell Jones, 14, Jane Tweedle-Taylor, 50, Michelle Kiss, 45, Sorrell Leczkowski, 14, Chloe Rutherford, 17, and Liam Curry, 19, Eilidh MacLeod, 14, Wendy Fawell, 50, Courtney Boyle, 19, and her stepdad Philip Tron, 32, and Megan Hurley, 15, was the final victim to be named. Abedi, formerly of Manchester, denies 22 charges of murder, one of attempted murder in relation to those injured and one of conspiracy to cause explosions. The trial continues. 
