housing
{ By Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  14:43, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7987339/Rise-mid-life-renters-sparks-pensioner-housing-warning.html }
Almost one third of people aged 35 to 44 in England rent their home from a private landlord - a massive increase on the fewer than one in 10 recorded twenty years ago.  The latest data released by the Office for National Statistics revealed that 28 per cent of people in that age group were renting in 2017, compared to just nine per cent in 1997.  The statistics have sparked warnings from experts that the UK is 'sleepwalking' towards a future housing crisis when non-home-owning pensioners could struggle to pay their rent.  The experience of so-called mid-life renters is in stark contrast to that of the over-65s who are now much more likely to own their own home outright than their counterparts more than two decades ago.  Just under three quarters of people aged 65 and over owned their homes outright in England in 2017 with just four per cent of homeowners in this age group still having  mortgage payments to make.  The 74 per cent ownership figure represents a significant increase on the 56 per cent recorded in 1993 in this age group who were mortgage-free homeowners, while six per cent owned with a mortgage.  The ONS said this group includes the first people to benefit from the Right to Buy initiative, which saw social housing stock sold at reduced prices from the 1980s, and boosted home ownership. The scheme was open to a large proportion of the population. In 1979, a third of homes across Britain were social housing. This compares with a quarter in 1990 and 18 per cent in 2017 - the lowest since records started, the ONS said. The statistics authority warned that declines in home ownership rates at younger ages could have an impact on the type of accommodation older people occupy in the future.  It said there could be some benefits to a scenario where more older people lived in private rented accommodation, namely that it would likely be easier to move into alternative housing if their needs changed rather than having to rely on the sale of a home.  However, it would also mean people having to save up much bigger pension pots than if they were a homeowner because they could not cash in on a property to fund their retirement.  Meanwhile, rental prices may become unaffordable for many people in retirement.  The ONS said in a report: 'A market rent that is affordable to someone of working age may cease to be affordable after retirement, when income decreases. 'Research suggests that someone who owns outright could expect to maintain their living standards on a pension pot of £260,000, while someone who rents privately would need almost double this (£445,000).' Holly Holder, senior evidence manager at the Centre for Ageing Better said: 'We risk sleepwalking into a situation where once people have retired and have less income, they struggle to afford their rent.'  Nathan Long, a senior analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: 'Problems are being stored up for those in their 40s and early 50s. 'Not only were they born too late to benefit from final salary pensions, they were born too early to benefit from a lifetime of automatic pension saving and many won't be able to call on their house if times get tough. 'Relying on the trickle down of wealth from older generations doesn't look like a good strategy to fund retirement, so taking control of your retirement by boosting contributions now is sensible.' Lindsay Judge, principal policy and research analyst at the Resolution Foundation think-tank said: 'The prospect of renting privately in retirement will alarm many people as it could mean high costs and low levels of housing security. 'It also carries huge cost implications for the state as the UK's housing benefit bill could escalate.'  
