housing
{ By Daily Mail Reporter   Published:  00:06, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7985209/Lollipop-men-women-slumped-2-000-ten-years.html }
They were a constant of many a childhood, shepherding schoolchildren across busy roads at the beginning and end of a school day while dressed in their iconic bright yellow uniforms. But Britain's beloved lollipop men and women could soon be a thing of the past, with their numbers plummeting in the past decade.  There are now 2,000 less lollipop men and woman than 10 years ago, according to the GMB union, and there are fears that the job cuts might also affect the safety of children.    Using the Freedom of Information Act, the union found that councils in Britain employed 5,047 crossing patrol officers in 2017/18, down from 7,128 in 2009/10.  The West Midlands and the North West were the worst-hit regions, with drops of 386 and 378 respectively. London and the South East, meanwhile, have lost almost half their wardens.  Theses alarming figures mean that the beloved public servants - a staple of the school run - could soon die out, having first been introduced 1937.  GMB national officer Rehana Azam said: 'No parent wants to get the call that their child has been involved in an accident, but that's the risk councils are taking because they are so cash-strapped.'  'Austerity is a choice but councils have been left with no choice but to make savings. 'Our public services need proper funding, so they can rebuild from the ruins left by a decade of savage cuts.'  The Government has denied the claims, saying councils, who are responsible for recruiting road safety wardens, can expect to benefit from the largest funding pledge in a decade, with billions more available.   Overall, England, Scotland and Wales have lost 29 per cent of their lollipop men and women since 2009-10, according to the GMB figures. London and the South East suffered a 43 per cent and 44 per cent drop, respectively. Wales and the east and west Midlands all lost around a third of their lollipop wardens.  The North East saw the least dramatic percentage fall, losing 13 per cent.   The Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Governments has stated that councils are well-positioned to make decisions on the numbers of wardens, and these authorities will soon receive a funding boost.  A spokesman said: 'Next year, councils in England will have access to £49.2 billion – the biggest annual realterms increase in spending power in a decade.  'Councils, not central government, are best placed to know what their communities need and are responsible for delivering services for residents.  
