housing
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money  and Pa   Published:  11:58, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8037303/Countrywide-LSL-Property-Services-merger-talks.html }
Struggling estate agency group Countrywide has announced it is in talks over a possible merger with LSL Property Services. A merger between the two businesses would create the UK's biggest estate agency, with a combined value of around £470million, though it could potentially result in significant job losses as a result of cost-cutting.  The announcement comes after a testing few years for Countrywide, which has seen its share price slump on the back of mounting losses. Competition from online estate agents and Brexit uncertainty has caused the company's share price to fall from around 600p per share five years ago to around 320p today, including a 38 per cent fall in the last year. Sky News certified that the two companies were in talks over the deal, which both subsequently confirmed in a joint statement. 'In view of the recent press speculation regarding Countrywide and the announcement by Countrywide, the board of LSL Property Services confirms that it is in discussions with Countrywide regarding a possible all-share combination' they said. 'LSL reserves the right to introduce other forms of consideration and/or vary the mix or composition of consideration of any offer.' The deal would bring some of Britain's most well-known property brands under one roof, including Marsh & Parsons, Your Move, which is part of LSL, and John D Wood, and Hamptons International, which belong to Countrywide.  Both parties have until March 23 to confirm whether there is a firm intention to make an offer, or whether they will walk away from discussions.  Countrywide has a market capitalisation of £110million while LSL is worth over three times as much, at around £352million. It does have 10,000 employees though compared to 4,000 at LSL.  Debts at the London-based group have intensified in the last few years. They were forced to seek a £140million emergency fundraising from investors in 2018, which caused their share price to tumble by over 60 per cent. It eventually plummeted into the single figures, where it spent most of 2019, before undergoing a major recovery towards the end of last year,   Their capital was uplifted by the selling of its commercial property business Lambert Smith Hampton division for £38million to John Bengt Moeller, the owner of Great Global holdings.  Its financial performance may improve in the coming months though, as the housing market beings to show strong signs of warmth.  Home sales hit their highest level in two and a half years in January.  About 102,810 housing transactions were recorded last month, which was 5,120 higher compared to the previous January.  Shares in Countrywide were down 4.4 per cent this morning at 325.4p.     
