{ By Bryony Jewell For Mailonline   Published:  17:33, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7979193/Man-accused-kidnapping-toddler-son-1987-extradited-Canada.html }
A man accused of kidnapping his toddler son and living under a false identity in the US for three decades has appeared in court. Allan Mann Jr, 67, was extradited from New York City to Toronto on Wednesday, after an 18-month sentence for illegally obtaining benefits while eluding authorities. Officials claim that Mann abducted his then toddler son Jermaine during a court-ordered visitation in 1987 and bought him to America. Toronto police had secured an arrest warrant for Mann, and he was charged with abduction after arriving in Canada.   Mann was in court Thursday for a bail hearing, but it was postponed until Monday, a court official said. It was not clear whether Mann has an attorney in Toronto who could comment on the abduction case. His attorney in the U.S. declined to comment. Toronto police say Mann kidnapped Jermaine in 1987 and fled to the U.S. where he obtained fake identities for him and his son. Mann's American lawyer David Ring said his client ran 30 years ago because he was worried about his son's safety during a custody dispute with his wife. It is thought that Jermaine's mother, Lyneth Mann-Lewis, had planned on taking her and Mann's child to Jamaica, reports CBC.  Mann was caught in Vernon, Connecticut, in October 2018, two years after Toronto police and U.S. marshals launched a new effort to find him.  Speaking at the time Toronto police Det. Sgt. Wayne Banks said: 'They lived, basically, a life of lies as to who they were and what they did, unbeknownst to Jermaine. He was under the impression that his mother had died shortly after birth.'  Mann's relatives provided key information and officials said he had been living under the alias Hailee DeSouza. He pleaded guilty in August to illegally obtaining U.S. government housing benefits during his time eluding authorities. Officials say he also illegally received government medical services. Mann's son, now in his 30s, grew up believing his mother had died shortly after his birth. Mother and son were reunited shortly after Mann's arrest. Speaking after they met, Ms Mann-Lewis said: 'I am the proof that after 31 long years of suffering, one should never give up. 'Be patient, be strong, and believe that all things are possible and that anything can transpire.' 
