housing
{ By Zoe Zaczek and Joshua Fox For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  15:11, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7977419/Married-Sight-Poppys-dad-watches-prison.html }
The father of Married at First Sight bride Poppy watches the reality TV show from his prison cell after he was jailed for selling heroin and meth, it can be revealed.  Mother-of-two Poppy Jennings married FIFO worker Luke Eglin in the season premiere on Monday night. Within minutes of the ceremony, the Wollongong-based photographer, 38, said she regretted signing up for the show and desperately missed her two-year-old twin sons.   After the shaky start, the couple appeared to improve their connection during their honeymoon to the Hunter Valley, north of Sydney. It can now be revealed Ms Jennings' father Elefterios 'Terry' Skoumbourdis has been tuning into the show from his prison cell, after being locked up for drug dealing.  A source said the reality TV show was popular among the inmates. Skoumbourdis, an unemployed  cancer survivor, was jailed for at least three-and-a-half years in December 2018, Wollongong Mercury reported. Ms Jennings' father was secretly recorded by police making a series of small-scale drug deals from his Warrawong housing commission flat, south of Sydney, over a five-month period in 2016. Skoumbourdis, who led a five-man group, went on to use his illegal earnings at the Star Casino and paid for services provided by prostitutes.   He was arrested in December 2016 and is yet to be released from jail. In 2018, the court was told Skoumbourdis had a range of medical conditions including heart problems, hypertension and reflux disease.  'He will suffer hardship other prisoners' won't suffer and the reality of prison life should not be overlooked,' Judge Andrew Haesler said. Judge Heasler told the court Skoumbourdis said he was regretful and remorseful for his actions.   'I'm prepared to accept he has regrets, but I doubt he's capable of understanding the real impact of his crimes on his immediate community,' he said. Skoumbourdis' total jail sentence will expire in 2022. He is eligible for parole in June this year.  Ms Jennings has quickly became a fan favourite for her hilarious one-liners on the show - where she has opened up about being married once before.    'I was married and we had two little boys. But when our boys were six weeks old, my husband had a terrible accident,' she said.   'It was a really, really hard time in my life. He tripped and fell and landed in his co-worker's vagina and he's still stuck there.' Pictures from her first wedding have recently surfaced online and Ms Jennings was snapped walking down the aisle with her father. She opted for a strapless wedding dress with a sweetheart neckline and a rhinestone belt, along with a long train at the back.  Her hair - which was then a lighter dark blonde hue - was worn in soft waves.  
