{ By Camilla Canocchi for Thisismoney.co.uk   Published:  10:07, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/mortgageshome/article-7977777/Halifax-House-price-inflation-highest-2-years-bounce-tail-off.html }
House prices are rising at the fastest pace since in almost two years, according to Britain's biggest mortgage lender Halifax, as it claimed that the average property's value had jumped by nearly £10,000 in a year.     The Halifax index showed the average house price up 4.1 per cent annually in January at £240,054, but the bank remained cautious about the year ahead, pouring cold water on talk of a Boris bounce as it expects only 'moderate' growth.    The Halifax index has repeatedly outstripped rival reports over the past year, leading some to question its figures, which are based on its own mortgage lending.  On a monthly basis, prices increased by 0.4 per cent, following an unusually big rise of 1.8 per cent in December and 1.2 per cent in November.  The average home now costs £9,270 more than the same time last year, according to Halifax, meaning it has got £812 more expensive every month. Recent reports from property listing portals, Rightmove, Zoopla and OnTheMarket, Rics estate agents and mortgage lenders brokers suggest a pick-up in the property market over recent months. However, agents have cautioned potential sellers not to be over-ambitious and expect higher prices, as affordability is still stretched and many locations remain a buyer's market. Halifax's managing director Russell Galley said market activity had 'undoubtedly' increased in recent months, but added: 'It's too early to say if a corner has been turned.'   'The recent positive figures may actually represent activity that would ordinarily have been expected to take place last year, but was delayed by economic uncertainty.'  Rival mortgage lending giant Nationwide reported last week that prices rising just by 1.9 per cent in the year to January, with the average property value rising to £215,897. Property industry commentators have suggested over the past year that the Halifax index may be overcooking house price rises. 'The Halifax is renowned for giving bigger growth readings and for two consecutive months now it hasn't disappointed,' Lucy Pendleton of estate agents James Pendleton said.  But she also said that the Halifax index was 'clearly signalling that, as buyers and sellers flood back to the table, it is demand that has the run of play'. Jeremy Leaf, a north London estate agent and Rics residential chairman, said the index had proved to be 'one of the most reliable house-price indices'.  'Halifax confirms what we have been seeing at the sharp end since just before the Election - that there is a modest recovery under way,' he said. 'More demand, appraisals and offers but no fireworks as the market remains price-sensitive and the improvement patchy. We will probably only see if a more sustained uplift is underway if stock levels as well as the pace of sales increases - and developers come out of hibernation to acquire more sites.' Mike Scott of estate agency Yopa said the report showed an improving in the market and expected 'a very active first quarter of the year'. 'This continues the trend of increased housing market activity since the same period last year, which has now been seen in improving figures across the board, including the number of houses sold, the number of mortgage approvals, estate agent sentiment and increasing average house prices,' Scott added.  The Halifax's survey adds to recent signs that activity has been picking up.   Earlier this week, property search portal OnTheMarket.com recorded the highest ever number of visitors to its website last month, with traffic exceeding 30million visits, while Rightmove said that visits to its website passed 150million for the first time in January.  Meanwhile, recent figures from the Bank of England show that the number of mortgages approved in December jumped to its highest level in over two years, despite claims at the time that the election was having a freezing effect on the number of transactions.  House prices have only ever been as expensive as they are now compared to wages twice in the past 120 years. That one of those occasions was at the peak of the 2000s property boom will come as no great shock, but that the other was around the start of the 20th century might be a surprise for many. And before the 1900s buying a home in Britain was considerably more expensive than then. This very long-term picture has been delivered by a deep dive into 174 years of UK housing market data by investment firm Schroders, taking us from the Victorian Era, through the world wars, post-war boom, the 1960s and 70s and onto Thatcher’s eighties, the Blair years, the financial crisis, austerity and Brexit Britain.  > Read the full report on 174 years of UK house prices      
