{ By Associated Press   Published:  05:08, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7977191/AP-News-Brief-12-04-m-EST.html }
Payback: Trump ousts officials who testified on impeachment WASHINGTON (AP) - Exacting swift punishment against those who crossed him, an emboldened President Donald Trump on Friday ousted two government officials who had delivered damaging testimony against him during his impeachment hearings. The president took retribution just two days after his acquittal by the Senate. First came news that Trump had ousted Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, the decorated soldier and national security aide who played a central role in the Democrats' impeachment case. Vindman's lawyer said his client was escorted out of the White House complex Friday, told to leave in retaliation for "telling the truth." "The truth has cost Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman his job, his career, and his privacy," attorney David Pressman said in a statement. Vindman's twin brother, Lt. Col. Yevgeny Vindman, also was asked to leave his job as a White House lawyer on Friday, the Army said in a statement. Both men were reassigned to the Army. Next came word that Gordon Sondland, Trump's ambassador to the European Union, also was out. "I was advised today that the President intends to recall me effective immediately as United States Ambassador to the European Union," Sondland said in a statement. ___ Anger and virus cases grow in China with 722 total deaths BEIJING (AP) - The number of confirmed cases of the new virus has risen again in China while fatalities increased to 722 on Saturday, as the ruling Communist Party faced anger and recriminations from the public over the death of a doctor who was threatened by police after trying to sound the alarm about the disease over a month ago. The government announced that another 3,399 people had been diagnosed over the last 24 hours, reversing two days of declines, and raising the total accumulated number of cases on the mainland to 34,546. Cruise ship passengers faced more woe as Japan reported three more cases for a total of 64 on one quarantined vessel and turned away another. President Xi Jinping spoke with President Donald Trump on Friday and urged the U.S. to "respond reasonably" to the outbreak, echoing complaints that some countries are overreacting by restricting Chinese travelers. Following an online uproar over the government's treatment of Dr. Li Wenliang, the Communist Party struck a conciliatory note, saying it is sending a team to "fully investigate relevant issues raised by the public." Li, a 34-year-old ophthalmologist, contracted the virus while treating patients, and his death was confirmed early Friday. Li, one of eight medical professionals in Wuhan who tried to warn colleagues and others when the government did not, had said that police forced him to sign a statement admitting he spread falsehoods. ___ Front-runners Buttigieg and Sanders beat back debate attacks MANCHESTER, N.H. (AP) - Democratic presidential front-runners Bernie Sanders and Pete Buttigieg beat back a barrage of attacks during a Friday night debate as rivals raised persistent questions about their ideology and experience, hoping to sow doubts about whether they could defeat President Donald Trump. Reeling from a weak finish in this week's Iowa caucuses, former Vice President Joe Biden was a chief aggressor throughout the night. He questioned Sanders' status as a democratic socialist and said Buttigieg, the 38-year-old former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, doesn't have the background to lead in a complicated world. Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who is struggling to break into the top tier, echoed those criticisms. But Sanders and Buttigieg, who essentially tied in Iowa, largely brushed off the broadsides. "Donald Trump lies all the time," Sanders said in response to suggestions that Trump would use his self-described identity as a democratic socialist to brand him - and all Democrats - as radical. Buttigieg sought to turn skepticism of his resume into a positive, portraying himself as a fresh face from outside Washington with experience in dealing with real-life problems and ready to lead a weary nation in a new direction. ___ AP FACT CHECK: Dems skew health care, Iraq facts in debate WASHINGTON (AP) - Democratic presidential contenders stretched beyond the facts on policy and sometimes on their own records Friday in their New Hampshire debate. Amy Klobuchar called out Pete Buttigieg for an evolution on health care that he didn´t acknowledge. Joe Biden told only part of the story when he boasted about a success as vice president in getting troops home from Iraq. A look at how some of their claims from Manchester, New Hampshire, compare with the facts: KLOBUCHAR, on Buttigieg´s evolution on health care: "And Pete, while you have a different plan now, you sent out a tweet just a few years ago that said henceforth, forthwith, indubitably, affirmatively, you are for `Medicare for All´ for the ages." BUTTIGIEG: "Just to be clear, the truth is that I have been consistent throughout in my position on delivering health care for every American." ___ Probe: Bryant helicopter was 100 feet from clear skies LOS ANGELES (AP) - A witness to the deadly crash of a helicopter carrying Kobe Bryant and eight others said it sounded normal just before slamming into a hillside and wreckage examined by experts at the scene showed no sign of engine failure, federal investigators said in a report released Friday. The Jan. 26 crash occurred in cloudy conditions and aviation experts said the "investigative update" from the National Transportation Safety Board reinforces the notion the pilot became disoriented and crashed while trying to get to clear skies around Calabasas, northwest of Los Angeles. The veteran pilot, Ara Zobayan, came agonizingly close to finding his way out of the clouds. He told air traffic control he was climbing to 4,000 feet (1,219 meters). He ascended to 2,300 feet (701 meters), just 100 feet (30 meters) from what camera footage later reviewed by the NTSB showed was the top of the clouds. But rather than continuing higher Zobayan began a high-speed descent and left turn in rapidly rising terrain. He slammed into the hillside at more than 180 mph (290 kph) and was descending at 4,000 feet (1,219 meters) per minute. ___ Judge strikes blow to US immigration enforcement tactics SAN DIEGO (AP) - A federal judge has prohibited U.S. immigration authorities from relying on databases deemed faulty to ask law enforcement agencies to hold people in custody, a setback for the Trump administration that threatens to hamper how it carries out arrests. The ruling applies only to the Central District of California, where state law already sharply limits the extent to which state and local law enforcement agencies can honor requests from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But the district encompasses ICE's Pacific Enforcement Response Center in Laguna Niguel, which makes requests around-the-clock to law enforcement agencies in 42 states and two U.S. territories. The ruling, issued Wednesday, applies even if ICE moves the operation from Laguna Niguel, south of Los Angeles. U.S. District Judge Andre Birotte Jr. in Los Angeles said the databases are unreliable for people who are not already deported or in removal proceedings before an immigration judge. The best way to confirm legal status is through an interview, immigration records or other documents, he wrote. During Barack Obama's presidency, immigration authorities dramatically increased requests to prisons and jails to hold people an additional 48 hours if they are suspected of being in the country illegally. The practice, which has continued under President Donald Trump, often gives immigration authorities time to arrest people before they are released. ___ Healthy US job market: How big a political edge for Trump? WASHINGTON (AP) - U.S. hiring jumped last month, and many more people were encouraged to look for work, showing that the economy remains robust despite threats from China´s viral outbreak, an ongoing trade war and struggles at Boeing. The strong job growth gives President Donald Trump more evidence for his assertion that the economy is flourishing under his watch. It may also complicate the argument his Democratic presidential rivals are making that the economy isn´t benefiting everyday Americans. The Labor Department said Friday that employers added a robust 225,000 jobs in January. At the same time, a half-million Americans, feeling better about their job prospects, streamed into the job market. Most found jobs. But those that didn´t were newly counted as unemployed, and their numbers raised the jobless rate to 3.6% from December´s half-century low of 3.5%. Seven Democratic presidential candidates were to debate later Friday in New Hampshire. Leading contenders, notably Sens. Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, have built campaigns around the argument that the middle class has been mostly left out of an economic expansion that has disproportionately served the wealthy. The outcome of the presidential race could hinge in part on whether enough voters agree that inequality and rising costs for services such as health care, housing and college education outweigh the benefits from nearly 11 years of economic growth. ___ Cyborgs, trolls and bots: A guide to online misinformation NEW YORK (AP) - Cyborgs, trolls and bots can fill the internet with lies and half-truths. Understanding them is key to learning how misinformation spreads online. As the 2016 election showed, social media is increasingly used to amplify false claims and divide Americans over hot-button issues including race and immigration. Researchers who study misinformation predict it will get worse leading up to this year's presidential vote. Here's a guide to understanding the problem: MISINFORMATION VS. DISINFORMATION Political misinformation has been around since before the printing press, but the internet has allowed falsehoods, conspiracy theories and exaggerations to spread faster and farther than ever. Misinformation is defined as any false information, regardless of intent, including honest mistakes or misunderstandings of the facts. Disinformation, on the other hand, typically refers to misinformation created and spread intentionally as a way to confuse or mislead. ___ Trump's acquittal confronts Dems with election year choices WASHINGTON (AP) - Donald Trump´s impeachment ended with a reminder of why House Speaker Nancy Pelosi resisted the idea for so long - an acquittal everyone saw coming, followed by a bombastic presidential victory lap and a bump in his poll numbers just as the 2020 campaign officially began. Now Democrats have to decide how to navigate the legislative and political landscape that they've helped reshape. Pelosi's nationally televised ripping of her copy of Trump's State of the Union address Tuesday night underscored the acrid atmosphere that will make partisan cooperation on any issue difficult. Major legislative compromises were always going to be hard this election year, but the impeachment fight only deepened partisan bitterness and made progress less likely. "Because we have to," No. 2 House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer of Maryland said when asked how Congress and Trump could cooperate on health care and other issues. He added, "I'd be foolish to be optimistic because we have not done that so far." Democrats must also decide how vigorously to continue investigations, including into impeachment's focus: Trump's effort to pressure Ukraine's leaders to bolster his reelection by seeking dirt on rival Joe Biden. The GOP-controlled Senate acquitted Trump on Wednesday of both articles of impeachment, with Utah Sen. Mitt Romney the sole lawmaker defying party lines. ___ Roger Kahn, elegant 'Boys of Summer' author, dies at 92 MAMARONECK, N.Y. (AP) - Roger Kahn, the writer who wove memoir and baseball and touched millions of readers through his romantic account of the Brooklyn Dodgers in "The Boys of Summer," has died. He was 92. He died Thursday at a nursing facility in Mamaroneck, a Westchester County suburb, son Gordon Kahn said. "Roger Kahn loved the game and earned a place in the pantheon of baseball literature long ago. He will be missed, but his words will live on," Major League Baseball said in a statement. The author of 20 books and hundreds of articles, Kahn was best known for the 1972 best-seller that looked at his relationship with his father through their shared love of the Dodgers, an object of nostalgia for the many fans who mourned the team´s move to Los Angeles after the 1957 season. "At a point in life when one is through with boyhood, but has not yet discovered how to be a man, it was my fortune to travel with the most marvelously appealing of teams," Kahn wrote. 
