housing
{ By Daniel Martin Policy Editor For The Daily Mail   Published:  01:24, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7976573/First-time-buyers-cost-home-new-government-plan.html }
First-time buyers will be able to get a third off the cost of a home under a ‘life-changing’ government proposal. They could potentially save £100,000 on the purchase with key workers such as nurses and police prioritised. Military veterans would also jump the queue for the tens of thousands of cut-price homes. Ministers say the proposed 30 per cent off would be paid for through contributions from housing developers. And the discount would be passed on when the property is sold so the new local buyer will also benefit. It has not yet been decided how ‘local’ a person must be to qualify for it. Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick said it would be ‘genuinely life-changing’ for people all over the country. He added: ‘I know that many who are seeking to buy their own home in their local areas have been forced out due to rising prices. ‘A proportion of new homes will be made available at a 30 per cent market discount rate – turning the dial on the dream of home ownership. ‘The discount will be passed on with the sale of the property to future first-time buyers, helping thousands more people in years to come and ensuring local communities can stick together.’ The average price of a newly built property in England is £314,000. Under the First Homes scheme, a house sold with 30 per cent off at this price would deliver a saving of around £94,000. The Government said the average newly-built home in Cornwall, for example, costs £246,000 – meaning a 30 per cent discount delivers a saving of more than £73,000. The proposed scheme is now out for consultation, meaning there are few details on how it will work. Councils will apply a ‘local connection’ test to define how nearby to the new home you have to live. They may decide it refers to a local authority area, or to a particular small village. The 30 per cent discount will only be applied after an independent surveyor has ruled on the property’s market value. The Government said the reduction will apply to ‘a proportion’ of new homes, and the consultation will look at how this will be delivered. While there will be an upper limit on the price of a house a person can get a discount on, this has not yet been decided. Military veterans will be prioritised as part of the Armed Forces Covenant. And councils will also be able to use the scheme for frontline workers such as police, firefighters, nurses, prison officers and teachers. Ministers also committed to delivering more than one million new homes over the next five years to further improve housing affordability. They envisage tens of thousands of First Homes being built, with measures also to help release more land. Paula Higgins, chief executive of the HomeOwners Alliance, said: ‘We know first-time buyers will welcome the opportunity to buy a good quality home at a discount in their local area. ‘We look forward to contributing to the consultation and working with the Government. ‘This will ensure that the scheme does what it says on the tin – delivering more high quality and affordable local homes for current and future first-time buyers.’ As Housing Secretary, it’s my mission to get more homes built right across the country and make home ownership an achievable aspiration for young people. Under this Conservative government, we are already building more houses than in any year bar one in the last 30 years – we delivered almost a quarter of a million new homes in 2019. But we need to do more to level up and provide people with attractive, environmentally friendly and affordable homes that they feel proud to live in. That’s why I am focusing on helping young people as well as key local workers such as police officers, nurses and teachers, get a foot on the housing ladder. Today I am launching First Homes, which we promised to do in our manifesto, which will help turn people’s dream of owning a home into a reality by providing discounted homes. These new, high quality, affordable homes will be built across the country, so that there is a wide choice in every area. In fact every major development will include some of them. We all know that owning a home provides people with a unique sense of pride and achievement – it means that you have a place that is truly yours. I remember my grandfather telling the story of how he became the first person on his street in Manchester to buy his own house and probably the first in his family as well. To him and generations since, owning a home was about more than four walls and a roof. It was about investing in your future, having something you own that can be borrowed against to set up a business or handed to the next generation, creating a place for your family to grow and putting down roots in your local community. It was and is about a sense of place – something that is the heart of this One Nation Conservative Government. Extending the dream of home ownership has been central to the moral mission of the Conservative Party for over a century. From the 1920s, when Conservative MP Noel Skeleton coined the phrase of a property ownership democracy, to the 1980s, when Margaret Thatcher helped thousands of council house tenants to own their own home. We believe in a society where as many people as people can open their front door and say, “welcome to my home”. But today, while the vast majority of young people share the dream of becoming a homeowner, only 27 per cent of under-35s are property owners. I’m impatient for change. We know that affordability is the biggest barrier to entry. Over the last 23 years, the average national house price has increased from just under £59,000 over £235,000, quadrupling the deposit needed to buy. As a result, many young people are forced to move out of the communities where they grew up in order to buy a home. First Homes will address these issues and create a new generation of homeowners by cutting the cost of new homes by a minimum of 30 per cent for first time buyers. This will lower deposit and mortgage requirements, widening the range of affordable options for those people who find themselves locked out of purchasing homes at the market price. And the discount would be locked the property in perpetuity – meaning that future generations will continue to benefit from this revolutionary scheme. Regardless of whether you want to live in Cornwall or Cumbria, I want to help local people to be able to build a life and raise a family wherever they feel most at home. First Homes is central to that vision and today’s announcement sets out this Government’s plans to accelerate home ownership and give local people a fair advantage when it comes to buying a home. Progress has already been made, and First Homes is just one of the steps that this Government is taking to make home ownership a reality for this and future generations. We have already reformed Stamp Duty for first-time buyers of properties under £500,000, which has already brought tax savings to 400,000 households, and we are starting to see the results. The latest figures show the number of first-time buyers reaching nearly 360,000, an eleven-year annual high and an increase of 84% since 2010. And one of the first things I did as Housing Secretary was to take steps to overhaul shared ownership with a new, better national model that will unlock the dream of homeownership for those who can’t currently afford it. I’m sure that Mail readers remember the moment they got the keys to their first home – it’s a moment we all remember. Now it’s our duty to extend that sense of empowerment to the next generation and get them on the property ladder. First Homes will do just that and has the potential to transform the property market for local first-time buyers. My message to first time buyers is simple: this Government is on your side. 
