housing
{ By Phoebe Eckersley For Mailonline   Published:  15:46, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034959/Couple-slam-Persimmon-183-000-new-build-home-ruined-diabolical-flooded-garden.html }
A furious couple have slammed Persimmon after their £183,000 new-build home was ruined by a 'diabolical' flooded garden when they moved in. Kai Harrison, 23, was moving into a three-bedroom property with partner Annie, 24, in the Rivendell estate, Nottingham.  He said the second they looked through the door, they knew it 'needed rotovating' in November. The garden's condition was reported to Persimmon Homes Nottingham but nothing had been done months down the line, Mr Harrison alleged.    They 'didn't finish the garden, basically' and it was 'effectively a bog' with four or five inches of water standing.   The retail supervisor, from Leicester, added: 'There's a paving slab that they've abandoned that's just emerged out, sticking out the ground.'  He also explained its condition hadn't really changed, despite the recent heavy rain.   The couple are said to have been told a month ago, but the new home owner believes it won't be until February or March.   'They're arguing the water needs to disappear out of the garden. Like I keep telling them, it's not going to.' However, he added: 'They are literally building behind my garden and I can see them rotovating and turfing stuff pretty much all the way through that storm that we've just had. So they've made constant excuses around getting things fixed and dragged their heels.'  A spokeswoman for Persimmon Homes Nottingham, said: 'We acknowledged the concerns raised by our customer upon completion of his home. All issues have been completed with the exception of the rear garden.' The 'inclement weather' prevented the team from completing the works and they intend to address this as soon as the weather improves, she alleged.    More than 800 properties are expected to be built at the estate in the coming years. A new school, eco-park and several sports fields all form part of the multi-million-pound project described as a 'mini-city' by a council leader. It comes after another homeowner on the estate previously said mortar was coming away from brickwork - and a separate couple said they'd been treated like 'kings and queens' by the developer. Persimmon Homes has been approached for comment.    
