{ By James Gordon For Dailymail.com  and Reuters   Published:  07:03, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031559/Californias-Gov-Newsom-says-doctors-write-housing-prescriptions.html }
Doctors in California may soon be given the power to prescribe housing for sick patients. In a radical new proposal outlines in a series of tweets on Friday, the state's governor, Gavin Newsom suggested a plan to combat the healthcare and homelessness situation in his state. Newsom noted that healthcare and homelessness are not separate problems and suggested doctors should be able to prescribe a place to stay if they are treating a someone who is mentally ill that does not have stable housing. 'Doctors should be able to write prescriptions for housing the same way they do for insulin or antibiotics,' Newsom said. 'We need to start targeting social determinants of health. We need to start treating brain health like we do physical health. What's more fundamental to a person's well being than a roof over their head?' '10 million Californians—1 in 4—suffer from some type of behavioral health condition. It's not a narrow issue. It's not a new issue. Physical health and brain health are inextricably linked. And our healthcare system has been designed to treat only one of those,' he wrote. Newsom made a similar point during his State of the State address on Wednesday. In it, he explained how California Advancing and Innovating Medi-Cal, an agency that is working to revamp the state's healthcare program Medi-Cal, asked the legislature for $695 million which would be invested in a holistic healthcare program that would include housing for the mentally ill. Newsom's funding for housing for mentally ill people is part of a $222 billion budget proposal for the state.  He proposed that broader health issues, along with mental health, be addressed in dealing with homelessness. 'Health care and housing can no longer be divorced. After all, what's more fundamental to a person's well-being than a roof over their head?' 'The deeper truth is that our healthcare system has been designed to treat some of our parts, not the sum of our parts. That must change,' Newsom said. 'This landmark proposal calls for leveraging Medi-Cal as a tool to help California's most vulnerable residents: the homeless, our children, and people cycling in and out of the criminal justice system.'  'This is about integrating care. Targeting social determinants of health and expanding our Whole Person Care pilots statewide,' he said.  The state's homelessness crisis is now at such a level that it has become the number one priority for Newsom to tackle. 'Let's call it what it is, a disgrace, that the richest state in the richest nation ... is failing to properly house, heal and humanely treat so many of its own people,' Newsom said during his address.  California's homeless population soared 16% last year to around 151,000 with a statewide scarcity of affordable housing one of the root causes despite government spending. Newsom has already proposed spending an additional $750 million to get people into housing this year - on top of the more than $1 billion from previous allocations - and $695 million to expand homeless services. Many of his proposals were aimed at cutting red tape and providing faster solutions. 'We need more housing, not more delays,' he said. California will provide nearly 300 state properties for use as homeless shelters and may change its laws to make it easier for local officials to get the mentally ill off the streets,  The state has also begun rolling out emergency mobile housing trailers and services for homeless families and seniors, including in rural areas where homelessness is on the rise. In San Francisco, the levels of homelessness means that it is also clogging up hospital space in the area. The city announced recently that it will distribute tents to those that need them. As of last year, there were 150,000 homeless people living in California.  The problem has become so severe that tourism is down in major cities including Los Angeles and San Francisco, and residents, like Novak, are shuttering businesses and selling their homes.  While the direct cause of the crisis is difficult to trace, it is due in large part to the swelling of property prices thanks to Silicon Valley and L.A. combined with a shortage of affordable options or outreach.  It has led to tent cities popping up across the state, often in expensive neighborhoods, because the homeless population simply has nowhere else to go.  Los Angeles - 59,000 homeless A worrying report last year by the L.A. Times found that the city's homeless population had gone up by 75 percent in the last six years.  It was due in large part to a huge number of residents losing homes and then struggling to compete with younger house-hunters who could afford more than them.  The count earlier this year for the city's homeless population was 59,000 which marked a six percent increase on 2018.  Three quarters of that number are unsheltered, living on the street.  San Francisco - 8,011  homeless  In San Francisco, a city with a population of 884,363, nearly 10 percent is homeless at 8,011.  The majority (5,000) are living on the street.  San Francisco's problem has been among the most documented and one of the most unsettling symptoms of it is the vast amount of human waste scattered around the city. The excretion problem, coupled with the growing number of discarded, dirty needles, has also led to health scares.  Sacramento - 5,570 homeless Over the last two years, the rate of homelessness has risen in Sacramento by 19 percent.  More than a tenth of that number, 688, were children, and 70 percent were living without shelter.  
