cars
{ By Charlie Moore For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:08, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033189/The-draconian-new-road-rules-considered-Australia.html }
Halving the blood alcohol limit and removing mobile speed camera warning signs are among measures being considered to improve road safety in New South Wales. Reducing the default speed limit from 100kmh to 80khm and expanding 30kmh zones will also be discussed at the Towards Zero Road Safety Summit next month. The meeting, held six weeks after four children were allegedly killed by a drink-driver in Oatlands, north-west Sydney, will help ministers devise the state's next road safety plan.  It will consider measures used in Norway and Sweden, which have some of the lowest road death rates in the world. Among them is a drink drive limit of 0.02, more than half the current 0.05 limit. That would mean just one mid-strength beer would generally put someone over the limit.  Drink drive limit of 0.02 More 30kmh zones Removal of mobile speed check warning signs Reduction of default speed limit from 100kmh to 80kmh Average speed cameras for cars More cars with better safety tech  The rule is already in place for bus and HGV drivers but could be expanded to regular car drivers. The summit will also consider reducing the default speed limit from 100kmh to copy the Swedish limit of 80kmh or the Norwegian limit of 90kmh. Last month suburbs in northern Sydney saw 30kmh zones introduced for residential areas - and these could be rolled out in more places around the state. Another policy on the table is to remove warning signs for mobile speed cameras so motorists think their speed could be checked at any time. Using average speed cameras to measure a car driver's speed over a longer period of time will also be considered.  Currently average speed cameras are only used on Heavy Goods Vehicle drivers.  Finally, the summit will discuss measures to encourage drivers to buy cars with lane assist and emergency braking technology. Around 100 international transport experts will be at the summit, according to the Daily Telegraph.  Last year 352 people were killed and around 11,000 people were seriously injured in car crashes in New South Wales. The Towards Zero campaign by Transport for New South Wales aims to have zero road deaths by 2056. Last week Danny Abdallah, who lost three children in a crash last month, told Daily Mail Australia the NSW state government should scrap the current blood alcohol limit of 0.5. Just days after burying his son Antony, 13, and daughters Angelina, 12, and Sienna, 9, the grieving father called for security guards to be able to take keys off drunk patrons and for interlock devices to become mandatory.  'I'm a drinker, but I think the alcohol limit should be zero.' he told Daily Mail Australia. 'I think you should just know that you can't have any, that you can only have water, so the temptation isn't there. 'People think "I'll just have one more, I'll be all right" because they don't want to get a taxi or an Uber, or they've spent all their money on the night out.  'We have to do something.' 
