{ By Peter Hitchens for The Mail on Sunday   Published:  22:21, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//debate/article-8032849/PETER-HITCHENS-unlikely-villain-nannying-warnings-finally-revealed.html }
My day is besieged with infuriating health and safety warnings. If I buy coffee at the station it says on the lid that the ‘Contents May be Hot’.  I should jolly well hope so, just as I was rather hoping that the biscuit I have bought ‘may contain nuts’, as its label solemnly informs me. As I cross the bridge to my platform a treacly, ingratiating male voice intones: ‘When on the stairs, please use the handrail – and take care!’  If I had been thinking of using the handrail, I always give up the idea as soon as I hear this. I probably take less care, too, on the principle that I will decide when to take care, not when some computerised social worker tells me to. When I reach the platform, the railway company’s total silence about the delay to my train is punctuated with brusque, hostile announcements in a disapproving female voice telling me to stand behind the yellow line, so as to be safe from the supposed slipstream of the train that hasn’t arrived. And there are posters warning me (untruly) that ‘high-speed trains pass this platform’ and explaining if this happens it is not a good idea to stand too close to them. Until quite recently, the trains on my line were so antique that it was still possible, under certain circumstances, for passengers actually to open the windows and doors themselves. These rash actions were strongly discouraged.  There were perhaps five separate notices, in red or yellow, warning against opening anything except in certain very restricted circumstances. I have been sternly reprimanded by officious staff for leaning out of a train window while the train was at a standstill at a station.  Now the whole thing is hermetically sealed, and I am often prevented from boarding, or detained on the train, while the driver, or the guard, or perhaps a computer in Yokohama, decides whether it is safe to unlock the doors. While I wait I will be told repeatedly to mind the gap between the train and the platform or, on other lines, to mind the gap between the platform and the train. In my view, they would be better occupied arranging for my trains to arrive and depart on time. If it has been raining, I will be warned that it might be wet underfoot. The opening and closing of the doors is always accompanied by a loud annoying beeping, to make us hurry and to reduce the risk of anyone getting slightly squashed. This is life in modern Britain. I do not think the railway companies (or all the other bodies that do this sort of thing) especially care whether I fall down the stairs or slip down the gap between the train and the platform, or whether I am sucked into the side of a passing bullet train. No doubt they would be distressed if this took place, but there would be nothing personal about it. They badger me and you with these unceasing admonitions because they just want to be as sure as they can be that they are not blamed if this happens, and so do not face a lawsuit from my surviving relatives.  I suspect that their insurance companies also insist on it, so they can say that they warned me and their liability is reduced. This fear – of lawsuits and of insurance companies refusing to pay out – is the source of the perpetual, nosey-parker concern for our safety which is utterly maddening for those who can remember the freedom we used to have. Do not mistake my attitude for rashness. I am keen on being safe. I think seat belts in cars are vital, and applaud real advances in safety such as stronger railway carriages and bans on drinking and driving. But what are we to make of what has happened to the cheese-rolling contest in Brockworth, Gloucestershire, an event now protected with fencing, in which a Double Gloucester cheese is chased down a steep hill for fun? Nowadays this ludicrous but happy festival takes place in a semi-official limbo. Growing insurance costs meant that nobody would take responsibility for it any more. Supposed ‘health and safety fears’ led to the actual cancellation of the ‘official’ event in 2010.  Now, though it happens, it is surrounded with offputting precautions, which seem to me to be there to keep lawyers away rather than to promote safety. Roads are closed all around the site. One year police – police! – warned against the perilous use of a real cheese, weighing 8 lb, and it was replaced by a lightweight foam substitute. On one recent occasion stern notices warned those rash enough to attend to go away. They stated grimly: ‘Cheese rolling is a dangerous activity for both participants and spectators. The cheese roll is not managed. You are strongly encouraged not to attend. It is especially unsuitable for children. You attend entirely at your own risk.’ People do attend, and there is at least something funny about a regulated cheese roll. But watch out, each November, for heartbreaking stories about Remembrance Day parades cancelled because of ludicrous health and safety concerns. In 2015, the commemoration of the fallen in Caerleon, in South Wales, was cancelled for the first time in 50 years when organisers were quoted a price of £700 to insure the event. It is far from being the only example. But when these crazy and dispiriting things happen, I doubt that one person in 100,000 knows why. There is a general belief that some Left-wing thing called ‘Health and Safety’, perhaps linked with ‘Human Rights’, has been introduced into our country, probably by Brussels. Others connect it with Political Correctness, gone mad or otherwise. They are all quite wrong. Almost nobody knows the names of its true culprits, the Right Honourable Baroness Thatcher, her successor Sir John Major, and their Lord Chancellor, the devout and distinguished James Peter Hymers Mackay, otherwise known as Lord Mackay of Clashfern. Let me explain. The 1945 Labour government had, rather nobly, decided that justice was not justice if it was not available to everyone.  It had created the Legal Aid system which allowed people who had been wronged, or accused of grave crimes, to pay for good lawyers to fight their cases. Justice, however, turned out to be too expensive. The system was increasingly means-tested. As so often, this meant crazy anomalies. The middle classes, whose taxes pay for the system, struggled to get Legal Aid themselves. But in high-profile cases, enormous sums were paid to defendants or claimants who looked pretty undeserving. By the middle of the 1980s, only half the population were still effectively covered. Yet it was still hugely expensive. By 1986 the net cost was £342million. So the Thatcher government decided to try another way. It would license the so-called ‘no-win, no fee’ system which exists in the USA. It is also known there as ‘ambulance-chasing’ because of the sordid practice of attorneys appearing like vultures at scenes of grief, and offering their services. Such cases looked as if they were free of charge (though it is not as simple as that, especially if you lose) and so Mrs Thatcher thought they might be a substitute for the Legal Aid which she planned to slash, and which has indeed been slashed. Such cases had long been banned here because of the nasty effect everyone who understood them assumed they would have. Many, especially experienced lawyers and judges, warned of a paradise for ambulance-chasing, bounty-hunting legal sharks, who would scour the country for clients with grievances, and make a living out of driving their dubious cases through the courts. It was easy to see, by looking at the USA, how this would work. I had seen it myself on visits there in the 1980s and while I lived there in the Clinton era.  I laughed, then, at the crude TV advertisements showing people falling victim to terrible accidents (my favourite was a man whose motel balcony collapsed under him) and then making piles of dollars by calling a free hotline to their local attorney. It was scarier for me than for most people. As a journalist, a high-risk trade, I could not get general liability insurance at all.  I just had to accept (for instance) that if somebody came to my Maryland home and spilled boiling water on their hand, they could sue me for vast sums of money and I would be liable for it. But in Britain it was just an added cost – a tax, imposed through ever-higher insurance premiums on every working family in the country.  And those insurance companies pay out, usually without going to court, because they are so sure the courts will find against them that it is cheaper to do so.  In return, they demand the incessant precautions, notices, warnings and restrictions on normal, sensible life that we now all have to endure. I suspect Mrs Thatcher was a little embarrassed by what she was doing. Why else was her plan introduced so stealthily? Why else did the legislation contain a peculiar delaying device, which brought it into force long after it was passed and, as it happens, long after she had left Downing Street? It was excoriated by experts and laymen alike in the House of Lords. But Mrs Thatcher was sure it would work.  She went gaily ahead with this Bloodsuckers’ Charter, more politely known as the 1990 Courts and Legal Services Act (Section 58). But it did not come into force until after she had been overthrown in late 1990, which is why it is not usually associated with her.  In fact, there was a long hesitation. The law was finally activated in 1995 by the passage of the Conditional Fee Agreements Regulations.  In a last-ditch attempt to stop it, which failed by only six votes, the late Lord Ackner warned ‘there will be occasions when this country will exceed the worst excesses of the United States’. He noted that the original Bill had been ‘enacted in the teeth of opposition from seven Law Lords, the Master of the Rolls, a former Lord Chancellor, my noble and learned friend Lord Hailsham, a former Attorney-General, the noble and learned lord, Lord Rawlinson of Ewell and the Law Commission’. On March 15, 1990, in a House of Lords debate, Lord Ackner was blunter still, saying: ‘Many of us recognise it as being evil.’ A few weeks earlier, another highly experienced lawyer, Lord Mishcon, had warned: ‘To walk into the possibility of the American model of contingency fees is asking for trouble for the public and the profession.’ But the most ferocious denunciation came from Lord Hailsham, a former Lord Chancellor and once thought of as a possible Tory premier. He said: ‘I regard this as a straightforward moral issue. I believe a conditional fee of the type proposed… to be inherently immoral. It undermines the whole ethic of advocacy, the whole ethic of the legal profession.’  He added: ‘If we make it pay to be dishonest, people will become dishonest even if they start by being honest. That is what this proposal will do.’ He accused his own Tory colleagues of trying to use the system to provide a substitute for Legal Aid. Who can now say that any of these warnings were wrong? On TV, in hospitals themselves, wherever a bewildered and angry possible client might be seduced into beginning an expensive lawsuit, advertisements entice us into launching no win, no fee legal actions. And many of us do.  The taxes which were saved by cutting Legal Aid have been added instead to the insurance premiums we must pay. Or they have been loaded on to the ever-increasing legal burden of the NHS. So we have gained nothing, while losing a great deal of freedom.  This is why the world has been transformed into a place where everyone is trying frantically to avoid responsibility for any fault or failing, in which we must be perpetually warned, nannied and prevented from taking the tiniest risk. Now you know. Wouldn’t it be good to live in a country where, when a bad mistake is made, the government recognises that, and reverses it? But will anyone have the courage to put it right, or will it continue until it says ‘Warning: Open other end’ on the bottoms of all wine bottles, and even a pair of shoes comes with a warning of the dangers of leaving the laces undone – if we are still allowed to have such dangerous things as shoelaces at all? If you want to comment on Peter Hitchens click here   
