{ By Tom Parker Bowles Event for The Mail on Sunday   Published:  22:01, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//home/event/article-8024559/The-Fat-Ducks-No-2-Hes-real-No-1-now.html }
Trivet 36 Snowsfields, London SE1 When a new restaurant is opened by the former head chef of the Fat Duck, you expect, at the very least, some form of culinary high-jinks. Bluetooth blancmange, perhaps, the pudding’s wobble transformed into a gut-trembling, appetite-inducing ringtone. Or edible anger. Or The Cars That Ate Paris. And Jonny Lake was no mere flash in the pan, rather an integral, essential part of Heston Blumenthal’s team, one part glue to two parts graft and inspiration. He’d been there for 13 years, rising, eventually, to executive head chef for the whole group. But Trivet, a small, resolutely modern restaurant in the shadow of the Shard is as low-key as it is understated. Lots of blonde wood and natural light, and a carefully curated collection of kettles and pans and scales that look like a guest exhibit from a V&A exhibition entitled Tasteful Cooking Utensils Through The Ages. There’s a quietly intense open kitchen at the back, where Lake and his team (including head chef Michele Stanco, another Fat Duck alumnus) chop and sauté and plate with careful, unshowy precision. Yet another of the Fat Duck old boys, Isa Bal, the softly spoken and genially hirsute sommelier, is a master. Matthew, who knows the whole crew well, suggests leaving any vinous decisions in his hands. We do. I suggest you do the same. An elegant Turkish white (Vinolus Narince), followed, in the interests of neighbourly and unhistorical unity, by a juicy, peppery Greek red (Dalamara Paliokalias). There are tapioca crisps to crunch, and good olives, and dense, chewy brown bread and culatello, silk handkerchiefs of sweet intensity from that porcine prince of Parma, Massimo Spigaroli. Trivet is one of those places where quality shines at every level, from service right down to the salt. Because Lake’s cooking is pure, clean and utterly confident. Veal sweetbreads, expertly burnished, are proudly, magnificently glan-dular and come with slices of raw mushroom that both mirror and cosset that soft texture. The whole dish is an artful balancing act of rich and sharp, with a sticky, lovely jus, and a hint of blackberry acidity. Matthew’s pasta, Dante’s Pici, has chewy, fresh noodles, with intensely sweet, just-picked crab and the saline crunch of samphire and shards of artichoke, too. ‘Polite,’ muses Matthew, ‘but so damned good.’ Just like ‘chicken with a vinegar sauce’, so deceptively simple in description, and so utterly mesmerising on the plate. The chicken is joyously succulent, tasting of a life well led, sitting in a sharp, Cabernet Sauvignon reduction. The skin is expertly crisp. I didn’t think Richard Corrigan’s salt-baked chook could ever be beaten. But it’s found its match here. A potato purée that is more butter than spud is exactly as it should be. I only manage a small bite of Matthew’s poached and roasted duck (he defends his plate like a Spartan at Thermopylae), intense and sprinkled with puffed rice. Again, the kitchen ensures that the duck is the star of the show. We finish with a pudding of rhubarb and mint as pretty as it is thrilling. There’s poached rhubarb, and rhubarb ice cream, and pistachio ice cream, and some sort of crunchy honeyed base. A truly memorable pudding. And I never remember pudding. The cooking reminds me of Phil Howard, a man whose technique is flawless, yet he always gets straight to the soul of his ingredients. Lake is the same. Modest, unassuming and spectacularly talented, this is the sort of place you know will impress, time after time after time. Nothing foraged or pickled or fermented, just assuredly satisfying modern cooking to please even the most fussy of palates. It’s not cheap. But this is a serious restaurant. Up there with the best. Jonny Lake is no longer the great Blumenthal’s second in command. With Trivet, he’s moved to number one. About £60 per head   
