{ By Roxy Simons and Gillian Fisher For Mailonline   Published:  13:50, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8032161/The-Batman-Glasgow-transforms-dark-city-Gotham-set-designers-recreate-iconic-location.html }
He's usually seen fighting crime in the corrupt city of Gotham. But Batman descended upon drizzly Glasgow in full black body armour as he filmed high-speed chase scenes on a motorbike on Saturday. The Scottish city is standing in for the fictional metropolis of Gotham in the upcoming film The Batman, starring Robert Pattinson. The caped crusader- Robert's stunt double- tore down hills and through the tombstones of Glasgow's Victorian Necropolis wearing the full Bat-Suit, complete with the iconic pointy-eared cowl and sculpted armour plates made to resemble muscles.  The skintight suit featured silicon shoulder pads, and a chest plate which bore the signature bat symbol. Pattinson's stunt-double was clearly ready for action with a medieval looking arm gauntlets loaded with silver darts.   The Batman character was also sporting the integral utility belt around his waist which bore multiple pouches and holsters.  A source told the Sunday Mail Glasgow was selected for its gothic architecture and winding streets.  Glasgow was also used to shoot high-speed chase scenes for Fast and Furious Nine as it's grid system makes it easier to close down sections of road. Set designers were seen out on the streets of Glasgow transforming the area they were set to film in into the dark city of Gotham, on Saturday. The crew could be seen muddying up the road to cover up parking spaces and white lines, erasing all signs that the film was being shot in the Scottish city. Other set designers were seen putting Gotham City number plates on the cars that were lined up on set. Adding to the gritty atmosphere, the cars that were being used were also covered in dirt to suggest they had been left there for a long time. Robert Pattinson's stunt double was then seen on set, filming in the city's Necropolis cemetery and driving around on a motorbike in full Batman costume. On Friday, Batman descended upon drizzly Glasgow in full black body armour as he roared around a cemetery on a motorbike during filming. The Scottish city is standing in for the fictional metropolis of Gotham in the film The Batman, which is being directed by Matt Reeves.  Robert's stunt double- tore through the tombstones wearing the full Bat-Suit, complete with the iconic pointy-eared cowl and sculpted armour plates made to resemble muscles.  The skintight suit featured silicon shoulder pads, and a chest plate which bore the signature bat symbol. Pattinson's stunt-double was clearly ready for action with a medieval looking arm gauntlets loaded with silver darts.  The Batman character was also sporting the integral utility belt around his waist which bore multiple pouches and holsters.  A source told the Sunday Mail Glasgow was selected for its gothic architecture and winding streets.  The source said: 'Glasgow will be turned into Gotham City and, with the city’s architecture, it’s expected to look great in the new film.' The crew seemed to be struggling with the weather during the scene as filming had to be paused several times. The Batman double was seen dabbing beneath his cowl with a green cloth as rain had clearly got under his mask, making it difficult to see. Fellow cast members were also seen patting themselves down and one biker had to have their helmet visor dried off before continuing.  Filming has only just begun on the newest chapter of the Batman franchise, with the first scenes being filmed in London in January. Director Matt Reeves shared a camera test of the actor in the new Batman suit via Vimeo. The 56-second clip slowly brings the Bat motif on the front of the suit into focus before panning up to show Pattinson in profile as he flexes his armored shoulders. The footage, set to a dramatic score by composer Michael Giacchino and bathed in red light, ends with Pattinson turning towards the camera revealing the mask that covers his eyes and nose. The Batman which is due for release on 25th June 2021 in both the UK and USA is the ninth film starring the complex crime-fighter. The new film is directed by Matt Reeves who achieved notoriety for his apocalyptic Planet of the Apes sequels.  Reeves, whose credits also include 2008's Cloverfield, took over the project at Warner Bros. from Ben Affleck. Affleck donned the Bat-Suit twice in Batman Vs Superman: Dawn of Justice in 2016 and 2017’s Justice League.  The Good Will Hunting star recently revealed in a New York Times interview, that his drinking issues played a part in his announcement he would stop playing Batman early last year.   The latest Batman offering has attracted a stellar cast, with Paul Dano confirmed as the Riddler and Zoe Kravitz will playing the legendary feline anti-heroine Catwoman. British actor Robert, 33, will be donning the famous cowl as he plays tortured millionaire Bruce Wayne and his vengeful alter-ego Batman. The former star of The Twilight Saga was officially cast as the Caped Crusader last May.  Pattinson had actively pursued the role in The Batman, telling Variety last September: 'I’d had Batman in my mind for a while. It’s such an absurd thing to say.  'I sort of had an idea to do it, and I’d been prodding Matt. He didn’t accept any prods. I kept asking to meet him.'  
