cars
{ By Jessamy Tredinnick For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:17, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031305/The-Block-2020-contestants-revealed-arrive-shows-15MILLION-site-Melbourne.html }
The new contestants of The Block 2020 have been revealed, after they were pictured arriving at the show's $15million site in Melbourne on Thursday.   Five new teams introduced themselves to each other with wide smiles as they lugged their bags towards the weatherboard houses that they will be working on in coming weeks.  It is believed that filming began on the day, and will continue until May. It comes after neighbours were left in uproar over the development. Arriving at the 2,761-square metre $15million building site on New Street in Melbourne, the contestants shook hands and hugged as they were introduced to each other.  The contestants look to be a colourful array of characters, with their varying fashion styles giving subtle hints to both their personalities and design preferences.  One of the first to arrive was a stylish looking pair, clad in the latest labels. The woman styled her balayage hair with blue tank top from the popular brand Camilla and Marc, along with light blue denim jeans and kitten heel pumps. Her competition partner wore a white Ralph Lauren polo and navy chinos, with white sneakers.  They both appeared in high spirits, smiling, laughing and cheering as they arrived.  Another duo to arrive gave out warm hugs as they greeted their competitors, with the woman donning a simple brown T-shirt and blue jeans, while the bearded man looked right at home in a blue and red tartan shirt. Standing out in the crowd were a heavily tattooed couple, with the female contestant donning a ruffled white blouse with yellow and pink flowers tucked into the collar, which she paired with a beige tartan miniskirt.  The redhead finished her quirky ensemble with a blue bandana and black boots, while her partner styled a simple maroon T-shirt and black shorts.  The couple appeared to have matching skull tattoos on the back of their lower left legs. Locals in Brighton, Melbourne, were in uproar last year over the new Block site, fearing that production of the show would 'ruin' their suburb. Earlier last month, five run-down homes being transported onto the 2,761-square metre building site on New Street. Producers had originally bought the land for $15million in April but renovations seem to have only started recently. In photos obtained by Daily Mail Australia last month, five houses dating from the 1930s to 1960s could be seen on the building site.   The homes have been positioned with plenty of room for front gardens, spacious backyards and rear access to the properties. For the crew - and potentially the show's foremen, Keith and Dan - a separate office space has been built at the back of the plot.  Last year, it was reported that some elderly residents near the site were 'selling their homes' amid fears the show would 'ruin' their quiet street. Mrs Landes, whose unit of 36 years is separated from the site by an old fence, told Daily Mail Australia in September that the development would likely block the small amount of sun her home gets. 'My unit is already very cold and it'll block the sun,' she said.  She added: 'I'll miss the sunsets too and they'll be so much noise. Wherever they build, there will be noise, but what can you do about it?' Mrs Landes, who moved into the rented unit in 1983, said that one neighbour was planning on selling her home before any renovations begin. A second neighbour, who asked to remain anonymous, said The Block would 'change their quiet street forever' and they've known about the plans for months.  The Andrina Nursing Home was based at the address until 2014, before it was knocked down with developers hoping to build 13 luxury townhouses. After these plans eventually fell through and the site was left empty for years, Nine's MicJoy Pty Ltd purchased the spot in April 2019 for $14.96million. According to Domain, the company's application mentioned 'relocating five homes to the site' - similar to the show's 2017 season in Elsternwick. 
