cars
{ By Gillian Fisher For Mailonline   Published:  02:55, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031217/Jeremy-Meeks-prowls-catwalk-studded-black-leather-jacket-Extremedys-Milan-Fashion-Week-show.html }
He was named the 'world's hottest felon', when his mugshot went viral in 2014. And Jeremy Meeks, 35, claimed the title of 'hottest model' as he prowled the catwalk in a torso-flashing black leather jacket at Extremedy's Milan Fashion Week show on Friday. The model looked chiseled in the waist length jacket, which sported blue denim shoulder pads with black studs and bore the slogan 'Felony Pride' on the reverse. Former North Side Crips gang member Jeremy wore the jacket over a bare torso and rocked a pair of low sling dark blue jeans. The Californian native took to the runway in a number of pieces from Extremedy's Fall and Winter collection. The American fashion house's high-energy show featured an urban inner-city theme complete with cop cars and trashcans billowing fire. Jeremy went on to don an oversized black boiler suit bearing the phrase 'violation warning' in gothic white calligraphy. The male model also showcased a red and black streetwear ensemble as he took to the runway with Mac Dre's mother, Wanda Salvatto.  The statuesque model has turned his life around since being described as 'one of the most violent criminals in the Stockton area'.     He was released from prison in 2016 saying that he had found God, before quickly securing a six-figure modelling job — and ditching his wife and family when he met Topshop heiress Chloe Green. Jeremy recently hit out at rumours about his romance with Chloe Green being 'strained', confirming they are still on. Only a matter of months ago, the model was forced to deny they had split after he was photographed arm-in-arm with Romanian-born model Andreea Sasu at two events during Cannes Film Festival. Chloe and Jeremy are said to have first set their eyes on each other at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2017, where the Hot Felon was modelling for Phillip Plein. They welcomed their first child, a son named Jayden in May 2018.  Jeremy has a child with Melissa Meeks, who he was married to from 2008 to 2018.  
