cars
{ By Helen Weathers for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:09, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031135/Baroness-Newlove-husband-battered-death-family.html }
Baroness Newlove glows with pride when she talks about the achievements of her three grown-up daughters, Zoe, Danielle and Amy. Only she knows the depth of trauma they have overcome to grow into the accomplished young women they are today. They were aged 18, 15 and 12 when, in August 2007, they witnessed the brutal murder of their adored father Garry, 47, by a gang of drunken teenage thugs high on skunk cannabis. The sales manager, who had survived stomach cancer when he was 32, had rushed out of the family home in Warrington, Cheshire, to try to stop the youths vandalising his wife's car. They knocked him to the ground and kicked his head 'like a football', leaving the bloody imprint of a trainer on his forehead. He died in Helen's arms three days later, after his life-support machine was switched off. Mr Newlove's death became symbolic of 'Broken Britain' — but it was his widow and daughters who were left struggling to pick up the pieces. Zoe dropped out of university, unable to cope. Danielle didn't achieved her predicted GCSE grades, and Amy struggled to get out of bed each day to go to school. Helen was suicidal with grief over the loss of her husband of 21 years. But somehow they survived, stronger and closer than ever before. Now, nearly 13 years on, Lady Newlove smiles as she tells me that Zoe, 30, is a successful make-up artist and social media influencer. Danielle, 28, is a supervisor for a beauty brand, while Amy, 25, works in media post-production. Helen, 58, a former legal PA, was made a Conservative life peer by David Cameron in 2010 in recognition of her campaigning work against youth crime. From 2012 to 2019 she was the House of Lords Victims' Commissioner, a champion for fellow survivors of crime. More recently, she was appointed Pro Vice Chancellor of Bolton University, and is also deputy Speaker of the House of Lords. But the foundations on which the family's hard-won happiness are built are now in danger of collapse and Lady Newlove, for all her influence and friends in high places, feels powerless to prevent it happening. For this week they learnt that for the past 18 months, one of the youths responsible for Garry's death, Jordan Cunliffe, now 28, has been held at an open prison in preparation for his imminent release on parole. Unbeknown to Lady Newlove, he has been free to wander the streets of Warrington, where the family, including the girls' 87-year-old grandmother, still live. Allowed out to work and visit his own family unsupervised at weekends, he could have walked past them in the street or bumped into them in a shop. No one had told them this was happening. In an exclusive interview, Lady Newlove says: 'It feels like an insult and a mockery for the Parole Board to allow Cunliffe to return to Warrington and not even consider the impact on us, his victims. My daughters are terrified of bumping into one of the men who took their father away from them. 'The mental scars from seeing their father kicked to death on our doorstep have never fully healed, and now those scars have been ripped open. My girls are in pieces. Yet again, we are made to feel Garry's life wasn't worth anything. 'As a mother, even though my daughters are now young women, I want to wrap them in cotton wool and protect them — and I am absolutely livid that I can't. 'There are people who will think that, because I was Victims' Commissioner, I'd get gold-star treatment from our criminal justice system. Well, I can categorically say that I haven't.' In 2008, Adam Swellings, 19; Stephen Sorton, 17; and Jordan Cunliffe, 16, were jailed for life after being found guilty of Mr Newlove's murder. Two youths aged 15 and 17 were acquitted. Zoe, Danielle and Amy bravely gave evidence at their trial at Chester Crown Court, enduring cross-examination from the defendants' separate barristers while the teenagers who killed their father laughed in the dock. Twelve years on, the Newloves understand that the Parole Board has recommended Sorton's release and he has been sent to an open prison. Swellings will be eligible for parole in five years — and Cunliffe could be free in weeks. 'We've been told he will have to wear an electronic tag for six months after his release on life licence and will go into temporary accommodation,' says Lady Newlove. 'But after that, how will anyone ever know where he goes unless he tells them?' Lady Newlove is calling for a Victims' Law to overhaul the parole system and redress what she sees as an unfair imbalance between the legal rights of offenders and those of their victims. There was a review of Parole Board procedures in 2018 after the public outcry that followed the initial decision to allow notorious serial sex offender John Worboys — the black cab rapist — early release from his life sentence, much to his many victims' horror. It led to the Ministry of Justice introducing 'greater transparency' in the parole process, to ensure that victims are kept informed of key decisions — and offered the chance to make a Victim Personal Statement at hearings, and to ask for certain conditions to the offender's licence once they are released, such as where they live. Lady Newlove would like to take these changes further and introduce a Victims' Advocate Unit with access to legal aid — and for part of lawyers' training to include gaining an understanding of how traumatic the legal process is for victims; that they are not just a case number. 'All we want as victims is an even playing field,' she says. 'We can read a statement at a Parole Board hearing, but after that we're not allowed to know anything. 'You can't ask questions and have to leave the room the second you reach the final full stop of your statement. We can request conditions and exclusion zones but no one tells you whether they have been granted. 'Victims are never told the reasons why an offender has been released on parole, and many are left feeling very frightened and unprotected. 'I understand that rehabilitated prisoners have to be protected from possible revenge attacks, but it's an insult to treat all victims as if they were potential vigilantes. What about our human rights? At sentencing, Swellings was given a minimum tariff of 17 years, Sorton 15 years (reduced to 13 and then 12 on appeal), and Cunliffe 12 years. The court heard that the three renowned troublemakers were regularly seen drinking, vandalising cars and property, and intimidating anyone who dared to confront them. Swellings had at least 11 previous convictions including assault, battery and restraining order breaches, and had been arrested a week earlier for punching a man who caught the gang damaging his car. Remanded in custody, he was bailed by magistrates on the morning of the day Garry Newlove was killed. Over the years, Lady Newlove, who believes a life sentence should mean life, has attended almost every one of the defendants' appeals against conviction or sentence, in her determination to keep them behind bars. She attended Cunliffe's first Parole Board hearing in 2018 — before he was moved to an open prison — but only discovered it was near Warrington last year. Lady Newlove knows Sorton has also been moved to an open prison in preparation for release, but has no idea where. He could soon be walking around Warrington too, as far as she knows. 'My daughters might not recognise them now — but having attended their hearings, I would,' she says. 'They look like older, chunkier versions of the teenagers who killed my husband. They never look at me, they keep their heads down or look straight ahead. They have never asked to meet me, written or shown remorse, not that I could accept it. 'I'm sorry, but I can never forgive them for what they did. To see them laughing and joking in the dock, with the highest barristers in the land defending each of them, and to know my daughters had to give evidence... no. I can't forgive.' Nor can she bear the thought of her daughters coming face to face with one of them. The events of August 12, 2007 — the day Lady Newlove 'woke up a wife and went to bed a widow' — are still fresh in her mind. Helen was unwell and lying upstairs in bed, watching Midsomer Murders, when she heard the sound of cars being vandalised outside and asked Garry to go out and take a look Before she could call him back, having thought twice about it, Garry had dashed out barefoot in his pyjama bottoms and vest to tell the youths politely, but firmly, to stop. 'I remember going down the stairs, struggling to get my sweatshirt over my head, and seeing Amy pass out and collapse in the hallway,' she says. 'In the road, a gentleman grabbed me, saying, 'Don't look over there' — but I did, and saw Garry lifeless on the ground. Zoe was screaming, 'Mum, don't come near.' 'She had tried to pull the teenagers off her dad and was covered in blood. Her then boyfriend, Tom, was trying to resuscitate Garry. 'Then it's just a blur. Screaming, sirens, an ambulance coming down the road, neighbours looking after me, phoning my mum. 'Danielle got into the ambulance with her dad to give names, but then Garry flatlined and they had to shut the doors on us to work on him and rush him to hospital.' Mr Newlove had suffered a devastating bleed on the brain, from which doctors told Helen there would be no recovery. She was advised to bring their daughters in to say their last goodbyes. 'The girls were just devastated. Amy looked at her dad and said, 'Why aren't his eyes open?' I told her the drugs had made him go to sleep but he could still hear her. She fled the room sobbing.' The following day, the doctors asked for Helen's permission to turn Garry's life support off. 'It was so quick. I lay on his chest, feeling it go up and down, then suddenly it stopped.' Overnight, their lives changed. 'I'm really glad we were very close as a family before this happened,' Lady Newlove says, 'but it has been a rollercoaster journey. 'The girls lost their father, their home, their education and their innocence. They were all left with anxiety issues and still suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder to this day. 'We had to sell the house because the girls didn't feel safe there and couldn't sleep at night. We moved three times before we settled in a new area. I'd go to bed with Garry's ashes not wanting to wake up in the morning. 'The only thing that stopped me was knowing I couldn't leave my children orphaned after all they'd been through, so every morning I'd put on a brave face. 'But it was very difficult to see my girls go down and down, asking, 'What's the point?' They were like zombies. A lot of their friends drifted away and Amy was bullied at school. 'Amy and Danielle were very reactive and angry, going through ordinary teenage emotions while trying to cope with their dad's murder, and at times I felt like their emotional punchbag. 'Zoe was an A-star student ready to go to university when her dad died. She only lasted six months. 'She then went to live in Ibiza with friends and has only recently recognised that she was running away from what had happened.' With their mother's support, all three girls eventually flourished —Amy graduated from Huddersfield University in 2015 — but it breaks their mother's heart that they have forever lost the carefree happiness they shared with their father. 'You always have it in your head, 'What if I'd not asked him to go out that night',' she says. 'The girls say, 'What if I'd grabbed his T-shirt, Mum, and stopped him'. It's like a scab that never heals. 'On the anniversary of Garry's death, we all like to meet up but we don't turn it into a ritual because that's not healthy. We have all compartmentalised it. We all say 'we're fine' but really we're not, and with this latest news we feel we are back to square one. 'My therapy has always been to keep busy and try to make something positive from something tragic. I hope Garry would have been proud of me, but I can't stop worrying about our girls. 'I would like people to understand that the journey never ends. The story doesn't stop after the trial finishes. You may get some solace while these people are locked up, but the system still works in the favour of the offender at every juncture. 'People may say they deserve a second chance. When they have murdered someone? Knife crime is at its highest level. Britain is still broken,' she says. 'My daughters truly believed prison was a punishment, not a rehab centre. They are very angry, scared and truly broken again to think they might see those men again, one day, in Warrington. 'As my youngest said to me just the other day: 'What does Dad's life mean to anybody?' ' n Lady Newlove will be giving an exclusive interview to ITV's Good Morning Britain on Monday. 
