{ By Carly Stern For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:03, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8026187/Parents-share-photos-kids-messes-Kim-Kardashian-showed-childrens-neat-playroom.html }
Last week, Kim Kardashian gave her 160 million Instagram followers a behind-the-scenes look at her children's playroom — and fans were shocked to see how incredibly neat and orderly it is. The 39-year-old and her third husband Kanye West share daughters North, six, and Chicago, two, as well as sons Saint, four, and Psalm, nine months — and it seems that either the four children are sticklers for putting their toys away, or Kim and Kanye have a meticulous cleaning staff. Most parents, though, don't have a whole household staff to stash away stray Tonka Trucks and Barbies, and quite a few have responded to Kim's mini tour with photos of their own messy playrooms. Kim had shown off the playroom on February 12, filming video of the impeccable white space with hardwood floors and white walls. Each of the toys are nearly organized by type, line up in neat rows with similar items — cars and stuffed animals over here, musical instruments over there. Smaller items are even divvied up into labeled baskets, with bins for crayons, stamps, and Legos organized by color. Even the play kitchen is set up like a real kitchen, with a bin for faux produce and another one for plastic kitchen tools. Days later, Ellen DeGeneres took to social media to get a response. 'Is your “playroom” messier than @KimKardashian’s? I want to see it!' she wrote. The responses poured in, with dozens of parents sharing images of their kids' playrooms — or their living rooms, dens, kitchens, and anywhere else that toys spill into. 'What's a "playroom"?' joked Lisa Wittmier. 'If by “playroom” you mean living room. Then Yes. Way messier,' added Brooke Speckman.  'Back seat of my car is messier than that playroom,' wrote Kayleen Lanyon.  'Clearly we are not “Keeping Up with the Kardashians,"' quipped Ohio mom Kate Motsinger, whose Facebook post earned 2,500 likes. More and more have shared images of messy rooms — which they've surely tried to keep clean but simply don't have enough time to keep up. Later, Ellen shared some of the highlights on her show.  Speaking about Kim's kids' playrooms, she said that it was 'totally normal if you live inside of a super clean FAO Schwarz.' She then flipped through some fan-submitted images, inspired groans and laughter from her audience.  'Thank you for posting those. They make me so happy I don't have kids,' Ellen said.   
