{ By Carly Bass and Eve Buckland For Mailonline   Published:  02:57, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8025709/Inside-Lewis-Capaldis-parents-home-singer-lives-despite-making-millions.html }
He is the singer-songwriter taking the music industry by storm and is estimated to have a net worth of £8million.  But despite his rapid road to stardom, Lewis Capaldi still happily lives at home with his parents in Bathgate, Scotland, and has no future plans of parting with his childhood stomping ground. In a video posted on his YouTube account, the Someone Like You hit maker, 23, offered a glimpse inside the family home that he shares with his mum Carol, a nurse, and fishmonger dad Mark.   The video, titled Becoming Lewis Capaldi, offers fans the chance to get to know the man behind the fame - and he revealed the bedroom he's had since he was 10-years-old.  His bedroom - which features a turntable of eccentric sunglasses front and centre -  is complete with blue curtains, model cars and New York wallpaper covering the walls.  Laying on the bed where he spent hours writing songs, the star joked: 'I've had a lot of good times in between these very sheets. I got pretty hot and sweaty some nights.  'There was one particular time, I probably shouldn't be saying this, but I watched the entire [collection] of Lord of the Rings back to back  - and I was in here for days. 'I didn't open any windows - I was locked in here constantly.' Speaking candidly, the star admitted to not thinking fame has changed him in any way.  And the bedroom tour revealed Lewis still has the same desk from his childhood in one corner of the room, with a vanity mirror on the wall above, along with a poster-covered cupboard for his tracksuits.  Lewis hasn't been afraid to show his roots, even posting snaps of his home on Instagram.  In one photo, the star could be seen posing for a mirror selfie, surrounded by the lime green walls in what appeared to be another bedroom.  The walls were decorated with a collage of family photos,  while the floors were covered in plush grey carpets.  Beyond the bedrooms, the star toured the the modern kitchen, which featured sleek chrome appliances and white laminated cabinetry.  Speaking on why he still lives at home, the star admitted that he'd rather spend his money on food than rent.    Speaking to the Daily Star, Lewis said: 'All I spend my money on is food because I can't help stuffing my face. I am splurging on food and it shows, it's showing on my gut, my gut is expanding every day.'  According to The Sun, Lewis was previously estimated to have had a net worth of almost £8 million by Forbes, but the singer denied earning such an amount.  On his Instagram account last year, the singing sensation hilariously mocked the reports that stated he's net worth was sitting at close to US $10 million.   In a comic rage, he said: 'It says according to Forbes and Wikipedia, Lewis Capaldi's estimated net worth is $10 million. 'I have less than £200 in my bank right now so who the f*** has my $10 million.' He continued: 'Are you telling I'm kicking about in the same clothes I've worn for the last six months and there's $10 million sitting about somewhere, where is it? 'I still live with my mum and dad, I've been in the same bedroom since I was 12-years-old and there's apparently $10 million sitting there? 'If the tax man sees that, I'm f****d'.' More recently, Lewis took home his first two Brit Awards on Tuesday evening Best Song and Best New Artist for his gut wrenching, heartfelt hit Someone You Love. During the awards show, Lewis left fans in hysterics when he revealed to the audience the true inspiration behind his award-winning song Someone You Loved was not Love Island contestant Paige Turley but instead his late Grandmother.  While poking fun at his ex, the self professed 'Scottish Beyonce' said: 'Thanks very much for this. Contrary to popular belief, a lot of people think this song is about my ex girlfriend who you can now see every night on Love Island... 'But it is actually about my grandmother who has sadly passed away a few years ago. And I hope to god ITV don't contact her to go on a reality TV show.' The star ended his bizarre acceptance speech saying: 'And thanks for my grandmother for dying!' 
