{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:24, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8026495/Tesla-owner-reveals-cars-futuristic-door-handles-painfully-snapping-NAILS.html }
A Tesla owner has a bone to pick with Elon Musk after the retractable door handles on her electric car snapped off her long, manicured nail not once, but twice.  Marc D'Amelio, the father of TikTok stars Charli and Dixie D'Amelio, filmed his wife Heidi's anger over her broken nail just seconds after it snapped off, with her revealing it actually got stuck in the crevice in the door.  'For the second time, Tesla, I tried to open the door, and like a guillotine, the door handle took my nail off and it hurts so bad,' Heid, 48, says as she holds up her finger to in the TikTok video.  While Charli, 15, laughs in the background, Dixie, 18, is still sitting in the front seat of the car when her mother points to her broken nail that is wedged in the door handle.  'Look at it in there. Look at it,' Heidi says. 'Look at my nails, and look at my nail in there.' She temporarily forgets the pain in her finger when she realizes her broken nail is stuck in the car door handle and it will no longer retract.  'Hold on. How do you even get this out? Look, I jammed it,' she tells her husband. 'Wait, it's stuck in there.' Heidi is clearly frustrated, but Marc, 51, can't resist making light of the situation.  'Tell Elon Musk he owes you a manicure,' he joked.  'I'm so aggravated right now,' Heidi gripes. 'It hurts so much.'  Marc seemed to be fully aware that there are far worse problems to have.   'First world problems. Tesla manicure,' he captioned the clip.  Some commenters felt Heidi's pain, with one fan writing: 'Dang, Elon! That is NOT a feature we are looking for in our cars. Stick to what you know, brow — we got clippers for that. Ouch! That's painful.' Others, however, were less sympathetic and chalked it up to 'rich people problems.' 'Sounds like SUCH a problem,' one person wrote, while another added: 'That's not Tesla's fault.'  'Never would happen with my Toyota,' someone else joked.  'If only you had a Honda Civic,' a fellow TikTok user agreed.  A few people even called her 'Karen,' a name that has become synonymous with a nagging, entitled woman who always wants to speak to the manager.   'She seems like a Karen?' one person wrote. Another pointed out: 'She has the "I wanna see the manager" hair.' The Connecticut-based family has seen a swift rise to fame after Charli became a TikTok star seemingly overnight.    The talented stage dancer has amassed more than 28 million followers since she joined the video-sharing platform in June 2019.  Thanks to her rising profile, her family has also come into the spotlight. Her sister, Dixie, currently boasts 11.4 million TikTok followers, while Marc and Heidi have 2.4 million and 1.5 million, respectively.   
