{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  23:19, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8026893/Stylish-Evoque-luxe-fashion-statement.html }
Charles Darwin would be rolling in his grave. The theory of evolution has been turned on its head. I mean, since when did the smallest and youngest member of a family become the one upon whom all other genetic family traits will be based. None of this "she's got granny's nose" or "he's a ranga just like his uncle Dan". Instead, this "baby" has passed on the family resemblance to its bigger, more famous siblings. So it is with Range Rover's alluring little SUV, the Evoque. The smallest and most urbane member of the world's best-known range of off-roaders - cars like the Range Rover Sport, Land Rover Discovery and the mighty Range Rover Vogue - have all, in recent years, been created in the Evoque's likeness. As a model that has clocked up well over 700,000 global sales in its decade on the market, it's no surprise the Evoque has influenced the design of every Land Rover product since it was unveiled in 2010. Nearly 17,000 of those sales have been in Australia, where Range Rover recently pulled the covers off an all-new, second-generation Evoque. Inevitably, its success has spawned more rivals trying to lure customers who want an SUV that would look almost as good on a catwalk as it would a driveway. So predictably this new model has evolved, rather than undergone a major transformation. After all, the Evoque has been quite the trend-setter in this small, premium SUV segment for most of its life. What other SUV, for instance, would have released a (somewhat ill-advised) soft-top convertible version? And what other marque, for that matter, would have marketed a special edition designed and decorated by Posh Spice, Victoria Beckham. So it's good to know that, in its second incarnation, the Evoque continues to keep good company. The new model's London release was attended by director Guy Ritchie and actors Taron Egerton and Natalie Dormer (from the Hunger Games). Posh and Becks must have been busy. Already Range Rover has announced "collaborations" with fashion house Mulberry, Swiss watch brand Zenith and premium audio company Master & Dynamic. Yes, this little car remains as much a fashion statement as it is an excellent way to get around. There's absolutely no doubt that this new Evoque has inherited much of its DNA from the original, ground-breaking model. The family resemblance is obvious, even with the nicely-balanced tweaks that the Range Rover stylists have added. The company insists that just one component - the door hinges - has been carried over from the previous model. Yet many would struggle to tell the two versions apart. Suffice to say that the new iteration has addressed many of the first model's weaknesses - with more interior space, upgraded technology (including an available mild-hybrid variant), a new chassis for better ride and handling, and surprising off-road capability. The Evoque will be offered with a choice of six four-cylinder engines (equally split between petrol and diesel, with varying outputs), and seven trim levels, each available with the company's R-Dynamic trim. Prices will range from an accessible $62,670 up to an imposing $94,290 for the flagship HSE D240 R-Dynamic. We tested two variants - the diesel-powered D180S (from $67,040) and the turbocharged petrol R-Dynamic S ($65,650 plus extras), which in many ways were chalk and cheese. It's curious that two cars with virtually the same model designation can differ so greatly. The petrol variant (147kW, 320Nm) was the mechanical stand-out with its brisk, responsive performance. But the turbo-diesel D180 S (132kW, 430Nm), while less engaging on the road, boasted interior styling that put its sibling to shame. Most notably, that included the same, gorgeous "three-screen" configuration that we've previously admired in the bigger RR Velar; the R Dynamic package got a more conventional analogue instrument display, smaller touch screen and less impressive panel-style controls for Terrain Response and climate control functions. It's still good, but I'd take some convincing to choose it over the fully optioned model, which is beautiful and functional at the same time. In both cases, the cockpit delivers a very stylish, premium feel, particularly in the higher-spec format, with three high-resolution colour video screens sharing cabin management and driver information duties - with finger-touch adjustment of everything from the navigation and audio settings through to the suspension and terrain response system. We've previously written in glowing terms about Land Rover's Ingenium powerplants - particularly the diesels - yet despite its impressive outputs the oil-burning variant of the Evoque felt just a touch sluggish. While both models share a silky nine-speed auto, it seemed to align much better with the petrol vehicle's performance "sweet spot", resulting in superior acceleration figures. Otherwise there was very little to complain about inside this classy little urban SUV. The styling makeover has delivered an interior that looks modern, luxurious and functional all at once with supple leather, glossy hard surfaces and the high-tech halo provided by those dominant display and functionality screens. The Evoque's ride also felt a little more sure-footed than in previous models. All, of course, are qualities we've come to expect from this grand old British brand. Thanks, no doubt, to the genetic influence of the baby of the family. RANGE ROVER EVOQUE HOW BIG? A medium-sized premium SUV, it delivers improved interior space than its predecessor, particularly in the rear seats. Cargo space is good for such a sleek machine. HOW FAST? The turbocharged petrol was the pick here, reaching the speed limit in 8.5 seconds. There's more performance available further up the model line. HOW THIRSTY? The D180 diesel manages an impressive 5.8L/100km. HOW MUCH? Prices start from $62-grand. Our tested models hit the road at $65,650 (petrol) and $67,040 (diesel). 
