{ By Daniel Martin for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:01, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8026547/Priti-Patels-fury-official-blocking-police-eco-mob-crackdown.html }
Priti Patel fell out with Home Office officials after she accused them of dragging their feet over tougher action against eco-warrriors, it emerged last night. The Home Secretary wanted them to look into ways to change police powers to stop protesters bringing cities to a standstill, a Government source said. But she felt they were raising objections to reforms which could have helped the police tackle organisations such as Extinction Rebellion. It comes just days after police stood by when the protest group ripped up the lawn outside a Cambridge college. It is thought that Miss Patel wants to include the new measures in the Police Powers and Protection Bill expected to be brought to Parliament in the summer. They would not include the use of force against peaceful protesters, but would be designed to ensure individuals can get to work and not see their businesses forced to shut. It emerged yesterday that Miss Patel had tried to move her most senior civil servant in the Home Office, permanent secretary Sir Philip Rutman, following ‘genuine disagreements’ between the pair. But sources denied claims that she had ‘bullied and belittled’ officials, or that she had made unreasonable demands or created an ‘atmosphere of fear’. And the Home Office said ‘no formal complaints’ had been made. On Tuesday police came under fire for failing to stop a group of eco-warriors as they ripped up the lawn outside Trinity College in Cambridge. That officers let the protest continue undisrupted without making arrests was described as ‘an affront not only to the law-abiding public but to democracy itself’. At the present there is little police can do to tackle XR until they actually start their protest. Miss Patel is understood to have asked officials to draw up plans to change the law to allow the police to intervene earlier. For example, XR protesters like to chain themselves to cars. The Home Secretary wanted to know if there was a way the police could intervene if they see people carrying chains, padlocks and XR placards – such as by confiscating the items. Similarly, she wanted to know whether police could intervene to stop XR protesters carrying concrete blocks. Officials were said to have dragged their feet in coming up with proposals. A Government source said there was no suggestion that force could be used against peaceful protesters. Yesterday allies defended Miss Patel over claims that she bullied officials. Business minister Nadhim Zahawi insisted Miss Patel was ‘utterly professional’ and ‘works day and night’. The Home Secretary sought to oust Sir Philip Rutnam, and The Times reported that he has raised concerns with the Cabinet Office about her. The newspaper said matters came to a head last week when a senior official collapsed following an all-night effort to reverse a High Court ruling barring the deportation of 25 foreign criminals to Jamaica.  At a meeting the following morning he was confronted by the Home Secretary, who demanded to know why the department had failed to reverse the ruling. He reportedly fell ill later at another meeting and was taken to hospital, where he was found to have a sodium deficiency. Mr Zahawi told LBC: ‘I’ve known Priti for 25 years, she’s utterly professional, works night and day to deliver for the country and her constituents.’ Pushed again on whether Miss Patel is a bully, Mr Zahawi said: ‘No, I don’t think she is at all. I’ve worked with Priti on several campaigns, she is a brilliant, collegiate team player.’ A Home Office spokesman said: ‘We have not received any formal complaints and we take the welfare of our staff extremely seriously.’ A Government source said: ‘She is a demanding boss but this does not cross the line into bullying or unreasonable action.’ An ally of Miss Patel told The Times: ‘The Home Office is dysfunctional and the current permanent secretary had presided over a sacking of a home secretary (Amber Rudd) and accidental deportations. If this were any other environment Philip Rutnam would not only be sacked he’d be denied a pension.’ A Home Office source told the newspaper: ‘Sir Philip and (she) have fundamental disagreements about the rule of law. He’s committed and she isn’t.She’s belittled him and caused consternation.’ Dave Penman, general secretary of the FDA union which represents senior civil servants, said staff at the Home Office were ‘working flat out’. ‘Putting undue pressure on committed public servants that are already overstretched does not make for good government and will do this administration no favours in delivering its policy priorities,’ he added. ‘Ministers have to recognise the consequences of their behaviour.’    
