{ By Frances Mulraney For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:44, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8025843/A-high-slow-speed-getaway-Pennsylvania-man-68-leads-cops-20mph-chase-taking-marijuana.html }
A 68-year-old man in Pennsylvania was jailed and faces DUI charges after dragging police cars on a 15-mile low-speed chase while he was driving high on marijuana.  Dorie Adams, from Port Matilda, was jailed on Thursday, February 13, after Bellafonte police said he led officers on a 20mph joyride. Adams' vehicle was only stopped once police activated spike strips to bring an end to the chase. By the time it concluded, seven police vehicles were employed in the pursuit.   Police claim an officer attempted to stop Adams as he was driving along the 200 block of West High Street at around 2.50 pm.  Adams allegedly refused to stop and continued to North Water Street and state Route 144 before reaching Milesburg.   When the spike stripes eventually brought him to a halt, police quote Adams as saying: 'All this just for a DUI and smoking a little marijuana. I hope you are happy with yourself.'  He stands accused of several traffic violations, including passing a police officer's vehicle that had its lights and sirens activated.  In total, Adams was charged with one felony count of fleeing an officer, two misdemeanor counts of DUI and five summary traffic citations.   'When we get into these situations, you have to weigh the reward of catching him,' Bellefonte police Chief Shawn Weaver told CentreDaily.com.  'We knew who he was, so if it would have got to the point where it was unsafe, we would have definitely called the pursuit off. ... But we were pretty confident that if he continued on the road he was going to cause an accident.' Adams did not post bail and is currently detained at the Centre County Correctional Facility.  He attended his preliminary hearing in Center County court on Wednesday.   Just last week, the 68-year-old faced further problems when he was charged in a separate marijuana possession case.  
