cars
{ By Raven Saunt For Mailonline   Published:  18:14, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8025735/Sainsburys-driver-delivers-random-act-kindness-protect-strangers-car.html }
A delivery driver was caught on camera protecting a stranger's car from the aftermath of Storm Dennis using cardboard boxes.  CCTV footage recorded the unnamed Sainsbury's worker in Luton, Bedfordshire.  The Good Samaritan spotted the vehicle being battered by a loose fence panel, which had been knocked over by the fierce winds, before he decided to intervene. In the video, two cars can be seen parked on the driveway.  The wooden fence on the left-hand side of the screen is leaning up against the car as the delivery driver, wearing his Sainsbury's uniform and a hat, walks over to inspect it. He realises that the car's paintwork is at risk of being seriously damaged by the loose panel and quickly scrambles to find a solution. He opens the homeowner's recycling bin and lifts out a cardboard box. The driver gently tilts the fence backwards and wedges the packaging between the panel and the car. He slowly lets go of the fence as he checks whether it will hold. He positions a second box for extra protection before closing the lid of the recycling bin and walking away, which is where the video ends. The owner of the car, Kin Chan, returned home and was touched to discover the random act of kindness. He later shared the CCTV on social media and praised the member of staff for 'making his day'.  He wrote: 'To the delivery driver that delivered to my neighbours today, I would like to say a massive thank you for what you have done for me today.  'After seeing that the strong wind had blown my fence on to my car, he went above and beyond to place a couple of boxes between my car and the fence to stop any dents caused from the heavy fence post to the car.  'To you sir, with your blue hat and gloves delivering in the LU2 area, I thank you for your act of kindness even though I was not one of your delivery clients.  'You have truly made my day when I came home that evening.'  Impressed social media users were also quick to comment on the clip. One, Mary George, wrote: 'Not all heroes wear capes. What an awesome person.'  Another, Donna Mosley, added: 'What a lovely person. Sainsbury's I hope you reward him.' Sainsbury's also responded to Mr Chan's post and said: 'I am pleased to read your comment about one of our drivers and what they have done for you and would love to pass this over to their manager.'  
