{ By Faith Ridler For Mailonline   Published:  10:03, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8024015/Student-able-fund-university-course-thanks-FIVE-sugar-daddies.html }
A university student has been able to fund her studies thanks to five sugar daddies - who have treated her to dresses, meals, and even paid her rent. Gracie Adams, 19, from Belfast, is in the first year of her psychology degree at the University of Lincoln and said she was only able to 'get through student life' after signing up to sugar dating site, Seeking Arrangements. Though she has been treated to new clothes and shoes - and is tipped upwards of £150 per date - Gracie decided to use her sugar dating to help her pay off her £30,000 student debt.   On a date with one of her sugar daddies, the teenager is often treated to a dinner and drinks - which could cost upwards of £100. Her sugar daddies usually request an outfit for her to purchase ahead of the date, which is on average a further £100, and Gracie's dates will also often leave her an additional tip in the region of £150. Juggling studying, a social life and being a sugar baby, Gracie aims for at least one date a month in order to pay her bills. Gracie said: 'I first signed up to Seeking Arrangements when I was nearly 18 and wasn't thinking of seriously committing to the sugar baby life. 'But when I was finishing sixth form and moving to university, I found that loads of women at university had signed up and had very positive experiences. 'It helped them get through student life, keep up with rent payments and have cars at university. 'Using Seeking Arrangements helped me become more confident in talking to men online and what to look out for. You can have some men lying about themselves and what they do, which is my biggest precaution and worry.' Despite her worries, Gracie went on to meet five sugar daddies, and she now sees at least three of them on a regular basis. But the student insists all her relationships are platonic, and she has been sure to been completely open with both her family and boyfriend about her sugar relationships. Gracie said: 'I asked my boyfriend for his opinion and if he would be okay if I started being more serious about it. 'He wanted to know what I'd be doing with the sugar daddies, in terms of dates, and messaging etc. 'I told him that I would only be interested in starting platonic relationships and mentorships. INITIAL DINNER: £80 DRINKS: £20+ TIP: £150+ NEW DRESS: £50+ NEW SHOES: £50+ 'He understood that I was struggling with money and is very supportive of me and the relationships I build on Seeking Arrangements. 'My family and I are very open and loving, so I was able to tell them about how I stay on top of things financially, while at university without having to worry about any judgments from my family. 'When I first told them they took the news with humour and told me to "crack on", but of course they can sometimes worry about my safety online.'  Gracie can rake in over £300 per date, including gifts of new dresses and shoes. She added: 'The best date I ever had was in the summer where we had dinner in a rooftop bar where we could see the sun set. 'It was a beautiful experience and one I could never forget after the meal, we had some drinks and got to know more about each other. 'At the end of the date he made sure I got home safe and sent me £150 on top of paying for my food and drinks.' 
