{ By Associated Press   Published:  08:12, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8023875/2-Russians-cruise-ship-diagnosed-virus.html }
NOVI SANZHARY, Ukraine (AP) - Ukraine's effort to quarantine more than 70 people evacuated from China over the new virus outbreak plunged into chaos Thursday as local residents opposing the move hurled stones at the evacuees and clashed with police. Officials deplored the violence and the country's health minister pledged to share evacuees' quarantine for two weeks in a bid to reassure protesters who fear they'll be infected. Buses carrying evacuees were finally able to reach the designated place of quarantine after hours of clashes. The masked evacuees, exhausted by the long journey, were peeking through bus windows as they drove slowly under a heavy police escort. Stones shattered a window in one of the buses, but the evacuees appeared unhurt. Since the early morning, several hundred residents of the village of Novi Sanzhary in Ukraine's central Poltava region had cut the road to a sanitarium intended to host the evacuees, fearing they could become infected. Demonstrators, some of whom appeared drunk, put up road blocks, burned tires and clashed with riot police who moved to clear access. One protester tried to ram police lines with his car. Nine police officers and one civilian were hospitalized, the regional police said in a statement. A protester, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, kindles a fire outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Ukrainian police said 24 protesters were detained. Interior Minister Arsen Avakov, who personally visited the site to try to calm the crowd, said he was shocked by the aggression. "What we saw was shameful," he said in televised remarks. "It was one of the biggest disappointments in my life." Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy weighed in, saying the protests showed "not the best side of our character." He tried to reassure people that the quarantined evacuees wouldn't pose any danger to local residents. In a statement published on his Facebook page, Zelenskiy said the people evacuated from China are healthy and will live in a closed medical center run by the National Guard in the village as a precaution. "In the next two weeks it will probably be the most guarded facility in the country," Zelenskiy said. Ukraine's health minister, Zoryana Skaletska, said she would join the evacuees in quarantine for two weeks to help assuage villagers' concerns. She urged residents to show sympathy and support for the evacuees and emphasized that the quarantine facility is in full conformity with international standards. "I was shocked by the panic, rejection, negative feelings and aggression," she said. "It was even a greater shock for the people who were evacuated from China." But municipal legislators in the village vowed to continue opposing the evacuation, saying that the sanitarium's sewage system is linked to the one in the village and ends up in a nearby wastewater facility. "We can't allow putting the health and life of local residents at risk, and demand that top officials take urgent moves to prevent people from China from being put here," they said in a statement. Amid the clashes between local residents and police, Ukraine's Prime Minister Oleksiy Honcharuk said he will immediately fly to the site to personally oversee things. In the early hours of Thursday, a plane with 45 Ukrainians and 27 foreign nationals took off from Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak that has infected more than 75,000 people worldwid e and killed over 2,100. Those evacuated included people from Belarus, Kazakhstan, Argentina, Ecuador, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Panama and other countries. Argentina's Foreign Ministry in a statement thanked Ukraine for its "generosity" and China for its collaboration. The plane stopped in Kazakhstan to drop off Kazakh passengers. Later, it sought to land in Kharkiv, a city in northeastern Ukraine, but could not due to bad weather conditions. Instead it flew to Kyiv to refuel, and eventually arrived in Kharkiv. Also Thursday, the Russian Embassy in Japan said that two more Russians aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship quarantined in Japan have been diagnosed with the virus. That raises to three the number of Russians on the ship confirmed to have the virus. The two will be transferred to a hospital in Japan for treatment, according to the embassy. In Slovenia, authorities said two of six Slovenian citizens who were on the cruise ship have been hospitalized in Japan after testing positive for the virus. The four others have tested negative. Two of them have arrived back in Slovenia and will be quarantined at home for two weeks. The Diamond Princess has been docked in the Yokohama port near Tokyo since Feb. 4, when 10 people on board tested positive for the virus. So far 621 cases of the disease, which has been named COVID-19, have been confirmed among the the Diamond Princess's original 3,711 people on board. Russia so far has reported only two cases of the disease on its soil. Two Chinese nationals diagnosed with the virus and hospitalized in two different regions of Siberia in late January have recovered and have been released from hospitals. ___ Associated Press writer Dmytro Vlasov reported this sotyr in Novi Sanzhary and AP writer Yuras Karmanau reported from Minsk, Belarus. AP writers Daria Litvinova and Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow contributed to this report. ___ See more AP coverage of the virus outbreak at https://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak Ukrainian passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, look though a bus window outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Ukrainian riot police prepare to push back protesters, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) A Ukrainian riot police officer detains a protester, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Protesters help another protester, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Ukrainian riot police detain a protester, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Protesters, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, speak to Ukrainian riot police blocking the road outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Ukrainian riot police detain a protester, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Ukrainian riot police run to push protesters, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Ukrainian riot police gather to block protesters who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, speak to Ukrainian riot police blocking the road outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Protesters, who planned to stop buses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, speak to Ukrainian riot police blocking the road outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Protesters, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, speak to Ukrainian riot police blocking the road outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Protesters, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, speak to Ukrainian riot police blocking the road outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Medics stand next tp Ukrainian police gathing to block protesters who planned to stop busses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany village, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo) Ukrainian police gather to block protesters who planed to stop busses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany village, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo) A motorcade with police cars and busses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, leave the the gate upon their landing at airport outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Ukraine's effort to evacuate more than 70 people from China due to the outbreak of the new COVID-19 virus was delayed because of bad weather as evacuees travel to a hospital where they are expected to be quarantined. (AP Photo/Igor Chekachkov) A masked driver is seen through a bus window carrying passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, leave the the gate upon their landing at airport outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Ukraine's effort to evacuate more than 70 people from China due to the outbreak of the new COVID-19 virus was delayed because of bad weather as evacuees travel to a hospital where they are expected to be quarantined. (AP Photo/Igor Chekachkov) The Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, lands at airport outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. The plane carrying evacuees from Wuhan, including over 45 Ukrainians and a number of foreign passengers landed ahead of a 14-day quarantine in the country. (AP Photo/Igor Chekachkov) Busses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, leave the the gate upon their landing at airport outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Ukraine's effort to evacuate more than 70 people from China due to the outbreak of the new COVID-19 virus was delayed because of bad weather as evacuees travel to a hospital where they are expected to be quarantined. (AP Photo/Igor Chekachkov) A motorcade with police cars and busses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, leave the the gate upon their landing at airport outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Ukraine's effort to evacuate more than 70 people from China due to the outbreak of the new COVID-19 virus was delayed because of bad weather as evacuees travel to a hospital where they are expected to be quarantined. (AP Photo/Igor Chekachkov) Ukrainian police officers prepare to secure an area next to busses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, upon their landing at airport outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Ukraine's effort to evacuate more than 70 people from China due to the outbreak of the new COVID-19 virus was delayed because of bad weather as evacuees travel to a hospital where they are expected to be quarantined. (AP Photo/Igor Chekachkov) Busses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, leave the the gate upon their landing at airport outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Ukraine's effort to evacuate more than 70 people from China due to the outbreak of the new COVID-19 virus was delayed because of bad weather as evacuees travel to a hospital where they are expected to be quarantined. (AP Photo/Igor Chekachkov) In this handout photo provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office, A group of medical personnel stands ready at the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, lands at Borispil international airport outside Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. The plane carrying evacuees from Wuhan, including over 45 Ukrainians and a number of foreign passengers landed ahead of a 14-day quarantine in the country. (Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP) In this handout photo provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office, A group of medical personnel stand ready at the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, lands at Borispil international airport outside Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. The plane carrying evacuees from Wuhan, including over 45 Ukrainians and a number of foreign passengers landed ahead of a 14-day quarantine in the country. (Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP) In this handout photo provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office, a member of medical personnel stands ready at the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, lands at Borispil international airport outside Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. A plane carrying evacuees from Wuhan, including over 45 Ukrainians and a number of foreign passengers landed ahead of a 14-day quarantine in the country. (Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP) Busses with passengers from the Ukrainian aircraft chartered by the Ukrainian government for evacuation from the Chinese city of Wuhan, leave the the gate upon their landing at airport outside Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Ukraine's effort to evacuate more than 70 people from China due to the outbreak of the new COVID-19 virus was delayed because of bad weather as evacuees travel to a hospital where they are expected to be quarantined. (AP Photo/Igor Chekachkov) 
