cars
{ By Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  17:08, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8020983/Keanu-Reeves-Carrie-Anne-Moss-transform-iconic-characters-Neo-Trinity-Matrix-4.html }
Keanu Reeves and Carrie-Anne Moss are back together again, 17 years after they were last seen on screen together. The actor, 55, and actress, 52, were seen filming action-packed scenes as they sped through the streets of San Francisco on a motorbike on Tuesday. Returning to their roles as Neo and Trinity for the hotly-anticipated fourth instalment of The Matrix, the acting duo got into character easily for the sci-fi drama.  Keanu looked at ease as he returned to his iconic role, immediately getting into character as The One by wearing an all-black ensemble. The John Wick star looked suave as he teamed a black longline coat over a simple grey T-shirt and matching jeans. Looking more like the dog lover-come-hitman from his recent action hit than Neo, Keanu sported long locks and a close-cropped beard to get into character.  Carrie-Anne put on a stylish display as computer hacker Trinity, as she paired a black biker jacket with denim jeans. Trinity is back from the dead despite being fatally injuries while travelling in Machine City with Neo in Matrix Revolutions. In the Wachioski sisters' third film of the franchise Neo sacrificed himself by allowing Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) to assimilate with him in order to destroy the Smith virus and reboot The Matrix.  Details of the plot in the fourth Matrix film have been kept under wraps, so it is unclear how or why Neo and Trinity are alive and well again.  Priyanka Chopra, Jada Pinkett Smith, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, and Neil Patrick Harris, are confirmed to appear in the fourth instalment of the anthology.  But Agent Smith actor Hugo Weaving revealed earlier this year that he would not be able to reprise his role due to scheduling conflicts, as he can currently be seen treading the boards in The Visit, at the National Theatre. The Matrix first hit theaters in March of 1999 and became a sci-fi smash, earning $465 million worldwide with $171 million coming in domestic box office revenues. He reprised the role in a pair of 2003 sequels, initially The Matrix Reloaded, which earned $741 million worldwide with $460 million domestic totals upon its release in May. The Matrix Revolutions, which hit theaters six months later, made $427 million in international totals, with $139 million coming in domestic earnings.   
