{ By Mail Online Reporter   Published:  16:25, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-7971253/How-daring-moonshiners-run-cops-Prohibition-started-NASCAR.html }
These intriguing photographs illustrate how NASCAR - the world’s foremost stock car racing series - evolved from the shady beginnings of US prohibition bootleggers. The growth of the multi-million dollar sport was fueled by those smuggling alcohol in the 20th Century before showing their driving talent on tracks around the country. The moonshiners were the perfect candidates to impress the crowds as they had modified vehicles, usually a Ford Coupe or a Ford Pickup truck, which they would have resourcefully improved to readily escape the police with their loads of whiskey.  This early NASCAR race featured drivers accustomed to running from the law with a car full of liquor during the US Prohibition era. The country had a nationwide constitutional ban on the production and sale of alcoholic beverages from 1920 to 1933. This led to an increase of bootleggers filling their modified cars with booze and driving it around the states - soon after they would put their skills to the test on haphazard tracks. A moonshine car racing at Greensboro Fairgrounds, North Carolina, in the 1930s.   Renowned driver Junior Johnson returned to his home in North Carolina to help with the family moon-shining business after five victories on the NASCAR circuit in 1955. Johnson previously told the BBC : ‘If it hadn’t been for whiskey, NASCAR wouldn’t have been formed. That’s a fact.’ Pictured here, a bootlegging vehicle filled with sugar used for creating alcohol which was discovered by police in the 1930s. Grinning authorities pose with a large moonshine bust in Raleigh, North Carolina, in 1951. The rivalry between cops and bootleggers was almost friendly. Atlanta police were even quoted as calling moonshiner Roy Hall a 'genius at the wheel' because of his ability to outrun the law. The NASCAR events were scrappy affairs, lacking proper safety measures. After the association was officially formed in 1948, known moonshiners would still enter. Here, a wrecked Ford sits in a bootleggers' garage in North Carolina in 1940. Most moonshiners stopped their illegal practices following the legalization of alcohol by President Franklin Roosevelt. However, some continued to make and sell their own booze without intending to pay any tax. A 1951 Ford pickup truck from Franklin County, Virginia, used for running moonshine. Liquor haulers used this pickup until 1972. The truck was modified with a different engine, extra leaf springs, heavy duty shock absorbers and wooden bed racks to conceal the load (and race).  A pool hall in Kansas in 1931 is filled with patrons drinking alcohol - despite the picture being taken during the Prohibition era. The battle between police and bootleggers was just as intense as anything seen on a motor racing track, but as moonshiner and NASCAR driver Junior Johnson once said: 'Lose on the track and you go home. Lose with a load of whiskey and you go to jail.' An illegal moonshine still in the mountains of North Carolina created and used throughout the 1930s. Barrels of liquid line the floor as the alcohol is prepared. Dangerous business: This photo shows the remains of a borrowed Stutz touring car after running into a tree at 70 miles an hour. The bootlegger driver was killed and 50 gallons of corn liquor was destroyed and confiscated. Following a chase through the busy streets of America's capital, a couple of bootleggers are captured by police as their car full of moonshine is apprehended on January 21, 1922. A policeman stands guard alongside a ruined car full of cases of moonshine in Washington DC, on November 16, 1922. Officers from the Washington DC police department stand next to a recent haul of liquor, having captured it from bootleggers on September 23, 1922. This 1951 Ford pickup truck was a favored vehicle for moonshine runners. When compared to the vehicles used by modern NASCAR drivers, it's a far cry from today's automobiles. The vehicles used by modern NASCAR drivers are created for racing, not bootlegging. Pictured here, driver Jimmie Johnson crosses the start-finish line during a practice run for the NASCAR Cup Series auto race at Kansas Speedway in Kansas City in 2018. NASCAR was officially founded in 1948 and is now one of the best known stock car racing events. Pictured here, A NASCAR Cup series auto race takes place in November, 2018, in Avondale, Arizona. 
