cars
{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:21, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020827/Operation-Growing-Pains-busts-ring-Miami-burglars.html }
Authorities in Florida have announced charges against 10 members of a sophisticated Miami burglary ring, who they say used Instagram and high-tech surveillance to target the rich and famous, including New York Yankees star Aroldis Chapman. According to investigators in Miami-Dade County, the linchpin of the entire criminal enterprise was 30-year-old Xandi Garcia, who was already facing separate charges for allegedly stealing a safe containing valuables worth up to $1.7million from the hotel room of celebrity jeweler Eric Mavashev on the day of Super Bowl LIV. The 10 alleged members of the ring, eight of whom have been arrested as of Tuesday, are facing a slew of charges, including racketeering, conspiracies, burglary, and grand theft.  Garcia's Instagram model girlfriend, Maybel Sanchez, 32, faces counts of racketeering, conspiring to racketeer and dealing in stolen property.  According to police Sanchez stalked potential targets on Instagram, paying special attention to photos showcasing their valuables.  The accused ringleader'a 58-year-old mother is accused of laundering money for her son's criminal enterprise.  The Miami case calls to mind the infamous California 'Bling Ring,' which made headlines a decade ago and inspired an eponymous film directed by Sophia Coppola about the exploits of fame-hungry teenage thieves who used the Internet to track the whereabouts of celebrities, and then burglarize their mansions. The Bling Ring's criminal enterprise netted $3million in cash and valuables, much of it coming from the home of socialite Paris Hilton.    Miami cops began investigating Garcia in July 2018, when he was arrested for allegedly operating a marijuana growhouse.  Garcia ended up pleading guilty and was sentenced to probation, but the investigation continued.  According to an arrest warrant affidavit, Garcia's role as the leader of a well-organized burglary ring came to light after the lead investigator assigned to his case searched through his phone, which was found to contain 'volumes of information' related to both past burglaries and plans for future burglaries.  The data discovered on the device included, among other things, photos and videos of Garcia and his team casing future victims and their homes; images of GPS tracking devices; photos of cars and tag numbers, as well as text message exchanges discussing burglaries,  'Social media was an important tool in the gathering of information by this criminal enterprise prior to the burglaries,' Miami-Dade State Attorney Katherine Fernandez Rundle stated. 'They extensively reviewed social platforms to determine what valuables, such as jewelry, expensive watches, designer handbags & designer shoes may be on-site. Police say Sanchez also stored some of the stolen items at her home, including a gold and diamond necklace, designer shoes and sunglasses, and even posted photos of herself wearing them on her Instagram page.  When confronted by a detective during a search of her home last month, Sanchez claimed she did not know the origins of the jewelry and high-end accessories, and said they were gifted to her by Garcia.   The warrant states that the rightful owners of the luxury goods flaunted by Sanchez recognized the items, saying they were stolen from their Northwest Miami home in July 2018, along with a black Mercedes Benz S63 and a gun.  Burglary victim Lazaro Hernandez, who knew Garcia, contacted him after the heist and accused him of being behind the break-in, but the suspect insisted he was innocent and offered to help him find the real burglar in exchange for $10,000.  Hernandez paid up, but Garcia's ruse unraveled when his girlfriend began showing off her new baubles on her social media page, according to the document.   Fernandez Rundle said after identifying a target, Garcia and his crew then would place GPS tracking devices on the person's car to monitor their whereabouts and mark the locations of their homes for future burglaries.  Investigators say that the group had their sights set on the Davie, Florida, home of New York Yankees pitcher Aroldis Chapman, who has been known to flaunt his expensive watches on his Instagram page, which is followed by more than 620,000 users.  The criminals allegedly kept tabs on the Instagram accounts of Chapman and his wife to find out when the family were out of town.  According to police, Garcia went so far as to send two of his henchman to reconnoiter and videotape the baseball star's $2.6million mansion.   But for an unknown reason, the group never followed through with the Chapman burglary.  While Garcia was under surveillance in early February, investigators learned that he was spotted at the Seybold jewelry marketplace in Miami, trying to offload a custom-made ring.  Before long, detectives learned that the ring had been stolen on February 2 from the Mondrian South Beach Hotel room of Eric Mavashev, known professionally as 'Eric the Jeweler,' along with other high-end adornments and a large amount of cash that were stored in a safe.  Garcia has been charges with racketeering, conspiring to racketeer, six counts of burglary of an unoccupied dwelling, six counts of grand theft, grand theft of a firearm, money laundering grater than $20,000 and structural financial transactions.  
