{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:08, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020765/Dramatic-moment-man-crashes-rocket-sled-241mph-record-attempt-frozen-lake.html }
This is the dramatic moment a Minnesota crashed a rocket sled that reached 241mph in seconds during a Guinness World Record attempt - and walked away unscathed. In a video from Sunday, Kurt Anderson is seen blasting off in his Arctic Arrow across the Manawa Snodeo on a frozen Bear Lake, Wisconsin.   But in an anxiety-inducing moment the yellow vehicle spins out of control and flips upside down, prompting one shocked spectator to gasp: 'Is he alive?' He tried to smash the 247.93mph record set by the late Sammy Miller in February 1981 at Lake George, New York.  Anderson failed to break the record but managed to come out of the incident uninjured thanks to safety preparations. He previously said he wanted to achieve the maximum G-force of a fighter pilot – usually a gravitational force of 8 or 9. Fighter pilots wear G-suits that restrict blood flow in the lower body to keep blood in the upper portion. In January, Anderson told Fox 11 he was aiming for a 9 and had 'counter measures so that I don't black out'. 'My arms are tethered so that if something happened they wouldn't fly out of the car,' he told WJAC before attempted several runs. The sport uses hydrogen peroxide instead of burning fuel. Via a process called decomposition it turns into high-pressured steam. Anderson has not been put off by the close call and vowed to try again. 'You see how far I got off course up there,' he explained to WJAC after the crash. 'I'm not done.' His crew chief – who is 81 and has been building rockets since he was 13 - said it had taken years for them to reach that speed in a matter of seconds and revealed it has been very costly. 'It'll burn about 18 gallons of fuel in four seconds at about $150 a gallon,' Ky Michaelson told WJAC. Anderson also crashed in 2017 while rocket sledding in Sweden but his Rocketboys team fixed any design flaws, giving him the confidence try again.  Anderson describes himself as someone who has always been a mechanical person and had mini bikes and raced dirt bikes growing up. His Area 52 shop is filled with race cars and rockets. On Tuesday, he was already planning for the next attempt and was closely scrutinizing his work. 'I'm back home in MN ready to organize the build of a new winter go fast machine. I want to thank all the great people in Manawa and the surrounding communities,' he posted on Facebook.  'The support was amazing. Debbie, Dave, and Mike Sarna and the rest of the Snodeo crew thanks for a great event. I'm lucky I walked away from that wreck, some of my racing friends have not been so lucky.' 
