{ By Rachel Sharp For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:51, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020815/Hero-school-crossing-guard-88-killed-pushing-children-way-distracted-driver.html }
An 88-year-old school crossing guard has been killed while saving two young boys from a distracted driver in Kansas.   Bob Nill, who was affectionately known as 'Mr Bob, died when a car careened into him around 8am Tuesday morning while he was protecting young children on the crossing in front of Christ the King Parish School in Kansas City.  The black sedan plowed straight into Nill, known fondly among the local children as 'Mr. Bob', as he saved the two boys, aged 11 and 7, pushing them out of its path, officials said.  Nill, a Coast Guard veteran, was taken to the hospital where he died of his injuries. The driver, who has not been named, was also taken to hospital for treatment.  The black sedan was later pictured being towed from the crash scene.   Distressed community members told how drivers would regularly speed in the area by the school. One local woman told ABC7 said her 'heart just dropped' when she heard of the crash. Tanya Walker said she and Nill had previously spoken of their concerns that cars were driving too fast.  'We used to talk about how the cars would come up fast,' she said.  The hero's heartbroken nephew Randy Nill said his uncle had worked the crosswalk for five years because he didn't want to sit around in retirement after working first in the Coast Guard and then in banking.  'This was something I think he felt like he could help children and help himself feel good about what he was doing,' he told ABC7. 'What my Uncle Bob did for just getting little kids across the street seemed probably trivial to some people, but for him, it was a really important job, and now, we really know how important it was. He maybe saved some lives.'   Cathy Fithian, principal of Christ the King Parish School, told KMBC that Nill loved working with the students and they were very fond of him. 'He loved the children. The children loved him. They called him Mr. Bob,' she said.  'On Friday, when he went home, he had a lot of Valentines from the kids, gifts and cards, and he just went on and on about the gifts. And his son knew that he loved it here and the kids loved him.'  Mayor David Alvey led the tributes to the 88-year-old veteran and his family. 'I offer my deepest sympathies to the family of the crossing guard, and I offer our gratitude on behalf of our residents for his selfless sacrifice in protecting our children,' he said in a statement.  'The Unified Government staff extends their heartfelt thoughts and prayers tot he employee's family, friends, and those affected by this tragedy.'  Christ the King School called the crossing guard a 'hero' for saving two of its students in the accident.  'Our hearts are heavy at the passing of Mr. Nill. Please continue to keep him and his family in your prayers as well as the students, parents, and teachers who witnessed today's accident. Also know that Mr. Nill is a hero. He stopped two of our students from crossing the road as the car approached,' the statement said on Facebook.  Wyandotte County Unified Government, which employed the crossing guard, said in a statement it was 'saddened' by his death. 'The Unified Government is deeply saddened to report a public servant employed by the city was struck and killed by a vehicle near 54th & Leavenworth Road while on-duty as a crossing guard this morning. Eyewitness reports indicate the employee was struck while pushing children out of the way of the approaching vehicle,' it said.  Authorities continue to investigate the cause of the crash and determine whether the driver was speeding or distracted at the time.  There is no word yet if any charges will be filed against the driver.   
