{ By Olivia Wheeler For Mailonline   Published:  15:48, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8020781/Calvin-Harris-finally-sells-Hollywood-Hills-home-5-4M.html }
He originally put his property on the market four years ago for a whopping $9,995,000 (£7,716,140) in January 2016. And Calvin Harris has finally sold his lavish Hollywood Hills mansion for $7million (£5.4M), the same price he purchased it for in 2013.  The Scottish DJ, 36, is said to have not lived in the home for five years and has been using it as a high-priced rental property instead.   The Hollywood Hills mansion boasts several luxury features such as an infinity pool wrapping around the property, home cinema and even a wet bar for guests to enjoy. It has a motor court that can fit 10 cars, a master suite with floor-to-ceiling windows and a fireplace with dark wood floors throughout the residence.   Calvin's now sold property also features a state-of-the-art kitchen, Art Deco chandeliers, art work, an outdoor fire place, large seating area and everything electrical - such as the electronic gates, cameras and lights - can be controlled by a smartphone. According to Variety, the mansion was bought by 'all-cash buyer' and technology entrepreneur Stephen Garden for just over $7million (£5.4M). The publication also claims that Calvin still owns three properties in Los Angeles, he has a different $5million (£3.8M) Hollywood Hills mansion, a 10-bedroom $15million (£11.5M) Beverly Hills compound and a $13.8million (£10.6M) lot in Bel Air.  Calvin is currently loved-up with his model girlfriend Aarika Wolf, 25, and the two even have a pet Golden Retriever dog called Boris. The couple have just returned from several idyllic getaways over the Christmas and New Year period, taking to Instagram the duo shared updates from The Maldives, Egypt and Thailand.  The lovebirds were first linked in February 2015 after a friend posted a picture on Instagram of the pair sharing a kiss aboard a private jet after the iHeartRadio Music festival in Las Vegas. It is understood Calvin - real name Adam Wiles - met the stunning model after she was cast as one of a number of lingerie-clad women for his Blame music video six months previously. The pair were together for seven months before Calvin ended their relationship, and started dating singer Taylor Swift, 29. They rekindled their relationship in 2017, before separating just three months later, but sources claim their third attempt at making things work will be long-term. An insider told The Sun: 'This time pals believe their relationship will last the distance.'  Born on March 24, 1994 in North Dakota, Aarika shot to fame on Instagram and was then signed to Vision Model Management. Aarika moved to Los Angeles to pursue a modelling career and has been involved with Calvin Harris since 2015. 
