{ By Frances Mulraney For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:30, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020595/Video-shows-construction-workers-build-Chrysler-Building-1930.html }
Construction workers on the Chrysler Building are shown working at terrifying heights without any safety equipment in archive newsreel footage.  One of New York's most iconic buildings, the 1,046-foot Chrysler building was constructed in less than two years at the dying end of the Roaring Twenties.  This newsreel footage was captured in 1930 as workers wrestled to install an eagle head from the dizzying heights of the 61st floor  The video was compiled using footage from the Moving Image Research Collection at the University of South Carolina.  The fast-paced build of the Chrysler Building happened with thanks to the 3,000 construction workers who managed to put the steel work together in just six months in the summer of 1929, moving at the rate of four floors a week.  The Fox Movietone's sound cameras visited the construction work on several occasions during 1929 and 1930, in this video visiting the workers as they installed the eagles to the upper floors of the building in tribute to owner Walter P. Chrysler and his automobiles hood ornaments.  The workers can be seen wrestling on the eagle head as they stand high above the motorcars moving along Lexington Avenue below.   The video opens with a group of men standing precariously on the side of the partially constructed building holding onto the wires as the sounds from the street many floors below drifts up.  They are then shown balancing on wind-shaken scaffolding as they clean the newly installed glass, a shot towards the ground showing the extreme heights the workers have reached as they pull apart the scaffolding to work on the next part of the building. Automobile manufacturer Walter P. Chrysler purchased the lease of the not-yet-constructed building from real-estate developer William H. Reynolds in late 1928 after Reynolds realized that he couldn't cover the costs of the commission he had set out for architect William Van Alen.  Both Van Alen and new owner Chrysler set out with the intention of making their new building the tallest in the world, Chrysler seeing the construction as a marker of his newly-established business profile having only set up his automobile company three years before.  Cass Gilbert's 792-foot Woolworth Building had been the world's tallest building since 1913 but was over taken in 1929 by the Bank of Manhattan Trust building on Wall Street at 927-feet tall.  The architect of the Bank of Manhattan Trust building was Craig Severance, Van Alen's estranged former business partner and there was a fierce competition between them as the 'race to the sky' took over the city.  Severance decided that the he would lengthen the spire of 40 Wall Street by 60 ft pushing it to 925 ft total and 85 ft taller than the what he thought the plan was for his rival's building.  Van Alen and the Chrysler Building would eventually come out on top, secretly constructing the now famous 185-foot Chrysler spire and erecting it in just 90 minutes. They timed the spire's construction after the Bank of Manhattan Trust reached its highest point and declared itself the tallest building in the world, swooping in to immediately claim the title from them and becoming the first man-made structure to reach over 1,000 ft.  With the stainless steel spire erected on October 23, 1929, the Chrysler Building now reached 1,046 ft, declaring it the outright winner of 1929's battle for 'world's tallest building'.  It too would only be tallest in the world for another eleven months, the Empire State Building claiming top spot on April 11, 1931.  The Chrysler Building officially opened on May 27, 1930, having begun construction on September 19, 1928. According to ForConstructionPros.com, there were 3,000 construction workers involved in the building of the Chrysler Building but zero deaths, an uncommon occurrence in the building of such as tall building at the time, when the death of steel workers was all too common.   Just a year later, the building of the Empire State Building would record five deaths among its 3,400 construction workers. Its construction moved at an even faster pace, however, taking only one year and 45 days.  The Chrysler building relied heavily on steel to achieve its 77 floors and cost $20 million to construct.  Van Alen ended up suing Chrysler for the payment, however, because the automobile manufacturer refused to cough up, believing the architect to have some dodgy dealings with the suppliers.  In total, the building included 20,961 tons of structural steel, 391,881 rivets, 3,826,000 bricks, 10,000, and 3,862 windows  The Chrysler Building's art-deco look was considered modern, urbane and luxurious, with distinctive elements such as the horizontal black and white stripes between floors and the streamlined eagle heads.  The design also pays homage to its owner Chrysler and his automobile roots, including hubcaps, mudguards and hood ornaments among the building's decorations.  As seen in the video, the 61st floor is also graved with eagle heads, replicas of the 1929 Chrysler hood ornaments.  
