cars
{ By James Dutton For Mailonline   Published:  09:49, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8019889/Barcelona-chief-holds-crunch-meeting-players-including-Lionel-Messi.html }
Josep Bartomeu held a meeting on Tuesday with Barcelona's four captains in order to diffuse allegations he orchestrated a smear campaign against his leading players, according to reports in Spain. A programme on radio platform Cadena Ser, claimed this week that the Barcelona board had hired a Data Analytics Consultant called I3Ventures to publish stories on social media that eroded the image of several players and ex-players while also improving the president's image. The club president has now met with Lionel Messi, Gerard Pique, Sergio Busquets and Sergi Roberto to explain the full nature of his relationship with the company involved, claim Diario Sport. The club issued a statement on Monday admitting having hired I3Ventures but stringently denying that the consultants had any link to the social media accounts that have emitted the negative stories about Messi, Pique and former manager Pep Guardiola among others. The statement claims all ties will be cut with the company if any links are proved. The reports claim that the social media accounts set up by I3Ventures publish stories that create a negative image of their subject. One Twitter account called Justicia y dialogo en el deporte tweeted negatively about Pique's Davis Cup involvement and another account entitled Alter Sports posted messages about Guardiola having crashed four cars. Even if Bartomeu is able to argue that the company have not been instructed by the club to publish negative stories about certain individuals the president will still be under huge pressure to explain himself. Especially due to the link between the company and the negative coverage of Messi, Pique and other leading figures features on the Barca pay-roll. The scandal is the latest in a series of embarrassing for Bartomeu and his board, who are already under pressure for the sacking of Ernesto Valverde in January. It follows claims made by sporting director Eric Abidal that the dressing room was responsible for Valverde being fired, which led to a fall out with Messi, and the bungled attempts to sign Neymar last summer or Valencia forward Rodrigo this January.  
