cars
{ By Associated Press   Published:  09:17, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8019777/Alfa-Romeo-Haas-unveil-cars-start-F1-preseason.html }
MONTMELÓ, Spain (AP) - Formula One teams Alfa Romeo and Haas unveiled their cars for the new season on Wednesday. Former champion Kimi Raikkonen and teammate Antonio Giovinazzi pulled the tarp off their Alfa Romeo at the Barcelona-Catalunya Circuit just before preseason testing began. The new car, called Alfa Romeo C39, maintains the team´s white and red livery. "We expect to improve on what we achieved last season, to make a step forward and hopefully be able to fight for the position at the top of the midfield," technical director Jan Monchaux said. Robert Kubica, who has joined the team as a reserve driver, will start preseason testing early on Wednesday, with Giovinazzi taking over in the afternoon. Raikkonen will get his turn on Thursday. The 2007 F1 champion finished 12th in the standings last season. Giovinazzi was 17th. Haas also presented its new black-and-white VF-20 to be driven by veteran pair Romain Grosjean and Kevin Magnussen. Kimi Raikkonen, right, and Antonio Giovinazzi stand after unveiling the new Alfa Romeo C39 ahead of the Formula One pre-season testing session at the Barcelona Catalunya racetrack in Montmelo, outside Barcelona, Spain, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. (AP Photo/Joan Monfort) Haas is looking to rebound from a disappointing 2019 season, when Magnussen finished 16th and Grosjean 18th among the 20 drivers. Magnussen will drive on Wednesday, with Grosjean taking over on Thursday. Both teams are trying to challenge McLaren's place as the next-best team after front-runners Mercedes, Ferrari and Red Bull. ___ More AP racing: https://www.racing.ap.org Kevin Magnussen, left, and Romain Grosjean unveil the Haas VF-20 ahead of the Formula One pre-season testing session at the Barcelona Catalunya racetrack in Montmelo, outside Barcelona, Spain, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. (AP Photo/Joan Monfort) Kevin Magnussen, left, and Romain Grosjean unveil the Haas VF-20 ahead of the Formula One pre-season testing session at the Barcelona Catalunya racetrack in Montmelo, outside Barcelona, Spain, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. (AP Photo/Joan Monfort) Kevin Magnussen, left, and Romain Grosjean, right, stand with other officials after unveiling the Haas VF-20 ahead of the Formula One pre-season testing session at the Barcelona Catalunya racetrack in Montmelo, outside Barcelona, Spain, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. (AP Photo/Joan Monfort) 
