{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  08:15, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8019521/I-Not-Okay-trailer-finds-star-Sophia-Lillis-dealing-teenage-complexities.html }
IT star Sophia Lillis returns to the small screen as a teen grappling with high school life... and newfound superpowers in the first trailer for I Am Not Okay With This. Lillis, 18, portrays Sydney, a seemingly typical high school girl, though in the opening moments of the trailer, she's seen running away from two cop cars, covered in blood, a possible homage to the pigs blood scene in Carrie. 'Dear Diary, go f**k yourself,' Sydney says in voiceover, while catching her breath from running from the cops.  Sydney is then seen walking off a bus and into school, explaining through voiceover that she is a 'boring 17-year-old white girl' who is 'not special.' She's given a journal by a counselor who think it might, 'help with your moods,' because she keeps losing her temper.  She's seen breaking her pencil, kicking over a garbage can and even cutting off a bit of her hair, adding, 'I don't want to, it just spills out.' We then meet her friend Stanley Barber (Wyatt Oleff), who she explains, 'lives down the street from me' and her best friend Dina (Sofia Bryant), who is dating 'golden boy Bradley Lewis' (Richard Ellis). Lewis asks her, while they sit together at a diner, 'Do you ever smile,' and she does not oblige him, before revealing that her dad died recently. 'And now, everything is so different' she adds, before asking her diary 'when it gets easier,' as she chucks a rock at a railroad sign... which inexplicably sends it flying out of the ground, as she watches, stunned by her newfound powers.  She's then seen riding in a car with Stanley before telling Dina, 'I think something's wrong with me,' with Dina replying, 'What do you mean?' 'I just feel different lately,' Sydney adds, while she's seen trying to pop zits on her leg and Stanley is seen getting ready. 'Everybody feels like a freak sometimes,' Dina says, with Sydney responding, 'Yeah, I guess.' But during a random trip to the store, Sydney's powers manifest again, with all of the items flying off the shelves on their own.  She's also seen in a car with Stanley who tells her, 'You know can tell me anything, right? and later at their school's football game. The trailer winds down with a number of shots including Sydney and Dina going to a dance and Sydney making objects in her room levitate. The final shot features just Sydney and Stanley, as she levitates a pair of bowling balls and sends them flying into the wall behind Stanley as he turns to her, mesmerized. I Am Not Okay With This, an eight-episode series based on the graphic novel of the same name by Charles Forsman, debuts on Netflix February 26.  
