cars
{ By Sahar Mourad and Josh Hanrahan For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:18, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8019245/Omar-Elomar-not-initial-target-Sydney-shooting.html }
A teenage relative of a slain ISIS terrorist was shot dead by mistake after intervening in an argument involving his younger cousin.  Omar Elomar, 18, was gunned down outside a park on Cabramatta Avenue at Miller, in Sydney's south-west, about 11.10pm on Saturday.  But Daily Mail Australia can now reveal Omar wasn't the initial target of the shooting - rather, the assassins were after his 15-year-old cousin.  At his funeral at Sydney's Lakemba Mosque on Wednesday, grieving relatives said he had told his cousin to run when he spotted his would-be attackers. Scroll down for video  Relatives said a fight broke out between Omar's cousin, his friends and children from another school near Miller Park on Saturday. Tensions had already been high and so calls went out for a number of older relatives to help settle the dispute peacefully. But soon after the groups arrived at the scene, the confrontation exploded.  Witnesses claim one of the older relatives pointed a gun at Omar's cousin and pulled the trigger, but the weapon misfired.  Omar told him: 'Quick, run'.  Witnesses said the gunman then turned to Omar and shot him in the chest, before he and other members of his group fled in a stolen car.  NSW Police remain on the hunt for his killer, with the homicide squad having taken over the investigation. Hundreds of mourners turned out at Lakemba Mosque in western Sydney to farewell the teenager on Wednesday. Tributes have flowed for him in the days since his death, with relatives telling how he desperately wanted to become a lawyer and leave the notoriety over his family name behind him.  'Somebody thought it was OK to take away one of the two and only brothers I have,' his sister Shayma Elomar wrote on Facebook. 'Omar I have no f**king words! I have no more ambition for life. Omar wanted to be a lawyer... (he) was going places in life. 'Anyone who knew this beautiful soul knew how happy and amazing he was, his smile could light up any dark room.' The teenager's death gained additional attention because of his relation to a number of criminals including former ISIS fighter Mohamed Elomar. Daily Mail Australia understands Omar is a direct relative of Ibrahim Elomar, an uncle to Mohamed and Ahmed Elomar.  Mohamed was infamously pictured holding severed heads in his hands while fighting for Islamic State in Syria. After flying from Sydney to Syria in 2013 he quickly rose through the IS ranks, before being killed in a drone strike in 2015. Mohamed's brother Ahmed previously spent three years in jail for bashing a police officer during the Hyde Park riots in 2012. Ibrahim Elomar and his brother Mamdouh, the father of Mohamed and Ahmed, were sentenced to 20 months in prison for trying to bribe officials to receive construction contracts. They were released from jail in mid-2019. The shooting happened directly outside the home of Raed Kalal, who told The Daily Telegraph he tried in vain to perform CPR on the teenager. 'I've heard a gunshot, ran out, called the ambulance, started doing CPR and the bloke died straight away and that was it,' Mr Kalal said. 'I tried CPR, mouth to mouth… I had my phone on the ground and the ambulance they were (talking to me). 'I tried my best… I'll try save any life, doesn't matter who it is.'   Locals in the area said they heard what sounded like a 'party' coming from the park in the hours before the shooting.  Elomar's Lexus - which had red P-plates on it - and three other cars, including a black Toyota Corolla, a white VW hatchback and a purple Nissan Tiida, were seized by NSW Police detectives.  
