{ By Jackson Barron and Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:51, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8018841/Motor-racing-legend-says-future-V8-Supercars-competition-risk-decision-close-Holden.html }
Motor racing legend Craig Lowndes says the future of Australia's V8 Supercar competition is up in the air following the decision to close Holden. The 45-year-old grew up in a Holden family and raced the famous cars for most of his driving career and said he was devastated with General Motors' call to end the iconic Australian brand. 'I've spent 90 per cent of my racing career piloting a Holden Commodore and to hear that it's going to cease to exist is a shame for me,' Lowndes told Today.  Holden Commodores make up more than half of the grid in Australia's V8 Supercars races, making Lowndes uncertain of the future of the competition once Holden's commitment ends after this season.  'They're the discussions which are above me,' he said. 'All the team owners down pit lane are going to be chatting with the manufacturer of Holden and Supercars to find out what the future looks like going forward.' The seven-time Bathurst 1000 champion offered his condolences to the employees and families effected by the news. 'I am very humbled I've been able to drive a car like this and have the results we have had over the years that I've been driving, but you've got to remember the families and employees still involved in Holden at the moment, as well as the dealers,' he said. 'And all those people who are unfortunately going to lose their job.'  Lowndes' disappointment was echoed by racing legend Mark Skaife, who told Sky News he didn't expect to see the company's collapse in his lifetime. 'Two of us were battling to hold back the tears, it was one of those ones where I know we might be big sooks, it's a very very big change to a landscape that I never envisaged, I just never in my lifetime thought there would be a day when we would see Holden move out of this country,' Skaife said. Skaife described the company as something so iconically Australian, it was like losing a part of the culture when the close was announced.   'It's been part of the social fabric of Australia. You've either been blue or you've been red- the reality around football, meat pies, kangaroos and Holden cars- it's been part of our psyche,' Mr Skaife said. After closing the company's local manufacturing operations in 2017, GM announced on Monday it would retire the brand in both Australia and New Zealand.  GM will not just axe the Holden name but also stop selling cars in Australia. Holden has suffered recent crumbling domestic sales, while GM also announced plans to shut a car plant in Thailand and withdraw the Chevrolet brand from the market there.    Together the two shutdowns will cost the US multinational more than $1billion. GM has pledged to provide 'fair' redundancy packages for its 600 staff members left in limbo, with most to be gone by the end of June. 1856 - Holden begins as a South Australian saddlery business. 1917 - Holden manufactures vehicle bodies. 1931 - General Motors buys Holden Motor Body Builders. 1948 - The FX, the first Australian-designed car, is released. 1951 - Holden's first ute goes on sale. 1958 - South Australian manufacturing plant opens at Elizabeth, though it does not assemble its first full car until 1965. 1968 - Kingswood and Monaro enter the market. 1969 - Holden makes its first V8 engine. 1971 - Holden launches the HQ model. Considered by some to be the best Holden ever. 1978 - Commodore replaces Kingswood. 1990 - Holden's last Australian boss, John Bagshaw, quits. 2003 - Holden opens $400 million V6 engine plant at Port Melbourne, exports to Korea, China and Mexico begin. Toyota takes Holden's position as top-selling car brand. 2009 - Parent company, General Motors, files for bankruptcy in the US but survives. 2013 - Prime minister Tony Abbott says the government will reduce support for automotive manufacturers despite appeals for help. 2013 - Holden decides to end manufacturing in Australia by 2017. The Holden Commodore is to become a fully-imported car. 2017 - The company rolls its last car off the assembly line on October 20, ending more than 50 years of car production on the Elizabeth site. 2019 - GM announces it will discontinue its Commodore and Astra models in 2020. 2020 - General Motors announces the retirement of the Holden brand in Australia and New Zealand.  Source: AAP 
