{ By Rachel Sharp For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:11, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016685/Six-year-old-Faye-Swetlik-strangled-death-hours-abducted.html }
Coty Taylor, 30, strangled six-year-old Faye Swetlik to death a few hours after she was abducted and then slashed his own neck, autopsies confirmed Tuesday.   Lexington County Coroner Margaret Fisher fought back tears in a press conference held outside Trinity Baptist Church, Cayce, on Tuesday afternoon, as she revealed the results of the little girl's autopsy. She confirmed that Faye died of asphyxiation and that her homicide 'took place within a few hours of her abduction'.  The autopsy report for the man linked to Swetlik's death, 30-year-old Coty Taylor, revealed that he committed suicide by slashing his own neck. DNA evidence from the scenes the bodies were found and from inside Taylor's home showed that he abducted and murdered Faye, authorities confirmed.   He is believed to be the 'sole perpetrator of the crime', said Cayce Department of Public Safety Director Byron Snellgrove. Fisher said no more details would be released around how Faye died or the condition her body was found in.  But she confirmed that Faye did not die in the location her body was found but that the killer had moved her body shortly before police she was found Thursday morning.  Officers also identified the 'critical pieces of evidence' located Thursday morning in a trash can belonging to Taylor's property as a soup ladle with freshly dug dirt on it and Faye's polka dot boot that she was wearing when she disappeared.  Snellgrove choked up with tears as he told how Thursday was the regular sanitation pick-up day for the Churchill Heights neighborhood and said that 'all residents were obviously aware of that'.  Officers followed the sanitation trucks through the neighborhood and 'methodically combed through' the trash looking for clues.   After finding these items at around 10 am, Snellgrove said he called for assistance to do a search in the woods behind the homes. While waiting for assistance, Snellgrove said he discovered Faye's body at around 10:30 am. At the same time, other Cayce officers were then called to reports of a man bleeding on the back patio of 602 Picadilly Square.  Police went to his aid and found Coty Taylor dead, Snellgrove said.  Snellgrove also confirmed that officers had interviewed Taylor and searched the property at 602 Picadilly Square on Wednesday afternoon. He said the suspected murderer was 'cooperative and gave consent for agents to search the house'. Officers did not find anything in the search that led them to believe he was connected to her disappearance.  Officers had also previously searched the wooded area where Faye's body was dumped four times prior to the discovery.  The suspected killer is believed to have moved his victim's body 'in the shadow of the night' to the wooded area behind the townhouses where it was found.  Snellgrove said Taylor moved Faye's body late Wednesday or early Thursday 'through the cover of darkness' after panicking that the net was closing in after police had searched his property earlier that day.  Authorities have not said where Faye's body was hidden between her murder on Monday and the discovery Thursday.  Snellgrove also said video footage gathered from the neighborhood during the search had shown Taylor 'doing some things that were suspicious', but would not go into detail. It has also been confirmed that Taylor did have a roommate at the property and that officers have been in contact with them since the crime. The roommate did not know about Taylor's crimes and was 'not at the residence much during that time', said Snellgrove. He added that Taylor acted alone.   Taylor's cause of death was not discussed during Tuesday's news conference out of respect for Faye's family, but it was shared with media after.  Faye vanished while she was playing on her front porch on February 10, leading to a desperate manhunt involving hundreds of officers and members of the public. Monday February 10, at 2.45pm Faye Swetlik is seen getting off a school bus after attending first grade at Sprindale Elementary School Monday February 10, between 2.45pm & 3.44pm Faye is last seen playing in front of her Londonderry Square home in Churchill Heights when her mother discovers her missing Monday February 10, 5pm Faye's mother, Selena Collins, reports her missing after a frantic search of the neighborhood. Up to 50 officers canvas the neighborhood. Department of Public Safety's Chief Byron Snellgrove said there did not appear to be any evidence of abduction at the time, and her disappearance doesn't meet the criteria for an Amber Alert Tuesday February 11 FBI and SLED helicopter teams join more than 200 law enforcement investigators in the search for Faye. A tip hotline number is set up for the public. Community members gather at Trinity Baptist Church to pray for Faye's safe return Wednesday February 12 Cops continue to knock on doors in the neighbourhood, but admit in a press conference not everyone within their search area had been spoken to. Police also search the woods behind the homes. They also make a public appeal for the drivers of an SUV and another car seen in the area to contact them. Only one driver does Officers interview Taylor who is 'cooperative' and search his property as part of house to house searches. They find nothing to suggest he is linked to her abduction  Wednesday night/Thursday morning  Taylor moves Faye's body 'through the cover of darkness' late Wednesday night or early Thursday morning to the wooded area  Thursday February 13 morning, 10 am Cops discover a soup ladle with fresh dirt on and Faye's polka dot boot that she was wearing when she disappeared in a trash can belonging to 602 Picadilly Square, where Coty Scott Taylor, 30, lives. The 'critical evidence' leads them to the woods neighboring an autoparts store behind the home    Thursday February 13, 10.30 am Cayce Department of Public Safety Chief Byron Snellgrove discovers Faye's body in the woods behind the home of her neighbor, and near her home.  Thursday February 13, after 11am Officers are called to reports of a man bleeding on the back porch of 602 Picadilly Square. Police find Taylor dead with a self-inflicted slash wound to the neck Friday February 14 Authorities reveal where they discovered Faye's body and confirm neighbor Coty Scott Taylor is linked to her death. They will not reveal more details about the deaths, but said autopsies will be performed Saturday  Saturday February 15 The coroner completed the autopsies of Faye and Taylor and said results will be announced Tuesday, to give the family time to process the information  The Charleston County Sheriff's Department provided a motorcade to accompany the body of the little girl from the coroner's office to a funeral home at Lexington County   A vigil was held at night in Churchill Heights neighborhood where Faye's heartbroken parents thanked the community for their support  Tuesday February 18  Coroner reveals Faye's autopsy shows she died of asphyxiation hours a few hours after she was abducted Taylor's autopsy shows he died of suicide by slashing his own neck DNA shows Taylor abducted and murdered Faye. Authorities believe he acted alone A candlelight vigil is held on the City Hall Front Lawn to honor the life of the little girl  The search came to an end Thursday when officers found her body in a wooded area between her home in Churchill Heights and a Napa Auto Parts store in Cayce, South Carolina. Taylor's body was found in his home just after. This latest update on the case comes after Lexington County Coroner Margaret Fisher confirmed Saturday that Faye's autopsy was completed but said the results would not be released at the time out of respect for Faye's family.  'They need privacy and time to process the information,' she said in a statement.  A candlelight vigil is being held on the City Hall Front Lawn at 5:30 pm Tuesday after the press conference to honor the life of the little girl.  The vigil will be opened by Mayor Elise Partin and will also include messages from Sarah Main, Executive Director of Lexington County Community Mental Health, and Hope Vrana, Principal of Springdale Elementary, where Faye was a first-grader.  This will be followed by a moment of silence, lighting of candles and a closing prayer by Chaplain Rogerson.  Faye was last seen playing in front of her home in Londonderry Square at approximately 3.45pm on February 10. Her mother Selena Marie Collins called 911 to report her daughter missing at 5pm, after searching for her with friends and neighbors. In the harrowing 911 call, the distraught mother is heard gasping and sobbing uncontrollably. 'I can't find my daughter,' she tells the dispatcher. 'She was just right in front of my front porch.' Collins describes the clothes Faye was wearing to the operator - a black shirt with neon colors, a flower print skirt and polka dot rain boots. The shirt had the word 'peace' written on it. Officers launched a search for the girl that day, with 50 officers conducting a search in the neighborhood.  Faye's grandmother Ruth Collins pleaded for help from the public in locating her, saying she was 'not the type of kid that will up and walk away'. Snellgrove said there did not appear to be any evidence of abduction at the time, and her disappearance didn't meet the criteria for an Amber Alert. The following day, more than 200 law enforcement investigators were searching for Faye, after the FBI and SLED helicopter teams joined in the search. A tip hotline number was set up and community members gathered at Trinity Baptist Church to pray for Faye's safe return. On Wednesday, officers continued going door to door in the Churchill Heights neighborhood and combed the woodland area behind the homes. It has now emerged that Taylor was interviewed and his property searched on Wednesday afternoon, but officers found nothing suspicious.   Authorities also release footage of Faye getting off her school bus at around 2:50pm Monday. She is seen getting out of her seat, speaking to the bus driver and then exiting the vehicle. Officers also made a public appeal for the drivers of a Chevrolet Trailblazer and silver sedan seen in the area to contact them. They later managed to track down and speak to the driver of one of the vehicles. The neighborhood was closed off to everyone except residents, their visitors and delivery trucks. Any vehicle coming in and out of the area was searched and individuals were questioned by officers.  Police towed two cars from Faye's home Thursday morning but didn't share details of anything that 'may or may not have been found in those vehicles'.  Three days into the search, all hope of finding the little girl alive was dashed when officers searching through rubbish trucks discovered a 'critical piece of evidence' in a trash can belonging to 602 Picadilly Square, the home where Taylor lived and about 100 feet from Faye's home. The discovery led police to the woods around the back of Taylor's home where they found her body at around 10:30 am. Taylor's body was then found at his home.   Snellgrove announced the shocking news through tears at a Thursday press conference and said Faye's death was being treated as a homicide. In a press conference Friday, officers then named Taylor as the deceased man and confirmed the two deaths were 'connected' and that the community was not in any danger. Sgt Evan Antley, with the Cayce Department of Public Safety, assured the community in a press conference Friday 'that there is no reason to believe there is an active threat in the community'. No arrests were made and authorities were not seeking any other persons of interest, he said.   Circumstances surrounding the deaths weren't revealed at that time but police confirmed Faye was killed elsewhere and her body was then moved to the woodland shortly before she was found. The 'critical evidence' that led them to the crime scene was also not identified at the time but was confirmed as something that was listed on Faye's missing person flier. The flier stated that Faye was last seen wearing polka dot rain boots, a pink flowered skirt, and a black T-shirt with the word 'peace' written on the front. Taylor, who did not have a criminal record and was not known to police, is not related to the little girl nor is he a friend of the family, authorities confirmed. 'He was merely a neighbor who lived at Churchill Heights,' Antley said.  Both autopsies were completed Saturday but the coroner's office said the family needed time to process the information before it is revealed to the public. Faye, who loved dresses and fancy shoes, was escorted by police procession from the coroner's office to Caughman-Harman Funeral Home, Lexington, after her autopsy on Saturday. Members of the public and officers lined the streets outside the funeral home and along the procession route to greet the little girl. The devastated community has rallied around Faye's family since news broke of her tragic and untimely death.  Several GoFundMe pages have been set up, with one on Faye's grandmother's Facebook page standing at almost $7,000 as of Tuesday morning. Caughman-Harman Funeral Home said it will also cover the costs of Faye's funeral for free.  A memorial site at the entrance to Churchill Heights neighborhood has grown each day, with family, friends and community members leaving teddy bears, flowers, candles and cards out of respect for the little girl.  Hundreds of people gathered at the site for a vigil Saturday night. Faye's distraught parents joined mourners - the first time they had been seen since their daughter's body was discovered.  In heartbreaking images, Faye's mom and dad Selena Marie Collins and Chad Swetlik were pictured with their heads bowed as family, including Faye's grandmother Ruth Collins, gathered around them and held candles aloft in memory of the little girl.    The distraught parents thanked mourners for their love and support following Faye's disappearance and murder.   On Sunday, community members came together to protect the memorial site from the rain, covering it with a tarp and tent as the weather took a turn.   The community has spoken of the shock that such a tragedy would happen in the neighborhood. 'We never dreamed something like this [would happen] in our neighborhood. It's just unreal,' neighbor Tony Brewer told 10TV. 'I have cried so much you wouldn't believe. It's broken my heart.' - He was 30 years old - Taylor lived at 602 Picadilly Square, a two-bed unit around 100 feet from Faye's home - Taylor did not have a criminal record and was not known to police - He is not related to the little girl nor is he a friend of the family - Officers had previously spoken to Taylor during the search for the missing girl - Taylor attended Bluffton High School from 2003 and graduated in 2007 - Beaufort County School District said he had good academics and no disciplinary record - He went to University of South Carolina Beaufort in 2007, transferred to its Columbia campus in 2008 and then withdrew from the university in 2009 - He worked at Jimmy John's restaurant in Columbia but left the company in 2015 Another mourner, Tequila English told 10TV she has a daughter the same age as Faye and that the tragedy has been hard on all parents and families in the area. 'I have a 6-year-old. I'm certain I can relate. As a mother, I can relate to her feelings right now. She's being very strong to even be here tonight.' 'I just don't understand how someone could take the life of somebody so small… it's just horrible,' another local woman said.  The local community has been demanding answers this last week, with a Facebook group dedicated to the little girl's death voicing speculation over whether suspected killer Taylor acted alone. Conspiracy theories circulated online asking whether he had a roommate who may have been involved. Officers have now confirmed he had a roommate but that they do not believe they were connected to Faye's abduction and murder.   Photos on rental website Apartments.com show the inside of 602 Picadilly Square where the suspected killer lived and where his body was discovered Thursday. It is listed as a two-bed, one-and-a-half bath unit measuring 1,100 square feet. The listing also details nearby schools, including Springdale Elementary School where Faye was a first-grade student. Hubbard Bowers confirmed to DailyMail.com on Monday that the firm manages the property but would not confirm when Taylor moved in or how many people lived at the address. 'This is a spacious townhome that features an over-sized living room, a spacious eat-in kitchen, and large bedrooms,' the listing on Apartments.com reads. 'Walk out the patio door to a great outdoor patio that's perfect for entertaining.' Tributes have poured in for the little girl, from family, public figures and community members. Faye's grandmother Ruth Collins has posted heartfelt posts on her Facebook page.  She posted a picture of a single burning candle and a touching picture of her kissing her granddaughter's head when news of the little girl's death emerged.  Lexington School District Two released a statement Thursday saying the school community was 'heart-broken' by her untimely death.  'We are heart-broken with news of the death of Faye Swetlik, a first-grade student at Springdale Elementary, who went missing earlier this week. When the school community experiences a tragedy like the loss of a child, it deeply affects all of us,' it said. Some of Faye's friends in the first grade at Springdale Elementary School made Valentine's Day cards for her in the hope of her safe return.  Vice President Mike Pence gave a speech to The Citadel, a military academy in South Carolina, according to Fox News. '[A]llow me to address an issue that I know is on the hearts of people all across South Carolina today,' the vice president said on Thursday. 'And as your vice president and as a father, let me say we were deeply saddened to receive word this afternoon that the remains of Faye Swetlik, a 6-year-old girl who went missing from her parents' front yard just three days ago, have been found.' The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline provides 24/7, free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals. The number to call is 1-800-273-8255.   
