cars
{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline   Published:  15:17, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8015883/Revolutionary-baby-products-new-parents-wish-list-2020-expert-reveals.html }
With so many new baby products emerging all the time it's difficult to know which ones are worth investing in. The world of parenting has seen a seismic shift in the past two decades, with the number of working mothers in England rising by more than a million, the emergence of co-parenting and more men taking on equal responsibilities.  But what about the products that have changed UK parents' lives for the better? Emma Coffey is a mother-of-two and show director at The Baby Show, which has been running for 18 years and returns to the ExCeL London on February 28 until March 1. She knows everything there is to know about the childhood essentials and accessories that have stood the test of time, as well as emerging trends which have taken the baby industry by storm. Here she shares her top products which she believes should be on every new parent's wish list in 2020 with FEMAIL. Ergonomic baby carriers  Daniel Craig received an outpouring of compliments from mums after he was pictured holding his baby daughter in a carrier in 2018.  The papoose has been used for generations, but baby carriers from the likes of Baby Bjorn, Ergobaby and Stokke have evolved greatly over the past 18 years. They have become more ergonomic, making them safer for baby's hips and providing greater comfort for mum and dad.  Lightweight buggies Many parents these days don't just want to push their buggy in the park but get outside and active.  The iCandy Peach All-Terrain Forest, which launched in 2017, has enabled parents to really get off the beaten track and push their buggy on tougher terrain.  And there's been an incredible number of small, lightweight fold-away buggies, like London's favourite compact buggy, the Babyzen Yoyo, and the Didofy Lotus 3 in 1 travel system that opens and closes at the touch of a button, meaning parents can transport their little one wherever their hearts desire without the worry of a huge, heavy buggy to lug around!   Discreet breast pumps Breast pumps have come along way over the past 18 years.  While they used to be noisy, heavy and sometimes uncomfortable, today there are a number of incredible designs to make mums' lives easier.  Medela have always led the way with the double electric breast pumps, and one of the most exciting to launch in 2018, and even spotted on the catwalks of London Fashion Week, was the Elvie breast pump.  Silent, wearable, small and discreet, mums can fit the pump into their bra with no tubes, no noise and no hassle, enabling them to pump anytime and anywhere. Side-sleeping crib The Chicco Next2Me side-sleeping crib is a genius invention to help you sleep close to your baby, ensuring they're safe.  It can be used with the side open, attached to the bed or as a regular crib with the side up.  It attaches easily to every bed, ideal for giving baby the sense of protection they need and parents peace of mind. Sleep aid There's been hundreds of sleep aids launched over the past 18 years but one of the finest - and most iconic - is Ewan the Dream Sheep.  A simple yet highly effective tool for settling restless babies and toddlers, it's a cuddly toy sheep that plays comforting heartbeat and womb sounds that mimic the noises babies heard while inside their mum. Eco-friendly nappies   More and more parents are conscious of not only the type of food they feed their little ones but the material they use to care for them, ensuring they're not only good for their baby but also for the environment.  As a result we saw a rise in popularity of organic baby care and eco-friendly nappies. Brands such as Childs Farm make a premium creams and bath range, while eco-friendly wipes and nappies are available from the likes of Cheeky Wipes and The Washable Nappy Company.  Electronic rockers  Many babies will only get to sleep by constantly being rocked. That's why the 2017 invention, Rockit Rocker, was such a fantastic innovation.  Simply clip it onto your pram or buggy and it will rock your baby to sleep in no time. Baby monitor Monitoring your baby has come on leaps and bounds over the past two decades.  Going from a walkie talkie style system to a visual monitor, and now to the latest – a sock by Owlet that fits onto your baby's foot and sends details on heartbeat, temperature and more – straight to your smart phone.  Bluebell is a great example, leading the way with its technology. As well as keeping track of baby's breathing, temperature and movement, it promotes sleep with things like white noise, lullabies, a gentle night light and the option to listen in and speak to baby. Milk prep machine Preparing milk in the middle of the night used to be a nightmare, but in 2018 Tommee Tippee launched its ingenious Perfect Prep Machine.  Its technology enables you to make sure the milk you give your baby is the perfect temperature in just two minutes, making preparing bottles quicker and more accurate.  Meal planner  Weaning queen Annabel Karmel launched her first book - The Complete Baby and Toddler Meal Planner - nearly 30 years ago and ever since she's been a household name. Her guides help families come up with creative and healthy meals for their little ones and teach them how to wean.  Her books have been a kitchen shelf essential, revolutionising the way we feed our babies and toddlers.  E-strollers Just as we've seen a surge in the electric car market, prams have also been given a technological overhaul.  In 2019 Cybex launched the e-Priam – a battery-operated electric pram which has an electric motor in the stroller that kicks in just when you need it. It's perfect for those on snow, rough terrain, ramps or steep hills, or just wanting a more comfortable ride!  Baby bath towel The Cuddledry was the brainchild of two Somerset mums in 2006 who saw that parents faced the same stressful juggling act with towel and baby at bath time.  They came up with the Cuddledry which enables mum or dad to cuddle their baby dry in their arms, naturally, happily and safely.  The original Cuddledry has won dozens of awards for its simple yet effective design. Grobag Lack of sleep is always the biggest issue that new parents face - which prompted the birth of the Grobag, a revolutionary baby sleep bag designed to keep your baby sleeping soundly.  Recommended by The Lullaby Trust, it's lightweight, safe and machine washable and keeps baby at a comfortable temperature throughout the night.  It can't guarantee a full night's sleep of course, but it certainly helps!  Lightweight car seat   Just like the cars themselves, baby car seats have evolved dramatically over the past two decades. The Maxi-Cosi CabrioFix is one of the best inventions. Lightweight and easy to use, it can be quickly and simply transferred from the car to any Maxi-Cosi or Quinny stroller. Skip Hop Changing Mat  Launched in 2003, the Skip Hop changing mat is smartly designed, functional, PVC-free, wipe clean, waterproof and an essential for parents on the go.  Their play mats are also a hit with parents as they're reversible and come with activity gyms included!  Classic high chair Eating together is one of the most important times in a family's day and high chairs are an essential way to get baby involved from the very start right up to the table.  The Stokke Tripp Trapp has been a stalwart for over 45 years as it can be adapted to grow with your child, lasting beside your kitchen table for generations. The Scandinavian invention has been a staple in many homes all over the world, having sold over 11 million worldwide. Jumperoo   The Fisher Price Jumperoo has been a family favourite for the past 10 years, encouraging your little one to bounce and kick.  Portable, affordable and so much fun, it's a must-have for little ones! For more information about The Baby Show visit www.thebabyshow.co.uk/excel  
