{ By Danyal Hussain For Mailonline   Published:  15:17, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016493/Property-firm-BANS-staff-claiming-expenses-meals-contain-MEAT.html }
A property firm has banned staff members from claiming expenses for meals that contain meat.  Developer Igloo Regeneration, which bills itself as Britain's leading 'responsible real estate business', told workers the move was a bid to reduce its environmental impact. It means that any catering or meals staff buy to entertain clients or workshops must be vegetarian if they want to get their money back. The company employs 30 people and they regularly work outside of the office. Kate Marfleet, 28, is head of the firm's values team and persuaded staff to go vegetarian last year, despite some opposition.  She said: 'We realised we needed the whole company to come on board, it couldn't just be imposed. 'We had some justifications as to why it was a good idea, mostly environmental. There were some reservations from staff, but most of those were based on them being unsure of the environmental impact.' Despite introducing the policy, Ms Marfleet admits that, outside of work she is not '100% vegetarian'.  The company also considered a vegan policy, but decided that would be too restrictive.   Director John Long told the BBC: 'We're not checking the bins. The important thing is that we want to treat everyone as a grown-up. We knew it could be controversial internally.'    Igloo also doesn't provide company cars and encourages its employees to use trains when they can. In 2018, office space sharing company WeWork said it was no longer serving red or white meat at company events. The New York-based company won't serve pork, poultry or red meat, and it won't allow employees to expense meals with those meats, co-founder and Chief Creative Officer Miguel McKelvey said in an email to employees at the time. Fish will stay on the menu at the company, which was valued at $20billion in 2018. McKelvey said the change means WeWork will use less water and produce less carbon dioxide as well as saving the lives of animals. WeWork has locations in 22 countries and a total of 75 cities, including 24 in the US.  
