{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:38, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016263/Uber-driver-53-shot-passengers-argued-going-wrong-way-arrested.html }
An Uber driver in Louisiana has been arrested for shooting at passengers after they left his vehicle mid-ride because he was going the wrong way.  Ahmad Ahmad, 53, picked up two people from a bar in downtown New Orleans at 12.04am Sunday and had been requested to take them to the Kenner area, about 15 miles away. But when the driver started going over the Mississippi River Bridge (Crescent City Connection) toward the Westbank and into Jefferson Parish, the pair complained to driver that he was going the wrong way. According to a police report, Ahmad and the passengers got into an argument and the driver stopped the car on the US 90 in Algiers. A call was made to police at this point, although it is not clear by whom.  During the verbal altercation one of the passengers ordered another Uber and when that driver arrived they switched cars. However Ahmad stopped them from going anywhere by opening the passenger side door and removing the key from the ignition, the incident report from the New Orleans Police Department states. The altercation then became physical between Ahmad and one of the passengers. It's unclear who started the fight. Ahmad ended up going back to his vehicle, retrieving a handgun, and fired shots at the passengers. As the victims fled the scene, Ahmad left in his car. Police say he later returned to the location and was arrested. He was booked into Orleans Parish jail on aggravated assault with a firearm, theft, and illegal use of weapons charges but has since been released.  It's unclear whether he has an attorney to comment on his behalf.  The victims have not been publicly identified, nor have their genders and ages.  Authorities did not disclose whether there were any injuries. Uber has a no firearms policy. When contacted by DailyMail.com, the company said it had already been made aware of the incident. Uber told DailyMail.com in a comment: 'What’s been reported is unacceptable and would be in clear violation of our community guidelines. We’re looking into the matter and have removed the driver’s access to the Uber app.' Anyone with information regarding this incident is asked to contact Fourth District detectives at 504-658-6040. 
