cars
{ By Alexander Robertson For Mailonline   Published:  07:49, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8015199/Britons-battered-Storm-Dennis-face-misery-three-day-deluge.html }
Thousands of Britons are being forced to abandon their homes as the country battles the worst floods in 200 years in the aftermath of Storm Dennis, with four more days of rain this week set to result in a 'national emergency'.   Officials are urging residents in South Wales, Yorkshire, Shropshire, Worcestershire and Herefordshire to evacuate, warning the UK is 'not out of the woods yet' and they risk their own safety if they stay put.  Communities worst-hit by last weekend's storm are braced for further misery tomorrow when two inches of rain falls in just 24 hours. York, Sheffield and Leeds face up to another three inches of downpours throughout Friday, which the Met Office say won't relent until the early hours of Saturday.   There are still 350 flood alerts in place nationwide - including six severe 'danger to life' warnings - with the latest put in place after the River Severn burst its banks.  More than 1,000 rescue workers are battling around the clock to save people from their inundated homes before more rain hits.  In Monmouth pensioners were carried out on inflatable stretchers, while in Ironbridge, Shropshire, families were left clutching their possessions - including their pets - in a bid to save them from muddy flood water inside their properties. The Prime Minister has so far resisted calls to arrange a meeting of the Government's emergency Cobra committee and has no plans to visit any of the areas devastated by flooding. He is believed to be staying at the Chevening Estate in Sevenoaks, Kent, with his partner Carrie Symonds while Parliament is in recess.  Questions will now turn to the UK's flood defences amid accusations the Government is not doing enough to protect the 5.2million Britons currently living in flood-risk areas.  From 2015 - when Storm Eva caused chaos for rural communities over Christmas - to 2018, there were 493 projects carried out, with more than 150,000 homes receiving various levels of flood defences. A further 499 projects are scheduled throughout England between 2019 and 2021, which the Government claims will protect another 341,875 homes.  But last year, the Environment Agency warned that the UK needs to spend at least £1billion a year to adequately protect houses from flooding, with government spending currently at just under two thirds of that at £600million. Boris Johnson's government has pledged to spend £4billion strengthening flood defences over the next five years, but environmentalists have argued the figure falls short of what is required. Since 1910, the Met Office logged that there were 17 record-breaking months of rainfall, nine of those have happened just since the year 2000. As well as 1,000 staff, the Environment Agency claims three miles of barriers have been deployed and 90 pumps are now in action.   The latest flood warning, for the River Severn in Telford, prompted the evacuation of about 30 properties as water pressure caused the road surface to crack and levels threatened to overtop the barrier. Residents of the Wharfage, located along the river, were being taken to a cafe on the High Street in Ironbridge while 21 cars parked in the area were taken to a nearby park and ride to save them from flooding, Telford and Wrekin Council said. Affected areas in Bridgnorth include Severn Terrace, Riverside and local caravan parks. The council said the river's flood peak was moving towards the Ironbridge Gorge and was expected to arrive there later on Tuesday while the Environment Agency said river levels could reach 22ft by the afternoon. Environment Agency manager for Herefordshire and Worcestershire Dave Throup, who has said the level of flooding has left affected areas in 'uncharted territory', added that water is at 'exceptionally high levels' around Ironbridge and Bridgnorth. Chief Superintendent Tom Harding, from West Mercia Police, warned: 'We know some people want to stay in their homes but we would really ask that for their own safety they find alternative arrangements. 'The levels could remain high for a few days and while they are fine now, the situation could change rapidly.  'Not only are they risking their own safety but the safety of emergency services who ultimately could have to rescue them.'    Hollywood star George Clooney and other multi-millionaire residents in the upmarket village of Sonning were nervously watching water levels rising in the flooded River Thames this afternoon.  Homes close to the river may have to order sandbags to stop the river lapping into their homes if the levels continue.  The Thames is a raging torrent where it runs along the bottom of the garden of the £10 million converted mill which the actor and wife Amal bought in 2014, and where they live with their young twins. Former Prime Minister Theresa May also has a home in the village though she is on safer ground as it is higher up, away from the river. The Environment Agency advised residents in Sonning and other villages this afternoon to avoid contact with flood water.  There was relief in Upton upon Severn and Uckinghall in Worcestershire this morning that flood defences had not been breached. But Mr Throup urged people in those areas to 'remain vigilant'. He added: 'There may be some short-term drops in levels but they may well rise again. We're certainly not out of the woods yet, there is quite a long way to go with this flood.' The River Wye reached its highest levels on record on Monday, peaking at around 20ft, with residents in Hereford saying they had never seen anything like it.  Meanwhile, the River Trent, which had prompted a severe flood warning for Burton-on-Trent, also peaked at record levels of just below 13ft on Tuesday. John Curtin, Environment Agency executive director of flood and coastal risk management, said defences had held strong, protecting more than 5,000 properties in the area. In Ironbridge, retired foundry worker Graham Hickman, 70, said the flooding is the worst he has ever seen. He said: 'I've lived here since 1950 and the last time it was this bad was 2000. We've been told the river will peak about 6pm tonight. 'I'm not concerned about it at the moment but it's certainly the worst I can remember it being. We're all very resolute here in Ironbridge but people are very worried about what will happen. I'm worried for the town and what it will mean for tourism.'   A local wine and cocktail bar has been turned into a contact point for residents who want to escape their homes, as no official refuge has been offered by the council.   It is not just humans that are dealing with the fallout from Storm Dennis. The extreme wet weather has flooded many low-lying badger setts in North Wales and damaged the structures of those on high ground. Mal Ingham, former head ranger for Wirral Council, says that, like humans, badgers are 'very reluctant' to leave their homes. Mr Ingham, who has been monitoring local wildlife for over 30 years, says that the conditions will have a 'tremendous impact' on the animals. 'This sort of weather where it's torrential and constant, it drowns badgers even though they're good swimmers. If they're trapped underground they will drown.' Mike Perks, owner of Cleo's cocktail and wine bar said: 'We don't usually open on a Tuesday but the council rang us last night and asked us to help.  'We've opened especially today so people can come in and get info from the council. 'People are pretty buoyant to be honest. Everyone was in here early this morning and we supplied coffees, teas and bacon sandwiches. There's a real Dunkirk spirit.' Josh Curtis, 25, is a manager at the White Hart pub, which is directly opposite the river and the flood barriers in Ironbridge. He said: 'We're not worried. We've put all safety protocols on place. but as you can see the water is quite high.  'I've never seen it this bad. We've had to cancel all our dinner and overnight reservations.' Across the river from the town centre is a small group of cottages built directly on the riverbank called Ladywood. Residents have been told to evacuate, but some are staying put. Engineer Ian Amos, 60, said he is confident his own commercial flood defences would work. He said: 'I've lived here since spring 2019 and this is the worst I've seen it.  'We're a bit higher here than some of the other houses on our row and I think the water won't breach us.  He added that the flooding was just part and parcel of living so close to the river, saying: 'We've moved into the most beautiful part of the world and this is just one consequence.  'If it becomes dangerous then obviously we'll leave.' Stu Mason, 40, said: 'It hasn't been this bad since 2000. Worried isn't the right word, it's just upsetting at the moment and inconvenient.' Phil Stirling said: 'We haven't been told to leave yet. So far the only thing in the house is the cellar.'  Drinking water supplies have been hit after Storm Dennis flooded a treatment works in Monmouthshire. Welsh Water has asked people in Monmouth to reduce their usage and has bottled water in case reserves run out before it can restore the supply. Natural Resources Wales has two severe flood warnings, meaning a danger to life, in force in the county town and the River Wye has reached a record high. Homes were evacuated on Monday night and water levels at Monmouth reached 23ft by Tuesday morning. Due to the floods, Welsh Water staff have been unable to get to the treatment works in Mayhill. The firm said the plant has flooded and has lost power. 'Due to the unprecedented flooding in the Monmouth area, we are unable to access our water treatment works in Mayhill,' a spokesman said. 'Despite the measures we put in place, the site has flooded and there is currently no power at the site. As a result, we have limited storage of drinking water until we're able to access and restart the treatment works.' It comes after the River Wye reached its highest levels on record on Monday, peaking at around 20ft, with the Environment Agency describing levels as 'exceptional' and residents in Hereford saying they had never seen anything like it. EA manager for Herefordshire and Worcestershire Dave Throup said the level of flooding is difficult to believe. Mr Throup, who is from Worcestershire, tweeted on Monday night: 'I've seen things today I would not have believed. Large parts of my home town and village are underwater tonight. This is not normal flooding, we are in uncharted territory.' West Mercia Police advised people in Upton-upon-Severn and Uckinghall in Worcestershire to evacuate on Monday evening due to rising levels on the River Severn. Assistant Chief Constable Geoff Wessell said there was a 'level of relief' for Upton-upon-Severn on Tuesday morning as flood defences appeared not to have been breached. He told BBC Breakfast: 'It's not overtopped. Preparations were made. We've had good support from the locals to leave if they needed to. But a level of relief for us.' Mr Wessell advised people to remain cautious, not to drive through floodwater and to remain ready to leave their homes if they need to.  Five people have died as result of Storm Dennis, with the family of Yvonne Booth, who was swept away by floodwater near Tenbury in Worcestershire on Sunday, saying they have been left 'devastated' after her body was found on Monday. The 55-year-old, from the Great Barr area of Birmingham, was described as a 'very much loved member of our family' in a statement from relatives, released through police. Hereford and Worcester Fire and Rescue Service said it had pulled one man from the River Teme at Eastham Bridge on Sunday morning, with a female casualty still unaccounted for as of about 4pm. A man in his 60s also died on Sunday after being pulled from the River Tawe near Trebanos Rugby Club in Wales, but Dyfed-Powys Police said his death was not being linked to the bad weather. A 42-year-old hill walker was found dead after he went hiking in the Scottish Highlands on Sunday.    Police were scrambled to Stob Ban, a 3,278ft munro located on the south side of Glen Nevis, northwest of Kinlochleven, Highlands at around 1pm on Sunday, but he was pronounced dead at the scene.  The bodies of two men were pulled from rough seas off Kent on Saturday as the UK was struck by a storm for the second weekend in a row.   Other severe flood warnings remain in place for the River Severn at Upton upon Severn and Uckinghall, the River Wye at Hereford and Hampton Bishop, the River Trent at Burton upon Trent and the River Lugg at Hampton Bishop. In Wales, there are two severe warnings in place on the River Wye at Monmouth in what Natural Resources Wales called both 'defended' and 'undefended' areas. Homes in Monmouth were evacuated and the organisation said the river had gone above seven metres by Tuesday morning.   Met Office meteorologist Marco Petagna said Tuesday will bring a brief respite from the worst of the weather for most of the UK, with sunny spells and showers, but warned areas of Wales could see downpours. 'With the ground being so saturated, it's not going to help the situation. And there's more persistent rain coming on Wednesday.' A Norman abbey built more than 900 years ago has become a beacon for rural communities struck by some of the worst floods in living memory. The idyllic Tewkesbury Abbey has survived countless flooding disasters in the Gloucestershire market town - from where it takes its name - over the years. As well as its close proximity to both the River Avon and River Severn, picturesque Tewkesbury also has watercourses such as the River Swilgate and the Tirle Brook running through it, making it a major flood risk. Aerial photographs of the former Benedictine monastery marooned on what is now known locally as the Isle of Tewkesbury have become iconic reminders of some of the most significant floods of the past 20 years. While the town has suffered repeatedly at the hands of burst riverbanks and heavy rainfall, Tewkesbury Abbey has stood strong throughout notorious storms such as the ones that blighted the county in 2007, 2012 and 2019. In that time it has suffered very minor flood damage, and has once again avoided irreparable ruin this week following Storm Dennis, which has left hundreds of homes surrounding it submerged in water. Thanks to its slightly-elevated land, the church avoided mostly any damage in the floods of July 2007, when a drone first photographed the abbey rising up above the floods in a photo that captured the whole country's attention. During the Great Flood that year, in the region of 1,800 homes were submerged and the whole town was briefly cut off from the rest of the country. It survived yet another big scare in 2012, when the wettest April on record saw the River Severn burst its banks and cause widespread flooding throughout the town. But once again, the abbey stood tall. The next big flood in Tewkesbury would come in October last year, when heavy rain saw the 'quickest flooding in years'. While the water flooded dozens of homes for the first time in years, the church remained untouched. 
