{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:49, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/cars/article-7999539/Unexpected-car-finance-fees-set-drivers-1-200-year.html }
Drivers could be spending nearly £1,200 more than necessary on car finance deals after being hit with a range of hidden and unexpected costs, new research has revealed. Some 2.4million motorists spent a total of £37.6billion on car finance last year - equivalent to an average of £15,500 each, according to Admiral Financial Services. However, these drivers are warned the costs could accelerate to a much higher amount if they miss additional upfront and end of contract charges. Admiral found that not shopping around for a better deal could cost drivers £736 each year. Third party finance charges, admin fees and over mileage charges are some of the other reasons that motorists could find themselves out of pocket. This is Money, with the help of Admiral, reveals how drivers could end up spending more than they intended and provides useful tips on how they can lower these charges or avoid them altogether. For many people a car is the second largest financial commitment they make each month, after paying a mortgage or rent. But one of the biggest 'hidden' costs of buying a vehicle on finance can be the simple mistake of failing to shop around for a finance provider - and the potential savings are considerable. Admiral compared costs from ten different providers' finance deals based on equally priced cars. It found an average APR of 11.8 per cent compared and lowest representative of 7.9 per cent APR, meaning drivers could save on average £736, just by arranging the finance for their car before heading to the garage. This figure could jump to £2,136 based on cases with an APR of 13.9 per cent - the highest rate found as part of the investigation. Admiral also revealed that saving just one per cent on the cost of hire purchase car finance, by paying 11 per cent instead of 12 per cent APR, could save drivers around £190 over four years, which is enough to cover the cost of 1,724 miles worth of petrol. While not shopping around for finance can prove costly, drivers are also urged to be aware of a potential charge for using third party car finance. Some car dealerships that provide partnered finance for customers impose charges to buyers who want to pay for their car using a finance agreement they've arranged themselves from a 'third party'. Admiral found the average charge for third party finance was £365, with the highest charge found as part of the investigation coming in at £495. Some garages charge buyers an 'administration fee', the purpose of which varied between dealerships including provision of documentation and vehicle preparation. The average charge for admin fees found as part of the investigation was £169, with the highest fee coming in at £199. Car finance personal contract purchase (PCP) agreements are based on drivers sticking to the annual mileage limits laid out in the agreement, with providers advising customers that exceeding the limits will incur charges and stating upfront what these are. However, whilst a small pence per mile charge might not seem very much at first glance, it was revealed that driving just an extra two miles a day over the course of a four year agreement could add up to 3,000 extra miles and cost drivers an extra £286 on average at the end of the deal. Drivers are reminded of the importance to estimate their mileage to the best of their ability to avoid exceeding their limit.  Some customers should allow some contingency mileage to ensure unexpected additional journeys don't end up adding unexpected costs. Reviewing the excess mileage charges for 10 finance agreements from five different providers, Admiral found an average over mileage charge of 9.52 pence per mile (ppm), based on deals with mileage limits of 6,000 to 10,000 miles per annum. The highest rate found was 20.4ppm for exceeding 8,000 miles a year, the equivalent of 22 miles per day.  In this case, driving 3,000 extra miles in total over the course of a four year contract would result in a charge of nearly £612 at the end of the deal. Consumers could also face charges if they try to pay off their finance agreement early.  Many providers detail their early repayment charges clearly but drivers are reminded to bear in mind that if their situation changes and they need to exit their agreement it will not be cost free. Consumers are also within their rights to voluntary terminate from a finance agreement.  However, voluntary termination can only be done once 50 per cent or more of the amount owed, including loan amount, deposit and interest, has been repaid. Another potential cost is for cars being returned that have suffered damage.  With finance agreements where drivers must return the car at the end of the contract, rather than become outright owners, they need to take the best possible care of the car to avoid any additional costs as large scratches, scuffs or stains. Whilst deposits on rental properties, for example, are usually refundable at the end of the agreement, drivers are reminded that deposits paid when purchasing a car don't work in the same way, and should be thought of as a down payment as they are not a sum that is returned to a customer at the end of the deal. Scott Cargill, chief executive of Admiral Financial Services, said: 'Purchasing a car on finance is a popular option for many drivers as it allows them to drive a new or nearly new car and spread the costs over monthly payments rather than having to pay in one go.  'Where consumers could lose out substantially is if they are hit with additional charges that they simply haven't budgeted for. 'We'd urge people to shop around before signing up to any financial agreement, as they would for any large purchase, to ensure they're aware of any restrictions on mileage and car condition charges upfront.  'Research is key when it comes to car finance and making sure you're not only aware of charges but also understand them before you sign on the dotted line could save you a lot of money in the long run.' This is Money, with Admiral Car Insurance, have put together a list of top tips to help motorists buying a car on finance.  1. Know what you are signing up for: Admiral research revealed Brits are confused by industry jargon with 68 per cent unable to identify HP as meaning Hire Purchase.  If you're unsure of what the different finance types are, research them before you head to the garage. 2. Stick to your budget: Work out what you can afford to spend monthly, but don't forget to factor in costs like car insurance, fuel, road tax, MOTs and servicing – that way you won't be caught out with unexpected costs. 3. Work out your expected mileage: Think about how far you usually drive in a year and be realistic.  Make sure the deal you are signing up for will cover you, paying for excess mileage afterwards will be significantly more expensive. 4. Ask plenty of questions: Ask about additional charges, what they're for and how much they are upfront if you don't understand them.  The more informed you are before you take out an agreement, the less likely you are to be stung by unexpected charges. 5. Shop around: It might seem time saving to sign up to an agreement straight away but shopping around could save you a considerable amount of money.     
