cars
{ By Shive Prema For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:11, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8014983/Cairns-teenage-girls-charged-bashing-robbery-schoolgirl-Bentley-Park.html }
Three teenage girls have been charged over the alleged assault and robbery of a 15-year-old girl in Queensland's far north after a shocking video was posted online.  The teenage victim was allegedly surrounded by a group of children known to her as she walked along Bicentennial Road in the Cairns suburb of Bentley Park at 3pm on Saturday.  The gang of youths then allegedly punched and kicked her to the ground and demanded money before stealing a small amount of cash and fleeing the scene.  Police also allege that members of the group filmed the attack angles and later shared the vision on social media. On Monday, Queensland Police arrested and charged four teenagers, three girls and a boy aged 13 to 16, in relation to the alleged attack.  Two of the teenagers were also charged with a number of unrelated offences, including the alleged theft of four cars from a community health centre.   At a press conference on Monday, Queensland police inspector Jason Smith said the video was 'horrific'.  'This video depicts a number of teenage girls assaulting another girl who's on the ground and the assault is really quite horrendous,' Inspector Smith said.  'It does make it disturbing (that they recorded it), because it suggests these people are proud of what they've done. There's nothing to be proud of in this.'  In the clip of the alleged robbery, a group of youths chase after a girl and tackle her to the ground before at least five people surround her.  Three people argued over who's 'turn' it was to hit the girl while one person repeatedly punches the girl's face as she screams and whimpers.  The same person then takes come coins from the girl and says 'grab this money' before handing it to another person.   'I give you money! I'll go home right now and give you money! I don't care, please,' the 15-year-old victim pleaded.  Four teenagers were charged in relation to the alleged robbery on Monday, two receiving charges in relation to a number of additional offences.    A 13-year-old Bentley Park girl and a 15-year-old Mooroobool girl were charged with assault occasioning bodily harm in company and stealing. Meanwhile, a 16-year-old Earlville girl was charged with three counts of stealing and one count each of assault occasioning bodily harm in company, distributing child exploitation material.  She was also charged with unlawful use of a motor vehicle, driving unlicensed and wilful damage in relation to the community health centre car theft.   A 13-year-old Bentley Park boy was charged with two counts of unlawful use of a motor vehicle and one count each of distributing child exploitation material, making child exploitation material, robbery in company with violence.    He was also charged with enter premises and commit indictable offence, receiving tainted property and wilful damage by graffiti.     All four cars stolen from the community health centre have been recovered and investigations are continuing into both incidents.  
