cars
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  02:44, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8014757/WA-government-moves-ban-wheel-clamping.html }
Wheel clamping will be banned in Western Australia under proposed legislation backed by the opposition, with the state government labelling the practice predatory and a "disgraceful scam". The announcement on Monday follows public outrage over a series of wheel clamping blitzes at strip shopping precincts and popular locations including Scarborough Beach. Many people say the enforcers lurk nearby, ready to pounce, while the signage about the parking restrictions isn't always clear. Premier Mark McGowan said clamping was "un-Australian" and "infuriating". "The people doing this are often thugs and bullies," Mr McGowan said on Tuesday. "This is annoying the hell out of people all over Perth and we're going to make sure that it stops because it is wrong. "It is unfairly targeting innocent people and it's making money out of people who shouldn't have to pay and can't afford to pay." City of Stirling mayor Mark Irwin said clamping was keeping customers away from businesses. "These people are sitting in their cars and waiting to make the most, to make a buck out of people," Mr Irwin said. Under the state government's plan, towing will be the last resort for illegally-parked cars on private property, an attempt must be made to contact the vehicle owner, costs will be capped and WA Police must be notified. Transport Minister Rita Saffioti said the draft bill was being modelled on similar legislation in Queensland, Victoria and NSW. Opposition leader Liza Harvey said the Liberals supported the proposal "on principle 100 per cent" but would scrutinise the legislation to ensure it would worked effectively. She said it was one of the single biggest issues in her electorate of Scarborough. "It has actually harmed trade to some of the small businesses because people are too frightened to park," Ms Harvey said. "It's a real awful practice - we've had so many complaints. "Some of these individuals behave unconscionably." Ms Harvey said she was once clamped within five minutes after parking outside businesses that weren't open and had to pay $170 to get it removed after waiting about an hour. "Now that's just not fair." Wheel clamping company AutoClamp declined to comment. 
