cars
{ By Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  00:27, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8013947/Legendary-Bathurst-V8-champions-break-tears-iconic-car-brand-Holden-AXED.html }
International motorsport legends say they are fighting back tears after the sudden collapse of iconic car brand Holden.  Australian racing great Mark Skaife was among those who were crippled with emotion after one of Australia's most popular brands announced they were closing on Monday.  The racing legend told Sky News despite 'worrying signs' he didn't expect to see the company's collapse in his lifetime. 'Two of us were battling to hold back the tears it was one of those ones where I know we might be big sooks, it's a very very big change to a landscape that I never envisaged, I just never in my lifetime thought there would be a day when we would see Holden move out of this country,' he said. Skaife has won the Bathurst 1000 six times as a Holden Ambassador before retiring in 2008. He described the company as something so iconically Australian, it was like losing a part of the culture when the news broke on Monday.   'It's been part of the social fabric of Australia you've either been blue or you've been red- the reality around football, meat pies, kangaroos and Holden cars- it's been part of our psyche,' Mr Skaife said.  One of Holden's most famous drivers Bathurst V8 Champion Greg Murphy also shared similar sentiments, saying he's still reeling from the abrupt announcement. 'I think it's going to be for quite some time. It is a bit of a shock, I think just because of the history that so many people have had and the memories and the thought that the brand would be here for eternity,' he said.  But Murphy said he understood the reasoning behind the move, saying ultimately it came down to finances.  'It's not making financial sense any more and they had to do something about it. Hard decisions had to be made,' he said.  After closing the company's local manufacturing operations in 2017, GM announced on Monday it would retire the brand in both Australia and New Zealand.  GM will not just axe the Holden name but also stop selling cars in Australia. Holden has suffered recent crumbling domestic sales, while GM also announced plans to shut a car plant in Thailand and withdraw the Chevrolet brand from the market there.    Together the two shutdowns will cost the US multinational more than $1billion. GM has pledged to provide 'fair' redundancy packages for its 600 staff members left in limbo, with most to be gone by the end of June.  Ms Aquilina described the shutdown decision as 'agonising' but said the company had chased down 'every conceivable option' to keep the brand afloat. 'Every strategy, every plan, we looked under every rock,' he said on Monday. 'We've tried to find a way to defy gravity. 'But the hard truth was there was just no way to come up with a plan that would support a competitive and growing and flourishing Holden and also provide a sufficient return to our investors. 'I'm personally convinced GM tried everything to keep Holden going.'   Holden's parent company told the ABC drivers will still have access to warranty, spare parts, servicing and recalls 'for at least the next 10 years'. GM Holden's interim managing director Kristian Aquilina told the public broadcaster those services will 'work in exactly the same way as they do today' and Holden owners won't be affected in any way.    Daniel Gardner, from WhichCar magazine, said GM has a legal obligation on after-sales promises. 'If the words of the executive team are to be trusted - and they must be, because Holden is legally obliged to support existing owners for a number of years - Holden's saying 10 years [ongoing support],' he said. 'If you own a Holden and have only just bought one, you'll be able to service it, buy parts, and there'll be after-sales care there for 10 years at least. Not a lot will change.'  Around 200 people will be kept in a job in order to transition to this new system solely for after-sales. Holden's closure will see 600 jobs cut in areas such as management, marketing and engineering.   Production on the cars ends in June - however avid fans can buy cars still in showrooms or recently coming out of the factory. It is expected no Holden cars will be available for purchase by 2021.  1856 - Holden begins as a South Australian saddlery business. 1917 - Holden manufactures vehicle bodies. 1931 - General Motors buys Holden Motor Body Builders. 1948 - The FX, the first Australian-designed car, is released. 1951 - Holden's first ute goes on sale. 1958 - South Australian manufacturing plant opens at Elizabeth, though it does not assemble its first full car until 1965. 1968 - Kingswood and Monaro enter the market. 1969 - Holden makes its first V8 engine. 1971 - Holden launches the HQ model. Considered by some to be the best Holden ever. 1978 - Commodore replaces Kingswood. 1990 - Holden's last Australian boss, John Bagshaw, quits. 2003 - Holden opens $400 million V6 engine plant at Port Melbourne, exports to Korea, China and Mexico begin. Toyota takes Holden's position as top-selling car brand. 2009 - Parent company, General Motors, files for bankruptcy in the US but survives. 2013 - Prime minister Tony Abbott says the government will reduce support for automotive manufacturers despite appeals for help. 2013 - Holden decides to end manufacturing in Australia by 2017. The Holden Commodore is to become a fully-imported car. 2017 - The company rolls its last car off the assembly line on October 20, ending more than 50 years of car production on the Elizabeth site. 2019 - GM announces it will discontinue its Commodore and Astra models in 2020. 2020 - General Motors announces the retirement of the Holden brand in Australia and New Zealand.  Source: AAP THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S NOT HAPPY 'I am angry ... they took money from Australian taxpayers for all those years just to let the Holden brand wither on their watch - that's disappointing.' Prime Minister Scott Morrison, noting governments had contributed more than $2 billion to GM. 'Holden is walking away from Australia.' Trade Minister Karen Andrews. BUT THE UNION BLAMES THE GOVERNMENT 'This conservative government ... have consistently refused to support Australian manufacturing and we are seeing the result of that, with over 600 jobs being lost at Holden.' Australian Manufacturing Workers' Union representative Donherra Walmsley. HOLDEN DEALERS ARE REELING 'They knew they were doing it tough but their understanding was, from the interim (Holden) CEO, that they would be working towards a bigger plan in the hope of turning it around. But obviously that is not to be. It's come as a huge blow to our dealers.' Australian Automotive Dealer Association chief Brian Savage. EVEN FORD ARE SADDENED THEIR RIVAL IS LEAVING 'All of us here at Ford Australia are saddened to hear the news that Holden will cease operations. Holden is an iconic brand that holds a special place in the heart of many Australians, and has done so much to shape the Australian automotive industry and the country.' Ford on twitter. BUT GM'S BOSS IS JUST AS SAD 'We're heartbroken ... On behalf of Holden and General Motors it has been an absolute privilege for Holden to be there with so many of you for those important experiences in life - family holidays, getting tradies to work, getting your L plates and getting your P plates. Bringing home a newborn. First jobs, last jobs.' interim Chairman and Managing Director Kristian Aquilina.  Source: AAP  
