{ By Alisha Buaya For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  22:14, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8013765/Sunrise-newsreader-Natalie-Barr-shares-fond-memories-Holden-car.html }
As news of Holden's closure makes waves across the country, celebrities have shared their fond memories of the iconic car brand. Sunrise newsreader Natalie Barr, 51, revealed her first car was a Gemini model - which was produced from 1975 to 1986. In photos she shared on Instagram, a young Natalie proudly beamed next to her grey vehicle,with a red P plate hanging in the windscreen. She told viewers she had an accident in the car, when four nuns run into her car with their car - ironically a Commodore, another popular Holden model. Speaking about the damage caused, Natalie said: 'It was the passenger side door all the way down they got every panel.' 'They T-boned you?' co-host Samantha Armytage asked. 'Yeah they came off the stop sign, but let's not remember that too much. Anyway it was rebuilt after that and it still went like a treat,' Natalie said. Meanwhile, over on rival breakfast show Today, co-host Allison Langdon also shared photos from her childhood and the Holden vehicles she grew up around - including her father's utility truck, which she fondly called a 'paddock basher'. 'We grew up as a Holden family,' she explained as a photo of her father's other work ute was shown. Another photo was of her father's Holden HR, which caught her co-hosts Karl Stefanovic and sports presenter Alex Cullen's eyes. As the photograph of the striking car was shown, Allison explained: 'My sister got married in the HR.' 'But my dad used to drop us off in that thing and we used to make him drop us off down the road or we would hide in the backseat because we were embarrassed.' Karl also revealed that he used to own a Holden EJ and he would get into a bit of trouble driving into the Channel Nine parking lot. 'Whenever it rained, because it had the drum brakes, it would be impossible to stop and I touched it once and I went sailing right on past and the security guys are like hey,' he recalled. On Monday, parent company General Motors announced they will retire the Holden brand after 72 years. The closure will leave 600 employees without a job. Production on the cars ends in June - however avid fans can buy cars still in showrooms or recently coming out of the factory.  It is expected no Holden cars will be available for purchase by 2021.  
