cars
{ By Daily Mail Australia Reporter and Aap   Published:  21:15, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8013945/Holden-car-sale-collapse-Australias-iconic-brand.html }
Motorists could save thousands of dollars off the list price of a new Holden as dealers desperately attempt to get rid of remaining stock in the wake of the brand's collapse. General Motors on Monday announced they were 'retiring' the iconic Australian brand by 2021 after plunging domestic sales for Holden vehicles.  GM and Holden have pledged to work closely with all their workers offering generous redundancy packages to about 600 staff across Australia and New Zealand. Most will be gone by June. 'We are all hurting,' Holden interim Chairman and Managing Director Kristian Aquilina said in an open letter published in newspapers across the country on Tuesday. The decision to close comes amid plunging domestic sales with demand for Holden vehicles down by almost 29 per cent to just 43,176 in 2019, in a total market down just eight per cent. GM has committed to providing compensation to Holden dealers to allow them to transition to other brands or close down. Car dealers will learn within 24 to 48 hours how far they will be able to discount their remaining stock, Car Advice reported.   Dealers who spoke anonymously to the publication believe the discounts, which could amount be between $2000 and $10,000 per car, should help clear all remaining showroom models.  'It won't take long,' one car dealer said. 'I reckon everyone will be sold out of their Holden stock within weeks not months. No-one wants to hang onto them now, we want to get rid of them as quickly as possible or even put them on the used-car lot.'   It's also understood anyone who recently signed a contract to buy a new Holden may be able to renegotiate the price.  Car Advice have seen a confidential Holden bulletin which outlined the plans to 'move quite quickly'. The Holden dealers would also be offered counselling alongside the compensation.    'We are concerned to ensure your personal and emotional wellbeing and will be making available counselling services should you require them,' part of the bulletin signed by Holden boss Kristian Aquilina said.    
