cars
{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:56, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8039231/Woman-friends-hide-chicken-leftovers-houses-TWO-HALF-YEARS.html }
A 23-year-old has revealed that she and her friends have been hiding her 'grilled chicken leftovers' at each other's houses for two and a half years as part of a hilarious ongoing prank.  TikTok user Katelyn Daly filmed two videos about how the practical joke came about, explaining it all started when they all went out for dinner and drinks for their friend Nina's 21st birthday in August 2017.  'I ordered the chicken, but I get full really fast, so I got a box to go. Then we went out for the night and back to the hotel,' she said. 'The next morning we were really hungover. We had to drive home, so, of course, I brought my chicken home with me.' Scroll down for video   Katelyn said all of her friends were complaining that 'it smelled bad on the ride home' because they were all hungover.    'Jordan complained from all the way in the front of the car, and the chicken was in the trunk, so I was like, you know what, I've had it,' she recalled. 'When we get back to Jordan's to get our cars, I'm gonna take my chicken and put it under her bed and see if she smells it.' The first video ends with footage of Katelyn taking the box of leftovers and putting it underneath her friend's bed.  For most people, the prank would have ended there, but in the second clip, Katelyn explained how it turned into an ongoing joke.  'Don’t worry we keep it frozen in between,' she noted in the caption. 'Yes we’re disgusting, but we’re also hilarious.  Katelyn said that after Jordan found the chicken under her bed, she tied it to Nina's car. Then Nina brought it back to school and waited until September 2017 to give it to Alyssa for her 21st birthday.   'When Alyssa found it, she saved it to give to Jordan for her 21st birthday and we hid it in her closet,' Katelyn continued. 'After Jordan found it, we opened it up to look at it. Then we immediately put it in Marissa's car, and she found it when she got home the next morning.' The pals took a nine-month break from swapping the chicken, but in June 2018 Katelyn found it on her car and eventually gave it back to Marissa. When Nina got it for her birthday, they 'celebrated one year of having the chicken.'   Nina held onto the chicken for months and finally gave it to Alyssa in 2019 in honor of April Fools' Day. That same month, Alyssa mailed the chicken to Jordan's apartment. Jordan then left it on Katelyn's car, and she gave it back to Nina the night before their trip to Los Angeles in May 2019.  'At Jordan's little sister's grad party, we had the caterers bring it and surprise her with it,' Katelyn explained.  'A few months later, we burned the original box and put it in a new bag and had a little photo shoot for the chicken's second birthday. Then Alyssa got it for her birthday again.  'Most recently, we snuck it under Jordan's tree for her to open Christmas Day with her family, which by the look on his face, her dad totally seemed to love.' Katelyn's second video has been viewed more than 2.2. million times and thousands of people commented on how amazing her friends are.    'This is the most dedicated friend group ever,' one person wrote.  'The chicken best be a bridesmaid when one of y'all gets married,' another added, and Katelyn agreed.  'It's definitely gonna be a wedding gift for each of us,' she replied.  
