{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  15:03, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8012285/Typhoon-Hagibis-sales-tax-rise-causes-Japans-economy-slump-six-year-low.html }
Japan's economy contracted by 6.3 per cent in the last quarter of 2019 after it was hit by a sharp fall in consumer spending and Typhoon Hagibis. Despite a highly successful Rugby World Cup, both on and off the field, the world's third largest economy experienced its largest annualised fall in GDP since 2014 and is now on course to enter recession.  A sales tax hike introduced by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government has been blamed by many economists for causing consumer spending to fall by 2.9 per cent in the three months from October to December. The tax increase from 8 per cent to 10 per cent in October was brought in to cut the economy's giant public debt pile, which is more than double the size of Japan's economy. But households have responded by cutting their spending. Domestic demand fell in the quarter at an annual pace of 8 per cent, with cars, household appliances, and winter items saw lower demand. It was the biggest fall in quarterly economic output since 2014, when Japan underwent a 7.4 per cent contraction in GDP soon after Abe's administration also raised the sales tax. Private consumption dropped by 18 per cent. This time around, the government introduced numerous exemptions to try and stave off any major economic damage, such as a $120billion stimulus package in December and tax breaks on new car and home purchases.   Business investment also fell during the quarter due to weak construction spending while imports and exports fell.  The Rugby World Cup hosted in Japan was predicted to give a $4billion boost to the economy, according to accountancy firm Ernst & Young. Typhoon Hagibis brought enormous disruption to the country though, with insurer Aon estimating that the disaster caused around $15billion worth of damages.  Economists are now expecting the coronavirus outbreak to push the country into a recession, as the number of tourists from China dries up and businesses shut down production at factories.  Taro Saito, Executive research fellow at NLI Research Institute, said: 'There's a pretty good chance the economy will suffer another contraction in January-March.  'The virus will mainly hit inbound tourism and exports, but could also weigh on domestic consumption quite a lot.' Chinese tourism to Japan has quadrupled in the last five years to over 9.5 million and equals about a third of all foreign visitors to the Land of Cherry Blossoms. But about 400,000 Chinese tourists are expected to cancel their holidays to the 'Land of Cherry Blossoms' by the end of March according to the Japanese Association of Travel Agents. Worries over the illness have escalated to such an extent that public birthday celebrations for Emperor Naruhito have been cancelled, while the Tokyo Marathon, due to take place on March 1, has been limited to a few hundred participants. The 'Big Three' car companies Toyota, Nissan, and Honda have all shut down production at its Chinese car plants due to the Covid-19 epidemic, while Nissan has also been harmed by declining sales.  Kerstin Braun, president of financial services firm Stenn Group writes that the economic shrinkage 'is a worrying sign if you are looking for an indicator of the health of the global economy.  She added: 'Japan boasts the third largest economy in the world, so if it contracts again in the next quarter they will be staring down the barrel of a recession.  Given the impact the coronavirus has had on the global economy, it is hard to see this being avoided.'  Tokyo is set to host the Olympic Games in July and August, which the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has insisted will go ahead. But Taro Saito says: 'If this epidemic is not contained by the time of the Tokyo Olympic Games, the damage to the economy will be huge.'  Shares on the Nikkei 225 Index fell by 0.7 per cent to 23,523.  
