cars
{ By Alana Mazzoni For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:29, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039485/Kids-young-12-stealing-cars-smoking-bongs-bashing-strangers-south-east-Queensland.html }
Teenage gangs are wreaking havoc in Australia attacking strangers, stealing cars and posting their crimes on social media. Brisbane's 'northside' versus 'southside' gang rivalry has seen two groups of youths compete for infamy on social media. Kids as young as 12 have filmed themselves reaching speeds of up to 214km/h on the city's streets. Other videos show teenagers engaging in street brawls in broad daylight, smoking bongs, posing with guns and drag-racing down busy highways.  In a video posted last week, two northside gang members filmed themselves being cornered by police. The passenger could be heard telling the driver to 'ram' the police car.   And some of the teens' parents are often found to be egging on their criminal behaviour. The mother of 14-year-old Jacob Hopkins, who died last May when an alleged stolen car he was in slammed into traffic lights, regularly posts photos of herself posing with northside gang members. Jacob's mother Kylie Stonebridge has also proudly boasted about being a 'northside Mumzy' on social media. Queensland MP Michael Hart has called for the government to bring back breach of parole offences for youths to crack down on teen criminal activity. 'They wear it as a badge of honour that they've been to court, they haven't been convicted , they're back on the streets and they go out and do something again,' he told A Current Affair. Youth Development Foundation founder Gerry Lister said teenagers are trying to outdo one another, and putting their lives at risk in the process.   'I don't know if they're on drugs or if they are affected by anything else, but to be 12, 13, 14, 15 to even consider driving like that. There's no thought. There's no thought process to their actions at all,' she said. 'We need to go into families' [homes] and mentor mum and dad about how to get your 12-year-old daughter to understand it's not okay to get in a stolen car.'   Teen gang culture is also prevalent in Melbourne, where at least eight youth gangs terrorise shopping centres.  They are also running wild in regional areas, including Cairns and Townsville. Five cars were stolen in the Gold Coast in a single night last week. Police caught a 12-year-old boy driving one of them with six of his friends packed inside.  On Australia Day, Kane Alexanderson, 18, was stabbed to death during a brawl at the iStay River City hotel on Brisbane's Albert St. Jack Beasley, 17, was fatally stabbed in the chest and back after a fight broke out between two groups in Surfers Paradise last December.  A 15-year-old boy was charged with his murder. 
