{ By Reuters   Published:  12:17, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-8012469/Equatorial-Guinea-argues-luxury-Paris-mansion-embassy-raided.html }
By Stephanie van den Berg THE HAGUE, Feb 17 (Reuters) - Equatorial Guinea argued on Monday that a luxury mansion in central Paris used by the son of the country's president was protected by diplomatic immunity when it was raided by French authorities in 2012. The case at the International Court of Justice is seen as a test for the limits of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Immunity, which shields government officials from prosecution abroad. Equatorial Guinea launched the case in 2016 after the residence of Teodorin Obiang on the grand Avenue Foch was raided as part of a corruption investigation that resulted in a conviction for embezzlement, confirmed last week. The conviction came after a collection of 25 supercars he owned, including a Ferrari Enzo and a Bugatti Veyron, were confiscated by the Geneva prosecutor's office under a deal ending a money-laundering inquiry. The cars fetched nearly 27 million Swiss francs ($27 million) at auction in September. Obiang, 50, is the son of President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, who has ruled Equatorial Guinea, a former Spanish colony, for more than three decades. A representative for Equatorial Guinea told the court's judges on Monday that the luxury apartment, in one of the most expensive neighbourhoods in the world, had been bought by the African nation in 2011 and was part of its embassy. "France has refused to recognise the diplomatic pretext of the building under the false pretence it belongs to the private domain", ambassador Carmelo Nvono Nca, Equatorial Guinea's agent, told the judges. In coming days France will present its side before the United Nation's highest court for disputes between states. A ruling is expected later this year. In earlier hearings the French argued Equatorial Guinea was attempting to shield Obiang, known for posting pictures of his glamorous lifestyle on Instagram, by retroactively adding his opulent 101-room home to its diplomatic mission. Police raided Obiang´s residence as part of a corruption investigation, eventually seizing 100 million euros worth of assets including paintings by Renoir and Degas and another fleet of luxury vehicles. Obiang was convicted last week by a French court of embezzlement of public funds and ordered to pay a 30 million euro ($33 million) fine. (Reporting by Stephanie van den Berg Editing by Anthony Deutsch and David Holmes) 
