{ By Mark Duell and Terri-ann Williams For Mailonline and Vanessa Allen and Alison Boshoff  and Sophie Borland and Jim Norton for the Daily Mail   Published:  13:18, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8012527/Caroline-Flacks-friend-shares-snap-Love-Island-host-child.html }
Caroline Flack's best friend who was with her just hours before killed herself has broken her silence to share a heartbreaking photograph of the late Love Island host holding her eight-year-old daughter as a baby. Celebrity hair stylist Lou Teasdale posted the picture of Miss Flack and her daughter Lux from 2011 on Instagram last night, saying: 'This little lady misses you 'Calorine'.' Miss Flack had pleaded not guilty to assaulting her boyfriend Lewis Burton at her former £1.1million home in Islington, North London, in a court hearing in December.  The 40-year-old troubled TV star, who was said by her management to be 'vulnerable', was found dead on Saturday at her rented flat in Stoke Newington, East London, where Miss Teasdale had been staying with her.  Miss Teasdale, who is known for being One Direction's stylist, wrote on Instagram: 'Anyone have any nice advice for me with an eight-year-old learning about grief? 'She's lost two very special people who lived with us in the space of 12 months and I wanna make sure I'm saying the right thing - if there's such a thing.'  It comes as:   Lux, who is the daughter of Miss Teasdale and her former fiancé Tom Atkin, has her own Instagram page billing the girl as 'the youngest fan of One Direction'.  Love Island staff have been told the future of the show is safe, although crew described the mood on set in Cape Town as 'on the floor' and 'incredibly low'. Contestants on the current series still have not been told of Miss Flack's death, and it is not yet clear whether they will be informed at a later date. It has also been claimed by sources close to Miss Flack's legal team that the Crown Prosecution Service initially decided not to charge her with assault, but senior police officers pressed for a charging decision, according to The Sun.  The CPS declined to comment on the claims today, while a Metropolitan Police spokesman said: 'The MPS, in line with policing nationally, follows the College of Policing's APP (authorised professional practice) relating to domestic abuse cases. The APP was followed in this matter. We are not discussing further.' It comes as the row continued over Flack being charged by the CPS, after her management team said she was 'vulnerable' and condemned the decision to go ahead with the case next month. Today Nazir Afzal, a former chief prosecutor, spoke out amid criticism of the Crown Prosecution Service for continuing with the case. Speaking about the case, Mr Afzal told BBC Breakfast: 'They just follow the evidence. In this case yes the complainant withdrew his support for the prosecution but undoubtedly they felt they had enough, they had I think a 999 call recording, they had body cameras worn by the police, they would have had medical evidence, they would have had other evidence. 'They have to take domestic abuse seriously because we as a country have decided we need to take domestic abuse seriously.' Miss Teasdale had been staying with Miss Flack on Valentine's Day after the star was left terrified when she learnt prosecutors were not going to drop her assault case.  Caroline Flack was said to have been tormented over the idea of a jury being shown police 'bodycam' footage taken during the night she was accused of attacking her boyfriend. The distraught TV presenter was understood to be horrified by the prospect of a 'show trial' over an alleged assault on Lewis Burton and was worried she could not cope with the fallout. Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in North London had heard in December that police found the pair at her flat in Islington covered in blood and that Miss Flack had cuts to her wrist. Miss Flack had hoped the trial would not go ahead. Friends said she was left feeling isolated and scared and was prescribed anti-depressants. One said: 'Her biggest fear was that the bodycam footage would be made public. She realised that it was going to be shown in court if it came to court. 'She felt that from that moment her life would be ruined forever. I hear that the footage is quite distressing.' The 36-year-old stylist had popped out to the shops and Miss Flack took her own life within minutes of her friend leaving the flat in Stoke Newington, East London. Miss Teasdale had volunteered to be at her side after family and friends grew increasingly concerned about the welfare of the former Love Island presenter.  A source last night said Miss Teasdale had been 'brilliant' with her and that Miss Flack had convinced her friend to go home. The presenter is said to have persuaded her friend that she was fine after London Ambulance Service paramedics visited the property on Friday night. A source told the Sun: 'Caroline had been unwell on Friday but by the time crews got there she was feeling much better and was coherent and responsive to them. She refused to go to hospital.' After returning from the shops Miss Teasdale could not get back into the flat, but called Miss Flack's father Ian who gained entry to the flat and found her body. A source close to the family told the Sun of Miss Teasdale: 'She was absolutely brilliant with her. On Saturday morning Caroline insisted she was fine and persuaded her friend to go home. 'No one is blaming Lou for a second. She couldn't have done any more. She is understandably distraught. It is so awful for her.' Miss Teasdale shared an emotional Instagram post in memory of her 'beautiful friend', sharing a photograph taken last week of them together in the flat. Sharing a series of photographs of the pair together, Miss Teasdale wrote: 'Here's us like five days ago really happy lolling telling each other we're really fit and funny and five years ago, and ten years ago. The Crown Prosecution Service is under obligation to investigate all domestic violence incidents if they believe they are in the public interest. For years there has been growing concern that too few domestic violence cases end in prosecution. Many involve women who have been attacked by their husbands who later withdraw their original accusations under duress or because they are simply living in fear. To try and address this, the CPS introduced reforms in 2014 aimed at greatly increasing prosecution rates. They issued guidance to police urging them to gather multiple sources of evidence rather than just relying on the victim's statement - which may be unreliable or change. One of the most important sources of evidence in domestic abuse cases is likely to be the original 999 call made by the victim shortly after the attack. Other evidence could include witness statements from neighbours, medical examinations or images from the scene captured on police bodycams or CCTV.  Miss Flack was understood to be horrified by the prospect of a 'show trial' over the alleged assault on her boyfriend Lewis Burton and was worried she could not cope with the fallout.  'I love you. I hope you are at peace now. Til the end my beautiful friend, Caroline x.' Another of Miss Flack's friends shared what is believed to be the last photograph of the troubled TV star, pictured on Valentine's Day just hours before she killed herself. Mollie Grosberg, a TV producer, posted the picture in an Instagram story, saying: 'Our funny valentine bought us cookies and oat milk this year.'  Ms Grosberg added that she is looking after Miss Flack's dog Ruby, and it comes as reports emerged that Miss Flack had warned police she would take her own life. The 40-year-old presenter was taking anti-depressants as she battled mental health problems and was terrified of the prospect of her upcoming trial.  It was claimed yesterday paramedics had been sent to her home the day before she was found dead, following fears for her welfare, but she was not taken to hospital.  The distraught TV presenter was understood to be horrified by the prospect of a 'show trial' over an alleged assault on her boyfriend and was worried she could not cope with the fallout. Friends said she was tormented over the idea of a jury being shown police 'bodycam' footage taken during the night she was accused of attacking Lewis Burton, 27.  She had hoped the trial would not go ahead. A court had heard police found the pair covered in blood and that Miss Flack had cuts to her wrist.  The revelations about her mental health prompted questions about whether she was given enough help to tackle her depression and panic attacks. Police last night refused to reveal if they had referred the star to mental health services.  As stars paid tribute to the Love Island presenter, friends asked if prosecutors, medical professionals and her former bosses at ITV had missed chances to save her. ITV cancelled scheduled Love Island episodes over the weekend but said the show would return tonight with a tribute to Miss Flack, who presented five series before stepping back following her arrest. But TV critic Scott Bryan told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme that it was 'just a bit too soon' for the programme to return.  He said: 'Of course there are viewers who would say, well, Love Island isn't really connected to this. As you have rightly pointed out, the reasons why somebody takes their own life is due to a myriad of different factors. 'Then some say that it should be as a tribute for Caroline, but also I think many people would say it just feels too soon. I think I'm in that camp - I feel personally it is just a bit too soon. 'I think it's just the fact that Love Island is such a bubbly show, such a warm show, such an uplifting show – and it just doesn't feel like the cultural mood where we are as a country at the moment, I think. 'I think it's also just incredibly hard for the crew - Laura Whitmore speaking so passionately, I highly recommend people go and watch it - to continue, essentially, continuing the rest of the series when it's incredibly difficult on their mental health.  'But I also want to point out that this has been really devastating news during the weekend, particularly when it's a familiar face.' In other developments: Miss Flack died at her home in Stoke Newington on Saturday.  Her death is understood to have come just hours after she learned prosecutors had ruled she would face trial over Mr Burton's alleged assault. Her management team said the Crown Prosecution Service knew she was 'vulnerable' and condemned the decision to go ahead with the case next month.  Mr Burton, who made the original 999 call to report the assault, later said he did not want her to face charges. Miss Flack was pronounced dead at the scene after being found 'unresponsive' inside her flat.  It later emerged that paramedics had been called to her road on Friday night.  London Ambulance Service said: 'Crews attended and, following a clinical assessment, the person was not taken to hospital.' The star had spoken publicly about her battle with depression and panic attacks, which began after she won Strictly in 2014.  Friends said she had become 'fixated' by the prospect that police video footage of her arrest would be made public. A court hearing was told Mr Burton dialled 999 at 5.25am on December 12 and said he was being assaulted by Miss Flack.  He told police she had read text messages on his phone and thought he was cheating on her, and had attacked him while he was asleep. At a hearing at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court last year, prosecutors said police found the couple covered in blood and said Miss Flack had two cuts to her left wrist after smashing a glass. Officers were forced to restrain her, they said, and when she was cautioned, she told police she would kill herself, the court heard. Her lawyer Paul Morris said Mr Burton disputed the CPS's account and did not want her to be prosecuted. The pair remained in a relationship and begged to be allowed to see each other, but the court imposed bail conditions which banned Miss Flack from contacting Mr Burton, meaning they were forced to spend Christmas, New Year and Valentine's Day apart. Friends said Miss Flack was left feeling isolated and scared and was prescribed anti-depressants again. One said: 'Her biggest fear was that the bodycam footage would be made public. She realised that it was going to be shown in court if it came to court. 'She felt that from that moment her life would be ruined forever. I hear that the footage is quite distressing.' Miss Flack's agent Francis Ridley, of Money Talent Management, said: 'The CPS pursued this when they knew not only how very vulnerable Caroline was but also that the alleged victim did not support the prosecution.  'The CPS should look at themselves today and how they pursued a show trial that was not only without merit but not in the public interest. And ultimately resulted in significant distress to Caroline.' Lawyer Nazir Afzal, a former CPS chief prosecutor, said prosecutors could halt proceedings if the risk to the defendant's health outweighed the public interest in them standing trial.  'But he said they were under pressure to pursue convictions for domestic violence amid concerns that too many prosecutions were dropped. An ITV insider insisted it had maintained contact with Miss Flack, and had offered her support. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 116123, visit a local branch or go to www.samaritans.org  Caroline Flack flew to Barcelona with a friend a week before her tragic death, it has been revealed.  Flack took her own life aged 40 at her London home on Saturday after she was told she would face trial for the alleged assault of her boyfriend Lewis Burton - a charge she denied and Mr Burton did not want to pursue.   Her friend Sam Campbell had taken Flack along with her on a work trip, but found the Love Island presenter was 'calm and hopeful, but so weak', even while away in sunny Barcelona.  Flack was pictured on a trip to a museum, sitting in the back of a tuk-tuk, and smiling while holding up a cuddly souvenir with the words 'not guilty' emblazoned across it. Writing a tribute to her friend on Instagram, Ms Campbell said: 'I've lost count of all our holidays and trips.  'Last week she tagged along on a work trip to Barcelona with me. Waiting in the hotel while I did meetings.  'We went on a tuk tuk, walked, saw the sights, went to a house of curiosities and got our caricature done. 'We'd go for dinner then watch Ab Fab till we fell asleep. She was calm and hopeful, but so weak.  'I'm so so glad she came and we got to have one more adventure together and a few last laughs. I miss you so much already xxxxx.'   Love Island staff have been told the future of the under fire show is safe following former presenter Caroline Flack's tragic death. Crew on the ITV2 reality series described the mood on set in Cape Town, South Africa, as 'on the floor' and 'incredibly low' as they got back to work ahead of tonight's episode.    Production have been told the show will not be axed amid claims its future was 'hanging in the balance.' The summer series is set to go ahead as planned while ITV2 bosses look to recruit winter host Laura Whitmore, 34, on a permanent basis.  Contestants on the current series still haven't been told of Caroline's death. It is not yet clear whether they will be informed at a later date. An insider told MailOnline: 'Love Island bosses will not be telling stars of the current series.'    According to those working on set, Caroline's tribute will be a montage and aired at the top of the show, and her former co-star Iain Stirling, 32, has narrated tonight's episode as normal.  A source told MailOnline: 'The mood on set is on the floor, it's horrible.  'Staff are feeling homesick for the first time ever after Caroline's death – all they want now is to be back at home with their loved ones.  'Seniors are constantly checking everyone's OK but obviously it's all workers can think about.   'Although final decisions for the show are yet to be made, staff have been reassured the summer series will go ahead as planned and their jobs are safe.  'Tonight's episode of Love Island will begin with a montage of Caroline, that producers are hoping will be a fitting tribute to the star.'   ITV cancelled Love Island Unseen Bits which usually airs on Saturday night and axed Sunday's episode after Caroline, 40, who fronted the dating series for five years, died on Saturday at her home in east London.   The show will return on Monday evening as planned but Monday's Aftersun has been cancelled in the wake of the tragic news.  Bosses decided to axe the recording 'out of respect for Caroline's friends and family,' after she also presented the spin-off show.  Love Island host Laura paid tribute to her close friend Caroline on Sunday, and described the show as 'loving and caring and safe and protected'.  In a heartfelt speech on her BBC 5 Live show, Laura said: 'Caroline loved to love, that's all she wanted.  'Which is why a show like Love Island was important to her because the show is about finding love, friendship and having a laugh.  'The problem wasn't the show. The show to work on is loving and caring and safe and protected. The problem is the outside world is not.'    It has been claimed that Caroline took her own life just minutes after her close friend Lou Teasdale, 36, left her flat, where she had been staying with the star over Valentine's Day.  The distraught TV presenter was understood to be horrified by the prospect of a 'show trial' over an alleged assault on her boyfriend and was worried she could not cope with the fallout.   Gazing flirtily into the camera wearing a black bra and vampish red lipstick, in her last Instagram post Caroline Flack was the image of joyful self-confidence. At 40, she had never looked more beautiful. Yet two days after posting these pictures to her 2.6million followers, in what friends believe was a final Valentine's message to boyfriend Lewis Burton, the presenter took her own life. They say the prospect of standing trial over an alleged assault on the 27-year-old – who she considered to be her soulmate – after a jealous row is what drove her to this desperate act. 'I think that the fact that she did this so soon after being told that the prosecution was going to go ahead is significant,' said a friend.  'The fact that it had been Valentine's Day and she had been apart from her boyfriend also was a factor I believe.' For behind the deceptive gloss of social media, there was a different story than the happy one Caroline had struggled to maintain. Hers was a tale of crippling low self-esteem, depression and anxiety that dated back years. Raised in the Norfolk village of Great Hockham, by her father Ian, a pastry chef, and mum Christine, who worked for a local paper, from her earliest days it appears that Caroline felt somewhat insecure. She constantly compared herself to her non-identical sister Jody, who self-conscious Caroline believed was the prettier, cleverer and more sensible of the two. Her worries were compounded by her eczema, which made her 'paranoid' about her skin, and she hated her 'skinny' legs, going to school in up to five pairs of tights to try to make them look more substantial.  Despite her insecurities, Caroline had her sights set on a more dazzling milieu than she felt Norfolk could offer. Her great heroine was pop star Kylie Minogue – a pocket Venus like Caroline, who was 5ft 3in tall – and she set out to achieve fame on as big a scale as possible. Yet when she first began to pursue her showbiz passions, it seemed Jody was ahead of her there, too. 'When it came to dancing and acting at school my sister was the talented one,' she said. 'To get even close to her I had to work incredibly hard.' She went on: 'I've always felt the need to overcompensate but I know my limits. My first ambition was musical theatre but I realised quite early on that I wouldn't make the grade.' It was a crushing realisation. Yet at just 16, Caroline left home to attend the Bodyworks theatre school in Cambridge. Somewhat precociously, she never really went home again. However she has always remained close to her family, which include older siblings Paul and Elizabeth, and was stunned when her parents announced they were divorcing recently. She and Jody – now a mum of three – were particularly close. Caroline observed: 'We have completely different lives, but we each enjoy the other's life vicariously.  I'm very lucky to have a twin. We're very close – we shared a bed until we were four and we were in the same class at school – but we're quite different'. After graduating from theatre school, there were a series of small fry jobs – working in a pork processing factory, waitressing and being a magician's assistant.  She got her first break in 2002 as an actress on comedy sketch show Bo' Selecta! She then went on to present CBBC's Saturday morning show TMi, gaining fans who would later grow up to watch her on Love Island.  A stint on Gladiators followed, before she was picked to front the ITV2 spin-off show I'm A Celebrity… Get Me Out Of Here Now! in 2009. 'Television is where I'm most at home,' she said. 'I'm not one of those TV presenters who secretly yearns to be a Hollywood actress. Live telly is what I thrive on.' By this time, she was starting to get noticed on London's busy celebrity scene, hanging out with stars like the late Amy Winehouse and comedian Noel Fielding. A friend said: 'We would do long long filming days from 9am to 11pm and then she would get a text and say, 'Right, let's go out for a drink'. She had so much energy. She was a great drinker but it wasn't a problem.' As her star rose she became increasingly famous for reported romances with fellow celebrities, including Prince Harry, James Corden and music manager Jack Streets. In 2011 she began dating One Direction's Harry Styles, then 17 to her 32. Naturally, the band's fans were appalled. Caroline, then hosting X Factor spin-off show The Xtra Factor, said: 'I already knew he had a crush on me. It was flattering and I found it amusing. 'After Harry was pictured coming out of my house people started shouting 'paedophile' at me.  There was a moment when we thought, 's***, this has gone really dark'.' The backlash – particularly on Twitter – was vicious enough for her to seek therapy after the three-month fling ran its course. She later said: 'It comes with the job. I can't moan about it because I have a really amazing life and I'm very lucky.' But the threats and abuse troubled her. One associate described her as 'a woman of extremes, laughing one moment and crying the next'. After the fling ended she went through a course of neuro-linguistic programming in 2013 to help her rebuild her self-esteem. The following year she won Strictly Come Dancing. But at this moment of supreme professional triumph, she sank into depression. 'It all started the day after I won Strictly. I woke up and felt like somebody had covered my body in clingfilm,' she said. 'I couldn't get up and just couldn't pick myself up at all that next year. I felt ridiculous, being so sad when I'd just won the biggest show on telly and had such an amazing job. 'However, I felt like I was being held together by a piece of string which could snap at any time. Anti-depressants helped me get up in the morning, and stopped me from being sad, but what they also do is stop you from being happy.' Soon after, she was promoted to co-host The X Factor with singer Olly Murs. Yet the critics were unkind, and after suffering panic attacks in her dressing room she ended up on medication for depression again. She said: 'I felt like a bit of a joke.' She was devastated by Graham Norton's joke at the 2016 Baftas when she said her future return as The X Factor's host was less likely than the executed Anne Boleyn returning to BBC2 historical drama Wolf Hall.  'I remember the person next to me touching my arm in sympathy and just trying not to cry. It was really horrible and my lowest point,' she said. But in 2015 came her biggest break – being made the presenter of Love island, with a salary of £600,000 a year and lucrative spin-off deals. Yet for a woman struggling with self-esteem issues, being surrounded by an endless rotation of bikini-clad women can not have been easy. When Love Island bosses reportedly requested that she, too, wear a bikini on the show, she refused.  However after the tragic suicides of former contestants Sophie Gradon and Mike Thalassitis, she praised the show for taking care of participants' mental health, saying she had discussed her own worries with them. Though her professional life flourished as she helped the Love Island contestants look for love, Caroline's own romantic life was fraught. In recent years she had a rocky on-off relationship with former Apprentice star, Andrew Brady, 28, to whom she got engaged after a few weeks of dating.  In November 2018 he called police after believing that she was on the brink of taking her own life. After a brief fling with rugby hunk Danny Cipriani, she met tennis pro and model Lewis Burton, 27, in July last year. And so began the romance that would lead to the devastating series of events. On the night of December 12, she and Burton had gone out for a dinner at the Soho nightspot Bob Bob Ricard.  Whatever happened next involved jealousy and a loss of control although a friend of hers told me yesterday through tears: 'She did nothing wrong which is why I cannot understand what has happened now.' Friends of Flack have always maintained that it was a 'minor argument'. But blood was spilled during the drama, and her career was damaged. After being charged on the basis of evidence from the police, she was forced to step down from Love Island. Having reportedly learned on Friday that she would have to stand trial next month, on Saturday, after a friend who was staying with her 'popped out' to the shops, she took her own life.  Though friends confirm that Caroline had been taking medication for depression at the time of her death, they profess themselves stunned that she could reach such a low ebb. For the signs were that she was recovering. She had given up drinking and had said she was feeling positive after a break in Los Angeles. Indeed, she had promised friends she was looking forward to giving her side of the events of that night and clearing her name next month. And she was happy at least that Lewis – who she adored – was sticking by her. Friends insist she believed they were on course to get married this year, once the court case was over. She had moved to a new house in East London, and started writing a self-help book, part memoir, part advice on getting through problems. Yet behind the happy facade, fears over appearing in court continued to bubble away.  One friend told me: 'She could not get her head around the court case.' Through tears, he added: 'We always used to say 'it's fixable'. Whatever went wrong we would say: 'Oh never mind, it's fixable.' Tragically, it seems that no matter how brave a face Caroline showed, after years of mental torment, this vivacious young woman no longer believed she was fixable.  This is the interior of Love Island presenter Caroline Flack's £3,000-a-month apartment where she killed herself. The troubled TV star was found dead on Saturday in the two-bedroom top floor loft space in Stoke Newington, East London, which she had been renting in recent weeks after trying to sell her former home in Islington. She moved into the 1,400 sq ft flat in a former Victorian schoolhouse after putting her former property up for sale last September, three months before she was arrested on suspicion of attacking her boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27. But Miss Flack, 40, then took the £1.1million Islington property off the market last month so she could rent it out as a source of income, having lost her £1.2million salary as the host of Love Island after stepping down.  The Stoke Newington home became available last November for £695 a week or £3,020 per calendar month, and was described by estate agents as an 'amazing top floor loft' offering 'character living space in a superb location.' A listing on London Lofts said it is 'dominated by a huge, triple-height living room, with exposed bricks, parquet flooring and huge period windows', and has a 'modern kitchen and access to a fantastic private roof terrace'. The part-furnished apartment, where Miss Flack's friend Lou Teasdale had been staying with her, was also described by the agents as coming with 'excellent security and an allocated off-street parking space'. Miss Teasdale posted a photograph on Instagram on Sunday of her with Miss Flack in the flat, saying: 'Here's us like five days ago really happy, lolling, telling each other we're really fit and funny... I love you.' Miss Flack was told at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in North London two months ago that she could not have any contact with Mr Burton before her upcoming trial for allegedly attacking him. She told police she would kill herself after she allegedly assaulted her boyfriend in December. Miss Flack, who was described as 'vulnerable' by her management, had denied assaulting Mr Burton at her former flat in Islington. Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court heard that, in the aftermath of the alleged incident, Miss Flack told police 'I did it' and then warned she would kill herself. She was arrested and charged with assault by beating. Miss Flack stepped down from presenting the current winter series of Love Island after the alleged assault. The ITV programme did not air on Sunday night, but will be back on tonight with a tribute showreel to Flack.  The shock news prompted a flood of tributes from celebrities. But it also brought questions about the decision to persist with prosecuting Miss Flack for the alleged assault on her boyfriend. Miss Flack's management company criticised the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) for pressing ahead with what it called her 'show trial' even after her boyfriend said he did not support it.  She is the fourth person linked to the ITV2 dating programme to have killed themselves. Sophie Gradon, who was a contestant in 2016, was found dead at her home in 2018 at the age of 32.  Her boyfriend Aaron Armstrong, who had found her body, killed himself three weeks later aged 25. Mike Thalassitis, who appeared in the 2017 series, was 26 when he was found dead in a park in March last year.  A legal expert has defended the Crown Prosecution Service following the death of Caroline Flack by explaining why they pursue criminal cases even when alleged victims don't want them to.   The CPS has faced scrutiny for decision to pursue a court case against former Love Island presenter Flack, whose death on Saturday came hours after she found out she would face trial over the alleged assault of her boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27. Mr Burton did not want to press charges, and following Ms Flack's death a member of her management team hit out at the CPS saying they should 'look at themselves and how they pursued a show trial that was not only without merit but not in the public interest'.  Legal commentator Joshua Rozenberg appeared on Good Morning Britain with Richard Madeley and Ranvir Singh today to discuss how the CPS decide to pursue cases against alleged criminals - and why they might do so even against the 'victim's' wishes.  Ms Singh said that in cases of alleged domestic violence, historically, victims may have refused to support prosecutions for many reasons, and Mr Rozenberg said: 'That's absolutely right. Take the classic example of a man accused of assaulting a woman - maybe a sexual assault.  'They live together and the woman has second thoughts and she says I want to withdraw the charges... or is coerced as you might well imagine could happen in other circumstances.  'Should the CPS say 'oh well don't need to worry about it any more because she has been persuaded to drop the charges?' It's not up to her. It's up to the state to decide.'   Mr Rozenberg said that the Crown Prosecution Service will ask themselves whether there was enough evidence for a reasonable chance of conviction and if a prosecution was in the public interest.      'It's never going to be in the public interest for somebody to be hounded to their death,' he said. 'I'm sure that the CPS is sympathetic as we all are this morning about this tragedy, but if you could simply say to the CPS I am vulnerable, I am likely to take my own life, well, a lot of people would say that and it wouldn't be true. 'It's very difficult for the CPS to judge, we don't know what evidence Caroline Flack's lawyers gave to the CPS about her state of mind.' He added that the CPS will consider the welfare of a person who has been accused of a crime, using the example of someone who is terminally ill.  Mr Rozenberg added that prosecutions can be dropped if they're not in the public interest.   Richard Madeley asked Mr Rozenberg if he knew of a prosecution being dropped because somebody said they might take their own life, and he responded: 'Simply saying that would not lead to the dropping of a prosecution because it would be too easy.   'Producing medical evidence that you'd tried suicide on several occasions in the past, that you were mentally ill, that you'd been taken to hospital, or whatever it may be, is certainly something that may lead to a postponement of a prosecution and perhaps even in extreme circumstances, it being dropped.' It comes after a former chief prosecutor defended the CPS over pursuing charges against Flack and hit out at social media trolls. Nazir Afzal, a former CPS prosecutor for the North West, explained why the CPS decides to prosecute cases, even when the victim's complaint has been withdrawn. Mr Afzal said there were 750,000 reports of domestic violence last year to police, but only 75,000 were prosecuted, and 75 per cent of those convicted.   And more than 120 domestic homicides were prosecuted without any victim evidence, he said.  Mr Afzal added: 'It's to avoid the latter that prosecutors pursue the former. But only when there are allegations of serious violence and there is other strong evidence available such as 999 call recordings, police body worn camera, statements and interview. 'Sometimes you need to protect someone even when they can't see it themselves. 'However you must judge each case on its merits. Prosecutors make decisions without fear of favour - I can assure you the celebrity status or otherwise is irrelevant. 'Most offenders prosecuted aren't even famous in their own homes'. In the string of tweets, Mr Afzal also took aim at online trolls and the 'cult of celebrity'.  He said: 'The dehumanising of our social media victims means we say anything we like about them without consequences for us, even when consequences for our target can be terrible. 'Don't forget there are degrees of harm, short of pushing someone to believe their life isn't worth living.'  Flack's management criticised the CPS in a statement.  Francis Ridley, of Money Talent Management, said: 'We are devastated at the loss of our client and friend Caroline Flack. 'The Crown Prosecution Service pursued this when they knew not only how very vulnerable Caroline was but also that the alleged victim did not support the prosecution and had disputed the CPS version of events. 'The CPS should look at themselves today and how they pursued a show trial that was not only without merit but not in the public interest.  'And ultimately resulted in significant distress to Caroline. Our thoughts are with Caroline's family at this time. 'An immensely talented young woman who was at the top of her game professionally and loved by television viewers across the country. In recent months Caroline had been under huge pressure because of an ongoing case and potential trial which has been well reported.' The CPS told MailOnline in a statement: 'Our deepest sympathies go to the family and friends of Caroline Flack.  'Given the tragic circumstances, we will not comment on the specifics of this case at this stage.'  Panellist due to appear in TV show hosted by Caroline Flack pays tribute to 'caring and down to earth' star A panellist who was about to appear in a TV show presented by Caroline Flack has paid tribute to the 'caring and down to earth' star. Les Langley, of Low Coniscliffe, County Durham, was due to appear in Channel 4's The Surjury after filming with the presenter over three months last year. The programme, which was set to launch in the next few months, was cancelled after Channel 4 bosses revealed that they had decided 'not to broadcast' the show following Miss Flack's death. Mr Langley had been part of the programme's on-screen jury, which decided if life-changing surgery brought by a contestant would be granted. He said: 'I was working on a new show with Caroline last year, there was three parts to filming a new show that was going to come out this year.' Describing what working with Miss Flack had been like during filming, Mr Langley described the presenter as 'one of us', despite her celebrity status. He said: 'She was fantastic, she would come in the morning, her timekeeping wasn't great to be honest, but she would ask each one of us how we were this morning. 'She really cared for those people (contestants) on the show, some of those people were coming on for life-changing surgery and were extremely nervous about coming out on stage. She would make them feel at ease.' Mr Langley said that the ex-Love Island presenter did not act like a celebrity and that despite having her own make-up artist, she appeared down to earth. He said: 'There was no star feel to it, she was just one of us. She had her make-up artist, but she was one of us.' But describing the moment a Whatsapp group made up of fellow panellists erupted with anguish, he said the announcement of her death was difficult to process. He said: 'I was driving and my phone kept on bleeping - I thought it must have been about when the show was going to air. 'When I got home, I looked at my phone and was in total shock. I turned on the news, hoping it wasn't true. It was really upsetting.' Mr Langley said members of the group had come together to show their support for each other, while Channel 4 had contacted them to offer emotional support. He added: 'Channel 4 emailed us within hours of it being announced, I just hope they would have given the same support to Caroline.' A Channel 4 spokesman said: 'We are shocked and saddened to hear the tragic news about Caroline Flack. 'Our deepest sympathies go out to Caroline's family and friends. Under the circumstances, we have decided not to broadcast The Surjury.' Ruth Langsford spoke out on her sister's suicide during an emotional segment on Monday's episode of This Morning. The ITV presenter broke down in tears as the show discussed Caroline Flack's death over the weekend. Telling viewers that 'this happened in my family,' Ruth tearfully explained what it was like for a family member left behind after suicide.  Ruth's sister Julia Johnson, 62, who had battled depression for years, was found dead by her husband Paul at their home in Lingfield, Surrey in June 2019. At the time, the ITV host, 59, told viewers her sister had died 'after a long illness', with an inquest later ruling she had died by suicide.  Devastated, Ruth was unable to go to work that week and two months later she left the This Morning studio in tears unable to continue with a phone-in on anxiety and depression.  Speaking to psychologist Emma Kenny on Monday's This Morning, Ruth spoke in public about her sister's suicide for the first time, explaining: 'This happened in my family. I remember my shock at that. It's the questions it leaves the families'. She continued with a list of a list of questions family members may have: 'I should have gone round. I should have phoned. I was going to go round. I was going to phone. Maybe I should have stayed longer,' she said. She added: 'You are left with the 'what ifs'. It's her family now that I think will need so much help.' Later Ruth broke down in tears during a discussion about Caroline with actress Nicola Thorp and Mathew Wright.    'You believe you don't have a choice, that's the sad thing and that's the sad thing for people left behind who say, 'So many people loved you, you did have a choice, you could have called me, you could have called mum…'' Ruth said before she was unable to continue.    Ruth's husband and co-presenter Eamonn Holmes stepped in, reminding audiences that the show's phone in would focus on depression and anxiety.   Sharing a photo alongside Julia last year, Ruth told her Instagram followers: 'My lovely Sis Julia has sadly died after a very long illness. My heart is completely broken.' 'She was the kindest and most gentle soul and I will miss her forever. As I am sure you will appreciate I need to take time to grieve with my family. 'Thank you for your understanding.'  Love Island presenter Caroline died on Saturday at her new flat in Stoke Newington, London, hours after she was told she would face trial over the alleged assault of boyfriend Lewis Burton last year - while the producer friend who was staying with her went to the shops.  ITV cancelled scheduled Love Island episodes over the weekend but said the show would return tonight with a tribute to Caroline, who presented five series before stepping back following her arrest.  Ruth's husband Eamonn Holmes paid tribute to Caroline on Saturday, while insisting there needs to be 'repercussions.' He wrote on Twitter: 'Caroline Flack .... Dear God. Shocked beyond belief. May she have found peace. #Rip Has to be repercussions for Love Island now surely?' which garnered more than 27K likes.  Eamonn later added: 'Meaning out of respect, can the series continue?' (sic)  Caroline is the third Love Island star to have died in the last two years after former contestants Mike Thalassitis and Sophie Gradon, took their own lives in March 2019 and June 2018.  It emerged on Sunday that paramedics were scrambled to Flack's north London home the day before she killed herself - but didn't take her to hospital after a clinical assessment. Sources told MailOnline that ambulance crews were sent to the former Love Island presenter's Stoke Newington flat over 'concerns for her welfare', but decided against taking her to hospital after checking her over. Caroline took her own life after a worried friend who was staying with her went to the shops, leaving her alone at her London flat. The producer friend couldn't get back into the flat when she returned. She called Flack's father Ian who gained entry to the flat where he found the star's body. Her management team have since described her as 'vulnerable' and criticised the CPS for pushing ahead with a pending court case despite her boyfriend Lewis Burton saying he did not want to press charges. He had said she hit him with a lamp at her former home in Islington in December and as part of her bail conditions the pair were banned from contacting each other. On Sunday Lewis shared a picture of the couple on holiday together on Instagram this morning, saying his 'heart is broken' and promising to 'be her voice'.   For confidential support call the Samaritans on 116123, visit a local branch or go to www.samaritans.org   
