cars
{ By Jack Elsom For Mailonline   Published:  10:38, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8012041/GM-shut-Australia-New-Zealand-Thailand-operations-1-1BILLION-overhaul.html }
General Motors will close its Australia, New Zealand and Thailand divisions as part of a $1.1billion restructuring sparked by flat lining profits. Some 2,100 employees face redundancy as part of the mammoth organisational shake-up announced by executives in Melbourne today. The Detroit-based automaker titan boasts brands including Chevrolet and Holden, but it is fighting to avoid being squeezed by rivals such as Tesla, whose attractive electric cars are offering stiff competition in showrooms.  After sales of GM Australia's flagship vehicle Holden tanked, the business could not justify manufacturing right-hand drive cars any longer.  Roughly 600 jobs will be lost in Australia and New Zealand, while about 1,500 jobs would be affected by the sale of a plant in Thailand.  Scott Morrison, Australian prime minister  'Australian taxpayers put billions into this multinational company. They let the brand just wither away on their watch.' Michael McCormack, Australian deputy prime minister 'A sad day for Australia with General Motors announcing it will retire the iconic Holden brand. A name regarded for safety, quality and style with a proud 160-year history.' Cam Reddin, journalist End of Holden terribly sad. Equally significant however, General Motors saying there's not much future in right-hand-drive markets. Will Australia soon be driving on the right side of the road?'    Holden 'The announcement that General Motors will be retiring the Holden brand in Australia and New Zealand will be felt deeply by the entire Holden family, our customers and our fans.' The winding down of these three branches accelerates GM's retreat from unprofitable markets and sees the multinational double down on hiking demand the United States China, Latin America and South Korea.        GM told analysts this month that restructuring its international operations outside of China to produce profit margins in the mid-single digits would represent 'a $2billion improvement' on two years ago.  Chair and CEO Mary Barra said yesterday GM is 'focusing on markets where we have the right strategies to drive robust returns, and prioritizing global investments that will drive growth in the future of mobility'. The latest changes - a continuation of GM's retreat from Asia that began in 2015 when it announced it would stop making GM-branded cars in Indonesia - will lead to cash and non-cash charges of $1.1 billion. Ms Barra has prioritized profit margins over sales volume and global presence since taking over in 2014. In 2017, she sold GM's European Opel and Vauxhall businesses to Peugeot SA and exited South Africa and other African markets.  Since then, Ms Barra has decided to pull GM out of Vietnam, Indonesia and India.    The move stoked anger in Australia, where GM Holden long ranked among the country's best selling car companies after the first locally made mass-production car rolled off the assembly line with a Holden badge in 1948. Amid continuous decline in new car sales, GM said it was ending Australian factory production in 2017 and last year called time on former best-seller the Commodore as part of a shift towards more compact SUVs and utility vehicles. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Monday he was disappointed and angry at the decision, although not surprised. He said: 'Australian taxpayers put billions into this multinational company. They let the brand just wither away on their watch.'  
