{ By Dan Heching For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:46, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8039553/A-Quiet-Place-II-releases-extended-trailer-Emily-Blunt.html }
The first film in 2018 was a breathtakingly original take on the post apocalyptic thriller that presented a simple premise: if you make any noise, you die. And on Monday, fans got another glimpse at the upcoming sequel A Quiet Place Part II, again starring Emily Blunt, along with newcomers to the series Cillian Murphy and Djimon Hounsou. Although this latest trailer — the third and most likely final one before the film's release next month — reveals nothing very new, it certainly succeeds in building tension and contributing to the anticipation of seeing just how Evelyn Abbott and what's left of her family are going to survive. As with the other teasers to the new film, which follows 2018's A Quiet Place and is again directed by John Krasinski, the trailer opens on a silent procession led my mom Evelyn (Blunt) and her children Regan (Millicent Simmonds) and Marcus (Noah Jupe).  Something's not right, and Evelyn breathlessly whispers one word as they arrive at an abandoned train yard: 'Run!'  As the menacing, sound-sensitive creatures from the first film race behind them, they soon find cover, but they're not alone.  There's a flame in the darkness, as a stranger says, 'I don't know why you came all the way up here, there's nothing left.' 'Please...' Emily's character pleads, as she lifts the lid of one of the suitcases she's carrying — to reveal a cooing baby, the same one she delivered in the harrowing events of the first film. The man removes the bandanna around his face to reveal the visage of Cillian. The camera cuts to the group as they weave through stalled cars on a perfectly still highway.  Blunt's voice is heard in voice over: 'There are people out there, people worth saving.' Evelyn's daughter Regan, who was nothing more than a little girl who discovered a special advantage over the monsters in the first movie, now stands holding a loaded gun, peering out of a train car that has been busted open from the inside by one of the creatures. As Cillian's voice is heard saying, 'You won't survive,' Emily is heard again, always in her ethereal whisper: 'We have to try.'  Flash cuts build to a crescendo: burning buildings, people running for cover as the baddies wreak havoc, Jupe's Marcus screaming silently... Until the camera settles on Blunt once more, gun cocked, as she takes aim a la Sigourney Weaver in Aliens. A Quiet Place Part II hits theaters on March 20.  
