{ By Jack Elsom For Mailonline   Published:  09:40, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8011907/Terrifying-moment-gunman-opens-fire-restaurant-owned-Real-Housewives-Atlanta-star.html }
This is the heart-stopping moment a gunman pursues a fleeing diner before opening fire outside the restaurant owned by Real Housewives of Atlanta star Kandi Burruss. Three people, including a teenage girl, were wounded in the Valentine's Day shooting at the popular East Point, Atlanta, eatery on Friday night. Couples enjoying the romantic evening at Old Lady Gang watched in horror as the shooter burst into the restaurant and squeezed the trigger. Dramatic dashcam footage then captured the moment he gives chase to his target before gunning him down, non-fatally, in the parking lot. The anonymous man whose car captured the video described the terrifying moment he saw the muzzle flash and the victim fly to the ground.  His footage, released to Fox 5, begins by showing a busy night outside the restaurant. A sleek black car, believed to be a Bentley, cruises up to the entrance and a man dressed in bright orange tracksuits steps out before calmly making his way to the entrance. In his hand he clasps a small black object, although it is not clear if it is a firearm. The video the cuts to a few minutes later when a man wearing black stampedes out of the restaurant with the gunman hot on his tail. He sprints between two parked cars and turns to reach for a woman, who is also fleeing the gunman. But as he turns, the shooter raises his right arm and points the pistol squarely at his target. The moment he opened fire is not shown and the clip jumps a few seconds to show the gunman bundling back into the Bentley which screeches from the scene. The victim is sprawled on the tarmac but quickly sits upright and appears to cradle his left leg. He speaks to the woman accompanying him and appears to be all right - it was later revealed the target and two bystanders caught in the crossfire all suffered non-fatal wounds. The names and ages of the people injured were not immediately released.  East Point police Capt. Allyn Glover said that the shooter was not in custody. Serving Southern cuisine, Old Lady Gang is owned by Burruss and her husband, Todd Tucker, and named after Burruss' mother and two aunts. The first restaurant opened in Atlanta in 2016, and the East Point location - situated in a large shopping complex about five miles west of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport - followed in 2018.  The reality star wrote on Instagram: 'My family and I are truly saddened by the unfortunate events that occurred at Old Lady Gang. 'As African-American business owners, it has been our goal to invest in our community by bringing jobs, quality dining, and a positive experience to the greater Atlanta area. 'We hope that you know and understand that the acts of violence that occurred yesterday evening do not, in any way, serve as a reflection of OLG or its values.' Burruss has been a cast member on the Real Housewives of Atlanta since its second season in 2009 and met Tucker, a former line producer, on the show.  She's appeared on other shows, including the 2019 iteration of Big Brother.  
