cars
{ By Chantalle Edmunds For Mailonline   Published:  09:26, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8011927/Ex-Blue-Peter-star-Valerie-Singleton-WINS-battle-block-plans-200-homes-Somerset-village.html }
Former Blue Peter presenter Valerie Singleton has won a battle to block plans to build new homes in her village after fears it would become a 'rat run'. The ex-host is part of a group of residents who are objecting to proposals put forward to put more properties in their area. Singleton, 82, joined other locals in condemning the move in Templecombe, Somerset. Members of a council committee threw out plans to build the new homes near the busy A357 on February 12. Templecombe sits between the A303 at Wincanton to the A30 leading to Yeovil and Salisbury, and the A357 runs through the heart of the village. Many large vehicles already use the road as a cut-through and reports of damage to houses or cars are common. Valerie, who lives near the proposed development, raised her concerns at a previous meeting. She said: 'The increase in car pollution, at a time when we are meant to be cutting back on this, and extra traffic is one of the things you hear most from people. 'We are used as a cut-through from the A303 to the A30 - and the lorries coming through are terrible. 'Of course new housing is important, and we all realise that - but it had to be done well and in a well thought-out way.' People who spoke at last week's meeting in Wincanton, Somerset had their own reasons for fighting the plans. One disputed the notion put forward by the council's planning officers that the village had sufficient amenities to accommodate additional housing. Another said they feared for the safety of their two young children if the development went ahead. South Somerset District Council's area east committee voted to refuse the plans on the grounds of breached planning policy, lack of appropriate infrastructure and road safety - but the fight isn't over yet. A separate body could reverse the decision as early as next month. The council's regulation committee - which makes the final decision on all major planning applications - will discuss the plans in Yeovil on March 17.  Valerie presented Blue Peter from 1962 to 1972.   
