{ By This Is Money   Published:  08:12, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8011795/FTSE-LIVE-Global-dividend-payouts-rise-fifth-consecutive-year-Holden-car-brand-axed.html }
European stock markets squeezed out small gains today, with investors encouraged by efforts in China to support the economy as it continues to battle the coronavirus.   Meanwhile the pound fell by about 0.2 per cent against both the dollar and the euro ahead of of a busy week for UK data - UK employment data is published tomorrow (Tuesday), inflation on Wednesday, retail sales on Thursday and flash PMIs on Friday.   The Japanese economy shrank at an annual pace of 6.3 per cent last quarter as growth was battered by typhoons and crimped consumer spending. The seasonally adjusted economic data comes amid looming fears about the economic damage expected from the new viral illness Covid-19. In company news, the founder of under-fire hospital builder NMC Health, BR Shetty, has been forced down from the board after a scandal erupted over how much of the company he actually owns. Shares in NMC fell in morning trading, but managed to close 3 per cent higher.  Elsewhere, the Holden car brand will be no more, with General Motors opting to dump the name synonymous with Australian motoring by next year. GM will not just axe the Holden name but also stop selling cars in Australia.   Footwear retailer Shoe Zone has warned it may have to shut down a fifth of its stores, equating to around 100, if the Government does not reform business rates. Shoe Zone has shut down about 300 stores in the last ten years, falling from 800 at its peak to around 500 at present.  Speaking to the BBC's Wake Up to Money programme, Shoe Zone boss Anthony Smith said: 'It's a simple maths question. Every time a lease comes up, we'll look at the mathematics of it. If we are not making any money out of it... the shop will unfortunately close.'  Full story below... Japan's economy contracted by 6.3 per cent in the last quarter of 2019 after it was hit by a sharp fall in consumer spending and Typhoon Hagibis. Despite a highly successful Rugby World Cup, both on and off the field, the world's third largest economy experienced its largest annualised fall in GDP since 2014 and is now on course to enter recession.  A sales tax hike introduced by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government has been blamed by many economists for causing consumer spending to fall by 2.9 per cent in the three months from October to December. General Motors has revealed what Holden owners can expect after the vehicle manufacturer announced the end of the iconic brand in Australia. After closing the company's local manufacturing operations in 2017, GM will 'retire' Holden in both Australia and New Zealand, axing about 600 jobs.   Holden's parent company told the ABC drivers will still have access to warranty, spare parts, servicing and recalls 'for at least the next 10 years'. Driving is undergoing its nuggets revolution since the creation of the internal combustion engine and cars are poised to undergo rapid change in the coming decades. Autocar has revealed how it envisions how the future of driving will look like in the year 2050.  It includes an all-electric cabin fitted with 360° panoramic glass windows and body panels that will change colours. General Motors will close its Australia, New Zealand and Thailand divisions as part of a $1.1billion restructuring sparked by flat lining profits. Some 2,100 employees face redundancy as part of the mammoth organisational shake-up announced by executives in Melbourne today. The Detroit-based automaker titan boasts brands including Chevrolet and Holden, but it is fighting to avoid being squeezed by rivals such as Tesla, whose attractive electric cars are offering stiff competition in showrooms.  Caledonia Mining has been on the rise recently but there is a good case for arguing this is only the start for the gold group's share price. To begin with, the company is an established producer and dividend payer that has been operating successfully at its Blanket mine in southern Zimbabwe for several years. But Caledonia has been preparing for the future as well. 'Our long-standing expansion is nearly finished,' says Mark Learmonth, the company's finance director. National Savings & Investments has today wielded the axe on Britain's best-loved savings product, halving the winners of £50 and £100 prizes from May. In February 27,221 savers won £100 in the Premium Bonds draw, while another 27,221 won £50. However, NS&I estimated that in May there will be just 13,448 of the £50 prizes and the same number of £100 prizes, a drop of just over 50 per cent. All other prize levels will also face cuts, with only the two £1million jackpots immune to the cuts that take the effective average interest rate down from 1.4 per cent to 1.3 per cent. Customers of TSB's Classic Plus current account will see the amount of interest they earn cut in May, from 3 per cent to 1.5 per cent. It is the second cut to the account in 10 months, after the bank reduced the interest rate from 5 per cent to 3 per cent last July. It means the account, which pays interest on balances of up to £1,500, will from 2 May pay less than a third of what it did 12 months ago. A stunning Grade I-listed castle that was once owned by a swashbuckling sailor who killed the real-life Captain Jack Sparrow from Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean has gone on the market for £1.9million. Coupland Castle dates back to the 12th century, having been built on land belonging to Sir John de Coupland, the squire who captured King David II of Scotland at the Battle of Neville's Cross in 1346. Situated just four miles northwest of Wooler, Northumberland, a separate farmhouse was added to the southwest of the now L-shaped tower, before the Wallis family sold the castle in 1713 to Sir Chaloner Ogle. Laura Ashley shares have fallen as much as 40 per cent after the troubled high street retailer confirmed it needs a loan to cope with 'challenging' trading conditions.  The homeware and fashion chain said that its Malaysian owner, MUI Asia Limited, is in talks with US lender Wells Fargo to unlock more money to meet 'immediate funding requirements'. If it does not manage to access the required amount of money, it 'will need to consider all appropriate options'.  The Brexit trade battle kicked off for real today as Britain demanded to be treated as an 'equal' - and France warned that the two sides are set to 'rip each other apart'. The UK is laying down the gauntlet in what is set to be a tough speech by envoy David Frost in Brussels this evening. He is expected to hammer home the message that Boris Johnson would rather accept a looser trade pact than compromise control - stressing that the relationship must be between 'sovereign equals'. DIY investing platform Interactive Investor is to buy rival the Share Centre for £62million in another round of consolidation in the investment industry. Under the deal, Share Centre investors will receive 41p in a combination of cash and shares, which is a 40 per cent premium to its closing price of 29p on Friday.  But the new Interactive Investor shares that small shareholders will be paid in are in a company that it admits is unlikely to be listed on any stock exchange within the next 12 months. British-made steel must be used to build the new high-speed rail link HS2, industry groups and unions have urged ministers. Prime Minister Boris Johnson last week gave the green light to the £106billion project, despite criticism of cost overruns and delays. The HS2 network will link London to Birmingham, Manchester and Leeds in a Y-shaped line. British Gas have reversed the decision to change the minimum top-up amount for prepayment customers from £1 to £5 after customer backlash. The Big Six supplier decided to change the limit at the same time it announced it was moving from Paypoint to Payzone terminals, leaving customers with 15,000 fewer locations to top up their supply. Prepayment customers voiced their frustrations with many saying they weren't made aware of the changes in advance whilst others complained that the change meant their nearest Payzone location was now miles away from them. The Indian-born founder of healthcare firm NMC Health has stood down from his company after questions were raised over the company's finances. B.R. Shetty has resigned as a non-executive chairman of the Abu Dhabi-based firm, which he started in 1974 and helped turn into the UAE's largest hospital provider.  His departure comes after a torrid two months for the firm, which started after US investment firm Muddy Waters put out a statement questioning NMC Health's financial affairs. Cladding is the housing subject no-one wants to resolve, due to the potentially eye-watering costs involved. But it's slowly suffocating those affected, namely flat owners living in blocks covered in cladding, who want to sell and move on with their lives. The issue is that the owners are unable to sell the properties until the buildings are proved to be safe, leaving them stuck in their homes and also seeing monthly bills rise as they are potentially unable to remortgage. Investing platform interactive investor is to buy rival The Share Centre for £62million in another round of consolidation in the industry. Under the deal, The Share Centre investors will receive 41p in a combination of cash and shares, which is a 41 per cent premium to The Share Centre's closing price of 29p on Friday.   Interacitve investors said the merger was needed to 'sustain the level of profitability' needed to keep investing in the platform's technology amid rising competition.  'Therefore, there is a strong strategic rationale for consolidation amongst compatible groups,' ii said. Sirius Minerals investors have been urged to back Anglo American's £405m takeover by the Yorkshire mining project's local MP –and fellow shareholder. Robert Goodwill, Conservative MP for Scarborough and Whitby, told the Mail his 'nightmare' would be shareholders voting against the rescue deal next month and the company going bust soon after. Sirius Minerals shares are down 10 per cent at 4.75p this morning. Francesca Washtell has the story... British asset manager Jupiter Fund Management has agreed to buy its smaller rival Merian Global Investors for £370million. The tie-up will create a £67billion fund giant. Jupiter has £45.2billion of assets under management, while Merian oversees £22.4billion.  The deal is the latest among actively run fund managers, which are facing rising regulatory costs and pressure on fees as more investors turn to passive funds aiming to do no more than track the makeup of a benchmark index such as the FTSE 100. For the best part of a decade, the future of the cheque has been in doubt.  At one point, a decision was made to scrap them altogether, although this was subsequently reversed.  Now, exclusive data from HSBC for This is Money shows that over the festive period, the number cashed digitally soared.  Laura Ashley shares have fallen 32 per cent after the troubled high street retailer confirmed it needs a bigger loan to cope with 'challenging' trading conditions.  The homeware and fashion chain said that its Malaysian owner, MUI Asia Limited, was in talks with US lender Wells Fargo to unlock more money to meet 'immediate funding requirements'. If it does not manage to access the required amount of money, it 'will need to consider all appropriate options'.  It comes as Laura Ashley said sales fell 11 per cent in the last half of 2019 due to 'market headwinds' and weaker consumer spending. Shares are down 32 per cent at 2.19p. The Bank of Mum and Dad helps to fund as many as 60 per cent of first-time buyer home purchases in some parts of the UK.  With high house prices making raising a deposit tough, parents and grandparents regularly step in with potentially tens of thousands of pounds to give the younger generations a leg-up. But proposed changes to inheritance tax could make it more costly for families to help their children onto the housing ladder, with a proposed 10 per cent tax levied on sums above £30,000 given away each year. I pay tax on my pension, should I pay tax on my savings as well? Steve Webb replies: Normally, once you have taxable income above the £12,500 personal allowance, whether from things like state pensions, private pensions or earnings, you should be paying tax. But there are various extra tax breaks for savings income which mean that you can easily be in the position of paying tax on your pension but not on your other savings income. I will run through the main ones which apply.  The Holden car brand will be no more, with General Motors opting to dump the name synonymous with Australian motoring by next year. After closing the company's local manufacturing operations in 2017, GM has taken the 'difficult' decision to retire the brand in both Australia and New Zealand.  GM will not just axe the Holden name but also stop selling cars in Australia, the American auto giant's international operations senior vice president Julian Blissett announced on Monday. 
