{ By Associated Press   Published:  01:23, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8011145/Trump-takes-Daytona-500-warmup-lap-presidential-limousine.html }
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) - President Donald Trump gave an election-year embrace to NASCAR and its fans Sunday when he became the second president ever to attend the Daytona 500. The presidential motorcade took to the track to join in a warm-up lap after he had told the crowd that the racers and their teams were competing "for pure American glory." Following a recitation of the opening command, "Gentleman, start your engines,'' Trump got into his black limousine for a ceremonial spin around Daytona International Speedway. He had joked moments earlier in a Fox interview that while as president, he was not allowed to drive his own car, " Im going to hop into one of these cars and I'm going to get into this race if possible. I love the idea.创 Given the honor of grand marshal for the race, Trump gave thousands of fans a flyover of Air Force One and then rode onto the track in the presidential motorcade as the audience roared with delight. The motorcade took roughly a quarter lap before pulling aside in an infield staging area. Asked what it was about NASCAR that he most enjoyed, the president said, ``I think its really the bravery of these people. ... it takes great courage.创 President George W. Bush appeared at the race during his reelection year. "For 500 heart-pounding miles these fierce competitors will chase the checkered flag ... and make their play for pure American glory, and thats what it is, pure American glory,创 Trump said before the race. President Donald Trump, accompanied by first lady Melania Trump, gives the instructions "gentlemen, start your engines," before the start of the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race at Daytona International Speedway, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020, in Daytona Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) He said the Daytona 500 was ``a legendary display of roaring engines, soaring spirits and the American skill, speed and power that weve been hearing about for so many years. The tens of thousands of patriots here today have come for the fast cars and the world-class motorsports. But NASCAR fans never forget that no matter who wins the race, what matters most is God, family and country.创 Trump's reelection campaign planned to run an ad during the Fox broadcast of the race and fly an aerial banner near the speedway. About 100,000 people were expected to attend this year's race while millions more watched on television. About 9 million people took in last year's race on television. Trump tweeted Sunday morning: "Getting ready to go to the Daytona 500. Will be GREAT!" Trump left at about 3:40 p.m. and returned to Washington. The race was postponed after two lengthy rain delays totaling more than three hours. The race will now begin at 4 p.m. Monday. After his return Sunday evening to Washington, Trump will embark later this coming week on a Western state swing that will take him to rallies in Phoenix, Las Vegas and Colorado Springs, Colorado. His Western trip begins Tuesday in California, where hell attend a fundraiser in Beverly Hills. The trip is another demonstration of Trumps willingness to campaign not just in conservative strongholds but in states that lean Democratic, particularly Colorado, where Republican Sen. Cory Gardner faces a tough reelection battle. Arizona is expected to be a key swing state in the presidential election with its growing population of Hispanic voters. Race fans watch from the grandstands as Air Force One circles the Daytona International Speedway as President Donald Trump makes his arrival to attend the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race at Daytona International Speedway, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020, in Daytona Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Jim Topper) President Donald Trump's motorcade passes the grandstands as he leads the drivers around the track before the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race at Daytona International Speedway, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020, in Daytona Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Phelan M. Ebenhack) Air Force One, carrying President Donald Trump, makes a pass over Daytona International Speedway before the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020, in Daytona Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Phelan M. Ebenhack) President Donald Trump, accompanied by first lady Melania Trump, arrives Air Force One at Daytona Beach International Airport, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020, in Daytona Beach, Fla. Trump is en route to the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race at Daytona International Speedway. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) Fans watch from the grandstands as Air Force One circles the Daytona International Speedway as President Donald Trump makes his arrival to attend the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race at Daytona International Speedway, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020, in Daytona Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Terry Renna) President Donald Trump, left, and first lady Melania Trump wave to fans on pit road before the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race at Daytona International Speedway, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020, in Daytona Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Phelan M. Ebenhack) President Donald Trump's motorcade passes the grandstands as he leads the drivers around the track before the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race at Daytona International Speedway, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020, in Daytona Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/Phelan M. Ebenhack) 
