{ By Charlotte Karp and Josh Hanrahan For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  15:37, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042361/Shocking-new-details-emerge-final-hours-boy-left-daycare-minibus-die.html }
A three-year-old boy who was allegedly left to die on a daycare mini bus was forgotten about twice and was the only child on board, a court heard.  The boy's body was found at about 3.15pm last Tuesday at Edmonton, near Cairns in Queensland, in a tragedy that has left the local community reeling.   Bus driver and Goodstart Early Learning Centre manager Michael Glenn Lewis, 45, and Goodstart employee Dionne Batrice Grills, 34, are charged with the toddler's manslaughter.  Cairns Magistrates Court was told on Monday the pair had 'inexplicably' forgotten about the child twice, the first occasion during the morning run. The boy's mother, Muriel Namok, called Goodstart to reveal her son had not been collected.   When Lewis and Grills returned to take him to daycare, the boy was strapped into a baby chair two spots back from the driver's seat - and was the only child on the bus.   Senior Sergeant Maynard Marcum said the pair had somehow forgotten about the boy they had been sent to collect for a second time.     'It was one child only and somehow in that 3.5km to 4.5km [to his daycare] the child was forgotten,' Sen-Sgt Marcum told the court, according to The Courier Mail.  'So when they arrived at the childcare centre the child was forgotten again.' Sen-Sgt Marcum said Lewis then allegedly drove the bus to a meeting in Bayview Heights for several hours while the child was on board. The toddler allegedly spent the next six hours sweltering inside the bus as the mercury rose to 36C.  Lewis discovered the boy's lifeless body at the beginning of his afternoon school run at Hambledon State School at 3pm and immediately called Triple-0. Children's bodies heat up three to five times faster than adults' bodies do The younger the child, the more vulnerable they are  On a 29C day, temperatures inside a car can reach 44C in just ten minutes This can cause 'serious injury' and brain damage After 20 minutes, the temperature reaches a fatal 60.2C, which could kill Winding down the windows or parking in the shade will do little as it doesn't affect the car's core temperature  According to the transcript of the call read out to the court, Lewis told the emergency operator: 'Oh my God, this kid is dead. 'The child was left on the bus all day. So sorry, buddy. 'I'm going to jail. Oh my God, my whole life is over.'    The court also heard allegations Lewis had 'fraudulently' signed in the young boy more than two hours before the bus arrived at the daycare centre. Police allege that the boy had been signed in by Lewis at 7.35am last Tuesday on the Goodstart's electronic sign-in system.  However, the boy was not collected from his home by the bus until 9.15am, and CCTV footage showed the bus did not arrive at the daycare site until 9.33am. Earlier on Tuesday his colleague Grills - who had worked at the daycare centre for less than a month - also faced court.  Police allege Grills was on the bus with Mr Lewis for the morning run, before the centre manager made the grim discovery when he returned to the vehicle later that afternoon.   Grills was granted strict conditional bail and is forbidden from contacting her ex- colleagues, her co-accused or the dead child's family, except through her lawyers. She was ordered to return to court on March 18.  The shattered family of the young boy was in court for the brief hearing. A relative told the ABC they were 'distraught' about what had happened and called the young victim a 'cheerful little boy'.  'We're all distraught at the moment. We just can't believe this has happened. We just want answers,' Thomas Namok said. 'The last few days have just been terrible but everyone [in the family] will continue to support each other. 'He was just a cheerful little boy … we would always laugh every time he's around. That's what I remember of him. It's going to be sad he's not going to be around anymore.'  Earlier on Tuesday, Acting Detective Inspector Jason Smith spoke to reporters outside the court, saying the charges should provide answers for the boy's devastated family. 'The manslaughter charge refers to an act or a mission which is negligent and has brought about the death of another person,' he said. 'The family is suitably distressed and very upset about this. And hopefully, now that the matter is before the court, they'll get the answers that they need.' Goodstart has formally stood aside the two workers. It's pick-up and drop-off services remain suspended nationally, and its Edmonton centre is closed. 7.35am: Edmonton Goodstart Early Learning Centre manager Michael Glenn Lewis 'fraudulently' checks in the boy on the electric sign-in system. 8.30am: The boy's mother calls to ask if he can be picked up, as he was not collected on the initial morning run. 9.15am: Lewis and his colleague Dionne Batrice Grills collect the boy from his home on the minibus. 9.33am: The bus pulls into the daycare carpark, but the boy - who is strapped into a baby seat, two seats away from the front door - never gets off, despite being clearly visible. **During the day the temperature rises to 36C in the Cairns area.  2.45pm: The bus leaves for the afternoon run, with the boy still in his seat. 3pm: Lewis makes a desperate call to Triple-0, telling the operator: 'Oh my God, this kid is dead'  
