cars
{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  21:34, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-8039635/Incredible-footage-1911-New-York-City-colorized-artificial-intelligence-high-resolution.html }
A film taken in 1911 entitled 'A Trip Through New York City ' has been brought back to life more than a hundred years later by artificial intelligence. Stills from the film were 'upscaled' using Gigapixel AI and DAIN, which clears up and sharpens the images even if they have been enlarged and become blurry. Colorized, the eight-minute clip transports viewers back in time to the Statue of Liberty, Battery Park, the New York Harbor and the famous Flatiron Building on Fifth Avenue. A typical street scene: The men are dressed in long jackets and slacks,while all of the women are wearing dresses, with the upper classes fitted with frills and lace. Both men and women are all seen wearing hats in this still. The video was 'produced only three years before the outbreak of World War I, the everyday life of the city recorded here - street traffic, people going about their business - has a casual, almost pastoral quality,' the Museum of Modern Art wrote. Here, we see streets with trolleys, wagons, horse and buggies. Using neural networks, the YouTuber was able to clear up and sharpen the images in the video, which take the viewer through Fifth Avenue, over the Brooklyn Bridge (pictured) and even through Battery Park The famous Flatiron Building (pictured), known for its odd shape, today looks almost exactly like it did in the 1900s. What's different: Horses and carriages where there is now wall-to-wall traffic, and a stylishly-dressed woman in a long dress and ornate hat. Looking north on Broadway, this cathedral has not changed much, but the trolleys are gone, and the streets are now clogged with cars and vendors selling street food. The video these stills are taken from was filmed by a team of cameramen with the Swedish company Svenska Biografteatern. The cameramen were sent around the world to take photos and videos of well-known places.  The streets in 1911 were lined with trolley tracks and were mostly bustling with buggies, but a few cars were used on the roads by the upper class. Here, what must have been an affluent family crams into a car. Pictured is a scene over the Brooklyn Bridge. The bridge now has about half the space for those taking in the sights as they walk along. The restored video transport modern day viewers back to New York City in 1911. Here, we see how all the men dressed in nearly-identical suits and hats on a daily basis.  The John Ericsson statue (pictured) in Battery Park also makes an appearance in the video. The statue, in honor of the American-Swedish inventor and engineer, looks almost identical now as it did back then. 
