cars
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  23:09, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8010829/New-Audi-A1-reveals-tech-appeal.html }
Building a bridge between a prestige brand and a small, affordable car is one of the toughest things you can do. Cars tend to be built down to a price, or up to a particular standard. The middle ground is not easy to find. Many have tried, but few have triumphed. Mercedes-Benz packaged its renowned technology and quality into its tiny sub-brand, Smart - the shoebox-sized city machine that, for a time, was flavour of the month but has gradually slipped from view. BMW has found success in the small car market with its Mini - albeit via a completely separate, reborn brand - with its nostalgic appeal and brilliant driving dynamics. But such successes are rare. Some attempts have been illogical, and failed spectacularly - like iconic sports brand Aston Martin with its rather forgettable Cygnet, which enjoyed a shelf life of less than two years. Thud. Which brings us to Audi and the new, second-generation version of its cute-as-a-button A1. This is an important car for Audi - in many ways its most important. Mostly because the prestige marques see these entry-level models as the chance to turn first-time buyers into lifelong customers. Start with an A1 and a couple of decades later you'll have progressed to an A6 or, more likely, one of Audi's flagship SUVs. The four rings made a great fist of this "smoke and mirrors" trick a decade ago with its original A1 - a car that looked small but felt big. The original A1 captured the crisp design, thoughtful technology and impressive quality for which the German brand is known - but packaged it in an ultra-compact, but surprisingly serviceable "Sportback". Now, 10 years since the A1 was born and eight years after its arrival in Australia, Audi is back with a second-generation A1. So, how did they do? Well...the reprised A1 has been very well received, but I'm not entirely convinced that they've managed to quite recapture the magic. The new car is substantially bigger, for a start - a plus by any measure - but that may partly explain why we were slightly less "amazed" by this car than its predecessor. For the record it's grown by 56mm in length and 94mm in wheelbase - but is no wider. Audi proudly points out that the new A1 is actually larger than the original big-brother A3 - almost a requirement in these days of ever-larger models. The A1 gains an additional 65 litres in the cargo compartment - now measuring a useful 335L. The second-generation A1 will, initially at least, be offered in three configurations with three engines of varying size and output. Baby of the fleet is the A1 30 TFSI - utilising a very small, three-cylinder, 1-litre turbocharged engine, delivering modest numbers of 85kW and 200Nm. The best number, of course, is the starting price - a rather un-Audi ask of $32,850 plus on-road costs. Next in line is the car tested here, the 35 TFSI, which steps up to a slightly larger, and considerably better-powered 1.5-litre, turbocharged four cylinder. With 110 kW and 250 Nm it's not exactly a firecracker but for $35,290 is probably the value-buy of this range. Those two models both use a seven-speed, double-clutch transmission. Those wanting more power might opt for the 40 TFSI, whose 2-litre, turbocharged engine pumps out a frisky 147kW and 320Nm. That means a brisk 0-100km/h time of just 6.5 seconds. But getting yourself into that car, admittedly with a swag of extra goodies, will set you back at least $46,450, which jumps it up into an entirely different value league than its two siblings. All models enjoy twin digital screens (8.8-inch for the centre console and multi-media interface, 10.5-inch for driver's instrument panel), as well as dual USB outlets, available Google Earth navigation and mapping (featuring traffic alerts, fuel outlets and other route information). Autonomous emergency braking, lane departure and pre-collision system underpins a five-star safety rating. The extra spend on the 35 model tested here brings larger (17-inch) alloys, wireless phone charging and auto-dimming mirror. But the additional performance is dulled, somewhat, by the lack of gearshift paddles, and the non-appearance of Audi's very good Drive Select system (available in the flagship model). The seven-speed DSG transmission is efficient but was occasionally obstinate when it came to shifting down to feed extra revs to the engine. The A1's interior is efficient and minimalist - as has become the style of late - although the use of some hard-ish plastics and fairly grey colour palette of our test machine detracted from the generally premium feel of this car. Seats were excellent. Surprisingly for a premium brand, the A1 offered an old-style manual handbrake, instead of the electronic version so common these days. Road noise, too, was a rather unwelcome guest and one we're unused to experiencing in an Audi. The first A1 we liked - a lot. This one, not quite as much, despite the very obvious improvements in technology and space. It's at least as pretty as its predecessor (in fact probably more so) and it delivers excellent ride and handling, with decent equipment levels for the price. But does it build that bridge between the brand and a new, entry-level market? Hard to say - and even harder to achieve. AUDI A1 35 TFSI SPORTBACK HOW BIG? Still in the premium small-car segment, but substantially bigger in every way than its very successful predecessor. HOW FAST: Performance of the mid-range, 1.5-litre turbo model is acceptably smart, if not outright quick. The flagship model sounds like a real hoot to drive, though. HOW THIRSTY? The tested model boasts a thirst of 5.8L/100km. Switch down to the 1-litre, 3-cylinder 30 TFSI and you'll trim that to an impressive 5.4L/100km. HOW MUCH? Models start from $32,350 plus on-roads; up to $46,450. Our test car costs $35,290. 
