{ By Daniel Martin Policy Editor For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:33, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8010579/New-environment-secretary-George-Eustice-admits-protect-Storm-Dennis.html }
New Environment Secretary George Eustice risked sparking anger in flood-hit areas yesterday after warning he will 'never be able to protect every single household' from extreme weather. Less than a week into his ministerial post, Mr Eustice warned the nature of climate change means extreme weather events such as this weekend's deluge are becoming more common, advising: 'We have to live with that fact.' But he insisted the Government is investing billions in flood infrastructure and had done 'everything that [it] can do with a significant sum of money'. Speaking to Sky News during a visit to York – one of the worst hit areas – Mr Eustice said 600 flood schemes, protecting more than 200,000 homes, had been introduced over the past five years and roughly £2.5billion had been spent on flood defences. He denied the Government had been caught off guard by this weekend's floods, saying: 'It's not the case that we're not doing anything; we've done a huge amount. 'We can't do anything about these extreme weather events but the steps that we've taken have meant the impact of those weather events have affected fewer properties. 'The fact is, these extreme weather events are becoming more common – we have to live with that fact. But we're spending billions of pounds on flood infrastructure.' He added: 'There is always more that can be done. We'll never be able to protect every single household just because of the nature of climate change and the fact that these weather events are becoming more extreme, but we've done everything that we can do with a significant sum of money, and there's more to come.' The comments risk angering flood victims who have blamed a lack of protection from damage to homes and business. Speaking about planning ahead of Storm Dennis, Mr Eustice said: 'I had a conference call with the local resilience forums. 'I've been in regular contact with our teams on the ground, we've had teams for instance in Bewdley [Worcestershire], putting in temporary defences.' His comments come as the UK is suffering a wetter winter than usual, after one of the wettest autumns on record. The Met Office said rainfall records up to and including Saturday afternoon show around 13.8 inches of rain has fallen since the start of December – 6 per cent above the normal level. But despite the floods this weekend, the winter tally is unlikely to beat 2014's record, when around 21 inches of rain fell over the three-month period. Met Office forecaster Craig Snell said: 'We are about 30th in the table in terms of wet winters as it stands. We've had a couple of notable rain events but in other years there has been much more rain which has fallen gradually, so it isn't noticed as much because it doesn't cause the same problems that we see with the downpours this weekend.' In December, East Anglia – which gets an average of two inches of rain in the month – and South East England – which gets 3.2 inches – both saw 150 per cent of their average rainfall for the period.  Yesterday Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said the Government was 'stepping up its response' to extreme weather situations. He said it will allocate £4billion for flood defences over the next six years. They are usually called out in emergencies to douse blazes. But such was the flooding following Storm Dennis that one group of firemen had to be saved – from the water. Members of the Shropshire Fire and Rescue Service were evacuated by boat after their engine became trapped. Colleagues rescued the firefighters stranded in Lindridge, Worcestershire, after the River Teme burst its banks yesterday.  The crew clambered on to a dinghy, leaving the vehicle behind. Elsewhere, an ambulance was stranded in Nantgarw, South Wales.  £850m supercomputer to forecast storms  By Victoria Allen Science Correspondent in Seattle  Major storms will be forecast up to eight days in advance thanks to the Met Office upgrading to an £850million supercomputer. The new weather forecasting system will be the fastest in the world – increasing Met Office computing capacity six-fold. Data collected will be used to help more accurately predict storms, select the most suitable locations for flood defences and anticipate changes to the global climate when the device is turned on in August 2022. Professor Albert Klein Tank, head of the Met Office Hadley Centre for Climate Science and Services, said: 'There will be more and more lead time for forecasts like the storm last week and this weekend's Storm Dennis. And that's really a huge benefit for preparing. Now it's five days lead time, almost, and when you go back in time, it was only one or two days. 'So increasing that time horizon is really one of the efforts in weather forecasting.' The 'lead time' to predict a significant weather event was only two days a decade ago, which gave little time to prepare flood defences, or warn elderly people and hospitals.  But the new supercomputer can analyse smaller 'boxes' in terms of area of the atmosphere. Professor Tank said events would be predicted in eight days in the coming decades, and that extreme weather forecasts could come ten days ahead within 50 years. This would help to prepare transport hubs like airports and railways too. The Met office currently uses three Cray XC40 supercomputers, which collectively form one of the most powerful weather and climate processors in the world. Operational since December 2016, they can carry out 14,000 trillion calculations per second. This system – which is due to reach the end of its life in late 2022 – is in the top 50 of the world's most powerful computers, and contains enough storage to hold over 100 years' worth of HD films. The Government is putting £1.2billion into the new measures.  The supercomputer itself is expected to cost £854million, with remaining funds going towards investment in the observations network and programme offices over a ten-year period. Business and Energy Secretary Alok Sharma said: 'Come rain or shine, our significant investment for a new supercomputer will further speed up weather predictions, helping people be more prepared for weather disruption from planning travel journeys to deploying flood defences.'   By Raven Saunt and Danyal Hussain For Mailonline   The body of a man in his 60s has been found in a river in South Wales, with the region bearing the brunt of the destructive Storm Dennis which is causing devastation all over the country today.  The discovery, which is the third confirmed death from the storm, comes after a month's worth of rain hit Britain in the space of 48 hours this weekend, with more flood alerts and warnings today than on any other occasion on record.  Police in South Wales have declared a major incident and dispatched emergency services to rescue those battling flash flooding, with Shropshire, Worcestershire and Herefordshire following suit.  Today's death came after the walker fell into the River Tawe, in south Wales, at around 10am, before powerful floods washed his body away. He was eventually found eight miles from where he'd fallen in.  A huge search and rescue operation was also launched in the early hours of the morning to find a missing woman, believed to be in her early 20s, spotted mysteriously walking into the sea in Brighton, Sussex.  Despite hours of frantic searching, which included a Coastguard helicopter, she has still not been found.  A second woman was also swept away by floodwater in Worcestershire but the search has now been called off until tomorrow. Meanwhile, locals in the Rhondda Valley, South Wales watched aghast as a torrent of thick black sludge cascaded down a hillside, with today's storm triggering a horrific landslide.   The 'life-threatening' Storm Dennis has caused flooding carnage across Britain and prompted the Met Office to issue its highest level warning with heavy rain and fierce winds of up to 91mph. By 4pm on Sunday there were 254 flood warnings, meaning immediate action is required, and 349 flood alerts warning people to be prepared, covering an area from Scotland's River Tweed to the rivers of west Cornwall.  These 614 flood alerts and warnings were the most ever recorded in a single day. The situation was said to be particularly perilous in South Wales, where the Met Office issued a red warning due to heavy rainfall and flooding risk. It is the first red warning issued for rain since 2015.    Gwent Police said that residents of Skenfrith, Monmouthshire, were being advised to evacuate due to the flooding. One of the worst-hit areas in South Wales was the village of Nantgarw, Rhondda Cynon Taff, near Cardiff, which had seen entire streets left underwater since the early hours of Sunday morning. Emergency teams including firefighters and volunteers had been evacuating the village's Oxford Street since around 5am and were still working midday on Sunday.  Assistant Chief Constable Jennifer Gilmer, said: 'I would like to reassure the public who have been affected that we are doing everything we can, and will continue to work tirelessly until all risks dissipate. 'I would like to thank all our emergency services and rescue partners for their assistance and professionalism. 'I have very clear advice for everybody, which is not to panic, and to be sensible, stay well clear of any danger such as streams and rivers, and contact us in an emergency.' The force have told people in affected areas to stay indoors unless a journey was necessary, avoid waterways, and monitor local and social media for updates. Ms Gilmer later added she felt her force had done enough to warn the public of the risk of flooding, stating that the subsequent rainfall was 'worse than people had anticipated'. She said: 'When things began to escalate overnight we were very well placed to escalate our response and get to as many people as possible.' South Wales Fire and Rescue Service received an 'unprecedented' 1,300 calls on Sunday alone and had carried out 76 life rescues. Group manager Paul Mason said the scene his team had faced was the worst he had experienced in his 31-year career. He said: 'We started getting calls at 5am. 'The water was up to the window sills in some instances, so we sent a number of boats and crews down here to assist with our partner agencies, systematically going through each of the houses, knocking on doors, trying to prioritise individuals. 'This weather is unprecedented. We haven't seen this, it's incredible, and it's right throughout the South Wales Valleys. 'In my 31 years in the service this is the worst I've ever seen. I've never experienced anything like this before.' He said some residents had refused to leave their homes despite being encouraged to but would be monitored for their safety.  Resident Greg Curtis, 68, was rescued by lifeboat from the street around 1pm, said he and his wife were first woken by neighbours banging his home at 4am on Sunday morning, and described the incident as a 'nightmare'. He said: 'The water was about two feet up to my house. 'It just came really quick. I feel a bit miffed but it is what it is. 'I've lived here for 46 years and we've never had anything like this here. 'When the water comes down I'll go back and then we'll get into the insurance part and fight to get whatever.'  Melanie Hughes, 38, was also evacuated by lifeboat with along with her husband and two daughters, said she was awoken by shouting and car alarms in the early hours, and said many of their family's possessions had been lost. She said: 'Everyone's safe, which is the main thing. We were lucky. 'But our cars, kitchen, furniture, it's all gone. It's going to be a couple of months of hard work now. 'It was filthy, there was nothing to salvage.' Katherine Murphy, another evacuated resident, said: 'Our downstairs is just a total mess. It's filthy everywhere, it smells, it's horrible. 'I went downstairs about 5am because an alarm was going, and I saw there was water coming in downstairs. It was really quick. 'Outside the cars were under water.' Chris Davies, director of the Arc Training company in the nearby Treforest industrial estate, said the bottom floor of his business was 'totally under water', and said he was concerned whether the incident would be covered by insurance. He said: 'My thought now is whether this is covered by insurance, because it's a natural occurrence. 'It could mean a loss of business for us. It will take weeks to get back now. By the time you get your insurance claim in, get money back in, buy all new stuff, start trading again, you're talking thousands.'   The worst scenes were in Pontypridd, South Wales, where the high street was left completely underwater after the River Taff burst its banks. Ambulances were among several vehicles submerged in water with popular stores, including Costa Coffee and Boots, being blocked by the rising floodwaters.  At Nantgarw, a village near Cardiff. rescuers brought people from their homes in boats, while a helicopter was seen winching someone clear of floodwater at Crickhowell on the river Usk.  Declaring a major incident, South Wales Police said in a statement: 'The emergency services, jointly with local authority planning departments, local health boards, and organisations such as mountain rescue, Natural Resources Wales and utility companies, are working continuously to ensure the safety and welfare of those affected, minimise damage to infrastructure and property, and minimise disruption. 'Some communities have been cut-off as a result, but emergency service workers are working tirelessly to put measures in place to ensure the safety of residents. 'The public can be reassured that everything is being done to ensure their safety and that while obviously under significant demand, emergency services are coping with the pressure placed upon them.' Severe flood warning were issued for the Scottish Borders and for the River Neath in South Wales, while the River Taff burst its banks and left cars floating in roads with water rising up to invade neighbouring homes. Homeowners say they received flood alerts at 4am telling them to take immediate action and move to safety. One mother-of-two said: 'I was woken up by a phone call and then had a voicemail saying to get to safety. It was really frightening as I've never experienced flooding like this before.' An ambulance was spotted stranded in the water at nearby Nantgarw following a night of heavy downpours, while a high street was also submerged and people had to be rescued.  In Carmarthen, west Wales, the RSPCA had to save a flock of sheep who were stranded on farmland. Jason Finch, RSPCA inspector national water rescue coordinator, said: 'We're on full alert status. We've responded to more than 50 major incidents in just the past few hours today.'   Natural Resources Wales warned the 'very high' river could have 'significant impact downstream towards Cardiff.'   Gwent Police told residents in Skenfrith, Monmouthshire, to leave their homes due to flooding. Emergency centres are also being set up in a string of towns to provide cover for those affected. Staff manning a weather station on the Isle of Wight were counting the cost of the storm today. Their valuable equipment to measure wind speed was blown away and they are still trying to find it. The equipment, worth about £4,000, was checking the terrifying wind speeds when it was torn from its mountings. Isle of Wight Weather Centre meteorologist David Carrington posted online: 'The weather centre was also a causality of the storms. One of our Stevenson Screens worth over £1,000, plus £1,500 worth of equipment inside the screen, plus one of our pro weather stations attached to the outside of the screen worth another £1,500 was totally blown away by the strong winds. 'The equipment, set up as a remote station in a secure and secret location on Wroxall Downs, stopped transmitting data to us. 'We went up to have a look and it was just gone. We are gutted to say theleast.' He's hoping it will be handed back by anyone finding it and it hasn't been smashed beyond repair. Merthyr Tydfil County Borough Council also set up centres at Merthyr and Aberfan Leisure Centre. Villagers in Tonna near Neath, were evacuated by bus on Sunday morning. In the 24 hours to 7am, Tredegar in south-eastern Wales received four inches of rain, while the fastest gust recorded in the same period was in Aberdaron where 91 mph was measured at 6pm on Saturday. Meanwhile, a search is also underway for a woman feared to have been swept to her death on Brighton seafront in huge Storm Dennis waves today. She was seen in the water around 2.45am and despite hours of searching, there was no sign of her with rescuers fearing the worst. An 11-year-old boy was found safe and well in Dundee, Scotland, after going missing last night. Nearly 30,000 homes in towns and villages across Dorset were left without electricity and heating after torrential rain and howling gales from Storm Dennis knocked out power supplies, while residents were forced to evacuate their homes in parts of the Scottish Borders and in Wales. The Met Office has issued alerts for parts of Yorkshire, Wales, Devon, East Sussex and Kent. Rail services were suspended across South Wales after tracks were submerged by rain, while the line between Derby and Long Eaton was also closed. Flooding saw the M54 westbound closed at Telford, along with the A616 around Stocksbridge in South Yorkshire and the A52 between Stragglethorpe and Gamston in the East Midlands, Highways England said. Rhondda MP Chris Bryant set up a crowdfunding page to raise a target of £3,000 for residents affected by flooding in his constituency. The Labour MP wrote: 'Seeing the floods devastate our communities is truly heartbreaking. 'Homes and businesses across the Rhondda have been affected by the winds and rain of Storm Dennis and many families will have lost everything. 'We've been inundated with offers of support and help. At present the emergency services are advising volunteers to stay safe but will require support in the aftermath.' It comes as two people were killed by Storm Dennis yesterday, an 18-year-old man who got into difficulty in the sea off Kent and another who fell overboard from a fuel tanker near Margate Harbour.   Relief from Storm Dennis is still some distance away, the Met Office's Mr Dewhurst said, adding that 'heavy rain and strong winds' would continue across large parts of the UK today. 'South Wales will see a lot of rain fall before Dennis moves north later to Scotland and Northern Ireland.'  Earlier, the Ministry of Defence deployed British Army personnel to assist people in West Yorkshire areas badly hit by flooding during last weekend's Storm Ciara. Flights have been grounded for safety reasons, with British Airways and easyJet confirming cancellations. More than 230 easyJet flights in and out of the UK on Saturday were cancelled, while several sporting fixtures were also called off due to the weather. Two bodies were pulled from rough seas on Saturday, before the worst of the storm hit. One man was found following a huge search operation off Margate after an early-morning distress call, while another was found at Herne Bay. Families jetting off on February half-term breaks were left stranded as the 1,200-mile wide 'bomb cyclone' battered Britain. In dozens of towns still reeling from the devastation wrought by last week's Storm Ciara, the Army was drafted in to bolster flood defences. But experts warned this weekend's onslaught would cause further flooding.  The River Taff in Pontypridd, South Wales burst its banks this morning, leaving ambulances stranded and cars floating in floodwater.  Footage posted on social media shows Pontypridd High Street submerged in floodwater with Boots and Costa unreachable, as Storm Dennis ravages the nation. The fast-moving floods have also invaded homes in the town, which is near Cardiff.   Homeowners say they received flood alerts at 4am telling them to take immediate action and move to safety. One mother-of-two said: 'I was woken up by a phone call and then had a voicemail saying to get to safety. It was really frightening as I've never experienced flooding like this before.' Virgin cancelled four long-distance flights from Heathrow to Hong Kong and Boston scheduled for yesterday and today. Passengers were booked on to other services. Meanwhile, British Airways confirmed 40 short-haul flights to and from Heathrow last night and this evening had been cancelled, with routes to Amsterdam and Glasgow the worst affected. Under European air passengers' rights rules, airlines that cancel flights have a duty of care to provide replacement transport, as well as hotels and meals if necessary. BBC journalist Christian Fraser and his wife Topaz were among the holidaymakers whose travel plans were ruined. They were due to fly to Gran Canaria yesterday on a £3,500 easyJet package break, but were told the flights were cancelled and given no other information. 'No one's helped us and no one seems to know what's going on,' Mr Fraser told The Mail on Sunday. 'We now don't know whether to try to get to Gran Canaria through our own means. We tried to contact easyJet for help on Friday night but the call centres shut at 8pm.' Both the A14 Orwell Bridge in Suffolk and the M48 Severn Crossing eastbound between Monmouthshire and South Gloucestershire were shut due to strong winds while drivers were warned that other bridges and roads may be closed. Network Rail has imposed a 50mph speed limit on trains that will lead to some cancellations. Emergency crews and a rescue helicopter were yesterday scrambled to Herne Bay in Kent but were unable to save an 18-year-old man who got into difficulties. Earlier, a coastguard helicopter, a Royal Navy warship and RNLI lifeboats launched a rescue operation after a man fell from the 325ft Maltese fuel tanker, B Gas Margrethe, off Margate at 5.40am. A search is underway for a woman feared to have been swept to her death on Brighton seafront in huge Storm Dennis waves today. She was seen in the water around 2.45am and despite hours of searching, there's was no sign of her with rescuers fearing the worst. The Coastguard helicopter spent more than two hours with floodlights scanning the surface of the sea between the Marina and Palace Pier. The search is resuming now it's daybreak. A spokesman for Sussex Police said 'The alarm was raised by members of the public at about 2.45am after a woman was seen in the water. 'She has not yet been located and the Coastguard are preparing to recommence their search shortly.' A body was found after a seven-hour search in what the coastguard described as 'very rough' seas. In Yorkshire's Calder Valley, which was still recovering from the damage caused last week by Storm Ciara, 75 members of the 4th Battalion, Royal Regiment of Scotland, and another 70 reservists were deployed to help erect barriers and repair flood defences. John Curtin, the Environment Agency's executive director of flood and coastal risk management, said he was most concerned about Cumbria, Lancashire and Yorkshire. 'This storm could be a step up from what we have seen before,' he added.  'We had a big storm last weekend, [now we have] saturated catchments, snowmelt and rainfall, so it is the perfect storm.' The Environment Agency, which issued 34 flood warnings and 246 alerts, said preparations were under way to operate defences, flood storage reservoirs and temporary barriers to protect communities. Environment Secretary George Eustice said: 'We are fully focused on ensuring that communities are protected and have access to the support and advice they need to stay safe this weekend.' The Met Office last night confirmed that Storm Dennis was a 'bomb cyclone', which means its air pressure has dropped by 24 millibars or more in 24 hours. Met Office chief meteorologist Steve Willington said: 'Storm Dennis will bring another very unsettled spell of weather this weekend with a risk of flooding, particularly in parts of England and Wales and also southern Scotland, where snowmelt will add to the flood risk. 'Following Storm Ciara last weekend and further spells of rain this week, the ground is already saturated in places. Our advice is to keep an eye on the latest forecasts and weather warnings and to follow the safety advice.' A bomb cyclone is formed when the air pressure of a storm plummets by at least 24 millibars in 24 hours, causing huge storms and wind speeds of up to 100mph. A millibar is simply a unit of measurement used by meteorologists to describe air pressure – the force exerted by the air's weight. The standard surface pressure on Earth is 1013.2 millibars, and the lower the pressure drops within a cyclone, the more severe a storm it creates. On Thursday, Storm Dennis was classified as a bomb cyclone after the pressure dropped by 46 millibars in 24 hours. The name developed in the 1940s and 1950s when experts at Bergen University in Norway began calling storms created over the sea 'bombs' because they formed far more quickly than those over land. By the 1970s, the terms 'explosive cyclogenesis' and 'meteorological bombs' were being used by Professor Fred Sanders from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in scientific journals. The term 'bomb' has proved controversial.  When European researchers argued the term was too warlike, Prof Sanders asked: 'So why are you using the term front?' 
