cars
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  22:09, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8010685/Central-Coast-faces-fresh-thunderstorms.html }
Severe thunderstorms including large hail stones and damaging winds are moving over the NSW Central Coast, with residents warned to stay safe. The front was on Monday morning moving east towards Gosford and is forecast to hit the area about 8:45am before heading towards the coast. The Bureau of Meteorology said damaging winds and hail were likely, and advised locals to move their cars and items away from trees. A safe distance should also be kept from fallen power lines. The Hunter region is also set to experience thunderstorm conditions, as well as parts of the mid-north coast and northern Sydney. Ausgrid on Monday morning said about 300 homes and businesses across Sydney and the Central Coast remain without power after services were restored to almost 140,000 customers over the past seven days. "Ausgrid is in the final stages of the recovery process with some hard-to-access properties and homes with unique repair issues awaiting power restoration," the energy provider said in a statement. The company expected outages in some remote locations like Calabash Bay, Milsons Passage and Scotland Island to extend into this week but said it would provide generators to such customers. Meanwhile, questions are being asked about compensation from Ausgrid. According to the Ausgrid website, premises that have experienced a power outage for 12 hours or more in a metropolitan area or more than 18 hours in a non-metropolitan area can make a claim for $80. However the site also says "Interruption to supply relating to severe weather events or emergency situations may be excluded". West Pymble man Hae Dong Choi has been keeping his three daughters' phones charged with his car battery or portable batteries. "I can't make food," the father and private tutor told AAP on Saturday. "I have spent a lot of money and it's very inconvenient to have cold showers." Mr Dong Choi says Ausgrid wants receipts or photos for what was in his fridge before paying compensation. "They asked for proof (but) it's just common sense that whatever was in the fridge is gone," he said. 
