cars
{ By Peter Allen   Published:  17:11, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8007581/French-riot-police-spray-TEAR-GAS-faces-seated-Extinction-Rebellion-activists.html }
French riot police are today facing investigation for spraying peaceful Extinction Rebellion protesters in the face with tear gas. Shocking footage shows members of the environmental protection group sitting still on the ground as copious amounts of the excruciating gas is brutally sprayed into their eyes.   The filmed attack took place in the Alpine town of Chambery, where the environmental group was blocking the entrance of the local airport this morning.  'A number of us were sitting peacefully on the ground calling for the closure of the airport because of the environmental damage it causes,' said a protester. 'The riot police turned up, and one of them took out a can of tear gas and began attacking us with it. 'He was acting like he was a pest controller spraying bugs. It was disgusting. People became very ill, complaining of skin burns, eye problems and breathing difficulties. We have since complained to the police who have said there will be an investigation.' Extinction Rebellion posted video of the Chambery spraying on its social media account. There was no immediate comment from the CRS. It was a repeat on an incident in Paris last June when police from the same unit - the Republican Security Companies (CRS) - again used chemical agents on Extinction Rebellion demonstrators. Members of the CRS used the controversial spray cans on the Sully Bridge, close to Notre Dame Cathedral. The Paris prosecutor's office then opened a preliminary investigation for 'wilful violence by a person holding public authority'. In March last, French security forces also admitted using a 'last resort' chemical weapon against Paris rioters for the first time. Video posted online showed the debilitating substance coming out of gendarmerie armed cars close to the Champs Elysee. It was used against Yellow Vest protesters calling for President Emmanuel Macron to resign. The high-density noxious product contained the same power as 200 teargas grenades and was designed to knock people out indiscriminately in an emergency. But it raised questions among civic rights groups, as well as monitoring organisations, including the Hague-based Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, of which France is a member. Teargas is classed as a chemical weapon, and is actually banned from warzones, in line with international agreements. In Britain, teargas use is heavily restricted, and never used indiscriminately against crowds containing men, women and children, as happens in France. 
