cars
{ By Harry Howard For Mailonline   Published:  12:13, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8007121/Extinction-Rebellion-cause-chaos-blocking-roads-demand-London-Fashion-Week-CANCELLED.html }
Extinction Rebellion protesters angered motorists as they blocked roads in the capital on Saturday, demanding the cancellation of London Fashion Week. Dozens of demonstrators prevented traffic from passing through a busy intersection leading to The Strand in Westminster, where the world-famous trade show is being held. Protesters from the environmental group also gathered at Gatwick Airport, including one man who donned a tiger onesie as he mingled among passengers at the airport's south terminal. Scroll down for video.   But in central London, queues of vehicles started to build up and taxi and lorry drivers could be heard honking their horns and swearing at the protesters. The action was part of the environmental campaign group's calls for an end to London Fashion Week, which runs from February 14 to 18, claiming the industry is a major contributor to climate change. Demonstrators initially blocked three roads for about 20 minutes before letting traffic pass. They then moved further down The Strand to block two lanes. At one point a motorbike mounted the pavement to get past the group. A taxi driver shouted 'Just f****** move' to a samba band which stood in front of cars playing music. Protesters carried placards reading 'No more false fashion' and 'No fashion on a dead planet', while others wore dresses made from chains. It comes after Extinction Rebellion members delivered a letter to the British Fashion Council (BFC) on Monday, calling for it to cancel the next London Fashion Week, in September. Sara Arnold, who helped co-ordinate the protest, said: 'London is home to the cutting edge of sustainable and ethical design, and yet, London Fashion Week lags behind. 'And, despite having an active political engagement programme, you have done almost nothing to lobby for environmental policies, without which a transition with the urgency we need is simply impossible. 'We have all failed but now radical leadership is required. We need you, the British Fashion Council, as appointed industry administrators, to find the power and courage to centre a visionary process and protocol, without delay.' Ms Arnold said if the BFC does not cancel the September event, Extinction Rebellion will 'build pressure' and 'escalate' its actions. Last September, protesters covered in fake blood glued themselves to the entrance to London Fashion Week, blocking access to the trade show.  At Gatwick, the protesters gathered in disguise outside Costa Coffee in the south terminal at around 9.30am before revealing themselves.    They were moving through the international hub to raise awareness of aircraft pollution.  Protesters were instructed to arrive 'incognito' and pretend to be waiting to meet someone amid fears they would not be allowed in to the airport. However, once assembled, the group of about 10 activists unveiled their full complement of Extinction Rebellion banners. shirts and badges, and began mingling with the public. Passengers landing on flights from Salzburg, Madrid and Kingston were greeted by activists in bright colours - including a man in a tiger onesie waving a banner saying 'Climate Alert'. Leaflets handed out apologised for the disruption but said 'We need your help'. A post on Facebook for the Gatwick Action event said: 'Let's get the message out - change can happen - and those who fly have the opportunity to make a big contribution by cutting their flights.' The peaceful leafleting campaign is being watched over by airport security staff, who chatted to the activists. 
