{ By Frances Mulraney and Rachel Sharp and Valerie Edwards For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:57, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8006745/Harrowing-911-call-Faye-Swetliks-mom-reports-missing-three-days-body-found.html }
The heartbreaking 911 call made by the mother of tragic Faye Swetlik an hour after the young girl first went missing on Monday has been released by police. Selena Collins can be heard battling through tears in the distressing call as she tells the dispatcher 'I can't find my daughter'.  The call reveals that she and neighbors had checked all of the surrounding houses for the six-year-old before calling the cops.  Missing South Carolina six-year-old Faye Swetlik's body was found in a wooded area near her house on Thursday before her male neighbor Coty Scott Taylor, 30, was also found dead in his home. He lived about 100 yards away from the little girl's home. Authorities confirmed on Friday that Faye's body was found in woods between her home in Churchill Heights and a Napa Auto Parts store in Cayce, South Carolina, on Thursday around 11am, after 'a critical piece of evidence' was found in Taylor's trash can.   Monday, at 2.45pm Faye Swetlik is seen getting off a school bus after attending first grade at Sprindale Elementary School Monday, between 2.45pm & 3.44pm Faye is last seen playing in front of her Londonderry Square home in Churchill Heights when her mother discovers her missing Monday, 5pm Faye's mother, Selena Collins, reports her missing after a frantic search of the neighborhood. Up to 50 officers canvas the neighborhood. Department of Public Safety's Chief Byron Snellgrove said there did not appear to be any evidence of abduction at the time, and her disappearance doesn't meet the criteria for an Amber Alert Tuesday FBI and SLED helicopter teams join more than 200 law enforcement investigators in the search for Faye. A tip hotline number is set up for the public. Community members gather at Trinity Baptist Church to pray for Faye's safe return Wednesday  Cops continue to knock on doors in the neighborhood, but admit in a press conference not everyone within their search area had been spoken to. Police also search the woods behind the homes. They also make a public appeal for the drivers of an SUV and another car seen in the area to contact them. Only one driver does  Thursday morning Cops discover a 'critical' piece of evidence in a trash can belonging to 602 Picadilly Square, where Coty Scott Taylor, 30, lives. Police don't reveal what the evidence is, but say leads them to the woods neighboring an autoparts store behind the home  Thursday, 11am Cayce Department of Public Safety Chief Byron Snellgrove discovers Faye's body in the woods behind the home of her neighbor, and near her home. Police say her body was moved shortly before she was found, and that she was killed elsewhere Thursday, after 11am Police then head to 602 Picadilly Square where they find the body of Taylor. It is not yet clear how he died Friday  Authorities reveal where they discovered Faye's body and confirm that neighbor Coty Scott Taylor is linked to her death. They will not reveal anymore details about their deaths, but said autopsies will be performed on Saturday  Authorities released the harrowing 911 call made by Faye's mother on Monday to report her daughter's disappearance.  In the call, the distraught mother Selena Marie Collins is heard gasping and sobbing uncontrollably.  'I need to report a missing child. We can't find my daughter,' she tells the dispatcher. 'She was just right in front of my front porch. 'She was playing outside. I can't find her [inaudible],' Collins continued. 'She's six. She's going to be seven in June.'  Collins describes the clothes Faye was wearing to the dispatcher as she is connected through to the police department. She tells them Faye was wearing polka-dot green boots, a pink rose skirt, and a black t-shirt with neon design.     'I last saw her probably about an hour ago,' Collins added.   'She was right in front on my front porch.'  Collins says that they 'checked all the houses in my neighborhood' and that any neighbors she met with were out to help look for her.  The 911 call concludes as police tell Collins to stay in her yard close to the last place she was and that a unit with a dog was on its way in case they needed to track her.      When Swetlik's body was found on Thursday, a search party, led by Cayce Department of Public Safety Chief Byron Snellgrove, had gathered to map out a route to re-canvass the woods behind the home.  The evidence in Troy's trash 'led' officers to the same area they intended to canvass, and Swetlik's body was discovered shortly after by Snellgrove.   Police would not say in what condition her body was found, but that she had been moved to the area shortly before she was discovered.  The body of Taylor - who is linked to her death - was then found nearly at his home at 602 Piccadilly Square. Police would not confirm how Faye was killed, or how Taylor died.  Taylor, who did not have a criminal record and was not known to police, is not related to the little girl nor is he a friend, authorities confirmed.  'He was merely a neighbor who lived at Churchill Heights,' Sgt Evan Antley, with the Cayce Department of Public Safety, said Friday.  He also confirmed that officers had previously spoken to Taylor during the search for the missing girl.  Police confirmed the two deaths are connected.  Antley assured the community 'that there is no reason to believe there is an active threat'. No arrests had been made and officers are not seeking any other persons of interest.  Antley would not comment on the condition of the bodies or the causes of death.   Officers had returned to the scene after finding 'critical evidence' in a trash can belonging to the suspected killer on Thursday.   Antley said: 'Based on that discovery we narrowed down an area that we felt as an investigative team that we needed to go back to and look for more evidence.' Antley confirmed they had been to the area multiple times prior to the discovery. Officers began a new search and Faye's body was found at around 11 a.m. Based on preliminary investigations from the coroner's officer Faye had not been in that location 'for very long at all', Antley said. Shortly after finding Faye, officers found the body of Taylor at 602 Piccadilly Square, which is around 100 to 150 yards from the little girl's home where she was last seen alive, Antley said.  Lexington County Coroner Margaret Fisher said autopsies will take place on Saturday.   Though authorities would not confirm what the 'critical evidence' that led them to the crime scene was, Antley said it 'would have been listed on her missing person flier'.  The missing person flier stated that Faye was last seen wearing polka dot rain boots, a pink flowered skirt, and a black T-shirt with the word 'PEACE' written on the front.  Antley said he wanted 'everyone to continue to pray for Faye Swetlik'.  The Churchill Heights neighborhood where Faye lived continued to be under heavy police presence on Friday. Footage posted on Twitter showed that police had extended the crime scene to a different set of apartments near Londonderry Lane where Faye lived. WIS-TV reported that several law enforcement officers were coming and going in the apartments and the wooded area surrounding them Friday morning.   Yellow police tape was also across the little girl's home.  The local community had taken to social media speculating about the identity of the deceased male and his connection to Faye's murder.   The latest revelations come as heartbreaking pictures emerged of Valentine's Day cards that the little girl's classmates made for her in the hope she would be returned alive. Some of her friends in the first grade at Springdale Elementary School made the cards for her before the news of her death broke Thursday. Lexington School District Two released a statement Thursday saying the school community was 'heart-broken' by her untimely death. 'We are heart-broken with news of the death of Faye Swetlik, a first-grade student at Springdale Elementary, who went missing earlier this week. When the school community experiences a tragedy like the loss of a child, it deeply affects all of us,' it said.  Flowers, balloons and teddy bears had also been left at the entrance to the Churchill Heights neighborhood for the little girl. The search for the missing six-year-old came to an end Thursday when authorities confirmed they had found her body in her South Carolina neighborhood.  The body of a deceased adult male was also located in the neighborhood, authorities said. Director of Public Safety for Cayce, Byron Snellgrove announced the news through tears at a Thursday press conference where he spoke for only about a minute and took no questions.  'It's with extremely heavy hearts that we announce we have found the body that the coroner has identified as Faye,' Snellgrove said.  Faye's death is being treated as a homicide and no arrests have been made, he added.    Authorities did not identify the male or release information about where exactly the bodies were found or whether the two deaths were connected. However, Snellgrove said 'there was no danger to the public'. DailyMail.com requests for comment to the Cayce Department of Public Safety and the Lexington County Coroner haven't been returned.  The media was alerted to intensified police activity Thursday morning, with officers and fire crews blocking anyone from entering the neighborhood, even residents. Investigators were also seen searching trash cans. Authorities had given an update on the investigation Thursday morning.  At that time, police said they had towed two cars from the home where the child lived.   Antley confirmed that the vehicles were removed from the home but didn't share details of anything that 'may or may not have been found in those vehicles'.  The sergeant also confirmed that officers had searched Faye's home 'multiple times'.  Police had also closed off the neighborhood where the girl lived to everyone except residents, their visitors and delivery trucks. An officer was also stationed outside of the girl's home.  Hundreds of officers in Cayce, along with state police and FBI agents, worked around the clock to try to find the little girl.  Searchers knocked multiple times on the doors of every home in the neighborhood.  Police initially said they were hunting for two cars that were seen in the Churchill Heights neighborhood before Faye vanished after getting home from school on Monday. Cayce Department of Public Safety posted images of the cars, saying: 'The two vehicles shown were in the neighborhood during the time #FayeSwetlik was last seen.'  Antley confirmed Thursday morning that they had identified and spoken to the person driving the Chevrolet Trailblazer, but investigators are still seeking information about the silver sedan.   Faye's bereaved grandmother shared a video showing the six-year-old singing 'You Are My Sunshine' on social media in the hours after authorities in South Carolina confirmed she was found dead.   Her grandmother, Ruth Collins, had posted several messages on her Facebook page expressing hope that her granddaughter would eventually be found. 'I want my baby back,' Collins said at a prayer vigil on Tuesday. 'We've got to find her.'  After officials announced that a body had been found, Collins posted a picture of a single burning candle, and a touching picture of her kissing her granddaughter's head. Faye was last seen playing in front of the Londonderry Sq home in Cayce, near Columbia, at approximately 3.45pm.  Her family reported her missing at 5pm, saying they had been searching for her.  Police did not say whether the person driving the Trailblazer lived in the Churchill Heights neighborhood.  Authorities released footage of Faye getting off her school bus on Wednesday morning as they announced that the search for the girl had been expanded.  In the footage, Faye gets out of her seat, speaks to the bus driver and then exits the vehicle. According to a witness, this was at around 2.50pm Monday.     Faye - a student at Springdale Elementary School - was last seen wearing a black shirt with neon colors, a flower print skirt and polka dot rain boots. The shirt had the word 'peace' written on it.   Snellgrove said Faye's mother, her mother's boyfriend and Faye's father had all been cooperating with the investigation.  Faye's grandmother, Ruth Collins, had been pleading to the public on social media for help with finding her granddaughter.  'I'm going crazy not knowing where she is,' Collins wrote in a Facebook post.  In a statement, the family told ABC News that 'Faye is a bubbly and happy little girl'. 'She's not the type of kid that will up and walk away... Faye pays attention to her surroundings. We just want to find Faye and bring her home.'  The child's mother has not made any public statements since Faye went missing earlier this week.  On Tuesday night, community members gathered at Trinity Baptist Church to pray for Faye's safe return.  Faye was lactose intolerant with a speech impediment from having a tethered tongue.  Tethered tongue, or ankyloglossia, is when a thick band of tissue tethers the bottom of the tongue to the tip of the floor of the mouth.   'When she walks into a room she brightens it up. Everyone loves Faye,' Snellgrove said. 'Faye loves dresses, fancy shoes, spending time with her family, cats and playing outside.'  Several public figures have spoken out about the Swetlik case. Vice President Mike Pence gave a speech to The Citadel, a military academy in South Carolina, according to Fox News. '[A]llow me to address an issue that I know is on the hearts of people all across South Carolina today,' the vice president said on Thursday.  'And as your vice president and as a father, let me say we were deeply saddened to receive word this afternoon that the remains of Faye Swetlik, a 6-year-old girl who went missing from her parents' front yard just three days ago, have been found.' Senator Lindsey Graham tweeted: 'Like all South Carolinians, I was heartbroken to hear the news about the death of Faye Swetlik. 'I pray for the family of this beautiful young girl as they deal with this horrific tragedy.'  
