{ By Luke Andrews For Mailonline   Published:  23:00, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8005989/Video-emerges-showing-car-wrong-road-outside-base-Harry-Dunn-19-hit.html }
Police have launched an investigation after another video emerged showing a car driving on the wrong side of the road outside the US air base where 19-year-old Harry Dunn was hit by US diplomat's wife Anne Sacoolas.  The shocking footage shows a red vehicle drive towards an oncoming car for at least two seconds before swinging across the road as the other vehicle sounds its horn outside RAF Croughton in Northamptonshire.  US diplomat's wife Anne Sacoolas, 42, fled the UK after Harry Dunn's death in August 2019, claiming diplomatic immunity, and has failed to return to face trial. Harry's parents Charlotte and Tim have campaigned for her extradition, but a request for her return by the UK government was denied by Washington last month. Footage that emerged on January 18 showed a blue BMW driving on the wrong side of the road outside the base. A police car was also hit by a car driving on the wrong side of the road in October.  The video, thought to have been filmed on Thursday, shows the car swing across the road after remaining in the path of oncoming vehicles. The driver sounds his horn and slows down while waiting for the red car to move. Both cars also had their headlights on as they drove through dusky conditions, increasing the risk of an accident if a car is on the wrong side of the road.  Dunn family spokesman Radd Seiger tweeted the video after it was brought to his attention and said: 'Yet another one! RAF Croughton - near miss at Harry Dunn crash site.' He also said the video suggests a 'further tragedy is inevitable'.  Northamptonshire Police said it is 'aware of footage shared on social media on Friday relating to a near-miss close to RAF Croughton' and 'a full investigation is being carried out and witnesses are sought'. It came after their chief constable Nick Adderley met the US air base's commander Colonel Bridget McNamara to discuss road safety on Thursday night.  A joint statement released after the meeting and said Ms McNamara 'provided a detailed brief of all the proactive measures that the base continues to do to help those living on the base adjust to UK driving standards'. Mr Adderley said after the meeting: 'It is clear that the case already had significant number of measures in place to ensure driver safety. This was encouraging to see.'  A blue BMW was filmed driving  on the wrong side of the road outside the RAF Croughton base on January 18. The concerning footage emerged as police revealed details of a police vehicle being struck by a car driving on the wrong side of the road in October.  After viewing the footage of a car on the wrong side of the road near the base in January, Dunn family spokesman Radd Seiger said: 'Seeing this footage has sent shivers down my spine and made me feel sick. No harm done on this occasion fortunately but that is not the point. 'I have been urging everyone in authority to take the matter seriously, not only in terms of safety and how we can improve it in relation to helping American drivers adjust to the different side of the road, but also ensuring that no one who breaks the law coming off the base is allowed to hop on the next plane home and evade justice as Anne Sacoolas did. 'Enough is enough. This near miss brings both issues sharply into focus and I now call on the UK Government to take immediate action to ensure the safety of their citizens living in and around these bases but also to make sure that never again will a so-called 'diplomat' be allowed to evade justice. 'It is Team Harry's position that no one on these bases has diplomatic immunity notwithstanding the assertions from both the UK and US governments.' Harry's mother Charlotte Charles and father Tim Dunn earlier said they had seen 'no evidence' of the Government reviewing its options after an extradition request for Anne Sacoolas was refused last month.  Ms Charles has questioned the leadership of the Prime Minister and a lack of action in bringing her son's alleged killer back to the UK. 'It is so important to my family that no-one suffers the way we have. I will not let Harry's death be in vain. 'I want his legacy to be that diplomats will stay and face the consequences of their crimes and not be allowed to run away, that we will get an ambulance to us when we need it and not when it's too late, and to ensure that road safety in and around bases is significantly improved both for the American personnel and local residents. 'You would have thought that these would be issues that were important to the Government, too, and they would take urgent steps to work with us and to sort things and reassure the people. But not a bit of it.'  
