cars
{ By Jemma Carr For Mailonline   Published:  15:02, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8004443/Costello-Lee-Child-honoured-Prince-Charles-Buckingham-Palace-investitures.html }
Singer Elvis Costello and Jack Reacher author Lee Child are among the stars honoured by Prince Charles at the Buckingham Palace investitures today.   Mr Costello was made an OBE for services to music after a five decades-long career which has seen him inducted into the Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame and ranked by Rolling Stone as among the 100 greatest artists of all time. Mr Costello described being honoured as a 'curious and gracious' experience, having initially been reluctant to accept the establishment endorsement.  He smiled as he told how he imagined his late father, who he described as a non-violent Irish republican, might have reacted.  Explaining that his father had sang at the palace more than 50 years ago at a Christmas staff ball, he said: 'I know my dad would've loved the idea of one of the family coming through the front door.' The 65-year-old, who was born Declan MacManus, said: 'Obviously it wouldn't be any secret that I never write any songs about "hooray for her majesty". But her resilience, you'd have to say that's unexpected. He added: 'I think it shows a degree of broad-mindedness to have me in here. 'The experience was very curious and gracious, I have to say.' He paid tribute to his mother for encouraging him to accept the award, but said ultimately it will not change him. 'It goes on the shelf with the other things (awards),' he said. 'You try to take them with a bit of grace. There was a time when I might have made more of a gesture, saying no. But it's easier to do that than to reason why you would say yes.' Crime writer Mr Child, whose real name is James 'Jim' Grant, has been made a CBE for services to literature. Mr Child first started writing the series in 1997 and since then, there have been 24 Reacher novels and more than a dozen short stories. He began writing the series after he lost his job aged 40 and he today laughed as he imagined that unemployed man telling himself now: 'Well, it worked, didn't it?' The author, who was honoured with a CBE for services to literature, is in the process of handing over control of the acclaimed series of books to his younger brother, and said fans can expect a 'revitalised Reacher'. He added: 'Happily my brother is very like me but a lot younger so the plan is that we should be able to continue into the future.' Mr Child, who had his literary action hero brought to life on the big screen by Tom Cruise, said the decision to step back was 'pretty hard' and felt like 'the end of an era', but said he is looking forward to having more time to read, typically getting through a book a day.  Also recognised was a climber who died shielding his wife from falling rocks. Andrew Foster's Queen's Gallantry Medal was collected by his widow Lucy. The couple had been walking in Yosemite National Park, California, in 2017 when they were caught in a 1,000 tonne rockfall. As boulders reportedly the size of cars fell, Mrs Foster lost her footing and her husband lay on top of her to protect her. Mr Foster's injuries proved fatal but his wife was rescued from the mountainside and made a full recovery. 
