cars
{ By Matilda Rudd For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  14:49, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7990043/Real-estate-guru-bought-20-houses-time-28-shares-best-properties-market.html }
A property mogul who bought his 20th investment properties at just 28 has shared the homes he believes would be good investments in several of Australia's capital cities - and they are all on the market right now.  At just 16, Eddie Dilleen was determined to overcome his humble beginnings growing up in housing commission in Mount Druitt, in Sydney's west, and break out of the cycle of poverty and welfare that surrounded him.    So he worked at McDonald's and KFC for two years, saving $200 a week for a $20,000 deposit, which he used to buy a $138,500 two-bedroom unit on the NSW Central Coast. He now works full-time as a property investor, with his 20 homes worth between $5.5 and $6 million and spread across NSW, Queensland and South Australia. So he's perfectly placed to advise the would-be investors of homes where best to make considerable gains on the market.  In NSW, he selected two properties in Sydney's west: A townhouse in Werrington, which is selling for between $400,000-$430,000, and a house in Jamisontown, near Penrith, which is on the market from between $280,000 and $300,000. In Victoria, he chose an apartment in Sunshine, in Melbourne's west, which is on the market for between $215,000 and $230,000, while in Queensland, he chose a townhouse in Brisbane's Springwood, which is in the city's south and on the market for $235,000, as well as a house in Redbank Plains, in the city's west, which is on sale for $289,000.  In South Australia, he selected a unit in the relatively well-to-do Adelaide suburb of Glenelg East, which is selling for between $255,000 and $275,000. 'They're all within metro areas, meaning they are within 30 to 40 minutes of the capital city, and are really cheap,' he said. 'They will give a good rental return because they sit in a metro market. And over the next 15 to 20 years the price will rise with inflation alone. 'For example, the $235,000 townhouse in Springwood, Queensland, would be easy to save up a five per cent deposit for because it's an achievable $11,750.' The Springwood two-bedroom home is a 22 minute drive from Brisbane's CBD and has one bathroom and a car space, making it the perfect place to rent out to a young family. Houses in Springwood rent for $430 per week with an annual rental yield of 4.4 per cent - and have a compound growth rate - or an increase in value over time - of 2.9 per cent over the last five years.  The home is 350m away from Springwood train station and for those who enjoy the outdoors, there are nine parks within a 600m radius.  Meanwhile the four-bedroom Redbank Plains property in Queensland has 'vendor says sell' emblazoned on the ad, meaning the owner is looking to sell quickly - irrespective of the current market value. Mr Dilleen pointed out that he would never buy a property unless it was below market value, which is why he chose this one-bathroom and one car space renovated block. He also said the $400,000 Werrington option in Sydney could be rented out for more than $400 a week, meaning it would be easier to pay off the mortgage.  This complex sits on land zoned R4 high density - which means it can potentially be knocked over and redeveloped into units - so will deliver above-average capital growth.  The lot exceeds both size and frontage requirements for multi-storey units. The Jamisontown two-bedroom house for sale for $280,000 is close to Penrith's main town centre and it's a little over a 40 minute drive to get into Sydney. It's also cheap enough to put down a $14,000 deposit with just five per cent, making it viable for millennials worried about their potential market options.  In Sunshine, in Melbourne's west, the one-bedroom apartment is perfect for a couple looking to live close to the city without being edged out by soaring CBD prices. It sits a mere 33 minute drive away from the main shopping and eating districts of the southern state and is an affordable option.  1.  3/30-32 Albert Street, Werrington, NSW 2747 The $400,000 townhouse in Werrington can be rented out for $400 a week, making it easy to pay off the mortgage as an investor.  The land zoning will also give it above average capital growth over time because you can turn it into units or multiple dwellings. 2.  2/13 Preston Street, Jamisontown, NSW 2750 The two-bedroom house selling for $280,000 is close to Penrith's main town centre and takes just 40 minutes to get into Sydney by train. It's also cheap enough to put down a $14,000 deposit with just five per cent, making it viable for millennials worried about their potential market options.  3.  12/437 Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Vic 3020 The one-bedroom apartment is perfect for a couple looking to live close to the city without being edged out by soaring CBD prices. It sits a mere 33 minute drive away from the main shopping and eating districts of the southern state and is an affordable option.  4. 70/15 Magellan Road, Springwood, Qld 4127   Houses in Springwood rent out for $430/week with an annual rental yield of 4.4 per cent and have seen a compound growth rate of 2.9 per cent over the last five years. 5. 5 Figtree Lane, Redbank Plains, Qld 4301 Meanwhile the four-bedroom Redbank Plains property in Queensland has 'vendor says sell' emblazoned on the ad, meaning the owner is looking to sell quickly - irrespective of the current market value. 6.  5/29 Cliff Street, Glenelg East, SA 5045  The Glenelg East unit gets additional points for being close to the beach, but still offering a price guide of $255,000 for two bedrooms. It's just 21 minutes away from Adelaide's city centre and en-route to the major wine region of McLaren Vale. The Glenelg East unit gets additional points for being close to the beach, but still offering a price guide of $255,000 for two bedrooms. It's just 21 minutes away from Adelaide's city centre and en-route to the major wine region of McLaren Vale.  Speaking of his living condition as a teenager in Sydney's west, Mr Dilleen said a lot of people didn't have jobs and he didn't know what university was until he left school.   'I knew I didn't want this to be my future. So I started reading investment magazines and books like "Rich Dad, Poor Dad" by Robert Kiyosaki to learn about the property market.' After securing his first buy at 18 Mr Dilleen took almost two years off to just 'do what young kids do'.  He returned to the market by purchasing a number of units in southeast Queensland between $100,000 and $200,000. He also has properties in Adelaide and more expensive ones in NSW. Mr Dilleen saved for eight genuine deposits by working at a paint shop in Penrith, an IT admin role and as a bartender, before using equity from those properties to secure the latter 12 houses. The highest salary he had at any one time was $95,000 but with careful research he was always able to get a bank loan. Mr Dilleen has never been to university. 'It all comes down to the information you learn. People think you need a 20 per cent deposit to purchase, rather than a five per cent one,' he said. 'If I was starting again I'd get a five per cent deposit... people are worried about Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI) which is calculated off the purchase property price. 'So say you're buying a $1million property in Sydney and $50,000 is the five per cent deposit. The Lender's Mortgage Insurance might come to an extra $20,000. 'If you try to avoid spending an extra $20,000 and instead opt for a 20 per cent deposit (which is $200,000) it's going to take you years to reach, and if the market went up by 10 per cent during that time you would be spending more anyway.' Mr Dilleen, who now lives with his wife Francesca in Parramatta, Sydney, said it's possible to rent and buy an investment property at the same time, but it does require some sacrifices. 'I didn't travel to Europe until I was 26 or buy designer clothes or fancy cars at the same age my friends were,' he said. 'I gave that up at the time because I knew in the future I would be able to do that.' And the future is here, with the property magnet purchasing his dream car recently - a 1969 mustang - after settling on his 20th home. Admitting he probably won't stop until he has '100 properties', Mr Dilleen has shared tips for those wanting to follow in his footsteps.   'Read property investment books. Read anything from people who have done it before, rather than just people who claim to be experts'. The hardworking husband can't stand the 'very basic play it safe' methods outlined by some money-saving gurus, like the Barefoot Investor.   'It's the total opposite of what I've done and what has worked best for me. He usually recommends people save up money to reduce debt and buy a home to live in and be super conservative. 'I disagree as 90 per cent of the world's millionaires have become wealthy through owning investment properties and investing in real estate, not saving their way to retirement. 'No one can save their way to financial freedom. They must invest and leverage their capital to catch compound growth, rental income and tax deductions.' Scott Pape, the former stockbroker behind the Barefoot phenomenon, argues that Australians should save for 20 months to buy their family home, preferably in a regional area with public transport into the city. Mr Dilleen instead vouches for buying investments in metro areas - even if it's not in NSW - because you'll get a good return on the market as a result of natural inflation. 'I also don't see how people haven't asked the question "who is this guy to be giving advice anyway?" What has he done besides writing a book?' Mr Dilleen said. 'Ninety per cent of financial advisers out there don't know anything about money, they only have book experience and not actual real life experience. 'I personally didn't start giving people advice or talking about property investment until I actually had done it myself. Most of these other people out there don't even have the real experience and are just talking out of there a**.'  1. Read property investment books. Read anything from people who have done it before. 2. Take the emotion out of it. Don't invest where you know or where you live. I've been buying a lot in Brisbane and on the Gold Coast because it's extremely affordable and the rents are high. 3. Every single property I buy is below market value. Find someone who needs to sell their property quickly and aren't as bothered by getting the 'best price'. Once the owner had a month to sell the property so their priority was just to get out. 4.  Ensure it has a high rental return and calculate the yield.  5. Stick to metro areas within half an hour of the city. People can't afford in Sydney but don't buy in Wagga Wagga or Dubbo. I would never buy regional because you won't get the same return for your money.   Despite being told by family and friends that what he is doing is 'unrealistic' and 'impossible' Mr Dilleen continues to prove his naysayers wrong. 'People say it's impossible but then that same person would go out and buy a brand new car,' he said. 'I'm all for doing what makes you happy but if you're spending money on things that will be worth nothing in a few years... you can't criticise.' Eddie created a free and easily downloadable book called 10 properties by 25 which is available on his personal website eddiedilleenproperty.com.au. You can also find him on Instagram here.  
