cars
{ By Tom Place For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  09:26, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8003375/Resident-furious-lazy-Sutherland-Shire-Council-rolled-curbs-installed.html }
A furious resident has lashed out at a council for cutting into a footpath to fix overcrowding issues on a narrow street. Kathy Rikkerink shared an image on Thursday that showed a blue line painted down the footpath of a street in Caringbah South, in Sydney's south. Other cars could be seen parked with two wheels on the footpath leaving little room for pedestrians to get by.  Ms Rikkerink accused the Sutherland Shire Council of over-developing the area and said it was a 'pathetic cheap fix'. 'At the same time they are depriving rate payers of quality living,' the resident said. 'Have a look at this, over crowding so streets become too narrow for all the cars.'    The lined footpaths are marked for what the council refers to as 'rolled curbs' that are specifically designed to allow cars to park easily.   'Where there is a street with rolled kerbs, vehicles should park parallel to the kerb with 2 wheels on the nature strip and two wheels on the road,' the council's website reads. 'When parking bays have been provided on the nature strip, forming part for the rolled kerb, vehicles must only park in these bays with two wheels on the parking bay and two wheels on the road so that other vehicles can still negotiate the road.' Residents slammed the council for implementing more of the rolled curb paths and said it was a sign of poor area planning. 'How is a wheelchair supposed to get down that path?' A woman said. 'Over development in the Shire is disgusting. Anything for a buck,' one man said. Others said it was classic example of 'first world problems' and residents should be more sympathetic.     'Honestly, people need places to live. The constant complaining about over development in the Shire of all places is just getting really old,' a man said.  'That's an old street. What do you expect them to do suddenly make it wider? Stretch it or something?' Another added.    Daily Mail Australia has contacted the Sutherland Shire Council for comment. 
