{ By Baz Bamigboye for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:48, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8002473/BAZ-BAMIGBOYE-Jennifer-Lawrence-joins-New-York-Mafia-new-movie-role-female-mobster.html }
Jennifer Lawrence has been devouring all the information she can find about mobster life in postwar New York during the Fifties, Sixties and Seventies. The Oscar-winning actress is preparing to portray Arlyne Brickman, a minor Mafia player, in Mob Girl, which is based on Teresa Carpenter’s bestseller subtitled A Woman’s Life In The Underworld. ‘Arlyne was a Jewish racketeer’s daughter who had a taste for Italian men,’ said Paolo Sorrentino, who will shoot the film in and around New York later this year. He explained how Brickman, who much to her mother’s horror began entertaining men in the back seat of cars when she was 12, learned many secrets over the years.  ‘She didn’t know how to be herself,’ Sorrentino told me over cocktails at an Oscar party in the Polo Lounge at the Beverly Hills Hotel, hosted by Charles Finch and Chanel. Sorrentino noted that Brickman modelled herself on Virginia Hill, Bugsy Siegel’s flame-haired girlfriend. (Annette Bening played Hill in Warren Beatty’s 1991 film Bugsy.) But in the late-Sixties and Seventies, Brickman turned FBI informant. The director has been beefing up the screenplay amid discussions with Lawrence. Next year he will return to the Arenella district of Naples, where he was born, to shoot a picture for Netflix based on his own adolescence.  It will tell how, after his parents were killed in a car accident, he was befriended by a local filmmaker. ‘He wasn’t a famous man but he helped me a lot,’ Sorrentino said.  ‘First I need to find an actor of 17 or 18 to play me!’ Soon the whole world’s going to be chatting about Everybody’s Talking About Jamie. The feature film version, starring Max Harwood as the teen who wants to be accepted as a drag queen, has had secret test screenings in London and Los Angeles. Director Jonathan Butterell told me at New York’s Crosby Street Hotel, where he and composer Dan Gillespie Sells had been having meetings with Disney executives, that the prints shown were unfinished. ‘We’re still editing and shaping,’ he said of the big-screen Jamie, which also stars Richard E. Grant, Sarah Lancashire and Sharon Horgan. It’s set to open on October 23 in the U.K. and U.S. — smack in the middle of the next movie awards season. Meanwhile Nica Burns, producer of the stage version, told me that Katy Brand will join the show at the Apollo, Shaftesbury Avenue, playing teacher Miss Hedge from March 3 through June 20. Rufus Hound will take on the role of Hugo, who transforms into Loco Chanelle, from March 16 until May 30. In the film, Grant (who also plays Hugo/Loco) will sing a new number — as this column reported last year — written by Gillespie Sells and Tom MacRae. One of the great joys of watching Ivo van Hove’s fresh, youthful, exhilarating production of the golden-age musical West Side Story is studying the audience: the young people seeing it for the first time and utterly transfixed by it. I saw an early preview at New York’s Broadway Theatre last month and was bowled over, despite the fact that several of the leads were off with busted ankles, knees and arms. On Wednesday I got to see Isaac Powell’s Tony for the first time. Although I’ve heard the number Maria more times than I care to remember, listening to Powell’s handling of the song was like hearing it anew. This guy has just met a girl named Maria and he’s so knocked out by her that the name will never sound the same again. And what a Maria! As played by Shereen Pimentel, who is new to me, she’s like a lioness one minute; tender as a cub in love the next. Her voice reaches high registers with effortless ease. In fact, the singing throughout is sublime. Van Hove’s stage is bare but for panels at the back that reveal Doc’s drugstore, Maria’s bedroom, a sweatshop and a gym. Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker’s exuberant choreography employs the entire space and is relayed by video on the enormous back screen, rendering it even more potent. Initially, I thought the show reflected divisions here in America. But seeing it again, I realise it’s about what divides all of us. On the way out I heard a rabbi observe that ‘only love can bring us all together’, and I thought, yep — with a little help from Arthur Laurents, Leonard Bernstein, Stephen Sondheim and Jerome Robbins, the giants who created this work of art in 1957. Love, music and dance is the way to go, daddy-o. Cynthia Erivo was assigned her own reserved table at the Governors Ball that followed the Academy Awards ceremony where, a few hours earlier, she’d stopped the show with her performance of the Oscar-nominated song Stand Up, from the film Harriet. Cynthia sat with her mother Edith and sister Stephanie, who had been her dates for the night. Orbiting her were her agents, managers, various studio executives and other stars. Erivo was nominated for two awards but came away empty-handed. Yet she radiated the confident aura of a winner. She told me about a new film she will shoot called Carrier. She said: ‘It’s based on a podcast I did. For the film, I’ll play a truck driver and it just so happens that she’s carrying something in the back of her truck.Can’t tell you what it is, because it’s a thriller.’ She’s also in discussions about filming a second season of the HBO drama The Outsider in which she plays Stephen King’s creation Holly Gibney, a private detective with expertise in dealing with the paranormal. Plus there are numerous other projects in the pipeline for her. Last month she did three concerts — in front of 15,000 people — in Tokyo. Now she has her eye on playing the Royal Albert Hall. ‘I’d love to be invited to sing at the Proms, or to do something there,’ she told me. Before she can do any of those things, though, she has to finish filming Genius: a television show in which she portrays Aretha Franklin. The Korean fried chicken at the afterparty at Soho House in West Hollywood for Bong Joon-ho’s best picture winner Parasite was finger lickin’ good — even at 2am.  Kudos to Sam Mendes, director of the great film 1917, for telling me he saw Parasite twice and hailed it as a ‘masterpiece’. Julian Fellowes, who has written a plot outline for a second feature-film version of Downton Abbey. This page noted months ago that another movie was a possibility. Now, I hear it’s to be a reality. Rumour has it the story line will start pre-World War II. Executives at Carnival Films, Universal and Focus Features are looking into the availability of cast members such as Michelle Dockery, Laura Carmichael, Hugh Bonneville, Jim Carter, Penelope Wilton, Elizabeth McGovern, Joanne Froggatt and many others.  It is likely the production won’t be ready to shoot for at least a year. Jacqueline Bisset, who told me she was off to Hungary to shoot a film called Bird Of Paradise. In it, she will play a ballet mistress.  ‘Quite a tough one, who takes no nonsense,’ she said. The actress, right, who starred in Bullitt and Day For Night, among others, mentioned to me that she watched 70 films over Christmas in order to vote for the Oscars. She called on the studios to spread the load through the year. ‘I take it seriously, and watch the films,’ she said, ‘but there are ones that the studios could show us in June and July.’ 
