cars
{ By Frances Mulraney For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  23:54, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8002063/White-man-killed-unarmed-black-man-parking-lot-dispute-attacked-prison.html }
A white man who was  found guilty of manslaughter in the shooting death of an unarmed black man during a parking lot dispute in 2018 was attacked in prison Tuesday.   He suffered a head injury after being hit with a sock holding a metal lock and has been separated from fellow prisoners as officials decide whether to transfer him to protective custody, his lawyer said. Michael Drejka, 49, is serving 20 years at the Lancaster Correctional Institution in north Florida after fatally shooting unarmed 28-year-old Markeis McGlockton in front of his family in a dispute over a disabled parking space in July 2018. The case stoked racial tensions as Drejka, who is white, invoked Florida's controversial Stand Your Ground law in the killing of McGlockton, who was backing away.  SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO  On Tuesday shortly after 12.30pm, Drejka was reportedly hit over the head with the metal object by a fellow inmate sustaining a head injury that required five stitches, defense attorney Bryant Camareno told The Associated Press.  Drejka's wife told his attorneys about the injuries and that he is now living in fear.  Camareno said his client had the impression that he was targeted by someone. 'No one deserves to be treated like that,' Camareno told Fox 13 News.  'The Constitution demands that inmates be protected and so we're not necessarily pointing the fingers at anyone just yet. But it's very important that all inmates, regardless of what they've been convicted of, be protected. They're afforded that right: freedom from cruel and unusual punishment.'  The Florida Department of Corrections released a brief description of the incident on Wednesday in which they confirmed that Drejka was examined by medical staff and the incident is being investigated. 'At this time, Drejka is in administrative confinement separate from the general population, pending protective management review,' the statement said, adding that 'the situation was brought under control by institution security staff'. The other inmate involved in the attack has not been identified and the department revealed no information about Drejka's injuries saying they were protected by law.  It is not clear if there was more than one inmate involved in the attack or whether there is any video of the incident.   Defense attorney John Trevena told the Tampa Bay Times that the department and its statement were 'laughable' and claiming they are 'incredibly inept at protecting inmates'.  'There are frequent attacks and beatings resulting in inmate injury and sometimes death,' he said.  'Sometimes the correctional officers are complicit in these attacks.'  Drejka was convicted in August 2019 for the July 19, 2018, shooting that killed Markeis McGlockton. He was given a 20-year sentence in October 2020. Drejka had confronted McGlockton's girlfriend, Britany Jacobs, for parking in a handicapped space while McGlockton went inside a convenience store with his five-year-old son.  Security video recorded McGlockton leaving the store and shoving Drejka to the ground. Seconds later, Drejka pulled out a handgun and shot McGlockton as he backed away.  McGlockton ran inside the store, where he collapsed and died in front of his son. The video was played multiple times for the jury of five men and a woman before they reached the verdict. Drejka didn't testify at the trial, but a video of his interview with detectives was shown in court. He told investigators he has a 'pet peeve' about illegal parking in handicapped spots and often walks around such cars looking for handicapped stickers and placards, sometimes taking photographs.  He said he often sees people illegally parked in the handicapped spot at that convenience store, but the owner doesn't do anything about it. Drejka said he saw McGlockton's car in the handicapped spot that day, so he went to its back and front, looking for stickers, which store security video shows. He said the car's windows were tinted, so he didn't know anyone was inside. Jacobs, who was sitting with the couple's two younger children, partially put down her window and asked what he was doing. He said he told her it was 'not very polite' to park in the spot and 'she took that as an affront'.  He said that sparked an argument that got heated, with Jacobs saying 'Do I have to get my man?' Jacobs testified that Drejka had started pointing and yelling at her. She said she cracked the window to hear what he was saying and a screaming match ensued. Security video captured McGlockton leaving the store and shoving Drejka to the ground.  Seconds later, Drejka pulled out a handgun and shot McGlockton as he backed away. During the trial, Drejka's attorney argued that he thought he was in danger when he was pushed to the ground by McGlockton.  But prosecutors said surveillance footage of the incident proved that Drejka fired without assessing the risks.  They pointed out that McGlockton could be seen backing away when he saw Drejka's gun.  Drejka had tried to use Florida's 'stand your ground' law in his defense but in October, Judge Joseph Bulone called Drejka a 'wanna-be' police officer and a self-appointed 'handicapped parking space monitor' before handing over a 20-year sentence.    The judge said he found it most ironic that Drejka drove up, illegally parked next to Jacobs' car and then confronted her about parking illegally in a handicapped space. 'He just seems to come out of nowhere, kind of like a superhero, to see that he enforces the handicapped parking spot,' Bulone said.    
