{ By Karen Ruiz For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  21:45, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8001585/Gold-Coast-residents-urged-higher-ground-torrential-downpour-battered-QLD.html }
Parts of Australia's east could see more heavy rainfall and flooding this weekend - while northern regions are set to sweat in dry and scorching hot temperatures.     Northern NSW and southern Queensland have experienced the 'wettest week in decades', according to meteorologists. The Gold Coast recorded its highest ever monthly rainfall total with about 566mm falling in the first two weeks of the month. The previous monthly record was in December 2010 with 490mm.  NSW received a record-setting rainfall earlier on in the week, with up to 550mm falling across parts of the northern rivers, mid-north coast, Central Coast, Sydney, Blue Mountains and the Illawarra.  Major flood warnings remains in place for the Logan River, just north of the Gold Coast, and catchments throughout the state. Much of NSW will remain dry on Friday, with wet weather expected to creep over the weekend.  However, widespread heavy falls across the state's southeast corner are expected to ease on Friday, forecasters predict. Falls of up to 5-15mm are expected over the weekend, the Bureau of Meteorology says. Meanwhile, severe to extreme heatwave conditions are playing out almost everywhere north of Longreach to the northern peninsula area. Those most extreme conditions are being felt between Cairns and Townsville, and northwest of Mt Isa. Showers and thunderstorms are forecast across the far north and Cape York from early next week, with showers returning to much of the state from Sunday. A hazardous swell will continue into Friday, but ease over the weekend as ex-Tropical Cyclone Uesi tracks south. Gold Coast beaches will remain closed. On Thursday, Gold Coast residents were urged to move to higher ground as a torrential downpour swept away cars and flooded roads.    Footage posted on social media showed ferocious rapids running down the road at Tamborine Mountain, with a wall of water inundating shops. Meanwhile, a search is ongoing for missing woman Yang Chen, 26, who disappeared in the Gold Coast hinterland while walking with a man near Gorge Falls in the Tallebudgera Valley. Authorities hold concern as many creeks are still overflowing after the torrential downpours over the past week. Her disappearance comes as a nine-year-old boy had to be rescued after he was sucked down a drain in the city on Wednesday.   The body of a man who had been kayaking on the Mary River on the Sunshine Coast was also discovered earlier this week.  An evacuation centre was established after flood warnings were issued for the Coomera River, affecting Oxenford, Hope Island, and Helensvale residents.  Floodwaters will take some time to drain away however falls are expected to top 5-15mm over the weekend, the Bureau of Meteorology says. Warnings for coastal catchments between Bundaberg and the NSW border are in place. This includes a major flood warning for the Condamine River, downstream of Warwick in southern Queensland, and the Coomera River. A major flood warning in place for the Logan River at Beaudesert, along with a mild warning for the Albert River on Thursday will continue into Friday. Widespread heavy falls across the state's southeast corner will begin to drop off on Friday, particularly on the Gold Coast, forecasters predict.  In the north, severe to extreme heatwave conditions are playing out almost everywhere north of Longreach, apart from the northern peninsular area. Those more extreme conditions are being felt between Cairns and Townsville, and northwest of Mt Isa. Showers and thunderstorms are forecast across the far north and Cape York from early next week, with showers returning to much of the state from Sunday. Hazardous swell that has lured some of Australia's top surfers to the Gold Coast will continue into Friday but east over the weekend as ex-Tropical Cyclone Uesi tracks due east of the Queensland-NSW border.  Uesi continues to stir up wild weather including hazardous surf and swell conditions off the NSW coast, particularly around Byron Bay, Coffs Harbour, Port Macquarie and the Hunter coast. Flood warnings remain in place for rivers on the NSW coast as a low pressure trough moves further south in the wake of Uesi. The affected areas include the Tweed, Wilsons, Brunswick, Marshalls, Wooli, Bellinger, Upper Nepean, Tuggerah Lake, Orara River, Weir River and Paroo River. Sydney is facing more wet weather over the weekend after last week's deluge, with rain showers and thunderstorms expected on Saturday and Sunday afternoons, particularly over western Sydney. Rain is also forecast for much of the NSW coast on Friday with major falls expected in Sydney, the Northern Tablelands, Mid-North Coast, Hunter and South Coast. High rainfall in the past week - the worst in about 20 years - has caused havoc with flash flooding and storm damage to the Greater Sydney and coastal regions. Thousands of Sydney siders are still suffering from power blackouts sparked by last weekend's torrential rains. Some 15,000 homes and businesses are without power across Sydney and the Central Coast, including three schools in Arcadia, Peakhurst and Somersby and power providers have warned repair works aren't likely to be completed until the end of Sunday. 'In the hardest-hit areas, the network is being rebuilt from the ground up on a street-by-street basis,' Ausgrid said. But the rain has also brought much-needed relief for firefighters and the NSW Rural Fire Service on Thursday was finally able to say there were no uncontained fires for the first time this season. 'All fires are contained so we can really focus on helping people rebuild,' NSW RFS deputy commissioner Rob Rogers said in a video posted on Twitter. There are currently 24 fires burning in NSW, all south of Sydney.   
