{ By Associated Press   Published:  17:13, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8001047/Trump-expected-attend-Daytona-500-race-Sunday-Florida.html }
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) - President Donald Trump will give the command for drivers to start their engines before the Daytona 500. Daytona International Speedway officials named Trump the grand marshal for NASCAR's season opener, meaning he will deliver the most famous four words in auto racing. "Gentleman, start your engines," has been a staple of races around the country and world for decades. White House spokesman Judd Deere said Thursday the president plans to attend the race. Track president Chip Wile confirmed the news in a release. "Daytona International Speedway has been privileged to have hosted several sitting presidents of the United States over our history," Wile said. "We´re honored that the president of the United States has chosen to experience the pageantry and excitement of `The Great American Race.'" Trump is the third sitting president to attend a race at Daytona, but only the second to attend the Daytona 500. George W. Bush attended in 2004. Trump is the first to be given an honorary role in pre-race ceremonies. Trump is scheduled to spend part of the Presidents Day weekend at his private club in Palm Beach, Florida. President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with Ecuadorian President Lenin Moreno in the Oval Office of the White House, Wednesday, Feb. 12, 2020, in Washington. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) The Federal Aviation Administration issued a flight restriction for Sunday and the U.S. Secret Service, which is responsible for presidential security, also tweeted to fans that drones are prohibited within 30 miles of the race in Daytona Beach - a restriction put in place for presidential visits. Trump has hosted previous NASCAR champions at the White House and last October awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to motorsports titan Roger Penske. Last year, Trump also praised retired driver Mario Andretti, the Daytona 500 winner in 1967, reminiscing about a ride Andretti gave him in a race car for his reality show "The Apprentice." "I said, 'Mario, get me out of here. I want to get out of this car,'" Trump recalled. "We went so fast. We literally -- we covered four blocks in like a second." President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with Ecuadorian President Lenin Moreno in the Oval Office of the White House, Wednesday, Feb. 12, 2020, in Washington. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) FILE - In this Feb. 17, 1990, file photo, race cars crash during the Goody's 300 auto race in Daytona Beach, Fla. (AP Photo/David Graham, File) FILE - In this Feb. 11, 1999, file photo, drivers in the first 125-mile Daytona 500 qualifying race start the race at Daytona International Speedway in Daytona Beach, Fla. Daytona Beach became the unofficial "Birthplace of Speed" in 1903 when two men argued over who had the fastest horseless carriage and decided things in a race on the white, hard packed sand along the Atlantic Ocean.(AP Photo/Chris O'Meara, File) 
