cars
{ By Reuters and Adry Torres For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:33, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8038265/Chile-braces-March-protests-Pinera-appeals-peace.html }
Dozens of masked protesters marred the opening night of Chile's storied Viña del Mar Festival on Sunday, as clashes left at least 29 cops injured and several stores and vehicles burned. Chilean police arrested at least 24 people who participated in the latest outbreak of protests over economic inequality in the Andean nation. According to Chilean newspaper Las Ultimas Noticias, as early as last week, activists took to social media to announce demonstrations at Plaza Sucre, the Quinta Vergara Amphitheater and O'Higgins Hotel. Bothered by the celebration of the 61st Viña del Mar Festival as the Chilean people grapple with the social crisis that has engulfed the country, demonstrators failed to break into the music festival's grounds but proceeded to attack the hotel, where many of the festival's artists will be staying at this week. The assault on the hotel forced the staff to evacuate the building, causing delays to the start of the festival's opening act.  Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin, who was slated to close the opening night instead opened up because Chilean hip hop band Tiro de Gracia and singer Jordan were stuck at the hotel. Martin, who participated in a wave of protests last year that forced the resignation of the United States territory's governor, Ricardo Rosselló, asked the Chilean people to deliver their message in a peaceful fashion. 'It's important to let the leaders of our countries know what we need, provided we do so in an orderly manner,' Martin said. Protesters caused significant damage to a local bank municipal building, car dealerships and several telecommunication centers. The South American government has faced a wave of protests dating back to October when a subway system fare hike in the capital city of Santiago was brought forward.  The protest saw metro stations burned, shops looted and set on fire, and drew a fierce response from police.  Demonstrations quickly spread throughout the country as residents and activists denounced further cuts to pension, salaries and health services.  At least 31 people died, thousands were injured - including hundreds of protesters blinded by rubber bullets - and thousands arrested. President Sebastián Piñera called on Chileans on Monday to help the country 'live in peace' ahead of an anticipated fresh outbreak of protests in March. Piñera said stability was needed to allow for an effective public vote on a new constitution in April and to be able to push through reforms to pension, salaries and health services. 'What the country urgently needs is a great national agreement against violence and in defense of democracy,' Piñera told journalists after a cabinet meeting at the Moneda presidential palace. March is traditionally a month that brings protests in Chile as people return from the Southern Hemisphere summer holiday and mark the anniversaries of victims of the 1973-1990 military dictatorship, and international women's day. The results of educational government loan and grant applications can also spark unrest. Protests have been muted in the capital in the new year but resumed with intensity in regional cities, including Valparaiso and Antofagasta. On Friday, the Santiago square which was the focal point of last year's protests saw another large demonstration. A poll by Cadem published last week showed that 56 per cent of respondents supported the continuation of protests, compared to 72 per cent in October. Thirteen per cent said they approved of Piñera's leadership, compared to 9 per cent at the start of the month. Another Cadem poll showed that 85 per cent of business leaders felt Chile was moving in the 'wrong direction', and 99 per cent believed March would bring further polarization. Local media reports suggest businesses are investing heavily in security guards and iron gates to protect their premises. 'Public discontent remains considerable despite the government´s announcements of higher public spending and the process to rewrite the constitution, while distrust of the political class is widespread,' analysts Eurasia Group said.   
