cars
{ By Olivia Wheeler For Mailonline   Published:  14:32, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8038219/Christine-McGuinness-no-one-talk-daughter-Felicity-3-diagnosed-autism.html }
Christine McGuinness has emotionally revealed she has no one to talk to after she discovered that her youngest daughter, Felicity, three, has autism three years after her twins, six, were diagnosed. In a candid new interview, the RHOC star, 31, also spoke about her marriage to presenter Paddy, 46, and how there's 'no time' for them as a couple. Christine admitted that her 'heart breaks for all her children' but that Felicity and twins - Penelope and Leo, inspire her every day. The model also revealed that Paddy found Felicity's autism hard after he previously admitted that he is 'never happy in himself' since their twins were diagnosed.  Speaking to OK! Magazine, Christine said it was 'heartbreaking' but clarified that it didn't mean Paddy wasn't happy with her or the children.  She explained: 'There's no time for us as a couple, no quality time, no date nights. Not even time to have a laugh together. We're full-time carers and the kids come before everything. But we have to stay strong as a unit for our kids.' Christine also revealed that she found husband Paddy's vasectomy over the summer 'heartbreaking' as they always wanted four children but agreed that their family was 'too stretched' for another baby. The star added that Paddy has been seeing a therapist for a fear of flying and it has 'benefited him loads', although Christine 'doesn't have time' for therapy herself and has no one to talk to as she doesn't have anyone she can 'fully trust'.   She told the magazine: 'I admit I'm the worst when it comes to telling people when I'm struggling. I will never say if I've had a bad day and, to be honest, there's no one I feel I can speak to.' Christine continued to OK!: 'The day Felicity got diagnosed, Paddy and I had to take separate cars as he had to be somewhere and I cried all the way home. I felt I had no one I could call because opening up about it would just make me breakdown.' The star added that she tries to remain 'upbeat' and 'plasters a smile on her face', using gym as her escape as it's 'essential' for her mental health.  Christine's interview comes after she stopped by ITV's Loose Women last week to discuss her daughter Felicity, three, being diagnosed with autism.  Christine and Paddy's six-year-old twins, Penelope and Leo, were both diagnosed with autism in 2017, and she says her experience with their diagnosis helped her to spot signs of the condition in Felicity.  Christine revealed she recognised signs of autism in Felicity from as early on as six-months-old. 'The first time around with the twins, it was a shock, we were heartbroken. We didn't know anything about autism,' she explained to the panel. 'All we knew was that our children had a lifelong condition with no cure. Now, knowledge is power.' 'It's prepared us. We knew it was coming, we saw the signs so we were more prepared,' Christine revealed.  She added: 'It's a relief because [the children] can come across as being quite difficult or challenging children. When Felicity started school, I wanted her to have the diagnosis before, so they know.'  Christine also revealed how her relationship with Paddy has changed, because of their children, explaining: 'We don't get much time together. My husband is busy, he's filming Top Gear, he's flying all over the world.     'We've had one lunch together this year and I can't remember the last one. We see each other because we live together, but we don't do dates or quality time with each other. We just accept that's how it is. First and foremost, we are carers.'  
