cars
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  12:15, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-7999271/Elon-Musks-Tesla-turbulent-week-forced-recall-15-000-Model-X-SUVs.html }
A turbulent fortnight for electric car giant Tesla has continued after it announced a recall of thousands of its Model X SUV vehicles in North America over power steering problems. Transport Canada and America's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) say the SUV's aluminum bolts that attach the electric power steering gear assist motor to the gear housing may corrode and break causing a reduction or complete loss of power steering assist in some 2016 model year vehicles.  It is the second major recall to affect Tesla in the last two years, following the March 2018 recall of 123,000 Model S vehicles, which was also over matters regarding faulty steering problems.  No injuries or crashes have been associated with the Model X recall says the NHTSA, but Tesla admitted they 'observed excessive corrosion' on the aluminium bolts, which could potentially cause grave harm to passengers. Were these bolts to fail they say, the model would require 'more force to turn the steering wheel, especially during low speed parking maneouvres.'  Tesla says it will put a corrosion prevention sealer in all its affected models in case drivers later use them in cold weather environments.  The recall covers nearly 15,000 Model X vehicles built before mid-October 2016, with 14,193 in the United States and 843 vehicles in Canada.  A Tesla UK spokesman told This is Money that no UK customer cars would have been affected as the US firm had not started deliveries of right-hand-drive models to Britain until the end of December 2016.   It comes on the back of a difficult two weeks for the automotive giant, which has taken a major financial hit from the coronavirus outbreak in China. Last week, Tesla's share price rocketed on Monday and Tuesday from $650 at the start of the week to a record close of $887 the following day, a cumulative rise of 36 per cent. At one point, it almost hit $970 a share. On Wednesday though, the share price tumbled by 17 per cent after a company executive in China said the coronavirus would delay deliveries of its Model 3 brand. Then on Thursday, it announced it was temporarily closing its Chinese stores.  Car production at its Shanghai plant had also been shut down for an extended period before reopening on Monday. The share price briefly rose above $800 again before ending at around $770. Tesla also announced today that it is looking to provide a new China-made Model 3 variant, which would potentially have a longer range and be rear-wheel drive. On Monday, it was revealed that Apple engineer Walter Huang who died in a car crash in March 2018 had complained to friends about his Tesla Model X's Autopilot system malfunctioning.  Documents released by the NHTSA showed that his SUV car did not break or steer in the three seconds before it smashed into a concrete barrier.  But it also said Mr Huang was using his mobile phone when the car crashed and that his hands were not on the steering wheel.  The NHTSA is also investigating a crash that took place the next year in Delray Beach, Florida which killed Jeremy Banner. It has not yet ascertained what led to the crash. The share price in Tesla closed at $767.3 yesterday on the NASDAQ yesterday.   
