cars
{ By Valerie Edwards and Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com    Published:  11:23, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7999555/Investigators-hunt-two-cars-seen-missing-six-year-old-Faye-Swetliks-neighborhood.html }
South Carolina authorities said Thursday that they have towed two cars from the home of a missing six-year-old girl as they search dumpsters and trash cans for evidence.  Sgt Evan Antley with the Cayce Department of Public Safety confirmed that the vehicles were removed from the home but said he couldn’t share details of anything that 'may or may not have been found in those vehicles'. The sergeant also confirmed that Faye Mary Swetlik's home had been searched 'multiple times'.  Police have closed off the neighborhood where the girl lives to everyone except residents, their visitors and delivery trucks. An officer is also stationed outside of her residence.  When asked if Faye's case is a search mission or a recovery mission, Antley said: 'We are working to bring Faye home.' Antley said he couldn’t comment on specific suspects or any persons of interest.  Police expanded their search for Faye outside the Churchill Heights neighborhood where she lives.   Authorities said they are doing everything they can - searching trash cans and landfills, towing cars and even closing off a neighborhood to everyone except residents - as they look for Faye.  Hundreds of officers in Cayce, along with state police and FBI agents, are working around the clock to try to find the little girl.   Scroll down for video. Antley said the trash searches, towed cars and multiple searches of the girl's home are all to make sure no piece of evidence is left behind. 'In a case of this nature we are leaving no stone unturned,' Antley said. 'Whether we find that in the backyard of a residence in Churchill Heights. Whether we find that in a trash truck ... we just want to get it.' Police initially said they were hunting for two cars that were seen in the Churchill Heights neighborhood before Faye vanished after getting home from school on Monday. Faye was last seen playing in front of the Londonderry Lane home in Cayce, near Columbia, at approximately 3.45pm.  Her family reported her missing at 5pm, saying they had been searching for her. Cayce Department of Public Safety posted images of the cars, saying: 'The two vehicles shown were in the neighborhood during the time #FayeSwetlik was last seen.' Since that update, officials said they have identified the person driving the Chevrolet Trailblazer, but investigators are still seeking information about the silver vehicle.   Police did not say whether the person driving the Trailblazer lived in the Churchill Heights neighborhood.   Authorities also released footage of Faye getting off her school bus on Wednesday morning as they announced that the search for the girl had been expanded.  In the footage, Faye gets out of her seat, speaks to the bus driver and then exits the vehicle. According to a witness, this was at around 2.50pm Monday.    Authorities still say they are checking all possibilities, from the girl wandering away from home to being kidnapped or harmed by someone she knows.  Their latest lead is trying to determine who was driving a silver sedan seen in blurry home surveillance footage in the neighborhood. Faye - a student at Springdale Elementary School - was last seen wearing a black shirt with neon colors, a flower print skirt and polka dot rain boots. The shirt had the word 'peace' written on it.  Police have said that investigators have not found any evidence that Faye was abducted.  Cayce Department of Public Safety, Byron Snellgrove said Faye's mother, her mother's boyfriend and Faye's father are all cooperating with the investigation.    When asked if family members are being issued polygraph tests, Antley said he could not comment on that. For the past few days, Faye's grandmother, Ruth Collins, has been pleading to the public on social media for help with finding her granddaughter.  'I'm going crazy not knowing where she is,' Collins wrote in a Facebook post.  In a statement, the family told ABC News that 'Faye is a bubbly and happy little girl'. 'She's not the type of kid that will up and walk away... Faye pays attention to her surroundings. We just want to find Faye and bring her home.' On Tuesday night, community members gathered at Trinity Baptist Church to pray for Faye's safe return.  Through tears, Collins told ABC Columbia: 'I want my baby back. You got to find her.' Officials said the child is lactose intolerant with a speech impediment from having a tethered tongue.  Tethered tongue, or ankyloglossia, is when a thick band of tissue tethers the bottom of the tongue to the tip of the floor of the mouth.  Flyers with Faye's picture have sprouted up all over Cayce, a city of 14,000 neighboring the state capital of Columbia. 'When she walks into a room she brightens it up. Everyone loves Faye,' Snellgrove said.  'Faye loves dresses, fancy shoes, spending time with her family, cats and playing outside.' She is described as being 3'10" and 65lbs with strawberry blonde hair.  A special hotline has been created for anyone with information about the girl's whereabouts.   Cayce Dept of Public Safety asks anyone with information to call 803-205-4444. This is a dedicated hotline just for calls about #FayeSwetlik  
