{ By Sophie Law For Mailonline   Published:  11:34, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037487/Amazing-photographs-capture-endangered-Mistle-Thrush-feeds-four-chicks-traffic-light.html }
This is the fascinating moment an endangered bird feeds its chicks after making a nest in a city centre traffic light on a busy road. The rare Mistle Thrush made its home in the amber light in Leeds after its four babies hatched during Storm Dennis. Bird lover Paul Wheatley, 44, spotted the birds nesting in the unusual place and captured the mother tending to her young in the nest made from moss, sticks and leaves.   In the clip, the young chicks open their mouths in anticipation as both mother and father take it in turns to deliver grubs and worms. Mr Wheatley says they it's 'amazing' how they have adapted to urban life as the mother waits for traffic to stop at a red light before flying out the nest.  The wildlife enthusiast, who volunteers at the RSPB's local nature reserve, says the chicks are thought to be around six weeks early - but that the warmth of the amber traffic light is keeping them strong. No doubt they will remain undisturbed - and Mr Wheatley even joked they weren't 'badass' enough to have gone for the red light above.   He used a telescope attached to his iPhone to zoom in - and was managed to capture the footage by standing on the opposite side of the road.  He said: 'It's all done on my iPhone, which I attach to a telescope. It gives your iPhone 70 times the zoom. 'The birds, sit and watch and wait for the traffic to stop, because they'd get taken out by a bus. 'It's amazing how they've adapted to that urban environment. 'It seems to be a popular place for them to nest. It's a nice ledge and seems to keep the weather out and maybe it's warm too. 'There are constantly cars going past during the day.' Mistle Thrush - which a have black-spotted cream underbelly - are on the list of endangered British birds, with the number of mating pairs plummeting in recent years due to habitat destruction.  The bird gets its name from their love of Mistletoe and are known for a distinctive song - often singing through wet weather. The decline in Mistle Thrush numbers is thought to be caused by loss of thick hedgerows and wet ditches for the birds to nest in. Increased land drainage is also likely to have reduced the number of earthworms available to thrushes on farmland.   Grazed permanent pasture and woodland are important habitats with plenty of food for thrushes. Both of these have been lost or degraded in many lowland areas.   Some people suggest that increases in the numbers of magpies and sparrowhawks may be causing song thrushes and other songbirds to decline.   Source: RSPB   
