cars
{ By Emily Webber For Mailonline   Published:  09:48, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037371/Mans-body-bin-lorry-London-police-probe-unexplained-death.html }
A man's body has been found in the back of a Biffa bin lorry in south London this morning.   Officers were called to scene on Bethwin Road, Camberwell, at 5.35am after reports that a body had been found by bin men in a red Biffa lorry.   The man was pronounced dead at the scene and officers are treating the death as 'unexplained'.  Waste management company Biffa confirmed the body was found inside one of their lorries.   Neighbours were left fearful following the discovery of the body this morning.  Luke Jackson, 39, said: 'I'm shocked and stunned. 'Everywhere has its dodgy bits but I've always felt safe here, we are near the main road. You never expect anything like this around here.' Restaurant manager Ann Marie Parkeson, 43, said: 'When I walked past after going to get my plantain for breakfast I saw the rubbish truck and some police cars on the outside. 'It's a bit shocking, I've been here for a long time and we walk here at any time of night. 'This area is normally really safe. It's shocking for them to find someone there.'  The London Ambulance Service and London Fire Brigade were also called to the scene.  A spokesperson for Biffa said: 'We can confirm that a body was discovered in a Biffa vehicle early this morning in South London.  'We are working with the relevant authorities as they investigate the matter. We cannot comment any further at this stage.' A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: 'Police were called at approximately 5:35am on Monday, 24 February to reports of a man's body found in the rear of a bin lorry in Bethwin Road, SE5. 'Officers and London Ambulance Service attended. 'The man – no further details - was pronounced dead at the scene. 'At this stage, the death is being treated as unexplained. 'Enquiries into the circumstances continue.' More to follow.   
