{ By Brittany Chain For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  03:21, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036509/Building-collapses-Hurlstone-Park-Sydney-crushing-car-causing-traffic-chaos-no-injuries.html }
A two-storey building has suddenly collapsed on a major road in Sydney, causing traffic chaos for commuters. Emergency personnel, including multiple fire and rescue trucks, were called to New Canterbury Road in Hurlstone Park in Sydney's inner west about 11.45am on Monday. A spokesman for NSW Fire and Rescue said the incident was likely connected to construction going on behind the building. Photographs show at least two men in hi-vis vests working on scaffolding directly behind the collapsed building. Bricks and rubble littered the sidewalk and damaged parked cars which were in the vicinity. An Anata Awnings sign also fell from the second storey of the building, landing on top of another car below which was parked on the street. A spokeswoman for New South Wales Police told Daily Mail Australia nobody was injured in the incident.  'Everyone has been evacuated from the building  as well as a neighbouring building as a precaution,' she said. 'All workers at the site have been accounted for and no injuries have been reported.'   At least 15 emergency service employees are currently trying to sort through the rubble by moving one brick at a time.  MP for Canterbury Sophie Cotsis described the incident as a 'massive safety hazard.  'We have a couple hundred kids who walk down here in the afternoon - Canterbury Boys and Canterbury Girls, Trinity. There's a childcare next to the church. This area is very busy at this time,' she said.  Pictures of the aftermath show a silver Toyota Celica which was crushed during the chaos. The car had been parked in the driveway out the front of the building before it collapsed.  An advertising board displaying a bacon and egg breakfast landed directly on top of the car.  Two tradesmen were also pictured standing on scaffolding at a construction site directly behind the building.  Traffic diversions have been put in place in the area and commuters have been warned to find an alternative route.  According to the LiveTraffic app, Transport for NSW, the local council and a utility company have all also arrived on the scene.  
