{ By Joe Scek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:47, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036283/The-woman-Rebecca-Judd-adds-luxury-vehicle-collection.html }
She made headlines last year, when she complained her Range Rover was 'too big' for the garage of her $7.3million Melbourne mansion and she was forced to spend $50,000 on knocking out a column to make room for the vehicle.  And now Rebecca Judd, 36, has a new car - flaunting her brand new Range Rover - valued at a cool $125,000, on Instagram.  'Thank you for always looking after us Land Rover,' Rebecca, who is an ambassador for the luxury brand, captioned a photo of her posing with the car on Monday.  In the photo, Rebecca looked thrilled as she stood in front of her new wheels while cuddling one of her twin boys.  The statuesque brunette showed off her never-ending pins in a pair of bike shorts and a sweatshirt from her own Jaggad collection. The slender star picked up the keys to her new ride with her adorable three-year-old son Darcy in tow. The luxury car is the second vehicle Rebecca's been given to her by Land Rover in under six months, after she received the same model in white in September. At the time, Rebecca captioned an Instagram post of her and her twins, Tom and Darcy, posing with the car, alongside the caption: 'New week. New wheels!'  In June, Rebecca's made headlines when she complained that her Range Rover was too big to fit in the garage of her newly purchased $7.3million Melbourne Mansion. She said she 'couldn't even get the nose in' when she tried driving it into the garage, later describing the issue as 'a major snag.'  Rebecca told  KIIS 101.1's Jase and PJ she was forced to spend a staggering $50,000 to 'knock out a column' and widen the garage. She confessed live on air that she hadn't told her husband Chris how much it had really cost, and that he was most likely 'hearing this for the first time now.'  The former weather presenter justified the decision by saying 'it wouldn't be a dream home if the cars were on the street!'   Rebecca's car troubles didn't end there, with Chris crashing one of their cars into the garage wall, hours before the pair threw a Coachella-inspired housewarming party, dubbed 'Juddchella' in November. 'The morning before, Chris smashed one of our cars into the garage wall. It's the first bit of the house people walked into,' Rebecca told KIIS Melbourne FM at the time. Rebecca confessed that all 125 guests saw the damage because they were shuttled in and out of the party via the garage. (The house itself was locked because Rebecca didn't want 'drunk people wrecking it'.) Recently, Rebecca told co-hosts Katie 'Monty' Dimond and Yumi Stynes on her radio show 3PM Pick-Up that the damage still needed to be repaired. Yeah, we need to get it replastered,' she admitted. 
