cars
{ By Xantha Leatham For The Daily Mail   Published:  01:32, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036325/Gloria-Hunniford-Len-Goodman-UK-clean-campaign-joining-litter-picking-drive.html }
Two of Britain's best-loved television presenters have rolled up their sleeves, packed their litter pickers and hit the streets to join the Daily Mail's Great British Spring Clean campaign. Gloria Hunniford and Len Goodman have both been vocal in their backing of the movement to tidy up our nation. Miss Hunniford, who is best known for presenting Rip Off Britain and Loose Women, has been cleaning up the Kent countryside outside the town of Sevenoaks where she lives. Wielding a bin bag, litter picker and bright pink umbrella, she removed crisp packets, plastic bottles and takeaway packages from the side of a road. Despite being caught in the rain, she still managed to look chic as she made her way along the side of a littered road. The 79-year-old said: 'I am most certainly all for the Daily Mail campaign. It disgusts me when I see people throw litter. I would praise Sevenoaks as being a very clean town. But in the countryside, sometimes people are just not so careful. 'On the country roads today, we found cans, crisp packets and coffee cups.' She also spoke of a recent occasion when she confronted a group of boys who were throwing litter on the ground. 'We were filming in Bromley recently and I saw young lads just throw their hamburger and sandwich boxes on the ground,' she said. 'I hate to see that. 'I went up to them and said, 'Won't you put that in the bin' and the cameraman told me to watch what I said. 'I have also seen people throwing stuff out of cars. I think that is awful. I think a lot of it comes from parenting and what children are told to do. But a lot of young people do go out at weekends cleaning up the beaches and so forth and I admire that.' Her support for the campaign, which the Daily Mail is running in conjunction with Keep Britain Tidy, echoes that of professional ballroom dancer and TV presenter Len Goodman. Mr Goodman, former head judge of Strictly Come Dancing, encouraged people to take 'small steps' to help rid Britain of the scourge of rubbish left dumped across our towns, cities and countryside. The 75-year-old said: 'Improving the world comes in small steps. Let's make a start by picking up litter.' Their support for the campaign comes as the number of volunteers who have pledged to take part hits 312,680. An incredible 6,877 clean-up events have already been registered, less than a month after we put out the call to action. Other famous faces who have publicly backed the campaign include journalist and broadcaster John Sergeant, who last week said: 'Litter laziness hurts us all and I'm very proud to back the Daily Mail's campaign.' And Dame Esther Rantzen, who presented the BBC series That's Life! for 21 years, joined in. She believes that by working together, we can put an end to the sight of litter blighting our natural world. The 79-year-old said: 'There is nothing so important as caring for the beautiful, fragile world we live in. Sometimes the challenge seems too great for any individual to tackle, but at least we can all do our bit by picking up and recycling litter.'  She added: 'All it takes is a bag, a thick pair of gloves, a strong stomach and the joy of knowing we are making a real contribution to the glorious natural world.' Television presenter Matthew Wright invited us along as he carried out a litter pick near his home in Primrose Hill, north London. He said: 'The Daily Mail has shown it is committed, highlighting this issue week after week. That is what it takes.' Lord Sugar, Harry Redknapp and presenter Kirstie Allsopp have also endorsed the campaign. Last year we enlisted almost 600,000 people to take part in litter picks. This time around, we hope to increase the number – and see how close we can get to a million volunteers. Girlguiding UK provided an enormous boost for our numbers, pledging 100,000 members to take part in litter picks between March 20 and April 13. Local schools and councils are on board, while a range of banks, businesses and organisations have also promised to help in our mission to clean up Britain. 
