{ By Reuters   Published:  00:38, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-8036231/Logano-scorches-final-lap-win-Vegas.html }
Not having one of his cars in the championship field of four last November was just not acceptable for NASCAR Cup Series team owner Roger Penske. So, in the offseason he shook things up by changing around the crews of all three of his teams. In Sunday's Pennzoil 400 at Las Vegas Motor Speedway, Penske's moves looked genius as Penske driver Joey Logano pulled away from the field on the final lap to get the victory. The win was the second for Logano at the 1.5-mile Vegas oval with the other coming a year ago. He led 54 laps of the 267 laps. On his pit box was Paul Wolfe, who led Brad Keselowski to a season championship in 2012. Finishing second was Matt DiBenedetto, driving in just his second race for the famed Wood Brothers racing team. Ricky Stenhouse Jr. of JTG Daugherty finished third while Austin Dillon of Richard Childress Racing was fourth. Penske teammates Keselowski and Ryan Blaney finished seventh and 11th respectively. Blaney led 19 laps and had the lead late in the race. Seven-time champion Jimmie Johnson started 18th and climbed all the way to third in the final stage. He faded a bit but came on late to finish fifth. Ross Chastain filled in for Ryan Newman, who was injured in a horrific last-lap wreck a week ago in Daytona, as driver of the No. 6 Roush Fenway Racing Ford. Chastain started 15th, worked his way up but a spin late in the race sent him to a 27th-place finish. Rain forced cancellation of qualifying earlier in the weekend. Kyle Busch was on the pole, with Joe Gibbs Racing teammate Martin Truex Jr. on the outside of the front row. That put the defending Cup champion Busch on pole based on owner points. Because of inspection issues, however, Busch was dropped to the rear for the start. Joining Busch at the rear of the field were Joe Gibbs Racing teammate and Daytona 500 winner Denny Hamlin, as well as Christopher Bell of Leavine Family Racing. Truex Jr. led the field to green. Busch came back to finish 15th. Hamlin was 17th. --Field Level Media 
