cars
{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  13:58, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8035639/Susan-Miller-reveals-Mercury-retrograde-bring-GOOD-surprises.html }
Getting your day off on the right foot can be hard — particularly during a Mercury retrograde, when it can often feel like the whole world is against you right from the get-go.  Thankfully, famed astrologer Susan Miller has the perfect antidote: the ideal coffee for each sign to kickstart their day on a positive note, and some surprisingly happy news about Mercury retrograde. For those who believe the planets govern their lives, Mercury retrograde has become the scapegoat for people's misfortunes, but according to Miller, it can also bring 'good surprises' — and even the return of an old flame.  Astrologers like Miller warn that things can go a little haywire when Mercury — the planet of communication — goes retrograde, and thanks to its association with chaos and miscommunication, it's gotten a bad rap over the years.  The Astrology Zone founder, who has done readings for the likes of Emma Stone and Katy Perry, told DailyMail.com that her daughter often urges her to remind people of the positives, saying: 'Mommy, you should talk more about the good parts of Mercury retrograde.'  The astrological phenomenon occurs when the planet's orbit intersects with Earth's and it appears to be moving backward in the sky.   'You know when two cars are going fast on the highway, but one is going much faster than the other? The car you're in almost appears to other people like you're going backwards. You're not really going backwards. It's an appearance, but yet it has an effect,' Miller explained.  The first Mercury retrograde of the new year started on February 16 and will last until the planet goes direct on March 9. While astrology devotees tend to dread it, it can also dredge up things from the past, in a good way.  Miller said during this time people come across cherished items they thought they lost and 'detectives find clues to cold cases.' Sometimes people will hear on the news that 'a letter from 1942 arrived at somebody's mailbox.'   'The past comes to you. You run into somebody on the street, and it's your old friend from college you haven't seen in 10 years. You can't believe it,' she said. 'Or you hear from an old boyfriend that you never quite forgot and you're single and he's still single.'  The best-selling author explained that these blasts from the past tend to happen if 'it was something meant to be' or 'there was something more to be completed.'  Miller noted that her daughter 'tends to get a lot of calls from the past,' and for whatever reason, it doesn't affect her 'the way it does other people.'   While people like to blame everything that goes wrong in their lives on Mercury retrograde, the writer said it mainly affects communication and transportation.   'Mercury is the planet of communication, and when Mercury retrogrades he's not there to help us, and we miss his input. Contracts we sign have confusing clauses or missing language,' she said. 'You need two or three pairs of eyes to look at things. Also, you lose things.'  Miller said she always tends to lose her favorite earrings when it's Mercury retrograde, so she takes great care to keep them stored in the zipper section of her purse when she is traveling to and from events.  'Otherwise, my coat collar will take it off and then I get home and I'm like, "Oh no, one is missing,"' she said.  'It's like that. You know we just get forgetful and we do a lot and we're rushing around and you have to be more deliberate.' Miller said that while her daughter doesn't seem to be affected by it, she tends to have a harder time than most.    'To be born with Mercury retrograde and be working in publishing, which Mercury rules, it always affects me a lot — in a bad way,' she said, laughing.  'Like my email goes a little flukey. My computers act strange. I'm on the phone with Genius Bar and I'm going in to see them. I do get hammered a little bit more than usual.' Our star signs tell us a lot about our strengths and weaknesses, but apparently they're also an indicator of what flavors bring us joy.  Keeping that in mind, Susan Miller has teamed up with International Delight to find the perfect coffee creamer flavor for each zodiac sign, from classic French Vanilla for care-taking Cancers to Caramel Macchiato for eclectic Aquarians.  'I just thought it was such an original idea,' she told DailyMail.com. 'No one's ever asked me to do this before, and they had so many flavors.  The astrologer said in order to take on a project of this nature, she needed enough flavors to cover all 12 signs, and she was surprised to learn that the brand had far more than she needed.  'I said, "Well, let's start with the most popular ones, the ones that everybody just loves,' she recalled. 'The way I did it was through the planets.' She explained that Taurus is ruled by Venus and loves chocolate, which made the HERSHEY'S Chocolate Caramel coffee creamer an obvious choice.   Miller admitted that she wasn't familiar with International Delight until she tried the flavors for herself, but now she's hooked.  As for how she takes her own coffee, a splash of creamer is just enough for Miller.  'I don't like my coffee dark. I don't like it light,' she said. 'I just like it what we call in New York "regular."'  Aries: Cinnabon The first sign of the zodiac is ruled by Mars, the planet of desire, action, and energy. Aries are impulsive, passionate, and sometimes bossy, but they never have any problem stealing the spotlight.  Miller said the Cinnabon coffee creamer is a 'perfect' match for thrill-seeking Aries.   'For a person as adventurous as you, your favorite coffee creamer has a delicious spice at its base — cinnamon,' she explained. 'The creamer is divinely harmonious, and offers a clean finish that will have you reaching for another cup, and smiling every time.'  Taurus: HERSHEY’S Chocolate Caramel  Taurus is the stable, practical, and down-to-earth sign of the zodiac that puts great thought and effort into their relationships. Ruled by Venus, the planet of love and beauty, a Taurus wants the best of everything and to enjoy life as much as possible.  Miller said HERSHEY’S Chocolate Caramel coffee creamer is 'sure to please even the most discriminating Taurus.' 'This creamer brings an unexpected shot of caramel, adding to the sensual flavor experience,' she noted. 'It is so smooth, rich, and indulgent that once you try this flavor, you’ll want it to be a mainstay in your fridge, both for you and to those dearest to you.' Gemini: Southern Butter Pecan Gemini is the most sociable, communicative, and versatile sign of the zodiac. The sign is ruled by Mercury, the planet of communication, technology, and the mind, so it's no wonder Geminis are social butterflies.  'You are versatile, adaptable, flexible, perceptive, curious, and questioning,' Miller said. 'Southern Butter Pecan is your perfect coffee creamer, a flavor you’ll find intriguing and thoroughly delicious. The flavor of plump fresh pecans, brown sugar, and butter is irresistible.' Cancer: French Vanilla Cancers are caring, sensitive, and nurturing by nature. Ruled by the ever-changing moon, Cancers tend to be moody and are constantly changing their emotions. Keeping that in mind, Miller paired the sign with 'a classic fan-favorite loved by just about everyone —French Vanilla.'  You continually take good care of others in your circle, so you deserve a dash of classic sweet and creamy flavor to elevate the taste of your coffee, for any time of day,' she explained.  Leo: White Chocolate Mocha Leos are confident, demanding, and leaders of the zodiac. The sign is ruled by the Sun, and naturally, Leos like to be the center of attention.  'A worldly Leo needs a flavor that is as sophisticated and refined as you,' Miller said. 'International Delight White Chocolate Mocha fits the bill, a flavor that pairs the smooth sweet flavor of fine white chocolate with delicious mocha.  'This creamer is never too bold — White Chocolate Mocha has a clean finish, leaving you refreshed.' Virgo: Hazelnut Virgos are perfectionists. Ruled by Mercury, the planet of mind and communication, Virgos are detail-oriented and have a tendency to analyze everything.   'You are known to prefer the classic over the trendy,' Miller said. 'Hazelnut is the popular International Delight flavor just for you, for it brings in the toasty, rich taste of this delicious nut. Hazelnuts and coffee go together like a cup and saucer, a match made in heaven.' Libra: White Chocolate Raspberry Libras are diplomatic, sociable, and artistic. They are social butterflies who love connecting with others. The sign is ruled by Venus, the planet of love and beauty, and like Venus-ruled Taurus, Libras love to be surrounded by beauty and art. 'International Delight White Chocolate Raspberry is the coffee creamer for you, because Venus, your ruler, gives you a delicate sweet tooth,' Miller explained.  'This balanced flavor is never overly sweet, pairing the flavor of smooth white chocolate with a light surprise burst of fresh raspberries. This makes for a fantastically delicious celebration in your cup.' Scorpio: Amaretto Scorpios are passionate, deep, and mysterious. Ruled by Pluto, the planet of power and control, Scorpios have an incredible capacity for concentration.  'International Delight Amaretto is the coffee creamer flavor for you because Scorpios will prefer the velvety experience of almonds,' Miller said. 'Amaretto coffee creamer has depth, and is faithful to the traditional fragrant amaretto flavor that features a slight hint of apricot.' Sagittarius: Irish Crème Sagittarians are optimistic, adventurous, and humorous, which is what makes them so attractive to other people. The sign is ruled by Jupiter, the planet of expansions and big things. Sagittarians love to travel spend a great deal of their time discovering new and interesting places. 'In choosing a flavor for the zodiac’s adventuresome, pioneering traveler, the choice was simple: for you, dear Sagittarius, it is International Delight Irish Crème,' Miller said. 'It is sure to please, for Irish Crème combines the delicious flavor of brown sugar and sweet cream.' Capricorn: Cold Stone Creamery Sweet Cream Capricorns are practical, patient, and matter of fact. Serious in nature, they like to portray an image of being successful. The sign is ruled by Saturn, the planet of tough lessons and wisdom. Capricorns tend to be 'old souls' who are passionate about tradition and following the rules. 'You were born to be a leader, for you are an ambitious creature, steadfastly climbing toward the mountaintop to reach your professional goals,' Miller said. 'Cold Stone Creamery Sweet Cream is your perfect International Delight flavor match. 'Coffee and a touch of sweet ice cream are a natural match that you can enjoy all year round, any time you please.' Aquarius: Caramel Macchiato Aquarians are independent, eccentric, and innovative. They march to the beat of their own drum and can sometimes seem a bit 'out there' to the casual observer. The sign is ruled by Uranus, the planet of freedom and revolutionary vision. 'Choosing an International Delight flavor for such a cool, in-the-know Aquarian was easy — the delicious Caramel Macchiato for a coffeehouse flavor you will adore and keep coming back to enjoy,' Miller said. 'You will find this caramel creamer rich and smooth, the perfect addition to your coffee at any time of day.  'As an Aquarius, you have many friends, and the natural match of coffee and caramel will have you and your friends opting for just one more cup before hitting the road.' Pisces: Birthday Cake The last sign of the zodiac is ruled by Neptune, the planet of dreams, fantasy, creativity, and illusion. Pisces are creative, empathetic, imaginative, and spiritual. There is a part of them that always wants to escape reality, whether it is through physical activity or curled up with a good book. 'In choosing a flavor for you, dear Pisces, is something new, very original and that would appeal to your celebration of life. Birthday Cake, one of the newest flavors from International Delight, is perfect for you,' Miller explained.  'You will love the combination of rich vanilla frosting, yellow cake, and sprinkles. It’s yours to enjoy, celebrating birthday time not once a year but from now on, every day.' 
