{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:11, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8035001/Man-hanging-tree-Central-Park-apparent-suicide-near-Alice-Wonderland-statue.html }
A body has been found hanging on a tree in Central Park, in an apparent suicide near one of its most beloved children's attractions. New York Police responded to the scene Sunday morning after receiving a call around 6am according to one witness who stumbled upon the scene after cops arrived. 'Sad to have come upon the aftermath of a suicide in Central Park this morning,' a Twitter user shared. 'A man hung himself from a tree near the Alice in Wonderland statue. Rope and ladder were still there.'  An image on the New York Post showed nine officers standing around what appeared to be corpse covered in black plastic.   It wasn't immediately clear how long the body had been there before cops arrived. It also was not immediately known who discovered the body near East 74th Street and Fifth Avenue. NYPD would only confirm to DailyMail.com Sunday morning that police responded to the scene and found an unconscious male around 7am. The Post reported the man was in his 40s, wearing a black sweatshirt, sneakers, and jeans, and believed to be homeless. 'We were taking our normal walk in Central Park and then we saw all these cop cars,' Stacey Feldman, 59, told the Post. 'We saw them putting a body bag on [and] then we saw the rope. 'It makes you realize how fragile people’s lives are,' Michael Gunzberg, 59, added. The area is home to the Conservatory Water model-boat pond, public restrooms and a Le Pain Quotidien restaurant.  It's where park-goers go to rent radio- and wind-powered model boats from April through October but each winter the pond turns into an ice-skating rink if the weather permits. The 843-acres park is home to seven naturalistic water bodies, 58 miles of pedestrian paths, six miles of roads, almost five miles of bridle path, and approximately 20,000 trees.  It also 30 tennis courts, 26 ball fields, 21 playgrounds, two ice skating rinks, and a swimming pool.  But nearby the scene of the apparent suicide is especially loved by children thanks to a number of statues, including one of beloved storybook author Hans Christian Andersen reading The Ugly Duckling. The Alice in Wonderland Statue has been a part of the park's storytelling landscape since 1959 and depicts Alice enjoying the Madhatter's Tea Party with her friends. Philanthropist George Delacorte donated the statue as a gift to the children of New York City. The area inside the Manhattan park is also often recognized as a highlight of E.B. White's 1945 story, Stuart Little, and its 1999 film adaptation. It has featured in numerous other movies and TV shows.  For confidential support call the National Suicide Prevention Line on 1-800-273-8255.  
