{ By Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:09, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034335/The-big-change-coming-Uber-Ride-sharing-giant-switch-Netflix-style-service.html }
Uber could be set to carry out a major shakeup in the way passengers pay for travel. Experts predict the ride-share giant will switch to a subscription-based service based on Netflix or Spotify models, where users pay a set amount for a certain number of rides or kilometres, with no lock-in contracts or upfront payments.  'Uber will switch from specifically having someone who calls for a car, to someone who subscribes to a service of mobility,' KPMG automotive analyst Steven Bragg told 9News.  'It's going to be quite disruptive, but there's also a lot of opportunity for a lot of people,' he said.  Mr Bragg also predicts an additional 100,000 people every year will stop purchasing new cars in favour of rental options.    Data from the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries revealed 1,062,826 new cars were sold in the 12 months to December 31. This was the lowest total in eight years. While only 71,731 new cars were bought Australia wide sales in January 2020, 10,000 less than January 2019 or a drop of 12.5 per cent.    A combination of rising costs like road-tolls and registration fees are pushing more people towards care rental services. The industry is becoming flooded with new options outside of GoGet, which allows people to rent cars for periods of time ranging from a few hours to several days.  While newer services like FlexiGo, Carbar and Carly which allow customers to choose a specific type of car for to rent over a longer period of time. Melbourne resident Jeremy Lawrence signed up for a car-rental service ten years ago and has become a regular user. He said he has no need for the car at all hours, but may need it on occasion for birthday parties or moving furniture.  Mr Lawrence told 9news using a rental service cuts back on costs.  'I can pick and choose which car I want and I don't have to worry about maintenance,' Mr Lawrence said.   
