cars
{ By Charlie Moore For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:11, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033713/Police-shoot-dead-man-Brisbane-outside-Westin-Hotel.html }
A crazed knifeman was shot dead by police after a horrifying rampage in Brisbane's CBD on Sunday morning.   The 25-year-old Australian approached a white couple visiting from overseas and stabbed the man, 26, in a random attack before he was killed at around 10.20am. The victim, 26, was taken to hospital with a broken nose and a small stab wound in his back which was treated with a 'single stitch' before he was released. Gruesome pictures show the knifeman lying dead and bloody on the street. Horrified witnesses recalled hearing around seven gunshots ring out as he was shot down. One witness told the Courier-Mail he saw the attacker run up Mary Street before another man ran down covered in blood with head wounds. The knifeman put his weapon in a bin then grabbed a larger knife from his car before running after his victim, the witness said.  The witness, who owns a nearby store, said police arrived and yelled at the man several times to drop the knife. Queensland Police allege the man charged at officers and was critically injured when police returned fire. The man was pronounced dead at the scene after treatment from paramedics. A police spokesman told reporters how the attack unfolded.  'It my understanding is the couple had been in the city centre and they were like ordinary folk walking down the street,' the spokesman said. 'This other man - who has now died - he was walking towards them. That's where he stopped. They've stopped. They thought it was bit odd and the interaction continued from there. 'He's pulled something out of a bag which turns out to be a knife.'   The couple then ran away and the knifeman went after the man.  'A short distance later the male stopped because he thought the person chasing him had stopped,' the police spokesman said. 'At that time he was struck in the face. It's turned out that he's now got a broken nose and an injured lip.' The tourist then managed to get away before police arrived.   The spokesman said the couple were left 'shaken'.  'We don't know the motivation for this attack today but obviously we treat it very seriously,' the spokesman said.  Mary Street was closed between Edward and Albert streets and residents were urged to avoid the area. One witness wrote on Twitter: 'Never seen this many police cars and ambulances appear in minutes.' Another added: 'That was crazy. Police and ambo presence was so quick.' One witness, Adam Leishman, told the Courier-Mail: 'I was only about 15 metres from where the shooting was. 'I heard yelling and then I heard rapid fire of seven to 10 shots and I saw people running towards me.' The incident is under investigation by Ethical Standards Command on behalf of the State Coroner.  That investigation is subject to oversight by the Crime and Corruption Commission.  
