cars
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  23:24, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8033425/Infrastructure-spend-nuclear-rort-Labor.html }
Just when the Morrison government would have hoped the sports funding scandal had been put to bed after overshadowing the first parliamentary sitting weeks of the year, a new revelation has the potential to dog the next fortnight. Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese has described claims the government poured billions of dollars into infrastructure projects in coalition-held seats before the election as "nuclear" rorting. News Corp newspapers reported 144 of the 160 projects funded under the government's $4 billion Urban Congestion Fund - designed to reduce traffic gridlock and remove bottlenecks - went to either coalition or marginal Labor seats the government thought it could win. "What we've seen here is the sports rorts affair, and then we saw sports rorts on steroids with their so-called women's sports program," Mr Albanese told ABC television's Insiders program on Sunday. "This is nuclear level of rorting," he said of this latest revelation. Government frontbencher Angus Taylor defended the spending decisions saying two-thirds of the commitments were election commitments and went to the Australian people. "There's a mix of seats they went across including Labor seats, they're the facts" he told reporters in Sydney. "These are crucial initiatives to ensure people can get between home and work and wherever they may be going, safer and sooner." But Labor's infrastructure spokeswoman Catherine King said a quarter of the $3 billion allocated from the fund went to just four Liberals seats - Higgins, Deakin, La Trobe and Boothby. The 'urban' commitments even extended to the regional seats of Corangamite, Robertson, Fisher and Bass, all either held or targeted by the Liberal Party, she said. "We know there isn't a taxpayer funded program that (Prime Minister) Scott Morrison won't use for his own political purposes," Ms King said in a statement. "Does Scott Morrison really think traffic congestion stops when cars move onto streets in Labor seats? Does he take Australians for mugs?" Labor has written to the Auditor-General requesting an audit into the design, management and politicisation of the Urban Congestion Fund. 
