sport gaa
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    December 04 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/motion-forces-gaa-to-tackle-croker-crux-26101312.html }
SPLIT LIKELY IN GREAT 'OPEN DOOR' DEBATE A FASCINATING power-battle is in prospect within the GAA over the next few months over the thorny issue of whether or not to give the Central Council of the GAA the authority to rent out Croke Park for soccer or rugby. There are clear divisions within the organisation on the matter and these divisions are in all sectors, from ordinary club members to those at the very top. The public utterances of GAA president Sean McCague in recent weeks, which on the one hand seemed to be paving the way for rugby internationals in Croke Park and on the other to be ruling that out, were merely symptoms of the overall mood in the GAA on the matter. GAA presidents, or even past presidents, rarely speak out of turn in public. Some months ago, former boss Peter Quinn, who is looked upon as something of a financial guru within the GAA, made a passing comment about renting out Croke Park for rugby or soccer in order to pay for the upkeep of the refurbished stadium. We can take it that this was a kite-flying exercise to see what the reaction would be. As always, most leading GAA officers are sitting on the fence and will say nothing in public about the controversy. But in the coming weeks and months as club AGMs and County Board conventions take place the whole question of the uses to which Croke Park will be put in the next decade will be discussed from the top to the bottom of the GAA. But there will be little unanimity within the association on this subject because there are so many conflicting and diverse interests involved, including the following: * Those who will want any discussion about changing the rule which bans soccer and rugby from GAA grounds to be confined to Croke Park only and those who will say all GAA grounds should be treated the same way. * Some GAA members will oppose any relaxing of the present situation on the old familiar grounds of not giving an inch to what the GAA still refers to as foreign games. "We should not be selling out on our principles," will be their war-cry. * Many club officers around the country will violently oppose any development that could lead to soccer or rugby being played on their local grounds. They will claim that the hundreds of splendid club grounds around Ireland have been provided largely by the fund-raising efforts of local GAA people and voluntary labour and will resent any suggestion that competing sports should now be able to walk in and use these pitches and facilities for a rental charge. * There are likely to be conflicting opinions between Ulster GAA people and colleagues from towns and cities in the Republic. It was only when County Board chairmen were summoned to meet the GAA's Management Committee in Croke Park on Saturday that the extent of the redeveloped stadium's cost overrun was officially confirmed and it does not make pretty reading for GAA people around the country. From official figures it seems the rebuilding of Croke Park will now cost £39m more than originally costed and that of the total expenditure of £174m only £100m has so far been spent leaving the GAA with a huge task to raise the remaining funding. On top of that, it is reported that the annual maintenance of Croke Park will be over £2m. What the county chairmen were told in effect on Saturday was that the GAA is to set up a property management company to run Croke Park as a separate entity, removed from other GAA activity, with instructions to make sure it pays its way. THAT'S a tall order and the new grouping will surely have to look at getting sports events other than GAA ones into the stadium in the future. These figures will strike fear into the hearts of most GAA people because they know that the easy fund-raising has already been done through the corporate boxes and the like and that the final tranche of money will be harder to rake in. The fear is that heavy on-going fund-raising for Croke Park will deprive clubs around the country of grants from the GAA at central level. Inevitably, the government will be called upon again for a second major cash injection for Croke Park. The GAA's case is practically unanswerable because of the amount of money which the government is prepared to spend on the proposed new national sport centre in Abbotstown. Reports now indicate this will cost at least £750m. So if the government is willing to spend that sort of money for other sports, they should have few qualms about giving the GAA at least £50m, that is another £30m along with the £20m they have already given. But the big fear among GAA people is that any further government money will only come with strings attached. That could be an insistence that Croke Park be opened up to other sports or, bizarrely, that the GAA would play a certain number of its big matches in the new Abbotstown arena. If the FAI do go ahead with their new stadium, then the Abbotstown stadium would be depending on a few GAA games a year to make it viable. There is a clear divide among GAA people about renting out Croke Park for rugby and soccer, assuming of course, and it is a huge assumption, that either sport wished to rent the place. One viewpoint is that the GAA should take the money and run: rent the ground and spend the money on promoting Gaelic games around the country. Advocates of this approach say that the GAA would then be using the other sports to the GAA's advantage. The counter view from other GAA people is that it would be suicidal to give rival sports the additional promotion they would undoubtedly get from playing in a state-of-the-art stadium such as Croke Park will be. For while the older diehards in the GAA may detest soccer and rugby for all the wrong reasons, there are many younger GAA officials who see these sports as a major threat to the promotion of Gaelic games, particularly in towns and cities, and therefore would not wish the GAA to provide soccer and rugby with any more exposure than they already have. THERE has been a lot of foolish talk over the years about soccer and rugby in Croke Park and undoubtedly it has been used as a stick to beat the GAA with. But the reality is that neither the soccer or rugby organisations have ever asked the GAA for the use of their stadium. There have been instances of such requests being made in other locations, such as Omagh last year for the soccer match in aid of the Omagh fund. But the GAA's hands are tied by rule at present. At next year's Annual Congress there will be a motion from Laois asking that the GAA give authority to the Central Council to decide on the question of other sports being played on GAA grounds. If that is passed then the GAA will be in the market for soccer and rugby in Croke Park. But that motion applies to ALL GAA grounds and I cannot see it being passed in that form. If it specified Croke Park only then it probably would get through, provided people like Sean McCague, Liam Mulvihill and Peter Quinn are in favour, or at least are not working against it. Most of the big policy changes in the GAA in the past 20 years have been motivated by the desire to collect more money. Such things as the acceptance of sponsorship and, in particular, sponsorship by alcoholic drink companies, still annoys a great number of GAA members. If the need for more money is strong enough then it is reasonable to expect that yet another basic precept of the GAA will be ditched. But not before a lot of friction is created among people with very divergent views. * E-mail: emcgee@hotbot.com 
