sport gaa
{  
    December 05 2007 06:41 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/road-to-destruction-26336528.html }
LAST week the first, irrevocable step on the road to destruction was dangled in front of the GAA. That step was the pay-for-play arrangements "agreed" between some GAA people; the GPA; the Irish Sports Council; and the Irish Government. 'Destruction' is a strong, prescriptive word. So let's look at what we're at risk of destroying. The GAA is totally unique on this planet. It has two driving forces. First, it's about place ... about where you're from; who you are; your community; and its place in the world. Second, it's about "we" ... people working voluntarily for some greater good; for a value; an ethos; for something that's worthwhile; for community betterment. A recent ESRI report tells us that 43pc of all volunteering in Ireland is delivered by the GAA. Clearly there is something quite brilliant; unique; and totally precious about the GAA dynamic. Governments, our own included, stumble around trying to energise those two concepts. As Ireland increasingly comes apart at the social seams, we crave neighbourhood renewal ... community development ... community cohesion ... social capital ... and regeneration. Government invests hugely in trying, and largely failing, to create these things and scratches around for disappearing strengths such as citizenship. All the while, for 123 years now, we've had something that's delivered these in spades, quietly; unassumingly; but unbelievably effectively. That thing is the GAA. Yet, crazily, people now want to deconstruct it. Many of us will oppose the deconstruction of this prize-of-prizes that's made an immeasurable contribution to Irish life. Because, anachronistic as it might be at the end of 2007, we actually believe in those things. And we find it bizarre that less than 1pc of our membership should be allowed to undermine the core principles of over a century. Why is it that the GAA has become what it is? How come two global professional sports -- soccer and rugby -- between them couldn't develop even a small fit-for-purpose stadium in Ireland? How come what we're told is the global football game -- soccer -- attracted under 10,000 people to a borrowed show-jumping arena for its showpiece game last weekend? When the GAA attracted over 10,000 to the recent "Railway Cup,'' people said that was proof it was dead on its feet but hadn't the wit to lie down. And how come, across all the professional "sports" -- trawl through them at will, boxing, soccer, motor-racing, cricket, athletics, cycling, horse-racing, show-jumping, swimming and so on -- we can no longer believe what we see in front of us? Equally, how come that despite their mind-boggling financial power, none of them even attempts to deliver what the GAA does? The reason stares us in the face. It's the one key difference between them and us: they pay and we don't. Money corrupts, distracts, shifts the focus, demolishes "place", attacks the value system, fosters greed, replaces "we" with "me." Once you pay people to play sport, then whatever else you've got, it isn't sport. That's why many GAA people were astounded by the virtual fait accompli presented last Thursday. Senior inter-county GAA players to be given money because they're senior inter-county players. Where did our Rule 11 go in all this? The GAA, despite all the "guarantees" we heard to the contrary, to be the "payers-out" of the money. But, because it's now called an "award" (the word "grant" seems to be out of the frame) we're assured we've "copper-fastened" our amateur status. That really is the spin of spins. What will be the outcome? Well, it is now clearly in players' financial interests to hook up with a strong, successful county. Soccer's "Bosman" proves we won't have a legal leg to stand on if we try to stop that. "Place" as a GAA driver will be gone. And it's in players' financial interests to be "county-only'' at the expense of the club, at a time when there's constant breast-beating about the need to focus on the club. The most serious blow ever to GAA club playing activity has just been landed. A clear parallel inference is that only the county player, but no one else in the Association, is reckoned to make an "outstanding contribution." There's absolutely no acknowledgement of the countless thousands who, week-in, week-out, keep the magnificence that's the GAA alive and well. It's ironic that the GAA is actually rolling out a programme at the moment called "Valuing Volunteers." Last Thursday makes it very clear who's valued and who's not. And it strikes fatally at the whole brilliant balance that has made the GAA what it is. Look at what's happened to volunteerism in any of the professional games. It wasn't valued and it walked. Society pays several prices as a result. It's also deigned that voluntary county committee people will manage the new pay-for-play process. They'll carry the very significant associated legal risks and liabilities, plus the flak over who's in and who's out of panels. What about backroom teams? Are they out with the rest of us ... or will counties be black-guarded into paying them too? There's a lot of twisted, unethical thinking here. Pay an elite but let the volunteers provide all the support needed and carry all the cans involved. Meanwhile, not a single county committee, nor any other GAA unit, has been consulted on any of this. It's insulting and seriously out of order to use words like "sacrifice" when talking about county players' input. Have we lost the total run of ourselves in terms of what that word really means? Many people did make real sacrifices for the GAA, sacrifices that were a bit more serious. Many more non-GAA people continue to make real sacrifices on a daily basis right across Ireland. And has "Ireland PLC" really reached the point where, when we can't diagnose women with cancer, we will put €3.5m into the pockets of GAA players who, after all, are players solely because they choose to be players and because volunteers willingly resourced their choice? We're told this is all about respect: it's obviously now spelled r€sp€ct. Returning to the pay-for-play soccer last Sunday, I believe in the lead-up some players threatened to strike. Sound familiar? I don't know their response. But I do know ours in similar circumstances: total; unashamed; and embarrassing capitulation. The meeting tonight in The Elk in Toome, Co Antrim is about seeing what the grass-roots feel. If, at the end of this, the view put forward here loses, then so be it. We'll know the GAA we were reared with; which reared us; and which we tried to leave in better shape than we found it, is gone. The GAA, and those who made and maintain it, deserve better. So do Ireland and its people. To use an old Tyrone phrase, this €3.5m will be "dear bought." Don't let it happen. If you can, come to The Elk tonight. Or, over the next few days, visit a web-site called www.ofonebelief.org Bí linn is cuidigh linn! 
