sport gaa
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    July 06 2008 03:52 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/horse-racing/backing-the-wrong-horse-26459873.html }
R ecession is upon us and the Government has pledged to make €500m worth of public spending cuts. That's the kind of sum which can't be withdrawn painlessly. It will affect many areas of Irish society. Sport will be one of them. Yet the sad truth is that, before there was any word of an economic downturn, the Government had already started scaling back on its commitment to sport. In this Olympic year, the Sports Council found itself taking a €500,000 cut in funding from last year. The figures actually show a €3m increase but €3.5m of this was set aside to pay the spoilt brats of the Gaelic Players' Association. In real terms, the 63 national sporting bodies funded by the Council took a financial hit so that the Government could suck up to Croke Park. Yet this anomaly is only a venal sin in the larger context of how sport is funded in this country. Because Irish sports funding is a national scandal, one where muddle, inequity and pandering to vested interests are almost enshrined as principles. It is a national disgrace and an object example of how to spend money badly. Take this for starters. This year the Sports Council, which must fund the 63 bodies previously mentioned as well as paying for the national dope testing programme and also the high-performance programme which endeavours to give our Olympians some chance of competing on a level playing field, received a grand total of €57m. The Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund, on the other hand, picked up €76m. Two sports were deemed to be worth €20m more than 63 sports. The story of the Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund is an instructive one of how good intentions can gradually give rise to injustice. It was originally set up in 2001 as a response to governmental unease about the fact that bookmakers were making big profits from horse racing but putting nothing back into the sport. Someone had the bright idea that betting tax could be put into a fund which would benefit the racing industry. The problem was that, as the years went by, betting tax was steadily reduced until, at present, it stands at a negligible one per cent which, in recent years, has not sufficed to cover the ever-increasing commitment of the Government. Additional funding has been kicked in. An Economic and Social Research Institute report on the situation, written by Tony Fahey of the ESRI and Liam Delaney of UCD, concluded that, "State funding is lavish in extent and weak in justification." Which is putting it mildly given that last year the fund, which largely goes toward horse racing, swallowed up around a quarter of total expenditure on sport. The funding is lavish to the extent that over half of the prize money at Irish races is provided by the Government, which is quite ironic given the sport's popularity among big business types with a belief in the superiority of the Free Market. Horse racing thus holds the kind of position in modern Ireland that ballet used to in the Soviet Union. What makes this use of funding seem particularly ill-advised is that no Irish sport has the obvious connections with wealth that horse racing does. It would come as something of a surprise to anyone who has witnessed the mass descent of helicopters and ostentatious guzzling of champagne at big Irish race meetings that this sport is a charity case singled out for support by the Government. Surely if the fund was cut to more reasonable dimensions or even abolished altogether the high rollers who surround racing could kick in a few bob towards the prize money. And if the seventh and eighth races had to be taken off the cards at an odd meeting so that the grievous injustice to other sports could be remedied, would it be such a loss? Apologists for the current state of affairs may point to the 7,600 people employed in the horse racing industry. But no one would seriously expect mass unemployment to result if racing had to stand on its own four hooves. Its trainers and owners are generally very wealthy individuals. Even the members of syndicates usually earn well above the average wage. In any event, the Government has done its duty by the sport with the abolition of stallion fees for the bloodstock industry. Only the most partisan observer could deny that the money forked out to horse racing is a waste of scarce resources and a pandering to vested interests. So why has it happened? Well perhaps the popularity of the sport with the kind of wealthy businessman who can always be depended on for a 'political donation' has done its cause no harm. Having got rid of the tent at the Galway Races, Brian Cowen might consider removing this equally dodgy equestrian shelter. Perhaps the central plank of the Government's sporting policy has been the encouragement of greater participation. Yet, no sport is as inimical to participation as horse racing. The only actual participants are the jockeys and the horses -- everyone else is a spectator. People enjoy their day out at the races but this puts no onus on the Government to subsidise the pastime. We do not, after all, exempt drink from excise duties or subsidise cinemas and rock concerts; €76m, on the other hand, would build a hell of a lot of sports centres and provide state-of-the-art sporting facilities for most of the nation's children. In any event, the question remains as to why the bookies were allowed to wriggle off the hook. They successfully put on the poor mouth when betting tax was abolished in England, claiming they'd have to move their businesses across the water if it was not slashed here. Internet betting was also mentioned as a threat to the livelihood of our big bookmaking chains. Yet, last year, €3.9bn was wagered in this country. If the Government had increased betting tax by a mere one per cent, an extra €39m would have been available to fund sport. Bringing it back up to the five per cent level which pertained when the Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund began would have yielded €195m, more than half of total government expenditure on sport last year. When Charlie McCreevy more or less abolished betting tax, he made a quip about adding to "the gaiety of the nation". I'm all for the gaiety of the nation myself but, over the next while, we'll all be told that belts have to be tightened and sacrifices have to be made. It's not too much to expect the bookies to pay their share, given their basically parasitic relationship to sport. Having ponced off sport for so long, they can hardly complain about having to help out financially, especially given that betting turnover has doubled in this country in the past five years. There's no reason, either, that that money should have to go to horse racing. For all those threats about moving abroad, I don't really see leading bookmakers selling off their lucrative high street shops because of some small financial discomfort. Then again, the gambling industry also has the ear of politicians in a way that someone whose kid trains in a boxing gym with a leaky roof doesn't. I don't agree with the current moral panic about betting, I enjoy a bet myself. But neither do I think of it as some kind of essential service. If you can afford to put €20 on a horse, you can afford to pay an extra euro on top of that. There's a lot more money available for sport than you might think at first glance. Which is just as well because we've scrimped on funding for our brightest and best even through the years of the Tiger. Our total expenditure on the elite athlete programme in the four years since the last Olympics has been €30m -- or well under half what the horse and greyhound racing industries got in one single year. There are two grounds for funding elite athletes. The first, and most obvious, is that sport is at one level about the promotion of excellence. But the second is that the provision of outstanding role models is acknowledged as one of the best ways to increase general sporting participation, with all the social and health bonuses that this brings to society. Our improved performances in rowing, athletics and boxing in recent years are directly attributable to the increases in funding which enabled the Sports Council to set up high-performance programmes. Yet, to coin a phrase, it's a case of a lot done, a lot more to do. Take cyclist David O'Loughlin, from Cong in Mayo. Sports Council funding enabled him to undergo a specialised track programme over the past year. The result was that he progressed from being an also-ran at international level to smashing his personal best, finishing sixth in the world championships and qualifying for the Olympics. There is a feeling that a similar track programme on a larger scale could lead in the long-term to Ireland becoming a world power in cycling. This targeting is how small countries, the Norways, Slovakias and Denmarks of this world, punch above their weight at Olympic level. But it costs money. Money which the Government is losing on the horses. Leaving Olympic considerations aside altogether, there is another problem with sporting provision in this country and it cuts to the very heart of democracy. An ESRI report which came out last year proved an eye opener for many people. (These reports are invaluable because so much of the discourse surrounding sport is bedevilled by anecdote and conventional wisdom). Its key point was that "the large majority of people who play sport in Ireland are from the higher income and better educated social groups. This means that public spending on sport is very likely to be regressive, with the less well off subsidising the activities of the better off." The figures were startling. Someone in the richest 25 per cent of Irish society was five times more likely to play sport than someone in the bottom 25 per cent. This applied even to Gaelic games and soccer. The report also noted that "there is no evidence that people in more disadvantaged areas are less motivated or interested in sport". They just weren't getting the chance. It also pointed out that 80 per cent of the sports budget comes from the National Lottery whose tickets are bought in disproportionate numbers by, yes, you've guessed it, the poorest people in the country. At which stage Irish sports funding begins to look like a particularly sick joke, one played by the rich upon the poor. The poor, it goes without saying, aren't in a position to benefit from Government prize money at races, though no doubt they leave a few bob they can ill afford with the tax-free bookies. Everywhere you look, injustice and illogic riddle the sports funding system. That €3.5m the Government ordered the Sports Council to hand to the GAA may not seem like a lot. Yet it was money the GAA could well afford. Instead, fresh from screwing big money out of the state broadcaster for television rights and persuading that broadcaster to sponsor the hurling championships, the Association then looked to the state to pay its players. For the GAA, €3.5m is very little but it would have meant a lot to some smaller sport without the wherewithal to generate large amounts of money from commercial sources. It's not just the GAA. The IRFU and the FAI are also mollycoddled. Twelve million euros of the Sports Council's money this year went to paying development officers in those relatively wealthy sports, while over a third, €116m out of €336m, of this year's national sporting budget went towards the renovation of Lansdowne Road. New Minister of Sport, Martin Cullen, has promised to put up a fight to prevent cutbacks in sports funding. Yet the problems are far greater than those suddenly posed by the recession. Cutbacks won't do sport a fraction of the harm already being done by the lopsided way in which it is currently financed. There would be public support for change, the most recent ESRI report on sport showed that the hegemony of the three big associations in terms of participation is steadily diminishing. One of Cullen's predecessors, Jim McDaid, once responded to queries about the wisdom of the Bertie Bowl project by saying that we were "awash with money". That can still be the case for Irish sport. The Minister won't even have to look for an extra cent. All he has to do is spend the money that's there properly. Now what do you think the odds are on that? thephotograph@hotmail.com 
