sport gaa
{  
    January 15 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/gpa-are-prepared-to-take-strike-action-if-necessary-26407306.html }
DERMOT CROWE THE GAA may find its amateur status facing a serious challenge unless it is seen to actively pursue Government grant assistance for inter-county players in the coming weeks and months. Increasing pressure is likely from the players' body, GPA, to provide compensation for loss of earnings, with strike action not ruled out if necessary. "They can wake up and smell coffee and say, well, 'this is an issue we need to address', or they can say 'no' and rule it out," says Dessie Farrell, GPA chief executive, who hopes to meet with the Minister for Arts, Sports and Tourism, John O'Donoghue, and the GAA in the next few weeks to discuss the issue. A GPA commissioned survey last autumn found over 70 per cent of players backed a move into semi-professionalism due to the financial losses incurred while involved with inter-county teams. The GPA sent a copy to the results to Croke Park but received no response. While they are anxious to find some compromise, such as Government grants, Farrell did not rule out strike action if players felt they were being ignored. "Obviously that's a last resort and we're not in the business of making veiled threats. But experience will tell us with what happened in the case of Cork hurlers and with Offaly footballers as well that it's the ultimate tool of negotiation as far as the players are concerned. And, realistically, when it comes to it it's the only artillery they have." He accepted that a strike on that basis may not command the public support of those he listed as precedents. "It would be very different because it would be a very divisive issue and that's not going to happen until the players are united on it. But once that day comes public opinion might not be the major player at all. "What we're saying is that it shouldn't come to that, there are ways and means of doing this thing, of appeasing players. It's not that players are into making a financial killing on this; people need to understand that. I don't think the GAA would ever sustain professionalism but there's no evidence to suggest it couldn't sustain semi-professionalism of some sort. "What we're talking about is fellas still being able to work away at their own individual careers and being recompensed or rewarded for the time and contribution they make on top of that. I don't think you're talking about huge amount of money either but it's obviously going to take a change of culture." A suitable compromise would be Government grant assistance for GAA players based on their contributions to Irish culture and heritage. But now it has emerged that the grant aid proposal is at risk following a Department of Finance request that the GAA handles a percentage of the cost. This pre-condition, related by the Irish Sports Council to the GPA shortly before Christmas, is unacceptable to the GAA. "If that's the way it would go then it would be direct pay for play," said President Seán Kelly, "and require a change of official (GAA) policy." Kelly also said he believed that this recently raised stipulation is at odds with the standard formula of grant dispensation. "The sports people in all the other organisations getting grant aid are receiving the money without the governing sports body having to contribute as far as I'm aware." More recently the Irish Sports Council has suggested that there is no immediate prospect of providing grant assistance to inter-county players. The GPA says that all parties to talks on the proposal had supported the venture in principle, and the Government had insisted that the cost - under ?4 million - was not a factor. It was simply a case of working out a suitable mechanism accepted to all sides. Now, following the latest hitch, the GPA is strongly recommending that the GAA increases its efforts to persuade the Government to release the grant aid to recognise the important role played by its top hurlers and footballers in Irish culture and heritage terms. It says that GAA players are the only elite sports people in the country currently being discriminated against with regard to sports grant support. Farrell refused to be dismayed by John Treacy's recent comments in which he hinted that the scheme was not a short term prospect. "He didn't rule it out - he said it might be some time off yet but I would have a different view on that. I think there's a lot to be played out on that in the coming months. Definitely there is a sense of injustice there. Players do feel they are discriminated against. "I think while we have been doing all the running to date now is the time for the GAA to row in and start pushing this issue. Because ultimately it would save them a big headache down the line." That headache is a GPA backed campaign for semi-professionalism. "We have made it clear all along that once we open the door (to professionalism), then we can't close it again," stated Seán Kelly. "I think the vast majority of GAA people want the games to stay amateur. Whatever we do would have to be within these boundaries." He said that they were supportive of the grant assistance proposals "in principle". When it was put to him that the GPA might consider a tougher line of action if the GAA did not fully engage in discussions on player issues in the coming months, he replied: "There is no point going in that direction; that is not the way to do business." Kelly has built up a good relationship with the GPA and the players' body went on record to say that it would ideally like to see him continue as president for a couple of more years were it possible. In April Nicky Brennan will succeed Kelly and he faces a delicate and fiercely emotive issue, the most important in the entire history of the GAA. Having initially ruled out any form of pay for play, instead focusing on improving player conditions, the survey findings on semi-professionalism represent a hardening of the GPA line. "What's apparent is that the mindset of players has changed dramatically in the last number of years," says Farrell. While Kelly has rejected any compromising of the amateur tradition, Farrell urged the GAA to respond positively to alternative options, warning them of the consequences of ignoring the issue. "In the absence of evolution there'll be a revolution. I can see that down the road," he said. "I think if the GAA were smart about this, first of all they would open up and begin negotiations and discussions and have fruitful talks, because if they want to bury their heads in the sand and romanticize about amateur ethos and everything else the thing will erupt down the line; I've no doubt about that." He says that there may be other ways of raising finance to offset players' loss of income or potential income rather than direct payment - sponsorship, players' pools - but that State grant assistance was the most amenable to both sides in that it didn't breach the amateur code. As the GPA sees it the money would be issued to the Irish Sports Council, who would in turn give it to the GAA and they would distribute the grants to all the players, including those in the six counties. In the initial draft plan, there would be three levels of funding: ?2,500 for tier one, ?1,750 for tier two, and ?1,000 for tier three. In hurling that would break down into the McCarthy, Ring and Rackard Cups. In football it would be based on the extent of a player's involvement in the championship. First round qualifier knock-outs would get the lowest sum, while the top 12 teams would take receipt of ?2,500, according to the GPA's projections. Based on 63 inter-county panels (Kilkenny do not field a football team in the championship), the total annual cost to the Exchequer would be approximately ?3.6m. Before Christmas his GPA colleague Donal O'Neill, said that greater revenue meant a greater onus on the GAA to compensate players. "When Croke Park starts hosting the rugby and soccer internationals the GAA is going to have ?30 million coming in from those extra games. Meanwhile players will be operating in this vacuous state where the GAA is turning over ?150-200 million while a house in Dublin will cost ?700,000. "There seems to be a reticence within the GAA to look seven to 10 years down the line. The GAA needs to look beyond presidential terms and look long term." Farrell says he would be "very, very disappointed" if they had not made a breakthrough on the grant proposal in six months' time. 
