sport gaa
{ JEROME REILLY 
    September 25 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/what-price-glory-26175574.html }
The GAA will smash the £10m income barrier this year, but the Galway and Kildare footballers who will generate nearly £1m in gate receipts at tomorrow's All-Ireland final are lucky to get free boots, 25p-a-mile petrol expenses and the occasional foreign holiday At exactly 3.23pm tomorrow the Artane Boys band will strike up the traditional Irish march Mairseáil Uí Chonchubhaire and 30 athletes at the absolute summit of physical fitness will fall into line and take their tribute in the tense moments before the ball is thrown in for the 1998 All-Ireland football final. Ray Silke and his Galway team will ride a tidal wave of adulation from the sea of maroon at the Canal End while Glen Ryan's men will accept an avalanche of roars from lily white blizzard on Hill 16. For the players it's the culmination of more than 150 back-breaking days and nights without financial reward on the training pitches of Newbridge and Tuam during the 12 months and two weeks of preparation. Players from 30 other counties would eat an O Neill's ball sans salt for the privilege of striding out on the hallowed sward tomorrow in front of 65,000 paying customers. More than £800,000 will cascade into the GAA's coffers tomorrow, ticket touts will make £500 for a pair of Hogan Stand tickets and the pubs around Croke Park will sell an ocean of pints. Yet the players who bring in the money, the men who will dominate the sports and news pages on Monday and RTE's Sunday programming are virtually slaves within the GAA. Awash with hard cash the association seem willing to treat the men who keep the turnstiles oiled like latterday gladiators, expendable and unrewarded but for the glory of parish and county. The ethos that players should be grateful just for the chance of wearing the county colours still holds sway at the essential power points of the organisation. It is not that the £3.2m profit from revenue of £8.5m posted by the association last year is being siphoned off or wasted on lavish entertainments for the top brass. Given its spectacular turnover, which would shame many of Ireland's top businesses, the GAA is ultra-lean, with not much more than handful of executive size salaries to pay and money from the All-Ireland championships filters down to the smallest parish teams, north and south, ran by unpaid volunteers. But the GAA is now in danger of cutting the throats of the geese which lay the golden eggs. The days of a 10 or 12-year inter-county career are over. So great is the physical, mental and financial hardship that some of the most talented players are now openly talking of retirement at 27 years of age. D.J.Carey's premature retirement earlier this year, albeit rescinded later, is symptomatic of worrying developments among the stars of '98. Six to eight years at the top level is now regarded as just about attainable. Irish international soccer star Niall Quinn, a former Dublin minor hurling star who counts Tipperary manager Nicky English and many former Tipp stars among his friends, says he is astonished at the level of fitness and commitment shown by the `amateurs' of the GAA. ``The level of training is phenomenal. While I am not qualified to comment on pay-for-play, there is no doubt that the GAA must treat its stars with respect. They should have the trappings of professionalism because they work as hard as professionals. Top class medical treatment and insurance cover and decent expenses seem reasonable. They shouldn't lose money,'' he said. One senior inter-county star recently said that playing inter-county hurling costs him about £10,000 a year in lost wages, lost overtime and travelling expenses which are not adequately compensated. What inter-county players receive for their efforts depends on where they are born. There are `two nations' in GAA country, relatively wealthy, generally successful county teams backed by large supporters clubs and big populations. In this group in no particular order are Kildare, Galway, Dublin, Cork, Meath, Kerry, Tipperary and Clare. The smaller counties with little realistic hope of All-Ireland glory like Fermanagh, Leitrim, Sligo and Westmeath are not rolling in cash. Generally the `rewards' for players are consistent enough throughout the 32 counties and almost laughable given the rigours of training deemed essential for competitiveness. At the same time as completing training regimes which would leave Britain's biggest earning footballer David Beckham rolling in agony, GAA players must keep down a real job or trade or successfully complete studies. Mileage ranges from a pitiful 12p to a hardly generous 25p per mile. (The Automobile Association recommended mileage rate accepted by the Revenue Commissioners for tax purposes is about 55p per mile.) Free boots for inter-county players would seem reasonable but not every team gets them. A limited amount of other kit like track suits, bags and training tops again depending on the individual county is made available as well as post-match clothing usually polo shirts and slacks. If they reach an All-Ireland final there's the heady prospect of a free suit, shirt and tie and `a banquet' with their partners. It is now accepted wisdom that members of inter-county squads all get free holidays in the sun yet the facts don't back up that rural myth. Out of the 32 counties who fielded hurling and football teams last year, only 10 squads went on a hot spot vacation. If Galway win tomorrow there is the unprecedented offer of £50,000 to pay for a foreign holiday from Supermacs boss Pat McDonagh but that generosity is the exception rather than the rule. Not all counties even offer hot meals after thrice weekly training sessions even though exiled players living outside the county may have to travel for hours to get home. One primary factor is that most of the GAA funds are locked in at Central Council or Provincial Council level. County boards are rarely cash rich and most are dependent on official and unofficial supporters clubs and team sponsors. Supporters clubs are treated with suspicion at official level but the conservatives who hold key positions in county boards are usually grateful for the hard currency supporters clubs can generate through golf classics, draws and other fundraisers. It is the supporters clubs who generally supply the trappings of professionalism, the little extras which are the difference between misery in the lesser counties and some sort of recognised athletic status among players in the eight big teams . Offaly senior football coach Tommy Lyons is utterly opposed to professionalism and `pay for play', as are most players and almost all officials. But he believes that a new regime to reward players is long overdue. His modest proposals hardly undermine the amateur ethos and won't bleed the association dry, given that this year's Kildare/Meath Leinster final generated £800,000 in gate receipts. Lyons believes that players should get a minimum 25p-per-mile travelling expenses, between £300 and £500 for training gear and be covered for genuine out of pocket expenses. ``Sending an entire panel of players and backroom staff on holiday costs about £17,000 and given the work they put in and the impact on family life it's not too much to expect,'' he says. Lyons who brought the Leinster title to Offaly last year was speaking as the Galway and Kildare teams were winding down their training, resting before tomorrow's big clash. Yet his own Offaly panel were having their first official get together and light training session for next year's Championship and the forthcoming national league. Ahead of them and other county teams is a back-breaking regime designed to bring them to olympian levels of fitness for the first round of the championship next year. Fitness expert Dave Mahedy of the University of Limerick has helped prepare the Limerick hurlers as well as working with St Patrick's Athletic in the paid ranks of League of Ireland soccer and is now involved with the full-time contracted rugby professionals of Munster. ``The types of fitness for all three sports are different, Football and hurling are speed/endurance sports, soccer is more endurance based while rugby is much more strength and power oriented. But in terms of fitness and preparation there is no difference between GAA players who don't get paid and the professionals in other sports. `The primary difference is that as well as training, GAA players must work or study. That leaves little time for the rest and recuperation and the food and fuel, which are vital components in physical preparation. ``If I have the professional Munster rugby players in for training in the morning the ideal situation is for them to eat and then go to bed before coming in for a late afternoon session. A GAA player hasn't got that luxury.'' He believes that the most recent major advances in fitness levels stemmed from the success of Ulster teams in the football championship, where Down, Derry and Donegal won the Sam Maguire in rapid succession. ``They applied the principals of sports science to a much greater degree and they trained harder and smarter. The other teams followed their example just like they followed the example of Mick O'Dwyer and Kevin Heffernan in the 70s and 80s. ``The key principal of both football and hurling is to get to the ball first. It is only when you have the ball that the skill element comes into it. The best footballer in the country can do nothing if he can't get the ball from a fitter, faster opponent.'' To that end, increasingly high-tech training programmes are being utilised by most counties. When they return in September/October inter-county players expect three training sessions a week or two sessions if there is a league or a challenge match at the weekend. In the autumn it's mostly strength training, with weights and indoor circuit training. Some players get their own individual training and dietary programmes depending on their requirements extra heavy weight training for young or physically small players who need bulking up, lighter weights and more repetitions for those inclined to carry excess weight, according to Dave Mahedy. Total body fat, basic speed and endurance are measured in a series of fitness tests. Medical tests including blood analysis are becoming the norm. By January, track sessions, modified weight training programmes designed to increase stamina as well as cross country running, supply the endurance element of the fitness programme. More skills improvement sessions and match practice are gradually introduced. Later, as the first date in the championship looms the emphasis will be on speed and sharpness, match practice and skills. By the first round of the championship they will be in peak condition and if they win their opening matches, the skill of the backroom boys is to bring the players back to a peak for each game. GAA players may not even know it but most of the top county teams with professional training advice may also introduce an element of plyometrics the same sports science based power and agility exercises which Arsene Wenger brought to Arsenal from the continent. According to Dave Mahedy, there is a tendency for the amateurs in the GAA to be in awe of the training methods employed by the cross channel professionals in the Carling Premiership. ``Because many teams in professional soccer are trained by former players who have no background in sports science, the overall standard of training at the lower level of the Premiership and Division One may not be as high as many people might imagine. ``In professional soccer there is also a greater emphasis on endurance because of the 90-minute nature of the game,'' he adds. ``Something will have to give in the GAA. We have already reached the stage where playing careers at the top level are shorter because of the demands placed on players. Is it time for pay-for-play? I don't know.'' Tommy Lyons agrees: ``It is not the training which kills players but all that goes with it, getting out of bed at 5 in the morning to do a day's work on the farm after a very hard training session and the mileage involved driving home 100 miles after sessions. ``I can see that there will be more players availing of the transfer system so they can play in the counties where they live rather than the counties where they were born. It's mileage that's the killer,'' Lyons believes. Sunderland star Niall Quinn, whose soccer skills have made him a wealthy young man, admits that the training endured by unpaid GAA players is staggering. However, he points out that while GAA players have to peak for just six or seven games in the championship season, most professional soccer players will play 60 games in a season. ``That is the difference maintaining a certain level of fitness all year round. Since July 1st I haven't had a day off. If I wasn't training then I was in the treatment room. GAA players reach a physical peak for one game at a time. Professional soccer players have to reach 95 per cent of that level week after week,'' he said. GAA inter-county stars are probably among the fittest amateur athletes in World Sport and it is understandable that Croke Park is opposed to professionalism given the very mixed results paid players brought to the rugby world. But unless the GAA grasps the nettle and players receive adequate compensation for their efforts some of the best footballers will be lost to the games long before they reach their full potential. Galway and Kildare fans who watch tomorrow's final should remember that the players are doing it for free.  It's time to show them the money, not too much perhaps, but enough to recognise their efforts. It shouldn't cost you money to play for your county. 
