sport gaa
{  
    September 08 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/gaa-is-getting-rich-quick-but-what-of-its-poor-relations-26316396.html }
FOR an organisation that constantly proclaims the primacy of its amateur status, the GAA is very interested in making money... BIG, BIG money. In the coming months they will hope to close deals involving live television rights, commercial sponsorship and advertising rights which will bring in so much money they will hardly know what to do with it. And all this is on top of the financial bonanza that the new Croke Park stadium has turned out to be. The world-class stadium has been an astonishing success as a revenue earner for the Association, greatly helped of course by the controversial decision to make it available for international rugby and soccer games. When the development of the stadium was being planned about 20 years ago it was always intended that it would provide extra revenue for the GAA, but nobody in their wildest dreams could have foreseen just how much money it would bring in. Last year the profit was almost €17million but for 2007 it will be closer to €30m. Apart from the fact that more than two million people will pay to watch sport in Croke Park this year, the other facilities, mainly the conference centre, are now among the most sought after in Dublin. The impact which the dramatic new stadium has made on Irish commercial life has been a huge boost for the GAA. The business fraternity in Ireland and abroad has had to reassess its whole attitude to the GAA, and the old mindset which ordained that GAA was the poor relation to rugby and soccer in financial and commercial terms has been blown out of the water. Nowadays the GAA is the leader and the rest must try to follow, and its ownership of Croke Park is the key factor. Twenty-five years ago, when Landsdowne Road, Glenmalure Park, Milltown and Dalymount Park were all flourishing in Dublin, you would have been laughed at if you suggested that one day the IRFU and the FAI would be depending on the GAA to allow them to play their big matches in Ireland rather than abroad. It is against that dramatically altered business, sporting and social background that the GAA will be negotiating new terms for their three major sources of income -- television rights, sponsorship of competitions and stadium advertising. Already it has been made clear that major changes in how all three will be handled are on the cards. There will no longer be a single sponsor for the All-Ireland football or hurling championship, which means that at long last the name of Guinness will no longer be directly associated with the hurling series, and that will surely please Dr Mick Loftus and a lot of other people. Instead it is proposed to have three sponsors associated in a broader way with both the football and hurling All-Irelands in the same style as the Champions League. It is expected that the revenue from this approach will increase the value of the hurling and football championship sponsorship from the present €2m per year to around €6m. Nice work if you can get it. Regarding television rights, a similar fragmentation is planned where the sum of the new parts will greatly exceed the present system. Several television stations will be bidding for various sections of the GAA's competitive structures and the winners here, apart from the GAA's financial controller, will be the public, who are sure to have a wider selection of live televised games to watch, some free to air and others pay-per-view. It is that way in sport the world over and will be no different in Ireland. The stadium advertising, however, is very interesting because it will not just apply to Croke Park but to every ground where championship games will be played. Part of any new deal will involve every ground, be it Thurles, Portlaoise or Casement Park, being available to the three big sponsors of the particular championship as a 'clean stadium'. This is not what these words might seem to mean but rather that the ground is available for advertising ONLY to the three championship sponsors for the day of the particular match. Again this is mimicking Champions League venues and provides the payback to the sponsors in lieu of not having their name actually attached to the name of the competition, such as the 'Guinness Hurling Championship' in recent years. How this requirement will go down with the various County Boards around Ireland will be interesting to observe. In all the famous GAA grounds there are many local advertisers who have invested in the GAA through good times and bad, in fact mostly bad, since advertising was first introduced at GAA grounds. There is bound to be huge resentment in some places if these loyal supporters have their advertising signs removed on the day of the big televised games and one can see hell to play in many places. The County Boards will be compensated, presumably, but how they will handle disgruntled local advertisers will be interesting to watch. This is but one of many new problems that arise when an amateur organisation like the GAA goes into overdrive, increasing revenue by selling their image and other rights to big business. Invariably the small people who have worked for the GAA on a voluntary basis all their lives will be pushed aside somewhat just as the local advertisers will lose out. With its recent announcement that it will distribute around €38m surplus money from Croke Park receipts and elsewhere to the so-called 'Grassroots' of the GAA this year, the GAA appears to be attempting to appease any dissidents and lay the groundwork for similar ventures in the future. However, if this money is simply channelled into the bottomless pit which county board finances represent then the ordinary GAA club and its members will not be one bit better off as a result of the GAA's new-found financial bonanza. The impact of all these extra millions on the GAA's relationship with intercounty players of course is also paramount. Nobody can deny that the money from television, advertising and sponsorship is generated in the first place by those who play on county teams. How long more in these materialistic times such players will be content to play for the honour and glory alone, as they watch the GAA's turnover multiply several times, will be one of the fascinating things to observe over the next five or 10 years. Nobody can blame the GAA for maximising its financial returns which have come about from money well spent on developing grounds, coaching, etc, over many years. But lots of GAA people are worried about the emphasis being placed on making more and more money. It is a difficult scenario about which the GAA will need to tread very warily if it is not to ostracise some of the many people who have given their lives to hurling and football in a completely voluntary basis. Big money and amateur sport have had a volatile relationship the world over and it's hard to see how it can be any different with the GAA. 
