sport gaa
{  
    April 05 2014 09:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/have-your-say-30158950.html }
Little man being ignored by GAA I wish to voice my annoyance at the decision of the GAA to sign a contract with Sky television to cover 14 championship games. The GAA president put forward the view that Sky would help to promote the games abroad. What about the people who do not have Sky in Ireland as (a) they cannot afford it or ( b) they choose not to have it? What do these do to watch the games – go to the pub? There is a huge pub culture surrounding the Heineken Cup. Likewise, people go out to view Premier League soccer. Having retired from playing hurling and football, I now coach at various levels. I contribute to club draws, pay my membership each year and my car is available to take players to and from games. I do not have Sky nor will I be getting it. The GAA has not taken into account those people who have given their time promoting the game down through the years. Sky is now covering 31pc of championship games. The answer coming from the GAA hierarchy is that you can go to the matches. I am a Corkman and I would like to see the Offaly-Kilkenny Leinster championship match on TV but Sky are covering the game. The GAA used to be about every little parish and every little village; now it is about running a business. The little man and his field of dreams no longer count. Pat Harrington Numbers up for psychic Sweeney Now that Eamonn Sweeney has perfected the art of predicting the future ('Believe the hype – it will be massive', Mar 30), can I please request that he pick and publish six numbers between 1 and 45 for a Lotto draw in the not-too-distant future. Matt Coughlan Beginning of the end for the GAA I was never much of a GAA player but when I lived in Boston and then Riyadh it didn't matter because just taking part in training and organising was enough. The fun and bonding that formed was a great experience and knowing an Irish community was there through the means of the GAA was a great comfort. There's very little left in Ireland that I can say is brilliant but the rise of the GAA has been one of those fantastic success stories. It has managed to bring the sport into the modern era, make it fashionable, and bring the sport into the larger towns and cities. The evolution of the GAA has been a remarkable feat and even more remarkable is that it has been done by local volunteers. The GAA has now decided that money has become their prime objective and not the sport and communities that make this organisation. They have decided to take the first step in destroying this icon. There is absolutely no need for this to happen but they have decided to sell out to Sky. Can they not see and appreciate what we have? It will be the beginning of the end of a wonderful organisation. The people's organisation. The GAA. David Hennessy Sky deal endorses our national games  On Wednesday, I was listening when the usual 'it's a disgrace' brigade on the Joe Duffy Liveline show bemoaned the sale of 20 GAA games to Sky Sports for this year's championship. There has been a general hysteria surrounding this issue because Irish people will have to pay for an expensive Sky package to watch a handful of games. There seemed to be an outcry that the GAA had somehow reduced us all to an inevitable trip to the pub to watch our counties. Nonsense! This deal is a resounding endorsement of our game; one of the biggest sports carriers in the world has come knocking. The sole argument against this move has been money; people won't be able to afford Sky Sports, they say. They will, however, be able to go to the pub, and the complainers seemed to be lean towards the pub rather than going to games to support their teams, which would cost roughly the same. Not every GAA game is shown on television anyway, but radio keeps us up to speed. I have often listened to my county playing on local radio because the game was not offered on TV.  Forget about the GAA's spin of wanting to bring the sport to the diaspora, this Sky Sports deal is plain old business, and extremely shrewd business too. Sky Sports has grown viewership and interest in the NFL and Super League in Britain, and there is every reason to believe the GAA will see an increase in participation in the UK. This will only serve to increase interest across the water, an increase in TV rights money from Sky, and, subsequently, more funding for hard-pressed clubs.  If this deal makes people go to one or two more games a year, then there can only be one winner in all of this: our native sports. An amateur sport filling an 80,000-capacity stadium being beamed on Sky Sports – this is to be celebrated.  Justin Kelly Sunday Indo Sport 
