sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    August 10 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/amateur-players-face-professional-problems-26076723.html }
Our GAA correspondent investigates the possible effects of the new anti-doping programme SHORTLY after the end of tomorrow's Tipperary-Wexford Guinness All-Ireland hurling semi-final, two players can expect a tap on the shoulder. Whether high on victory or desolate in defeat, they will be taken to a specially-prepared room and instructed to produce at least 75mls of urine. They must do in full view of a stranger (the doping control officer) and, under rule, are required to be "undressed from mid-waist to mid-thigh". The stranger will make a preliminary test on the sample to check the PH and specific gravity. If the readings are not satisfactory, the player must produce again. If the sample is OK, it will be divided in two and poured into special containers. The stranger will then take his leave and the sample prior to sending it away for analysis. Welcome to the GAA world of 2001, where amateur players involved in a domestic sport will, from tomorrow, be eligible for the same drug-testing procedures as Bulgarian weight-lifters, Tour de France cyclists and Chinese athletes. It comes as part of the Irish Sports Council's anti-doping programme and has the official, if rather worried, backing of the GAA. It's not that the GAA believe its players are injecting behind the dressing-room wall or chewing performance enhancers on their way home from training. No, their real fear is that some player will unwittingly take a substance which is on the banned list, test positive and face a year's suspension while also carrying the stigma of being a cheat and a drug-user. A positive test will have grave implications for the player, his family, his job and the GAA in general. Whatever the circumstances, a player who fails the test is branded for life. "Couldn't happen to me sure I take nothing other than the odd cold remedy or cough mixture," will be the response of most players. Press the panic button. Do you know what's in those mixtures? And about that inhaler? The wrong one could leave your reputation wrecked for life. And as for food supplements, be very, very careful. The introduction of drug testing in the GAA may be all very routine for the Irish Sports Council. It brings the country's biggest sports organisation neatly into line with other bodies and will look well on the annual report. From a GAA perspective, it's fraught with dangers, not least because of the vast numbers of players involved in hurling and football. It involves a massive education programme to bring home to players the peril of taking even the mildest cough remedy without checking if any of the ingredients are on the banned list. It places a massive responsibility on team doctors, the vast majority of whom are giving their services free of charge. "My fear is that some innocent player will get caught out and find his name all over the papers. Players are going to have to be very careful about inhalers, cold remedies, cough mixtures and food supplements. Check what's in them before you use them and if you're still unclear, talk to your doctor," said Dr Con Murphy, long-time medical officer to Cork teams. Extensive lists of banned substances are provided as part of the anti-doping code but are written in a language understood only by the medical profession. Try this, for example. "All imidazole preparations are acceptable for topical use. Vasoconstrictors may be administered with local anaesthetic agents. Topical preparations of adrenaline and phenylephrine are permitted." Among the substances listed as banned are: "fluoxymesterone, metandienone, 19-norandrostenedione and androstenediol". They are scarcely the subject of regular discussion after training but, as and from tomorrow, players will have to be chemical experts or risk suspension, embarrassment and shame. The official word from the GAA is that they are happy to be part of the anti-doping programme but, in reality, they are fearful of its implications. They could, of course, have refused to sign up, but that would have led to accusations that they were hiding something. It would also have resulted in state funding being withheld so, in reality, the GAA had no option but to come on line. There is a degree of anger among GAA players that, despite being amateurs in a sport with virtually no international dimension, they will be like professional stars. "These regulations were drawn up by highly-paid professionals acting for other highly-paid professionals in the Sports Council," said one leading footballer. "I'll come off the pitch some Sunday and be ordered into a room by someone I've never seen before and told to produce a urine sample. "The tester is being paid mileage to turn up at the venue and a fee for the day and his job is to watch me having a pee and then send it off to see if there was something illegal in a cough mixture which I had to buy for myself. The whole thing is mad. Amateur players shouldn't be treated like this, certainly not in sports where drug-taking would serve no useful purpose." Dr Una May, head of the Sports Council's anti-doping unit, said that GAA players were no different to the vast majority of other Irish sportspeople. "We have very few professionals in Irish sport. Of all the sports bodies who have signed up to the anti-doping code, most of their performers are amateurs, the same as GAA players," she said. She feels that GAA players should be happy to see drug-testing introduced and believes that once they get used to the procedure, it will run very smoothly. "Naturally, it takes time to get used to anything new but there is nothing for GAA players to be worried about, once they are sensible. Not everything on the medical shelf contains banned substances. It's a question of being careful and, if in doubt, checking. This can work to everybody's benefit in the long run," said Dr May. Perhaps, but in the short term, there is a degree of concern over whether or not players, and indeed team doctors, are adequately briefed. Dr Stephen Bowe, medical advisor to the Wexford hurling team, said that the new regulations would place a big responsibility on doctors, who would clearly be in the firing line if anything went wrong. He is worried too about players being innocently caught out after taking something they thought was harmless. "It could impact on a player's job. However innocent he might be, people will still draw their own conclusions. I would be very surprised if any GAA player was deliberately taking performance-enhancing drugs but now that the strict regulations apply, they will have to be very careful with everything they take, even for colds and coughs," he said. Former GAA President, Mick Loftus, said that he hoped common sense would apply and that players would be given time to get used to the regulations. "We don't want a situation where a lad gets done for taking something totally innocently. It will take time to get them used to the fact that they have to check what's in everything they take," he said. Kilkenny County Board secretary, Pat Dunphy, said that he believed the regulations were taking the GAA up a dangerous path and that more time should be given to educating players before launching the programme. "I doubt very much if there is any problem with illegal drugs in the GAA. We have got to be very careful after all, we're dealing with amateur players. I feel we may be rushing into it too quickly. Naturally, we're all opposed to drug-taking in sport, but we also have a duty to ensure that no player finds himself in trouble for taking some cough mixture in all innocence. "It's easy to say he should know better but lads have an awful lot on their minds, particularly at this time of year. I would have liked the introduction of the anti-doping programme put back until next year and, in the meantime, have a nation-wide blitz to make players fully aware of what was ahead of them." While there is no guarantee that players will be tested tomorrow, the doping control officers will be entitled to start the programme, should they wish. And while players will be shown every courtesy, ignorance of the regulations will be no defence. A new, and disturbing, era has reached Gaelic Games. 
