sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee- Monday Focus 
    February 11 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/i-accuse-charlie-of-discrimination-against-gaa-26058043.html }
THE GAA suffered a major insult from the government last  week but I have yet to hear any GAA official make any comment about it. On Thursday Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy caused a big surprise when he announced major tax breaks for sportspeople. When they retire professional sportspeople who live in Ireland will be able to claim back tax paid on their earnings since 1990. The first 40 per cent of earnings over a 10-year period will be tax free and this money will be paid back in the form of a rebate when they retire. The biggest beneficiaries will be be high-profile people like Mick Kinane, Johnny Murtagh, Padraig Harrington and Catherina McKiernan but many others earning far less will also benefit. National League soccer players for instance will be beneficiaries when they retire and this move will help the plans of those clubs who are hoping to have full-time professional squads. The big losers in this scheme are GAA players. Because they are classed as amateur, Mr. McCreevy has ignored them. But this is a disgraceful and indeed discriminatory decision in relation to GAA players which the organisation at the top level should already have protested about. Charlie made some comments in justifying his decision about sports people bringing prestige to Ireland and providing great enjoyment to Irish people. All very admirable. But what group of sports stars in Ireland bring the greatest amount of satisfaction to the greatest number of Irish people? What group of sports performers bring great happiness and joy, attract the largest crowds and generate the largest amount of revenue each year? The answer to all these questions is of course the county players who do more every year to provide excitement, prestige and identity for more people in this country than any other group. Amazingly, they have been excluded from Mr. McCreevy's largesse simply because they are amateur. Included, however in the golden circle by the Minister are people from sports such as tennis, swimming, squash, badminton, cycling and boxing among others. Good luck to them all, but how many professionals are there in some of these sports? GAA players have been discriminated against, it is as simple as that. The Minister had an excellent idea but like many a politician before him, destroyed it by blatant discrimination against the largest sporting section. Not alone that but by his action he has provided a major recruiting tool for those sports which are directly in competition with the GAA for young peoples loyalty, most particularly rugby and soccer. A talented young man aged from 16 to 20 who is good at more than one sport will certainly be swayed towards rugby or soccer because of the financial perks which have now been enhanced by this latest tax break. Already in recent years there have been several examples of intercounty players switching to rugby because they could earn sums like £15,000 to £25,000 for playing in the All-Ireland League. The amateur status excuse for discriminating against GAA players is just a red herring, a species which is very plentiful in Irish political waters. If the will was there to reward GAA intercounty players for the contribution they make to Irish sporting life every year, it would be perfectly feasible to give them the same tax break as the professionals. It could be done simply by applying the same level of tax break to a percentage of the GAA players earned income from his everyday job. So if a GAA player was earning £400 a week then 40pc of his gross earnings should enjoy the same tax rebate on his retirement as is being applied to Padraig Harrington or Mick Kinane. This is a fool-proof system which is not open to abuse. Surely a D.J. Carey or Padraic Joyce is entitled to get equal treatment as Eddie Irvine or Brian O'Driscoll. The GAA player makes a greater personal sacrifice for his sport because in addition to putting in the same level of preparation as the O'Driscolls of this world he does that on top of holding down a full time job. For that reason if tax rebates were going to be handed out to outstanding sportspeople, then GAA players, rather than been ignored, should have been first in line because the personal sacrifice demanded of them in order to reach the top is greater than the professionals who can devote all their time to their sport. Since the GAA is so paranoid about professionalism they now have a chance to do something positive for players without threatening their beloved amateur status. They can ensure that the tax break is made available to GAA players in the above manner. That would achieve two things: the players would be getting fair play in the Irish sporting scene and the GAA would get the present controversy about paying players of the agenda. I hope the fact that the GAA are getting £60m for Croke Park does not mean that they are afraid to protest vehemently to the government about this disgraceful decision. And to think that I have team photograph from my UCD days showing a UCD Intermediate team with which I was involved including a smiling C. McCreevy (Kildare) at the end of the back row, on the right naturally. Where did you go wrong Charlie? eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
