sport gaa
{  
    February 14 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/motions-committee-could-undermine-presidents-position-25999699.html }
THE GAA has faced, and faced down, many controversies since its foundation and very often has come out of them stronger than before. Many of the controversies in the GAA were frivolous, often caused by the incompetence of an official, referee or player which was magnified by the media and inadequately dealt with by GAA officials. However, if the wrong decision is taken tomorrow night in relation to the motions from 10 counties regarding the possibility of opening up Croke Park for soccer and rugby then the GAA will have engineered one of the greatest self-administered blows in the 121-year history of the organisation. The body which has the power to do this is one that was never heard about by 99 per cent of GAA members until one year ago. It is called the Motions Committee and consists of all living former GAA presidents plus the current president Seán Kelly and the Director General Liam Mulvihill. This group has the task each year prior to the Annual Congress of examining motions submitted by the various counties to see if they are technically in order to go before the 300-plus delegates at what is on effect the AGM of the GAA. For as long as I can remember this Motions Committee's work was largely a formality because they rarely interfered with these motions. But all that changed last year when the committee effectively removed all the motions relevant to the opening of Croke Park through changes in Rule 42 by declaring them to be technically flawed. At that time the decision caused grave unrest and indeed great anger among rank and file GAA members who had never heard of this Motions Committee until them. And at a Special GAA Congress held last autumn it was agreed that if a similar situation ever arose again the onus was on the Motions Committee to tell the counties with motions deemed inadequate technically how to rectify them. Eleven counties submitted motions re Rule 42 this year. Every one of them was declared illegal by the Motions Committee and sent back but with instructions that were, to say the least, lacking in clarity. Counties were only given a few days to get them rectified. Now the counties have all returned the motions altered, as they thought, adequately. If the committee again throws out these motions then the GAA is facing a major constitutional crisis such as it has rarely encountered in its long history. There is no doubt that some counties will seek legal redress in order to ensure their motions are on the Congress agenda and with the GAA's record in the High Court in recent years the chances of counties succeeding must be substantial. But as far as the ordinary GAA members, officials and players are concerned this affair is an insult. The GAA has always prided itself on being ultra-democratic and I could list you hundreds of GAA officials who I have heard over the years proclaiming that the smallest club in Ireland can present a motion at the local county convention and get it onto the Congress agenda. This catch cry was always presented in a way that implied that no other organisation could provide such a gesture in democracy and that it proved the GAA was not run by a small clique of officers, many of whom were in power for 20, 30, 40 or 50 years, or more. Like most catch-all claims in the GAA it is a load of rubbish as this latest controversy proves. Some of these ex-presidents began their GAA political careers 50 years ago or more and many of them served the GAA well. But up until now GAA presidents always faded from the scene when they retired, presumably on the basis that they had their period of power and the president of the day should be given his head to guide the GAA as he saw fit for his term. However, this unwritten rule has been blown apart this year and last. There is no doubt that the action of the past presidents has seriously undermined the authority of the current holder of the office, Seán Kelly. He and the office of presidency were humiliated last year when the Croke Park motions were shafted. But if it happens again this year then the position of president of the GAA will be undermined completely. Some of the former presidents clearly resent Kelly's outspoken support for the opening of Croke Park even before he was elected. They seem determined to put Kelly back in his box for having the temerity to speak out in this manner. Too often in the past GAA presidents spoke out of both sides of their mouth at the same time as 'effectively' as the real politicians of this country ever did. But Kelly spoke according to his own convictions without any ambiguity and this seems to have incensed some of his predecessors who have turned upon him with a vengeance. One wonders where the true loyalty of these ex-presidents lies nowadays - to the GAA itself and its president or to their own narrow views of how the GAA should operate in the 21st century. The question of whether Croke Park should be opened up for other sports is a controversial one with strong and genuinely held arguments on both sides. But the vast majority of GAA members are anxious that the matter be debated at Congress, a decision taken and then let the GAA get on with its ordinary business. And whatever the decision the GAA will be united behind it as that is the GAA way of doing things as was shown in the removal of Rule 27 in relation to playing or watching 'foreign games' in 1971 and Rule 21 relating to British soldiers and RUC members more recently. What is causing massive resentment among ordinary GAA people is the attempt by the Motions Committee to stifle debate which makes the GAA a laughing stock around the country vis-a-vis sporting and other organisations. For what it is worth, I would guess at this stage that a motion to remove Rule 42 completely would not be passed by Congress because it requires a two-thirds majority. However, a motion to bring in a temporary derogation of the rule for, say, three years while Lansdowne Road is being refurbished would probably get through. I personally know and respect most of the past presidents but I find it hard to believe that they are so easily misled on this issue or can be so out of touch with the great body of GAA members who want this issue resolved at Congress. Nor can I understand how they cannot appreciate the colossal damage their actions so far are doing to the organisation that they once were so proud to lead.  Eugene McGee
  Monday Focus E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
