sport gaa
{ Dermot Crowe 
    November 19 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/theyre-talking-about-money-26418730.html }
NEGOTIATIONS between the GAA and GPA over the issue of player grants resume in Croke Park tomorrow with up to ?5m in Government funding available if they can agree a deal. Minister for Arts, Sport and Tourism John O'Donoghue contacted the GPA on Friday to offer assurances the Government is committed to the endeavour and firmly dismissed charges of a fudge. Dessie Farrell, chief executive of the GPA, said he had spoken to the minster by telephone and was more confident that the Government wasn't passing the buck. Last weekend, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern revealed that additional money would be made available to the GAA for infrastructural projects on the basis that other Association revenue be diverted towards player remuneration. Speaking at the GPA annual awards he said that the matter was one for the GAA to decide, but that the Government was supportive of the GPA's campaign and willing to make the funds available to facilitiate it. The GAA was also seeking clarification from the Government on Ahern's comments, but remained tight-lipped ahead of tomorrow's meeting with the GPA. The GAA's incoming player welfare officer, Pauric Duffy, declined to comment. Duffy takes up office in early January and has joined the GAA's negotiating team, but said he needed to wait until the new year before he felt qualified to comment publicly. 'I always said that we were not going to get this resolved immediately'  Nickey Brennan Initially, there was some concern within the GPA over the Government's stance, with players fearing further delays and obfuscation of the process. O'Donoghue's intervention on Friday is said to have helped ease their concerns and they see the ball firmly in the GAA's court. "What we don't want to see happen here, and what would incense us all, is if there is a fudge on the GAA's behalf," said Farrell. "We want to know whether they can live with this or whether they are not happy at all. "Ultimately, somebody needs to take responsibility. Now I think the Government have made a compromise, they are making the money available to the GAA, and it's up to the GAA to state their position. Let us all know and let us all know quickly." One of the GAA's main concerns is likely to be the possibility that the Government will not be able to guarantee support for player welfare, albeit indirectly, in future years, leaving the Association to pick up the tab. But O'Donoghue is said to be making strong commitments on that score. Even though the money is marked for infrastructure there is a clear public link being made as to its knock-on purpose. Were that to be withdrawn it would cause deep resentment and reflect negatively on the Government that made the decision. It's believed that the Government does not see any reason why a mechanism cannot be established by the GAA to avail of the funding. The eagerness to offer the GPA assurances that it is anxious to see the project completed comes at the end of a week when players had doubts about its commitment and threatened to run inter-county stars as independent election candidates in marginal constituencies. But the GAA may not be able to move as swiftly as the GPA desires, with president Nickey Brennan saying that there is "plenty of heavy subject matter to go through". The GAA president claims his relationship with the GPA is "pretty healthy" despite frosty beginnings. Brennan set out his stall at Congress, replacing Seán Kelly's more pacifist rhetoric with an unequivocal soundtrack that was sweet music to the ears of traditionalists fearful of an assault on the GAA's amateur code. He also said at the time that the GPA would have to convince the GAA that its player grant scheme could work. In the meantime, the GAA has submitted its own proposal to the Government which backed a players' fund rather than individual performance grants. The GPA says it is open to alternatives to its own model advocating a tiered scheme covering the 32 counties, drawing down high performance sports grants for players through the Irish Sports Council. There are three tiers being proposed, with grants ranging from ?1,000 at the bottom level to ?2,000 at the top. The overall cost to the exchequer is estimated at less than ?4m. But money is not the big issue. Trying to find a compromise acceptable to the GAA's sensibilities provides the main challenge. Brennan said he was now more assured that pay-for-play wasn't the GPA's hidden agenda and both sides say that relations are businesslike. "We have met on at least four occasions, we met with them a week ago," he said. "They have said that pay-for-play or any form of professionalism is not their aim and, in fairness, I am taking them at their word." He added, however, that comments by Brian Corcoran in recent days had seemed to contradict this, suggesting that some distrust remains and negotiations aren't fireproof. "I think in six months I can be satisfied that we have moved a fair bit of the way. I can accept that there is an impatience there. I always said that we were not going to get this resolved immediately." The GPA, according to Farrell, cannot wait indefinitely and he stresses that this is the GAA's best chance of finding a happy medium and avoiding possible confrontation down the road. "There's still a lot to be played out, but I think that we are very much heading into extra time. We've campaigned on this for four years at this stage. "What surprised me is that the players have a very good grasp of this and the nuances of it and where it's at. We are not advocating pay-for-play, I have said that categorically, but people must realise that the mindset of inter-county players is changing." He said the GPA was looking forward to working with Duffy, whom they feel will have a good appreciation of their needs and the imperatives at play. "Pauric Duffy will have a significant role in this and I think he is very pragmatic and has his finger on the pulse. I would see him as being instrumental in helping to bring this to pass in some shape or form." Labour spokesman on Arts, Sport and Tourism, Jack Wall TD, said that the GAA must act now and not to be seen to "sit on the fence". Labour was one of the main political parties to support the player grant scheme this year. He was concerned that the Government's approach to finding a solution would be "open to interpretation" by the GAA and this could lead to problems. 'We are not advocating pay-for-play, I have said that categorically' Dessie Farrell "I would rather that it was a clear-cut decision. People need to realise that players today are professionals in every sense except they don't get a cheque at the end of the week. They are giving up their prime years to entertain everyone else, giving up career opportunities, family life, and I would see them entitled to some reward. I know they are getting enjoyment, but it's gone beyond that now to a different level. "I think there is a huge responsibility on the GAA to meet with the GPA and to address it in some way. The major games provide the GAA with the core finance used to develop the Association and the people helping them to achieve that are the players. They really have to do something. "It's not an issue of deciding who is right or wrong. The big thing to do is the get everyone round the table and come up with a solution. We are moving into a new era now and the GAA has to face the future." The GAA will be having meetings with Government officials separate to meeting with the GPA although the players' body would prefer trilateral talks. The intensity of those discussions will be ratcheted up in the coming weeks. 
