sport gaa
{  
    March 23 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaa-lose-war-in-winters-of-discontent-26194152.html }
IT used to said that GAA officials were the most conservative of all sports with regard to change but in recent times this view has received a few knocks. The decision to alter the format of the All-Ireland hurling championship was one such example. Another has been the sea-change in attitude with regard to live television. For donkey's years GAA officials avoided live coverage of their big games like the plague. It would hit the attendances, we were told. It would also wipe out club games taking place all over Ireland on the same day. So for the seventies, eighties and most of the nineties, while other sports were quick to avail of live television and gain in popularity as a result, the GAA literally watched from the sidelines. But then when sponsorship of the All-Ireland championships arrived courtesy of Guinness and Bank of Ireland the pressure came for live television. TELEVISION coverage is an integral part of big-time sports sponsorship all over the world and the lure of the sponsors' money quickly propelled GAA officials into the live television mainstream. A toe-dipping exercise in the 1996 championship was a huge success, the coverage was augmented in 1997 and last week the GAA and RTE announced the most expansive programme ever of live coverage during the 1998 championships. The three-year deal is said to be worth £1 million to the GAA, which is chicken-feed in world terms, but in relation to RTE's overall sports budget is probably as much as could be expected. Twenty five matches are scheduled to be broadcast live between May and October with edited highlights also to be shown on Sunday and Monday nights. This is a very good deal, for RTE. It is also a good seal for Guinness and B of I. It is not a great deal for the GAA, however. Having all those games live in the summer months is fine but what about the remaining seven months of the year? If the GAA is serious about taking on the threat of televised soccer then the time to tackle soccer is in the winter. For the past 20 years the GAA has stood idly by and allowed soccer to dominate televised sport in this country from September to May. During all that time there was hardly ever a GAA game televised live, with the exception of St Patrick's Day. In the contest to win the sporting hearts and minds of young boys and girls the television set is the main battleground and there is no doubt that the GAA has lost that war lock, stock and barrel. Week after week and, for the past few years, day after day on Sky, Irish youngsters, and their parents, have been able to view soccer live on television each winter. Is it any wonder that thousands of boys have grown up with the perception that soccer is more important than Gaelic or Hurling? There would be no shortage of suitable league games in the winter and one would only have to think of matches involving Kildare in Newbridge, Dublin in Parnell Park, Kerry in Tralee, Cavan in Breffni Park or Armagh in Armagh to appreciate the sort of excellent `television atmosphere' that could be generated at NFL games. No doubt there would still be GAA hard-liners who would object on the basis that attendances at other league games would be affected but this old chestnut has been completely debunked by recent live coverage no later than the club finals last Tuesday which drew a record crowd. WE are presuming here of course that RTE would be interested in televising such games which may be a big presumption. But even if they were not, the GAA should be prepared to PAY for live television on a year round basis. After all they are far and away the most popular in Ireland and they are the national games. Can you imagine any other country where the major national games would not feature on live television for seven months of the year? Instead of taking £1m off RTE for three years, the GAA would be better giving those games for nothing in return for a regular programme of live games over the winter period. The Munster Council is moving towards installing floodlights in some of their major grounds. When that happens it will clear the way for televised floodlit football on days other than Sunday. TnaG have been showing recordings of so-called lesser games on Sunday nights with great success. The arrival of TV3 may up the ante as regards competition in the television world and this could strengthen the hand of the GAA too. And if sponsorship is big-time in the GAA can Sky Television be far behind?  It should be a sobering thought for the GAA that, according to the authoritative Nielsen TV ratings for 1997, only four GAA games featured in the Top Ten sports events on television in that year. 
