sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee<br>Monday Focus</b></p><P> <b> eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
    April 17 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/victory-for-the-velvet-revolution-changes-spotlight-25990413.html }
AT 4.34 pm on Saturday Pauric Duffy, the Head Counter for the day, sneaked in behind the top table at the GAA Congress. AT 4.34 pm on Saturday Pauric Duffy, the Head Counter for the day, sneaked in behind the top table at the GAA Congress. There was a serious debate relating to some technical matter in progress when Duffy slipped a piece of paper in front of GAA president Seán Kelly. If you ever wondered how the demeanour of a condemned man changes when word comes through of a late pardon then Kelly's face was a good example of that when he read the numbers on that bit of paper: Tá - 227, Níl - 97. What had appeared an hour before to be a catastrophic defeat for the Kerry president, when it was announced that the Rule 42 motion would be decided by secret ballot, had turned into a magnificent triumph for the first president in modern times to lead the GAA from the front on a major issue - giving the Central Council the right to allow rugby and soccer in Croke Park, if asked. You could see a great load had been lifted off Kelly's shoulders, he became more animated and the 11 minutes that elapsed before he actually announced the vote result must have been the most enjoyable of his presidential career. Make no mistake, Saturday's decision was one of the most important ever made by a GAA Congress. That importance lies not so much in the actual decision to open the gates to other sports, but in the manner in which the GAA reached the decision. Only a few months ago motions to alter Rule 42 were headed for the scrapyard because a string of so-called powerful senior figures in the organisation had thrown their full weight against the idea. But then the worm started turning when ordinary club members here and there, and then everywhere, demanded that their voice be heard on Rule 42. Suddenly the movement spread like a prairie wildfire. Clubs met and instructed their County Board delegates to back the opening of Croke Park on a temporary basis while Landsdowne Road was being rebuilt. Previous bastions of GAA conservatism like Tipperary, Limerick, Waterford and Meath were swamped in the rush for change as the true voice of GAA Ireland was heard loud and clear. But the 'No' people had one vital shot left in their locker. Somehow they managed to get a decision that the vote on Rule 42 should be by secret ballot rather than a show of hands as was the case a few years ago when it lost by one vote. That seemed to be decisive as it was felt that some 'conscientious objectors' would vote contrary to their county's expressed wish. In the event very little of this seems to have happened and the result was a sweeping endorsement for changing Rule 42. This was an astonishing victory for democracy by GAA standards. Several past presidents led the speakers' list along with Ulster delegates against the motion but all to no avail. Indeed the over-the-top speech of at least one of them definitely helped the 'Yes' cause. Possibly the most effective speech for the motion was given near the finish by Wexford's Seán Quirke who said that he looked forward to seeing Wexford's Gordon D'Arcy playing for Ireland in Croke Park. And towards the end Phil Brady of Cavan put the whole thing in perspective when he said that counties who had been mandated to vote for change should go and do so and forget all the extraneous matters that had been brought up by the 'No' people. Before people get intoxicated by the euphoria of it all it should be pointed out that we have a long way to go before rugby, and particularly soccer internationals, will take place in Croker. Both those bodies now have to bite the bullet that has been aimed at the GAA for the past five years and make the hard decisions as to whether they want to ask the GAA to help them out. I can see rugby games there alright but I'm not so sure about soccer where there are as many die-hards in the soccer v GAA debate as there ever were on the GAA side. But maybe the voice of the grassroots people will take over from the 'blazer brigade' in soccer just as happened with the GAA on this issue. While the debate has been bitter within the GAA in recent months there will be no residual damage. The simple fact is that this was not a very important issue to the vast majority of GAA people. It only became a major issue when an army of non-GAA and even non-sportspeople took up the 'Open Croke Park' cause and made it a national issue. Whatever else can be said about the GAA they have mastered the art of disagreeing violently on issues but as soon as votes take place all sides coalesce back together for the common good of the organisation. That quality has served the GAA well going all the way back to Civil War politics. What will be interesting to observe in the coming months and years is whether the great Irish public who got so worked up in recent months about what the GAA should do in relation to Croke Park will now turn their attention to the FAI and the IRFU. There should be no misunderstanding about all this. The GAA have done their bit for sporting ecumenism, for good neighbourliness and the overall development of Irish sport in general. They did all that at great risk to their own organisation. But now the onus is very clearly on the FAI and the IRFU to match what the GAA has done. It is their job to seek to rent Croke Park and to negotiate rental deals, etc. It will be interesting to see if all these organisations who were so vocal in telling the GAA what to do, such as the Dublin Chamber of Commerce, will be as vigilant in encouraging the FAI and IRFU to do the right thing in relation to their international fixtures when Landsdowne Road becomes unavailable. Of course there are numerous hurdles to be crossed such as the absence of floodlights or even planning for them in Croke Park, the possibility of the stadium having to be revamped to comply with UEFA or FIFA crowd control regulations but these are all negotiable and the revenue from near full houses in Croke Park will be so far ahead of Landsdowne Road that money should not be a problem. Some GAA people will point out of course that Saturday's decision did not actually open Croke Park for soccer and rugby. All it did was to give the Central Council of the GAA, on which every county has a representative, the authority to rent out the ground if asked. But after Saturday's staggering vote it is inconceivable that Central Council would set out to frustrate the will of the vast majority of GAA people. The GAA took a giant, progressive step last Saturday which was the culmination of a velvet revolution among the 'ordinary' players and members of thousands of clubs in every corner of Ireland. Their achievement is as significant for the GAA as was the building of the magnificent Croke Park stadium itself. 
