sport gaa
{  
    April 30 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/players-for-sale-but-with-strings-attached-26117132.html }
By EUGENE McGEE   A SMALLISH advertisement in the appointments  supplement of last Thursday's Irish Independent may well  prove to be a landmark... A SMALLISH advertisement in the appointments supplement of last Thursday's Irish Independent may well prove to be a landmark in the history of the GAA. It was placed by some anonymous person or agency on behalf of the GAA and it was seeking to recruit a Commercial Agent. The GAA has had various commercial people working on its behalf for many years, most notably Dermot Power who has been so successful at selling the long-term seats and corporate boxes which have backboned the financing of the re-building of Croke Park. But this appointment is very different because in essence the person, or company, appointed will have the task of selling the top GAA players to commercial concerns. Yes folks, at long last the GAA has reached the stage where they will attempt to exploit the names of people like Trevor Giles, DJ Carey, Seamus Moynihan and Jamesie O'Connor. After several false starts, the Central Council finally endorsed recommendations from the Amateur Status Committee which clears the way for GAA players to endorse products. But as always with the GAA, it is not a straight-forward matter and all sorts of conditions will be applied. After several false starts, the Central Council finally endorsed recommendations from the Amateur Status Committee which clears the way for GAA players to endorse products. But as always with the GAA, it is not a straight-forward matter and all sorts of conditions will be applied. Nevertheless, we can still expect to see pictures of our best-known stars adorning billboards all over the country before the year is out. This development can be seen as another stage in the contest between Official GAA and the Gaelic Players Association (GPA) for the hearts and minds of our leading football and hurling stars. It is over two years since the Amateur Status report was actually ratified by the GAA's Annual Congress, but nothing much happened since ... until now. This development can be seen as another stage in the contest between Official GAA and the Gaelic Players Association (GPA) for the hearts and minds of our leading football and hurling stars. It is over two years since the Amateur Status report was actually ratified by the GAA's Annual Congress, but nothing much happened since ... until now. The GAA will maintain that it is purely a coincidence that they are taking steps to implement the report now, and that it has nothing to do with the arrival of the GPA. Be that as it may, the appointment of a commercial manager is imminent and it will now be interesting to see just how attractive the stars of hurling and football are to Corporate Ireland. THERE is no doubt that Corporate Ireland's reaction to the new Croke Park was extremely positive. Even the GAA itself was surprised at the ease with which corporate boxes, some costing up to £250,000, were sold in the new Cusack Stand. (It is still the `Cusack Stand' isn't it?) The sale of corporate boxes in the new Hogan Stand and the rebuilt Canal End has also gone very well, helped no doubt by the most buoyant economic era in the history of the country. But the big test will come when the new Commercial Agent starts to `sell' the big-name stars. For years now, pictures of soccer stars have been pasted on advertising hoardings all over Ireland, often promoting products that they probably never knew existed since most of these stars lived in Britain. Some years ago when Jack O'Shea, at the height of his career, tried to advertise cookers with back boilers - not unreasonable since he was a plumber - all hell broke loose in the GAA. And, of course, who can ever forget the attempts by scantily clad Kerry stars to advertise washing machines in the seventies? Some distinguished GAA officials choked on their cornflakes one Sunday morning when they opened their Sunday newspaper and saw a picture of half-naked Kerry players posing with a washing machine. When the GAA didn't collapse to its foundations that day, it never will. The Amateur Status Committee, which was chaired by former President Peter Quinn and included the current President Sean McCague, concluded from their research that the scope for even the biggest GAA stars to cash in on their fame through commercial endorsements is much more limited than is generally believed. They pointed out that other sports stars who had achieved international success for Ireland had not earned huge money from endorsements. But that argument has never been tested up to now and I will be very surprised if big money is not available to certain GAA players in the future. Or, at least there would be, if the GAA did not apply so many conditions. For instance, GAA players will not be allowed advertise any playing gear. Straight away they have removed the most obvious source of revenue from such companies as Nike, adidas, Puma, O'Neills, etc. The reason given by the GAA for this ban (that word keeps cropping up in a GAA context) is that such endorsements would create divisions within county panels if, for argument's sake, Dessie Farrell was advertising adidas football boots while the rest of the Dublin panel were wearing Puma boots. ANOTHER condition stipulates that individual players may not advertise products that are in direct competition with any relevant national, provincial or county sponsor, or even the player's own club sponsor. Now, that really is a mouthful! It means that GAA stars cannot have commercial deals with any of the Irish banking or finance organisations which compete with the big GAA sponsors such as Bank of Ireland or Allied Irish Banks. Neither will we see a GAA player advertising Carlsberg Lager as it will be seen as in opposition with Guinness who sponsor the All-Ireland hurling championship. When that exclusion clause is followed down the line it will eliminate a high proportion of the potential advertising sources for GAA players. One wonders how the GAA can reconcile that ruling with the fact that the Clare hurlers and footballers are sponsored by Eircell, while their Cork counterparts are sponsored by their rivals Esat, which incidentally is now owned by British Telecom. It seems there is one law for County Boards and another law for the players. Even when a GAA player does manage to get a commercial deal, his troubles are only starting. There are another set of rules as to how the commercial income is to be shared out. Believe it or not, the player will only get 50 per cent after the Commercial Agent takes his/her cut. The county team panel will get 20 per cent, the County Board 10 per cent, former players 10 per cent, and a hardship fund 10 per cent. Past history has shown that the GAA is a great organisation for making rules and for telling its members how to behave, but is very poor at enforcing those rules. I cannot see it being any different for this new commercial regime. For years, players have been getting backhanders for presenting medals, bringing cups to pubs and discos and for opening supermarkets. It is hard to see that changing. But at least now the leading GAA stars, whose names are known and respected throughout the country, will be able to cash in on their hard-won fame. And they'll be able to do it legally. It certainly will be a pleasant change to see pictures of leading GAA players on roadside hoardings in rural Ireland rather than highly paid British soccer stars. e-mail: emcgee@hotbot.com 
