sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee Page One Comment 
    April 18 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-croker-mess-embarrassing-26009051.html }
THERE are 39 weekends between last year's All-Ireland football final and the end of June  2004, a period of nine months. I reckon Croke Park, one of the world's top ten sports stadiums, remains closed on 34 of those weeks. There is just one event between October  1 and May 1 (30 weeks) and only four more in the two months of May and June 2004. It  must be the favourite stadium THERE are 39 weekends between last year's All-Ireland football final and the end of June 2004, a period of nine months. I reckon Croke Park, one of the world's top ten sports stadiums, remains closed on 34 of those weeks. There is just one event between October 1 and May 1 (30 weeks) and only four more in the two months of May and June 2004. It must be the favourite stadium for migrating birds anywhere in the world. Seldom have I met as many angry GAA people as during the past couple of weeks since it was announced none of yesterday's league semi-finals would be played in Croke Park. If ever there is an award for insensitive decision-making in Irish sport, this GAC decision will certainly be favourite to win. Over the past six months, at least up to Mr Keane's second coming, the availability of Croke Park for various sporting activities has been the biggest talking point in Irish sport. When the GAA made a laughing stock of themselves on St Patrick's Day (again) by preventing thousands of their own followers getting into the stadium for the All-Ireland club finals on time, the embarrassment was tangible. The predictable jokes about the GAA not just wanting to keep out the soccer and rugby crowd but also their own followers seemed slightly funny at the time. But when it was announced that none of the league semi-finals would be played in Croke Park then the joke quickly became a focal point for intense anger. The ordinary GAA person just cannot understand why a double bill was not played at headquarters yesterday instead of dispersing the four games over four different venues. A lot of people are totally frustrated with this decision. Many GAA followers have yet to watch a game in Croke Park. For one reason or another, many have not been able to get to summer championship games and would have been delighted to get an opportunity to visit the stadium yesterday. They could not believe their ears when it was announced that Croke Park was to remain closed yet again. This strange carry-on would indicate that there is no cohesive decision-making process regarding the use of Croke Park by the GAA at the highest level. The right hand does not seem to know what the left is doing. Croke Park is the biggest marketing tool available to the GAA. People of all ages want to see games there because going to Croke Park is an event in itself, regardless of the importance of the games. But several of the GAA'spower-brokers clearly do not understand that. In February we had the Dublin County Board insisting on playing All-Ireland champions Tyrone in Parnell Park, thus depriving thousands of children, their teachers and parents of a visit to Croke Park. Yet some Dublin GAA people are constantly whinging about how they are neglected by the GAA and need more promotion, etc, etc. When Dublin football was thriving in the 1960s and '70s they played all their league games in Croker. If the GAA accepts that Croke Park is its principal marketing tool then GAA games should be staged there as often as possible regardless of the economics of the event. We are constantly being told that a crowd in excess of 30,000 is required to break even on a Croke Park fixture. Nobody I know in the GAA accepts this, nor do I. Because if that is correct then Croke Park should never have been built to its present dimensions. The idea that you could have a crowd of 30,000 at a sports event in Ireland and lose money on it seems ludicrous when admission charges start at ?10 or more. Like any business, Croke Park needs to drastically cut its operating Continued from Page One costs if it is to survive commercially. Had Galway v Tyrone and Kildare v Offaly been a double bill in Croke Park yesterday, the crowd would have been 40,000 at least. Whoever in Croke Park prejudges attendances is hardly in a position to argue with that, judging by their pre-match estimates of the recent club finals. Of course, to ensure attendances like this nowadays some pre-match promotion is necessary but that is an alien concept to most GAA officers and bodies. The GAA has never promoted its own games because they felt they never had to. Arrogance is the word for that. When sponsors like Coca-Cola, Guinness or Bank of Ireland applied promotion techniques the results were astonishing, particularly for the Ireland v Australia games. The result of all this messing by the GAA is that Croke Park, which should be the organisation's greatest promotional asset, is rapidly becoming its greatest source of embarrassment. Rugby and soccer people are barred by rule. But now GAA people, players and spectators, are barred as well by fixing so few games there. Those who are against changing Rule 42 have been saying in recent months that it would be better to have more GAA players playing in Croke Park than those awful 'not real Irish' soccer or rugby types. I wonder what they have to say today when up to 80 footballers and 40,000 spectators were denied the chance to use Croke Park yesterday? On Saturday evening I watched Tyrone play Longford in the All-Ireland Vocational Schools final before a few hundred fans in Pearse Park. In a few weeks, the All-Ireland colleges football and hurling finals will be played before meagre crowds at modest provincial venues. Does the GAA really believe that shutting out these prestige schools finals is promoting the GAA among young people? How come the Leinster schools rugby finals always take place in Lansdowne Road? Why not a 'Second Level Day' in Croke Park where a whole series of finals could take place? And isn't it a very a sad day for the GAA when distinguished All-Ireland and national league champions Tyrone are not considered good enough to draw a crowd to Croke Park? Truly, as regards the use of Croke Park, the GAA does not to seem to know its posterior from its elbow. 
