sport gaa
{ MARTIN BREHENY 
    April 13 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/was-berties-60m-a-lure-to-open-or-close-croke-park-26090058.html }
Was Bertie's £60m a lure to open or close Croke Park?  IF it's the intention of Taoiseach Bertie Ahern to eliminate Croke Park from his super highway to Stadium I IF it's the intention of Taoiseach Bertie Ahern to eliminate Croke Park from his super highway to Stadium Ireland in Abbotstown then he has shown himself to be the sharpest, most cunning politician of all time. Alternatively, if he is trying to nudge the GAA towards opening Croke Park to other sports he has made the biggest miscalculation since a BBC weather expert laughingly told viewers to ignore the grim predictions of an old woman in Brighton that a severe hurricane was imminent. Six hours later, half the country was flattened. The Taoiseach and the Tanaiste, Mary Harney, may well be surrounded by super slick advisers, but if any of them believe that the GAA is going to be bullied into opening Croke Park and other grounds around the country in return for a £60m grant they under-estimate the pride, independence and determination of an Association which can be coaxed but never forced. That's why the Taoiseach's performance this week has been unfathomably confusing. If his decision to grant £60m to the GAA was designed to persuade enough of the Congress delegates into voting against opening Croke Park, he succeeded. After all, economics was the principal reason why momentum grew towards renting Croke Park to others sports. With a promise of £60m, there was no longer a financial imperative to open Croke Park. GAA President, Sean McCague, gave no indication as to how he felt Congress should vote but his comments on Friday night that the Government grant, allied to the maximisation of commercial opportunities, "guaranteed that Croke Park will never be a financial burden to the GAA" increased the 'no' vote. Said one delegate who arrived at Congress waiting to be swayed by the debate: "Once I heard about the £60m grant, I decided to vote 'no'. I was reluctantly going to vote 'yes' in order to increase our income by renting Croke Park, but that was no longer necessary because of the grant." Those who believe that the Taoiseach is unstoppable in his determination to proceed with all aspects of Stadium Ireland including an 80,000 seater stadium were convinced that the financial carrot was designed to remove the GAA as competition for Abbotstown. After all, if the GAA had voted last Saturday to open Croke Park, how could the Government justify building another 80,000 seater stadium less than ten miles away? By Sunday lunchtime, interference began to flash across a previously clear picture. Mr Ahern went on RTE's This Week programme and told Gerald Barry that he was 'disappointed' by the GAA decision and talked in vague terms about sports sharing facilities all over the country. By Monday, the PDs had dashed onto the pitch to query the validity of the £60m grant. Nothing had been formally decided and, as far as they were concerned, any grant to the GAA would be dependent on other grounds being opened up to all sports. When questioned on the matter in the Dáil, the Taoiseach first apologised to his PD partners for a breakdown in communications, then talked of sports organisations sharing facilities for the good of all before later admitting that the GAA could not be forced into opening its grounds. Confused? The GAA certainly were, which explains why apart from a short statement on Tuesday stating that it had "a clear and firm commitment in regard to funding," they said nothing in public. "There is a time to talk and a time to stay silent and this is shut-up time," commented a senior GAA source. "We have a no-strings agreement with the Government for a £60m grant. That's good enough for us and until such time as we hear any differently we are operating on the basis of getting £15m a year for the next three years with a top-up £15m at the end," he said. While the GAA are correct not to become involved in the political in-fighting between Fianna Fail and the PDs, they have to face up to their own internal disharmony. The chaotic voting system which prevailed at last Saturday's Congress was unacceptable. Even more importantly, an organisation which prides itself on its democracy disenfranchised thousands of its members by not holding formal meetings at club level to mandate Congress delegates. Several County Boards left it up to the Congress delegates to make up their minds on the day. That was a basic denial of the ordinary club member's rights and, if challenged, wouldn't have a legal leg to stand on. This was one of the most important decisions facing the GAA for many years, yet many of its members were never asked for their opinions. That is nothing short of a disgrace. Those who voted against opening Croke Park feel that they are being depicted unfairly and that their views are being drowned out in the clamour for change. In fairness, they can argue with a degree of justification, it would appear, that if Croke Park were opened up, it could lead to demands for club and county grounds to be made available to other sports since that seems to be the position of the Government. Opening all grounds around the country can never be acceptable to the GAA since it would lead to over-use, local conflict and bitterness. Plus, of course, the GAA would be sharing assets which it acquired through hard work and good husbandry over one hundred years with rivals who, in the main, put no national infrastructure in place. One of the great ironies of the latest saga is the manner in which the GAA's decision, albeit clumsily taken, has been used by the Association's critics. Radio phone-in shows were jammed by callers during the week, complaining about giving the GAA an £60m grant towards an £180m stadium which, when completed, will be the envy of Europe. Yet the airwaves were strangely silent when the FAI were promised £45m for building nothing. When completed, the re-development of Croke Park will have yielded £20m in VAT payments alone while generating £150m of economic activity. Said a senior GAA insider: "We're the only ones doing any building. We're the only ones who have put an infrastructure in place right throughout the country, most of which was delivered by the hard work of local people working for their community, so we feel well entitled to the grant. "Clearly, the Fianna Fail wing of the Government recognise this and, as for the PDs, we couldn't care less because they have only minuscule support among GAA members. They know that hence their high-minded approach towards us." It's difficult to see clearly right now amid the haze and smoke generated over the last seven days. But when it all settles, the odds are that the GAA will get their £60m grant for Croke Park with no strings attached and, following a change of rule at next year's Congress, the ground will be opened to rugby and soccer. The majority of GAA members favour a policy change. Outsiders should leave them to get on with it because any attempt to bully the GAA will only lead to a defiant stand-off. That's in nobody's interest. 
