sport gaa
{ Damian Lawlor 
    October 20 2013 01:14 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/damian-lawlor-dont-penalise-sport-for-this-mess-were-in-29674413.html }
IRONIC, isn't it, that in the year of The Gathering Ireland's youth continue to leave in their droves for London, North America and Australia. Almost all of the London team that played in this year's Connacht final, for instance, moved to cross-channel building sites as the Irish economy floundered. Perhaps their families and love of GAA were the last remaining binds to this country but still the Irish government persists in penalising sporting bodies, even though they are doing as much as anyone to keep young people at home. Sporting organisations learned in last week's Budget that they will get less money next year than they got this year. The GAA, IRFU and FAI are also facing the prospect of a massive hike in commercial rates payable to Dublin City Council on the capital's two large stadiums, Croke Park and the Aviva. This rise comes at a time when the Government should be helping sports organisations to bid for and stage major international sporting events. Instead of hammering them with rates increases and spending cuts, the State should be looking at establishing an agency in conjunction with the Department of Foreign Affairs, or even Fáilte Ireland. When the GAA staged last year's Notre Dame versus Old Navy fixture, it facilitated a deposit of €100m into Irish coffers. Such potential should be harnessed not hindered. "We can only look at this from our point of view and we can't speak for others but the GAA employs over 300 games development officers and that costs us over €4 million a year," says one leading official. "We receive funding of around €3.59 million from the Irish Sports Council but all of that money is put to hugely significant use in the areas of coaching and games development. We invest in around 14,500 youth teams – 1,500 under 21 and 4,500 adult teams. Our VHI Cúl camps are massively popular and 90,000 young children participate in those every summer. "Our re-investment culture grows from there. Around 6,000 young people between the ages of 14 and 17 are involved in hurling and football development squads. We try to encourage and develop these youngsters and invest in education programmes every bit as much as we foster volunteers. In the last year alone, around 50,000 people have been trained to come on board." At national level, around half of the GAA's revenue levels emanate from gate receipts with a further 21 per cent of its revenue coming from commercial sources, although that figure has dropped slightly during the recession. In other words, the GAA earns most of its own crust and then pumps 78 per cent of it back into the association. The remaining 22 per cent of revenue is used to run games at central level and to administrate. At a time when rural Ireland as we know it is changing – and not always for the better – the GAA is often the only beacon of hope in communities ravaged by unemployment and emigration. The sponsorship deal between AIG and the Dublin County Board was a huge boost to the Irish sporting industry, showing that an amateur body is capable of attracting a key backer at a time when corporate Ireland has suffered a 28 per cent slowdown in the sponsorship market. Much of that money will be distributed back into games around Dublin and perhaps facilities development and the results will be there for all to see. At national level, the GAA has spent more than €3 billion on its infrastructure in recent years, funding three-quarters of all projects themselves. Clearly, by asking sporting bodies like the GAA to endure a four-fold increase in their commercial rates, not enough emphasis has been placed on the economic value of the GAA. Over two million people attend championship matches. A report by the Dublin Chamber of Commerce 10 years ago found that All-Ireland finals were worth €20m to the city of Dublin. It's safe to assume that a semi-final alone would be worth that much to the city now. Indeed, research indicates that this year's Mayo-Dublin football final brought in €30m to the city's businesses. An example of that would be 4,000 Dublin jerseys being sold in the three weeks before the final. Throw in the All-Ireland hurling final and the replay and you're talking about an €80m injection into the capital's finances for just three games. Across the country, county boards are ploughing their own furrow, plotting ways of improving their revenue streams which will subsequently boost local coffers. The Limerick board plan to hold concerts at the Gaelic Grounds and while the target is to clear their €755,000 debt, they will also generate millions for local businesses. Last week, Tipperary chairman Seán Nugent admitted his board were thinking along similar lines with Semple Stadium long since establishing its concert credentials. All this work shouldn't be ignored yet GAA player grants have been delayed and then slashed despite an independent report, compiled by Indecon for the GPA in late 2010, arguing that GAA players and inter-county fixtures generated €193.3m per annum for the Irish economy. The report also highlighted the value of GAA players when it came to encouraging youngsters to play sport, promoting volunteerism and helping charities in localities. And yet the GAA looks at the bigger picture. They have already told the IRFU that they will make stadiums available for a potential Rugby World Cup bid here in either 2023 or 2027. Croke Park, Páirc Uí Chaoimh, Fitzgerald Stadium, the Gaelic Grounds, Pearse Stadium and Casement Park have all been earmarked as possible venues, with Croke Park being targeted as the potential World Cup final venue. So, rather than penalising the FAI, IRFU and GAA, maybe the Government should be identifying possible ways to get them working closer together for the country's benefit. Sporting bodies, and the GAA in particular, shouldn't be penalised for the mess we're in. They are one of the few hopes we have of escaping our troubles. Sunday Independent 
