sport gaa
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    March 12 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/bmonday-focusb-time-is-now-for-gaa-to-demand-its-payback-26092996.html }
THE events of the past few days in relation to Stadium Ireland have profound ramifications for the GAA. With the Republic of Ireland soccer team providing the anchor tenancy of the Abbotstown National Stadium it seems the project will definitely go ahead. This in turn means that rugby internationals will also be played in Abbotstown which will be a major cultural shock for Dublin rugby addicts as some of them may have to cross the Liffey for the first time in their lives. What all that means for the GAA is that the option of renting out Croke Park for soccer and rugby is no longer there and the GAA will have rely on their own games mainly to maintain the viability of their new-look £160m stadium. The only other major source of revenue from the use of the stadium will be concerts but unless the current planning permission for Croke Park is re-negotiated only a couple of concerts per year are allowed. The proceeds of any concerts will be chicken feed in relation to the projected annual cost of just running the stadium which at the last count was £2.5 million. The GAA has the capacity to utilise it's brilliant new facilities for corporate and similar functions but again that would be small potatoes in relative terms. The bottom line is that Croke Park will be relying on staging as many big football and hurling games as possible to maintain the long-term viability of the refurbished stadium. And the thousands of Irish sports followers who were looking forward to singing Amhran na bhFiann in Croke Park before a soccer international can dream on. That is the downside for the GAA arising from the FAI decision of last Friday. But of course there are upsides as well and one would expect the GAA to move quickly to exploit these. In the short term they should negotiate with the IRFU with the aim of having rugby internationals played in Croke Park in the next three or four seasons while the National Stadium is being built. But the most important opportunity for the GAA arising from the deal between the FAI and the government is what has come to be known as 'parity of esteem' to borrow a phrase from Northern Ireland politics. Put simply this means that the GAA must be treated pro-rata with the FAI as far as direct government funding is concerned. There is absolutely no reason "in the wide earthly world" as Jackie Healy-Rae might put it, why the GAA would not get at least as much government funding, on a pro-rata basis, as the FAI. So far the government has given £25m towards the rebuilding of Croke Park. But that is a mere drop in the ocean compared with what will be spent on the National Stadium which will be mainly used by soccer and rugby. So in effect these two major sports are being subsidised heavily by having a stadium provided for them. Had the National Stadium not come on the scene then both the IRFU and the FAI would have had to spend in excess of £100m of their own money on developing suitable stud for their respective sports. On top of that the FAI apparently is to get anything up to £50m just for agreeing to become anchor tenants in Abbotstown. And I never mentioned the word 'bribe' did I? The main points at issue now, following the FAI decision, are equity and fair play. The GAA is well capable of finishing the Croke Park development without another penny of government money. The organisation has never been found wanting in its history when faced with raising finance nor will it be in the future. But in financing Croke Park for another £50m or so to complete the work, there is a danger that monies that would otherwise be spent in different counties around Ireland will have to be kept back to fund Croke Park. And the necessity to play as many big GAA games in the stadium will deprive other major GAA grounds of those fixtures. That should not be the case. If the FAI and the IRFU are indirectly getting massive funding simply by agreeing to use the National Stadium then the GAA must be rewarded pro-rata. And let us not forget either that the GAA too has agreed to play a couple of major games in Abbotstown each year to help out the stadium in summertime when there might be no soccer or rugby. Most likely the GAA would play All-Ireland quarter-finals or semi-finals there. So the GAA is entitled, indeed obligated, to go to the government and make their case for equivalent direct funding to what the FAI and the IRFU are getting directly and indirectly. The GAA's case is unanswerable on several grounds. Most notably the GAA has over the past 40 years in particular spent at least £50m providing recreational facilities in every city, town, village and parish in the 32 counties largely from its own resources. One only has to imagine what rural Ireland would be without the local GAA grounds and facilities to appreciate that the organisation has been providing free recreation facilities for young people at a time when successive governments, some well-laced with former GAA stars, didn't want to know about sports facilities. It is now payback time for the GAA to use an expression that should be familiar to Bertie Ahern and Charlie McCreevy in particular. When Irish governments had no money for sport the GAA accepted that and got on with providing facilities themselves. Now that the state is awash with money and can spend a BILLION pounds on one national sports centre the GAA is perfectly entitled to seek a similar slice of the spend on sport, pro-rata, to other sports. Readers may notice that I have used the expression 'pro-rata' several times already but it is vitally important in the whole context of the current debate. With all due respect to the relative strengths of rugby and soccer there is no doubt that the GAA provides recreational facilities for more than the combined total of both. Rugby and soccer, particularly the latter, have expanded greatly in the past 20 years from their traditional urban bases into rural areas but are still only in the halfpenny place there to hurling and Gaelic football. It is in that context that any government financial allocation to the GAA should be evaluated. The soccer people seem to be saying that they will receive direct government funding over the next 13 years of over £100m and good luck to them. It will certainly revolutionise soccer throughout Ireland if it is wisely spent on games promotion. But if the FAI are getting £100m over 13 years then the GAA should be looking for at least twice that amount if we wish to have 'parity of esteem' and the pro-rata factor included. The GAA in Dublin for instance is even more under-financed than soccer and could make very good use of £10m a year of government funding. And let's remember that the GAA also operates in deprived areas not just in Dublin but all over the 32 counties if we are talking about the capacity of sport to counteract vandalism, drug addiction and other social ills. The GAA will need greatly increased financial resources to thrive over the next 10-20 years. The voluntary effort which built the GAA, is rapidly disappearing in our avaricious society and will have to be replaced by financial inducement. This applies particularly to the education sector and underage games. If and when the GAA stands up and fights for its fair share of government finance we can expect the usual suspects to come out of the woodwork, writing to papers and ringing up radio shows, to attack the GAA. After what happened in the FAI-Government dealings PRO Danny Lynch should have little trouble defending the GAA's position. E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
