sport gaa
{ THE FINAL WORD by KARL McGINTY 
    September 08 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaa-approaching-funding-dilemma-26108770.html }
DISTRACTED by their preparations for tomorrow's second  leg of the Leinster Hurling final, the GAA might not have noticed the tremors beneath its feet this week. Yet, the publication of the Irish Sports Council's strategy for the years 2000-2002 is likely to prove earth-shudderingly significant for our national games. Though accorded little fanfare, the 50-page document certainly lived up to its lofty title ``A New Era for Sport.'' At first glance, the ground-breaking decision to build a network of approximately 35 Local Sports Partnerships, to ensure resources are used to maximum effect throughout the nation, appeared to flatter, through imitation, the inter-county structure of the GAA. However, this strategy poses a serious threat to the GAA, with any capital development projects planned by the Association likely to lose out as the State gives strict priority to facilities designated for multi-sports use. And this situation will persist as long as the GAA maintains its contentious ban on the use of its grounds ``for field games other than those sanctioned by Central Council.'' All sport must celebrate the implementation of a strategy which should unravel the chaotic tangle of facilities provided by various Government agencies and sports organisations at local level. And any scheme which takes us even further away from those shamefully wasteful days when Lottery millions were pounded down to dust and sprinkled around the country like Parmesan on pasta is long overdue. But the Sports Council's stated determination to rationalise spending and eliminate the wasteful duplication of facilities at all levels places it on a collision course with the GAA. As Ireland's biggest sports organisation, the Association has benefited hugely at local and regional level from the Government's capital development programme, which this year will see £35m ploughed into projects nationwide. NO problem so far, but even though the cash is already flowing from the Capital Development coffers, the Department and the Sports Council have yet to implement all the aims and objectives of the programme. Only when they complete their planned inventory of all grant-aided facilities nationwide and, from next January, begin to introduce the Local Sports Partnerships, will the Sports Council be in a position to enforce the ``integrated and planned approach to the development of facilities'' set down in their strategy. Once that happens, the Council will apportion funding under a series of guidelines, one of which encourages them to ``encourage the multi-purpose use of facilities at national, regional and community level by clubs, community organisations and the National Governing Bodies of sport.'' When confronted by this during the week, one GAA official said: ``That's all very well, but can you really imagine any politician in Kerry, for example, standing over an order to Austin Stacks to open their doors to a soccer match?'' That's a good question in the current climate but, in future, such decisions will be taken by the Local Sports Partnership, which will be overseen by the Sports Council and co-ordinated by a full-time professional Sports Officer. It will be their responsibility to achieve the optimum use of State-funded facilities in the county or urban area they administer. Imagine, for a moment, that a soccer club from Killarney enters the National League and, flushed with youthful exuberance, they manage to qualify for Europe. They get a mouth-watering draw with Manchester United and, naturally, the whole region is excited about the prospect of such a high-profile sporting event taking place in their own back yard. At first glance, the obvious place to stage the game would be Fitzgerald Stadium, a superb facility built to its current 40,000-plus capacity with the assistance of public money, including £200,000 this year alone. BY rule, the GAA would have no option but to refuse permission for the ground's use. This, in turn, would effectively withdraw the Stadium from the pool of available local sports facilities, throwing its entitlement to substantial public funding into question. Of course, there is another side to the argument. The vast majority of the GAA's facilities pre-date Government grant aid and, for decades, the Association gave the vast majority of Irish people an opportunity to engage in sport they otherwise would never have had.The GAA enjoys a foothold in the heart of every rural community. It has been hard-earned. Not so long ago, the only escape to be had in many a town was the local cinema or on the Gaelic field. The Association still plays an important social role in these times of appalling cultural complacency, and their efforts to conserve a sense of national identity along with our national games and pastimes deserves widespread support. That ideal and, indeed, the very future of the Games themselves are both under serious threat at present from one powerful source - multi-channel television. In view of the constant aerial bombardment of the population with a seamless supply of eye-catching professional sport, especially soccer, the GAA's desire to keep their well-appointed premises to themselves is perfectly understandable. However, it is morally and financially unsustainable at a time when every penny of public funding will have to be spent productively if the opportunity to participate in sport is ever to be extended to every member of the community. 
