sport gaa
{  
    March 27 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/mulvihill-report-offers-compelling-insight-into-real-workings-of-gaa-25996929.html }
LIAM MULVIHILL is, by a long stretch, the outstanding sports legislator in Ireland and has now completed 25 years as CEO of the GAA. But because he shuns the limelight, is not a regular on the Dublin southside social circuit, or does not have a large villa in Marbella, he has a much lower public profile than many of the social gadflies in the GAA and other Irish walks of life. His annual report, presented each year to the GAA Congress, is always a masterpiece of insightful contributions on the current state of the GAA. Mulvihill has excelled himself in his latest report which runs to well over 20,000 words. A few of the 'juicier' points have already been well ventilated in the media, but having studied the document in depth I will highlight a number of Mulvihill comments, some subtle, some not, which give a strong insight into the real workings of the GAA. Croke Park, National Stadium, etc: "In the 1980s, the Minister for Sport approached the sporting organisations with a view to the government building a multi-sports stadium on the basis of a defined investment from the respective sports bodies. The GAA rowed in with this idea. The idea never got off the drawing board because neither the IRFU or the FAI were interested in the proposal. This left the GAA with no option but to develop its own stadium at Croke Park." As an explanation of official GAA's present position on the matter this brief history lesson could hardly be more precise. Future use of Croke Park: "The financial burden on the stadium has now decreased to very manageable proportions and should be eliminated in a few years. This should allow for possible reduction in match-day charges, which would facilitate the playing of more games by our units in the stadium." The key phrase here is 'by our units', which indicates that if there are to be more games played in Croke Park in the future, Mulvihill believes they will be GAA games. Experimental rules: "Undoubtedly the malaise in Gaelic football at present is the amount of personal fouling that is endemic in the game . . . I believe that the game could be cleaned up by applying the existing rules, if we have the will to do so. "I do not favour allowing the clean pick-up off the ground as experimented with, because I believe it may lead to serious head injuries for players diving in to scoop the ball off the ground. "Opinions have been divided about sin-bins/yellow cards etc, but I cannot agree with those why say that the games don't need more discipline: all the evidence is to the contrary." This is the official kiss of death for the abolition of the pick-up, but also a very sharp rebuttal to all those famous GAA managers and players who use the mantra 'Sure Gaelic football is a man's game and there's nothing wrong with the game if its played in the right spirit'. GAA umpires: "A system has evolved whereby the referee is responsible for his own umpires. This can cause problems for a referee due to local loyalties etc. Where a referee has a poor umpire, we have to depend on the ref to replace him. I think the central Referees Appointments Committee will have to adopt a more pre-active role with regard to the appointment of umpires in the coming year." A strong nudge towards commonsense from Mulvihill, but will his words be acted upon? Referees are among the most powerful people in the GAA and will be reluctant to forsake their own pals in white coats in the interest of efficiency. Floodlights: "We have committed ourselves to investing in floodlights in a number of grounds over the next few years. I would question whether we need to put lights into our larger grounds at this stage. The likelihood is that floodlit matches will only attract crowd of from 15,000 down and therefore lights should initially be installed in grounds of this capacity, provided they have all the back-up facilities required for floodlit games." This will come as a shock to the many 'white elephant' GAA grounds around Ireland on which millions have been spent in the past 20 years, but which are hardly ever filled to capacity. They would have been the first to start screaming for floodlight finance, but Mulvihill's comments would tend to favour smaller compact stadiums such as Parnell Park, Mullingar, etc. Interesting aside to floodlights: "Ultimately, we may well consider putting the highest quality of digital quality broadcast lights in in some bigger grounds and perhaps in time in Croke Park itself . . . " "Hardly much encouragement there for those who were expecting to watch floodlit soccer or rugby internationals in Croker soon! Cost of county teams: "The average cost in the year 2004 of preparing county teams was ?473,000, while the figures ranged from ?190,000 to ?1 million. These costs will not be reduced unless by cutting back on the number of team grades, reducing panel sizes or cutting back on the length of the season." At last we have statistics and official comment on the scandal of team costs, whereby the rich counties can strengthen their advantage over financially weaker ones. The GAA could start by scrapping the inter-county Junior and under-21 grades, but even Liam Mulvihill's comments will cut very little ice on this issue. Voluntary effort in the GAA: "Today, every small parish has its own GAA headquarters centred around the playing field or social centre. The spadework to provide this network of playing and social facilities was voluntary. Remuneration was never expected as these real heroes of the GAA were doing a labour of love. As long as voluntary effort is in place, then so long will the GAA continue to prosper. Should professionalism ever rear its head we can expect the volunteer to become part of the GAA's history." Mulvihill's perception of the voluntary effort was certainly true in the past, but less so in recent years as any club can verify. But his basic point on volunteerism in the GAA is correct, even if the GAA of today itself employs hundreds of full-time paid people. These are but a few of many Mulvihill observations which refute any impression of the Director General as a shrinking violet. What many GAA people will regret is that his views are not expressed more often so that he could exert more influence. e-mail: 
eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
