sport gaa
{ Dermot Crowe 
    December 09 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/disquiet-amid-diplomacy-26337505.html }
FOR now, some stability, but the GAA had to draw on all its powers of diplomacy to strike a peaceful resolution at yesterday's Central Council gathering, where several messages of discontent were conveyed over the way the player grants issue has been handled. Intense behind-the-scenes activity helped ensure the deal's safe passage, ratified after a vote by council members. GAA president Nickey Brennan, who came into office with a rallying defence of the GAA's amateur status, will breathe a great sigh of relief. There is no more visceral issue. Since the announcement of an agreement between the GAA, GPA and Government to award annual grants to inter-county players, resistance has been plentiful among the rank-and-file. If the vote had been lost yesterday, or even parked, Brennan and incoming director general Paraic Duffy, would have stood accused of grievously misjudging the situation and the feelings of grassroots members. In the days leading up to the vote a number of county board officers claimed their voices weren't being heard. Last spring, however, Central Council, which is made up of county board representatives from every county, backed a motion calling for the GAA to enter formal negotiations with the GPA and Government to press for grant aid for inter-county players. The original idea wasn't the GAA's but the association gave its approval. There were no protests down Jones's Road or burnings of Brennan's effigy. When the deal emerged over a week ago emergency meetings arose throughout the country, with several Central Council officers mandated to oppose yesterday's planned ratification of the deal. That didn't happen and fears the decision might be stalled were also eased as it became clear that Brennan would be able to sell the deal, with one major concession: the county boards will not have to handle the money. This seemed a fair enough compromise and the funds will instead be disbursed centrally when they are passed down from the Irish Sports Council. They amount to €3.5m annually over three years. The GAA has insisted the deal does not affect Rule 11 of the Official Guide, which protects its amateur status, and yesterday's meeting further beefed up this ring-fencing mechanism in the agreement between the Government, the GAA and the GPA. Presidential candidates Sean Fogarty and Liam O'Neill had said county boards and clubs needed time to absorb the detail and allay concerns that this would impact negatively on the GAA's coveted amateur status. This too was taken on board. Croke Park officials will tour the country after Christmas to explain the deal in greater detail and assure the grassroots. Relations between GAA officers and the GPA have become strained by the threat of a players' strike which many felt was putting a gun to their heads. In Mayo on Thursday the county board voted against the deal to a man; within 24 hours the county footballers and hurlers released a statement condemning the move. That showed the potential for further conflict. Had yesterday's ratification not taken place the GPA was planning to meet on Tuesday to reconsider its position in calling off strike action planned for the new year. The GPA, which made further assurances yesterday on the amateur status, says the issue has been on the Central Council agenda several times, something made clear in a statement released by the GAA on Wednesday last as it watched various county boards threaten revolt. The heart of the matter, though, isn't so much that county boards had been saddled with distributing funds, but the underlying concern that the deal moves the GAA closer to pay-for-play. Any erosion of the amateur code is seen as destructive and having grave implications for the voluntary ethos on which the GAA is founded. Money, it's feared, will corrupt the goodwill of GAA workers and the entire edifice will crumble. There were signs of discontent as soon as the deal was struck, with the chairmen of the Derry and Tyrone county boards saying they would not take part in the distribution of grant money to players, and during the week a rally was held in Antrim to measure the mood among opponents. The meeting warned that the GAA was selling its soul and there would be no way back if it endorsed the grants scheme. The GAA was sufficiently concerned at the growing tide of discontent among the grassroots that it decided to issue a lengthy press statement on Wednesday trying to convince members that the amateur status was secure. Nickey Brennan said the GAA had "no role or commitment in terms of the financing of the awards or guaranteeing their scale or continuity." He added that the GAA's role would be as a facilitator in the administration of the schemes and that the relevant details had yet to be agreed or finalised. There was an attempt to rebut suggestions the grants proposal had been shoved forcefully onto the agenda without widespread consultation. Central Council had nominated agreed officers to act on its behalf in discussions which had been reported on regularly in recent months. Concerns expressed at that time were taken on board. He pointed out that the concept had been the product of talks between the Government and the GPA and that the GAA's role was later in the process to ensure a suitable structure could be achieved and the amateur status would not be impaired. "The GAA has consistently supported the concept of the Government paying awards to GAA players on the basis that it would be payment of exchequer funding through the Irish Sports Council and would have no bearing on, or association with, GAA finance," the statement read. "To withdraw support in that context would be tantamount to the GAA being negative in terms of its players receiving recognition and support from the Government." Opponents were not persuaded by the GPA's or the GAA's insistence that if the grants are withdrawn at any stage no pressure will be placed on the GAA to compensate for the loss. At the core of some of the opposition is an innate distrust of the GPA and its ultimate motives and even whether it truly represents the wider player view. They feel once the precedent of paying players is established, there will be no going back. What then? One source suggested a registered company could be formed to administer the funds and include directors from the GAA and GPA. The GPA has offered to distribute the money but is unable to do so as it is not officially recognised by the Irish Sports Council. That may hasten the GPA's recognition by the GAA as their official players' representative body, something the GPA has been striving for. 
