sport gaa
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    April 15 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/media-criticism-like-water-off-a-ducks-back-for-gaa-26090194.html }
AFTER a week of ranting and raving from all sorts of people from An Taoiseach down, I feel it is important to  put into the public domain some facts. Opinions, rumours or propaganda have been polluting the airwaves and the newspapers over the last week, but facts have been a rare commodity as people debate the Government's allocation of £60 million for Croke Park and the GAA's decision not to make Croke Park available for other sports such as soccer and rugby. In all controversies such as that which emanated from the GAA Congress, facts tend to be the first fatality and this has been the case in this instance. Therefore let's place some facts on the record. Fact No 1: The GAA has the capacity to complete the rebuilding of Croke Park even if it never got one red cent from this or any future Irish government. It has the financial, organisational and motivational capability to do so because the GAA has over 100 years practise at building stadia and clubhouses all over this country without getting any help from state agencies. So Bertie Ahern's claim in a radio interview that the GAA was in some sort of financial trouble and that he was in effect baling out Croke Park from financial disaster, has no substance whatsoever. If they got no grant, the GAA would still finish off the work at Croke Park from its own resources in its own good time. Fact No 2: Arising from a series of meetings with leading GAA officials, the Government told the GAA that £60 million of Government money, that is taxpayers' money, will be made available for the completion of Croke Park. That promise cannot now be reneged on regardless of what internal problems it may cause the coalition Government. So, it is a fact that the GAA will get that £60m over the next three years. Fact No 3: In the talks between the GAA and the Government, there was absolutely no discussion or agreement between the parties about making the £60m conditional on the GAA changing Rule 42 so as to open up the possibility of Croke Park being made available to other sports. This is the most critical fact of them all in this controversy. Fact No 4: The government cannot now force the GAA to change Rule 42 as part of a new deal regarding the £60m. Were the government to attempt to do so, rank-and-file GAA people would deem it to be a form of coercion. The issue would undoubtedly play a big part in next year's general election and the biggest losers would be Fianna Fáil candidates around the country, so there is no way that party will risk such a situation. After all, there is still some substance in the description of the GAA as 'the Fianna Fáil party at play'. Fact No 5: The infamous Rule 42 will be changed, not abolished, by the GAA Congress of 2002 because more than a two-thirds majority of delegates to that Congress will vote in favour of its removal. Those counties who went to Congress last week with the intention of voting for the motion but who split their votes for and against will be forced by their club delegates at county board level to get their act together for next year. The delegates from abroad who were absent because of the foot-and-mouth scare will be back and most of these will vote for opening Croke Park as many of their units have used soccer and rugby grounds for GAA activities and they cannot be hypocritical. At next year's Congress, there is unlikely to be such a mass outbreak of bladder malfunction among delegates at the time of the vote on Rule 42 as there was this year when the toilets of the Burlington Hotel were jammed with Congress delegates just when the vote was taking place. Even some, but not all, of the presidential candidates for next year were 'caught short' at the vital moment and found themselves unable to vote on Rule 42. Fact No 6: Even when Rule 42 is changed so as to allow the Central Council to consider renting Croke Park out for non-GAA games, it is highly unlikely that international soccer games will take place at the stadium. For mid-week international soccer games to take place for instance, changes in the current planning permission attached to Croke Park would be required and the local residents are, quite rightly, going to fight any such changes tooth and nail, probably as far as the Supreme Court. By the way, there are no floodlights in Croke Park at the moment. Rugby is a different matter as their internationals normally take place on Saturday or Sunday afternoons. If the IRFU were to seek the use of Croke Park for internationals, something they have never yet done by the way, then it is possible that in the autumn of 2002 those who have been saying how much they would like to see Brian O'Driscoll scoring a try for Ireland in Croke Park may get their wish. Fact No 7: The mentality which retained the infamous Rule 27 ban on GAA members playing soccer or rugby up until 1971 is still alive and well among several GAA officials. This was shown up in the debate on Rule 42 when much of the phraseology used by anti-motion speakers had a clear resonance of the bitter Ban debates of 30 years ago, and indeed some of the same people were speaking last Saturday week. Particularly significant was that of all the former GAA presidents who were in attendance at Congress most voted against. It is also a fact that younger GAA members were shocked by the attitude of the elder statesmen over Rule 42. Those of us a bit longer in the tooth were not in the least surprised. When all of the above facts are taken into account, it is obvious that the GAA can afford to sit back and relax. The money is as good as in the bank and only the GAA itself can take the decision to open Croke Park, or any other of its grounds, for other sports. And then there is all that talk about a PR disaster for the GAA last week ... well, PR disasters bounce off the GAA like water off a duck's back. e-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
