sport gaa
{  
    May 16 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-barden-case-shines-a-light-on-gaas-rulebook-25914664.html }
There shall be no appeal except as provided in these rules and, in particular, there shall be no appeal to any Court of Law or to any outside body on any matter - Rule 151 (g) Official Guide of the GAA. HARD to believe it today, but for 100 years of GAA history the above rule was seen as sacrosanct and obeyed meticulously by 99.9 per cent of GAA members. But times have changed and today that rule is at best aspirational and at worst a sad reminder of how the GAA used to run its affairs. Those were the days of dictatorial rule in the GAA and the mere presence of Rule 150 in what is in effect the constitution of the organisation showed that the people who ran the GAA in its earlier years believed they were above the law of the land as regards interpreting the rule book. The GAA itself was to be the final arbitrator and the laws of the land were to be ignored. I was reminded of all this by a decision of the High Court last Friday. At the fourth High Court hearing lawyers for the Longford and Clonguish footballer David Barden obtained an interlocutory injunction preventing the GAA from dealing with his sending off in a recent club tournament game between Clonguish and St Vincent's of Dublin. He had been reported by referee Derek Fahy for interfering with the referee at the time he was sent off and this carries a heavy penalty, either six or 12 months suspension. The player and his club were particularly aggrieved because they felt he was harshly treated, although no doubt the referee would not go along with that. Anyway it was decided to take the legal route aimed at first to have Barden available to play for Longford in last Sunday's Leinster championship game against Carlow. Due to pressure on High Court time, this was not possible, but on Friday last, following a three-hour hearing, the matter was dealt with. He had, of course, remained suspended since the sending off until last Friday. Mr Justice Liam McKechnie granted orders restraining the GAA from imposing any suspension or other disciplinary sanction on the player pending a full High Court hearing of the matter on a date yet to be set down. Such a hearing may not take place for at least 12 months and possibly much longer. While the particular circumstances in this case apply only to the Barden affair, they also have wider ramifications for the GAA and possibly other sports bodies. The two points on which the injunction against the GAA was granted referred to the fact that the tournament was not properly sanctioned according to the GAA's own rules and secondly, that the referee was not appointed strictly in accordance with GAA rules either. It is a matter for County Boards to appoint the referee, but in this case, as is common, the organising club did so. Therefore at this stage the contention on the Barden side of the case is that this game was never legally constituted and therefore was null and void. In a tournament such as this, the County Board of every participating club must give approval and it is claimed this did not happen. The judge believes at this stage that there is enough doubt on this matter and the appointment of the referee to warrant a full court hearing. Incidentally, the GAA's barrister argued against all the claims made by Barden's counsel. This raises many questions for the GAA. For instance how many challenge or tournament games at club and county level actually have full approval from county boards, provincial councils or Central Council as they are supposed to have? More often than not such games are arranged privately by team managers, somebody is roped in to referee and away they go. The latest fad with managers is to arrange inter-county challenge games to be played behind closed doors so no 'spies' can watch them. I wonder how many of those are sanctioned properly? I would imagine the majority of challenges are illegal. If that is the case, then how can the GAA suspend people arising from such games? Or how can players who suffer serious injuries in challenge games qualify for compensation or insurance? And should players who take part in unauthorised games not be suspended for breaking GAA rules? All these matters could be laughed off by GAA officials for years, and they were too. They never had to worry about GAA people, particularly players, taking matters outside the Association. I can still recall being in the company of prominent Central Council members some years ago as they threw scorn and venom on a well-known player who had the audacity to go to the courts in order to get the justice he was denied by the GAA. He was assaulted in a county championship game and suffered serious injury. Well, the smirk has been well and truly wiped off the faces of such arrogant GAA officials by several court cases in recent years, but this latest one is even more serious. It has the capacity to undermine the administrative structures of the GAA, should the eventual High Court hearing go against them. That could see players taking legal action to upset refereeing decisions unless the GAA laws were complied with down to the finest detail - and that is a rare occurrence, particularly when we are talking about club games around the country. No GAA person likes the idea of having to go to law to get what they perceive as justice, but with the changes in Irish society which see greater recourse to the courts in all sorts of dispute procedures, it is inevitable that more and more GAA matters of dispute will end up in the courts. This opens up for the GAA what a famous British Lord Chancellor once described as 'an appalling vista'. In the particular case of David Barden for instance it means that he will almost certainly never serve any further suspension for this particular incident. It seems unlikely that the GAA will actually pursue their defence in this case and it will probably just fizzle out in time. What effect will this ruling have on referees? Could a person who, according to the Irish courts, has been wrongly suspended by the GAA take action against the GAA for defamation, etc? These are the sort of questions which will haunt GAA officials until more legal tidying up of their own Official Guide is carried out. And they should start with the removal of Rule 150 (g). An interesting aside to this case is that if it had gone ahead on Friday week, David Barden would have played for Longford against Carlow. Bearing in mind that Longford only trailed Carlow by one point with five minutes of normal time to play, it is reasonable to say that the result would have been different had the talented forward lined out for Longford from the start of the game. E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
