sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    December 18 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/gaa-happy-to-sell-its-soul-if-price-is-right-26351618.html }
WHEN you travel anywhere throughout Ireland and come across tall concrete walls, you can be fairly certain that hidden behind those walls will be a GAA pitch. Indeed, you may have no other way of knowing what is inside because for some strange reason, the majority of GAA pitches do not display their name over the entrance. Maybe this is a touch of arrogance - assuming that everybody should know where the GAA pitch - or more likely, it is sheer carelessness, showing scant regard for informing the public, which is a common fault with GAA people. The GAA has always had a fascination with concrete walls. Going back 50 years or more, the first thing that would be built at a GAA ground - before dressing rooms, stands or terracing - was mass concrete walls between six and ten feet tall. Many of these still survive to this day and are a sorry looking sight by now. The GAA was determined that nobody would view their matches for free, hence all the big walls which often gave an impression of a medieval fortress within, maybe intentionally! Given the history of the GAA in this regard, it is surprising that Cement Roadstone or similar companies are not major GAA sponsors. I am reminded of all this by stories being floated in the media in recent weeks about GAA grounds being sold out to developers in return for luxurious facilities 'out of town'. Grounds mentioned in this regard include Newbridge, Ennis, Mullingar, Tralee and Waterford - all county grounds - as well as a raft of club grounds in different parts of booming Ireland. Indeed, it looks as if the latest status symbol in the GAA is to have an offer from developers for your grounds. Figures as high as ?30 million have been mentioned for these proposed deals. I must say I am amused on one score at least. No organisation in Ireland makes a virtue of tradition as much as the GAA and yet at the drop of a hat here they are prepared to take the developers' shillings and dump all the great traditions attached to famous GAA county grounds. I have often written that the greatest catalyst for change in the GAA is not changing society, the demands of young people or scientific rationale, but money. If the money is right, GAA people have no bother dropping long-held ideals that seemed to be set in stone. The reformation that took place in the All-Ireland championships which created more games and the decision to open Croke Park to other sports were just two developments that were certainly influenced, at least in part, by the money factor. And of course the acceptance of sponsorship, including from drinks companies, was the best example of all of how money softens the cough of even the most die-hard GAA traditionalist. I remember hearing one GAA president after another preaching at Congress after Congress that: "We will never see the name of an alcohol company attached to any GAA competition". Yes indeed! Nowadays, even underage teams can be seen wearing jerseys emblazoned with the name of the local pub. Most county GAA grounds have an awesome tradition. Firstly, they are the result of remarkable foresight by GAA officers long ago who acquired land in urban areas although it must have even been expensive back then. The manner in which these grounds were developed epitomises what the GAA stands for. Many people gave of their own time and expertise to build those walls, install seating, drain and lay pitches, build dressing room etc. It is safe to say that a lot of blood, sweat and tears has been invested in these famous GAA grounds over the years . . . and I'm not talking about players' or referees' blood. The grounds became symbols of the a thriving GAA, and instilled a huge sense of pride, particularly as other sports rarely achieved the same level of ground development. Abandoning town centre grounds like Newbridge, Mullingar, Ennis or Tralee will certainly be a huge wrench for many loyal followers. These grounds were woven into the fabric of life for such fans. They had their own spots in the stadium for watching matches; they knew where they could park their car; and their favourite meeting-place for a post-match pint and a chat was never very far away from the pitch. Indeed, there are lifelong fans who can indicate to the nearest centimetre where some famous player was the day he scored a never-to-be-forgotten goal that won a match for club or county. Having said all that, most GAA followers understand that many grounds in built-up areas have run their course and are not amenable to modern requirements. Parking in the immediate vicinity is now problematic, particularly with so much Sunday shopping nowadays. Many of the older grounds are severely hemmed in with no space to expand or improve spectator facilities. What most county boards are being offered is simply too good to refuse. Not alone are they getting state of the art new stadiums built for them, but they also get additional facilities such as training grounds, all-weather pitches and parking etc. The greater good is certainly being served by these proposed changes of location for county grounds, but in the case of club grounds the merits of switching from a central location, convenient for the club players, to a more remote location is very dubious. After all, the strength of the GAA is that the club is at the heart of the community they serve, so moving away from there is certainly high-risk. Some GAA people are genuinely concerned at the rush to embrace big money deals at all levels of the organisation and the proposed sale of county grounds steeped in history will add to their fears. But most people will be pleased that the great foresight and dedication of former GAA members who provided the old grounds in the first place will be rewarded with modern, state of the art grounds in keeping with the needs of players and public in the times we live in. 
