sport gaa
{ Vincent Hogan 
    July 22 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/embracing-the-brave-new-world-26552731.html }
On Munster hurling final day, John Mullane momentarily considered striding into a major diplomatic minefield. Announced as RTE's 'Man of the Match' after Waterford's defeat by Tipperary at Semple Stadium, Mullane was invited to accept his award -- as is tradition -- in front of the cameras. A naturally obliging sort, he intimated that he would. Mullane has always been an independent spirit and, for a moment, it seemed that the GPA's controversial picket line was about to be crossed at the very first time of asking. Yet, somewhere between entering the tunnel under the Kinane Stand and arriving at Waterford's dressing-room door, the brilliant De La Salle man reconsidered. Politely, he informed the RTE floor manager that it might perhaps be best if he declined their invitation. It was an uncomfortable position for Mullane to find himself in, yet you could hardly blame the television man for trying. After all, the turf war now raging as a backdrop to the current Championship has little to do with the state broadcaster or, for that matter, TV3. Ten years into existence, the GPA simply felt the need to inconvenience the television people so that they might, as they put it, "get the attention" of the GAA. RTE are, of course, joint sponsors of the Hurling Championship, so the denial of access to player interviews will hardly be looked on kindly in Montrose. Yet, for the GAA, the embarrassment of seeing a major sponsor snubbed must surely be accompanied by a realisation that -- technically -- it has never been their gift to guarantee player compliance on the back of any commercial deal. Frankly, if every county player enrolled in the Greta Garbo School of Public Relations tomorrow, the GAA would be utterly powerless to confront it. That is the fundamental weakness of their position now. The presumption of co-operation is, essentially, redundant.  AGREEABLE Mullane considered doing the RTE interview on July 12, firstly, because he is of an essentially agreeable nature and, secondly, because TV interviews have never -- traditionally -- been considered chores for GAA players. As a rule, they provide maximum profile and minimum disclosure. Unlike sitting through a one-hour newspaper interrogation, the TV interview can be painless. A swift, gentle exchange of sound bites as distinct from any serious exploration of specifics. Given the choice, most players would choose facing a TV camera ahead of a print journalist's tape-recorder. Yet, newspapers would get by with profile pieces and issue-driven editorials if players stopped talking to them tomorrow. Television cannot do that. Without access to the players, they are left with empty air time to kill. A live match broadcast, bereft of dressing-room reaction, has the feel of a diminished presentation. The GPA action was seen by some as a significant step down the road towards the so-called 'nuclear option' of a national players' strike. It doesn't require a profound leap of the imagination to understand why this might be so. Any outbreak of player militancy terrifies the GAA because it reminds them of how little control they have, contractually, over the players on whose backs their revenue is generated. That fear, mind, has been well camouflaged in their decade-long jousting with the GPA. Instead of exploring adult lines of communication, the GAA has traditionally been defensive with, if not downright hostile to the players' representative body. That the GPA should even feel a need to "get the attention" of the Association after 10 years of supposed communication between the two bodies, reveals a great deal about the calibre of that communication. In essence, the GAA has engaged with the GPA only in the way a bouncer engages with a drunk. The devil has never been in the detail of this conflict. It has been in the body language, in the practiced disdain with which the Association often approached its dealings with the GPA. In 10 years, the GPA has never reached 'agreements' with the GAA. It has won 'concessions'. The vocabulary used on both sides reveals the canyon that, philosophically, divides them. Exasperated by the absence of any meaningful progress, there was more than a hint of menace in Dessie Farrell's recent observation that there was "an easy way and a hard way" to resolving differences between the two bodies. This is the kind of language that triggers alarm bells through every strand of GAA business. And it scarcely needs decoding. The threat of strike is the GPA's ultimate weapon. Maybe even more potent than a strike itself. Yet, the real doomsday scenario is lightning industrial action the week of an All-Ireland final. What does the GAA do then? If the two competing teams announce they will not fulfil the fixture unless certain financial commitments are made, where then for the Association? The implications could be ruinous. That isn't likely to happen this year or next, but if the impasse between the GPA and GAA prevailed indefinitely, who is to say what the future might hold? GAA President, Christy Cooney, certainly looks more energised by the Association's relationship with the GPA now than he did at his inauguration last Easter. You can detect a fundamental shift in the dynamics here. Yet, the promise of "substantial funding on a project-by-project basis" if the GPA "come into the family" was never likely to appease a body for whom independent autonomy is essential. Similarly, the GPA's demand for a ring-fenced 5pc of all GAA commercial revenue would have triggered consternation in every single corridor of Association business. So, how on earth to bridge the two philosophies?  revenue Well, for a start, the GAA might wisely decommission its view that inter-county hurling and football remain, essentially, "recreational" pursuits. They aren't. Recreational activity doesn't generate commercial revenue on the kind of scale the GAA Championships now command. Serious, high-octane sport does. The professional preparation now presumed upon of top inter-county players demands they pursue the lifestyle of full-time athletes. To compare the physical investment of today's county players with that of their predecessors of even 20 years ago, is simply disingenuous. The games now played are branded commercially, generate huge TV revenue and house small armies of professional people taking an income from the preparation of teams. In many cases, managers are paid too. The GAA has, in its trust, a product unrecognisable from its past and, to deny this, is to play a treacherous kind of blind man's bluff. It is the GAA itself that choses to commercialise its games without having any contractual hold on those generating that commerce. There was a clear convenience to their position taken on the now imperiled Government grants, ie any implication of pay-for-play could not be seen to carry the Association's own fingerprints. Thus, the illusion of amateurism was sustained. The conceit of purity protected. Now, in a recession so deep that the cutting of social welfare payments is being considered, the Government goes through the pretence of refining a grants programme they cannot possibly regard as remotely tenable anymore. The GAA needs to be innovative here. Innovative and pro-active. Former Tipperary hurler, Conal Bonnar, was one of the GPA players interviewed on the Late Late Show shortly after the body's inauguration a decade ago. Now, he describes the predicament looming as a kind of "James Larkin scenario." "I think the whole landscape has changed with the stance of the Cork hurlers this year," explains Bonnar. "That showed that players could stand together and not budge on an issue. And, when players do that, the GAA is powerless. "Now the Association simply has to get the GPA under its roof. They have to bring them into the fold and extract a price for it. The reality is that, if the grants scheme was supported and they were recognised officially as a body, the GPA could not legitimately strike over their demand for 5pc of the Association's revenue. "The demand the GAA must extract in return for -- say -- a grant of €3,000 is that the players won't accept pay for play, that no inter-county player will strike and that they will be available to sponsors, do interviews and present medals, that sort of thing. Personally, if I was the GPA, I wouldn't sell myself that short. "But, if the GAA offers that, the GPA hasn't a leg to stand on." Bonnar admits that the "packaging" of such a deal would require imagination, but argues "it's the GAA who have cornered themselves here. Because they have gone down this road of selling the inter-county games without recognising the people who generate the income from those games, they have actually handed the power to the players. "The commercialism they have engaged in is based totally on selling a professional inter-county game. But the people who play that game are not contracted. There's no obligation on them to play. You can't suspend them if they don't. "If every county player announces 'sorry, I'm not available this weekend', the GAA can do nothing about it." Maybe the essential problem is the sense of partition that now prevails. The atmosphere of conflict. Many of those now agitating for official recognition for the GPA will be those directing GAA policy 20 years from now. The wheels keep turning. Bear in mind that, just over two decades back, the creation of Supporters' Clubs was considered an incendiary issue within the Association, revenue being generated for the preparation of teams that County Boards had no control over. At their inception, Supporters' Clubs terrified the GAA.  wisdom Yet, they found the wisdom to embrace them, realising that they could not assert control over a body that was not officially recognised. Today, Supporters' Clubs effectively operate as supplementary fundraising arms for the Association. The politics of exclusion do not work. Historically, the GAA has shown wisdom on the edge of crisis. Croke Park was opened to 'foreign' games in a limited way that appeased even those most stridently opposed to the idea. Not to have done this could have plunged the Association into a potential civil war of its membership. Still, it required a major leap of faith for a broad church of the GAA's membership to take. They took that leap. Now another must be taken. If the GAA wants professional athletes selling its product, it must officially recognise the commitment those athletes make. To do so, need not be to dishonour or betray its history. As Bonnar puts it: "The GAA must never be let die. You see those ads referring back to 1884 and they remind you what the GAA has achieved in this country. But it has achieved those things by taking giant strides. "Go back 20 years ago, you had inter-county players with their tongues hanging out in games. You'd even see fellas going up to collect a cup with a cigarette in one hand. Supporters wouldn't tolerate that anymore. Sponsors wouldn't tolerate it. We live in a different world now." It isn't an anti-GAA argument to acknowledge that new world. Rather one to protect the next 125 years, not mythologise the last. 
