sport gaa
{ Gene McKenna 
    October 23 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/gaa-set-to-lose-40m-funding-for-croke-park-work-26032163.html }
THE GAA will have to apply afresh for  ?40m funding for Croke Park, it emerged last night after a meeting between the association and senior government ministers. There are now increasing doubts that this will be paid because of the worsened exchequer position and the fact that the funding had been linked to a publicly-funded National Stadium and the GAA undertaking to play some of its matches at Abbotstown. Sports Minister John O'Donoghue insisted after last night's meeting that the funding issue and the possible use of Croke Park for the joint Ireland-Scotland 2008 European Soccer Championships were not connected. Taoiseach Bertie Ahern and Mr O'Donoghue were accompanied at the meeting by Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy while the GAA delegation was headed by president Sean McCague. In advance of the GAA Congress last year, Mr Ahern announced ?75m for Croke Park but on the next day a motion to open Croke Park to other sports was defeated by a single vote. Mr O'Donoghue said last night the Government had already paid around ?134m to the GAA under the Sports Capital Programme, with ?69m specifically related to the Croke Park development. "We discussed the whole question of funding and asked the GAA to send in an application for funding in the normal way in respect of Croke Park and it will receive our consideration," Mr O'Donoghue said. "The facts of the matter are that a letter was sent to the GAA in relation to funding but it was predicated on usage of the National Stadium by the GAA," he said. As the National Stadium is not now going ahead by way of Exchequer funding, the GAA had to make an application like the other sporting organisations and that would receive "every consideration". Asked if this had anything to do with indications from the GAA that it was not going to open up Croke Park to the Euro 2008 soccer championships bid, Mr O'Donoghue said that was an entirely separate issue on which the Taoiseach had written to the GAA and they would consider that. "But the main focus of today's meeting was the whole issue of funding for the GAA," Mr O'Donoghue said yesterday. He added that the question of the opening up of Croke Park was a matter for the GAA to consider. He said an application for funding by the GAA was not going to be linked to the possible opening up of Croke Park in 2008. "We would obviously wish the GAA to make the ground available for the championships because it is of such fundamental importance in terms of attracting visitors and generating some ?50m in revenue," he said. It would also give this country access to a world-wide TV audience of seven billion people for the third largest sporting event in the world. "There are no pre-conditions being imposed on the GAA, no more than there were any pre-conditions for any other sporting organisations. It would be entirely unfair for us to do that," said the minister. "We have to consider the GAA application on its merits and I have assured the delegation that we will do that," he said. "Every application has to be considered in that way and there are no circumstances in which I would rule out their application at this time," he said. The total cost of the Croke Park project is around ?250m and the GAA wants Exchequer money to help it complete the work. A special GAA Congress is being held this weekend but no motions on opening up Croke Park to other sports are on the agenda. Mr McCague said last night the situation was disappointing but acknowledged that the country's economic circumstances had changed. 
