sport gaa
{  
    March 15 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/gaa-hits-back-over-gpa-grant-issue-claims-26394322.html }
ANOTHER war of words has broken out between the GPA and GAA over the issue of sports grants for all inter-county players. The GPA stepped up its campaign to put pressure on the GAA over the sports grants issue by calling an 'emergency' general meeting on April 1. Colm Keys ANOTHER war of words has broken out between the GPA and GAA over the issue of sports grants for all inter-county players. The GPA stepped up its campaign to put pressure on the GAA over the sports grants issue by calling an 'emergency' general meeting on April 1. The call to all their members comes as they continue to accuse the GAA of dragging its heels on the grants issue. But the GAA hit back in a counter statement insisting that the matter will be dealt with when incoming president Nicky Brennan takes office. The GAA emphatically denied that the concept of sports grants hadn't previously been endorsed by Central Council. Last week a GPA statement highlighted its anger over the GAA's failure to attend a meeting with Minister for Sport John O'Donoghue. The GPA's national executive which comprises chief executive Dessie Farrell, chairman Donal Og Cusack, president D J Carey, secretary Kieran McGeeney and commercial director Donal O'Neill among others called the egm after they met on Monday night The meeting has been called for Portlaoise on April 1 "in response to the GAA's non-cooperation with the players association over the introduction of Government sports grants and a host of other player welfare issues. "The GPA does not accept the slow rate of progress on the grants proposal. Despite a number of supportive statements by GAA officials and endorsement by Central Council over a year ago, the GAA has failed subsequently to engage with the players on this issue culminating in last week's failure to attend a critical meeting with the Sports Minister. The invitation to the GAA to attend this meeting was done so without prejudice." In response the GAA said the first it heard of the meeting with Minister O'Donoghue was at its Central Council meeting on February 25. "At that meeting delegates expressed the need to have the matter discussed in detail at their County Boards so that they could return with their respective Boards' views and mandate. "In addition, incoming president, Nicky Brennan, pointed out that the implications or application of any decision taken would arise in his term of office. "On that basis it was the unanimous decision of Central Council that consideration of the Sports Grants Proposal should be deferred until after April's Congress and Dessie Farrell, a member of Central Council, withdrew the players' motion 'to support the introduction of Government funded Sports Grants for Senior Inter-county Players'." The convening of a GPA egm so soon after the matter was deferred by Central Council until Brennan's accession will be viewed in some quarters as a move to wards some form of strike action. But on the cusp of another championship it is impossible to see some of the top teams in the both football and hurling championships downing tools on this issue. Minister O'Donoghue indicated to the GPA representatives, Farrell and Cusack, at last week's meeting that he couldn't move on any grant issue unless it is fundamentally approved by the GAA. The Department is likely to see this as a fundamental issue that the GAA must first decide, just as the softening of Rule 42 was at the last Congress. Even if the grants proposal was endorsed by the GAA there are wider implications for the Department. Would ladies footballers and camogie players also seek to be included in the scheme? And could top club footballers and hurlers feel slighted by their exclusion? Under the GPA proposal the grants would be three-tiered according to standard with ?2500 for the top hurling and football teams, ?1750 for the next layer and ?1000 for the lowest tier in both codes. 
