sport gaa
{ Eimear Rabbitte 
    January 21 2014 07:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/bernard-brogan-getting-into-soccer-and-rugby-but-dubs-fans-neednt-worry-29935790.html }
Dublin GAA star Bernard Brogan is making the move into rugby and soccer – but strictly in a work capacity. The two-time All Ireland winner is flying along with his sports management business, which he co-owns with his cousin James. Bernard, a trained accountant, and James, a solicitor, joined tax consultant David Clancy in 2012 to create Legacy Sports and Entertainment Consultants. While the company advises up-and-coming GAA stars, Bernard said sports marketing and corporate investment is generating a lot of work for them. “It's going really well,” Bernard told the Herald. “We are doing some stuff with the GAA and soccer and we are breaking into rugby as well so it's a bit of an all-rounder.” The 29-year-old said global brands like AIG are now on their books. “We are signed up with AIG now so we are going to help them with some of their activation, which is great for us. “There is a sports agency aspect to it, but a lot of the stuff now is working with the brands, so we are doing some sports marketing and a lot of corporate hospitality with them. “As along as the business keeps growing that is the main thing and at the moment it’s looking really good.” SCORED 2013 was a great year for Bernard on the pitch – he scored two goals in the All Ireland final against Mayo before picking up the player of the match gong and an All-Star. Off the field, things are also blossoming for the loved-up forward and girlfriend Kiera Doyle. “I'm off the market now, I have a lovely girlfriend,” he said. “Things are going great on that front so everything is really falling into place.” Bernard ended his relationship with long-term girlfriend Leslie Walsh in 2012 and was also linked to model Michele McGrath. The Oliver Plunkett’s clubman is now back in training for this GAA season, but took some time out to help launch the Irish leg of the Wings for Life World Run. Five thousand places are available for the Irish part of the race which will see runners tackling the Ring of Kerry in aid of spinal cord research. “I try and keep fit when I'm not training I get involved in different runs,” he said. hnews@herald.ie Irish Independent 
