sport gaa
{  
    May 14 2007 09:18 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/free-market-health-care-26287962.html }
As nurses continue to walk out on the patients of an already disgraced healthcare system, causing unknown levels of additional misery to sick people, we must ask serious questions about the role of the State in healthcare provision. Government spending has more than trebled over 10 years, but there is scandalously little to show for it. A consensus is growing that the public healthcare system has failed. On the other hand, many of us have come to recognise the unrivalled power of free markets to promote efficiency, value, and innovation. This critical insight should now be applied where efficiency, value and innovation are so urgently needed.
GRAHAM NEARY,
MOUNT MERRION,
CO DUBLIN
 Our abortion adolescence The "Miss D" abortion case has again highlighted the adolescent stage in which we, as a nation, are currently entrenched. By refusing to recognise the estimated annual 6,000 plus cases of Irish women travelling to the UK for abortions, the country is effectively sticking its head in the sand and damaging the image of a developed, grown-up state we may now be trying to sell to the rest of the world. The argument that having abortion or termination procedures, or whatever else we may feel least uncomfortable calling it, available in this country giving rise to increased promiscuity and greater transmission of STIs does a great disservice to the population as a whole. Such dark ages of misinformation must surely now be finally shelved. Or how many more letters of the alphabet must we get through before we, as a people, eventually deal with the matter rather than shirking our responsibility by leaving it to unelected members of the judiciary? Bearing in mind of course that what goes no further than a political, moral or lawful debate for many of us changes the lives of those at the centre of such hard cases. In an environment where most politicians have a malleable backbone, to put it mildly, it's likely that this will be an election issue that few will take a stand on, one way or the other. However, in a few short weeks, with elections out of the way for another five years this non-straighforward, emotional matter might be something our politicians and the country as a whole consider. Our hypocritical, Oirish solution to a universal conundrum must be examined.
KIERAN SULLIVAN,
GEORGESTOWN,
KILMACTHOMAS,
CO WATERFORD
 The hounded journalist As part of a project to comemmorate World Press Freedom Day on May 3, I was honoured to make contact with some top Zimbabwean journalists. These brave men and women eloquently described their determined attempts to report the news in Zimbabwe despite arrests, beatings, torture and death threats. They were subsequently hounded from the country and now live in exile. Their collection of articles are part of a special edition newspaper published by Amnesty International, entitled 'The Daily News in Exile' which can be read in full on the Amnesty website. In the West, of course, one rarely reads of such blatant cruelty to journalists. It is, though, quite common to hear of the press being wined and dined by politicians, intent on securing favourable reports for themselves and their policies. Reporters spend many long evenings throughout the course of their careers, listening to politicians indulging themselves in their own spin and pontifications. And it did occur to me that, in a functioning democracy, torture of journalists is much more subtle.
ELAINE DESMOND,
MALLOW,
CO CORK
 GAA does not play cricket The response to my letter about the Government expression of support to the Cricket Association by Mr Alan O Maonaigh of An Mhi was sadly predictable. As a participant and fan of a great many sports, I cannot understand why Mr O Maonaigh or the GAA believes it has the sole right to sports funding by the State. I have never once heard gripes from other sporting codes re the extent of funding received by the GAA and its various entities. No other code receives anywhere near the levels of funding from the State, or from lottery funds, even though soccer as a sport, has the highest participation rate in the State. If Government funding helps the Cricket Association, or any other sporting code for that matter, to build or improve its facilities, how is this any different to the funds being poured into GAA facilities for years? Surely we should have one rule for the funding of all codes? Once a Minister for Sport shows himself to be a Minister for all Sports and not only GAA games, we see the reaction this provokes from the GAA quarter, perhaps fearing either an increased uptake of other sports or, heaven forbid, a possible reduction in the levels of funding received by the GAA. As we are all well aware, under GAA rules, their well funded facilities are not permitted for use by other sporting codes, and yet no other sporting organisation has seen fit to take issue with such funding. In contrast, other sporting codes evidently do not begrudge the GAA the funding it receives, perhaps in sporting anticipation of a level playing field when it comes to funding of their own sports facilities. Finally, Mr O Maonaigh refers to me having a "cheap shot at the GAA". The fact that total legal costs on the Tallaght fiasco are most likely currently in excess of €400,000 is hardly cheap, not to mention the fact that the GAA backed judicial review will serve only to delay the project and deprive more children and sports fans in the Tallaght area from enjoying a modern and safe sporting facility, all the while the Government has promised the GAA funding for a new stadium project down the road at Rathcoole, a stadium which no doubt would not be open to any non GAA codes. Yours in sport (ALL sport).
PETER MADDEN,
BRAY, CO WICKLOW
 Wild goats and Travellers Reading a recent letter regarding the Bilberry goats and the Waterford City Development Plan (Letters, April 26) one gets the whiff of sour grapes at the fact that this community of animals has received official acceptance from the local authority while the issue of the Bilberry halting site retains its place on the long political finger. Waterford City Council is to be congratulated for accepting that the Bilberry goats are a unique feature of the local landscape. Given that Waterford like so many other counties in Ireland has major animal welfare problems any support given to the non-human members of our society is to be welcomed. The issue of the Bilberry halting site is a human welfare issue that can be dealt with given the amount of traveller support groups that exist in Ireland to articulate the case of those who live on the site. The Bilberry goats on the other hand, cannot speak for themselves. Only for the emergence of a local support group to fight their corner it would have being only a matter of time before every gun slinger in Waterford would be crawling around Bilberry looking for a goat to shoot. To have a wild goat herd within the city is a cultural asset. For Waterford City Council to put in place protection system for this herd shows that at last the Council are protecting the rights of the non-human members of our city. What we don‘t need is for people to think that human welfare issues are above animal welfare issues. Both are connected. How a society treats its non-human members is a reflection on how it treats its human members. Travellers may not be treated well in Ireland but if they think they have it bad, try being an animal in Ireland for a day.
JOHN TIERNEY,
WATERFORD ANIMAL
CONCERN,
WATERFORD 
