sport gaa
{ Northern notebook Terry McLaughlin 
    December 30 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/sport-in-schools-the-key-to-a-new-era-26252747.html }
THE end of one sporting year means  that preparations are starting for another. The final stage of the season is looming, the last  lap is in sight in terms of planning and plotting and preparing for the task of making a last push. The challenge for meeting the demands of success on the field is particularly demanding in the sphere of schools sport. The beginning of January is the signal for the stepping up of training as schools and colleges with aspirations of glory set their sights on the ultimate prize. It is the same in rugby, soccer and gaelic football. Sporting dreams cut across all school boundaries. Winning on the pitch means that the respective schools can look back on a year of sporting achievement once the summer holidays start at the end of June. The sport should not matter. All that should matter is that the respective schools have had an opportunity to test collective skills at the highest level. In Northern Ireland, however, as ever, things are still that bit different, that little bit twisted in terms of reflecting the deep divisions which still affect Northern society.The decision just a few short weeks ago by the GAA to drop the contentious ban on members of the British security forces playing its sports was greeted as a positive move forward. Among those to offer warm congratulations was the Ulster Unionist Minister for Sport, Michael McGimpsey. There was no dilution of his Unionism in being able to recognise that the Gaelic Athletic Association had made a major step. And it was a major step forward. Of course there are still those on ultra hard line fringe of Unionism and Loyalism that were disappointed at the move. At a sweep the GAA removed one of the biggest sticks that the bigots had been able to use over them in the last quarter of a century. The begrudging acknowledgement of the move by the GAA from some predictable quarters of Unionism was sour enough to curdle cream. In the aftermath of the move by Croke Park there was a sense that the bootleg copies of the GAA Rule book were being thumbed through with deranged fanaticism by political fundamentalists.The hunt is now on for any aspect of the GAA Rule book that can be seized upon. There is a drive to find any rule or paragraph or sub clause that can be distorted and maligned and misrepresented. The objective is to service the insatiable hunger of those fundamentally opposed to anything and everything connected with the GAA. For while the GAA can be used as an organisation capable of being demonised by demagogues, there will be people who will be ruled by the relentless rhetoric. That is where education comes into the equation. For too long the GAA, because of the historical baggage that was weighed down on its collective shoulders by its image as being a limited sporting company rather than an all inclusive organisation, has only had a physical presence in the Northern Ireland Catholic school sector. The coaches that are funded and supported by the GAA in the context of bringing the sports message to schools have only ever brought that message to the Catholic education sector. The reasons for that terrible imbalance are complex and convoluted. But no matter what the reasons for the situation it is a damming indictment of all concerned.The GAA has to ask itself why it allowed itself to accept rejection of its sporting message by the state school sector in the north. Of course there was a comfortable two way street process involved. If people didn't ask to be let in then they would not be refused admittance. That was the easy way out, of course, for all concerned. Catholic Schools and State schools. The unholy alliance, the covert message hammered out on the anvil of educational expediency. It allowed Protestant children to play what became regarded as their sports. Hockey, cricket and rugby rarely appeared on any prospectus drawn up by Catholic colleges or schools. In recent years the one exception has been soccer with schools and pupils from both traditions playing against each other. Other sports, however, continue to be the preserve of a particular community. When it came to the State school sector there as was much chance of Gaelic Games being included on the curriculum as there was of the Reverend Ian Paisley throwing in the ball to start a Crossmaglen Rangers game. That should never have been allowed to happen. For the State school sector prides itself on being able to at least subscribe to an open door society in terms of educational opportunity. But that philosophy has been slammed closed when it comes to the reality of a pluralist Physical Education sector. In a statement issued to the Sunday Independent the Department of Education in the North displayed a side step technique that would have won acclaim on any sporting field. They pointed out that the schools themselves "decide which games activities they will decide to meet the requirements of the Physical Education Programme of Study". The Statement added that the programme was flexible enough to "enable teachers to adjust the activities available to cater for developing the particular sporting interests of all pupils." It added that all children are encouraged to participate in a wide range of sporting activities to "encourage a healthier lifestyle for everyone." Just how Martin McGuinness, the current Minister for Education in the Northern Ireland Executive and a keen supporter of the Derry football team, can square those words with the reality in the classrooms of the State sector is both baffling and embarrassing. It is even more embarrassing when set against the comments made by the Sports Minister, Mr. McGimpsey, at the opening of the Youth Games back in May. THE Sports Minister said that everything possible had to be done to get children involved with sport from an early age. This, he said, would lay the foundations for a better future. Participation, he added, in sport helped broaden horizons, by meeting people from different backgrounds and by making new friends. The end result, said the Sports Minister, would help them grow into the responsible adults of tomorrow with everyone in society benefiting. Fine words. Brave words. But we can only take at face value however their worth in terms of sincerity. For until the men charged with the responsibility of helping forge new attitudes and implant new ways of thinking in a new generation, sporting apartheid will continue to be a stain on education. And attitudes will not change until the words of Ministerial civil servants are translated into curriculum currency on the playing fields as well as in the classroom. Until that happens vested educational interests will continue to refuse validation of a better way forward. 
