sport gaa
{ NORTHERN NOTEBOOK TERRY McLAUGHLIN 
    March 24 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/tune-of-the-tv-piper-sounds-a-warning-to-sport-26240163.html }
THE PIPER always plays his own  tune in the end. After the past seven days it is a saying that is well worth reflecting upon, especially from a sporting stance. The tune played by the piper, on a variety of sporting stages, was not one that perhaps people wanted to hear. However there was no escaping its strident sound. It was loud and clear and it was strong enough to penetrate the deafest of closed ears. The GAA last week opened its accounts. The exercise was one that showed in crystal clear terms that if anybody is of the opinion that the purse strings are going to be loosened they may start thinking again. The balance sheet to accommodate payments on a weekly basis to county players does not add up, according to Sean McCague. Of course the response from the advocates of paid professionalism within the GAA will argue differently, will analyse the spreadsheet documents from a particular standpoint. They believe that they have got the wrong end of the stick, that they have been forced to accept that the thin end of the wedge is constantly getting thinner. On the other hand, they would argue, the pile of bank notes being provided on the back of Gaelic games through the turnstiles and by the broadcasters apparently gets bigger and bigger. Recent events, however, should send a shiver of reality through the collective spine of sport in Ireland. The decision by the ITV Sports Channel to axe the level of its payment to Nationwide soccer in Britain will not be lost on broadcasters on this side of the Irish Sea. Of course there are distinct differences between the impact of a British television company deciding that after spending more than stg£1b to shore up an ailing digital product, enough was enough. They say that they cannot afford to deliver what they promised. It is as blunt as that. We aint got the cash. Simple mathematics means a simple solution. Don't pay what you can't afford. Perhaps that was not too hard a decision to make in the light of the ludicrously inflated contract of £315m over three years that was initially entered into. Of course the football bosses outside the Premiership are already squealing about breach of faith and contracts being binding in law. They say that many clubs will be plunged into bankruptcy without the soft cushion landing provided every season by television money, that up to now, seemed to just flow relentlessly. Cost cutting. Cost reductions. Staff trimming. Operational reductions are the phrases used by ITV to justify their hardline stance. The real word is survival. If they don't squeeze the football clubs into a deal of around just £50m they might as well pull the plug and turn off all the switches in their television headquarters. With RTE on the brink of insolvency and with all options being pursued at present to slash costs, there is certain to be the same take it or leave it attitude adopted in the context of its contractual obligations. Sports coverage will be no exception. If there are those who believe that the broadcasting chiefs in either UTV or at BBC Northern Ireland are any different when it comes to holding on to cash, then they can start booking a place in cloud cuckoo land as soon as possible. The impact on Gaelic games as on Irish League soccer will be fundamental. It will, however, be much harder for the advocates of greater GAA coverage to take. After all, there is no sign, at least outwardly, that GAA clubs or County Executives, unlike their Irish League counterparts, are facing very real financial difficulties. Money was paid out over the past 12 months by the GAA to a total of 13 County Boards, the sum coming in the end to around £65,000. It is a large sum of money, by any standards. However, when compared with the fact that one Irish League club alone has somehow managed to run up debts in excess of £300,000 and that others are now in constant negotiation with their creditors, it does help put the problems of the respective sports in perspective. With the exception of Linfield, and they have the bonus of being paid a massive yearly rental fee from the Irish Football Association for the use of Windsor Park, every club is facing severe financial difficulty. The spectre of the VAT man and the Inland Revenue man knocking on the front door of all other Irish League clubs demanding cash that does not exist, has become a harsh reality. The expected knock-on effect of reduced cash help via television sources in Britain is not something designed to make soccer club chairmen sleep easily in their beds. Up to now the GAA, in contrast, has been able to keep smiling with the help of record attendances and comfortable additional revenue from the television companies. Just how brightly the smiling tones will continue will depend on how the GAA will cope with what will inevitably be a reduced financial offer in the not too distant future. The contrast buttons between what sport wants and what television is prepared to pay are now being adjusted. Black and white is as stark on an accountant's balance sheet as it is in television coverage. Sport, and especially the GAA, had better get used to it. For no matter how confident the GAA authorities are in relation to being able to pitch their sport as the option to satisfy the viewing customer, the attitude of the broadcasters will hinge on their pitch side costs. The ball, after the events surrounding ITV Digital, is firmly in the broadcasting court. The GAA knows that it has an attractive product. It knows that it has the capacity, especially in terms of its headline games, to draw the type of audience that attracts the marketers and the advertisers. At the end of negotiating game, however, if one side is only prepared to stump up a reduced sum the options are drastically reduced. They are even more reduced if all the pipers decide that they want to play the same tune. %F011C%, @@STYL h,80p3,csr,36 Presidential contest a bid to be first among equals Dermot Crowe IT bears an ingredient essential to a good race even standards in the field but do you really care who becomes the GAA's 34th president next month? A small raid on your imagination probably, a minor scuffle with the senses not a whole lot more. And what exactly are delegates supposed to be voting for given that the issues from one candidate to the next, Noel Walsh excepted, are virtually indistinguishable? They all seem to be saying the same things. Campaigns aren't fought left and right of centre so rallying issues don't arise. Of more pressing concern may be a candidate's roots; his canvassing machine; the flair he shows for diplomacy; if he finished second last time; or even his ability to sing a decent song. The closeness this time is another way of saying that there is no outstanding candidate on offer, nobody surging clear of the pack, and the presence of two candidates from both Munster and Leinster makes further predictions hazardous. But more of that anon. First rule: whoever gets the job will need a good set of tyres. "You could be in Clonakilty today and asked to be in Malin Head tomorrow," says ex-president Joe McDonagh by way of illustration. The incumbent's diary will be stuffed with requests from a race that's prolific at opening pitches and presenting medals. According to McDonagh, a man who visited every school and GAA club in Connacht during the final three months of his presidency, the ceremonial side is now just half the job. Over 30 committees have to be appointed and terms of reference laid down. The president sits in on all important meetings, and chairs Central Council and the Management Committee. But McDonagh had a penchant for the ceremonial side and trawled the land for the cause. "The one I remember most," he recalls, "was being in Clonakilty doing a few schools there, then driving to outside Strabane to open a clubhouse, and then to a Tyrone minors' presentation in Ballygawley that night. I then left at 6am for a management meeting in Dublin the following day, followed by another function in Cahir later in the afternoon." He did the driving himself and the sheer volume of miles increased the potential for an accident, which duly occurred in Nenagh as he headed to yet another presentation in Crossmaglen. Days later he was back on the road wearing a neck brace, making an "emotionally draining" journey to Omagh with a £750,000 donation. In a voluntary post, and holding down a job simultaneously, McDonagh had to make his family part of the juggling act. Holidays in the sun were replaced with Munster final outings and a weekend in Paris while a guest of Paris Gaels. Even then he was accused of fleeing the Colin Lynch controversy the trip had been arranged six months in advance. He backs the recommendation contained in the Strategy Review Committee (SRC) report that future presidents be afforded a driver for life on the road. But he doesn't support the job being made full-time on the grounds that it would lead to a confusion of roles with the Director General. Yet, while the Director General may be salaried, the buck stops with the president he is the public face of the GAA. Seán McCague has so far managed to avoid major controversy but it chased McDonagh around, the Lynch case and Rule 21 being two striking examples. McDonagh made a strong impression on the business end, famously steering the eventual centralisation of the disciplinary and refereeing processes. On Rule 21, he also went out on a limb and paid a price but gained admiration for his gumption. As they will tell you, there is no manual when it comes to the job. No way of predicting that you will sail through untarnished or become stuck in a controversy that spoils your legacy by simply being in the the wrong place at the wrong time. Presidents can move through the years unobtrusively, as Jack Boothman and others did before McDonagh but in the last decade the role has widened considerably and they can make a difference. "The whole commercial side has developed greatly since my time, everything from Croke Park to major sponsorship," says Dr Mick Loftus, president from 1985-'88. In his day the ceremonial side dominated, with commercial concerns left almost exclusively to the Director General. TRADITIONALLY, candidates who finish second are fancied to prevail next time around, which should be good news for Albert Fallon, but this year's contest could buck the trend. Fallon polled poorly last time and exacerbated the loss with a loser's speech which will have done him no favours. Visibly shaken by the emphatic nature of McCague's winning margin, his meandering delivery sent out damaging signals. Speeches do have clout. It is widely accepted that those made by Peter Quinn and McDonagh in their respective hours of defeat stood solidly to them three years later. "I have to accept that it was an error of judgement," Fallon readily admits, "and it tended to bore people to the extent that it came after Joe McDonagh's speech. Anyone that would know me knows I am not given to long-winded speeches ... I should have been short and gracious and stepped aside." He cut a rather forlorn figure immediately after Congress but has since dusted himself down and returns with a realistic chance. But Séamus Aldridge's presence in the race will eat into Fallon's constituency and may remove the advantage traditionally conferred on Leinster candidates. "I have 80 per cent of Leinster without a doubt, but it will all come down to the transfers," argues Aldridge. The province has the most votes, 105, and most recent presidents hail from there. Ulster chips in with 67 votes, while Munster has 58 and Connacht just 32. Despite strong speculation that he will pull out, Walsh remains in the running which is not good news for Seán Kelly's prospects of mopping up in Munster. No one is prepared to say so publicly but the presence of Walsh reminds many of the last election when Kelly's extremely late decision to withdraw didn't help the Clareman's cause. He may be in no hurry to suit Kelly's wishes now that the shoe is on the other foot. Walsh accepts that he is an outsider, and says defeat won't really bother him. The reason he is still in the race is, he claims, to provide himself with a "platform" to air his views on certain issues. And he has been doing much of that lately. While all the other candidates are strongly against the GPA call for a Euro127 weekly expense allowance for inter-county players, Walsh has taken a more liberal line. He says it is time to review the GAA's amateur status the sort of maverick stance that sinks your chances. Such bolshie talk will go down well with the players but they don't hold a vote. The other candidates say their terms in office will probably be spent implementing the SRC report if it is adopted. There are no wild plans or risky ventures. How far you should stay in neutral, however, is another matter. Kelly's perceived weakness is a lack of decisive leadership. Last year he tossed a coin at a Munster Council meeting while holding the casting vote on whether a championship game should be played in Cork or Thurles. He doesn't believe his actions amounted to a cop-out. "I would dispute that vehemently. In all my years being involved in Kerry County Board and other committees, anytime there was a tie there was always a coin tossed. What was I to say? That Cork should be more important than Thurles? It was the fairest thing to do. I have no problem being decisive but I will be fair." KERRY, oddly enough, has never had a GAA president and it may well drum up support for his bid. But if Kelly fails it is not for lack of effort. Although canvassing is prohibited under GAA rules, it is widely acknowledged it goes on. Apart from his presence at a multiplicity of events at home in recent years, Kelly's role as chairman of the international work group has helped him considerably abroad. In the last six months he has been in the US, Australia, England and at the European convention in Luxembourg. With Britain providing 32 votes alone, the same as Connacht, it is obvious how crucial the actions of the overseas' delegations will be. McDonagh famously cultivated them and is now part of PJ McGrath's efforts to do the same. The Mayoman is confident he can reel them in many of the ex-pat's are of Mayo and Galway origin. He will also be relying on Ulster to support him strongly as the province doesn't have a runner. Although a former Connacht Council president, referee in the 1982 All-Ireland football final and current Mayo County Board chairman, he has a fairly low-key profile in the wider public domain. With the likes of McDonagh and John Prenty, the wily Connacht secretary, helping his cause he cannot be ruled out. "There comes a time in your life when you have done everything else and you feel you are ready for it," McGrath says. "I think I have a great chance from the feeling on the ground." Counties have a minimum of four and maximum of ten voting delegates, which was introduced at the 1976 Congress in Ennis. Cork's voting power dropped three-fold as a result and no Munster president, significantly, has been elected since. The new proportional representation system will also make the voting interesting, removing the former practice of delegates switching loyalties midstream. If it goes to a third count there could be a surprise winner. "I think the transfer system will play an important role," states Fallon. "I can't see a candidate being elected on the first count so the transfers will be very important." McCague, unlike his predecessors, has taken a break from work as a national school principal which seems the only way to survive an increasingly hectic post. The days of the broom-closet office are gone. But if the winner proves a tepid operator it won't be anything more than a minor hitch. As one leading official says: "The GAA is like the civil service. If you got a really weak president this time, okay, it won't be exciting but the thing will just keep ticking away." 
