sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    November 25 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/gaa-wary-of-begging-bowl-government-26028486.html }
THE sight of Sports Minister John O'Donoghue on Prime Time  on RTE last Thursday practically grovelling to the GAA for  the use of Croke Park for the 2008 European Championships was unusual to say the least. And when it is taken in the context of the government of which Mr O'Donoghue is a member recently having told the same GAA that they can go and sing for the remaining ?38million of the grant which was promised to them for the rebuilding of Croke Park, it was even more astonishing. The reason for this untypical 'down on my bended knees' approach by the minister is because the date for UEFA making the decision as to whether the joint Scotland-Ireland bid to stage the 2008 European championship is now only days away. And unless the Government can get some sort of tacit agreement from the GAA that they will make Croke Park available for four games in the championships then the joint application is up the swanee. So, we now have a most interesting scenario which involves one of the biggest games of brinkmanship seen in Irish sport or politics for a long time. It is only a couple of weeks ago since Mr O'Donoghue and Taoiseach Bertie Ahern met GAA leaders to confirm what was well known for months, that the last ?38m of the promised Government grant for Croke Park was not going to be paid as originally promised. In other words, the Government was reneging on a solemn promise made to the GAA, a promise which inspired the Association to fast-forward the completion of the Croke Park re-development by several years as compared with their original timetable which would have seen the work on the stadium completed in about five years time. Now the GAA has to set about raising that ?38m from its own resources. While that would not be impossible, it will certainly raise fears all around the country from GAA units that for the foreseeable future there will be less money available from the central coffers of the GAA for development at local level because the Croke Park repayments will swallow up all the GAA's resources. All of which makes Minister O'Donoghue's plea for mercy to the GAA last week even more unusual. In effect he was saying: 'Lads we are not going to give you that ?38m we promised you but I wonder would you ever do the Government a big favour and give the nod to soccer in Croke Park for just four matches in 2008?' Even for a Kerryman it was a rather brazen request in the circumstances even if he did make clear that it was a once-off request and he did not expect or ask the GAA to permanently change their rule about no soccer in Croker. Just a once-off to help a down and out government, you understand. Somehow I doubt if this unusual request, which followed a formal request from Bertie Ahern, will have brought tears to the eyes of Liam Mulvihill, Sean McCague or the minister's county man Sean Kelly. What it may have done was to alert them to the possibility of a bit of bargaining however. If the Government want some sort of official sanction from the GAA about what might take place in Croke Park in 2008 then they will have to pay for that. Maybe not to the extent of that missing ?38m but certainly a fair share of it. The Taoiseach and the minister know as GAA men themselves that the leaders of the GAA cannot give a promise that Croke Park will be available for Euro 2008. Neither can the Central Council or the Management Committee or any county board in Ireland. Only the delegates at the Annual Congress of the GAA next March can take that decision because it involves a change of rule and in the GAA only Congress can do that. But the UEFA decision is due to be made on December 12 next and, as of now, not alone has the GAA not given approval for the use of Croke Park in 2008 but their rules specifically state that soccer cannot be played there. The only glimmer of hope for the Government is that there is a Central Council meeting due for December 5. It is possible that the members of that body, which in theory runs the GAA between Congresses, could decide to recommend that next year's Congress either change the no-soccer rule or make a once-off exception for 2008 in the national interest. It is claimed that staging part of Euro 2008 in Ireland would be worth at least ?50m to the Irish tourism industry and, as a body which takes great pride in being a national organisation, the GAA would almost feel duty bound to facilitate that. But of course there is nothing for nothing in today's world and the Government would clearly have to make a commitment of financial funding to the GAA when and if the state coffers improve in a couple of years. Such a commitment was mentioned by Mr O'Donoghue rather casually when the bad news about the ?38m was delivered but a much more definite commitment would need to be forthcoming now. Rank and file GAA people around Ireland, a clear majority of whom favour opening up Croke Park on a commercial basis for any sport that wants to pay for it, have been annoyed with the Government reneging on its promise regarding the Croke Park funding and their attitude would have hardened as a result. They were suspicious at the timing of the original #60m grant for Croke Park on the eve of the Special Congress at which the GAA delegates were to vote on opening up Croke Park. Then it was seen as a (successful) attempt by the Government to keep soccer OUT of Croke Park because soccer games were needed to anchor the tenancy of the then apparently certain Bertie Bowl and if there was soccer in Croke Park then the Bertie Bowl might not be viable. Now the wheel has turned full circle and the government desperately WANTS soccer in Croke Park, at least four games of soccer in 2008. It is hardly any wonder that your ordinary GAA member is deeply wary of having anything more to do with this particular Government. It will take some very delicate and skilful diplomacy behind the scenes if the GAA is going to be able to make any positive gesture about 2008 before December 12. But Minister O'Donoghue's untypically humble approach to his request will certainly help provided it is re-enforced with a promise of hard cash of course. And this time the Government would have little choice but to actually deliver on the promise. eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
