sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    December 13 2010 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eugene-mcgee/eugene-mcgee-gaa-must-get-online-to-spread-gospel-overseas-26606093.html }
IN recent times I have had many phone calls and emails from the USA complaining about the unavailability of televised GAA games via the Internet in the States. With the advances in communication technology, more and more Irish people over there are viewing Irish-based television programmes on the internet, particularly to learn about our dire economic plight this year. There is always an insatiable demand in the USA from ex-pat GAA followers and, while they are well served during the summer months with live inter-county games, TG4's excellent coverage of the club championship games does not go abroad. The rights for overseas coverage are allocated by the GAA to Setanta Sports and they do not send the club games overseas. TG4 say they would be happy to send their material via the internet to America, but cannot do so without Setanta's permission. Hence the anger growing among thousands of Irish emigrants. About 30 years ago, Setanta Television was started by Michael O'Rourke and Leonard Ryan, allowing GAA followers in the major USA cities -- for about $20 -- to watch GAA games live every summer Sunday in any of the many Irish bars that paid for the service. This was a major breakthrough for the Irish in the United States and Setanta were hailed as life-savers. As Eamon Kelly the seanachai might have said: "Things rested so for many years and most people were happy." Then, in the last 10 years or so, communications technology moved to new levels, most notably the internet. In Ireland people began to watch GAA games live on their computer and gradually Irish emigrants in the USA began to use the internet to watch Irish television programmes in their own homes.  coverage The GAA may have been slow to see the advantages of live television in their earlier days, but they have made up for that over the past 20 years with a huge expansion in live coverage. They also discovered there was big money to be made from television rights, particularly when the RTE monopoly was broken and the GAA could play off competitors against each other, giving us live games from RTE, TG4 , Setanta and TV3. Setanta fought for and gained the rights for GAA coverage outside Ireland and have done well out of that. But internet coverage is a different matter and has now reached a critical stage with its ever-increasing use for viewing television programmes. There is now huge unrest among the Irish GAA community in America about the fact that Setanta is not relaying any live GAA games via the internet from September to June. And what is really upsetting these people is that games which are being shown on TG4 cannot be made available online. Nick Murphy from Tarbert in Kerry is a prominent Irish-American with strong GAA interest and he runs an Irish Cultural Centre in Rockland 25 miles north of New York. He cannot understand why these big club games are not available on the internet and 600 or so members of the centre feel the same. Nick feels that the GAA in Ireland should take a more proactive approach to this problem and not leave so many Irish-Americans disappointed as regards live GAA winter coverage. "The GAA should have more concern for older emigrants, in particular, who would like to watch these games on the internet, but are debarred from doing so," he says. At another level we have large sums of money being spent on coaching and development for native-born American children to play Gaelic football, but the reality is that these lads hardly ever see games from Ireland. It just does not make sense. "Surely the best advertisement for Gaelic games is to see GAA games live on the internet," says Murphy. On the surface Murphy, and people like him, have a very strong case. But things are never simple in the GAA.  rights Television rights are divided into four main categories with live championship games being allocated to RTE and TV3. TG4 have the rights for NFL daylight games as well as club, U-21 and college games. Setanta have the rights for televised floodlit games, but more importantly -- up to now -- for overseas rights of all GAA games, and that includes internet coverage. So, this is the core of the ever-growing annoyance among Irish-Americans. TG4 would be more than happy to show the games online, but it is important to point out that Setanta is a commercial station where practically everything it shows must be paid for. Obviously, Setanta do not believe that broadcasting club GAA games on the internet is commercially viable and this is at the heart of the problem. And even if TG4 were allowed broadcast to the USA, it would cost them very heavily for transmission facilities and all the other components that result in television coverage being so expensive. Former GAA president Sean Kelly stated in San Francisco recently that the GAA should seek to have all USA GAA coverage on a free-to-air basis, but Shane O'Rourke who runs the Setanta operation in San Francisco reckons that's a non-starter. "That could cost the GAA, or somebody, between $10m and $15m a year to run, that's just not on," he told me. And, of course, not even RTE can strictly be called 'free-to-air' because of the licence fee of €160 per year. But Murphy, and his colleagues in other US cities, who have been campaigning for internet GAA rights are determined to push their case. "When an important GAA facility is there and not being used that is nonsense," says Nick. "It probably costs as much to block the internet signals than to make use of it for those GAA games and Setanta should not be stopping others who would be prepared to put the GAA games on the internet." There is a ray of hope, however. While the main GAA television rights for the next three years have been granted, the rights for international coverage are still being negotiated. So, the ball is still in the GAA's court on that one -- including the internet rights in places like America. We await developments with interest. Irish Independent 
