sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    February 04 2008 04:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eugene-mcgee/warring-factions-remember-games-belong-to-the-people-26420931.html }
NO individual person or committee owns the GAA. Not the Central Council, the Provincial Councils, county boards, not even the Cork county board. Nor do inter-county players, no matter how important they believe themselves to be. The GAA belongs to the people who are members of the organisation as well as the huge number of non-members who follow the games at all levels. Indeed, that is the greatest single reason why the GAA has been so successful for the past 124 years, the fact that it draws its sources from the ordinary people of Ireland on whom it can always depend on for support. That is why the GAA is as strong and potent a force of everyday life in counties like Carlow, Longford and Fermanagh, who rarely achieve success at inter-county level, as it is in powerful counties like Cork, Kerry, Tyrone, Kilkenny or Meath. Staunch GAA supporters believe they have a tiny share in the ownership of the organisation -- and they are correct in that. Of all the sports organisations in this country it is the GAA that is first and foremost the sport of the people. Enormous A lot has been written and spoken in recent weeks about the fracas in Cork GAA with the emphasis on the two main factions, the senior county players and the Cork county board. However, hardly any attention has been given to the most important component of Cork GAA, the ordinary followers of football and hurling throughout the length and breath of Ireland's largest county. For over a century GAA games have thrived because of the enormous loyalty of followers of the games at club and county level. Nowhere has that been more obvious than in Cork and particularly in hurling. Gaelic games belong to the people and that is what all sides in Cork would do well to remember. Cork county board or the senior hurlers and footballers DO NOT OWN the Cork county teams. The teams belong to the general membership of the GAA in Cork. Therefore both the county board and the players can rightly be said to have behaved in a disgraceful manner in recent weeks. They are treating the senior teams as if they were their personal property and are using them as weapons in an ongoing civil war which has simmered away in Cork for decades, occasionally bursting out into open warfare as in 2002 and now. Most of us can remember a string of controversies in Cork going back to the 'Three Stripes Affair' in the 1970s which centred on a row over Cork players wearing Adidas boots. What the two parties are now doing is hijacking the good name of Cork county GAA teams for their own selfish reasons. The famous blood-and-bandage jersey of the county, which has so often been worn with pride by some of the greatest hurlers and footballers we have ever seen, is being dragged in the gutter by people who would probably swear that they would be prepared to lay down their lives for the Cork jersey. But on the evidence of recent weeks they would be total hypocrites to say so. How can the Cork hurlers who have achieved such fame, popularity and personal satisfaction from their magnificent achievement in recent years now be party to making Cork GAA a laughing stock all over Ireland? And how can the members of the Cork county board executive come out and say they are running the GAA in Cork for the betterment of ALL GAA members when their behaviour is besmirching the whole ethos of Cork GAA. Current county players, or county board officers in any county, are not owners of the GAA who can use or abuse it as they see fit. They are merely temporary custodians of the organisation for a short period. Their duty is to abide by and build on the traditions of the county built-up over the years by former players and officers. And no county in Ireland has a greater store of tradition or such a collection of former great players as Cork. Do the present Cork county board officers or the present players really believe that they are fulfilling their responsibility in this regard? Fiasco As far as I, and most people outside of Cork are concerned, both sides are equally to blame for the present fiasco which, by the way, is doing serious damage to the GAA as a whole and not just to Cork. The matters in dispute are not of earth-shattering, life-or-death importance to either side. In most other counties both parties would be put sitting down at two sides of a long table and a chairman would insist they remain there until they hammered out a solution. This is what happened when Offaly's football team had a major bust-up with the county board a few years ago and I happened to be the person in the chair. The meetings were rough, very rough at times, but a solution was worked out. But then Offaly GAA egos may not be as big as Cork egos! Because they have been elected to run GAA affairs in the county to the highest possible standard there is a greater onus on the county board to stop this nonsense. Apart from the damage being done to the proud tradition of Cork GAA, the matter is now beginning to affect the wider GAA scene. Meath footballers were left without a game on the opening weekend of the National League and thereby deprived of revenue from the home match they were scheduled to have with Cork. If the footballers and hurlers do not take part in this year's Leagues there will be further problems. In football it will mean that only one county will be relegated from Division 2 while two from the other three divisions will face the drop. That can hardly be fair. In hurling, if Cork are relegated from Division 1 it make a dogs dinner of Division 2 next season. The amount of negative coverage the GAA as a whole is receiving from this Cork debacle is grossly unfair to the other 31 counties at a time when the GAA had been doing well in the media business. As an important constituent of the overall GAA family, Cork GAA has a duty to stop this collateral damage to the parent body and to do so they must set aside their own selfish positions for the overall good. In particular, the ordinary GAA follower in Cork, of which there must be up to 100,000, should not be embarrassed by their own leading officers and players in this manner. These people are the real owners of the GAA and it is their voluntary work at club and schools level which provides both county players and board officials with the material and resources to produce the many glorious Cork teams over the years. Neither party in this dispute has any moral right to refuse to swallow their pride in order to stop it. All they need is the moral courage to do so and it is a sad reflection on both parties in our greatest GAA county that they seem to lack that. 
