sport gaa
{  
    August 17 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/money-issue-burns-bright-25935143.html }
FOR most of the big changes in the GAA in recent years the catalyst has  been money. GAA officers used to claim they would never allow sponsorship. They did for the money. They claimed we would never see the name of an alcoholic drink company attached to a GAA competition. We did for the money. They claimed that we would never see 'foreign games' played in Croke Park. We will for the money. How ironic it is that how the 'new' money is to be disbursed poses the greatest problem facing the GAA today. All because the GAA never planned ahead or took cognisance of what happened in other formerly amateur sports. It is nearly 20 years ago since I first started writing that the biggest threat to the GAA's then cosy lifestyle was the influx of big money into the organisation. It started off in a very small way when PJ Carroll & Co sponsored the first All Stars in 1971. It took over a decade before commercial sponsorship for the games became a fact of life but then the floodgates opened and money poured into the GAA from sources other than gate receipts at a level that was was beyond the dreams of most GAA officials. GAA legislators not being noted for their ability to see beyond their noses, kept taking in the money and never analysed the long-term impact the arrival of this new money might have. Now they know! For years and years GAA officers were quite content to seek out more and more sponsorship which in turn led to massive promotion and glamourisation of hurling and football that the GAA themselves would never have been capable of providing. The Guinness treatment of the hurling championship and the Coca-Cola promotion of the Ireland-Australia games are the best examples of this. So sponsorship as well as bringing money directly to the GAA's coffers also hugely boosted the attendances at big championship games which meant a further bonanza. All the time GAA bosses rubbed their hands with glee, got more and more greedy as can be seen from the very high admission charges for ordinary games in league and championship, and some of them believed that when it came to raking in the money they could walk on water. Just as in the real world of commerce those who benefited from the financial bonanza rarely gave a thought to the people who generated the money - the players. For 100 years or more players were the lost tribe of the GAA, who could be treated like hired hands at the beck and call of their masters the county board officers. Books could be written listing the scandalous treatment of county players by some county boards with regard to meals after games, travelling arrangements, lack of proper medical and post-injury treatment etc. No better example than that of the Kildare county board 20 years ago to provide Larry Tompkins, who was the in America, with a ONE-WAY TICKET home for a championship game. Larry's subsequent defection to Cork provided a very costly lesson for Kildare. Inevitably the players began to fight back and seek their rights, to the astonishment of GAA officials who were unprepared. With so many players involved in business, having third-level qualifications, their voices became more strident and led to the formation of GPA. That was a landmark because for the first time the players now had an organisation to articulate their views and put pressure on the GAA itself. Very quickly some top GAA people decided to act and a whole raft of benefits were brought in such as free gear, free tickets for matches and greatly increased travelling expenses - all small potatoes - and as far as players were concerned GAA officials believed that throwing players a few scraps from the rich man's table would stem the flow of opposition and unrest but they were wrong. All this time the GAA were appointing more and more paid people in every county mainly in the coaching and administrative field and there are probably 500 people on the GAA payroll at this stage. In addition players were being asked to train four or five times a week for nothing by managers who in many cases were being highly paid. Indeed in many counties several people are being paid large sums of money to supervise players. Many managers are earning ?50,000 a year or more made up of cash from county boards as expenses, cash from Supporters Clubs under the counter and some get the free use of a car and have their telephone bills paid. I know one county who paid a sports psychologist ?15,000 to get them by the first round of the championship and another who paid over ?25,000 to a trainer. Armagh claimed that they spent around ?500,000 in winning the All-Ireland. Players claim with some justification that the GAA's preaching about 'amateur organisation' is a bit rich since so many non-players are getting paid for what they do. Most of the big championship games are now covered by security companies with up to 50 people getting paid to do work that was formerly done by volunteers. Hardly any wonder that some players are totally disgusted at the hardline attitude of the GAA towards their demands when so many people are being paid for their involvement. Players of course play because they love doing so. They are honoured to represent their counties and go to extraordinary lengths to give their best. Some players leave for work at 7am, go straight to training from work and don't get home 'till near midnight and do this four or five times a week in the summertime. Very few players are prepared to turn their back on the county because of lack of financial reward such is the power of 'the county jersey'. As some players see it, the GAA is callously capitalising on this loyalty in the knowledge that players will nearly always turn out for the county regardless. But then came the Cork hurlers' strike last year and suddenly the goalposts were shifted. The county board was forced to respond and now Cork are in the All-Ireland final, hardly a coincidence. The fracas last week over the Paddy Power promotion was nasty, vicious and unedifying for the GAA. There was nothing in the rulebook which made the promotion illegal and the GAA should have known that. The GPA got on their high horse claiming the hurlers were exploited but were they not better off with ?750 for their day's work than getting nothing? Sniping by the various factions involved here, the GAA, the GPA, individual players and commercial sponsors will merely aggravate a serious problem. Players who in effect have a second, unpaid job as county players in terms of hours spent at the job must get a greater, if still tiny, slice of increased GAA revenue largely generated by them. Only a round table, all party conference will sort out this problem. Megaphone negotiations will simply cause the present deep divisions and anger to fester. GAA officials still do not seem to realise the depth of hatred many players have for them. They need to learn fast and take decisive, conciliatory but fair action to sort out the money problem quickly. Judged by normal negotiation criteria it is not a particularly difficult problem to solve. Email: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
