sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    December 29 2014 11:20 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/eugene-mcgee-wise-words-from-brian-odriscoll-will-resonate-with-the-gaa-30869343.html }
I have never given much credence to GAA people announcing New Year resolutions in relation to GAA activities. Because not alone do they usually prove totally incapable of carrying them out, but often times these same GAA people, be they elected officers or otherwise, do not even carry out resolutions that have been passed by their own county boards or other units or even at GAA annual congresses.  Over the years, I have seen resolutions passed about such matters as curbing payments to team managers, abuse of young players through burnout, controlling the sideline behaviour of team managers at big championship games, publishing correct team sheets for match programmes, insisting that club games be played regularly during the season rather than at the whim of county managers resulting in county finals being played in Christmas week and numerous other apparently sensible things. Trouble GAA people have no trouble passing resolutions at their meetings - the problem is getting them implemented and GAA life can be very different once the various legislators walk out of the meeting places. So New Year GAA resolutions are not for me I'm afraid. But in the tiny gap in the GAA playing season between the end of the 2014 championships - with the playing of the Tipperary football final on St Stephen's Day - until next Saturday when official inter-county games commence for 2015 it is opportune to reflect on some serious matters that should concern people who have decision-making powers. And not just GAA people either. Recently Brian O'Driscoll commented in this newspaper that it was not because of their work in the gym that All Black rugby players have become the best in the world. Referring to the Ireland rugby scene he had this to say: "I can see at the rugby academies there is a huge focus on scores in the weight room as opposed to whether they can throw a 10-metre pass on the run. "They should be rugby players becoming athletes, not athletes becoming rugby players," he stated. A telling comment that could equally apply to Gaelic football. The implication, of course, is that other rugby nations, including Ireland, are concentrating on the physical development of their players on the assumption this will make them world-class performers. This immediately brings to mind a similar idea being foisted on GAA players at all levels nowadays - that the key to excelling at football lies with more and more physical preparation. The aim is to make bodies bigger, stronger and with more stamina with the assumption that this will inevitably make better footballers. At this moment in time it is not, in my opinion, possible to prove or disprove these theories simply because they have not been tested over a long enough period of time. This proof may well come in time, or it may not. But when I hear about second level college teams being brought into the gym at 6.30am to undergo strength and conditioning (S & C) work before they commence their classes in a vague belief that this will make them play better football later in the day I wonder about the rationale being used. I also wonder about the level of football expertise being practised by those who organise this sort of training. As long as what they are doing is correct I have no problem. I only have a problem if they are not. Ireland is full of young men and women who are well qualified and naturally talented in the science of physical and mental preparation for sport and this can only be a good thing. However, the most important development in any sport is the art of making sports people better at the skills of their actual sport. Skill The science of sport can be acquired academically, but the art of perfecting skill requires some different qualities. I know some S & C people who do not have those attributes and openly admit that. The imbalance in inter-county preparation whereby players train on average between 10 and 15 times per competitive game is totally out of line with other major team sports and is bad for players. This becomes even more serious if the quality of those training sessions is heavily biased in favour of physical work as opposed to skill work, as is often the case in the club game in particular. It is about time some scientific analysis was undertaken to show that time spent perfecting skills was more important than concentrating on creating mini-monsters in jerseys. Modest Duffy sets a fine example for sports administrators Most leading GAA officials and players tend to be genuinely modest about their achievements but occasionally we see exceptions to this, a trait best described by Winston Churchill when writing about British Prime Minister Clement Attlee - he described him as "a modest man who has a great deal to be modest about". The re-appointment of Paraic Duffy last week as director general of the GAA for a second term brought the word modesty to mind because Duffy is the epitome of that virtue. Despite being the head of the largest organisation in the country, with the possible exception of the Catholic Church, the Monaghan man has remained extremely competent but unassuming during his first seven-year term; of course, his immediate predecessor Liam Mulvihill set the standard in that regard. When we consider the behaviour of some other sports administrators who believe they can walk on water, GAA members should be grateful for Duffy's calm and reassuring personality that sets a high standard for other officers throughout the Association. The GAA is never short of controversies, from Garth Brooks to the Sky television deal, not to mention the games themselves, but Duffy retains a remarkable sense of perspective on the vast range of items that cross his desk. The GAA is lucky he decided to seek a second term. Also noteworthy is the retirement of Michael Delaney as head of the Leinster Council, a man largely in the mould of Duffy, who pushed Leinster GAA to new heights. And I welcome his successor Michael Reynolds, a Leitrim man with vast experience of Leinster GAA too. Irish Independent 
