sport gaa
{ Rachel Wyse 
    April 04 2014 10:38 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/sky-deal-can-lift-gaa-onto-world-stage-30157440.html }
As a young girl I remember going to Croke Park. I remember how different it was then. My dad always gravitated to the upper tier of the Cusack Stand. We would climb the never-ending steps within those tired, grey concrete towers to reach a summit high above Dublin.  I recall looking down on a pitch that once existed at the rear of the Cusack Stand. On hard wooden seats we sat, each place separated by metal handles. When the wind blew it whistled through the broken sheets of plastic constituting a gable end. Such a description of Croke Park means little to today's young people. Why? Because the GAA's hierarchy recognised the need for change and embraced the concept. They had a vision for the future home of the Association and had the courage and business acumen to make their vision a reality. With the passing of time the personnel have changed, but the mission statement of GAA leaders remains the same. And I wonder is it fair that sectors of the GAA community, who chose to embrace and revel in the progress of so many facets of the Association, criticise such a mindset when GAA leaders seek to expose their games to a global audience? Irrespective of the deal with Sky Sports, I would suggest the GAA has been served by men with some of the sharpest business brains this country has ever seen. I acknowledge that, as Ireland's national sports, gaelic games enjoy a distinct advantage, but I wonder has the foundation ever been in a more assured position? In recent times there has been a willingness to embrace such formidable situations, from the abolition of Rule 42 to opening the doors of an iconic arena to games long seen as the GAA's main competitors. EMOTIVE And then there was the huge burden of history. Events of the past made the issue emotive and highly controversial. There was an easier option. Association leaders would have received considerable support had the decision been taken not to put the motion before Congress. Of course, the financial implication was considerable, but the opening of Croke Park had a historical context which was of much greater significance. And, with the benefit of hindsight, I believe most people would agree the leaders were correct in their willingness to embrace change and engage in a subject that understandably created considerable conflict. Recent history has given us very clear patterns of behaviour from the men chosen to guide the Association and I believe claims that these same men had any agenda, other than the development of their games, when they granted tv rights to Sky Sports, to be unjust. Does this week's development undermine the ethos of the Association? Perhaps, as a sport played by amateur people with 14 games aired solely on a subscription channel, it is deemed to be in conflict with the values of gaelic games. I believe it naive to suggest the GAA in every facet of its existence is an amateur organisation. Such suggestions are misleading, because the playing of games exists under a very different ethos to the business aspect of the Association. For the GAA to thrive, this has to be the case. Reflect on your last visit to Croke Park. Recall the facilities at your disposal, the view of the action, the comfort in which you enjoyed the game. Think about the nearest hurling or football field in your vicinity. Are they complemented with floodlights, is there an all-weather training pitch to supplement the main playing area? How many of these developments were funded by an income stream which originated from headquarters? Do we seriously believe that if the GAA was amateur in its approach to their business dealings that the facilities supporters take for granted either locally or on Jones's Road would be the same? I appreciate that, without the volunteerism and the amateur status of players in the Association, everything changes. But the same would be true if the GAA wasn't professional in their marketing and commercial activities. If the Sky Sports deal undermines the GAA ethos, then I would suggest this ethos has been undermined a long time ago. The successful endeavours of the GAA in this area not only make the involvement of supporters a far more enjoyable experience, but assist in stimulating a young kid's interest in playing the games. I wonder if the backdrop to an All-Ireland final would be able to compete with an Irish rugby international or a Champions League final if the GAA was not so successful commercially. At a young age pride in the jersey or stories of legendary feats of yesteryear do little to ignite the spark of interest necessary in the constant battle to capture the attention of Irish youth. The sense of occasion generated in a wonderful amphitheatre on All-Ireland final day does turn heads; children capture images that drive them to the local field in an effort to emulate their heroes. The GAA's exposure on the Sky Sports platform will only enhance such realities. Children identify their heroes of the Premier League and the rugby world with the Sky brand and, in those young minds now, GAA is on an equal footing. Any perceptions of an inferior standing are diminished. Such a statement is not intended to appear arrogant. It is simply an observation of the standing of the Sky Sports brand in the world of sport. Regardless of people's scepticism, the fact is this week's news is a remarkable development for Irish people who find themselves living abroad. For many, the move was forced upon them and, having ready access to something which was once such a stable component of their lives back home, must provide comfort. Those people were the future of the GAA. They might still be, just in another land. The unique opportunity afforded by the brand new TV deal might just help a greater number rekindle their love for a game they know so well. Change is never easy. The unknown can be a scary place. But some things will never change. Hurling and gaelic football will always be this nation's games. They will always belong to the people of Ireland. They will always belong to the parish; To the volunteers in the local field who coach and guide. Successes will always emanate from the value placed in a jersey. Sky Sports could never change this. But a greater number of people can become aware of it. Surely that's a good thing. Burton can give Jonjo another big day to savour It would be remiss of me on the first Saturday in April not to mention the greatest racing spectacle on earth.  The Grand National is something of a lottery as it is a 40-horse handicap run over an extended trip of four and a half miles. I've gone for a big-priced each-way horse BURTON PORT at 20/1, trained by Jonjo O'Neill and ridden by fellow north Cork native Brian Harding. The Cotswold trainer says he is "the right horse for the job" as he aims to capture the Aintree prize for the second time as a trainer, after Don't Push It in 2010. The Jackdaws Castle team are certainly no strangers to success on the big days and it's easy to be encouraged by his three winners at Cheltenham Festival last month. Irish Independent 
