sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    February 13 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/breheny-beat-daft-to-blame-croker-chiefs-for-lack-of-rugby-coverage-26058423.html }
EXCUSE me for a moment, but have I got this right? The GAA are partially  responsible for having next Saturday's Ireland-England rugby international blanked off most of  the TV screens in the country. Can you believe it? With the exception of the International Rules games against Australia and low key matches against Scottish shinty enthusiasts, the GAA has no international outlet. Yet according to Arts Minister, Sile de Valera, they must share in the blame for allowing Sky Sports to keep the Ireland-England game all to themselves. It underlines once again what we always knew anyway. The GAA is to blame for just about every difficulty. From flooding on the Shannon and in Ringsend, to traffic chaos on the M50 and the Ennis Road, to secondary teacher unrest, it's all down to the GAA. Or so some people would have you believe. Even allowing for such popular misconceptions, is it not testing the nation's credulity faculties to suggest that the GAA helped to keep Ireland v England off the majority of TV screens. According to Sile de Valera, it worked like this. Under international regulations, Governments are empowered to ring fence sporting events of major national importance so as to ensure that they are screened on free TV channels, as opposed to Sky Sports, which is available on subscription only. The Irish Government were keen to nominate major GAA, soccer and rugby matches as protected events which would always be available on free local channels. In Ireland's case, that meant RTE or TV3. However, the GAA, IRFU and FAI objected, saying it would greatly reduce their earning power if such a restriction was imposed. Basically, they contended that with little apparent buying competition between RTE and TV3 (except for Champions League soccer), RTE would use their near-monopoly position to keep the TV rights fees artificially low. It would, according to the FAI do "irreparable damage" to their TV policy. The IRFU argued that for many years RTE ruthlessly exploited its monopoly position. The GAA argued that ring fencing major events would do them more damage than soccer or rugby because of their dependence on domestic TV coverage. The GAA were perfectly right of course. The FAI and the IRFU know that even if they were preventing from dealing with Sky Sports, both BBC and ITV will always be interested in international soccer and rugby games, whereas the GAA have to deal exclusively with RTE, TV3 and TG4 which, is an off-shoot of RTE. And since TV3 has never bid for the GAA contract, they can scarcely be deemed as serious opposition to RTE for Gaelic Games. Even if soccer and rugby internationals were ring-fenced for RTE, there would still be considerable interest from BBC, ITV and Sky Sports. Not so with Gaelic Games, which is essentially an exclusive Irish interest. So Sile de Valera is, at the very least, disingenuous when she includes the GAA in the blame parade for next Saturday's rugby black-out on terrestrial stations. She could, by way of solving what is a growing problem for sports fans, have included rugby and soccer internationals on the protected list, while leaving GAA to its own devices. In reality, the GAA have no option anyway but to deal with local stations which are freely available since it's unlikely that Sky Sports would be interested in buying up hurling and football for their exclusive viewing packages. The main reason the GAA objected to having their big games placed on the protected list was to create an impression that they had some bargaining power when it came to negotiating with RTE. If the Government decreed that Gaelic Games had to be shown on local channels it would leave RTE (or TV 3 if they ever make a bid) in a very strong position as the GAA could never even consider dealing with an outside broadcaster such as ITV or BBC. It's most unlikely that will happen anyway since GAA members simply wouldn't accept a situation where hurling and football coverage wasn't available free of charge in every part of the country. In that sense, the GAA is self-regulatory so there is no need for the Government to intervene, unlike in soccer and rugby, both of which have an international dimension and market. That's why it's unfair to implicate the GAA in the controversy over Sky's exclusive rights to this weekend's game. It's a shoddy and opportunistic example of spreading the blame as far and wide as possible in the hope that none of it will plop back on the Government's desk. Dodging responsibility may be an essential requirement in politics, particularly in the run-up to a General Election, but that's hardly a reason to ask people to buy the absolutely daft notion that the GAA have anything to do with keeping Ireland-England off most television screens on Saturday. Nice try, but it won't stick. Kildare's six sub error against Sligo on Sunday could cost them dearly as it's unlikely the GAC will be as generous as the Leinster Council who granted Na Fianna a reprieve when they over-dosed on subs against Sarsfields in the Leinster club semi-final last December. Kildare's confusion arose over the blood substitutes rule which allows as many inter-changes as required if they arise from cuts. However, only 20 players can be used in the course of a game, whereas Kildare played 21. The blood rule has also been introduced at club level in every county this year. It's an excellent idea but will need to be very carefully administered by clubs and officials. Otherwise, we can look forward to all sorts of disputes over the number of subs used. It's time for a major information blitz; otherwise the appeal rooms will be jammed all summer. 
