sport gaa
{ Cathal Dennehy 
    July 27 2017 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/no-need-for-stricter-drug-testing-in-gaa-treacy-35972265.html }
Sport Ireland says it has no plans to introduce a 'whereabouts' programme for GAA players despite two inter-county players testing positive for performance-enhancing drugs in the past two years. Monaghan footballer Thomas Connolly was banned for two years in 2015 after testing positive for the anabolic steroid stanozolol, while earlier this year it was revealed that Kerry's Brendan O'Sullivan had served a suspension in two parts after testing positive for methylhexaneamine, a banned stimulant. GAA players can currently be tested in-competition after matches or out-of-competition at fixed training times, but unlike many of those tested by Sport Ireland are not required to submit daily whereabouts to enable testing at any time of day. Sport Ireland CEO John Treacy yesterday rejected any assertion that the GAA had a doping culture and explained why their players undergo less invasive testing. "The GAA is not a high-risk sport, in our view," he said at an anti-doping media briefing in Dublin. "We view athletics and cycling as high-risk, rugby as somewhat high-risk. "It's based on the number of positives internationally and our experience in recent years. If we thought a GAA player was high-risk, we'd target-test any player." Sport Ireland conducted a total of 97 tests on GAA players last year compared to 155 on Irish cyclists and 250 on Irish athletes, with just 40 of those 97 tests out-of-competition. Treacy believes the lack of financial incentives in the GAA makes doping a less attractive option. "Worldwide, if you look at positive tests, it always correlates to money in the sport. In rowing, you have very few positive tests because there are not the same monetary rewards as in other sports." There were just 17 blood tests conducted on GAA players last year, with 38 in rugby, 59 in cycling and 115 in athletics. Given it is the sole method to detect the use of human growth hormone (HGH), the low number of blood tests, coupled with the lack of round-the-clock testing, appears a system ripe for exploiting if a player decided to cross the ethical line. While not ruling out the introduction of a 'whereabouts' system, Treacy admitted it's not on the table for now. "We haven't gone there yet, but it's something we'll continue to review," he said. "If we did believe we had a serious issue in the GAA it's something we'd be pushing very hard for, but I think what we have in place at the moment is fine. From a practical point of view, given the number of players on a panel, it seems the sensible approach." Sport Ireland spent €1.7m on its anti-doping programme last year - a €100,000 increase from 2015. With the average cost of a test running to roughly €500, it has welcomed any national governing bodies willing to pay for additional testing under its User Pays Programme. Last year, 275 tests were conducted under the scheme, with the IRFU, Cycling Ireland and Athletics Ireland among those contributing. 
 
Close
 / Subscribe to The Throw-In, Independent.ie's weekly Championship podcast, for the best in GAA discussion and analysis every Monday, with some of the biggest names in football and hurling from Joe Brolly, Tomás Ó'Sé, Brendan Cummins and John Mullane. Subscribe and listen to The Throw-In podcast on iTunes or SoundCloud. Irish Independent 
