sport gaa
{  
    February 24 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/sport/other-sports/foreign-game-rocknroll-set-to-dismantle-rule-42-27830467.html }
How the founding fathers of the GAA must have smiled down from their premium seats in Eternal Reward Park!How their hearts must have swelled with Gaelic pride at the sight of young men and women queing through the night, around blocks, through wind, rain, hail, sleet and the rest, to secure tickets for Croke Park in the summer time. How the founding fathers of the GAA must have smiled down from their premium seats in Eternal Reward Park! How their hearts must have swelled with Gaelic pride at the sight of young men and women queing through the night, around blocks, through wind, rain, hail, sleet and the rest, to secure tickets for Croke Park in the summer time. But what's that - they are not tickets to a GAA match, but for a musical event. Eh? Ah... it must be the All Ireland finals of Scor or something? No, not so much as a set dancing brogue or an uileann pipe will be in sight at Headquarters on the three nights in July. These eager young folk were in fact queuing to buy tickets for a ROCK CONCERT! Well, if rock'n'roll isn't a foreign game, Final Whistle doesn't know what is. Surely this is in direct contravention of the controversial and topical Rule 42? In case you live on the dark side of Pluto and have somehow been teleported without so much as the Sunday Indo sports section to read on the way, it has just been agreed that Rule 42, the one that bans the playing of 'foreign games' on GAA pitches, has been passed for debate at the impending national congress of the association. But hang on... Final Whistle can just about recall through the fog of time going to see the Pittsburgh Steelers against... eh.. the Chicago Bears back in 1996 - my first time sitting in the upper tier of the new Cusack Stand. Is American Football not a foreign game? The answer's in the question, kids. The debate isn't really to do with 'foreign' games - if somebody wanted to hold an International Luge Chamionships at Croke Park, the GAA might object, but it wouldn't be on grounds of principle. Rock music is okay. Garth Brooks was okay. The Special Olympics was okay. Celine Bleedin' Dion was okay. What it boils down to is that there are two games which GAA hardliners object to being played on the hallowed turf - the other two in the top three sports in Ireland - rugby and soccer. It also just happens to be the case that the IRFU and the FAI will be looking for somewhere to play big international matches when their current shared home at Lansdowne Road is closed for redevelopment. There are reasons why your average GAA member might be opposed to specifically rugby or soccer being played on its main pitch. And there are reasons why the more hardline GAA member might want to keep the ban in place. The former argument is that the GAA shouldn't do anything to facilitate the playing or promotion of soccer and rugby, because they are in the direct competition with Gaelic games. This is quite a good argument, but it can also be said that most kids play more than one sport. Sports are not mutually exclusive - the GAA is more popular at the moment than ever before, but the same is true for rugby and soccer. The rise of one does not necessarily mean the decline of the others. That's not to mention the millions of euro the GAA would earn from their rival organisations, which coudl then be invested into gaelic games at underage level. And given the current popularity of gaelic games, wouldn't it be a marvellous and confident step for the GAA to say 'We are not afraid of rugby and soccer and are big enough to let them use our marvellous facility as long as they pay us huge amounts of money which we can pump into promoting our games among children and pay off the debt on our stadium. We are more concerned about the future than the past.' The past. This a major reason for hardline oppostition to rugby and soccer matches being played in Croke Park - the fact that the two games have their origin across the Irish Sea. To many, the GAA is more than just sport, it is tied inextricably to an Irish nationalist identity. We are often reminded that it is only 85 years ago that British troops opened fire indiscriminatly on players and spectators in Croke Park. Given the GAA's love of eulogising its own history, its great players and classic games, it's entirely understandable that some Associaton members would have difficulty with listening to 'God Save the Queen' under the Union Jack at Croke Park, before an Ireland versus England Six Nations match. And you can bet your bottom euro the same hardliners would have less problem with La Marseilles being played in Croke Park. For the these hardliners, Croke Park is hallowed ground and opening it up to perfidious albion would be tantamount to treason. But, for example, France or Poland can fulfil fixtures in a variety of sports against German teams, and were doing so not long after the second world war with all the flag raising and national anthems that entailed - perhaps some people in the GAA could learn a thing or two from the continent about not dwelling in the past. There is an amount of validity to both sides of the Rule 42 argument, but one argument that Final Whistle won't abide is that the government or tax payers in general should have a right to dictate what goes on in Croke Park because the GAA received government grants. The Rule 42 debate is the concern of the GAA members. Nobody else. That it will be debated at congress can only be a healthy thing. But healthy or not, even if 65 per cent of GAA members vote to let a soccer or rugby match be played at their Headquarters, that won't be enough. Which means it probably won't go through anyway and all this arguing is a waste of time. If Final Whistle is being honest, should enough GAA members vote for Croke Park to be opened up, part of me would regret it. Part of the appeal of going to Croke Park is the history of the place, how it is a unique pilgrimage and has a purity to it. But times change. If Bono is allowed bring his foreign rock music into the GAA, the least he could do is round up Koffi Annan and the boys to go to GAA congress and bring a shiny, happy ending to the situation. He could write an anthemic rock song about it, called 'How to dismantle Rule 42?' 
