sport gaa
{ Sean Ryan 
    March 25 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/bidding-war-fails-to-ignite-26247731.html }
We may be spoilt for choice when it comes to choosing which TV channel we watch, but only one appears interested in buying the rights to Gaelic games. S We may be spoilt for choice when it comes to choosing which TV channel we watch, but only one appears interested in buying the rights to Gaelic games. SEÁN RYAN reports on why RTE are holding the aces in the face of technological advances while KEVIN KIMMAGE finds Sky and TV3 in dismissive mood. WHEN Tim O'Connor, RTE's Head of Sport, begins negotiations this week for coverage of the Gaelic games season he will go into battle with a few aces up his sleeve. For a start, the bidding war which the GAA hoped to foster on media rights through the appointment of British TV consultants Oliver and Ohlbaum hasn't materialised. It never even got off the ground. Secondly, for some strange reason, the GAA have already agreed a three-year deal worth over £5.5m with Setanta for overseas rights, video rights, mobile phone and internet rights. This is a classic case of putting the cart before the horse, as Setanta depend on RTE's coverage of the games to market them overseas. Thirdly, no other Irish broadcaster has the resources to cover the championship to the extent which RTE does. Last year, RTE paid over £1.5m to the GAA, but it cost them three times that amount to produce the finished product for the viewer. No other broadcaster is in a position to allocate such resources to one sport. The GAA's strategy has also led to the present anomaly where, although the last contract expired on December 31, games are still being shown live on TG4, and league highlights have featured on RTE. A new deal was supposed to be in place for the start of the year and, with this in mind, Oliver and Ohlbaum issued broadcasters with a list of packages designed to attract bids. The list included: * The Championship * The National League * The Club Championship * County finals * The extra games in the Championship * Radio rights * TV magazine programme This was later amended to incorporate the club championship and the county finals as one package. One seasoned observer was not impressed. "The skill is to make sure all packages are viable in themselves," he said, "but this was very bad packaging, cut up in a peculiar way, with not much evidence of local knowledge." The GAA obviously hoped that breaking up their programme in this way would attract new broadcasters but TV3, concerned about the viability of the package, didn't pursue it. It wasn't an auspicious start for Oliver and Ohlbaum, the TV consultants who are reported to be costing the GAA £2,500 a day. Liam Mulvihill, Director General of the GAA, also gave a couple of hostages to fortune in his annual report with his criticism of RTE's promotion of the live games, and his querying of the value of live double-headers on Sundays. In regard to the promotion of the games, Mulvihill was obviously referring to the way Sky hype up their live soccer games. Such comparisons are always going to place RTE at a disadvantage, for Sky spends more on promotions than RTE spends on sport. That's the reality when the market is only a tiny fraction of your rivals'. It is also a bit harsh on RTE who commissioned Setanta's excellent Breaking Ball programme, which serves as a more than adequate promotion vehicle for Gaelic games. Regarding the double-headers, it is well known that RTE have always favoured covering one game live each Sunday during the championship, with clashing games switched to Monday nights. However, the provincial councils, to whom RTE pay a separate fee for each live game, wouldn't agree to move their fixtures, hence the double-up. The list of excuses for refusing to give the green light to Monday games included: no trains to bring the fans; the Gardaí would object; it wouldn't suit rural communities with cows to be milked, etc. Strange, when one considers how the rural community attends sporting events like the Galway races in such large numbers. No one denies that the GAA presents a brilliant programme of games each year; the problem is the cost of televising even one game. To do a decent six-camera broadcast of a game costs £25,000, and this rises to £40,000 for an All-Ireland semi-final or final when up to 12 cameras are used. In addition to cameras and outside broadcasting units, the broadcaster often has to organise scaffolding and lighting at venues. Not even advertising at premium rates can cover that cost, plus the rights fee, in a market as small as Ireland. If it weren't for the licence fee, RTE probably wouldn't even be in a position to bid for the games. At present RTE derives 65% of its revenue from advertising and 35% from the licence fee. "Gaelic games deliver an audience, but not a profit," is how an RTE source explained it. "If TV3 thought they could make a profit with the advertising they'd be into the GAA like a flash, but it's just not on." Another TV consultant offered his analysis: "The GAA is a huge property in Ireland, but not in world television. When you talk to English or American people they think hurling is great, but it's a niche market, and the GAA have done extremely well to get the overseas money they have. It's not like selling Ireland playing in an international rugby or soccer match, and that's why the GAA and Setanta are so close. "Domestically, RTE has a monopoly, and that's a problem everyone faces. But RTE needs the GAA just as the GAA needs RTE. It's a classic market tension: they each know that neither party wants to walk away, and they hope that reason will prevail. "The GAA are dealing with a broadcaster which is both a commercial animal and a public service animal. GAA, soccer, rugby and racing fans pay licence fees, and RTE can't duck out of its responsibility in these areas. They will try to get them as cheaply as possible, but they won't duck out. "Advertising depends on the ratings and rugby or soccer internationals and the top GAA games all deliver much higher advertising revenue than RTE would get on a normal Saturday afternoon/Wednesday night/Sunday afternoon. That is because the top line games attract the premium advertising rates." With advertising not capable of footing the bill, a dedicated GAA channel doesn't appear to be a runner in the new digital age. All the experts agree it is a possibility, but they point to the Manchester United channel (MUTV), which hasn't made a penny profit yet. A GAA channel would require huge production costs, reckoned to be an investment of £20-30m a year, which are currently borne by their broadcast partners. The return on this investment could be as little as £10m a year, which would make it a bigger white elephant than any stadium currently under consideration. ONE observer said it "is more likely that more digital cable stations would appear with more local programming, and thus more local GAA games. But the championship, league and club championship would still need the bigger platform which RTE provides." Another view is that, with the technologies converging down one pipe into the standard TV set, it will be possible within five years for people to get matches on a pay-per-view basis on the internet. "There are vast sums for the GAA in that, if they do it right," asserts one TV expert. "It's going to come, but when is the question. What's lacking is the (broadband) technology capable of taking it into the homes. "It's most important for sports federations to get a website set up so that when pay-per-view comes they will have the infrastructure ready to take off. All the deals I'm doing are done with that possibility in mind." The experience of Italy, where soccer-mad fans ignored pay-per-view games because there was too much soccer available elsewhere, offers a warning note. How many, for instance, would pay £10 to watch Clare v Tipperary in the first round of the Munster Championship on TV? The current culture, so used to RTE's coverage, mightn't support pay-per-view. However, the benefits are more likely to be seen wherever Irish emigrants gather. At present, they are served by Setanta, who have deals with Tara and Sky in England, Fox and ESPN in America, and another in Australia, apart from serving a multitude of Irish pubs around the globe. If there is a growth area, this is possibly where it will be ... and Setanta have wisely tied up the rights for the next three years. Last year, media rights earned the GAA £2.5m, with a further £0.5m paid out to provincial councils by RTE. This week's confrontation between Tim O'Connor, who will be bidding on behalf of RTE and TG4, and the representatives of Oliver and Ohlbaum is unlikely to produce a major increase in fees, but it should ensure Setanta can fulfil their side of the bargain. 
