sport gaa
{ Ralph Riegel 
    July 29 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/a-dark-week-in-the-history-of-cork-gaa-37158942.html }
In death, as in life, the passions of Liam Miller's all-too-short 36 years were there for all to see - his family, his rural Cork community and his beloved sports, both soccer and GAA. At the Church of St John the Baptist in Ovens, Co Cork, on a freezing day last February, Liam Miller was remembered for "living the dream" with soccer clubs including Celtic, Manchester United, Sunderland, Leeds United, QPR, Hibernian and Cork City before he lost his brave battle with cancer. He was also capped 21 times by Ireland. Yet his Requiem Mass also heard about his proud exploits on the GAA field - starring for local club, Éire Óg, and even making it on to a Cork juvenile development squad. Liam eventually captained his Éire Óg side to a Cork title. The offertory gifts at the Mass saw a GAA photo take pride of place beside soccer mementos from Ireland, Manchester United and Celtic. Despite all his soccer successes, the GAA and Éire Óg were always close to Liam's heart. All of which has made the row over the GAA's refusal to allow a fundraising soccer match for Liam's wife and young family to be staged at the new €70m Páirc Uí Chaoimh all the more embarrassing and inexplicable. To compound the damage to the GAA's image on Leeside, some of the proceeds of the Liam Miller Memorial Match will go to Marymount Hospice, which helped care for the soccer star in the final stages of his cancer battle. Marymount ranks as one of the most respected and beloved organisations in Cork. In terms of reputational damage, the past week ranks as one of the darkest in Cork GAA history. All-Ireland winning player and manager Billy Morgan spoke in terms of "disgust" and "embarrassment" at the GAA refusing to allow the fundraising match to be staged at the 45,000 capacity Páirc Uí Chaoimh after the 7,500 capacity Turner's Cross sold out in less than two minutes for the September 25 match between an Ireland XI and a Manchester United XI. "My own reaction was one of disgust," the former Cork star told RTÉ earlier this week. "I used the word embarrassed. Talking to GAA people over the weekend, they also expressed that opinion, that they felt embarrassed by it. It is an embarrassing situation that we do not allow our stadium to be used for a sporting hero of Cork." A star of Morgan's great Cork side of the 1980s and 1990s, Teddy McCarthy, echoed those sentiments. McCarthy, who made history by winning All-Ireland medals in both hurling and Gaelic football in 1990, said ordinary GAA members were overwhelmingly in favour of the match being held at Cork GAA headquarters. "The people of Cork have shown great support for Liam Miller and I have not heard a single dissenting voice from anyone who says the game shouldn't be held at Páirc Uí Chaoimh," he said. Call for common sense To compound the headache for GAA chiefs over the standoff, politicians, clergy, cultural leaders and even their own GAA clubs across Cork hit out at the decision earlier in the week not to allow Páirc Uí Chaoimh to host the fundraiser. The Bishop of Cork and Ross, Dr John Buckley, a renowned GAA fan, had said he hoped "common sense" would prevail as he pointed out this was an event aimed at raising money for two very worthy causes. Micheál Ó Muircheartaigh, the hugely respected GAA commentator and historian, also weighed in on the debate. "The GAA prides itself on being a community-based organisation, on a very high level, but for this, the entire Cork community, they are all together, they would love to see this happening," he said. Cork politicians from Tánaiste Simon Coveney to Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin, a renowned GAA fan and member of Nemo Rangers, were also united that the fundraiser should be facilitated by the GAA. What has astonished - and upset - many is that such a controversy could ever have been sparked by a fundraiser for a soccer star renowned as one of the quietest, most humble and extraordinarily generous men in sports. One of the match organisers, Michael O'Flynn, a Cork developer who is from Ovens and played for Éire Óg, stressed that the Miller family never wanted controversy over the event. "I have spoken to Liam's widow, Clare, and his mother, Bridie," he said earlier this week. "They do not want any controversy. They are a quiet, tight-knit family. The last thing they want is any controversy. But they understand (what has happened) and are deeply humbled by the support of people across Cork and Ireland." Such grassroots support is easy to understand when you consider the type of man Liam was. His brother-in-law Dan Sheedy told the Requiem Mass last February that: "The loss of the best is the worst... He was the bravest person I have ever known." Fr Liam Hickey said the sports star, who was buried just 24 hours before what would have been his 37th birthday, "had lived every young man's dream." "Liam used his talents to the full in such a short time. He gave so much joy to people and honoured the God who gave him those talents. He brought immense pride to his family and his home place." Indo Review 
