sport gaa
{  
    December 29 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/mulvihill-maintains-low-profile-and-high-standards-25890375.html }
THE year 2004 marked the 25th anniversary of Liam Mulvihill's appointment as director general of the GAA, but this is one of the best-kept secrets in Irish sport. THE year 2004 marked the 25th anniversary of Liam Mulvihill's appointment as director general of the GAA, but this fact has remained one of the best-kept secrets in Irish sport. Some people who have been successful entrepreneurs in Irish business for that long have hired a yacht in the Mediterranean for a week-long splurge of brashness to celebrate. But Mulvihill, despite his position as the most successful administrator in Irish sport for the last quarter century, would be acting very much out of character were he to make a song and dance about this particular anniversary. As he has done since 1979, he will simply keep his head down and get on with the job. Few have mastered the art of staying out of the limelight as well as he has. He has always been an achiever since he won two All-Ireland colleges medals with St Mel's of Longford in 1962 and '63. He qualified as a national school teacher and soon became the youngest ever schools inspector in the state. He also was the youngest ever GAA county chairman when he took that position in Longford in 1974 while still in his twenties. He then became Longford's Central Council delegate and was actually waiting outside the meeting room in Croke Park in early 1979 for a meeting to start when he was summoned inside to where a gathering of the then GAA Executive was in progress. He was offered the job as successor to Seán Ó Siocháin with a demand for an immediate answer. The rest is history. For most people, Mulvihill's job would be classified as the job from hell. The GAA has over 3,000 autonomous units including clubs, county boards and provincial councils. They all guard their independence rigidly. They resent being told what to do from on high. And they all regularly complain about "that crowd up in Croke Park". As the figurehead of "that crowd up in Croke Park", Mulvihill often bears the brunt of the various criticisms which emanate from GAA members themselves, not to mention even more serious whinging about GAA matters from the media and the general public on a non-stop basis. Despite having been in the line of fire for 25 years, the ordinary Irish person knows very little about the director general. That is because he has managed to maintain a very low profile throughout all those years. Maybe this has rebounded somewhat on him in that many GAA people do not fully appreciate the outstanding leadership and sense of direction which Mulvihill has brought to Ireland's biggest sporting body. The contrast between the GAA in 1979 and today is colossal. The whole image of the GAA has been transformed from being regarded as mainly rural, backward and ultra-nationalist to nowadays being seen as an extremely successful, all-embracing sporting and social organisation which percolates into every parish, rural and urban, in Ireland. With the possible exception of the Catholic Church, no other organisation wields as much influence in this country today as the GAA. Mulvihill's role in helping the GAA reach this position has been immense, particularly when one considers some of the major problems that he had to overcome over the past 25 years. As soon as he was appointed, the northern troubles started and with it came huge repercussions for the GAA. Hundreds of GAA members were victims of the disturbance, either as activists or more often as innocent victims. Many GAA officials were murdered simply because of the positions they held, such as Seán Browne the chairman of Bellaghy GAA club in Derry. Many GAA premises were burned or bombed. GAA clubs throughout the 'Six Counties' were put under enormous pressure from divided loyalties among their own members and the Maze hunger strike caused enormous problems for the GAA at national level as well. GAA players going to training on winter nights were often targeted by various groups, both from inside and outside the law. Mulvihill played a vital role in preserving the unity of the GAA in those tempestuous times. Subsequently, there was the debate on Rule 21 which debarred RUC and British Forces from membership of the GAA. Again feelings ran very high in the north on this subject and great political nous was required from Croke Park to maintain a unified organisation. The ordinary Irish person often tends to recall the unsporting incidents in major games as their defining GAA memories, and obviously these were all negative for the organisation. The All-Ireland football finals of 1983 and 1996 were examples of this. Within a decade of Mulvihill taking up office, the media coverage of GAA games doubled and then doubled again as media bosses woke up to the huge commercial possibilities of GAA coverage. Instead of a handful of journalists - Mick Dunne, Paddy Purcell, John D Hickey, Seán Óg Ó Ceallacháin, Micheál O'Hehir and Paddy Downey - covering nearly all GAA matters, there would soon be up to 50 journalists covering GAA activities. Television and radio exposure also expanded greatly, with the result that the GAA was under the media spotlight to a far greater extent than at any time in its history. Very often the GAA did not like the results as their dirty linen was taken out of the cupboards - where officials had hid it for decades - and washed in public. The amazing fact is that through all this media expansion Mulvihill remained very much in the background, rarely giving interviews or expressing opinions on the great controversies of the day such as Rule 21. Even to this day, nobody knows what he thinks about the question of opening Croke Park for non-GAA sports. Every three years, in theory at least, Mulvihill gets a new boss when a president takes over. Seán Kelly is the ninth president of the past 25 years. The director general never gets involved in the election of a president, but once he takes up office he is totally loyal to the president and hardly a day goes by when he does not speak with him. The only place where Mulvihill expresses opinions is in his annual report to Congress and over the years he has penned some remarkable stuff which has obviously been thoroughly thought out. Sadly, his incisive comments on the GAA are usually ignored which must be very frustrating for him. Had his advice been taken over the years, some of the GAA's biggest current problems would never have materialised. Modernising the GAA's administrative system was never going to be easy. Dragging the organisation into the realms of modern business methods, information technology, etc is a torturous business and is an area which Mulvihill himself has found difficult. He never seeks confrontation, rarely blows a fuse and does not try to force his opinion down people's throats, unlike many other GAA officials at all levels. The redevelopment of Croke Park, which started back in 1984 with the rebuilding of the then decrepit Hill 16, will be Mulvihill's monument and there is no doubt that the adrenaline he needed to maintain his enormous work levels was provided by that huge task. While many others played roles, there is no doubt that the new Croke Park would never have been built but for Mulvihill and his ability to learn on his feet about major construction projects. It is ironic that the finished magnificent edifice is no longer in his remit as a separate company now runs the stadium, for better or worse. Mulvihill's original contract will expire in the next year or two. There is little doubt that he will get an extension if he is willing to continue going into work at 7.0am and often not getting out until some meeting or other ends around midnight. The GAA should be thankful that they have had such a martyr to the cause. A glance at the shenanigans in some other Irish sporting organisations surely confirms that view.  Eugene McGee eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
