sport gaa
{  
    January 22 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/lack-of-will-in-the-gaa-to-implement-its-rules-properly-26281405.html }
IT is not hard to see why the GAA is often a bit of a laughing stock with regards to how it treats discipline. No other sports body I know spends as much time talking about and examining how to enforce discipline as the GAA and yet it is one of the poorest at actually enforcing rules of behaviour on the playing fields which are accepted as normal in many other sports. There has been more time spent by committees in the GAA on the rules about discipline on the field than any other topic in modern times but with no satisfactory results, as is proven by the fact that in the year 2007 we have yet another such committee 'examining the rules' about discipline to see how they can be improved. This particular one is actually called a 'sub-committee' which seems to indicate that it is less important than the many previous committees that have looked at discipline in the GAA but there is a common thread - Frank Murphy of Cork has been involved with most of them. He is chairman of this particular sub-committee and it has been given some extra clout because whatever proposals it makes, if any, will be put before Annual Congress in April as motions. Murphy has been famous for many things over the past 25 years or so but it is generally acknowledged within the GAA that he is a genuine expert at framing rules from a technical aspect and he is frequently consulted privately by officials from other counties regarding rule controversies that seem to constantly surface in the GAA. Expert While I accept that Frank is a rules expert from the technical/legal aspect, I wonder does his presence as chairman of this sub-committee indicate the nub of the GAA's problem regarding discipline? Is the GAA more concerned about the technical aspects of rules than the implementation of them? There is a strong case to justify such a conclusion. How often do we see new rules brought into the GAA and no sooner are they in the rulebook than they are being forensically examined by GAA hob lawyers all over the country to see how they can be circumvented? This is particularly the case with regards to rules of discipline and we have seen some terrible examples of this in the past few years when blatantly dirty play went unpunished because somebody came up with yet another technicality which prevented the rules being applied. Underlying all this is the undoubted fact that the majority of GAA people, officials, mentors, players and fans, do not want strict rules to curb and punish dirty or unsporting play. That is why we have so many variations and manipulations of the disciplinary rules and why the GAA after 123 years in existence still has to have sub-committees examining disciplinary matters. We all want to clean up the games - but not yet! The best example of this 'beating around the bush' approach to discipline is the question of yellow cards. It took over 100 years for the GAA to introduce these but even then it was a watered down version. Statistics will show that referees issue more yellow cards in the first half of matches as a sort of deterrent and to indicate that the referee is going to be very strict. But on close examination it can be seen that when players who have been yellow-carded commit a further offence in the same game which deserves a second yellow it is often ignored thereby rendering the original yellow meaningless. As most referees will admit privately, they do not like sending off players and referees who send off lots of players are never popular. What makes yellow cards rather meaningless in the GAA is that they are not cumulative as in most other sports. Cumulative would mean that if a player earned a certain number of yellows in different matches he would then serve a suspension. This would punish the serial offender, usually not a dirty player but a negative one who fouls as a matter of tactical opportunism. This type of player does more damage to the fabric of Gaelic football in particular than the dirty player because he and his team profit from negativity with no punishment. So far, GAA officials have steadfastly refused to make yellow cards cumulative and have come up with farcical excuses for this. One such excuse is that it would be impossible to keep track of the yellow cards. Well, if the GAA accepts that sort of logic in these times of sophisticated communication and computerisation then they really should be ashamed. If the will was there the yellow cards could be made cumulative tomorrow and could even be categorised into county and club games separately if desired. I have always maintained that the disciplinary rules in the GAA were adequate if they were enforced properly and according to the book. But this has never been the case. Referees do not consistently apply the discipline rules as they should and whenever they do, committees in charge of games do not back up referees. On nearly all occasions, the benefit of the doubt, and often a lot more than that, is given to the player who has transgressed. More canvassing has been done over the years to try to get players off or have their suspensions minimised than in any other aspect of the GAA, including the election of presidents. Star county players are protected when playing club games for instance and how often have we seen county boards wangle their way out of suspending the county star so that he is available for county duty? How many times have brave referees who sent off county players on club duty been blackguarded by county board officials or the public? Writing new discipline rules or rewriting old ones is all fine in itself but if the rules are not implemented properly then the whole thing is a charade. That's the way it has been for 100 years in the GAA and I doubt if yet another committee will change that. It is changed minds we need in the GAA regarding discipline, not changed rules. Diehard GAA people still believe that football and hurling are harder and tougher games than soccer and rugby; therefore, any clamping down on the hard men would be seen as an act of betrayal. Keeping the present chaotic disciplinary system is absolutely vital as far as these GAA people are concerned. Sin bins and all that sort of thing may be all right for the rugby crowd but we don't need any of that sissy stuff in the GAA now, do we? 
