sport gaa
{  
    November 30 2008 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/verdict-on-gaa-doesnt-consider-all-the-evidence-26496034.html }
Now here's an interesting one. Last Monday at Letterkenny District Court, a player from the Termon GAA club in Donegal was sentenced to three months in jail for assaulting a garda outside a nightclub in Letterkenny three years ago. (I won't be naming the player, he's probably had a bad enough week already.) In court, Judge Kevin Kilraine decided to hector Tommy Ryan, the former Donegal star and Termon team manager, who had appeared as a character witness for the player. "What sort of team tolerates that type of behaviour in the club? Has any disciplinary action been taken? Are the U12s supposed to admire this man as a player? What have you done about it? What is the attitude of the GAA to a person who persistently acted the blackguard?" When Ryan replied that he did not condone the behaviour but that the defendant was a respected member of the club, Judge Kilraine went on: "I am unimpressed by Mr Ryan's evidence. The GAA goes beyond the field. Players must be of a certain character to give example to youngsters. He should not be in the club, he should be expelled. If the only standard is the ability to play, and play well, then that has serious consequences for the GAA. I thought the GAA looked into the character of players and the example to youngsters. My understanding was that the GAA were intent on stamping out drunkenness. It should not be tolerated and should be expelled." Lecture over, the Judge ordered Ryan to give a written report of the court proceedings to the Donegal County Board. Coincidentally, last week some legal dude who goes by the name of Adrian Hardiman berated the press for their failure to adequately report the many carefully-wrought, intellectually weighty and all-round important decisions handed down by the judiciary. This being so, I looked at the Judge's comments with great care. And the more carefully I looked at them, the more convinced I became that, if not downright daft, they seemed at the very least to be somewhat unfair. It's not the first time that the GAA has come in for this kind of ballyragging. I remember Dr Joe Barry, the campaigner against alcohol abuse and a man who does some very good work, singling out the Association for its attitude towards drink. Soon afterwards, the time that the victorious European Ryder Cup team engaged in a Bukowskian orgy of swigging at The K Club after beating the USA. Not a word about that from Dr Barry or any of the usual GAA-bashing suspects. There seems to be an idea abroad that because the GAA pledges itself to do something about drink, it's a fair target whereas other sporting associations who don't even bother offering lip service get away scot-free. We might profitably have a look at the kind of club Termon is. For a start, it's one of the smallest if not the smallest in Donegal. It's the kind of place you'd expect to produce, at a pinch, a decent junior team. Yet this year the club made it all the way to the county senior final before falling to St Eunan's Letterkenny, a club whose pick would dwarf that of Tommy Ryan's side. Any GAA person will know that to achieve a feat like that you need a club full of hardworking people which possesses a great deal of community spirit. The little unit punching above its weight is the model GAA club. The Termons of this world are what make the GAA. Instead, Judge Kilraine's "what sort of team tolerates this behaviour," question casts aspersions on this brave little club. His comments also raised other kinds of issues about the responsibility of a local team to its members and the community that are relevant a long way beyond the borders of Donegal and which is why they merit closer examination here. This is not just about Termon. "Are the U12s supposed to admire this man as a player?" Well, if he's a good player, they probably do. But it doesn't at all follow that they'll try to ape his behaviour off the pitch. Even an 11-year-old knows that someone can be a hero on the pitch and a bit of an amadan off it. In any event, it's not up to sportsmen to give a moral lead to youngsters. That's what we have parents for. "The GAA goes beyond the field." It does to some extent. But it's impossible for it to control the personal behaviour of its members. "He should not be in the club, he should be expelled." Well, it's very unlikely that being made an outcast by the leading organisation in the local community is going to improve anyone's behaviour. And a sense of unity is perhaps the crucial feature of any local GAA club. It encompasses everyone in the locality, the blackguard included. In any event, the player has been punished already. That's what we have judges for. GAA clubs have no duty to impose additional punishment. "If the only standard is the ability to play, and play well, then that has serious consequences for the GAA. I thought the GAA looked into the character of players and the example to youngsters." Firstly, I haven't noticed any widespread expulsions from the IRFU and FAI on moral grounds. Secondly, the fact that in sport you're judged by what you do on the pitch rather than off it is to my mind one of its best rather than worst features. And finally, it takes a certain amount of character to put in the hard work needed to be a good senior club footballer so the man involved is obviously not a complete waster. Though, given his 11 previous convictions, there's obviously something going wrong and maybe he should, down the line, get in touch with John Leahy, a man once in similar trouble who managed to turn his life around. But that's his own business. Not mine, and not his club's. We won't be serving the sentence for him. "My understanding was that the GAA were intent on stamping out drunkenness. It should not be tolerated and should be expelled." Now, the GAA is a marvellous organisation but it can't work miracles. People have been trying to stamp out drunkenness in this country since the days of Father Matthew and they haven't succeeded. This is a hard-drinking country and the GAA, being the biggest sporting body in the country, naturally contains plenty of hard drinkers. Nevertheless, the GAA does a great deal to lessen the amount of drunkenness and to keep young lads out of trouble. In every town in the country there are men who drink a lot less than they would otherwise because they're keeping themselves fit for forthcoming games or simply because they got into the habit of minding themselves. There are people too for who GAA activity gives meaning to lives which would otherwise be aimless and enables them to feel part of the community. Without the GAA, there'd be a lot more young men up in front of the likes of Judge Kilraine. Then again, maybe he was dead right to say those things to Tommy Ryan. You be the Judge. If there's no column next week, look for me in a cell somewhere in Donegal. thephotograph@hotmail.com 
