sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny - Breheny Beat 
    April 16 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/betrayed-players-on-verge-of-anarchy-with-establishment-26051984.html }
THEY train like professionals, they play like professionals, they are  treated as professionals by the Sports Council's drug testers so they must be ... well no,  they're amateurs actually. It wont last because it can't. Hurlers and footballers are having their tolerance levels stretched to the last thread and when breaking point arrives as it inevitably will the establishment can prepare for anarchy. Even their own are guilty of exploiting GAA players. The Tyrone County Board fixed club League games for last Sunday evening, just hours after the county team had played Mayo in the League semi-final. Can you imagine asking Roy Keane or Michael Owen to play twice on the same day? Peter Canavan and Co are within one victory of winning Tyrone's first national senior title, yet a local committee, armed with a fixtures plan but no vision, and less soul, scheduled them to play twice on the same day. Only last week Cavan, who are chasing their first National League title for 54 years, had to appeal to the provincial Council to defer the Ulster U-21 semi-final which was fixed for last Saturday, 24 hours before the senior clash with Roscommon. Two weeks earlier, Cavan were forced to play the U-21 quarter-final the day before the crucial Division 1B game against Sligo. It gets worse. The GAA signed up to the most rigorous drug-testing procedures on the planet, one which is geared for professionals, taking absolutely no notice of the fact that amateur players have more on their minds that wondering if it's safe to take a cough mixture three days before a junior B club game. Minister for Sport, Dr Jim McDaid and the Sports Council, headed by John Treacy, are paid to form and implement an anti-doping policy. Sample takers, who travel the land importantly with their white gloves and urine holders are on a fee while writing about drugs in sport is work-related for professional journalists. There's money for everybody then, it seems, except the GAA players who, incidentally, have absolutely no idea what else the Sports Council does except insist on drug-testing procedures which are more suited to Russian weight-lifters than to corner-forwards. As far as I'm concerned, the GAA betrayed its players when they signed up to the anti-doping code. We're all opposed to drug-taking in sport so obviously some safeguards were required even in an amateur organisation. But it shouldn't have been beyond the wit of the Sports Council to devise a code which reflected the level of risk and circumstances which prevail among GAA players and other amateurs who are not exposed to international trends. Instead, they threw the International Olympic Committee regulations at GAA players with a stern order go abide by that. The GAA says that if they didn't sign up, they would be accused of being soft on drugs, leaving the finger of suspicion pointing at everybody. So they came aboard and now it's only a matter of time before some player gets nailed for innocently taking the wrong cough mixture. His name will be spread across media land, with all the follow-on implications for his job and family who will see their lives thrown into turmoil. That can't be right. There is huge concern among players and team doctors over the strict terms of the anti-doping code but now that the GAA has signed up, they have to accept it, since refusing to give a sample is an admission of guilt. So what should the GAA have done? For a start, they could have insisted on a derogation from the sections of the code which is clearly aimed at international cheats, who stand to benefit from doping. After all, even the Sports Council would accept that there is a difference between the physical requirements of runners, weight-lifters etc and GAA players, yet the code treats them all the same. The Sports Council probably wouldn't accept a derogation, in which case the GAA should have walked away. That, in turn, would have attracted the wrath of the Government, leading to a withdrawal of grants. So what? Better to lose the hand-outs than to expose amateur players to the risk of public odium because they sipped from the wrong cough mixture. Besides, any withdrawal of grants could be turned into an election issue next month, which would prove very uncomfortable for Fianna Fail, in particular, given their traditional links with the GAA. The doping code is by far the strongest plank in support of paying GAA players since their own governing body has allowed them to be exposed to professional testing standards while insisting that they can't earn money from playing. It's perverse and unsustainable. Meanwhile, some unfortunate player will be publicly shamed for inadvertently breaking the anti-doping code. No doubt the Sports Council will be very sympathetic when he rings for advice but then they're paid to be. PS: Irish soccer manager, Mick McCarthy thinks it's 'ridiculous' that the GAA wont open Croke Park to other sports. I agree with him but I also acknowledge the right of any organisation to decide how it should use its own property. Instead of poking his nose into the affairs of another sports organisation he might be more constructively occupied dealing with the reasons why his own masters have no ground of any size to show after 15 years of boom at international level. If he could answer that, his views on Croke Park might be a little more relevant. Until then, he should have the courtesy to stay out of the GAA's business while they get on with completing their 80,000 seater stadium. And by the way, it will be open to soccer and rugby in a few years. Bet on it. e-mail: mbreheny@eircom.net 
