sport gaa
{ Sean Potts 
    October 20 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/grassroots-game-in-player-furore-26326086.html }
TWO events this week called into question Croke Park's judgement and double standards regarding the deepening crisis over the inter-county player grants issue. With the inter-county player campaign heading for its sixth year, the GAA rolled out an expanded third-level grant scheme on Tuesday with special accommodation for administrators. While no one would or could object to such a worthwhile arrangement, the timing and the optics of the roll-out cannot have been lost on county players. Here is a situation where the GAA has absolutely no ethical qualms about handing over cash to players. They even highlighted the fact that the cash could ease the pressure on students forced to juggle their playing careers with studies and part-time work. And it wouldn't be on Nickey Brennan's watch if there wasn't account taken of the need to facilitate administrators in this new scheme. Then on Thursday morning, as the ballot papers for a players' strike started falling into letter boxes all over the country, where were the senior Croke Park figures? Organising a crisis meeting to resolve the most important issue ever facing a GAA administration? No. They were heading to Paris to meet the AFL to sort out the all-important annual lets-make-up-a-sport-for-a-few-weeks so we can all head out to Australia on a jolly every second year. This was their priority. While many fans and players do take this event seriously could someone not have stayed and convened an emergency meeting to avoid a potential strike? Before a press conference last week, one official even joked to journalists that the GAA were "trying to save yer holiday." This would be funny if there wasn't a ring of truth to it. Both these events bolster the argument that the GAA still has serious reservations about strengthening the hand of inter-county players, regardless of the views of certain administrators or the GAA's very support of the Government-backed scheme. Illogical Some officials were apparently left seething when the GPA announced that the ballot papers had been sent with the support of the executive, despite the fact that such a move had been well flagged in advance. And we can only assume that such anger reflects the underlying belief that the GAA simply isn't taking the players seriously. And obviously, the same officials felt that it would be prudent to launch the student grant scheme this week and prioritise the re-establishment of the compromise rules series. If both decisions were not conscious, it doesn't say much for their judgement and, if they were, then it reveals just where the inter-county players' campaign lies in their to-do list. Double standards are nothing new to GAA administrators. Since the GPA raised the stakes over the grants issue, Nickey Brennan has been on a crusade to highlight the contribution of the ubiquitous "grassroots". Yet, if the grassroots are as important as Nickey says, if we were to take his assertions to their 'illogical' conclusion, then why do we not fly plane loads of club players abroad for the exhibition games? How much of the grassroots did the GAA take to the negotiating table in Paris on Thursday? And if a players' strike were to continue indefinitely, why not just throw club players into Croke Park and watch the turnstiles roll? Every time the GAA wants to promote itself, it is the inter-county player that is placed in the spotlight. In fact we could go the whole distance. Instead of last night's televised Allstar awards, we could have a grassroots Allstars. "In goal, the man who lines the pitch; Right corner-back, the lotto seller; Full-back, the secretary; Left corner-back, the tea lady; All other positions could be taken by the people who organise ticket sales as they are the most powerful." By constantly referring to grassroots in this context Brennan is asserting that if players agitate, it follows that it is an insult to grassroots GAA people "busting their behinds up and down the country." One can only assume therefore, that he believes inter-county players have no such right. But these players insist that they, too, are part of the grassroots and any such player I have ever questioned on this issue wants to remain so. The volunteers working themselves to the quick are their brothers, sisters, fathers, mothers and friends. They want their status recognised without threatening the integrity of Gaelic Games. Yet they are constantly brow-beaten and intimidated by officials and commentators who obviously feel threatened by players. So let's cut through the emotive waffle and heart-string plucking that the GAA does so well and get to the root of Croke Park's reticence when it comes to inter-county players, the GPA and the Government grants scheme. The big difference between the inter-county level and all others in the GAA is that the Association sells its inter-county players, to the public, to sponsors and to television. There's nothing wrong with that, the GAA has to make money and, by God, does it know how to make money. Yet if the GAA were to clearly acknowledge that fact, it would empower the player considerably and this is the nub of the matter. Double standards may dupe the wider GAA public but not the players, not any longer. And on the issue of duping the public maybe we don't have to look too far to understand why they have been so successful. I have always maintained that large sections of the GAA media lack objectivity when it comes to certain GAA issues and I believe it serves to protect the status quo. I'll hold my hand up here too. For years I believed in fighting the GAA's corner in the burgeoning sports sections, after all, that's what GAA people do. Yet like everything else the GAA is evolving and we now find ourselves in a position where sections of the media enjoy a very cosy relationship with the parent body, one feathered by ticket allocations, free dinners and trips abroad. So when the GAA makes an announcement, it is often embraced unquestioningly by the media. A case in point was last week's player-welfare report concerning the issue of burnout. While the pressing need to regulate the crossover in underage team commitments was rightly highlighted by Brennan, the burnout element of the report, one based largely on the findings of a hitherto unpublished student thesis, was reported largely without much scrutiny. The GAA's well-oiled PR machine went into overdrive. With a host of eminent figures involved, the report was rolled out -- another clear indication of the administration's supposed commitment to players. How could those greedy players be looking for a few bob when this extraordinarily paternal organisation is doing everything in its power to reduce burnout? And what about the grassroots? Headache Of course, providing a few bob for students is welfare but backing a similar scheme for inter-county players, one funded by the Government, is a major headache. GAA clubs all over Ireland are thriving but little credit for that success is given to inter-county players. However, the increased profile of Gaelic games is what has sparked this growth, albeit one fostered by incredible voluntary effort on the ground. When Dublin played Meath in the famous four-game series in 1991 in the midst of the Jack Charlton soccer revolution, it gave Gaelic games a secure footing at a vital time. Live television, huge media coverage, increased playing standards and professional preparation mean our children now look on inter-county GAA stars in the same way as Premiership or international rugby players. We no longer need discriminatory rules to foster our codes. Fearful of ceding any kind of power to players, the GAA continues to display double standards. Sadly, this situation appears it mightn't change without a fight. Then again, it wouldn't be the GAA if we weren't fighting. 
