sport gaa
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    January 25 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaa-stand-to-make-a-mint-out-of-name-game-26163471.html }
LAST week the 26-county soccer association, the FAI, decided to stop whinging about the GAA not letting soccer matches take place on their pitches. Instead, they announced that at last they were going to copy the GAA and do something about providing a stadium for themselves. It's all being done with a little help from their friends, of course. And among the more fascinating aspects of the announcement was the `reliable report' that the FAI were hoping to get £15 million from some commercial operation to have their name attached to their new stadium. Nice work if you can get it ! This item of news set me thinking. If a soccer stadium is serious about valuing the name of the place at £15 million what sort of value would you place on the many famous GAA grounds around the country? Not of course that the GAA, staunch defenders of amateurism, nationalism and several other `isms' of a similar nature, would ever deign to desecrate the names of their grounds for the sake of filthy lucre. Granted, we used to think the same way about the most famous trophies in Irish sport, the Sam Maguire Cup and the McCarthy Cup. And we believed the GAA Presidents of the time who told us at Congress after Congress that ``you will never see the day when the name of a commercial sponsor will be attached to these great trophies.'' But sure weren't we all young an innocent in those days and some of us still cycling to play in matches after milking 30 cows and not a bit worried about having to tog out behind a ditch. When the GAA started naming their playing-pitches, they turned to the patriots and the clergy for inspiration and found a rich source there. Roger Casement, Padraig Pearse, Michael Hogan, Archbishop Croke, Charles Stewart Parnell among others came to the rescue. LATER on, some of the early GAA stars like Tom Semple, Dick Fitzgerald and Michael Cusack had their names attached to major grounds. And not a penny ever changed hands. Since we have an ever-lasting supply of famous patriots, famous clergymen and former GAA greats in this country we are never likely to run short of names for playing- pitches. But I wonder will the GAA be tempted to milk the commercial cow just another little bit by attaching a sponsor's name to some of our famous grounds? Or maybe to sections of a ground. For instance, will the new stand being built at the Canal End of Croke Park at present carry the name of a sponsor? And shortly we will have a new stand replacing the present Hogan Stand. Will that give rise to a new name as well? It was interesting that the magnificent edifice which has replaced the old Cusack Stand is being referred to in GAA-speak nowadays as the New Stand with not a mention of Michael Cusack. Maybe this is a straw in the wind. But getting back to the valuation of the nameplates of our best-known GAA grounds, where would we start but with Croke Park itself. It is the most famous venue in Ireland, bearing in mind the number of big games that take place in the stadium and the large number of 50,000-plus attendances, not to mention the concerts. So what would Bank of Ireland or Guinness expect to pay to have THEIR name alongside Dr Croke? If an, as yet, unbuilt and unproven soccer stadium is expecting £15m then a figure of £25m would seem reasonable although the name `The Guinness Croke Park' might not slip too easily off the tongue of most GAA followers. But then we said the same about the All-Ireland hurling championship. THE Tipperary GAA people might have the their own views on supplanting Tom Semple's name on their famous hurling pitch in Thurles, but in future years the lure of the big bucks could well overcome their reservations too. As the best-known ground after Croke Park, Thurles, which is more often called just that as opposed to Semple Stadium, should be able to command £10m within a few years. Páirc Uí Chaoimh might also be tempted by Murphys or Beamish at some future date for a small consideration of around £5m. If just one GAA unit were to strike a deal with a commercial entity for the naming of their ground then it would probably open the floodgates. The present wave of sponsorship in the GAA revolves around individual competitions and county teams but the history of corporate sponsorship indicates clearly that change is everything. After a few years involvement with a particular sponsorship, the big corporates like to move on either to a new sport or a new type of sponsorship. The GAA all-stars for instance is now on its fourth different sponsor in less than 30 years. Having your corporate name attached to a famous GAA ground would be very attractive to certain organisations and the fact that payment would probably be on a rental basis over a number of years would also make it attractive. Some big GAA grounds are rarely referred to by their official names anyway so they would have little to lose in a sponsor's name being attached to them. Clones is a good example of this and you rarely hear a GAA person referring to St Tiernach's Park. Calling it Bass Park, for instance, would not pose a great problem for GAA people if the price was right of course. Other venues which are commonly referred to by the town name include Tullamore, Portlaoise, Navan, Tuam, Ballybofey, Omagh, Newry, Newbridge and Ennis. Selling their name to a sponsor would hardly present a great problem to any of these. And even some of the grounds whose official name is actually in common use would have little difficulty incorporating a sponsor's name into the title. Kingspan Breffni Park or Kepak Pairc Tailteann would probably catch on time with the fans and the media. WHO knows, even my old friend Larrry McCann, Honorary Secretary of Knocknavanna Gaels GFC for the past 40 years, might even consider letting a sponsor put their name onto the local club grounds in Knocknavanna. But with Larry being a life-long Pioneer no alcoholic drink company need apply. I hope this article does not send all our dead patriots, churchmen and GAA stars spinning in their graves at the notion of having to share their names with the big hitters of the corporate sector in the third millennium.  They should rest assured that it is all for the good our great Association, the GAA. At least that is what we were told by the top GAA people when Guinness were allowed buy the prestige of the McCarthy Cup a few years ago ... 
