sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    January 19 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/gaa-blueprint-may-decide-fate-of-bertie-bowl-26062092.html }
THE fate  of the Government's controversial National Stadium project  could be decided tomorrow when the GAA unveils its  wide-ranging blueprint for the Association's development  over the next 20 years. If the long-awaited report of the GAA's Strategic Review Committee (SRC), chaired by former president Peter Quinn, and including members from both inside and outside the GAA, recommends renting Croke Park to other sports, it will be a massive blow to Taoiseach Bertie Ahern's plans for a National Stadium at Abbotstown. The absence of an 80,000-seater stadium for events other than Gaelic games has been a pillar in the Taoiseach's case to build a National Stadium, but it would come crashing down if the GAA relented on the use of Croke Park. The economic downturn has heightened opposition to the proposed National Stadium, and a change of rule by the GAA would further increase the pressure on the Government to scale down the Abbotstown venture, allowing Croke Park become a venue for major rugby and soccer internationals. The use of Croke Park has been one of the most controversial issues in the GAA over the past few years, with opinion so sharply divided that a motion to change the relevant rule failed by a single vote to get the required two-thirds majority at Congress last April. Despite its political sensitivity, the SRC can't dodge the issue since its original questionnaire asked for specific views as to whether Croke Park, in particular, should be sublet to other sports. It also asked what involvement, if any, the GAA should have with a national stadium. Ironically, Eithne Fitzgerald, a former Labour Minister of State and a candidate in Dublin South at the next general election, is a member of the SRC. She also served as a member of the camogie commission. The Labour party have been scathing of the National Stadium proposal, claiming costs will spiral out of control, and accusing the Taoiseach of egotism by sticking doggedly to his 'Bertie Bowl' plan. However, the GAA have publicly at least backed the National Stadium plan and their decision not to open Croke Park to other sports at last year's Congress was thought to have been influenced by the announcement of a £60m Government grant towards the re-development work on headquarters on the eve of the debate. Irrespective of its findings on the use of Croke Park, the SRC report will be one of the severest gales ever to hit the GAA. After 20 months gathering force, it will level many long established structures, leaving the Association heading for a period of enormous change. County officials have been summoned to Croke Park tomorrow to witness the demolition and to absorb proposals designed to promote immediate regeneration. It is the first fundamental review programme undertaken by the GAA since the McNamee Commission reported in the early 1970s, and was initiated by GAA President Seán McCague when he took office in April 2000. Every aspect of the GAA was up for review, and dozens of interested parties were asked for submissions by the SRC, which has met on a regular basis since first coming together on May 13, 2000. Apart from the Croke Park issue, some other difficult matters considered by the SRC were Amateurism versus the growing influence of creeping professionalism. Changes to playing structures, including the possibility of amalgamating counties. The Dublin dilemma how best to run the GAA in such a large population area. How to deal with the urban-rural divide. Administration structures, ranging from the role of the president and director-general all the way down to smallest club. Rule 21, precluding members of the RUC and British Army from joining the GAA, was also on the SRC agenda when it was first set up, but events have overtaken them as it was deleted at a Special Congress last year. Chairman Peter Quinn promised at the launch of the SRC there would be no fudging on the major issues, and that while it would be a matter for the general membership of the GAA whether to accept or reject the recommendations, they would be clear, concise and, where necessary, radical. Dozens of interested parties were surveyed in 2000 and, judging by the questions posed, the SRC report will be extremely interesting. PROFESSIONALISM: While the SRC are certain to rule against full-blown professionalism, they are likely to propose a more open approach to payments for managers, in particular. Repeated attempts to ascertain if managers are being paid privately have failed, so the SRC may seek to regularise the situation by allowing them to be financially rewarded for their work. However, the SRC were also very mindful of the need to placate players, who can expect some improvement, via increased expenses and payment for time lost from work through GAA involvement. COMPETITIVE STRUCTURES: There has been growing concern in the GAA over the impact of population imbalances. Director-general Liam Mulvihill has suggested amalgamating smaller counties as one corrective option, and, significantly, McCague, also hinted at it in a pre-Christmas interview. This was interpreted by many GAA members as a 'softening up' process for the SRC. DUBLIN'S REQUIREMENTS: With a population of 1.25m, Dublin may appear in a uniquely privileged position in terms of talent and resources but, at a practical level, it is very difficult for one county board to administer an area which caters for so many. The GAA are concerned by its lack of penetration in Dublin, particularly in larger housing estates, and will be looking to the SRC for direction. One of the options considered was breaking Dublin into two or more units. This would give Dublin a few teams at inter-county level. IMAGE: There has been widespread concern within the GAA about its image, an area which will be dealt with by the SRC. In their original questionnaire, they were keen to ascertain how the GAA related to other sporting organisations, and also sought suggestions as to how its profile could be improved. 
