sport gaa
{ John Greene 
    April 05 2014 09:04 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/john-greene-croke-park-has-not-turned-its-back-on-public-30158910.html }
On March 17, 1962, hurler Michael Kennedy scored a point in Croke Park. Kennedy was a Tipperary man who had declared for Dublin and on this day he was lining out at midfield for Leinster in the Railway Cup final. This was the first game ever broadcast live on television by RTé and Kennedy's point was the first ever score on live television.  Later that afternoon, Pádraig Gearty from Longford lined out at right corner-forward for Leinster in the football final and within a couple of minutes of the ball being thrown in he had the distinction of scoring the first point in a football match to be seen on live television. Later that same year RTé broadcast the All-Ireland hurling and football finals live for the first time and so began a relationship which has endured for 52 years. It has been much more than a marriage of convenience. Yes, there have been ups and downs along the way but over time – and more particularly over the last 10 years with the explosion in coverage – the GAA and RTé have been locked in a largely inter-dependent relationship. In an age where the GAA has been forced to compete against the perceived glamour of professional sports and RTé has been forced out of showing the Premier League, the Heineken Cup and other high-profile sporting competitions because of the financial might of rival television stations, their need for each other has never been greater. And both have reaped the benefits of this relationship; RTé delivered huge television audiences at peak championship times and the GAA enjoyed the benefits of the widespread availability of its games to the wider population. It has always seemed that the GAA felt a certain loyalty towards RTé – perhaps overly so, because it is a commonly-held view in the industry that RTé developed a sense of entitlement around the GAA, to the extent that it could continually turn its back on the leagues and the growing popularity of the club championships and waltz back into town every May with its wishlist for the next five months. With its latest three-year media rights deal, the GAA again demonstrated that it believes its natural partner is the national broadcaster, even in the face of stiff competition. Last week's deal was a good one for RTé – for its television, radio and online platforms. It's safe to assume that those in the know in RTé sport know this was a good deal. This is what group head of sport Ryle Nugent said about it: "In an increasingly competitive market, we are delighted to retain these television and radio rights on behalf of the Irish public, ensuring that coverage of Gaelic games is delivered free-to-air to Irish audiences until 2017. We in RTÉ Sport are conscious of our long-standing heritage with the GAA while also being passionate about constantly evolving our coverage. Year-on-year increases for RTÉ's GAA Championship content across all platforms underlines the fact that the Irish public are fully engaged with our comprehensive coverage." Nugent means what he said. This deal will make money for RTé. It will bring large audiences to RTé. And yet, somehow, the detail got lost and a good day's work by RTé's sport division was undone elsewhere in the organisation by a failure to understand the deal, and by the threatening impact of Sky's presence in the GAA world for the first time. Somebody somewhere in Montrose felt rejected – how else can the heightened hysteria RTé generated be explained? And how else do you explain the Prime Time segment, rightly described by Liam O'Neill as "shocking"? The behaviour of Miriam O'Callaghan, and David McCullagh in particular, was a low in that programme's history. O'Callaghan seriously suggested children might have to go to pubs to watch games, dressed this up in some sort of mock outrage and presented it as the GAA's fault, and not the fault of the parents who might bring them. But it was McCullagh's over-the-top approach to his interview of Páraic Duffy which has caused real damage to the relationship between RTé and the GAA. The station has work to do to mend fences. Meanwhile, on Prime Time, Liveline and elsewhere the GAA were accused of selling out and turning its back on rural Ireland. Perhaps this was the worst insult of all. There are few better programmes on radio than Countrywide on RTé Radio 1. For a number of years now, its presenter Damien O'Reilly has consistently offered the only meaningful coverage of rural isolation, rural depopulation and the problem of Ireland's growing band of deserted towns and villages. It was appropriate in the week that was in it that he returned again to this subject yesterday morning. Nowhere has the decline of Irish life outside of the large urban areas been better chronicled than on Countrywide, and nowhere has the spirit of defiance and togetherness been better highlighted than on Countrywide. The programme has also shone a light on the work being done by the GAA to help keep rural communities alive; the GAA has not been paying lip service to the problem in the way that the State has. The GAA has not turned its back on people the way the State has. The Irish Independent recently highlighted the scale of the hardship in rural Ireland with some pretty damning statistics. Between 2008 and last year, for instance, 1,290 pubs and 214 Garda stations closed, and there are fears that post offices and schools are next, while every time the HSE pulls a service from an area it sends shock and fear through the community. In the face of this, the GAA has stood strong on the ground, instilling confidence and hope back into rural Ireland. The charge of turning its back therefore is misplaced, and in truth has little to do with last week's developments. In recent years, the Association has shown greater willingness to engage with social media, online content and broadcasting. So the decision to experiment – and let's face it that's exactly what it is at this point, an experiment – with Sky for three years is not just a brave one, it is the logical next evolutionary step for an organisation which was once slow to embrace media exposure, but no longer is. Nobody really believes the GAA has long-term ambitions to go behind a television pay wall. At the same time, the landscape of media and television is changing rapidly and who knows what it will be like in, say, 2020. The GAA may even have its own television channel by then. Sunday Indo Sport 
