sport gaa
{ John Greene 
    July 12 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/what-another-fine-mess-26550309.html }
Dessie Farrell was on safe ground last week. Jimmy Deenihan, a multiple All-Ireland winning player; John O'Mahony, an All-Ireland winning manager; Jack Wall, former chairman of Kildare County Board; Jerry Buttimer, a former club chairman and Cork County Board official . . . These were hardcore GAA people. This was the Joint Committee on Arts, Sport, Tourism, Community, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs, and guests. Even Mary Upton got in on the act, a proud GAA woman whose bona fides are beyond question. "I am a great GAA supporter," she announced, "and would have been in Croke Park Sunday but for the rain." It was last Wednesday and Dessie was among his people, GAA people, and it showed. He was measured, he was authoritative and he was on top of his brief. And he was very angry. The GPA, he told the committee, had met with the Minister for Sport Martin Cullen and his officials about the grants scheme for players. They had been offered €1m, instead of the €3.5m paid out for last year, and this €1m would be only for those teams who reached the latter stages of the football and hurling championships and the finalists in hurling's three lower-tier competitions. Dessie couldn't countenance this. It was elitist, and flanking himself on Wednesday with a hurler from Westmeath and another from Cavan was a clear statement from the GPA chief. The Minister and his officials knew Dessie couldn't countenance it. But they made the offer anyway. The committee wanted to know if any reason was given for this "insulting" offer. "Obviously we pressed the Minister on that and he simply said that the money wasn't there," said Farrell. "It beggars belief from the point of view that everyone knew that this scheme was going to be funded, everyone knew their allocations of budgets [for the year] so why wasn't it designated, why wasn't it ring-fenced, why wasn't this funding earmarked? And who made that decision? "We would have known for a long time that there would have been a great deal of opposition within the department to this scheme. The underlying sentiment would be that perhaps players operating at the lower levels within inter-county games and inter-county competitions aren't deserving of any recognition in this regard. And while we obviously dispute that notion vociferously that seems to be the type of sentiment that has won through at the end of the day." So somebody, somewhere in this country's secret government didn't want to pay this money to GAA players. In fact, in all likelihood, they never wanted to give it to them. Resistance from the GAA to the grants was entirely predictable, and welcome to those of us opposed to the notion in the first place, but this was different altogether. A deal had been done, for three years, between the state and the GPA so there was no reason for Dessie Farrell to suspect it would be broken. A battle that had been fought for six years had been won, and its success could be toasted in three years' time at the first scheduled review. But alarm bells began to ring last October, when the first year's payment fell due. The deadline came and went and the Irish Sports Council blamed the department. The department, meanwhile, blamed the ISC. November passed, December too, before the money was finally handed over. One can almost sense the begrudgery in the transaction. It was now clear to Farrell that the battle hadn't been won. The €3.5m promised to players never actually existed. It was 'borrowed' from the Sports Capital Programme, money taken from Lotto proceeds to fund hundreds of worthy community projects up and down the country. Projects like the developments at Ballyea GAA club in Clare, at Cushinstown Athletic Club in Meath, at St Francis boxing club in Limerick, at the gymnastics club in Letterkenny. This was the "pot" so frequently referred to by the Minister. And now it was clear why the grants scheme was floundering. "It came from a different pot and was simply given to the Irish Sports Council to pay out," the Minister told the Dail last month. "The problem I have is that this year I do not have that sum of €3.5m to start with." The three-year deal was no longer worth the paper it was written on because, having axed the Sports Capital Programme, he couldn't dip his hand into the cookie jar again. The jar was empty. Now Dessie knew the truth of it. There had never been any money. And he was angry. "We want to know why this money isn't there," he told the committee. "Why wasn't it ring-fenced in the department's allocation, or the Irish Sports Council's allocation? If it was an oversight and somebody forgot to do it, we want to know who was responsible for that. Secondly, if it wasn't, and it was an arbitrary decision by some or certain individuals, we want to know who they are." The rights and wrongs of GAA players being grant-aided are not the issue just now. There is still a lot of resistance to the whole concept among GAA members, but the GPA made their case to government, and it was compelling enough for a deal to be brokered, which has now been reneged on. The Minister contends his was a "generous" offer but even his own party colleagues are struggling to buy that one. "I'm seriously embarrassed by the Minister's offer," said Sean Power, himself a Fianna Fail TD. And so the committee has resolved that the department can do better, and pledged to call on the Minister to make a new offer to the GPA, one that is not "insulting". Dessie Farrell probably won't be holding his breath on that score. "You heard a lot of politicians talk very favourably about inter-county players," he said afterwards. "By and large the consensus was that the reduction outlined is very severe and uncalled for, but where that gets us remains to be seen. At least it is a good start. It's a representative committee of the Dail and obviously they will make representations to the Minister as they have outlined and submit a proposal to him." But as he left the Dail, there was scarcely enough time to reflect on his afternoon's work. Earlier in the day, the GAA issued its response to GPA calls for official recognition and a five per cent cut of income from TV rights, gate and sponsorship receipts. "There will never be an agreement on a percentage because that is not the way the association operates," GAA president Christy Cooney said. Later, on Radio 1, text messages to Drivetime Sport were sympathetic to the GPA. In fact, they were more, many were adamantly opposed to the stance taken by the GAA. Several suggested that the GAA makes plenty of money so why should the taxpayer have to front up when it comes to players' grants. This was very revealing. At least in the sense that it opened a small window into a prevailing attitude towards the GAA. On the same programme not so long ago, an item on the Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund provoked nothing like the same reaction. The GAA makes bags of money and sod them, let them pay the players. But even the GPA acknowledges that this is not feasible, and have repeatedly stated they will not look for the GAA to make up any shortfall. The bottom line is that this is not a dispute of the GPA's making. Nor is it a dispute of the GAA's making. This is another fine mess of Martin Cullen's making. And we know who the losers will be. Eamonn Sweeney is on vacation jgreene@independent.ie 
