sport gaa
{ Brendan Lawrence at Arklow Bay Hotel 
    January 25 2020 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/sport/wicklow-gaas-finest-celebrate-in-style-38886345.html }
A wonderful night of celebration and reflection was enjoyed by over 340 people at the annual Garden County GAA Sports Stars Awards in the Arklow Bay Hotel last Saturday night.   Footballers and hurlers from clubs all over the county were present to collect their awards after magnificent seasons on the field of battle while loyal servants to club and county from Rathnew, Kilbride and Blessington were honoured with the club person of the year and lifetime achievement awards.   A hearty meal laid the foundations for a thoroughly enjoyable evening in the company of several special guests including former GAA President Sean Kelly while the mystery of who would be the next Wicklow Hall of Fame inductee was finally revealed as AGB and Wicklow legend Jimmy Dunne was unveiled for what was most surely a richly deserved honour.   County awards committee member Andy O'Brien was the first to address the guests after the meal.  'I extend a warm Wicklow GAA welcome to each and every one of you here tonight and I thank you for attending this, our sixteenth occasion of the Garden County GAA Sports Stars awards. An event which has withstood the social and economic pressures over the years mainly due to the support of you, the members of our clubs,' said Andy O'Brien.  'Before we get into tonight's celebrations, I would like to mention a GAA friend who served with us on this committee for the first 15 years. This is the late Michael Murphy. Michael left us last year at all too young an age. A gentleman and a true Gael. Still missed and we will be thinking of him tonight. And, unfortunately, at the moment we have some GAA familes who are going through some sad times, and we extend our sympathies to them.   'Most importantly, we welcome our recipients with their families and friends here tonight. Also, the invited guests.   'When we started out with this function it had two main aims. Firstly, the recognition of the individuals within their particular sport, and, secondly, and very importantly, to say a genuine thank you to our valued sponsors who give support without which we could not operate on so many levels.   'To all those who helped us in 2019 in any way, many thanks. And we hope you can stay with us for 2020.   'Tonight, we recognise the achievements of many sports people from inside our organisation and some from outside. The different awards have been achieved with a number of things in common, including all have been achieved with the support of their families, clubs and communities.   'Also, all have been achieved as amateurs, something that makes us unique. To those recipients who are still gracing our playing fields, we acknowledge and appreciate the role models you are for our young children. And to you, the recipients who have given us decades of service, as a county we owe you a debt of gratitude.   'We are delighted to have many special guests here tonight and you are all very welcome.   'Tonight's function is like all GAA events - it's a team event - organised by the county awards committee, all GAA people, and I'd like to thank each of the committee for their input and support to get us where we are here tonight. The members of our committee are: Bridget Kenny, May Moules, Chris O'Connor, Tommy Murphy, Ray Menton, Des Fox, Victor O'Shaughnessy, Jimmy Dunne and myself.   'I wish to thank Dick Walsh, Eimear and Shona here in the Arklow Bay Hotel and their team who have been extremely generous in their time and their sponsorship,' he added.   Andy O'Brien concluded by wishing all competitors the very best for 2020 whether for club or county.   Wicklow GAA Chairman Martin Fitzgerald warmly welcomed everyone to the function.   'Thank you for joining us here tonight. The most important people here tonight are those who are receiving these awards, and I want to welcome you and your families here tonight,' he said.   Fitzgerald paid a special tribute to two people who are no longer with us. They were Carnew's Jack Kilbride, former hurling board chairman and recipient of the hall of fame award, and Michael Murphy.   'Michael was one of the driving forces of this committee over the years. He was a member of county management and kept us all on our toes. He was a great worker, on and off the field.   'I'd also like to thank Andy and Jimmy and all the awards committee for all their efforts to make this a wonderful occasion. And behalf of Trish and myself, I'd like to thank you for joining us here tonight and wish you all a happy New Year both on and off the field,' he added.   Special guest for the vening was former GAA President, current MEP and Kerry native Sean Kelly who began his address by highlighting the close connection between the two counties.  'It is indeed an absolute pleasure to be here in Wicklow. Wicklow is my second favourite county because it reminds me of Kerry, same beauty without the same numbers of tourists so it's easier to get around in. But it's growing in numbers in tourism over the last number of years because I holiday here and will continue to holiday here,' said Sean Kelly.  'I'm delighted to be here at these awards. They're done in exemplary fashion, a full house and inclusivity right across the board both in terms of recognising the men's games and the women's games, ladies football and camogie, football and hurling, and also the different grades, no distinction made, and that's important because grades are only a reflection of resources. Everybody puts in the same effort and everyone has the same pride in their jersey and therefore their achievements should be recognised.   'Nobody goes out in the GAA - because we are a voluntary organisation - to win an award but when they do win it I think they appreciate it because they are putting in everything on a voluntary basis, and especially for their families more so than themselves because I think it means that what they do is appreciated and that's very important,' he said.   Sean Kelly suggested that there exists a very close connection 'psychologically if not physically' between Wicklow and Kerry and that's 'probably why the great Mick O'Dwyer came up here to manage the team for a number of years and you had dome great successes'.  'Kevin O'Brien was one of his right hand men and Kevin was in charge of the Minor team that beat Dublin two years ago which was a significant victory and is now in charge of the under-20s, and, of course, John Evans finished his term last year. So, there is a bond between Wicklow and Kerry, and we would love to see Wicklow going from strength, to strength and winning more into the future, and I think that will come,' he added.    Wicklow People 
