sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    May 13 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/old-guard-facing-challenge-as-survey-backs-player-reform-26446561.html }
Pay the players. Run a professional or semi-professional game because the GAA can well afford it. Stop taking players for granted. Give the GPA more power. Those are among the main headlines from an exclusive Irish Independent survey that will shock the GAA as it faces the unique challenge of being a small, indigenous amateur sporting organisation competing in an increasingly global market. The survey was conducted among over 500 second level students (17-18 years), drawn from 12 colleges with a strong GAA leaning. All four provinces are represented in our poll conducted over the last three weeks. The overwhelming backing for pay-for-play will come as a major surprise as it has always been assumed that while there was support for awarding players generous expenses and allowances there was no appetite for a professional or semi-professional game. That has been at the heart of the GAA charter with repeated warnings that any deviation would wreck the spirit and voluntary ethos of the Association. However, our survey conflicts with that assessment and shows a 2 to 1 majority in favour of pay-for-play. Well-off It came within 1pc of achieving the two-thirds majority normally required to change a rule. The students had no doubts that the GAA could afford to pay its players, with 72pc believing it was sufficiently well-off to do so and only 25pc opposed. The GAA will also be stunned to learn that more than seven in every 10 students believe that players are taken for granted. And, in an extension of that perception, the survey shows that almost as many (70pc) believe that the GPA has too little power. Such widespread support for pay-for-play, combined with the view that players don't have enough power and are being taken for granted is an explosive mix which certainly warrants consideration by the GAA authorities as they chart the way forward in an ever-changing sporting environment. There are lessons too in the responses to the questions on the fixtures programme with almost three-quarters of those surveyed claiming that club players don't get enough games. Slightly less believe that there isn't enough action for college players while just under half believe that there is too little inter-county action. However, more than one in three claim that the inter-county programme is too extensive, a view shared by many leading figures in the GAA who blame it for the fixture problems at club level. Whatever the background, it's a worrying trend if 73pc of students believe that club players aren't getting enough games. Especially so at a time when competition from other sports is increasing rapidly. Soccer is still regarded as the main challenger to the GAA but, significantly, almost one in three see rugby as an emerging threat while other sports came in at 19pc. The decision to make Croke Park available to international soccer and rugby received a massive vindication but interestingly more than seven in 10 believe it should remain open when Lansdowne Road is redeveloped. Rule 42 -- which precluded the use of grounds for non GAA sports -- was set aside in 2005 but is due for reinstatement when Lansdowne Road is completed. Support However, there has been growing support for allowing Croke Park to remain open to cater for international games where the 55,000 capacity at Lansdowne Road would not be adequate to cater for ticket demand. Apart from allowing more people to attend the big rugby and soccer games, the GAA would also gain financially from continuing the current arrangements as it earns around €1.5m per game from the IRFU and FAI. Of course, that's assuming that they would want to move out of Lansdowne Road on certain occasions, although it's difficult to know how they would justify ignoring the 82,000 Croke Park capacity for the glamour events. Our survey shows a widespread divergence of opinion as to whether any other GAA grounds should be opened to soccer and rugby in certain circumstances. It split 48-47pc against such a move with 5pc undecided. The decision to resume international relations with Australia received 83pc backing. But there are concerns about the future of the International Rules games with 52pc fearing that violence could remain a problem. Poaching of young Irish players by the Australians is also seen as an issue while some believe there is a danger the Aussies will become dominant, thereby robbing the games of their appeal. Exclusive survey of teen attitudes to the GAA by The Irish Independent Could the GAA afford to run a professional game? 72% Yes 25% No 3% Unsure Does the GAA take its players for granted? 71% Yes 29% No Were the GAA right to open Croke Park to soccer and rugby? 86% Yes 14% No Should Croke Park remain open to soccer and rugby when the Landsdowne Road redevelopment is completed? 72% Yes 24% No 4% Unsure Is hurling losing ground to football? 48% Yes 49% No 3% Unsure Should inter-county GAA players be paid for playing? 65% Yes 31% No 4% Unsure Should GAA grounds other than Croke Park be opened to soccer and rugby in certain circumstances? 47% Yes 48% No 5% Unsure Were the GAA right to resume the International Rules series with Australia? 83% Yes 13% No 6% Unsure Does the series have a long term future? 62% Yes 29% No 6% Unsure What is the greatest threat to the series? 52% Violence 18% Australian dominance 30% Australian poaching Has the GPA too much or too little power? 70% Too little 26% Too much 4% Unsure Is there too little or too much inter-county activity? 48% Too little 36% Too much 10% Just right 6% Unsure Will the biggest future challenge to the GAA come from soccer, rugby, other sports? 52% Soccer 29% Rugby 19% Others Do college players get too many/too few games? 64% Too few 30% Too many 6% Unsure Do club players get too many/too few games? 73% Too few 23% Too many 4% Unsure 
