sport gaa
{  
    November 24 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/lager-lucre-has-no-place-in-gaelic-games-26245565.html }
NORTHERN NOTEBOOK, TERRY MCLAUGHLIN THE soft focus approach is always part of the technique. Smiling faces and the carefully-crafted corporate images. Inscribed beer tankards and monogrammed fleece tops, all backed by leading Gaelic football players. Another competition means another bout of PR-engineered conviviality. On Thursday in Belfast we had the latest in a seemingly endless stream of alcohol-sponsored sports awards. It was the turn of Harp Lager to promote their beer. Smiling young faces. Athletic bodies. Health and strength and power. Players that had excelled in the Ulster Club Championship to date. The camera lens and the slick captions were used in the follow-up propaganda to ensure that bridges between booze and Gaelic football continue to be portrayed in the best possible light. Of course the words that might offend, words like booze, alcohol, addiction, dependency and exploitation are not part of the PR script. They were not the actual words, the hard words that were used. Instead the buzz words, the sports-related words are always referred to. Skill and determination and commitment and sportsmanship are liberally sprinkled through the PR prose. The cocoon of comfort provided by the image of foaming beer and friendship as an integral part of the sporting tapestry, is all-enveloping. Those outside the protective layer provided by the bottles of booze, the piles of pints are regarded as being outside the tribal team. The GAA is not alone in chasing after the 'lager lucre.' It has, however, as the largest and most influential sporting organisation on this island, an organisation with a turnover running into many tens of millions of pounds, a special responsibility. It is an organisation that provides an under-age competitive structure from U-8s to U-18s. It is an organisation that takes a special pride, at least in terms of its public face, in the promotion of culture and social awareness through the avenue of sporting competition. The backdoor deals, however, tell a different story. For the deals that have been struck in every county and in practically every club, under the jurisdiction of the GAA, make a mockery of social conscience. The GAA has sold its collective soul in return for allowing its premises to be used for the sale and promotion of drink. It has prostituted itself, without apparently any moral worries, in the pursuit of extra Euros, with many in the hierarchy of the Association smiling and rubbing their greased palms. The cultural ethos of the GAA if not totally submerged in a sea of drink, is still drifting relentlessly towards a relationship that will be inevitably be dictated by by an ever growing burden of financial debt. And the IOU slips are being held firmly by the Booze Barons. A GAA Social Club that is not in hock up to their armpits to the drinks companies in relation to low cost loans, is now as rare as a Pioneer Pin in a GAA bar. The drinks companies are prepared to spend millions in creating the atmospheric sub-text of the Gaelic Athletic Association's support in order to plot their way towards even more obscene profits.They may believe they are entitled to do that on behalf of their sales figures. The GAA, however, is not entitled to take the same stance. All we get is a hypocritical silence from the GAA. They are content to sit back and allow the banding of drinks products be used as a cash cow in association with club championships and leagues. County programmes are plastered with advertisements for drink, yet it appears that the GAA can see absolutely nothing incompatible in adopting a Pontius Pilate stance. The GAA argues that it supports a so called responsible attitude towards alcohol. It does not. The GAA condones drinks companies using students like those at the University of Ulster, to promote their products. Shirts, equipment and even scholarships are inextricably linked with the larger logo. The amount of cash, in real terms, is paltry when compared with the bulging profit margins of the booze manufacturers. But the GAA authorities are prepared to sit back and allow teenage football players to be pictured with glasses filled to the brim with beer, using images which could recruit potential alcoholics. What is equally nauseating is that the GAA, in a mission statement sanctioned by Croke Park, has admitted that substance abuse is a "matter of grave concern for the Association." The Association stresses that it shares the anxiety of parents in regard to alcohol. It adds that alcohol abuse is the biggest social and medical problem in this country. "It has done more damage to Irish families and Irish society than tobacco or any illicit drug." The GAA admits that young people are drinking in greater numbers and at an earlier age. Drinking, the GAA says, to get drunk, is a growing part of teenage culture. The GAA also says that proud of club leaders who are working with young people to provide a wholesome alternative to drugs and alcohol , especially since surveys show alcohol consumption is widespread in children as young as 12 and 13. Think about those words. There are the GAA's own words. Let those pious words swirl and foam around the mental taste buds. And then you have the hypocrisy of the GAA's mission statement about its caring attitude towards youngsters at risk of abusing alcohol. For those words were printed on the back page of an official Ulster county programme just a few weeks ago. The county does not matter, neither does the actual game. What does matter is that the front page of that same programme was sponsored by Harp Lager. Money talks when it comes to getting the prime position. The GAA is well aware that over dependence on alcohol can lead to a variety of illnesses. The tragedy is that GAA's soft focus attitude, its ambivalent attitude on alcohol, has now added sporting schizophrenia to the list. 
