sport gaa
{ COMMENT AND ANALYSIS by EUGENE  McGEE 
    November 19 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/back-to-basics-after-much-ado-about-nothing-26068248.html }
RULE 21 never had the slightest effect on the GAA careers  of the vast majority of players since it was brought into the rulebook nearly 100 years ago. Little wonder, therefore, that the overwhelming reaction of GAA people to what happened on Saturday was simply: So what? These people never cared about Rule 21, they never experienced it in action and, as far as they are concerned, it was a non-event. For nearly all GAA members and followers it was simply another of these silly distractions which the GAA tolerated for far too long and which provided ammunition for people who cannot stand the GAA to lambaste the association whenever there was a break in inter-county activity. Rule 21 was never even necessary because Rule 18 in the association's Official Guide provides for clubs having the power to accept or reject any person's application to join. And, remember, it is at club level you must join the organisation. Few sporting organisations in the world have been burdened with as much non-sporting baggage as the GAA since it was founded in 1884. While other bodies can concentrate simply on developing their particular sport, the GAA over the years took on the role of general dogsbody for a host of non-sporting activities. Nationalism, Irish culture, promoting the Irish language, developing Irish dancing, battling unemployment and whatever you're having yourself. You name it and the GAA was in there fighting the good cause. They took the role of 'national' organisation very seriously and, looking back on some of the ventures they applied themselves to, GAA people must be asking themselves was their journey really necessary. Why? Because all the time and effort devoted by the GAA to the various non-sporting causes was at the expense of promoting Gaelic football and hurling. Indeed, if the same levels of enthusiasm and effort had to be applied to improving the games in town and cities all over Ireland for the past 30 years, the GAA might now be a lot stronger in urban areas. But, instead of that, the GAA finds itself struggling badly in the major centres of population all over Ireland. Not one player from Galway city was on either the county's football or hurling team this year; the once great Castlebar Mitchels were relegated to intermediate grade recently; there was no Tralee player on the Kerry team selected to play Meath in this year's All-Ireland semi-final; and the rapidly expanding town of Navan could not provide even one player for the Meath team. I could go on and on. Yet, we can be sure that the Irish language, Irish dancing and the other causes promoted by the GAA over the years, are strong in all those major urban areas. No doubt, the intentions of the GAA in espousing all these various causes was honourable and sincere but they would have been far better off concentrating on developing their own games, because it is through the games, and only the games, that the GAA exerts power and influence. The GAA's contribution to the promotion of the Irish language is very debatable. There are echoes of the old compulsory Irish from the Department of Education in the GAA's approach. For example, if the team sheet for any game is not written with the Irish version of the names, the offending team automatically loses the game. One wonders what exactly that rule does to promote a genuine regard among players for the Irish language. More often than not, it is the butt of jokes and ridicule in dressingrooms as some club official tries desperately to extract the Irish version of a name from a player with more urgent things on his mind. When I was involved with the Cavan team, one time we had a player called Simon Axworthy. I often wondered how translating that into Gaeilge helped the cause of the language. Dumping Rule 21 is a wise, practical move by the GAA as it means the time devoted to defending it in recent years can be put to more productive use from now on. The GAA should apply the same logic to its other non-games activities because all its energies will be needed to promote the games with another World Cup campaign coming up for the Republic soccer team. As well-known GAA writer Paddy Downey once famously stated: "The GAA should leave the fiddling to the fiddlers." * E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
