sport gaa
{  
    April 05 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27359221.html }
Refuse Collection The next collection date for the Community Bin will be on Friday April 7th between 8.30am – 10.30am. Whist Club The whist Club meets every Thursday night at 8.30pm. If anyone is interesting in joining or would like to learn how to play please contact the Information Office 066-7139422 for further details. Bingo Bingo each Tuesday night. Doors open at 7.30pm and starts at 8pm sharp. Proceeds towards the Church Renovation Fund. Visitors welcome. Country Market in the Clubrooms every Sunday from 11am – 2pm. House of Prayer: There is a bus to Our Lady Queen of Peace House of Prayer, Achill on Sat 8th April, returning on Sunday 9th. Killarney vial Tralee. For further details contact Donal & Kathleen O’Sullivan, 068 22781 Journeying Through Springtime: Lenten Reflection will be offered by Sr. Noreen Foley on Sat April 8th in Meanscoil Nua, Castlegregory, beginning at 10.30am. Visitor Information Centre: Those wishing to advertise with us for this year need to return registration forms as soon as possible. If you have not received a form, please contact us and we will be happy to forward one. Tel. 066 7139422 Kerry Diocesan Pilgrimage to Lourdes takes place from September 2nd to 7th 2006, led by Bishop Bill Murphy. Flights from Kerry Airport. Booking forms available at the Parish Office or Contact Jim Twomey, Torc Travel @ 064 32911 Gaeltacht Pilgrimage The Gaeltacht Pilgrimage to Lourdes takes place from 18th to 23rd October 2006. Direct flight from Kerry Airport. For further details contact Galvin Travel @ 066 9151409. Irish Heart Foundation: There will be a sponsored 8KM Fun Run in Tralee on the 30th April @ 3pm. Departing from the Brandon Car Park. Proceeds to the Irish Heart Foundation. To register contact Jim on 086 3996094 Castle GAA Monthly meeting of club takes place this Thursday 30 March in dressing rooms at 8.30pm. Seniors are away to St Pats in County League next Sunday 2 April. Minors play Beaufort at home on Friday evening 31 March. Coiste na nÓg: Our 2 U14 teams (boys and girls) suffered heavy defeats last Saturday in their respective county league games. Hopefully both teams can pick themselves up for this week’s fixtures. Newsletter: While the newsletter has been a great success, we are always looking for more articles, points of interest, adverts and any other material that you may wish to contribute. Contact the Information Centre at 066 7139422 or e-mail castleinfo@eircom.net EASTER CAMP Easter Camp at Camp Child Care Centre 066 7130338. Week 1. Tuesday 11th April, Wednesday 12th April, Thursday 13th April. Week 2. Tuesday 18th April, Wednesday 19th April, Thursday 20th April. Times:- 10.30am – 2pm. Age Group:- school going – 12 years. ?50 per child. Book before Friday 24th March for special rate of ?45 & 10% Reduction for subsequent family members. GAA: Castle played the first round of the Div. 3 County league away to St Pat's Sunday last 2nd April at 2.30. Castle fielded a nearly full strength team with Alan Lynch making a return from long injury. But was the Blenerville men that got off to the better start with points in the 1st, and 2nd min. Castle made there start in the 3rd min with a Brendan Lynch free. St Pats drove on with points in the 4th and 5th min, Brendan Lynch free again in the registered a free for Castle in the 10th. St Pats scored points in the 12th, 13th and 23rd min. As the castle side line was getting anchous and encouraged the lads to start making more of an effort or there would be changes at half time Castle were awarded a penalty on the 26 min which David Heasman dispatched to the St Pats net and Micheal O Shea followed up with a point in the 28th. The half time score line was level at 0-07 to 1-04. Castle started the second half with more purpose and direction. Enda Kelliher took the lead for Castle in the 2nd min with a point from play followed by Colm Scills in the 3rd and David Heasman a min later. Young JB Spillane pointed in the 5th. St Pats hit a purple patch 11 min with points in the 11th and 13th to leave 2 points between the teams. It remained like this till the 23rd when J.B. goaled for castle and finished St Pats off with a point a min later. Final score 2-09 to 0-09. Castle lines out Shane Kenny, Joe Scully, Tomas Lynch, Gavin O Connor, Adrian Finn, Joe O Connor, Ger Calaghane, Sean O Mahony, David Heasman, Colm Scilly, Enda Kelliher, Micheal O Shea, Brendan Lynch, Breanainn O Neill, J.B.Spillane. Sean Moriarty came on for Tomas Lynch and Alan Lynch for Braineann O Neill, Ian Flynn came on Colm Scills. HISTORY OF CASTLEGREGORY Anyone with material, photographs, etc. Please submit to Eithne Griffin before Easter. Tel 086 6066865 Causeway The Pat Joe O'Connor Memorial Quiz will take place on Good Friday Night April 14th in Causeway Sports Hall. All proceeds from the event go the Chernobyl Children's Project. Please support this worthy cause. Spots prizes and donations welcome. DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to the relatives of Molly Donegan, Cleandries who died recently. Removal took place from Caseys Funeral Home to St Johns Church. Burial took place in St Johns Cemetery. CARD DRIVE: The results of the 41 card drive held at Hartys on Sunday, April 2. Winners - Roy Dineen, Tom O’Connor; Runners up - Danny Guerin, Noreen O’Connor, Gerald Lawlor, Mickie Quilter; Table prize - Kathy Neilan. Next drive is on Friday and Sunday, April 7 and 9. COMMUNITY GAMES: Congratulations to Vannesa Dineen, Cleandries who won a bronze medal in the U10 freestyle Community Games swimming competition in Tralee last weekend. ST BRENDAN'S AC: The athletics club are holding registration for new and existing members this Wed eve the 5th of April in the Community Centre Ardfert at 7.30pm. All ages from seven upwards are welcome. Anyone interested and not able to make it on the night may ring Theresa on 7134006. GAA MEMBERSHIP: Senior players ?50. Ordinary Membership ?30. Juvenile membership ?10. All remaining membership will need to be paid in the coming week. GAA LOTTO DRAW- Jackpot ?7,400. No Jackpot Winners. Numbers Drawn 1, 4, 5,18. Next weeks jackpot ?7,500. ?50 Winners: John Fitzgerald Ballinorig, Jack Dineen Cleandries, ?25 Winners Pat Hunt c/o Dennys, Peter Legg Ballinascreena, Joe O Hara Feans. GOLF CLASSIC: Causeway GAA club are organising a golf Classic on the 3rd June in Ballyheigue. Anyone wishing to enter a team please contact any of the club officers for details. KERRY HURLING: Well done to John Fitzgerald, John Mike Dooley, Eamon Fitzgerald and Tadhg Flynn who were part of the Kerry hurling team that defeated Kildare in Tralee on Sunday in the NHL by 1-12 to 0-9. Kerry are now qualified for the semi finals stages. FIXTURES Intermediates: Wednesday 5th April V Crotta in Dromakee at 6.45. Wednesday 12th April V St Brendans in Causeway at 6.45. Seniors: Monday 10th April V Ballyduff in Ballyduff at 6.45. U16: Tuesday 11th April V Kilmoyley in Causeway at 6.30 U11: Sunday 9th April V Kenmare in Kenmare at 11 o clock. Minors: Sunday Morning 9th April V Abbeydorney in Causeway at 12 o clock. Churchill PTAA: Once again our Pioneer quiz teams did our parish proud in the Munster finals at Ballyroe Hotel on Sunday last. Our u13 u16 and senior teams all qualified for the All Ireland finals in Co Meath on Saturday, March 22. The u13 team of Greg Switzer, P J Galvin, Maedbh O’Brien, Ena Reale, and sub Claire Hand were first to qualify in 4th place. The u16 team of Ciara Kenny, Shane Kenny, Stuart Reale, Conor Mawe and Sinead O’Brien were next finishing in 3rd place and last our senior team of Teresa and Seamus Murphy, John Flaherty, Tom Culloty and Brid Culloty won their competition scoring 96 pts out of possible 100. The vest of luck in the All Ireland finals, but first we will have to try and arrange a fund raising quiz or some such event to cover the cost of transport etc. COMMUNITY GAMES: It was also a very busy and successful week end for our young boys and girls with basketball, projects and swimming. Well done to our winners, E Reale, M O’Brien, S Kate who won the squad event and have qualified for a trip to Mosney in August. Well done to Emily Brick and Rachael Donnellon who also qualified for Mosney in May. SPA/FENIT/DEV ASSOC: Thanks to all who supported last weeks poker classic at The Tankard . Dont forget the weekly bingo at Godleys Hotel every Wednesday at 8pm. SYMPATHY: Is extended to all the Clifford families on the death last week of their mother Joan Clifford, Ballymakegone, Kilfenora. Joan was for many years a very active member of the local ICA Guild. 41 DRIVE: Results of last weeks 41 drive, at The Tankard were Phil and Shelia Healy, Larry Murphy and John King, Ned Scott and Joe Moriarty, Jim and Breda Browne, Moss Harmon and Madeline O’Keeffe, Anne O’Connor and Catherine Nolan. Glad to see a good crowd of players last Tuesday night. MINOR CO LEAGUE: Churchill 4-12, Listry/Cromane 1-10. Churchill minors had a good win against Listry/Cromane. Best for Churchill were B Dillon, man of match, K O’Connor, S Brennan, G Rolls, C Vieux. Next fixture against Templenoe in Spa Sportsfield, Killarney. Check with club officers re time and venue. SENIOR CO LEAGUE: Scartaglin 0-9, Churchill 0-8. On Sunday last Churchill suffered an unexpected defeat by one point. Best for Churchill were B Murray, M Wrenn, D Doyle and J McCarthy. Next fixture v Na Gaeil at Spa Sportsfield on Easter Saturday. MEMBERSHIP: Again we have to remind players and fans that membership is now long overdue. Please join up now. Next lottery will be in West End Bar, Fenit, this Saturday night at 8pm. Clochan Breanainn DIOLACHAN CISTI; Beidh diolachan cisti i mBunscoil an Chlochain ar an Aoine seo an 7u Aibrean ag tosnu ar failte roimh cach. CUMANN 500 Buaiteoiri tarrach an Mharta: 1 duais Brid Lynch, Cill Mantain, 2u duais Brendan Moore Murringrane, 3u duais Moss & Caramella Ui mhuircheartaigh Lios na Caolbhui, 4u duais Billy O'Regan Breanainn, 5u duais Siobhan Nic Gearailt Baile Atha Cliaith. CUMANN LUATHCHLEAS GAEL CAISLEAN GHRAIGHRE Senior: St Pats 0-09 Castle 2-09 Castle played St Pats in round 2 of the County League in Blennerville on Sunday. St Pats started the better team and went 2 points up before Brendan Lynch opened Castleís account after 4 minutes. Another 2 points for St Pats saw them go 0-04 to 0-01 up but another free from Lynch kept Castle in touch. 2 more Patís points left it 0-06 to 0-02 but again Brendan Lynch popped the ball over from a free. Castle played very poorly throughout the first half and when St Pats scored again things looked very ominous for Castle. However, in a dramatic finish to the first half David Heasman cracked home a penalty in the 28th minute followed quickly by a fine point from Micheal OíSÈ to leave the score level at half time. Whatever was said in the Castle dressing room worked, as they started the second half at a blistering pace, and after a good save by ëkeeper Shane Kenny, points from Enda Kelliher, Colm Sills, David Heasman and J B Spillane in the first 6 minutes saw Castle take control of the game. A point for Pats after 12 minutes reduced the lead to 3 but a fine individual goal from J B Spillane in the 23rd minute made the game safe for Castle. A late St Pats point was answered by Spillane with the last kick of the game to leave the final score St Pats 0-09 Castle 2-09. A good win for Castle and it was good to see Alan Lynch making his return during the second half ñ he came through the game without any recurrence of the injury that has kept him out for almost a year.. Team: S Kenny, J Scully, T Lynch, G OíConnor, A Finn, J OíConnor, G OíCallaghan, D Heasman, S OíMahony, M OíSÈ, E Kelliher, C Sills, J B Spillane, B OíNeill, B Lynch. Subs: S Moriarty, A Lynch, I Flynn, D OíConnor, A Deane, B OíConnor,D Finn, S Roche, K Kennedy. Minor: Castle 1-09 Beaufort 1-05 In an entertaining and exciting game of football Castle got the better of Beaufort by 4 points at Pirc an Caislein on Friday evening. In the early stages, both teams fought hard to gain supremacy and it wasnít until the 10th minute that Ryan Kelliher opened the scoring with a point. Beaufort hit back straight away and went ahead with another point in the 15th. The game was finely balanced at this stage, and in the 18th minute Beaufort got in behind the Castle defence and a goal looked certain. But ëkeeper David Murphy bought off a brilliant and crucial save by pushing the ball around the post for a 45. Two frees, one each from Shane Hennessy and Ian Flynn, pushed Castle back in front and as the game went into first half injury time a inch perfect pass from J B Spillane saw Ian Flynn crash home a terrific goal for Castle. From the kick out Castle launched another attack and John Fitzgerald knocked over a point to leave it 1-04 to 0-02 at half time. A point from Shane Hennessy after 2 minutes was answered by Beuafort on 5. Ian Flynn put Castle into a six point lead in the 7th minute but a punched goal from the edge of the square brought Beaufort right back into the game. Shane Hennessy calmed Castleís nerves with a fine point in the 13th minute but again Beaufort hit back with two points in the 15th and 16th minutes. First half sub Sean Walsh, playing extremely well, continually harried the Beaufort backs and won an important 45 through his persistence. Hennesy duly converted. to put Castle 3 up with 7 minutes left. Two minutes later Ryan Kelliher got the last score to give Castle a 4 point victory. This was a great team performance but special mention must be made of Joe Scully at full-back and Gavin OíConnor at centre-back, both of whom were truly outstanding. Team: D Murphy, S Egan, J Scully, S Scanlon, E Deane, G OíConnor, P Flynn, S Hennessy, R Kelliher, A Fitzgerald, J B Spillane, J Fitzgerald, G Moriarty, I Flynn, J OíDonnell. Subs: S Walsh, S Browne, A Kelliher, F Murphy. Minors are away to Laune Rangers this Friday 7 April. Coiste na nOg: U14 County: Castle 1-05 Duagh !-03 Castlegregory u-14 team braved the weather once again to overcome Duagh on the rearranged date of Thursday 30th march. Castle started the scoring with a point from Andrew Egan, followed by a point from the boot of Keelan Dowling. Castle went on to score one more point before halftime, from a free taken by Maurice J Fitzgerald. Duagh scored one point during the first half and Castle should really have had more scores registered but the bad weather conditions didnít help either side. Castle took control again at the start of the second half with points by Ronan Barry and Maurice J Fitzgerald. Duagh answered with two points but were struggling to get the ball out of their back line where Darren Lynch, Maurice J Fitz and Kate Spillane had the upper hand. After showing great strength and ability to force his way through the defence, Andrew Egan struck a bullet into the roof of the Duagh net with ten minutes to go. The last kick of the game was an unfortunate one for Castle as a ball kicked hopefully along the ground towards the Castle goal, skidded off the surface, hit a defender and went into the Castle net. However, the game finished 1-5 to 1-3 in Castleís favour. This was Castleís first game with a full team and they were best served by Michael Hennessy who had his hands full with a fast moving and talented forward, Connie McCarthy, Adam Lynch, Greg Dowling, Andrew Egan, Darren Lynch, MJ Fitz, K Spillane and C Maunsell. Next round of the county league is away to Fossa on wed 5 April. Team: K Dowd, K Browne, M Hennessy, C McCarthy, A Lynch, G Dowling, E Flynn, A Egan, D Lynch, K Spillane, C Maunsell, M J Fitzgerald, N Fitzgerald, R Barry, K Dowling Subs :T Kelliher, H Finn, S Finn, A O Donnell, S Flynn, R OíDonnell. Lotto: Numbers Drawn ñ 4, 10, 15, 17. No winner. Lucky Dip ñ M NÌ Chleirigh, K OíRourke, S Wynne, E McGonigle, P Smyth. Next draw ñ Tuesday 11 April Ferriters. Jackpot Ä3500. Clounmacon ICA: The next ICA meeting takes place at the Community Centre on this Thursday, April 6, at 8pm. DEATHS: The death took place in England of Jack Healy (late of Clountubrid). Sympathy to his twin brother Paddy, Listowel. Sympathy of the Community is extended to Paddy O’Donnell and family, Knockane on the death of his sister Mrs Peggy Clark who died in California. Sympathy of the Community is extended to Sean Treacy, Gurtinard, Listowel on the death of his mother, Mrs Brenda Treacy, Cappawhite, Co Tipperary. Shannonside No Name Club: On Sunday March 26, the Shannonside No Name Club’s drama group took part in the No Name Club Variety Show and Competition, which was held in The Millennium Theatre, in Limerick IT. They came up against strong opposition with clubs from: New Ross, Dungarvan, Thurles, and Celbridge also participating. Although the club did not manage to qualify for the All-Ireland competition, they did however win the award for Best Musicians. All members of the drama group are to be commended for their excellent performance on the night. A special word of thanks to: Priscilla O'Donovan who prepared the group for the competition. Easter Disco: The Shannonside No Name Club will be running an Easter Disco on Friday 7th of April from 9pm to 12.00 at Moyvane Community Centre. Music by: DJ Chico. Admission: ?10. This is an alcohol free disco. Comhaltas Church Gate Collection: Gabhaimid buíochas mór le gach duine a chabhraigh leis na bailiúcháin ag na Séipéil ag an deireadh seachtaine. Many thanks to all those who helped with the Fleadh Chiarraí Church Gate Collections at the weekend. Fleadh Chiarraí: Fleadh Cheoil Chiarraí is taking place in Milltown this coming weekend, 7-9 April. The weekend kicks off with a Comhrá evening in the Caifé Beag on Friday at 9pm and is followed by Sean-nós and Storytelling in the Plough Bar. Competitions for Fé 12 and Fé 15 begin at 10am on Saturday. Street entertainment begins at 5pm. Junior Set dancing competitions begin at 7pm in the Halla. Aifreann an Fleadh will be held at 11.15am on Sunday morning. On Sunday Fé 18 and Senior competitions commence at 12pm with Grupai Ceoil and Bands. A sean nós dancing workshop with Adrian Moriarty will take place at 4pm in the Halla and street sessions will be in full swing by 5pm. Senior and U-18 Set finals will begin at 7pm and an Open Air Céilí with the 3Fivers will begin at 8.30pm. Go n-éirí go geal le Baile an Mhuileann/Listry CCÉ agus Fleadh Ceoil Chiarraí I mbliana. Comhaltas Live: A reminder to all that Comhaltas live have made available some great footage taken at Fleadh na hÉireann and other events. To access the footage for 6 months costs only ?24 and the weekly 20-minute programmes are an invaluable source to young musicians especially. Each programme also contains a tutorial and new tune to be learned. To subscribe visit www.comhaltaslive.ie. Please send notes to aoifeg@iol.ie or 086-8560562 on or before Sunday of each week. Ballybunion CCÉ: The branch A.G.M. was held at the Community Centre, Ballybunion on Monday 13th March. The officers elected were: President - Liam Buckley, Chairperson - Marie Mc Enery, Vice Chairperson - Seán Breen, Secretary - Margaret O Connor, Treasurer - Christy Moriarty, P.R.O - Eileen Horgan, Auditor - Kathy Flahive and Treoirí na Gaelige - Miriam Mc Enery. The church gate collection was taken up at all masses 1st/2nd April. The amount collected was ?826. All the money collected is going towards the running of the Fleadh Cheoil Chiarraí 2006 in Milltown on 7th, 8th and 9th April. We wish to thank most sincerely all who contributed so generously. The collection in Asdee was ?166. The next meeting will take place at the Community Centre Ballybunion on Friday 21st April at 9.30pm. http://www.iol.ie. Cordal 31 CARD DRIVE: Will be held in aid of Childrens Hospital, Crumlin on this Wednesday, April 5, at the Community Centre, at 9pm sharp. Good prizemoney and spots galore. Dingle Craobh an Ághasaigh CCÉ: Go n-éirí go geal lenár gceoltóirí agus amhránaithe óga ar fad a bheidh ag glacadh páirt sa Fleadh Cheoil ag an deireadh seachtaine. Good luck to all our young musicians and singers who will take part in a variety of different competitions at the Fleadh Cheoil in Milltown at the weekend. Congratulations also to the young members of the branch who have provided some great traditional music and singing at Vigil Masses of late. Comhghairdeachas libh ar fad. http://www.iol.ie MARKET: Dingle Farm Produce and Craft Market will re-open at the tracks on this Friday night, April 7, and will be open every Friday until October. LOTTO: The weekly GAA Clubs lotto draw held in the Brewery Gate on Tuesday, March 28, with a jackpot prize of ?5400. The numbers drawn were 6, 13, 23, 25. There were no winners. Four people received ?50 each: Ruth Ni Fhionnán, An Choill; Colm Bambury, Bridge St; Betty Griffin, Annascaul and Josephine Fitzmaurice, Goat St. THEATRE: The Beehive Theatre Company presents its Festival of New Writing from this Thursday to Sunday, April 6 to 9, at Cuilín Studio. Tickets ?10 for one night; ?16 for two nights. Telephone (066) 9152924. CO LEAGUE: Dingle collected the second pair of points, when they defeated Dromid Pearses in the South Kerry venue on Sunday last. 0-7 to 0-4, in round 2 of the county senior football league, played in a very sodden pitch. It made any attempt to play decent football difficult, hence the low scoring. The home side polayed with the aid of a strong breeze in the first half and they had the visitors defence under some pressure. The sides were level at 0-4 a piece at the break and with wind advantage on the change over Dingle were in control. However they had a series of bad wides and should be a lot more in front at the finish. Scorers were David Devane (0-4), Aidan O’Neill (0-2), Cathal Murphy (0-1). COISTE NA NOG: A good weekend for under-age teams. On Sunday afternoon the u14 team defeated Kenmare in the county league 2-12 to 2-6 and on Sunday evening the U12 side destroyed Castle 9-17 to 0-1, both games in Páirc an Asaigh. PITCH AND PUTT: In Milltown has re-opened for the season. Duagh SCHOOL:Parents who intend enrolling their child in Duagh NS for September 06 are asked to contact the school immediately. They may ring the school secretary at 068 45366. DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to all the family members and friends of the late Eily Relihan London and formerly of Knockadireen who died recently in London. Burial was in London Sympathy is extended to family,relatives and friends of the late Michael Quille Shanbally who died last week. Burial was in Abbeyfeale cemetery. Sympathy is also extended to all family members relatives and friends of the late Mai Hichey (nee Meehan) Purt who died at the weekend. Burial was in Abbeyfeale cemetery. CUMANN:The DUagh Fianna Fail Cumann AGM was held at O Connors Bar recently. The following members were elected on the night: Hon. President Charlie McCarthy,Chairperson:Kathleen Hickey,Vice Chairman Timmy Kirby,Secretary B'Anne O Connor,Treasurers Dan O Donnell and Seano Sheehy,Membership Officer Adrian Collins,Youth Officer Dermot O Donnell,Delegates:B'Anne O Connor,Maurice O Connor,Dan O Donnell. The committee wishes to extend sympathy to the Hannon family Bunglasha on the death of Dj Hannon and to Kathleen Hickey and family Trieneragh on the death of Michael Hickey. Thanks was also extended to Noreen Sheehy Trieneragh for her many years service to the cumann. LOTTO:The GAA lotto jackpot was not won last week and E 3800 will be on offer at next weekend's draw at O Briens Bar on Friday April 7th.Tickets may be had from club officers. TICKETS:The GAA Development draw for the 2 cars plus other prizes is nearly with us but you still have a few days left to get your ticket. The draw will take place on this Saturday April 8th in the new Hall at the Family Centre. Refreshments will be served and you are all invited to the function. The Duagh GAA club would like to announce that this draw has been a huge success and surpassed expectations within the Duagh parish and outside the parish. The GAA club would like to sincerely thank all subscribers,ticket sellers, helpers etc.Best of luck to all and again thank you. Through your generosity and support there will be 2 fully developed playing pitches available to the present and future GAA followers,to the local school,to the athletics people and to the supporters. SCHOOL:Pride of place in the sporting world this week must go to the Duagh National school girls football team. On Thursday last the girls won The North Kerry section of the Cumann na mBunscol Mini 7,s. On the way to victory the girls defeated Ballybunion GNS,Ballyduff NS and Slievaddra NS. The team had then qualified for the Kerry county finals where the team would play qualifiers from all the Kerry districts.This competition was held on Saturday last in Tralee.Weather conditions in Tralee were very poor but the girls did very well. In Section A Duagh NS came out on top and so qualified for the county semi final. Along the way the team overcame Kenmare NS,Scoil Mhic Easmainn Tralee and Waterville NS and so qualified to meet Dingle NS in the semi final. The team had a facile victory over Dingle and so qualified for the final v Caherciveen.Caherciveen is now the home of ladies football in Kerry so the Duagh girls knew that the final would be tough. Playing against a stong wind in the first half Duagh turned over at half time just 2 points behind and there was great confidence in the camp. The lead was quickly reduced to a point but then lady luck completely deserted the Duagh girls.The posts and uprights were hit about five times and there were two more wides. Then in the last kick of the game the ball was sailing directly for a score of a least a point but again the ball rebounded of the crossbar and came out the field,game over.The girls were a bit disconsilate for a while but all involved were very proud of the team.The girls were a credit to their school and to their parents. Duagh NS would like to thank all parents who helped on the day with cars refreshments etc. Duagh NS panel:Shauna Stack,Eimear Fitzgerald,Sinead Greaney,Sarah Sheehy,Eilis Dillon,Sorcha McNulty,Laura Sheeran,Yvonne Carmody,Julia Collins Mariah Stack. GAA:Duagh had a narrow one point victory 1-9 to 1-8 over Glenbeigh/Glencar in a county league at Duagh last weekend. In an entertaining game played on a perfect playing surface at Duagh on Sunday last the locals won by the narrowest of margins 1-9 to 1-8.On a blustery but dry day Glenbeigh had wind advantage in the first half and raced in to a four points to one lead mid way through the half. Duagh rallied with two points one from play and one from a free. Duagh were then unfortunate to lose midfielder Declan Griffin with an angle injury. Griffin had been playing well at the time. Glenbeigh replied with two further points approaching half time before Duagh scored a point from play just on half time to leave the score 0-6 to 0-4 in Glenbeigh's favour. Duagh now playing with the wind in the second half fancied their chances and on resumption scored three good points from play to lead by a point half way through the half. Then Glenbeigh pointed to level scores again 0-7 each. Two more points followed for Duagh before a good Duagh move was finished to the net by minor Daniel O Donoghue to put the Duagh side in a commanding position with about eight minutes to go. Glenbeigh however were not finished and a good passing movement was fisted to the Duagh net by Darren O Sullivan. The mid Kerry men had their tails up at this stage and an attack was pointed with two minutes remaining, to reduce the Duagh lead to one point. As the clock ticked over Glenbeigh had one last chance to equalise but the ball spilled from the attacking player and was cleared by Duagh as the final whistle sounded. The Duagh juniors are in action this weekend. The seniors have no game and will resume the following weekend with a home venue couny league game v Moyvane. POKER:The AGM of the Duagh 'Poker Run' committee will take place at O Briens Bar Duagh on Thursday April 6th at 9pm. MEMBERSHIP:Duagh GAA club membership is now open at ?20 and will be open for a little longer.To qualify for the draw for future match tickets you must be a club member. Some people left it too late to join last year and could not be included in later club draws for tickets.These notes will be the only way people will be informed of GAA membership and of closing dates. Membership may be had from club secretary Liam Dennehy Foildarrig. FEIS:Duagh School of Dancing prize winners at Listowel Feis:Single Jig Under 6 Katelyn Dennehy (Trophy),Youngest Dancer:Michelle Walsh (Trophy),Boys Jig Under 6 3rd Thomas Dore. Single Jig Under 8 1st Tamzyn Hartigan (Trophy) 2nd Katie Ahern,Fionnula Mangan. 3rd Leona O Regan,Majelle Lucey,Jessica Heffernan. Double Jig Under 8 1st Kylie Walsh (Trophy),3rd Orlaith Fitzgerald,Grainne Sheehy,Rebecca Murphy. Girls Hornpipe Under 8:2nd Grainne Sheehy. Double Jig 10-12 years 2nd Grainne Sheehy. Slow Jig 10-12 years 2nd Sarah Sheehy.Girls Hornpipe 10-12 years 2nd Sarah Sheehy.Solo Reel Under 6 1st Margaret Walsh (Trophy),2nd Katelyn Dennehy.Solo Reel Under 8 1st Kylie Walsh (Trophy),3rd Aisling McCarthy,Tamzyn Hartigan. Light Reel Under 8 3rd Grainne Sheehy,Orlaith Fitzgerald. Treble Reel 10-12 years 1st Sarah Sheehy (trophy). Listowel Championship 10-12 years3rd Sarah Sheehy. Polka Set Under 10 3rd Kylie Walsh and set.Under 10 Waltzing competition Boys & Girls: 1st Kylie Walsh and Conor Prendiville (2 Cups). All the dancers were from Duagh NS and the Jimmy Hickey School of Dancing. They were a credit to their parents and teachers. Well done to all. SHANNONSIDE:No Name Club Easter Disco The Shannonside No Name Club will be running an Easter Disco on Friday 7th of April from 9.00pm-12.00 at Moyvane Community Centre. Music by DJ Chico. Admission: ?10. This is an alcohol free disco. CHERNOBYL CHILDRENS AID: A dance will be held this Saturday night at Jack Falys Bar in Jan Jaes function room, in aid of Chernobyl Children. Music by the Knight in Gales. Kathleen Collins of Jack Foleys Bar, Abebeyfeale, would like to thank everyone who supported the quiz, in aid of Chernobyl children, last Friday night, people who gave spot prizes, also to quiz masters Marian Harnett, Lorcan Curtin, Paddy Finucane. Finuge Two valuable away points were collected in the County League following the long trip by Finuge senior footballers to Sneem at the weekend. Attention of GAA followers now switches to Kerry’s vital clash with Dublin in Killarney. After two narrow losses, the home team must win to qualify for the quarterfinal of the National League. Vouchers The Parents’ Council of Killocrim School wishes to thank all who supported the bag-packing fundraiser at Garvey’s Super Value on Saturday last. This is also the last week to post off the “Kids in Action” tokens from the same store and the school would appreciate any that are left lying around the house. SCOR NA BPAISTI: Congratulations to the pupils of Dromclough NS, who performed excellently to gain first place in the majority of competitions in the Scor competition, held in Asdee last Saturday night. By winning the music group, figure dance, set dance, solo singing and the quiz, these groups will now go forward to the next round to be held after Easter. Pupils also participated in the ballad group and recitation competitions and likewise were a credit to the school. Best wishes to all in the forthcoming round. GAA: The u-14s were unlucky to lose at home to St Senans by one point 2-5 to 1-9 in the first round of the county league. A goal from Eoin O’Sullivan helped Finuge to a half time lead of 1-3 to 0-4. Senans came storming back in the second half and took the lead with a fine goal with five minutes left to play. Finuge weren’t going to give up the ghost and laid siege to the Senans goals before Cathal McCarthy gave the lead back to Finuge with a real opportunist goal. With time running out, Senans had the last say when they stole inside a tight marking Finuge defence and planted the ball in the net. This proved to be the decisive score even though Finuge had a number of chances to draw level but all went abegging. Never the less, it was a good all round performance from Finuge for their first outing of the season and they can look forward to their next game which is against Tarbert on this Wednesday evening in Finuge. Best for Finuge were Liam Power in goals, Brendan Brosnan, Gearoid Walshe, Jonathan Silles, Tomas O’Keeffe, Cathal McCarthy and Eoin O’Sullivan. Foynes HOLY week schedule of ceremonies. Sunday, April 9, Palm Sunday, mass at usual times. Tuesday, April 11, Chrism mass, St Johns Cathedral 8pm. Wednesday, April 12, Penitential service, Foynes 7pm. Holy Thursday, mass Shanagolden 8pm, Adoration 9pm to 11pm. Confessions after each ceremony. Good Friday, Passion ceremony, Robertstown 3pm, Stations of the Cross Foynes 6.30pm, Shanagolden 8pm. Holy Saturday, Easter vigil Foynes 9pm. Confession Foynes 11am, Shanagolden 12.30pm. Easter Sunday, Mass Knockpatrick 5.30am. Parish masses usual times. W LIMERICK SET DANCING: Club will hold a ceili on Sunday, April 9 at the Convent Hall, Abbeyfeale at 4pm. Music by Swallows Tail. COMMUNITY GAMES: Year in year out St Senans community gams came up with surprises on the playing pitches or stage and 2006 is proving no different. Last weekend St Senans took 8 gold medals. On Friday night in Rathkeale, our modern dance group Zoe Russell, Stacy Bagshaw, Katie McMahon and Carrie Hayes danced to perfection to take gold under the guidance of Sara Slattery. On Sunday in Roxboro Hall, Niamh Finn, Shauna Buckley, Avril Fox, Rachael Naughton took gold in u13 project competition, entitled Our Local Heritage. This group was managed by Vincent Buckley. Fund raising is now taking place with a table quiz on Thursday, April 13 at Paddy Joes, Shanagolden. Kerry Deaf Hello to all our members and readers. We hope you are enjoying the longer and brighter evenings.We'd like to start by thanking Tony Sheill from the Royal Association for the Deaf and his colleagues for meeting with members of our service during the week in Limerick. We have now completed our funding applications for our Youth Exchange- lets hope we will be successful and obtain the funding. We really appreciate the support from RAD especially with the funding applications. Kenmare Church has recently installed a loop system. The Kingdom Hall of Jehovah Witnesses has also taken the initiative and installed a loop system too. We are really grateful for both of these services for improving access for hard of hearing members. In addition to the above, the AIB Bank in Tralee has introduced counter loops which should improve access for bank customers. If there is a place where you would like to see improvements in access, please let us know and we will write to those services and businesses. The planned inter-agency meetings with the Health Service Executive have been postponed until individuals meetings are planned with each of the agencies. We want to ensure the views of all our members are represented at this meeting. If you are Deaf, hard of hearing, a parent/family member or a person with a cochlear implant and interested in attending these meetings, please contact us. Our contact details- Kerry Deaf Resource Centre, 4 Gas Terrace, Tralee Tel: 0667120399/ E-mail: kdrc@eircom.net Website: www.kerrydeaf.com Kerry ICA THIS year sees the election of a new National President of ICA. To give members an opportunity to see and hear the three prospective presidential candidates, regional meetings are being held throughout the country. The Munster meeting will be held in the Hibernian Hotel in Mallow, Co Cork on Tuesday, April 11 at 7.15pm. The meeting is being sponsored by Pfizer Healthcare Ireland. The three candidates are Carmel Dawson, Carlow; Aloma McKay, Co Clare and Peg McMeel from Dublin. It would be good to see as many members as possible at this meeting. SOCIAL NIGHT: A very enjoyable get together of the Guilds in West Kerry was held in Camp on Thursday, March 30. The night was the brainchild of Liz O’Leary of Annascaul Guild who unfortunately, was unable to attend but Roz Ward was an excellent MC. This is an idea that could be taken up by other Guilds who are adjacent to each other. WALK: Now is the time to get in a bit of walking practice for this year’s Walk for Breast Cancer Research, which will be taking place in Farranfore on Sunday, May 7 at 2.30pm. PITCH & PUTT: The final will be held in Tullamore on Wednesday, June 7. Federation finals to be completed by May 17. Kilflynn CAMOGIE: On Sunday April 2, the newly formed Abbeydorney/Lixnaw Camogie Club held a very Successful Open Day at Abbeydorney GAA pitch. The day was a tremendous success with 28 girls aged from 6 to 16 years taking part. During the afternoon, great fun was had by all and they were introduced to the skills of camogie. Hurleys and helmets were provided by Cumann Camogaiochta na nGael . We wish to thank them very sincerely for encouraging us to set up the club. The event was a huge success thanks to the coaches who helped out, Mikey Leahy, Ger Maunsell, Tom O’Connell and Timmy Spillane. Thanks also to those who sponsored refreshments for the afternoon. We invite any girls who are interested in playing camogie to come along and join us. The club is not confined to the Abbeydorney/Lixnaw area. We welcome girls from the surrounding areas and also from Tralee and Listowel. Training commences on Wednesday night April 5th in Lixnaw Community Centre from 7-8 pm and will continue there for the month of April. We ask each girl attending to bring ?1. Registration for the Club will commence on Wednesday night. KILFLYNN DANCERS SOCIAL: The Kilflynn Dancing Group held their Annual Social night on Saturday night 1st April at Ballyroe Heights Hotel, Tralee. Up to fifty people enjoyed a lovely meal and John Pat Murphy provided plenty of music for the group to show off their dancing skills. The dancing group is now in its 10th year, and is one of the longest running in the county. ANNUAL BALLYSEEDY MARTYRS COMMEMORATION - A large crowd turned out on Sunday, April 2nd, to pay tribute to those Republicans who lost their lives at Ballyseedy and also at Clashmealcon, Causeway during the Civil War. The march, led by the Ballyseedy Martyrs Band, commenced at Kilflynn Bridge and made it's way to the burial place of Lyon's, Tuomey and O'Shea. The commemoration was chaired by Johnny Hannon and he paid tribute to the large attendance. He said that such an attendance was testament to the esteem in which the memories of the men were still held. Wreaths were laid and the oration was delivered by North Kerry Sinn Fein TD, Martin Ferris, who paid tribute to those who paid the ultimate price for their commitment to the struggle for Irish Freedom. The commemoration ended with the playing of Amhran na bhFian. A very enjoyable evening was had by all at a Ballad Session at Parker's Bar, with The Dodgy Few proving the music. CROTTA LOTTO RESULTS - The Four numbers drawn out of the drum by the Independent observer Paudie Sheehy, Keel in The Crotta hurling club lotto Draw on Monday night 3rd April in Parker‚s bar were: 14, 15, 23 & 24. There were no winners of the ?1,200 Jackpot. The lucky dip winners each receive ?35: Cathal O‚Connell, Rae, Kilflynn, Tom Thring, Cronin‚s Bar, Kilflynn and Elaine Fealy, Abbey Grill, Abbeydorney. The Next draw will take place in Parker‚s Pub on Monday 10th April with a ?1,300 Jackpot. Tickets are available at ?2 from Club tickets sellers or from Cronin's Bar, Parker's Bar and Murray‚s Supermarket, Kilflynn. CROTTA U-16S - The Crotta under 16 hurlers were defeated by Ballyheigue on Sunday evening 2nd April on the 4-05 to 2-06 score line in the North Kerry u-16 championship. Crotta team and scorers: Aaron Sheehan, Maurice Mc Elligott, Luke Ward, Padraig O‚Leary, Sean Weir (0-01), Gary Marshall (1-00), Cian Couinhan ,Eric Hannifin, Darragh Mc Aulliffee, Sean Hurley, Keith Hannifin (0-01), Eoin O‚Sullivan, Shane Nolan (0-04(2f), Thomas Quille (1-00), Max Hayes, and Maurice O‚Connor. Crotta play Ardfert in the next round on Tuesday 4th April in Ardfert at 6.30 p.m. CHURCH NEWS - Those Required for Church duties in St. Mary's Church, Kilflynn are follows: Readers for: Saturday 8th and Sunday 9th April Vigil: Helen Condon Passion Helen Kelly-Fuller and Pauline Gleasure. Morning: The Neenan Family, Passion: Francis White and Mary Mc Kenna. Eucharistic Ministers for Saturday 8th and Sunday 9th April, Vigil: Sheila Walsh, Morning: Jimmy Walsh.. Saturday's Vigil mass is for Margaret and Timmy Nolan, Crotta Cross and Sunday morning mass at 10. a.m. is for Nellie Neenan, Crotta who died recently. Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament: Mondays in St. Mary's from 4.00 p.m. to 9.00 p.m. Collectors for April: Tom Mc Elligott, Margaret Dillon and Jimmy Walsh. Altar Society for April: Bess Cashell and Anne Sheehan. The Ardfert ladies Gospel choir will be singing at the vigil Mass in St. Mary‚s Church, Kilflynn on Saturday 8th April. MASS TIMES - The Saturday evening Vigil Mass will be at the new time of 8.30 p.m. and the Sunday morning mass will be at the usual time of 10.00 a.m.. 21st BIRTHDAY - Congratulations to Brendan Culhane, Crotta who celebrated his 21st Birthday, with his family, relatives and friends at Party in Cronin‚s Bar on Friday night last. LOURDES - Kerry Diocesan Pilgrimage to Lourdes will take place on September 2nd to 7th led by Bishop Bill Murphy. Further details from Torc Travel, Killarney 064-32911. DARTS - The weekly Darts Doubles Tournament winners on Saturday night last at Parker‚s lounge Bar were: Phil Morris and John Mulvihill who defeated Mike Fealy and John Goodall In the final. The weekly Darts Doubles Tournament will continue this Saturday night, Names to be in for the draw at 10.15 p.m. The Winners will receive a Leg of Lamb each. HURLING FIXING - Richard Nolan, The Waterfall, Kilflynn successfully completed a Hurley banding course at Causeway Comprehensive School recently .Richard is now available to fix Juvenile Hurleys. DRAMA GROUP - The Abbeydorney Drama Society presents their play The Beauty Queen of Leenane by Martin Mc Donagh at Abbeydorney Community Hall, Wednesday night 5th, Friday night 7th and Sunday 9th April at 8.30 p.m. sharp each night. Adult Audience. Bookings: Anne Leahy 066-35722 7.00 p.m. to 9.00 p.m. CROTTA SENIORS - The Crotta Senior Hurlers got their season off on a winning note, with an impressive victory over Kilmoyley in the North Kerry league on Monday evening 3rd April on a 2-11 to 0-15 final score line. Crotta led at half time by 1-06 to 0-07. Crotta team and scorers: Jerome O‚Sullivan, John P. Quilter, Tom B Mc Elligott, Philip Twomey, Darren Twomey, Tom Cronin (0-01), Pa Quille, Andrew Keane (0-01), David Galvin, Colm Mc Elligott, Paul Culhane, Matt Lynch (0-01), Francis Keane (1-01), Cyril Lynch and Sean Twomey (1-07). Subs: Richard Nolan for C. Mc Elligott, J. Caffrey, D. O‚Donnell. Crotta play Abbeydorney in the next round on Monday evening 10th April at 6.30 p.m. in Abbeydorney. KERRY HURLERS - The Crotta hurling club was represented by Andrew Keane at centre field on the Kerry Senior Hurling team that defeated Kildare on Sunday in the National league Div 2 at Austin Stacks Park, Tralee on the Score of 1-12 to 0-09. Kilmoyley CILLARD CAMOGIE CLUB: Training will continue on next Sunday 9th April for U-10 and U-12 between 12.15 and 1.30 pm at Ardfert Sports Field. U-14 and U-16 at 6.15 at Kilmoyley Sports Field. Remember it is not too late to join. Any girls 7 years and over welcome. Contact 086-3317101. A special note of thanks to Niall Horgan and the Harrington Family for their kind donations. Training sessions are going very well and many thanks to all the volunteers and the interest shown by all those involved. GAA – MINOR FIXTURES: U-12 Co. League – Kilmoyley V Ardfert on Friday 7th April at 7pm. Venue Ardfert. U-16 North Kerry League – Kilmoyley V Causeway Tuesday 11th. Venue Causeway at 6.30pm. TAKE YOUR PICK DRAW: No winner of the jackpot. Consolation prize to Maura O Sullivan, Ballymacquinn, ?40. Ticket seller winners Orla Young and Mairead O Mahony. Names drawn for grand prize draw, Michael Harrington, Declan Ryan and David Dineen. Independent observer Hanna Mai Leen, Ardfert. Thanks to everyone for all the support. Next draw Easter Sunday night 16th April. Jackpot ?1100. GOLF CLASSIC: The Kilmoyley Hurling Club Golf Classic will again be held in Ballyheigue Castle Golf Club on Saturday May 6th. Team sponsorship is ?160 per team, Tee boxes ?50. For further information contact Michael Meehan at 066-7134551. Early booking essential. ST. BRENDAN’S ATHLETICS CLUB: Registration will be held in Ardfert Community Centre on Wednesday 5th April at 7.30pm. Cost ?15 for first child, ?10 for each other child from same family. Enquiries to 087-4134468 SCOIL NAOMH EIRC: Well done to the children from Kilmoyley National School who took part in the “Scor Na bPaisti” competition in Lixnaw on Saturday night. Kilmoyley, Ardfert, Drumnacurra and Ballyduff took part. The following were the children who took part – Aine Leen – Recitation. Claire Breen – Solo singing. David Ryan, Richard Raftery and Aine Leen – Quiz. Sharon O Mahony, Eoin McCarthy, Saidhbhe Horgan, Paudie Godley, Maura Godley, Padraig O Connor, Shane Monahan and Orla Young – Set Dancing. Special word of praise to Padraig O Connor who stepped in at short notice for Fiachra King who was unable to attend on the night. Congratulations to Ardfert and Drumnacurra Schools who came out on top. CONGRATULATIONS: To the girls who took part in Geraldine O Connors Dance and Drama entertainment at Siamsa Tire at the weekend. The show was a great success and well done to Katie Brassil, Aisling Dowling, Rebecca Keating Browne, Erin Lonergan, Rachel O Mahony, Marianne Nolan, Kayce Keane and Katlyn Casey who put on great performances. COMMUNITY GAMES: Well done to Katie Brassil, of Kilmoyley National School who along with Alison Shanahan and Maura O Connell of Abbeydorney who represented Abbeydorney in the U-13 Project final at the weekend. Their project a “journey through our parish” won them 2nd place in the County. ABBEYDORNEY DRAMA GROUP: Best of luck to Jean O Connell, Ballinorig and the cast of the Abbeydorney Drama Group who stage the “Beauty Queen of Leenane” this week at the Community Hall, Abbeydorney. Tickets can be purchased from Anne Leahy at 7135722. COMMUNITY CARE LOTTO: The numbers drawn in this weeks lotto were 6,14,18,23. There was no jackpot winner. Two ?50 winners were – Niall Meehan, Lerrig and Karen Nolan, Ardrahan. Next weeks jackpot ?1000. As the Easter holiday is now coming up it would be appreciated if supporters of the lotto could pay up for two weeks in advance. This would mean that sellers would not have to call at Easter to houses. Kingdom Hunt Club Sunday last was our last hunting day for this season and was a great day out once again and was described as a" rattling hunt" with lots of great runs and big ditches etc. and lots of very dirty jackets after this one! Our thanks to the organizers, to the land owners for the use of their lands, and to Pat and the staff of the Old Killarney Inn for the great hospitality and I believe the party went on well into Sunday night and all reported having a great time. Our apologies to the organizers of Tarbert hunt on March 26th for the non appearance of the notes in last week's paper, it too was a great day and our thanks to the land owners and especially for the new ground this year, thanks to Des and team for organizing a great day and to Carmodys for the great hospitality. As this in the end of the season, we would especially like to say thanks to a lot of people. All the land owners who gave us great jumps, dykes, ditches and long runs during the season. The organizers of each hunt for doing a great job. All the host pubs for the wonderful hospitality shown each Sunday To Donal, Dan, and Paddy for the great care of the hounds. To Kieran for a job well done, to Dan and all the drag-pullers each Sunday, to Gerard and all cap-collectors, to the joint -masters, John and Tim for all their help. There will be various activities taking place during the summer season i.e Race night, Bar B Q, and charity ride out, so watch out for notification in these notes and also on www.thekingdomhuntclub.ie <http://www.thekingdomhuntclub.ie> notes. HUNT BALL: At our hunt ball in Killarney, a jacket is still missing, it is a jacket of a dark suit and not a hired out one and should anybody discover that they took the wrong jacket home on the night please contact Billy Connell, Kilmoyley or any committee member. Also our thanks to the organizers of the Hunt Ball and to the Dromhall Hotel. also please note for next years Hunt Ball only club members over the age of 18 will be allowed attend. Kingdom Pony Club Hunter Trials: All roads lead to Joe & Marie Arthurs next Sunday 8th April for the Hunter Trials hosted by the Kingdom Pony Club. Starters Orders for the Competitors at 10.30 commencing with the U12 Pairs, U12 Individuals, Novice Pairs & Individuals, Junior Pairs & Individuals followed by Senior Pairs, Individuals & Teams of three, time allowing. All help would be greatly appreciated on the day and please bring along a friend as there will be plenty job opportunities on the day! Test: Good luck to all members who are taking their D+ test on this Friday night in Tralee Equestrian Centre. Minimus: Any member wishing to compete in the Minimus please forward your name to Julie @066/7135477 or 087/2278224 without delay. Any member that wishes to be considered for the showjumping team please forward your name to Julie also to enable training commence. Knocknagoshel SELDOM in the past have we witnessed floods comparable as to those that were to be seen in Knocknagoshel parish last week. Downpour after downpour saw the river burst their banks, along the valleys as the water cascaded towards the Feale. The rain has certainly made land very wet and has thrown back the Spring two to three weeks. All cattle are virtually indoors still, which has caused forage supply to dwindle. Presently, millers are doing a roaring trade. WONDERFUL ENTERTAINMENT: Knocknagoshel Comm Ctr on Sunday evening last was choc a block or Scor Na bPaisti. A total of 7 Schools from the Castleisland district competed. From 2-3 to 6 patrons were treated to first class entertainment. All competitions were keenly contested and judged most impartially. That great Gael, Dermot Crowley of Churchill proved a wonderful quiz master, while MC was Richard Cotter, ably assisted by Joan Collins. Kilmurry NS was overall winner and playing a major input in this victory was School principal, Ina Hogan, who lets no stone unturned in preparation for these contests. The community centre looked its best for the occasion, thanks to the committee who run it. RAG MEETING: Abbeyfeale Search and Rescue are staging a monster rag meeting at Dromtrasna on this Sunday, April 9. There are a number of very valuable stakes on offer, with something to suit all greyhounds. This annual event has proved to be a noted crowd puller, with patrons coming from far and near. RANDALLS ISLAND: The news from New York, would seem to suggest that the proposed GAA move from Gaelic Park to Randalls Island is now somewhat up in the air. During a memorable trip to the Big Apple in 1997, we had the pleasure of attending the Kerry v Cavan jubilee game in Randalls Island. On the coach trip from Manhattan we recall Danny Nolan, Cloghane and Brendan Cotter, Meenleitrim, coming on board the coach at a bus stop. Also on hat coach was Fr Tom Looney, then billeted in Tuosist, nowadays in Kilcummin. Survivors of the 1947 Kerry and Cavan teams including Eddie Walshe of Knocknagoshel were presented to the crowd on that historic occasion. DEATH: The death occurred in Birmingham recently of Nora O’Sullivan, nee Walsh, late of Knockalougha. Mass was offered for the repose of her soul in St Marys Church on Wednesday last by Fr Eddie Morrissey. Sympathy is extended to all her relatives and friends. GAA: Results, Co League St Senans 0-6, Knock 1-9. Co minor league, Sneem/Derrynane 2-6, Knock/Brosna 5-15. Fixtures Co minor league, Knock/Brosna v Firies Walsh Park. COISTE NA NOG: Results NK u16 league Duagh 1-9, Knock/Brosna 0-12. District u16 Currow 6-7, Knock/Brosna 0-9. U14 Co league Knock 7-15, Annascaul 0-5. FIXTURES: U14 Co league Brosna v Knock in Brosna, Wed, April 5, 7pm. U16 district Knock/Brosna v Churchill, Walsh Pk, Sunday, April 9, 12pm. U16 NK league, Knock/Brosna v Tarbert Walsh Park, Monday, April 10, 6.45pm. SCOR NA BPAISTI: The Castleisland District final was held in Knocknagoshel Comm Ctr on Sunday. 7 Schools took part. Knocknagoshel NS took part in four sections, but did not get through in any. The following are the results, figure dancing 1st Gaelscoil, 2nd Kilmurry, solo singing 1st Gaelscoil, 2nd Currow. Instrumental music, 1st Clogher, 2nd Brosna. Recitation 1st Kilmurry, 2nd Gaelscoil. Ballad group 1st Currow, 2nd Gaelscoil. Question time, 1st Currow, 2nd Kilmurry. Novelty Act 1st Kilmurry, 2nd Knocknagoshel. Set dancing, 1st Kilmurry, 2nd Currow. Best overall School, Kilmurry. All details on our web site www.knocknagoshelgaa.com. KERRY V DUBLIN: Gales are looking forward to the trip to Fitzgerald Stadium, this Sunday for the clash of Kerry v Dublin in a vital national league game. Kerry will certainly have to improve a lot, before the c’ship, if theres any hope of Sam coming back to his natural home. Lixnaw CAMOGIE: On Sunday April 2nd, the newly formed Abbeydorney/ Lixnaw Camogie Club held a very Successful Open Day at Abbeydorney GAA pitch. The day was a tremendous success with 28 girls aged from six to 16 years taking part. During the afternoon, great fun was had by all and they were introduced to the skills of camogie. Hurleys and helmets were provided by Cumann Camogaiochta na nGael . We wish to thank them very sincerely for encouraging us to set up the club. The event was a huge success thanks to the coaches who helped out, Mikey Leahy, Ger Maunsell, Tom O’Connell and Timmy Spillane. Thanks also to those who sponsored refreshments for the afternoon. We invite any girls who are interested in playing camogie to come along and join us. The club is not confined to the Abbeydorney/Lixnaw area. We welcome girls from the surrounding areas and also from Tralee and Listowel. Training commences on Wednesday night April 5th in Lixnaw Community Centre from 7-8 pm and will continue there for the month of April. We ask each girl attending to bring ?1. Registration for the Club will commence on Wednesday night. 
COMHALTAS: The branch would like to wish all its competitors the best of luck at this weekend's Kerry Fleadh Cheoil, to be held in Milltown. 
COURSING CLUB LOTTO DRAW: Jackpot ?3300. Numbers drawn, 15, 20, 22, 25. NO JACKPOT WINNER ?25 winners, Pat Bawn McCarthy, Dublin. Pat Sullivan, Rathea, Listowel. Paddy McCarthy, Ahabeg, Lixnaw. Joe Keane, Ballinagare.Lixnaw. FIVE FREE TICKET WINNERS Pat Hayes, Gortnaminch, Listowel . Pat McMahon. Ballinagare, Lixnaw. Next Draw: Anglers Rest, Mon 10th April .Hurling Club: Fixtures: U12 County B League, Lixnaw V Ballyheigue in Lixnaw on Friday April 7th @ 6-30pm. North Kerry Senior League, Lixnaw V Ballyheigue in Lixnaw on Monday April 10th @ 6-30pm. North Kerry Intermediate/Junior League, Lixnaw V Abbeydorney in Abbeydorney on Wednesday April 5th @ 6-45pm County Minor League, Lixnaw v Kenmare/Kilgarven in Kenmare on Sun 9th April @ 12.00pm Kerry News: Mixed fortunes for Kerry hurlers over the weekend. The minors were well and truly beaten by Waterford in the Munster championship last Saturday in Killarney despite in fairness the best efforts of the Kerry lads who did try to the very end. James Flaherty was our only representative on the starting fifteen lining out at corner forward. Keith Boyd, Martin Stackpoole and Robert Wallace were on the panel. They play the losers of Clare/Tipperary next Thursday April 13th at a Kerry venue. The senior hurlers defeated Kildare 1-12 to 0-9 in Austin Stack Park last Sunday. Again we had only one representative on the team and that was John Griffin at mid-field. Michael Quilter and Michael Conway are both out injured. Kerry have now qualified for the semi-finals of the league which will be in two weeks time. Congratulations: To Ger Lovett, The Village who celebrated his 21st birthday last weekend. Meeting: The next hurling club meeting will be on this Thursday evening in the clubrooms @ 8-30pm. Lyreacrompane 
LOTTO: There was no winner of last week’s jackpot of ?3,700 the numbers drawn were 10,14,18,23. The ?35 was won by Aodhan Miller, C/o James Ahern, Lyre and the ?20 by Mary Byrnes, Duagh. The four sets of free tickets for next weeks jackpot of ?3,850 were won by Emma, Shane and Cliona Leane, Lyre, Mikie O’Connor, Lyre, Peggy Lynch, Lyre and Conor Keane, Beaufort. The whiskey was won by Maurice Curtin, Lyre and the voucher by Mary Leane, Lyre. Know Your Rights Question: My employer appears to be paying me less than the national minimum wage as he provides me with accommodation. How much can my employer allow for the accommodation when calculating my wage? Answer: The National Minimum Wage Act, 2000 provides that the minimum wage rate for an experienced adult employee since 1 May 2005 is ?7.65 per hour. Other workers are entitled to a reduced payment. An experienced adult employee for the purposes of the Minimum Wage Act is an employee who has any employment whatsoever in any two years over the age of 18. The legislation also allows for certain items to be taken into account when calculating an employee's rate of pay. Where an employer provides board and/or lodgings, the amounts allowed for are as follows: For full board and lodgings - ?54.13 per week or ?7.73 per day For full board only - ?32.14 per week or ?4.60 per day For lodgings only - ?21.85 per week or ?3.14 per day While your employer can deduct a certain amount for providing you with accommodation he cannot allow for more than the appropriate amount given above when calculating your hourly average rate of pay. If you have a dispute with your employer about the national minimum wage you can try to resolve the matter with your employer directly and if it is still unresolved you can refer your dispute to a Rights Commissioner of the Labour Relations Commission. Further information is available from the Employment Rights Information Unit, Department of Enterprise, Trade and Employment, Davitt House, 65a Adelaide Road, Dublin 2. Tel: (01) 631 2121, Lo-Call: 1890 201 615 Website: www.entemp.ie or from the Citizens Information Centre below. Further information is available from your local Citizens Information Centre. Killarney - 064) 32297 Email: killarney.cic@comhairle.ie Tralee - 066) 712 3655 Email: tralee.cic@comhairle.ie Caherciveen - 066) 947 3515 Email: caherciveen.cic@comhairle.ie Castleisland - 066) 714 3992 Email: castleisland.cic@comhairle.ie Dingle - 066) 915 2280 Email: dingle.cic@comhairle.ie Kenmare - 064) 41000 Email: kenmare.cic@comhairle.ie Killorglin - 066) 979 0856 Email: killorglin.cic@comhairle.ie Listowel - 068) 22937 Email: listowel.cic@comhairle.ie Lo-call No: 1890 777 121. Web Site: www.oasis.gov.ie Lispole LOTTO: NÌ raibh aon buaiteoir den Pota air ?8,600 na seachtaine seo caite. Uimhreacha na seachtaine seo caite 1, 15, 22 agus 25. BuaiteoirÌ ?50 Maura Bawn, C/o Bawns, Dingle; Maureen Moriarty, Glens, Dingle; Celeste Slye, Ballyferriter; Ronan & Kieran O'Sullivan, Reenbee. Next draw will be held on Wednesday the 5th of April in The Brewery Gate with a Jackpot of ?8,750. LTHCHLEAS GAEL RESULTS: Lios Poil senior footballers were defeated by Beale in the 2nd round of the county league played in Ballybunion on Sunday last the 2nd of April. Final score was Lios Poil 0-10 Beale 1-4. The Lios Poil minor team defeated Renard in their county league game played in Lios Poil on Friday evening last the 31st of March. BORD NA NOG: Lios Poil under 12 team defeated St Pat's of Blennerville in the West Kerry league played in Lios Poil on Sunday evening last the 2nd of April. The Lios Poil under 14's travelled to Rathmore on Wednesday last the 29th of March and suffered their first defeat of the year. Dreadful conditions made it very difficult for both sides but home advantage stood to Rathmore who managed to pull away at the end of a well, contested game. Lios Poil went in at half time trailing 1 - 04 to 0 - 03 but within 5 minutes of the second they had drawn level. The remainder of the half was a close affair with only a kick of the ball between both sides. However Rathmore seemed to handle the conditions a little better towards the end and pulled away at the finish. Final score: Rathmore 4-8, Lios Poil 2-4. CONFIRMATION: Best of luck to the boys and girls of Scoil Eoin Baiste who will be receiving Confirmation on Wednesday next the 5th of April from Bishop Murphy in St Mary's Church, Dingle at 3:30pm. SEACHTAIN: A repeat of Seachtain, which featured Scoil Eoin Baiste this week will be on tonight Wednesday the 5th at 1am. PIONEER QUIZ: Congratulations to the under 16 and under 13 Pioneer quiz teams who have qualifed for the All-Ireland final which will be held in Co. Meath on the 22nd of April. All but one of the team members are former pupils of Scoil Eoin Baiste. The under 16 team members are Mark Kavanagh, Tadghie Evans, Eanna Mac Gearailt and Gerald Lovett. The under 13 team members are Toms Power, Matthew Sen Griffin, Colum Galvin and Conal Mac Gearailt. The best of luck to both teams in the All-Ireland final. DEATH: The death took place on Friday last the 31st of March of Mary Keane, Graigue. Burial took place on Sunday April 2nd to Milltown Cemetery. CLUICHI POBAIL LIOS POIL: Snamh: Comhghairdeachas le Sarah NÌ Cheilleachair a bhuaigh bonn airgid sa Backstroke do chailinÌ fÈ 14 i dTra Li de Domhnaigh seo chaite. ImeachtaÌ le Teach Ficheall fÈ 12 agus 16 ar sil i Halla Pobail Lios Poil DÈ Satharn seo chughainn 8 Aibrean ag tosnu ag 11 a chlog. Trath na gCeist fÈ 14: An cheadaoin 12 Aibrean i Darby O Gills Cill Airne ag tosu @ 7in. Treas Tire: Luan Casca i Beaufort ag tosnu 12 mean lae. LISPOLE COMMUNITY GAMES: Swimming: Congratulations to Sarah Kelliher who won a silver medal in the Girls under 14 Backstroke at the Kerry Community Games Finals held in the Sports Complex Tralee on Saturday last. CHESS: Lispole will once again host the County Finals of Chess on Saturday next April 8th commencing at 11am. QUIZ UNDER 14: It will be held in 
