sport gaa
{ Dermot Crowe 
    March 11 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/there-could-be-trouble-ahead-for-gaa-26247502.html }
IN Midleton the GAA has rugby for company and the odd  spot of comedy. Those attached to the oval office find  themselves feeling distinctly unworthy. The local team may  have risen from junior ranks to Division 2 of the AIL in just a couple of seasons but hurling remains the opium of the  masses. At least the rugby team manager has sufficient humour to cope. John Colbert confesses that he was "too bloody awkward" to play hurling, in the same breath paying due deference to its merits. You sense the final judgement wasn't his alone in a fertile environment like Midleton. The hurlers were good enough to win an All-Ireland club title in 1988, led by John Fenton, Kevin Hennessy and others, and that is a big seller in any parish. Colbert found salvation in rugby. "I took to the mud wrestling," he says self-deprecatingly, "as Paddy Fitzgerald tells me." Fitzgerald marked Eddie Keher with little pity in the 1966 All-Ireland hurling final another local martyr for the cause. Midleton hurling has dipped in the ratings since their last county title win in 1991 but the game still commands star billing. The GAA's more paranoid fears of rugby and soccer eating into their constituency are allayed by case studies like Midleton where the poverty gap between the GAA and rival sports remains significant. Kevin Hennessy is now Midleton's senior hurling manager and ecumenical to a fault in his responses to the competing claims of rugby on the town's youth. He played for the rugby club until he was 14, as Colbert recalls: "Years and years ago he played underage rugby, much to the chagrin of his father John, known as 'The Chief,' who was secretary of the east Cork GAA board at the time and also chairman of Midleton." But Hennessy focused solely on hurling after 14, shedding the rugby like a rocket losing its excess parts en route to space. He says his father was more democratic than already suggested and allowed him to decide what he ultimately wished to play. Of the current hurling squad none are playing rugby and only a few play soccer. Midleton College is a local post-primary school that has sports like rugby and hockey leading the way but the IRFU have already been through the corridors of the local CBS which is steeped in hurling. Mark McDermott, the IRFU's provincial development manager in Munster, describes it as a "staunch hurling school" where "the thoughts of us going in there would have some people turning in their graves." The IRFU's presence in Midleton has helped add 130 kids to the local club's register in the last 12 months and provides one small example of how the union is finally making a concerted effort to tap into rural areas. In terms of infrastructure and sheer penetration, the GAA is unrivalled. But some of this is by default as other sporting organisations like the IRFU and FAI simply didn't embark on a serious charm offensive until recent years. Their more determined efforts are concentrating minds within Croke Park. The IRFU had just two development officers in Munster when McDermott took up his post almost four years ago but that has been increased fivefold since. A major campaign is being launched in the schools, with mini and tag rugby (a non-contact game) proving extremely popular and exposing many kids to the sport for the first time. McDermott says that Cork and Tipperary, in particular, are areas where they feel they can make significant gains buoyed to no small extent by the seductive powers of television and the strides of Munster and Irish rugby in recent years. That glamorous international dimension is a marked advantage it like soccer enjoys over the GAA. Even in a peripheral location such as Dingle the IRFU has managed to make an impact. The local club is up and running three years which, McDermott admits, took some persuading in a Gaeltacht region which tended to look on the game as alien and Gaelic football as the one true religion. Dingle now boasts the only club in the country known by their Irish name. Cashel CS is another small success story. They recently reached the semi-final of the Munster Schools Junior Cup, a feat that would have been unthinkable five years ago, and much of this is credited to the IRFU's work on the ground. Not everywhere is so accommodating. Clare has been particularly hard to crack. Why? "Hurling, basically," McDermott replies. In terms of playing numbers the GAA, not surprisingly, leads the rest with well over 300,000 registered players. Rugby can claim just 64,000 by comparison, while soccer clocks in at 177,000. The Jack Charlton dividend doubled the soccer census from 60,000 to 120,000 between 1986 and 1990. While the GAA enjoys the huge advantage of a massive headstart in infrastructure and family tradition, it is dragging its heels on television. The impact of the Charlton years on soccer underlined the vast potential contained in the medium. It is powerful and seductive enough to erode many of the GAA's hard-earned gains. On the ground, the GAA can match and surpass anything the other sporting organisations throw up. They have 100 full-time coaches throughout the country and a big grip in most schools but in marketing and selling the product the GAA have been shy and conservative. If it wants to maintain its dominant position, that has got to change. The first Munster hurling final wasn't shown live on television until 1989 and the concessions have been increasing since then, with more matches broadcast today than ever before. But the fixtures programme and competition structures make for a scatter-gun approach and the GAA tends to look on how television should suit it, rather than how it might suit television. "We can be bursting a gut in coaching and games development but if we don't have the profile, particularly with television, we are like someone who tills a field that is not on great land," says Pat Daly, head of GAA coaching and games development. He has strong opinions on how the GAA should restructure its competitions in such a way as to maximise its television potential. He cites the Australian example where Aussie Rules league has claimed £300 million in television rights over last five years. That level of presence and profile is light years beyond what the GAA has experienced to date. While it moves at the pace it does, the prospects of rugby and soccer taking advantage grows. We won't see a dramatic collapse, like that predicted by doomsday forecasters after England won the World Cup in 1966 or when Jack Charlton had the country on a string 10 years ago. But the players of tomorrow may not be as predisposed to the GAA and its nuances as their parents and grandparents were. Gaelic football almost lost Jarlath Fallon when Galwegians offered him a part-time contract in autumn 1998. Despite having won an All-Ireland with Galway the only thing that stopped him from accepting was his age and the career implications. That Fallon, a player from the football heartland of Tuam and a graduate of the St Jarlath's academy, would be capable of making that leap shows that the risk factor exists already and is only going to increase. Galwegians' biggest gate was 4,000 against local rivals Buccaneers but Fallon enjoyed playing the game and was showing promise he had already won inter-provincial recognition. Jimmy Screene, a native of Menlough, played on Seamus Moynihan in the 1990 All-Ireland minor semi-final along with Fallon but later switched to rugby and won Ireland A caps. He joined Buccaneers when the club was formed in 1993 and will retire after seeing out his contract this year. He started playing rugby with Monivea five miles away at 17. "I'm not saying rugby is perfect but they seem more organised," he says. Matches not starting on time, referees failing to show up, and lengthy delays between matches are some of the criticisms he levels at the GAA. The ease with which some GAA players make the switch to rugby is also noteworthy. Brian Rigney, the former Buccaneers player and coach, comes from a large GAA family in Portlaoise. "Certainly," he says, "there is a lot of untapped potential in the non-rugby strongholds. Kids are impressionable and they go with what they see on TV." In Dungourney, six miles from Midleton and where the 1902 All-Ireland hurling champions hailed from, John Colbert says there's a hefty 11-year-old already catching the eye. "He'll be the next great Munster player they're telling me," he says. And he's not talking about the Railway Cup. 
