sport gaa
{  
    May 27 2013 02:38 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/gaa/abbeydorney-29287642.html }
Causeway Camogie Club: The Club are holding an open day on Sunday the 25th May from 12 noon to 2pm.  There will be a bouncy castle and face painting,and treats for every one, so young and not so young come along and meet the trainers and have some fun,hope to see you all there Christy Ring Cup: The draws for the semi finals of the Christy Ring Cup have been made Kerry will play Kildare on Saturday 25th May and Meath will play Down, County Div 2 Hurling League Abbeydorney 1-8 Kilmoyley 3-11. Abbeydorney got off to a good start in opening minutes with a goal by Tony Cunningham at half time ODorney 1-6 to Kilmoyleys 0-5, Kilmoyley played better in the second half with Aidan McCabe, Luke Fitzell and Brendan Harris standing out. Abbeydorney Team Panel: Ian Maunsell, David Clifford, Chris McCarthy, Der Lawlor, JP Byrne, Tommy OHalloran, William OLeary,David Doyle, Daniel OLeary, Stephen Egan, PJ Ryan, Mark Callaghan, Aaron Conway, Tony Cunningham, Adrian Buckley and Colm McCarthy. Kilmoyley Team Panel,Seamus Regan, Sean Nolan, Ian Brick, John Paul OMahoney, Padraig Sullivan, David Ryan, Gavin OConnor Brendan Harris,Pat Denihan, Aidan McCabe,Ger Carroll, Conor Fitzell, Joe McElligott, Michael Regan, Luke Fitzell,Subs James Murphy, John Godley, Maurice Fitzgearld. Match Referee Mike Hennessy Ballyduff. West Munster Senior Hurling League Group 2, Abbeydorney, Kilruane McDonaghs,Garryspillane, Lixnaw. 19th June Abbeydorney vs Kilruane McDonaghs. 26th June Garryspillane vs. Abbeydorney. 3rd July Lixnaw vs Abbeydorney. Fixtures: Double up game County Div 2 and NK Intermediate League Abbeydorney vs. Causeway in Causeway on Fri 24th May at 7pm ANNASCAUL Coiste Na Nog Un12 County League Phase 2 Well done to both Un12 teams on another great performance last Sunday evening at home to Ballymac having previously played Ardfert away the week before and doing as well in that first round. Fixtures Un12s: West Kerry League : Annascaul v Dinlge away this Thursday 23rd May @ 7pm. County League Rd 3: Away to Milltown/Castlemaine this Sunday 26th May @ 7pm. Un14 District Co Championship Rd 1: Well done to West Kerry Un14s on a great win over South Kerry last Wednesday evening in Lispole .Score 6-20 to 4-5. Fixture: Un14 West Kerry v Mid Kerry in the Quarter Finals in Keel this Wednesday evening 22nd May @ 7pm.Extra time if necessary. ARDFERT Ardfert Juvenile Football: U12 Co League Phase 2 B Milltown/Castlemaine played on 19/05/2013. Well done to our under 12's on their victories in Phase 2 of the Co League over Milltown/Castlemaine on Sunday evening last. Ardfert team A 4g-7pts Milltown/Castlemaine 1g-11pts. Played in perfect conditions in Ardfert this was a very entertaining game. Darragh Courtney got Ardfert off to the perfect start with a goal inside the first two minutes, Nathan Driscoll added a point before Milltown/Castlemaine hit back with a goal and 3 pts. However a goal from David Godley and a second from the outstanding Darragh Courtney put Ardfert ahead at half time 3g-1pt to 1g-4pts. The vital score of the second half came from Denis Horgan who scored the fourth goal for Ardfert. Denis also scored two excellent points to bring his tally to 1g-2pts in the second half. A point from a free from Earnan Ferris was to be the final score of a fantastic game. Final score Ardfert 4g-7pts Milltown/Castlemaine 1g-11pts . Team as follows C McDonagh, Conagh Fitzgerald, Katie O Shea, David Godley, Liam Flaherty, Brian Shanahan, Darragh Courtney(2-2), Colm Healy, Nathan Driscoll(3pts), Denis Horgan(1-2), Earnan Ferris (1pt). Ardfert Team B 5gls-10pts Milltown/Castlemaine Team B 4gls -8 pts. Ardfert Team B 5-10 Milltown Castlemaine Team B 4-8 Ardfert had a great victory over Milltown/Castlemaine in this under 12 Game on Sunday last. Ardfert led at half time 3-4 to 2-4. Some excellent scores from Oisin Horgan, Padraig O Sullivan and Sean Brosnan were the feature of this game and also superb goal keeping by Conn Marley. Joe Flaherty, Ciara McCarthy and Stephen Moore were solid in defense. Also outsanding were Mairead Kearney, Oliver Harte, John McCrohin, Michael Kirby, Lorcan Ryan, Ruari Dalton and Cian McCarthy. Many thanks to mentor David Moore. Ardfert travel to Ballyduff this Sunday evening in Round 3 of the County League throw in 7 pm. COUNTY LEAGUE DIV 2 - Ardfert played Skellig Rangers in Ardfert on Saturday night last. Despite a very poor start, down 7pts after fifteen minutes, Ardfert showed great determination to rally and secure a draw. Half time score was Ardfert 1.01 Skellig .10. The full time score was Ardfert 3.05 Skellig 1.11. Team: Nicholas O'Sullivan, Stephen Leen, Eamonn Corridon, Trevor Wallace, Finan Horgan, Eoin McCarthy, Michael Moloney, Jerry Wallace, John Dowling, Damien Wallace(.01), Mairtin Ferris(1g), David Griffin(.01), Stephen Wallace(1g), Darren Wallace(1.02-1f), Thomas Moloney. Sub: Shane Griffin(.01) FIXTURE - Round 6 this Saturday night at 7.30pm in Blennerville against St. Pats. JUNIOR LEAGUE GROUP 3 - Ardfert played St. Pats in Blennerville on Sunday evening last. This resulted in a win for Ardfert. Final score Ardfert 3.08 St Pats 1.10. This team is now joint top of the table with Moyvane. FIXTURE - Round 3 this Friday night at 7.30pm in Castleisland against Desmonds. MUNSTER FIXTURES: This Sunday in Fitzgerald Stadium, Killarney the Kerry Juniors play Tipperary at 12noon in the Munster semi final. This will be followed by the senior championship quarter final when Kerry face Tipperary at 2pm. KELLOGGS CUL CAMPS - The first ever football camp will take place in Ardfert from July 29th to the 2nd of August. The camps run Monday to Friday from 10am to 2.30pm and are for boys and girls aged between 6 and 13. Kerry senior footballers will visit and every child will be presented with a Kelloggs GAA Kit and bag. Registration can be done online at www.gaa.ie/Kelloggsculcamps or phone Kerry Co. Board 0667127782. One child is €55 second child (same family) is €45 and the 3rd is €40. RECYCLING: This facility is available inside the gate of the local sportsfield. All proceeds go to Ardfert GAA. NK U-11 CHAMPIONSHIP: U-11's had another good win over Tralee Parnell's last Friday evening and this weeks game was brought forward to Tuesday evening v Lixnaw. On Friday 31st they are away to Kilmoyley. PROVINCIAL SUPER TOUCH U-15 HURLING: St. Brendan's will play Bishopstown(Cork), Passage(Cork) and Dungarvan (Waterford) in a tournament on June 1st in host Club Bishopstown. LOTTO: The St. Brendan's Hurling Club / Ardfert G.A.A. lotto Jackpot this week was €8,700. The numbers drawn were 2, 11, 23, 28. There was no winner. The draw took place in McElligott's Bar. The lucky dip winners were: €75 Emmett McAviney, Gowran, Co. Kilkenny. €40 Maurice J. Harmon, Listrim. €25 Saoirse Lyons, Scartaglin. Lotto Jackpot is now €8,800. The next lotto draw was due to take place on Tuesday, 21 May. Tickets just €2 or 3 for €5. Thanks for supporting our local Lotto. ASDEE COUNTY LEAGUE: Asdee 0-5 Fossa 3-19. Fossa remain top of the Division 5 table after a facil Fossa on Saturday evening last. The home side played with a greater intensity from the opening whistle in a game that Asdee struggled to get to the pace of. Leading 2-10 to 0-1 at half time the home side dominated in almost every sector of the field with the goals coming in the 28th minute from Paudie Clifford and a 30 meter effort from wing back Derry O Sullivan who lobbed the keeper on the stroke of the short whistle. Asdees only reply was a close in free in the opening minutes from Eoin Tydings. In fairness Fossa could have been further out of sight but squandered 3 gilt edged goal opportunities during that opening 30 minutes. On resumption Fossa continued where they left off and a further goal after some poor defending saw Kevin McCarthy waltz his way along the end line to smash to the net after 4 minutes. What ever chance the visitors had of making a game of it was now well and truly ended as Fossa just toyed with the opposition adding some well taken points. Asdee did add a few points in the remaining 5 minutes from Paul O Carroll, Mike Breen, Kieran Kelly and John Doran but it only helped to take the bare look off the scoreboard. Fossa were really a class apart and were always in the driving seat against an Asdee side who seemed to be out of their debt. In an overworked Asdee defence Sean Keane, Eoin O Carroll and Kieran Kelly were best, John Doran and Padraig Ruddle had their moments at midfield while in attack they failed to function or make any impression on a tight marking home defence. Asdee; Conor Coughlan, Sean Keane, Martin Collins, Eoin O Carroll, Con Carmody, Noel Long, Kieran Kelly, 1pt,John Doran, 1pt, Padraig Ruddle, Michael Tydings, Darren Russell, Micheal Walsh, Mike Breen, 1pt, Eoin Kennedy, Eoin Tydings, 1pt. Subs; Paul O Carroll, 1pt for Eoin Tydings, Charles Dalton for Micheal Walsh, Brian Coughlan for Martin Collins, Barry O Donoghue for Con Carmody, inj. FIXTURES. Next County League Div. 5 game; Asdee home to Renard, Sunday May 25th, 2 30pm. BALLYDONOGHUE CLUB LOTTO: Last week's Club Lotto Draw took place at Tomaisin's. The numbers drawn were 5,7,21,23. There was no winner. The winners of the lucky dips were: Eita O Driscoll - Tullamore, Brendan Purcell - Guhard, John Lynch c/o Wyeths, Christy Enright - Dromlought, Eleanor Moran - Kiltean. The winners of the three free draws were; Kathleen O Donnell - Tullamore, Geraldine Quilter - Toor, Catherine Collins - Ballylongford. This week's draw, for a jackpot of 2,900 euro will take place in Tomaisin's on Friday night. RESULTS: Div 1. N.K. League Final: Ballydonoghue (4-15) St. Senans (0-6). St Senans started well and were proving quite a handful in the early stages but once we had weathered the early pressure and got to grips with the game there was never any real doubt to the final outcome. Ballydonoghue: John Scully, Conor Horgan, Jack O Connor, Joseph Lynch (0-1), Kieran O Connell, Micheál Foley (0-1), Dónal Doyle, Brian Ó Seanacháin, Jason Foley (1-0), Kieran Lynch (0-3), Daragh Sheehy (1-3), Kevin O Donnell (0-1), William Kissane, Jack Foley (2-1), Brian Mason (0-3) Subs: Michael Dee (0-1), Daniel Power, Stephen Mason, Liam Kissane, Jack Behan (0-1) Co.Senior League Div 5 Ballydonoghue (1-11) Valentia (1-13). We should have had this game well warped up before Valentia goaled 5mins into injury time with the last kick of the game to secure a 2pt victory. That looked most unlikely, 10 mins earlier when they trailed Ballydonoghue by 3pts. Team: Shane Thornton, Billy Foley, John Enright, Jack Gogarty, Darren Gogarty, Diarmuid Behan, Stephen Lonergan, Barry Shanahan, Martin O'Mahony, Darragh O'Shea, Jim Cremin, Dan Riordan, Thomas Kennelly, Padraig Lyons, Paul Kennelly. Co.Junior League Ballydonoghue (0-13) Beale (0-8). Our Juniors had a good win over Beale thanks in no small part to a fine performance from Jim Cremin and a great penalty save by goalkeeper Darren O'Connor after we had just gone 3pts ahead as we approached the final quarter. Co.U12 league: Ballydonoghue (4-8) Castlegregory (2-9). FIXTURES: Co League Div 5 Round 6 Ballydonoghue v Strand Road in Coolard on Sat May 25th at 7.30pm. Co. Junior League Round 3 Ballydonoghue B v St. Senans B in Mountcoal on Fri. May 24th at 7.30 pm. BALLYDUFF COISTE NA NÓG: Coiste Na nÓg Fundraising draw Lines €2 prizes include autographed Kilkenny and Kerry jerseys, Bus Eireann Travel voucher and meal vouchers. Table Quiz takes place at Lowes Bar on Friday May 31st. Funds raised will go towards equipment and kitting out our under 14 hurling panel for Féile Na nGael in Limerick. Under 12 Football League continues on Sunday evenings Under 11 Hurling League on Friday evenings. Under age Hurling Academy on Sunday mornings 10am to 11am Under Age Football Academy on Wednesday evenings 6pm to 7pm CAMOGIE NEWS: Causeway Camogie Club is holding an open day on this Sunday May 26th from 12 noon to 2.00pm, in the Causeway GAA pitch. There will be a bouncy castle and face painting, and treats for every one, so young and not so young come along and meet the trainers and have some fun. Hope to see you all there ;-) CARDS RESULTS: The results of the recent weekly "41" Card Drives at McHale's Stretford End Bar, Causeway are as follows; Monday May 6th - 1st – Vinnie O'Connell & Sonny O'Halloran; 2nd & 3rd Divided – Mike Moriarty & Mike Kennelly; Pat McSweeney & Pat Moriarty TABLE PRIZES: Noreen O'Connor & Kathleen Guerin; Dan McCarthy & Mary Godley Monday May 13th 1st & 2nd Divided – Kathleen Harty & Margaret Shanahan; Joe Higgins & Brendan O'Riordan 3rd – Kathleen Kissane & Eileen Dowling TABLE PRIZES: Kathy Neilan & Mickey Quilter Tony & Mary McCarthy. The "41" Card Drive continues on each Monday commencing at 10.00pm sharp. Entry is just €5 and all are welcome. BALLYHEIGUE GAA LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Saturday night's GAA Lotto: 1-9-15-23. Congratulations to Teresa Casey, Ballylongane, Ballyheigue who won the €3,300 Jackpot. GAA INTERMEDIATE: The Kilgarvan team failed to turn up on Wednesday evening to play the Co. League Division 2 game against Ballyheigue. The Football team received a walk over from Ballylongford. UNDER-11: The Ballyheigue Under-11 hurlers defeated Tralee Parnell's in the North Kerry League on Friday evening. Full time score Ballyheigue 8-2 and Tralee 2-2. Ballyheigue Panel: Dillan Casey, Aidan Reidy, David O'Mahony, Conor O'Sullivan, Nathan Guerin, Graham Slattery, Tomas Gaynor, Seamie O'Fuairain, Gordan Goggin, Jimmy O'Halloran, Daniel O'Loughlin, Colin Walsh, Eric Walsh. FIXTURES: Co. Senior Hurling Division 2 League: Ballyheigue 'B' v Crotta 'B' at Dromakee this Wednesday evening at 7.15. North Kerry Under-11 Championship: Ballyheigue v Abbeydorney at John Joe O'Sullivan Park Friday evening at 6.30. Co. Senior Hurling League: Ballyheigue v Ballyduff at John Joe O'Sullivan Park Tuesday evening at 7.30. PUC FADA: a Puc Fada Competition will be held in the Kerryhead region on Saturday 1st June. Each Club can send one Senior and one Under-16 player. Winners will be presented with Co. Championship Medal and will represent Kerry and Munster in the All Ireland Final in the Cooley Mountains, Co. Louth on August 3rd. BALLYLONGFORD SENIOR FOOTBALL LEAGUE: Ballylongford played Castlegregory in round 5 of the of the Credit Union County Football League in O'Rahilly Park Ballylongford on Saturday evening last the home team started much the better and were on top in the early stages in a fast open game of football ,Jeremiah Tyding's had a point from a free to open the scoring in the third minute while Ballylongford were on top they were'nt converting their chances to scores. Matt O Connor firstly came at the end of a good passing move but his shot for goal was well saved by Adam O Donnell in the Castlegregory goal Kieran Mulvihill then saw his free hit the upright and drift wide, while Eddie Mangan and Kieran Mulvihill had points for Balllylongford in the 11th and 12th minute it was Castlegregory who went ahead in the 21st minute when they worked the ball well to Colm O Mahony who hit the net to add to Keelan Dowling earlier point followed by a point from Kenneth Clifford. Ballylongford were rocked back by these quick scores but hit back with two quick points followed by a brilliant volley to the net from Joe McCarthy to leave it Ballylongford 1-5 to 1-3 ahead at half time. Ballylongford started well in the second half with two points in quick succession in the 3rd and 4th minute, then Castlegregory took over with the crucial score coming in the 8th minute when Alan Fitzgerald sent a penalty to the net. Castlegregory kept the scoreboard ticking over with points in the 12th 14th and 20th minute while Ballylongford had to wait until the 25th min for their next point from Jeremiah Tydings followed a minute later with a Brendan Bambury point .Colm O Connor finished the scoring with a point in the 31st for Castlegregory. Final Score Castlegregory 2-11 Ballylongford 1-9. Ballylongford Team: Paudie Moroney Steven Mulvihill Michael MCEllistrim Mossy Kenrick.Liam MC ELLigott. Eamon MC Elligott .Cathal Carroll.Derek Nolan Kenneth Sheehy Kieran Mulvihill 0.1. Brendan Bambury.0.1 Joe McCarthy.1.1 Jeremiah Tydings. Matt O Connor.0.1 0.3 Eddie Mangan 0.2 Padraig o Neill. The Ballylongford Senior Team will play Lispole in Round 6 of the Division 4 league at O' Rahilly Park, Ballylongford on this coming Saturday evening at 7.30pm. This is a vital game for Ballylongford and a victory here would ease the pressure further down the line in maintaining our Division 4 status. Lispole at present are in third position in the league table with 7pts after four games. Ballylongford however are in sixth position on 5pts on the table with five games played. So all is to play for here as the competition reaches the half way stages, the competition will take a six week break after this coming weekend with Round 7 being penciled in for the Weekend of June 30th BEALE Beale GAA / Community Centre Lotto Sunday 19th May, 2013 was held in 'McMunn's Bar'. The numbers drawn were 4, 12, 14 & 24, there was no winner of the €3,550 Jackpot. The lucky dip winners are €40 - Emily Lane, East End, c/o Mikey Joes Bar €30 - Cillian Courtney, main Street, c/o Courtney's Bar €20 - Sean Brosnan, Ballybunion, c/o Holly's Bar 5 Free tickets - Aoife Murphy, Sandhill Rd, c/o Courtney's Bar We would like to thanks everyone for their continued support Next draw will be held in 'The Bunker Bar ' on Sunday Night 26th May at 10pm and the Jackpot is €3,600 Beale Ladies GFC: Results - U12's vs Currow Final Score Beale 1-12 Currow 4-12 U16's were defeated by Fossa at home on Wednesday May 15th. Training Sessions U12's training session will take place on Wednesday 22nd May from 5:00-6:00pm in Stack Park Ballybunion U14's & U16's training session will take place on Thursday 23rd May from 7:30-8:30pm in Stack Park, Ballybunion Senior Training sessions will take place on Wednesday 22nd & Friday 24th May at 7:00pm in Stack Park, Ballybunion. Beale Seniors came up short against Keel in round 5 of County League on Sunday last. Played in sunny conditions in Ballybunion, our opponents were first off the mark with two unanswered points but we had edged ahead after fifteen minutes. However, Keel were the sharper side and went into the interval with a 4-pont advantage: Beale 0-5, Keel 0-9. Our opponents were first on the scoreboard again on the changeover and, eventhough we produced a stronger third quarter, we were 5 points adrift at the final whistle. Final score: Beale 0-10, Keel 0-15. Our sixth round game is against Moyvane on Saturday at 7.30pm in Moyvane. The semi-final of the North Kerry League, Division 1, against Brosna is scheduled for Friday of the Whit weekend. Beale Juniors were defeated by Tarbert in the semi-final of Division 4 of the North Kerry League on Tuesday evening in Coolard on a scoreline: Beale 1-10, Tarbert 2-9. We are scheduled to play Ballyheigue in Group 7 of the county League on Friday in Ballybunion at 7.30pm. PARISH HISTORY: Beale GAA Club is in the process of compiling a history of Gaelic football in the parish. This is a major project but one we feel will benefit all past, present and future members of the club, and indeed will be of interest to the whole parish of Ballybunion. Please contact Bríd Griffin, John Hennessy, Jimmy Buckley, Catherine Ellis, Paudie Mulvihill or Liam Browne. Looking forward to hearing from you. Golf Classic: Beale GAA host our annual Golf Classic in Ballybunion Golf Club on June Bank Holiday Monday. Teams of 4 welcome to enter by contacting John Hennessy @ 087 9237368. BROSNA GAA Lotto: The draw for the GAA Lotto jackpot of €14,000 took place on Monday 13th May in Flanagan's Bar. Numbers drawn were 11, 17, 20, 26. No Jackpot Winner. €50 went to Marie Collins Brosna and promoter's prize of €35 went to Terry Fay Brosna. Lucky dip winners of €20 each went to Dave Curtin Brosna, Kathleen Curtin Brosna, Erika Cronin Brosna and Gabe & Joan c/o Brosna PO. The next draw is on Monday 27th May in The Sportsfield Bar. County League: Brosna entertained Na Gaeil on Saturday night in the County League. In a scrappy and tight affair the home side ran out the victors on a score line of Brosna 0-09 Na Gaeil 0-07. Scores were hard to come by and the sides were level for large parts of the game but 2 excellent points from Mike Finnegan late in the 2nd half saw Brosna take the victory. Best for Brosna Shane Fitzmaurice and Peter Curtin Brosna Team: C Kiely, S Fitzmaurice, M Murphy, E Kiely, M McAuliffe, F McAuliffe, C Cahill, D Curtin (1 point), S Curtin, T Finnegan, M Finnegan (3 points), A Barry (1 point), S McAuliffe, E Prendiville, T McGoldrick (4 points). Subs P Curtin for C Cahill, G Nash for M Murphy CAMP GAA/SENIORS: We drew with John Mitchel's at the weekend, on a scoreline of 1-7 to 0-10. We started slowly, being two points down until Eamonn Lenihan got his hand to a long ball and found the net. Shane Foley and Gareth O Donnell, after a great run, picked off points to give us a two point half time lead. Scores in the second half were at a minimum, as we depended on Jason Hickson's placed kicks and some resolute defending from David Clifford and Ger Farrelly. With minutes remaining, Jason kicked what seemed to be the winning point, only for John Mitchel's to attack and win a free, resulting in the equalising score. Best for us were James Crean, Emmet Kennedy, David Clifford, Ger Farrelly and Genie Farrell. TEAM: Tommy Pierce, David Clifford, Eamonn Hickson, Ger Farrelly, Daniel O Connell, Keith Moynihan, Gareth O Donnell (0-1), Jason Hickson (0-3, 2f), Emmet Kennedy, Genie Farrell, James Crean (0-1), Gearoid O Shea, Jonathon Deane, Eamon Lenihan (1-0), Shane Foley (0-2). JUNIOR B: We will play Cordal in Annascaul this coming Friday at 7:30. CASTLEGREGORY Lotto- Draw took place in Ferriters bar on Tuesady ,Jackpot e8,200 No Jackpot winner, numbers drawn were 5,22, 24, 28. Thanks to all who support our lotto. Senior County league- Castle 2-11, Ballylongford 1-09, Castle made the long trip to Ballylongford on Saturday evening where they claimed their fourth win of the league campaign. The furture of Castle is bright with so many talented young players. Well done to team mentors , Seamus O Grady, Adrian O Connor and Sean Cronin for the work they have done with this team. A very worthy Captain Michael Scanlon accepted the shield from county board secretary Tagdh O Hallorhan. Team: Niall Moynihan, Brendan Walsh, Brian Dowling, David Sheehan, William Goodwin, Nathan Griffin, Vincent Hussey, Lee Courtney, Jimmy O Grady, Capt. Michael Scanlon, Mark Fitzerald, Mickey Lyne, Patrick O Donoghue, Craig Spillane, Darragh Butler, Cillian Hennessey, Lachlann O Leary, Owen O Toole, Cian O Grady. CAUSEWAY Killury N.S.: Killury N.S. were successful in their first Cumann na mBunscoil game against Ballincrossig N.S. In a hard fought encounter the Killury boys and girls won out by two points. GAA: Causeway vs Abbeydorney this Friday in Causeway at 7pm. U11's V Crotta in Kilflynn on Friday 24th May. Seniors are due to play Ardfert in Causeway on Tuesday 28th May. Intermediates will play Kenmare in Causeway on 29th May. Causeway camogie club: U14 quarter final results Causeway 5 - 6 to Murroe Boher 4 - 3, well done to all the girls, Semi Final to take place Tuesday 21st May in Adare against Monaleen. good luck!!!!! Don't forget Open day in the Gaa pitch Sunday 26th May from 12 noon to 2pm, come along and bring some friends and make some more!!! CLOUNMACON Lotto Results 16th May Jackpot: €3800 - No Winner Numbers: 4 12 28 30 Lucky Dips: €50 Con Lynch, Gortdrumagoun €30 Helen O'Brien, Scrahan, Duagh €30 Aoife, Chloe, Shauna & Lily Ann c/o Con Lynch €20 John Stackpoole, c/o Saddle Bar €20 M Gleeson, Beal, Asdee 4 Match 3 each receiving €20 Stefan Gleeson, Beal, Asdee. Martin Lyons, Oakley. Tom Murphy, Clounmacon. Sean Costello, Saddle Bar. North Kerry League SF: Clounmacon have made it to the final of NKL Div 3 after sealing victory in the Semi Final against Castleisland Desmonds on Tuesday night in Duagh on a scoreline of 1-9 to 1-6. Scorers for Clounmacon were Martin Enright(0-6), Liam Sullivan (0-1), Tom McCarthy (1-1) Jack Toomey (0-1). Clounmacon will now play Moyvane in the Final on Tuesday night 21st May in Tarbert. Co Junior League: Clounmacon played Duagh in their second round game on Friday night 17th in Duagh. Final Score Duagh 2-7 Clounmacon 0-9. Scores for Clounmacon Seamus Twomey (0-6) Tom Sheehy (0-1), Brian Carty (0-1) Timmy Mulvihill (0-1). Clounmacon have a bye in the next round. Their next match is on the 31st May at home to Kerins O'Rahillys. Fundraising Competition Clounmacon are running a Sports Prediction Competition to raise funds for the club. Entry Fee is €5. Prizes as follows 1st €275, 2nd €150, 3rd €75. Entries must be received by 1st June. Please contact Clounmacon Club members for further information. Entry Form can also be downloaded from www.clounmacon.kerry.gaa.ie CASTLEISLAND DESMONDS Desmonds 0-09 Glenbeigh/Glencar 0-06 Huge win for Castleisland Desmonds in their bid for promotion in this top of the table clash. Desmonds first half performance was excellent with scores from Barry O'Neill and magnificent individual performance from Steven Bartlett, whose free taking was the talking point of the game. Defending brilliantly also, Desmonds would close out the game in difficult conditions and a late Glenbeigh onslaught with points from Thomas Hickey, Eoin Murphy and Barry Lynch. Desmonds face Listry this weekend in another top of the table clash. A huge congratulations from everyone in the club to Kerry Senior Ladies Cait Lynch, Aoife Lyons and Lorraine Scanlon on their outstanding National League success against Galway last week. CROTTA CHRISTY RING CUP SEMI FINALS: The Kerry Senior hurlers are at home to Kildare on this Saturday 25 May. The throw in Austin Stack's Park, Tralee is at 3.00 p.m. Meath play Down, in the other semi final at Trim, also at 3.00 pm. Best of luck to Crotta players Shane Nolan and Mike Lynch, their Kerry team mates and their management. C'mon Kingdom. Kerry v Kildare, Tralee, 3pm CROTTA LOTTO RESULTS: The four numbers picked out of the drum for the Crotta hurling club's weekly lottery draw with a Jackpot of €3,100 by Independent Observer: Deirdre Herbert, Castletown, Kilflynn were: 5,10, 18 and 28 on Monday 13th May in Herbert's Bar, Kilflynn. There was No Jackpot winner. The Lucky dip prizes winner each receives €35: Patrick Moloney, Cappagh, Kilflynn, Pat Herbert, Castletown, Kilflynn and Mary Twomey, Garrynagore, Lixnaw. Tickets are available at 2 Euro each or 3 for 5 euro from Club tickets sellers or from Herbert's Bar & Shop, Kilflynn, Parker's Pub, Kilflynn, An Siopa, Kilflynn, Kilflynn Post Offices, Foleys Shop, Lixnaw J.J Walsh's Bar, Lixnaw, Quilter's Bar, Lixnaw and from The Half Way Bar, Glenoe, Listowel, you can also play on the Crotta lotto on line now, check out www.crottagaa.ie or www.locallotto.ie CROTTA COISTE NA NOG CLUB NEWS: North Kerry U-11 Championship 2nd round Kilmoyley 2-02 to Crotta 3-02, played in lerrig on Friday 17th May evening. Crotta are at home this Friday evening 25th May to Causeway at 6.30 p.m. PRAYER SERVICE: There will be a prayer service on Monday 27th May at 8.00 p.m. for Walter Parkinson, Tullig, Kilflynn (First anniversary) in the old graveyard, Kilflynn village. DENIS LYNCH MEMORIAL GOLF OUTING: A large number of local golfers from the locality turned out on Sat May 5th in Killorglin Golf Club for the Annual Denis Lynch Memorial outing. The turnout was a great tribute to Denis, and was an occasion for many of his friends to pay their annual trip to the golf course. We would like to thank Killorglin Golf Club for their hospitality. The Golf was followed by presentation of prizes in Parkers Bar. Our thanks to the Mike and Geraldine and their staff for their hospitality. The Denis Lynch Perpetual Trophy was presented by Frank Lynch and accepted on behalf of the winning team by Mike Leen. A special word of thanks, to all those who sponsored prizes. Results: 1st Mike Leen(21), Cyril Lynch (18), Plunkett McEllhatton(24), Eoin Lynch(24) 60 1/8; 2nd David Carney(18), Declan Falvey(22), Raymond Roche(25), Frank Lynch(24) 61 7/8 ; 3rd Brendan Keane(14), Mike O'Callaghan(18), P J Barry(24), Bobby Hunt(24) 62 1/2; Longest Drive Cyril Lynch and Nearest the Pin Dan Brassil. Crotta U14 Hurlers captured their first County Féile na nGael Title: Crotta U14 Hurlers were crowned County Féile na nGael U14 Champions for the very first time when they defeated Ballyduff in Hermitage Park Lixnaw on Bank Holiday Monday 6th May. It was a much needed boost for the Club following the disappointment of the Senior team withdrawing from the County Senior Championship. Full Time: Crotta 2-11 Ballyduff 0-02. DINGLE CO. LEAGUE: Dingle recorded their first win in the current county SF league when they beat SK side St. Michaels Foilmore. 1-11 to 1-9 in an entertaining game in R5 at Pairc an Asaigh Sunday last. Exchanges were even in the opening half, the visitors led 1-5 to 1-4 at the break. Again it was nip and tuck in the second half with little separating them. The home side was in front securing two league points. Dingle scorers were Mathew Flaherty 0-4; Ryan Begley 1-0; Mark Evans 0-2; Jack O'Sullivan, John Dion O'Connor, Paul Devane, Breandan Kelliher and Joe Sheehy 0-1 each. ROUND 6: Dingle travels to Connolly Park where they take on Stacks in R6 this Saturday, 5 p.m. COISTE NA NOG: U10 blitz this Wednesday 22nd, 6.30 p.m. U12 West Kerry league, Dingle V Annascaul this Thursday 23rd, 7 p.m. Challenge game, Fingal Ravens, Dublin V Dingle this Friday 24th, 7 p.m. DUAGH Duagh had a comprehensive win over Laune Rangers B in the county league at Killorglin last weekend. On Saturday night next at 7.30pm in Duagh Duagh will play Fossa in a vital county league game. Duagh and Fossa share top spot in their division both having won their 5 games so whatever team wins next weekend will take over leadership and will go a long way to promotion. You are asked to please support this team. The junior team had a good win over Clounmacon last week in the county league. Have you got your club membership? Membership is closing shortly. You must be a club member if you wish to purchase match tickets from the club. KERRY:: Best of luck to Anthony Maher and the Kerry team v Tipperary in the Munster championship on Sunday next in Killarney. Best of luck also to Padraig Shanahan Foildarrig and Duagh NS will will play on the Kerry Primary Game team also on Sunday next in Killarney. DRAW: The following were the prizewinners in the GAA 'Rag Meeting': 1st €150 to Maria Carmody Toor. 2nd €75 to Michael Garrihy c/o Jonathan Curran. 3rd €25 to Elaine Guiney Brosna. Thanks to all who sold and bought tickets and those who helped in any way. FINUGE SENIOR FOOTBALL: The county league campaign continued on its suuccessful path with an excellent win away to An Ghaeltacht in Round 5 on Saturday evening. Very wet and windy conditions prevailed at Gallurus but the die hard supporters who travelled from Finuge were rewarded with a fine team performance. Scores were hard to come by in the difficult wind but Finuge built up a 4 point lead by half team, 0-6 to 0-2. Gary Hogan from a free and a 45, James Flaherty, Fergus Fitzmaurice, Darren O'Sullivan and Maurice Corridan from a free were the scorers. Although playing against the elements in the second half Finuge extended their lead and were in front 0-8 to 0-3 after 50 minutes, thanks to fine scores by the outstanding Maurice Corridan. While An Ghaeltacht narrowed the margin towards the end the hardworking Finuge team held on for a well deserved win on a score of 0-8 to 0-6. They now top Division 2 with 9 points and are away to John Mitchels in Round 6 on Saturday next May 25th at 7.30 p.m. Team v An Ghaeltacht: Cillian Fitzmaurice; Paudie Galvin, Chris Allen, Kenny Walz; Michael Stackpoole, Declan McCarthy, Jack Corridan; Maurice Corridan (0-3, 0-2f), John McCarthy; Stephen Power, Raymond Galvin, Darren O' Sullivan (0-1); Gary Hogan (0-2, 0-1f, 0-1 45), Fergus Fitzmaurice (0-1), James Flaherty (0-1). Sub who played: Pat Corridan. JUNIOR FOOTBALL: The final of Division 4 of the North Kerry League has been fixed for Thursday next May 23rd in Coolard at 7.30 p.m. Finuge take on Tarbert in the decider. A good turn poiut of supporters would be appreciated by the panel and management. LISPOLE LOTTO: Ní raibh aon buaiteoir den Pota Óir €4,850. Uimhreacha: 1, 10, 18, and 23. Buaiteoirí €50 Féile Lios Póil; Fergal Ó Corcoráin, Binn Bán; Deborah Uí Dheargáin, Páirc an Fhiaidh; Aisling Murphy, C/o The Dingle Pub. Next week's jackpot is €5,000 and the draw will be held in the Brosnan's on next Wednesday May 22nd. RESULTS: Colm Ó Muirthile proved to be the ultimate difference between Lios Póil and St. Senan's as Lios Póil maintained their place on top of Division 4 after a hard earned win. Visitors St. Senan's began the game in a lightning fashion as they charged into a 1-04 to no score lead within the opening quarter. Some of the Scorers for St. Senan's being Eoin O'Connell with a goal and Sean O'Connell with three points. It was only after the first quarter that Lios Póil finally registered a score with a pointed free from team captain Deaglán Ó Súilleabháin. Following Ó Súilleabháin's point St. Senan's were not to score again for the rest of the half. During this time Lios Póil were guilty of many wides and wrong shot options. Lios Póil depended entirely on frees as they added two further points to their tally courtesy of Tomás Ó Caomháinaigh. This left the half time Score St. Senan's 1-04 Lios Póil 0-03 Referee Peter Lyons had only started the second half when Paudie Quille extended St. Senan's lead to five points. Homeside Lios Póil dug deep as they upped the ante outscoring St. Senan's 1-05 to 0-01. The goal coming from Colm Ó Muirthile, who contributed 1-01 of the Lios Póil's 1-05. The other four points coming from Deaglán Ó Súilleabháín and Adrian Ó Raoil. This left Lios Póil three points ahead, which they duly widened with two further points from Ó Muirthile and Ó Súilleabháin. St. Senan's responded with what proved to be their second point of the second and final score of the match through midfielder Sean O'Connell with a pointed free. Colm Ó Muirthile soon had the point cancelled out with one of his own from play which was added to by Colum Ó Gealbháin. With two minutes left up stepped Goal Scorer Colm Ó Muirthile to record the final score of the match to ensure a home win. FIXTURES: Lios Póil Senior team are away to Ballylongford in the next round of the county league on Saturday next May 25th at 7:30pm. The Lios Póil Junior team are at home to on Friday evening next, May 24th at 7:45pm. MOYVANE SENIOR CL RESULTS: Moyvane had their first win of the Division 4 County League away to Ballyduff on Saturday last on a final score of Moyvane 1-6, Ballyduff 0-8. Moyvane Scorers: Timmy Noonan 1-1, P.J Stack 0-2, Aidan Keane 0-1, Ian McCarthy 0-1 and William Madden 0-1. JUNIOR CL RESULTS: Moyvane continued their winning spree in Rd 2 of the Group 3 Junior County League with a win away to Listowel Emmets on Sunday last on a final score of Moyvane 0-16, Listowel Emmets 1-12. Moyvane Scorers: D.J Keane 0-6, Aidan Keane 0-3, John Jack Mulvihill 0-2, Ian McCarthy 0-2, James Kennelly 0-1, Niall Mulvihill 0-1 and Oliver Carmody 0-1. SENIOR CL: Moyvane are at home to Beale in Rd 6 of the County League on Saturday, May 25th at 7:30pm. JUNIOR CL: Moyvane are away to Ballymac in Rd 3 of the County League on Friday, May 24th. Check time of fixture on posters and Moyvane GAA Facebook page. CLUB LOTTO: There was no winner of this weeks Jackpot of €12,300. Numbers drawn were 16, 17, 19 and 24. Lucky Dips of €40.00 each: Joe Deegan, Ballylongford, Brendan O' Carroll c/o All Star Bar, Nicola Scanlon c/o Holly's, Noel Sheehan, Raheen and Owen & Niamh Stack, Knockanure. Next weeks Jackpot is €12,400 and the draw will be held in Speedy's Bar on Sunday, May 25th at 10.00pm. €100 LOTTO: Again this year Moyvane GAA are offering you the opportunity to buy the lotto for a yearly sum of €100.00, which gives you two free draws per year. For further details please contact any committee member. KILMOYLEY NIGHT AT DOGS - The work is nearly done and Tickets nearly sold. We are inviting everyone to come along to the Kingdom greyhound stadium this Saturday night to place a bet, enjoy a meal or just meet your friends. Fun for everyone, young and not so young. There is always a great night's entertainment at the Greyhound track and Saturday night will be no different. On the night there is gate prize valued at €500 which is very generously sponsored by Flaherty's Hardware Lerrig, Nominators prize value €200 and lots of spot prizes. Kilmoyley Hurling Club are looking forward to seeing you all there on the night. First race 7.50pm. KERRY HURLERS - Best of luck to the Kerry Hurling team who play Kildare in the semi-final of the Christy Ring Cup on this Saturday. Venue not decided at time of going to press. Best of luck to Tom Murnane, Daniel Collins, David Fitzell and selector PR. The club wish a speedy recovery to Sean Maunsell who is out injured at the moment from the Kerry Panel. HURLING RESULTS - Senior Division 2 Co League Kilmoyley 3-12 V Abbeydorney 1-8. FIXTURES - Senior Division 2 Co Lg Kilmoyley V Dr Crokes on this Wednesday 22nd at 7pm at Pairc Naomh Eirc, Kilmoyley. NORTH KERRY Intermediate championship preliminary round Kilmoyley V Lady's Walk on Friday 24th in Pairc Naomh Eirc. U11 - North Kerry championship Kilmoyley V Tralee Parnell's on Friday night 24th at Tralee venue. U14 - Kilmoyley U14 were defeated by Dr Croke's last week on a score of Kilmoyley 1-3 V Dr Croke's 5-11. The U14 are away to Kenmare/Kilgarvan this weekend, but date has not been finalised. U9 - Training for all the U9 boys and girls will go out doors from this Sunday. Training at 11am at sportsfield. Texts will only be sent out if training is called off for some reason. CAMOGIE- Congratulations to Saidbhe Horgan, Orla Young and Aoife Fitzgerald who were selected to play on the Munster Inter Provincial team V Lenister on Sunday last. Well done on the great win. KNOCKANURE Lotto Results 17h May Jackpo 8,500 Nos Drawn 4-15-27-31 No Winner Lucky Dips Maurice Sheehan Leens Hotel Abbeyfeale Mike Keane Coilagurteen Dan collins Knocknagoshel Tracy Moore Tralee Dan Broderick Abbeyfeale James & Maureen Connolly Trien kilmorna Bar Prize Kathy Finucane Next Weeks Jackpot 8,600 KNOCKNAGOSHEL Clothes Recycling Drive; A clothes collection will take place in mid June in aid of Knocknagoshel GAA club. We will be accepting bags each weekend at our underage training sessions and matches. Please donate all your clean unwanted clothes also bedlinen, towels, curtains, shoes, bags, belts and soft toys. Wearable clothes will be recycled and reused and other items will be recycled for items such as industrial wipes or soundproofing. Seniors; Our county league game against Kilgarvan was postponed due to a bereavement in Kilgarvan. The senior team are at home to Valentia on this Saturday evening at 7.30p.m. in Willie Walsh Park in a vital county league game. Support is greatly appreciated. We wish James Walsh and Kerry well in their opening championship game against Tipperary this weekend. Harvest Festival Gathering Knocknagoshel GAA club would like to extend an open invitation to all past players, mentors, officers and members of the club from home and abroad to come to our gathering in Knocknagoshel on Friday August 16th 2013. Kerry Rose Michelle Breen represented Knocknagoshel GAA in the Kerry Rose selection held in the Ballyroe Hotel on Friday night last. LISTOWEL EMMETS Listowel Emmets Monthly Draw: Listowel Emmets will hold their fifth monthly draw of the year on Wednesday night 29th May at 8.45pm in Frank Sheehy Park, tickets are €5 and are available from Con McCarthy. Results: 2013 Credit Union County Senior Football League Division 2 - Round 5 Listowel Emmets 2-13 Kenmare 0-06 2013 Credit Union County Junior Football League Group 3 - Round 2 Listowel Emmets 1-12 Moyvane 0-16 2013 Keane's SuperValu County Minor Football League Division 3A Final Listowel Emmets 1-07 Spa 2-08 Fixtures: 2013 Credit Union County Senior Football League Division 2 - Round 6 An Ghaeltacht V Listowel Emmets Date: Saturday 25th May Venue: Gallarus Time: 7.30 P.M. 2013 Credit Union County Junior Football League Group 3 - Round 3 Listowel Emmets V St. Pat's Blennerville Date: Friday 24th May Venue: Frank Sheehy Park - Listowel Time: 7.30 P.M. Listowel Emmets Ladies: As our Senior team continue their preparations for the upcoming North Kerry league final and county league final it was left to our younger members to keep us busy. Teams from every age group in Emmets Ladies participated in competitive matches. Our under 16 girls had a busy week playing two games. Showing fantastic commitment and with a full squad available the girls secured wins in both. On Monday the girls were away to Na Gael and then on Wednesday they played at home against Rathmore. Their next game will be with Southern Gaels. On Sunday the under 14's made the trip to Killarney to play Fossa and after putting up brave challenge Fossa proved too strong a match for the Emmets girls. The under 12's captained by Finola Keane also made the trip to Killarney where they played Kenmare. Their next match is at home this friday evening when they play Fossa. Finally our Saturday Morning Club continues every week in Frank Sheehy park from 10.30 am to 12.00 pm. The girls are currently participating in the John B. Keane League and this week will see our very youngest members the under 6's take part. Best of luck to Leah Henry and Saoirse Kennedy who will travel to Mullingar with the Kerry under 16's to take part in the inter county blitz. Listowel Emmets Ladies would like to express their gratitude and appreciation to all those who so generously contributed to our collection on Saturday in Listowel. Saturday Morning Club: The John B Keane League continues on Monday evenings at Frank Sheehy Park, Listowel Independents, Rural Rangers and The Boro have had good wins under their belt and the excitement and fun had in Frank Sheehy Park over the last two rounds has been second to none. On Monday next 27th Round 3 takes place where The Boro meet with Rural Rangers, Listowel Independents take on the Ashes and An Ghleann take on the Blackcock feathers, throw in for all three games is 6.45pm, see you all there! Training continues at Frank Sheehy Park on Saturday mornings from 10.30am - 12noon, for all U7s, 8s, 9s and 10s, while U6 training takes place at St. Michael's College Gym. U12s: Listowel Emmets meet with Beaufort A&B in the County League away on Sunday next 26th May at 7pm. U14s: Best of Luck to Emmets U14s who are in action with Feale Rangers on Wednesday night next in the quarter finals of the U14 District Championship where they meet with St. Brendan's in Na Gaeil at 7pm. Emmets Progressive 41 Card Drive: continues every Wednesday night at 9.00 P.M. in the Emmets Clubhouse, come along and enjoy the craic and don't forget to bring a friend. LIXNAW Hurling Club - The under 11 game against Causeway was postponed due to a bereavement . The under 14 team were defeated by a much stronger St. Brendans team on Friday evening . However , pride of place goes to the under 16 team who defeated Crotta in the county league "A" final in Abbeydorney on Thursday evening . Despite a sluggish start and being lead by 1-6 to 1-4 at half time , Lixnaw were convincing winners after a superb second half display . Goals by Jason Keane(3) and a second goal by Colin Sheehy to add to the one he scored in the first half, as well as some brilliant points from Davin Quilter, Shane Conway and John Buckley meant Lixnaw won by 5-14 to 1-7. A delighted John Buckley received the cup from Tadhg O' Halloran , while Davin Quilter was named Man of the Match . It was an excellent team performance and augurs well for the future . Congratulations and well done to Tommy Molyneaux, John Griffin (coach), Nick Mullins and Martin Galvin who guided the team to this success The senior "B" team played Dr. Crokes last week but the game was abandoned due to an injury to a Crokes player and the result is in doubt. Fixtures; The under 11 team are away to St. Brendans on Friday evening at 6.30 , while the under 14 team are away to Tralee Parnells on Saturday at 6pm. The senior"B" team are due to play Ballyheigue "B" on this Wednesday in LIxnaw at 7pm but this fixture may be played later in the week . The same team will play Kilmoyley "B" on Wednesday May 29 in Lixnaw . The senior team are scheduled to play Crotta in the county league on Tuesday May 28th in Lixnaw but this may depend on Kerry's progress in the Christy Ring Cup . Best of luck to John Griffin and Brendan Brosnan who will line out with Kerry when they play Kildare in the semi final of the Christy Ring Cup next Saturday at a venue and time which has not been made known yet . An important Bord na n-Óg meeting will take place on this Thursday at 8.30 to organise and plan the Family Fun Day on June 30th which is part of the Reunion/ Gathering weekend . Club Lotto; There was no winner of the jackpot of €6,600 last weekend , the numbers drawn were 3,10,19,23. Zack Honan, Dublin, Mike Brosnan, Listowel, Cathal McCArthy, Liscullane, Tom Barry,Clounmacon G.A.A. club won €25 each, while Caelan Dineen, Dysert and Francesca Joy won 5 free tickets . MOYVANE LADIES FOOTBALL: Moyvane u12 girls travelled to Killarney to play Dr. Crokes on Friday, May 17. It was a very exiting game with the Moyvane girls coming from 5 points down to draw with the local side. The final score was 3-3 to 2-6. The next game in the County League is against Abbeydorney this week at home . The u14s were away to Spa on Sunday and continue their good run with a another win and a fine display of football. .The u16s are playing Fossa in Fossa on Wednesday, May 22. SCARTAGLEN COUNTY LEAGUE: Scartaglen picked up two further very valuable County League points following their trip to Glenflesk on Sunday last where they defeated the local side 0-13 to 1-9 in Division 3, in a very tight and close contest. At half time Scart led 0-7 to 0-5. Early in the second half Glenflesk went ahead with a goal from Michael O Shea. The sides were level on a few occasions during this half but with Mike Coakley and Pa Rahilly in good scoring form Scart took control late in the game with the former kicking the equaliser and the latter scoring the winner to bag the points at stake. Scartaglen are at home To Firies on this Saturday evening May 25 in Round 6 of the Credit Union County League Division 3. LADIES FOOTBALL: Congratulations and well done to the Scartaglen Ladies Football team and their coach Hugh O Connor who won the Senior County League Division 2 Final when defeating Abbeydorney 2-11 to 1-5 in Milltown on Sunday afternoon last. This was a great victory for the local ladies who gain promotion to Division 1 for the first time in the clubs 24 year history. Scartaglen U14 ladies narrowly lost to Dr. Crokes in a high scoring game when the sides met at Scartaglen on Sunday evening last. The final score was Dr. Crokes 5-12 Scartaglen 5-9. GAA LOTTO DRAW: Scartaglen GAA Clubs GAA Lotto Draw took place in O Connors Bar on Sunday night May 12. The jackpot was E12,000 and was not won. Numbers drawn were: 11, 18, 21, 26. Consolation prize winners from the Lucky Dip draw were: €40 – Timothy Kerins, Knockrour; €30 – Brendan Cronin, Gneeveguilla; Josh Kerin, Gortgloss; €20 – Ruairi Murphy, Coolnageragh; Joan Roche, Cordal; Emily McGaley, Castleisland. The next draw is on Sunday June 2 in Flemings Bar. ST KIERANS St Kieran's club wishes to extend congratulations to Cian O'Connor who had a brilliant performance with the Kerry Minors, when they overcame Waterford last week. The club wishes the minors the best of luck when they meet Tipperary in the Munster final, on July 7. COUNTY LEAGUE: The district teams were in action last weekend. Congratulations to all teams. Desmonds beat Glenbeigh/Glencar. Ballymac were victorious over Dromid Pearse, while Scart saw off Glenflesk. Brosna overcame Na Gaeil and Currow drew with St Pats Blennerville. Unfortuanately, Cordal lost out to St Mary's. FUNDRAISING RACE NIGHT: St Kieran's GAA fundraising Video Race Night will take place in The Fountain Bar, Kingdom House in Castleisland on Friday June 14, 2013 at 8.30pm. Race and sponsorship cards are available from St Kieran's officers, players and team managements. Your support would be greatly appreciated, and if you would like to sponsor a Trainer, Owner or Jockey its €10. To sponsor a race it's €100. Advertisements in the race programme are priced as follows: Â¼ page €30, Â½ page €50 or a full page €100. TARBERT GAA LOTTO: There was no winner of last week's lotto draw. The numbers drawn were; 9, 20, 27 and 28. Bar Prize winner was Mary Buckley, Lucky Dip winners were; Fr. Philip O'Connor, Tom Buckley, Ger Buckley, Anne Sheehan, Tralee and Ita Walsh. Next week's draw will take place in Savage's Bar with a jackpot of €2,400 on Saturday night. Thanks to all those who continue to support the Lotto. Tarbert Juniors had a good win against Beale in the semi final of the North Kerry League on a scoreline of 2-9 to 1-10. Goals from Cieran Lanigan and Stephen O'Connor at vital stages of the game were crucial in this hard fought victory. Final is now fixed for this Thursday evening in Coolard at 7:30 pm. U-12 Tarbert were defeated by St Pat's Blennerville last Sunday evening on a scoreline of 4-16 to 3-2. Team Patrick Carmody, Adam O'Mahoney, Brion Cregan, Murty Moriarty, Padraig Carrig, Jamie O'Mahoney, Paddy O'Callaghan, Lorchan Leahy, Liam Henderson, Bobby Wren and Darragh O'Connor. The team travel next Sunday to Listry. County League: After leading for most of the game Tarbert lost narrowly to Gneeveguilla on a scoreline of 0-13 to 2-6. Two well taken goals by Donal Leahy left Tarbert ahead at half time by 2-3 to 0-5 and with ten minutes left Tarbert still led 2-6 to 0-8. An injury to John O'Connell and a spirited fight back by the home side gave them a one point win. Tarbert are at home next weekend to Currow. Kerryman 
