sport gaa
{ MARTIN BREHENY 
    April 03 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/bbreheny-beatb-simple-choice-between-confidence-and-weakness-26088901.html }
HISTORY was once defined as something which may never  have happened, is written by someone who wasn't there and read in schools by people who aren't interested. A touch cynical, perhaps, and certainly not a view of the past which GAA delegates should take into the Congress debate on the future use of Croke Park next Saturday. No, this is very definitely an occasion when something which did happen, was recorded by people who were there and applauded by those who saw the positive benefits, should be re-visited before the GAA make its most momentous decision of the new century. It will hardly have escaped those who believe in the uncanny influence of coincidence that it's exactly 30 years since the GAA unchained itself from the destructive influence of 'The Ban', a rule which seriously infringed constitutional rights. In these liberal days, it may well seem unthinkable that a top inter-county GAA player would be suspended for dancing at the wrong crossroads, but that was the fate which befell members up to 1971. Among them was celebrated Waterford hurler Tom Cheasty in 1963. The Ban prevented GAA members from playing or 'supporting' foreign games so when Tom was found to have attended a soccer dance in the Olympia, he was promptly suspended, thus missing out on Waterford's National League final success over New York. Ironically, Waterford haven't won the League since, but Cheasty has no medal to show for the last success, thanks to the spiteful intrusion of The Ban. The pernicious rule survived for a further eight years before being swept from the GAA statutes at the 1971 Congress in Belfast. Given its historical background and the emotions it engendered in previous debates, the culling was clean and clinical. The late Pádraig Puirséal, noted GAA journalist and historian, recorded it thus in his book, 'The GAA In Its Time'. "In less than four minutes, The Ban, which for nigh on 70 years had been such a much-gnawed bone of contention, had been quietly interred, without rancour or discord and without even the fuss of formal debate. The Ban had gone, not swept out triumphantly by any clique or faction, but discarded by the calmly considered decision of a united Association." Thirty years later, Gaelic Games are healthier and more vibrant than at any time in their history. Removing The Ban didn't weaken the GAA's foundations; nor did it result in hurling and football being overrun by soccer and rugby. On the contrary, the GAA's continued success is the basic reason why they have such an important decision to take on Saturday. Had Gaelic Games lost out to other sports the GAA would be gathering in urgent conclave to discuss their problems. Instead, they are to debate the best way to maximise the benefits of having almost completed one of the most modern stadia in Europe. The GAA now face a choice, not one which is caused by fear of failure, but by the confidence which prompted them to go it alone and re-develop Croke Park. Their deliberations must be made on that basis. It's also important that delegates realise exactly what they are deciding. They are not being asked to open up Croke Park next week so that U-7 soccer blitzes and veteran rugby competitions be held there. Roscommon's specific proposal is that, in certain circumstances, Central Council be given the power to authorise the use of Croke Park for sports other than Gaelic Games. Under current rule, only Congress has the entitlement to decide that. Effectively, it would be transferring power from Congress, which is made up of 330 delegates and usually meets once a year, to the 50-strong Central Council, which comes together quite regularly. The decision as to whether or not to make Croke Park available for other sports would then become a function of Central Council and would be made at another time. The GAA would still retain control over its own destiny, but would be sending out a clear signal to Government and others that, if the circumstances and price were right, business could be done. A 'no' vote next Saturday would play right into the Government's hands and will seriously weaken the GAA's position regarding an application for further grant aid. The Government, who can't be as confident as they sound about the requirement for an 80,000-seater stadium at Stadium Ireland, could easily argue that the GAA's refusal to even discuss opening Croke Park left them with no option but to flee to Abbotstown. But if they wake up next Sunday morning to headlines about a softening of the GAA's line on the use of Croke Park, they won't need opinion polls to tell them what the public think of the plan to spend up to £1 billion on a national stadium, a major part of which is unnecessary. It makes sense for the GAA to make Croke Park available to other sports, not least so as to strengthen their case for further grant aid. That apart, it's illogical to have a £175m asset idle for over six months of the year when it could be earning rental income. It will cost £2.5m annually to service a fully-finished Croke Park. That's just £500,000 less than the combined gate receipts for the All-Ireland hurling and football finals. That's a frightening statistic at a time when most clubs and County Boards are already struggling for money. Opening up Croke Park to other sports would free a lot of money for the GAA as a whole; leaving it closed will mean belt-tightening, not just in the short term, but for the next 20 years. Yes, and it will also hand soccer and rugby an advantage because the GAA will have less to spend on promoting and developing their games. The GAA have a decision to make between realistic business pragmatism and an extinct ideology. That's hardly a choice which should take long to make. As in 1971, when The Ban was removed swiftly and without division, the GAA should be equally quick to embrace exciting change, starting on Saturday with unanimous approval to take the first steps towards opening up Croke Park. A 'yes' vote will be a triumph for confidence and progress; a 'no' vote will be sign of weakness and insecurity. It's as simple as that. 
