sport gaa
{  
    December 17 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaa-must-face-toughest-enemy-the-fear-within-26257769.html }
The GAA's anti-doping code was introduced last October, but there are no guarantees that players will be tested during next year's championship. IT is, without doubt, an unlikely place to search for Gaelic games memorabilia, but in the United Kingdom Sports Council's doping control service report for the year 1994-'95, there lies a little piece of history. Call it unwanted, if you like, but historic it is, nonetheless. Half way down on page 29, under the heading 'findings', tucked in between Equestrian and Ice Hockey transgressors, lies the first - and only known - official record of a positive drugs test in Gaelic games. Cast your mind back to the long hot summer of 1995, and the outrage that erupted over the incident. Try to remember the shock waves which reverberated around the sport as the headlines proclaiming 'Drugs scandal rocks the GAA' sat on the news stands. You can't? That's understandable. Because there was none. The proscribed substance found in the (Ulster) footballer's urine was pseudoephedrine, a stimulant, commonly used as a decongestant in cough and cold remedies sold over the counter. In disciplinary terms, the incident was about as serious as a player sent off for tugging his opponents jersey. Needless to say the GAA didn't take any chances. The information was kept on a need to know basis, the player received a quiet warning and the matter died there and then. On one hand it was a worrying lesson for the GAA. An illustration of how easily an innocent player can fall foul of the rigid, yet sometimes confusing anti-doping laws, with potentially serious consequences for the party in question. For who knows what amount of embarrassment and harm could have been done had the information landed on the desk of a news hungry tabloid editor. On the other, it is an indictment of the association that it has since taken them over five years - and much prodding by the Irish Sports Council - to introduce an anti-doping code. For while there is no evidence that systematic doping is taking place in Gaelic games, the only way to ensure that a sport remains clean is to make it clear that cheating will neither be hidden nor tolerated. Had a more serious substance been uncovered in the meantime, then the GAA - without laws to deal with the issue - would have been powerless to act. Now that WOULD have been a scandal. The landscape changed significantly on October 14 last when the association's anti-doping code was approved at special congress. Yet even now, the association moves with unseemly caution. While the Irish Sports Council is adamant that drug testing should take place at Gaelic games next summer, the GAA are offering no guarantees - yet - that they will. "We will be meeting with the ISC early in the new year," says GAA Coaching and Games Development Manager, Pat Daly. "If the issues in question can be addressed, then I think we can progress. If not, then it's going to be very difficult. We want to maintain and ensure the integrity of the game, but we don't want to dig a hole for ourselves." The GAA want to discuss two matters. The first relates to education. "We're a 32 county body. Because of that, the Irish Sports Council will conduct testing north and south of the border. "Up to now, the level of back-up support being provided (to Ulster players, where testing took place through most of the 90s) by UK sport has been considerable. They have a dedicated training officer, a fact line set-up and a number of information leaflets available. "The people in the six counties are saying they assume that the same service will be provided by the Irish Sports Council. We're trying to establish if that's going to be the case." The other issue relates to a document apparently published by the European Union earlier this year. "It was brought to our attention by a member of the Ulster council," says Daly. "It basically states that sports need to be working towards one single independent anti-doping agency which would conduct the tests, implement the education program and impose the sanctions." Under the Irish Sports Council scheme matters of education and sanctions reside in the hands of the relevant governing bodies. It is a responsibility with which the GAA clearly are uncomfortable. "We've always said that we'd much prefer to see one (external) agency conduct all of these functions," says Daly. In theory, according to the ISC's anti-doping programme manager, Peter Smyth, such a course of action may be possible at some stage in the future if the GAA signed over its dope testing responsibilities to a body like the World Anti-doping Agency (WADA - the organisation formed in 1999 by the International Olympic Committee and international governments). "If they did that, however, they would be giving up responsibility for what I would regard as a very important aspect of ensuring that their own sport is fair," says Smyth. "Doping, like any other form of cheating, must be regarded as a serious matter by an organisation. If you give up your responsibilities in policing that, you would have to ask what other responsibilities do you give up on?" There is also an irony in the GAA's highlighting of the Northern Ireland anti-doping program as a role model. For the doping control officers who carried out the tests in the north sometimes found the GAA's general attitude to dope testing left a lot to be desired. "The Ulster Council itself was very obliging," says one northern anti-doping officer. "But we met with a lot of resistance (to testing) at games. Once at a game in Clones, we met with so much opposition (from players, officials and management) we had to get a high ranking officer of the association to intervene to ensure we could take tests. The attitude of the players and managers seemed to be 'how dare they do this to us'. "On another occasion at an Ulster final, one particular player was selected (selections were made by a random draw) to be tested. He stayed about for a while, then (before he had provided a sample), said he had to go out to his wife to tell her he'd be late home. So he went out, just got into his car and drove." The doping officer marked the incident in his official form as a refusal. In drug testing terms, a refusal to provide a sample is considered an attempt to cheat the controls and is viewed as serious an offence as a positive test. When the doping officer enquired later as to what action had be taken against the player, the answer was none. "The excuse they gave me was that the player was disappointed his team had lost the game, that he was retiring soon anyway and he didn't care. That was that. "For them to allow him away without even a reprimand was basically giving a licence for anyone to say to hell with that, they are not going to test me." Perhaps the greatest issue for the GAA regarding testing lies within. 
