sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    September 13 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/croke-park-hold-all-the-aces-in-stadium-debacle-26034542.html }
THE harsh sound of chickens squawking frantically home to roost could be heard all the way from Abbotstown to Achill  this week as the startled birds fled from the first wave of Stadium Wars. They had been nesting out for the past 18 months, enjoying the freedom of an expansive Government landscape which included extravagant plans for a National Stadium. They were protected from GAA snipers by the ?76 million grant promised by the Government for the re-development of Croke Park in April 2001, just 15 hours before Congress was due to discuss a proposal to ease the restrictions on the use of the stadium. Rule 42 (which governs the use of Croke Park) was all set to be amended by Congress, which would have driven a nasty big nail into the Bertie Bowl proposal. Not even the most naive of observers would believe that it was pure coincidence that the Government grant was announced on the eve of Congress. It was accompanied by a coded message that it wouldn't be in the GAA's best interests to do anything which might undermine the National Stadium. As it happened, Congress came within one vote of amending Rule 42 but, from a Government perspective, the right result had been achieved as it meant the Bertie Bowl was still needed. The GAA even agreed to provide games which would attract 200,000 fans per year to the new National Stadium. The GAA also played ball with Government on the bid for the Euro 2008 soccer championships, allowing Croke Park to be put forward as a possible venue, even if their rules didn't allow it. "We explained to Government that under our current rules Croke Park is not available but obviously things could change in the future. "They were happy with that. We have a good relationship with Government regarding Croke Park and are appreciative of the grant they have given us," said president, Seán McCague in an interview with the Irish Independent six weeks ago. Back then, Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern and the GAA were in a cosy relationship, each backing the other in support of their own ambitions. However, even as McCague spoke, the financial wheels of the Bertie Bowl were having their bolts loosened by his Government partners in the Progressive Democrats, who regarded the proposal as an ego-driven solo run by the Taoiseach. This week, the wheels tumbled off the wagon, sending the Bertie Bowl clattering to the ground, leaving the Euro 2008 bid parked rather dangerously on a double yellow line. The Government turned immediately to the GAA, looking for a tug to the garage. But instead of putting in a conciliatory call, they suggested rather icily via megaphone that Croke Park should be opened on a one-off basis for Euro 2008. No discussions, no skilful diplomacy, just a bald request to change a rule which has to be treated very sensitively. The GAA's response was equally blunt with McCague stating that he "couldn't understand how a bid for a major soccer tournament was made without the necessary facilities available to accommodate it." He also pointed out that the GAA considered the decision to include Croke Park in the 2008 bid as "flawed", before whacking the Government across the legs. "The UEFA bid proceeded when the current status of the exchequer finances should have been well known. It should not have been allowed continue to drift to this inevitable conclusion, i.e. the Government not proceeding with their National Stadium." Ball in, game on and watch out for late tackles. The Government were furious at the GAA's reaction, opting to ignore the fact that their request for the use of Croke Park was made in public rather than private. Still, the Government felt they had the wind behind them as they could always threaten to withdraw the remainder of the promised Croke Park grant unless the GAA clicked into line. If they thought that would frighten the GAA, they were seriously misguided. The GAA's financial gurus immediately examined the implications of losing the remainder of the grant which stands at around ?38 million. "It would be painful but not fatal," said a senior GAA source. "It would leave us paying off Croke Park for longer than we expected but we can manage it. If it's a choice between extending the mortgage on your house or being blackmailed into letting somebody else use it, you'd opt for the former and the GAA will do the same." Ironically, there is widespread support among GAA members for allowing Croke Park to be used by other sports in certain circumstances, a process which would have been accelerated if the Government used the "national interest" card in their request to the GAA. "Had they come to us and asked that, in the national sporting interest, we gave serious examination to allowing Croke Park be formally included in the Euro 2008 big, they might have been surprised at how favourably it would have been received. However, they opted for the "stick" approach and anybody who knows the GAA realises that we don't react well to bullying," said a GAA insider. While the GAA are in the strong position of having Croke Park almost completed, they know that they face a big PR battle to convince people that the responsibility for the latest shambles rests with Government. Inevitably, they will be accused of being narrow-minded in not declaring Croke Park open for Euro 2008 business when, in fact, they were the only organisation to have shown any vision. Former, GAA president, Peter Quinn, who is a key figure in the Croke Park re-development finances, said that back in the early 1990's when the Government first mooted a National Stadium the GAA were so enthusiastic that they offered to invest #20m in the development. "We were fully behind the Government plan. It never came to anything so we went ahead with our own re-building programme but it shows just how committed we were to future development, either through a National Stadium or on our own," he said. Up to last Tuesday, that was still the GAA's position, having committed themselves to playing enough major games in the National Stadium to bring in 200,000 fans per year. They now feel that while the FAI and the IRFU will get sympathy over the Government's U-turn, the GAA will be wrongly blamed for scuppering the Euro 2008 bid. This, despite the fact that they are the only organisation who actually built anything for themselves. They will also point out that over the last 50 years, they have invested the equivalent of ?2,600 million (in today's values) in grounds, stadiums and other facilities throughout the country with 95 per cent being generated by the GAA itself. Given that achievement, which is now topped by the rebuilding Croke Park into one of the finest stadiums in the world they are well placed to take on their critics. Besides, very few actually believe that Croke Park won't be open to other sports in a few years time. That will be achieved through diplomacy and gentle persuasion, rather than bullying, as the Government are about to find out. Meanwhile, UEFA inspectors are due to visit Croke Park on Monday where they will be shown around by Stadium Director, Peter McKenna and a member of the design team. The show, or rather the charade, goes on. 
