sport gaa
{  
    December 29 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-public-tackle-the-big-issues-25920057.html }
SINCE the arrival of the e-mail, I get many such dispatches every week. They vary from the brilliant to the ridiculous, but they are always welcome. From the numerous e-mails I received during 2003, I have picked out the following recurring  themes which seem to activate the minds of a great many GAA followers: SORT OUT THE FIXTURES MESS: In the current debate about Croke Park, one of the main arguments of those opposed to opening up the stadium is that it would be helping out soccer which is in competition with the GAA for players' loyalty. But the greatest factor in encouraging GAA players to play soccer is the total mess which is the GAA's so-called fixture list in the majority of counties. Nothing drives GAA players, particularly the younger ones, into the arms of soccer so much as the chaotic fixture-making of Gaelic games when compared to the orderly manner in which soccer can organise its fixtures. In the GAA, players can be left anything from six to 12 weeks at the peak of the summer season without a proper game because of county team commitments. In soccer, they play their games each week according to a pre-arranged calendar. Even after 120 years of running games, the GAA still cannot manage to do this properly in most counties. EXPLOITATION OF YOUNG PLAYERS: The GAA, as a national sports organisation, should be ashamed of how it permits the exploitation of teenage boys by club officials who often treat these youngsters as if they were hired hands. The best young players often are involved with many different teams and can sometimes play three or four games in the space of 10 days. This is doing untold damage to the most talented young players in the GAA and sports medicine people have horror stories to tell about the consequences of this abuse of players. If they do not get adequate rest time between games, they are vulnerable to injury. Worse still, they are often forced into playing games by unscrupulous team managers when they are partially injured. The GAA should take a hard line on these practises. A start would be to bar teenage players from playing in a grade above their own age-limit. ALL-TICKET GAMES: These are now almost the norm for championship games, but are causing great annoyance and even distress to many older followers. These people are often not in a position to get tickets because they are not attached to clubs even though they have followed their county all their lives. Many of the all-ticket games are unnecessary as the subsequent attendances show. But many older followers feel they will not get in without a ticket and therefore do not travel. They are often disgusted afterwards when they hear that there were thousands of vacant spaces at the particular match. The GAA needs to be more sympathetic to these people, whose hard-earned money kept the GAA going in the fifties and sixties before it became as affluent as it is now. CROKE PARK USAGE: The GAA needs to get this Croke Park/Rule 42 thing sorted out once and for all at next April's Congress. As of now, the whole question is becoming a millstone around the GAA's neck and how ironic it is that after building one of the best stadiums in the world, the GAA now finds that the publicity surrounding its usage is actually proving an embarrassment. AMATEUR HOW ARE YE: Commercialism is threatening to devour the GAA. At every turn, its decisions seem to be money-orientated. The amount of money allegedly spent by Armagh and Tyrone in winning the last two All-Irelands is said to have been in excess of £500,000 each. It takes over ?200,000 to maintain the most modest county football team for one year. Managers at club and county level are being paid more and more and some of the club managers do not possess even the most basic proper coaching techniques. Players may soon be charging for interviews. Sponsors are gradually tightening their grip on the decision-making process of the GAA in several counties although nobody in power in the GAA will admit this. And finally, players are already being offered money to change clubs, if not counties. The GAA needs to stand back, assess and address the problem before it overwhelms them. GIVE REFEREES A LICENCE TO KILL: Gaelic football is being degraded by negative and destructive tactics. What was once called dirty play is now so refined by video study and clever coaching that people are being codded. Referees are not getting the backing they need to stop these practises because of the old tradition in the GAA that too many sendings off are 'bad for the game'. As a result, players who commit destructive fouls are not being sent off as often as they should. We need a dozen or so top referees, preferably professionals, who will enforce the rules without fear or favour for a couple of years if the present rot is to be stopped. The 'Beautiful Game' for so many Irish people deserves that. THE LIGHT AND THE WAY: Floodlighting and many more evening or night games throughout the year is the way forward for the GAA. It can greatly alleviate fixtures problems at club and county level, could help in relieving the overuse problem with young players, facilitate club fixture-making and could cultivate a whole new audience for GAA games, particularly among younger people. If money that could be made from letting out Croke Park was spent on financing a floodlight ground in every county it would be a massive step forward for the GAA. BRING IN THE RUNNER: The litany of fines imposed on managers and team officials at GAA games for encroaching onto the pitch is bordering on the ridiculous. The GAA should simply bring in a 'runner' as in Australian Rules because it is important that players can be contacted efficiently by mentors and it is in everybody's interest. The 'runner' is the simplest solution and let the managers sit in the stand. POSTSCRIPT: Believe it or not, a man called Michael Phelan from Shannon, Co Clare travels by train to Dublin on all big match days in Croke Park and acts as a steward on Hill 16 and has been doing so for a lifetime. Back in 1944, Michael was in the army stationed in Kildare and, playing illegally and under an assumed name, won a Kildare junior championship medal with the Milltown club. He was transferred shortly after that and never got his medal. Another denizen of Hill 16, Paddy Dunne from Rathangan, met Michael and when he heard his story he put the wheels in motion in Milltown. Last Saturday week, December 20, the Wolfe Tones club in Shannon, of which Michael Phelan is a member, were holding a special party in their clubrooms to mark Michael's 80th birthday. Two members of the Milltown club, Chairman Mick Byrne and Larry Bourke, appeared out of the blue and presented Michael with his 1944 Kildare junior medal and a piece of Newbridge Cutlery for good measure. Tears of joy flowed down Michael's face and why not? A happy story to wrap up the GAA year! e-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
