sport gaa
{  
    November 27 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/shock-horror-official-actually-says-what-he-really-thinks--26357202.html }
THESE are strange times in the GAA. Some people at the top of the organisation are actually coming out in public and saying what they really think, instead of talking through the side of their mouths as has been the case at official GAA gatherings for as long as I can remember. No sports organisation in Ireland has had to endure as many platitudes from its own officials as the GAA has down the years. Of course, the director general Liam Mulvihill has always been direct and often blunt about the GAA's problems for years in his annual reports, but more often than not they are totally ignored by the day-trippers who attend Congress. On Saturday last, at the big National Coaching and Medical Conference in Dublin, we got good examples of this new approach to free speech. This event, while officially run by the GAA, is far removed from meetings of Congress, Central Council, Provincial Councils or County Boards. All these are attended by serial GAA politicians whose credibility is based on the length of time they have held office rather than their direct involvement at the coalface of the GAA. But at Saturday's conference, we had the men and women who actually create the great organisation that is the GAA, people who week after week look after teams from U10 to senior in all grades of football and hurling in every part of Ireland. It is these people who have to wrestle every week with the biggest problems, such as the fixtures chaos, standards of refereeing, keeping young people from deserting the GAA for other sports, teams devastated by injuries caused by overuse of young players in their teenage years, and many similar problems that will never be discussed at a Central Council meeting. So it was very fitting that the 700 or so delegates at this conference heard leading officials speaking in brutally frank terms about some of these problems and how they should be solved. Pauric Duffy, for example, is the new Player Welfare Officer who will shortly take up duty in Croke Park on a full-time basis. If we are to judge from his speech, his remit is going to be very broad indeed. The main thrust was that fixtures are one of the greatest problems in the GAA. And as one who has been preaching that same thing for the past 10 years, I'm glad that it now seems to be officially taken on board by the GAA. And, of course, nothing affects players' welfare more than fixtures. As Duffy put it, a tiny minority of elite county players are getting too many games, while the vast majority of non-county players are getting far too few - at least from May to September. At this time of year, when the weather has turned bad, they are swamped with games as County Boards stampede fixtures through so they can boast they finished all their competitions in the calendar year. But at what price to club players who have to play these weeks often in atrocious conditions? Duffy made suggestions as to how time could be freed up for club games in summertime, suggestions which will raise hackles among county team managers and their lapdogs, the county boards who employ them. Among his proposals are to have no weekend inter-county challenge games from April to August (unless after club games) with financial penalties for counties who break that rule, and to abolish the U21 competition and the Railway Cups. Presumably, that also includes U21 competitions at club level which is the greatest single disrupter of club fixtures throughout Ireland because players from the ages of 16 to 21 take part with a knock-on effect on fixtures in four or five different grades. He also wants provincial councils to play extra-time in all drawn games instead of replays. A Special Congress some weeks ago did decide to create a couple of four-week windows in summertime when there would be no inter-county games to facilitate club championship fixtures. Great in theory, but more than likely it will be hijacked by county team managers in some cases, thus frustrating the good intention contained in the idea. For the first time in the GAA, Pauric Duffy wants the GAA to actually make a rule to protect club fixtures. This would allow county managers the use of their county players for two weeks before a championship game and one week before a league game, with the players available to their clubs at all other times. Many counties already have bye-laws to cover this, but not all. These are all great ideas for restoring the primacy of the club in the GAA system, something GAA officials constantly crow about but then proceed to ignore in their own counties by leaving clubs anything up to 10 or 12 weeks without a championship game in the height of summer. The vast majority of ordinary GAA people would agree with Duffy's points, with the possible exception of the abolition of U21 competitions, but as no doubt he will be told, he is not an elected official and his proposals will have to go through the full rigour of the GAA's democratic system. That, as history shows, more often than not is the kiss of death for radical proposals such as Duffy's. I cannot see all the top officials at an annual congress agreeing to kill off U21 competitions, even though it is a totally unnecessary grade. Why not amalgamate minor and U21 into a new U19 grade which would take pressure of young men at a time when they are swamped in competitions such as third-level, club, county, etc? But when did the GAA last vote to drop any competition? The harsh truth, as Pauric Duffy undoubtedly knows, is that county managers and county board officers collude to give privilege to county panels at the expense of club teams. Personally, I feel the wheel is turning in relation to this matter and if the GAA really put the pressure on county boards, managers might actually have to co-operate and clubs might make a comeback as regards fixtures. Years ago, no official would dare say anything in public that went against the party line and when journalists like myself and others wrote anything critical, we were blacklistedIt is encouraging to see leading GAA officials proposing radical changes when they make speeches at events such as the Coaching Conference last Saturday. Okay, there is still a long road from what Pauric Duffy said to the coaching delegates to actually getting his sentiments put into the rulebook, but it is a significant start. Years ago, no GAA official would dare say anything in public that went against the party line and when journalists like myself and others wrote anything critical about the way the GAA ran its affairs, we were blacklisted by many GAA officers. That is why Duffy's comments on Saturday to hundreds of GAA people who are at the very heart of GAA operations is so important. GAA activists like these are usually the forgotten people of the organisation, but what they heard from Pauric Duffy might make them believe that somebody up there really does like them! 
