sport gaa
{ SPECIAL REPORT by MARTIN BREHENY 
    October 20 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaa-soul-searchers-seek-public-advice-26107309.html }
THE GAA are undertaking the most critical self-analysis for  30 years, which will lead to some major changes. Over 500 detailed questionnaires have been circulated to interested parties, seeking their opinion on how the GAA should change over the years to come. All aspects are being scrutinised, ranging from the use of Croke Park to Rule 21, to the battle against professionalism in a forensically detailed review of the Association's entire operation. Former President Peter Quinn is heading the high-powered Strategic Review Committee, which has been given the important job of spring cleaning every room in the GAA house. It is the most thorough examination exercise by the GAA since the McNamee Commission report was issued 30 years ago. The Strategic Review Committee (SRC) was set up by Sean McCague, when he took over as GAA President last April, and its members are drawn from both inside and outside the GAA. They have already begun their work but the entire project is so extensive that their final report won't be issued until next October. The SRC members are: Peter Quinn, former GAA President (chairman); Joe McDonagh, former GAA President; Paddy Wright, chairman of the RTE Authority; Martin Rafferty, businessman; Pat O'Neill, Glanbia; Sean Donnelly, financial consultant; Eithne Fitzgerald, former Minister of State; Gerry Cloherty, Managing Director, Connacht Tribune; Nicky Brennan, Leinster Council vice-chairman; Mark Conway, former Tyrone County chairman; John Prenty, Connacht Secretary; Michael Delaney, Leinster Secretary; Donie Nealon, Munster Secretary, and Danny Murphy, Ulster secretary. The questionnaires, part of which we reproduce today, have already been circulated and the SRC will study the replies carefully in phase one of their work. They will then make recommendations, based on the survey, which will help chart the GAA's path for the next 20 years. Sean McCague felt that it was vital to put together a comprehensive plan at the start of the new Millennium. He told Congress in April that many agreed policies were not being implemented, which raised crucial questions about the effectiveness of the administrative structures. ``These structures have evolved over the lifetime of the organisation and particularly from the work of the McNa mee Commission some 30 years ago but, over the past ten years, they have remained largely unchanged,'' said McCague. ``It has become apparent that our organisation is attempting to cope with issues and administrative volumes that were not envisaged as part of their role. As a result, even in instances where there has been a willingness to implement change, it simply has not happened on too frequent a basis,'' he said. He established the SRC to ``review the role and function of the GAA, review and report on existing systems and recommend a structure, designed to optimise the efficiency and effectiveness of the GAA to meet the challenges and opportunities.'' The SRC review questionnaire, which extends to 33 pages, deals with every aspect of GAA life. It seeks opinions on whether or not players, coaches, managers, referees and other officials should be paid. It asks for views on Rule 21, the use of Croke Park and other grounds, and also raises the question of whether county structures should remain as the basis for the main competitions. The reality of professionalism creeping in is something that the McNamee Commission didn't have to deal with 30 years ago and underlines the need for a detailed look at the modern GAA. Another modern dilemma is the question of whether or not a redeveloped Croke Park should be rented to other organisa tions, so that additional resources could be freed up by the GAA for other uses. The fact that Rule 21 (the ban on British Army and RUC personnel joining the GAA) in on the SRC's consideration file suggests that there is now no possibility of it being removed before 2002 at the earliest. Any attempt to have it discussed at Congress next year will almost certainly meet with an official response that no decision should be taken until after the SRC report back. This will not please those members who believe that the GAA are slow-pedalling on Rule 21, after deciding, in principle, to remove it at a Special Congress in May 1998. The response to the SRC's query on the use of GAA grounds will be keenly awaited. They have asked for views on the possibility of sub-letting grounds to other sporting bodies and while there is no specific reference to Croke Park, it's clearly at the top of the agenda. IF a majority of the 500 survey respondents suggest that renting out GAA grounds to other organisations, in return for hefty fee income, is a good idea, then the SRC are likely to put it forward as a policy proposal. That would be the first step in what many believe is the logical way forward with a redeveloped Croke Park. When completed, it will have an 80,000 capacity but will not be required for GAA purposes from mid-October to mid-March. The stadium will cost around £170,000 per month to maintain, so it would make perfect economic sense for the GAA to rent it out to the IRFU for rugby internationals. The SRC survey also raises the question of whether or not the GAA should be free to sell TV rights to the highest bidder. This is becoming a sore point with the GAA who believe that Gaelic Games will be included in the Government's list of `protected' events, which must remain on terrestrial TV. The GAA feel that this will put them in a disadvantaged position, vis a vis other sports, who can sell their glamour events to the highest bidder. While it will take a year for the SRC to complete its findings, there can be no doubt that are determined to produce a thorough set of proposals, which will then go before the general GAA body for consideration. 
