sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee - Monday Focus 
    April 07 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/doors-closing-as-opportunity-knocks-for-gaa-26050801.html }
HERE we go again. Once more it seems the GAA is going to get itself tied up  in knots over its role in Irish sport vis-a-vis soccer and rugby. This has been going on now for the best part of 100 years from the time the GAA first introduced the Ban on what they called 'foreign games'. Over the ensuing decades up to 1971, the GAA at all levels used the Ban rule to victimise and humiliate individuals by suspending them for playing or attending soccer or rugby. They would have done the same for people involved in cricket but that game never really took off in parishes like Larry McCann's Knocknavanna. Young people under the age of 30 who read the above paragraphs will possibly turn to their father and ask: 'What was the ban Dad? Did it mean the GAA actually suspended its own members for being involved with rugby or soccer?'. And the father will probably sigh and say: 'I'm afraid they did, son. And they even set up secret vigilante committees in most counties to attend soccer and rugby games and report on GAA members they saw there so that they could be suspended'. We will leave the father at that point as he struggles to equate the GAA of those times with the civilised and (fairly) progressive organisation we have today. We can, however, go on to wonder why it is that at next weekend's Annual Congress, in the 118th year of the GAA, the agenda will be dominated once again by soccer and rugby. This Congress will have to decide whether the organisation is to make Croke Park available for renting out for soccer or rugby games if such a request is ever made by these national sporting bodies, something which has not happened to date. That seems a straightforward enough business decision to make. But in the GAA no major decision is ever straightforward. That's because the GAA is made up of a whole series of independent franchises who, in theory, all owe their allegiance to the central body in Croke Park but in reality have their own agendas and often could not care less about Croke Park or its rulings or wishes. A casual observer dropping in from Mars to this weekend's Congress might think at first glance that this is a wonderfully united 32-county organisation with a simple philosophy of promoting the native Irish games of football, hurling, camogie and handball among others. The observer would say that this is an admirable objective in the face of the growing force of internationalism, that Ireland should retain sports which are indigenous to itself. But of course the GAA is anything but a simple operation. Within it there are numerous vested interests who do their own thing. The four provincial councils, for example, some of whom often have a different agenda to Croke Park. There are some County Boards who behave as if they were independent republics and couldn't care less what Croke Park is doing. And there is a small band of officers, past and present, who believe that THEY are the guardians of the GAA's soul and not Central Council or Presidents or Liam Mulvihill. These people have been in power so long in their own counties that they genuinely believe they own the GAA and therefore no major change can be made by the organisation without their approval. These people are opposed in principle to ALL change. Next weekend over 300 GAA officials will probably vote on the Croke Park issue. Unlike most other controversial matters such as the recent affray over the RUC/British Army ban, which were rooted in nationalism of a kind, this decision is essentially an economic one or at least it should be. The GAA will soon have one of the best stadiums in the world, capable of holding up to 80,000 people. The maintenance of this stadium is expected to cost upwards of Euro2m annually. The GAA will only fill the place twice a year. For six months each year the stadium will be idle because the GAA will have no games to play there. The obvious logic therefore, if you have a Euro200,000,000 (yes, all those noughts are correct) stadium which is going to be idle half the year and only filled on two occasions, is to go to the market-place to get major events of a cultural, musical or sporting nature to bring in at least the revenue necessary for annual maintainence and preferably a lot more. In this country there are a handful of events in soccer and rugby which would draw crowds of 50,000 or more. A lot of the plain people of the GAA believe it is eminently sensible therefore to try to get those big soccer and rugby games played in their fine stadium. These plain people see it makes economic sense in the first instance and secondly they look forward with a great sense of pride to cheering Ireland on in those sports in the stadium which THEY THEMSELVES built. Because let it never be forgotten that Croke Park was rebuilt primarily by GAA members and would have been completed, in time, even if not one old shilling came from the Government. But what the plain people of the GAA want is not necessarily what they will get. That's GAA democracy for you! Instead they will get all kinds of cock-eyed excuses as to why Croke Park should be kept for GAA games only such as: Croke Park will be used enough with GAA games and the pitch will not be able to take extra soccer and rugby games. This is nonsense because the new pitch now being laid should be world class and therefore capable of being played upon every week of the year as with the best soccer pitches in the world. If Croke Park is opened to soccer and rugby then soon all GAA grounds in Ireland will be the same. All the GAA has to do to prevent this is to bring in an exclusive rule for Croke Park and enshrine the power regarding the use of ALL GAA pitches to the Central Council. The Government is simply using the GAA at the moment to boost the chances of Ireland co-hosting Euro 2008. Ireland will not be hosting that event so this is a non-runner. The GAA should not be allowing other sports bodies to interfere in its affairs like this. No other sports body IS doing that. There is no pressure from soccer or rugby to play in Croke Park. In fact, economic necessity will dictate that it is the GAA that may NEED these sports to be played in Croke Park to make it viable. Soccer should not be allowed in Croke Park unless there is a 32-county national team. Give us all a break lads! There will be a fudge of GAA proportions at the Annual Congress regarding Croke Park and that is some fudge ! Common sense will be abandoned and even more sadly the wishes of the majority of plain GAA people up and down the country will be trampled upon once again. I have always said that the GAA is a great organisation to be as strong as it is despite some of the people who hold power in it. The GAA, if it plays its political cards right, now has the opportunity to own and control the National Stadium for all major Irish sporting events. Only small-minded individuals within the GAA can prevent that happening. email: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
