sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    March 05 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/bmonday-focusb-overused-young-players-get-raw-deal-from-gaa-26092264.html }
IT'S an ill wind that blows no good, they say, and that even applies to the current impasse in sporting activity caused by the foot-and-mouth crisis.</P No doubt it will be hard for the majority of sports people be they participants or spectators to appreciate that. But for a select section of Gaelic footballers and hurlers it has a special meaning. These are the young, talented players in both codes who are aged from 18 to 21. In normal GAA fixture-making these talented young players are the most abused in the whole organisation at this particular time of year and it is an abuse for which the GAA pays a very high, if often hidden, price. Simply put, the various bodies who make fixtures combine around this time every year to force players in this age-group to play an outrageous number of games in a short space of time simply because one fixture-making body in the GAA rarely knows, or wants to know, what another is doing. As a result, we get a conflux of fixtures in February and March each year which places the 18 to 21-year-olds in an intolerable position. I will use one such player as an example, but there are hundreds of others like him around the country. Paul Barden is 20 years of age and is one of the most talented forwards of his age-group in the country. He plays for the Longford senior and U-21 teams and the Galway third-level college GMIT, as well as his home club Clonguish. In a two-week spell recently, Paul played an Allianz League game for Longford against Down in Newry on the Sunday, a Sigerson Cup game against the former UCG in Galway on the Wednesday, a Leinster U-21 game against Dublin in Swords four days later and a League game against Tipperary in Clonmel last Sunday. That was four major games and about 600 miles of travel in the space of 14 days. Had his college team not lost their opening Sigerson Cup game, Paul would have been expected to be available for possibly three more games in that competition this weekend and then play a vital League game next Sunday against Monaghan. In addition, the Longford all-county leagues are starting about now and Paul would be expected to star for Clonguish. Apart from all these games, he would also be expected to train with Longford seniors, Longford U-21s and GMIT, as well as Clonguish all this at a time of year when the weather is usually at its worst and when students are coming under heavy pressure regarding examinations. So, for players such as Paul Barden, the break in GAA activity caused by the FMD crisis will surely be welcome. Barden's case is no different from hundreds of others in his age-group all over the country. For some strange reason, the U-21 provincial championships are now being run off just at the very time when U-21 players have multiple other GAA engagements instead of leaving them over until at least the third-level competitions are played off in a month or two. The pressure on these players comes from several sources. Firstly, it comes from the resistance of their own bodies. There is only so much training, travelling, playing and studying any person can do and these talented young GAA players are over-doing it. It is well documented in medical literature that over-doing things is a major problem for sports people and nobody over-uses their bodies so much as good 20-year-old GAA players. The GAA has a very poor record of listening to the many medical doctors who are also GAA players. If they listened more to what these men have been saying then they might, as an organisation, take a more enlightened approach to the overuse of young footballers and hurlers. Sadly, however, people like Dr Pat O'Neill, Dr Gerry McEntee, Dr Ray Niland and several others like them are looked upon by GAA officials as merely former players instead of medical experts. It's a different story, of course, when some team wants an injured player patched up sufficiently to play in the next 'vital' game and the medics are asked to work miracles so that yet another injured player can be rushed back into action too soon. At club level, the overuse of players in the GAA is even more outrageous, particularly for those who call themselves 'dual players'. A talented 17 or 18-year-old player could find himself playing for the club minor, U-21 and senior teams in both hurling and football, as well as with a college or third-level team. Throw in all the training that goes with that, the insane demands of many club team managers, the risk of injury and the pressure to play even when injured and it is obvious why so many players are getting burned out before they reach the age of 20. It is a perennial mystery to many GAA people why so many young men abandon football and hurling between 17 and 21. It is, however, perfectly plain to anyone who stands back and studies the way these players are abused by GAA mentors at both club and county level. There are too many grades in the GAA and having such high-profile grades as minor and U-21 is clearly the biggest flaw in the GAA system. The obvious solution here is to amalgamate minor and U-21 in an U-19 competition. No player over the age of 19 needs the protection of an age-grouping nowadays as he is well able to play senior. At a time when the GAA is pouring vast resources of money and manpower into coaching of teenagers, it is counter-productive to be abusing 18 to 21-year-olds by having them involved with too many teams at the same time. Many of them leave the game in disgust and that is surely false economics from the GAA's point of view. The soccer equivalent is the exodus of young boys to British clubs, but the haemorrhage of young talent from the GAA is far greater than in soccer. If the U-21 scene is to continue it should certainly be played in the months of October and November, when at least there would not be the same number of teams and mentors dragging out of the players as at this time of year. There is a very strong belief among the vast majority of players of all ages that I have had dealings with over the years that GAA officials as a body don't care a damn about players or their welfare but rather regard them simply as commodities who give legitimacy to the power these same officials hold. That is a harsh judgment, overall, because there are many excellent, considerate GAA officials with vision and understanding of players' needs. Sadly, however, the abuse of young players at this time of the year in particular undermines the best efforts of those caring officials. So, while the foot-and-mouth crisis is undoubtedly a monumental problem for all Irish people, I would not be surprised if young talented players aged 18 to 21 are secretly happy to get a break from football or hurling. email: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
