sport gaa
{ MARTIN BREHENY 
    March 15 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/gaa-move-to-open-croke-park-to-soccer-26093371.html }
A CONCERTED effort to open Croke Park's doors to soccer and rugby will be made next month. If successful, it would enable the GAA to enter into discussions with the Government for the use of Croke Park as a National Stadium. That would apply the pressure on the Government who are already coming under public scrutiny for their decision to proceed with the expensive Abbotstown project at a time when the GAA are more than half way towards completing the Croke Park re-development. Roscommon, Longford and Laois will all propose to the GAA Congress on April 7 that the restrictions on the use of GAA property be eased. Under current rules, GAA property cannot be used by sports which are deemed to be in conflict "with the aims and objectives of the Association." The three counties want that rule amended to allow the GAA's Central Council to decide what can be played on its property. The Roscommon motion is very specific in its wording: "Central Council shall have the power to authorise the use of Croke Park in certain circumstances for field games, other that those controlled by the Association." That translates into a clear call to the GAA to do a deal to allow Croke Park be used for major sports such as soccer and rugby. Neither GAA President Sean McCague nor Director-General Liam Mulvihill would be drawn on the on-going debate on the use of Croke Park at yesterday's launch of the Association's annual report. Their responses to queries were based on the assumption that the National Stadium was going ahead, but clearly a change in GAA policy next month could change Government thinking. It was confirmed that the GAA would shortly approach the Government for a major financial injection towards the re-development of Croke Park. While the GAA are refusing to quantify how much they will be looking for, they will tell the Government that if the new National Stadium goes ahead, it will place the GAA at a serious disadvantage vis-a-vis soccer and rugby, who are to have a new home built for free. Three weeks ago, informed sources told the Irish Independent that the GAA would be looking for up to £40 million in additional grants but, on the basis of last week's deal between the Government and the FAI, that figure is likely to be substantially higher. Sean McCague said that other than what he had read in the newspapers, he had no idea what the FAI had been promised by the Government for dropping the Eircom Park proposal and becoming an anchor tenant with the IRFU at Abbotstown. "Whatever they got, good luck to them. You will find no begrudgery on our part. We are proceeding with our own agenda and that's all that concerns us," said McCague. However, Liam Mulvihill outlined the GAA's fears that other sports could have an unfair advantage as tenants of the National Stadium. "If a National Stadium is built, it should not be given an unfair advantage over us in terms of state funding of its running/operating costs or of its programme for capital development," he said. "It would be ironic if the GAA were penalised for having the foresight and initiative to develop facilities of its own at a time when no one else in the country was prepared to take such a step into the future. "It is interesting to look back now on the outcry from people when the Government pledged its £20 million Lottery grant to the Association for Phase 2 and Phase 3 of Croke Park. In terms of the money being quoted for the Sports Campus and Stadium Ireland project, any reasonable person will agree that the modest investment in Croke Park has been a very worthwhile initiative on the part of the Government. "Indeed, the Exchequer has been a net beneficiary because of the GAA investment in Croke Park," writes Mulvihill in his annual report. Mulvihill estimates that if the GAA were beginning the re-development of Croke Park now, the cost would be at least £250 million, compared with the latest completion projections of £174 million. And he confirmed that the GAA would try to convince the planning authorities to allow Hill 16 continue as a terrace. An Bord Pleanála ruled two years ago that Hill 16 would have to become a seated area, but the GAA are hoping that there may be a change of heart on the matter. Mulvihill writes: "If it is acceptable to the planning authorities, we still have hopes to retain standing at this end (Hill 16-Nally Stand) which gives the stadium a unique atmosphere and which allows us to continue to give cheap accommodation to young people who prefer the freedom of movement that a well designed, uncrowded terrace gives us. "It is significant that the re-introduction of terracing is now being considered for English soccer grounds, while terracing is still commonplace in many European stadia." If the GAA are allowed to retain the Hill 16 end as a terrace, it will increase the capacity of Croke Park to 83,000 when eventually completed. If the Hill becomes a seated area, the capacity will be 78,000. In the shorter term, the total capacity for this year will be around 70,000, which is 6,000 up on last season. However, around half of those will be on the premium tier which means that around 3,000 extra tickets will be available for ordinary fans this year. 
