sport gaa
{  
    April 13 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/gaa-has-become-dangerously-complacent-26265464.html }
With the Association still on a lap of honour for Croke Park, Martin Breheny talks to distinguished former president Peter Quinn, who fears there is a lack of vision for the future THE GAA has become dangerously complacent, is over-staffed, is failing to plan properly for the many challenges it faces and is under serious risk over the next 20 years unless there's a radical change of attitude at all levels. Furthermore, the organisation is expending too much energy congratulating itself on the redevelopment of Croke Park while not facing up to the massive problem within miles of the stadium, where the GAA has a penetration level of less than three per cent in some large, sprawling Dublin housing estates. That such a withering assessment has come, not from an enemy of the Association, but from Peter Quinn, one of its most distinguished former presidents, will stun the GAA community and, in particular, the policy-makers who have gathered in Kilkenny for this weekend's annual Congress. He will not be attending Congress, which he describes as a "decision-making body for matters that should be dealt with at lower level", but his comments are certain to resonate around Hotel Kilkenny today. Quinn, who was GAA president from 1991 to 1994 and who played a major role in the planning and supervision of the Croke Park redevelopment, is a highly successful businessman who currently sits on the board of 12 companies, including the massive Quinn Group, owned by his brother Sean. Peter was recently appointed chairman of TG4. His business acumen makes his comments on what he perceives as the GAA's lack of vision very interesting, especially as he chaired the Strategic Review Committee (SRC) which reported in early 2002. "That's over five years ago. We should have a new strategy for the next five years by now but where is it? We're sitting looking and admiring what we did in Croke Park, instead of moving onto the next challenges. There are plenty of them too, mainly in the area of competition, but we're not addressing them. If you're in business and you don't address the challenge of your competitors, you don't survive and it will be the same in sport into the future," he contends. "Nobody believes the GAA won't survive, but I'd never rule it out as a possibility in any organisation. Get it wrong long enough and you're in serious trouble. If we started to get it wrong now, we would be in serious trouble in 20 years. We could have become a miniscule organisation, incapable of making the impact on Irish society we currently do. "The Roman Empire ruled the developed world for nearly a century and disappeared in about 20 years." Quinn's warnings will come as a surprise to the Irish sporting landscape as, outwardly at least, the GAA has never looked healthier as it basks in the glory of its headquarters while huge crowds continue to flock to its games. "I spent a number of years in the late 1970s working with businesses that got into difficulties. In all cases, the problem started when things were going well and success was mismanaged. "Every organisation is at its most vulnerable when most successful. And history shows that the management that causes the problem is never good enough to get out of it." He is extremely concerned by what he regards as a civil service mentality within the GAA and claims that while many administrators are doing a good job they are not necessarily doing the right job. "There's a civil service attitude in Dublin generally which is in common with most capital cities. When that type of ethos seeps into an organisation like the GAA, you get an administrative structure that's not as effective as it should be. Everybody in Croke Park is working hard, but in terms of effectiveness it should be more streamlined. Strategy is more important than day-to-day administration. We have become an administrative rather than a strategic organisation," he remarks. He is surprised by the increase in the number of staff in Croke Park, pointing out that it was reduced to under 20 in the late 1980s, but has since increased dramatically. "When we cut it before, things rolled along fine. Nobody died as a result and the Association kept running. We have a hell of a multiple of 20 there now and that worries me. You can run an organisation on a tight administrative structure but ours is not tight," he says. So who controls staff numbers? "I don't know. I'm not sure I ever knew, but I certainly don't know who controls it now," he states. Glass ceiling He is also concerned that there's a glass ceiling effect within the GAA's ranks and believes that all top posts should be on a seven-year contract basis with nobody serving more than two terms. "Even then, there should be a major review after the first term. Until we get fixed-term contracts for our senior staff, we're not going to deliver the change and innovation needed. I want people to be always challenging those about them. Smash the glass ceiling because it impedes initiative - anything less is not tolerated in business any more. "The Quinn Group had one chief executive managing two companies in two different sectors which were big enough to be publicly-quoted PLCs. It was a demanding role, but we appointed him because we knew he could do the job. Under the GAA system, a man of that ability would probably end up as assistant ticketing manager." Quinn believes that competition from all other sports will present a massive threat to the GAA over the next 20 years, so it's vital for the organisation to be ready to take on the challenge which, he suspects, is not the case at present. "At one level we're better off than we were 20 years ago but at another I don't believe we're as fighting fit. We would come under pressure more easily now," he reflects. Like the rest of the GAA community, he felt proud when Croke Park opened its doors to rugby and soccer this spring - a decision he felt was inevitable as it would have been a sporting calamity if 'home' fixtures had to be moved to Britain. "It would be a disaster for the GAA too because we would get all the blame. Opening Croke Park was the right thing to do, but I don't believe we should waste our energy now on taking pride in our achievements. "We're still on a lap of honour for Croke Park when we should be working on making the future better," he warns. He is adamant that the monies generated from renting Croke Park should be kept well clear of administrative matters and instead channelled into vital projects such as expanding the GAA's base in Dublin, where in some areas the penetration level is less than three per cent. "That's a serious indictment of everybody from the clubs, to the Dublin County Board to Leinster Council to Central Council, but it's not too late to address it. Take some of the millions generated by Croke Park, select neglected areas in Dublin and plough resources - well controlled of course - into starting new clubs. "Stay with them for as long as it takes to get them up and running and then move on to other areas. That's an effective way to spend money." Quinn believes that it's vital for the GAA that Dublin win an All-Ireland senior football title every five years at least and says the best possible bonus for hurling would be if Dublin landed the Liam McCarthy Cup. Dublin area "There's a population of over 1.3 million in the Dublin area. That's a critical mass where it's vital to make an impact. Dublin are doing wonders for the GAA's finances thanks to the crowds they attract, but are doing nothing by comparison in terms of attracting and enthusing playing members in many areas, due largely to the lack of success at senior level," he reasons. "Look at the impact Ireland's one win and a draw had on cricket. Now compare that with the effect an All-Ireland football title win by Dublin would have on the vast population in the city and county. "It's crucial that Dublin start winning titles. You would expect that their strike rate would be better but then when you look at the number of country players on senior Dublin club teams, you wonder what it's all about." Quinn's concern over the state of play in Dublin and his fears that a lack of planning for the future development of the GAA countrywide provides food for thought at a time when many believe the Association is on a record high. He believes that the SRC report of 2002 charted a vision that provoked a defensive reaction from which the GAA has yet to emerge. "That's dangerous. Our greatest strength is the weakness of our competitors in real terms. But will it always remain so? I believed prior to 2002 that we had spent the previous 10 years building up a huge level of confidence in the GAA through the redevelopment of Croke Park, but when we suggested some changes, we got defensiveness. "That's not the hallmark of a progressive organisation or one that's full of confidence and that worries me as we look towards the next 20 years in a rapidly changing world, both locally and globally," he concludes. 
