sport gaa
{  
    December 15 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/order-in-the-house-now-treacy-sets-targets-for-future-26200942.html }
IMAGES of John Treacy ... spindly figure gliding over bottomless mud to World Cross County Championship victory in Glasgow; matchstick man sliding between the stair-rods to retain his title in a Limerick downpour; rapier thin hero deriding infernal heat to claim Olympic silver on the sun-baked streets of Los Angeles. Running through all three is a strand of steel cold courage is the common denominator. Once he has set his sights on an objective, Treacy pursues it relentlessly. Though Treacy, retired from competitive athletics in October 1995, he still has to draw on the qualities that made him a champion as he tackles a marathon of a different sort. WHEN he formally took up office as chairman of the new Irish Sports Council on January 1 last, Treacy stepped into a morass as deep as anything he might have encountered on the cross country circuit. Prepared for office by more than 18 months at the head of the highly-charged Sports Strategy Committee set up by former sports minister Bernard Allen, Treacy knew precisely the problems his 16-man council would face. ORDER The first task is to try and impose order on a chaotic national sporting set-up to get a myriad of national associations and organisations onto the same wavelength and ready to pull in the same direction. It's a bit like trying to untangle a plate of steaming spaghetti. Yet Treacy and his cohorts have a clear vision of how this job can be done. The key lies in the Sports Council's ability to persuade these bodies that they should implement a clearly-defined national sports strategy in their own arena. The muscle will be provided by a new, streamlined system of distributing Government funds to sport. To date, Government funding of sports organisations has been made on an incremental basis for example, if the government decided in a two per cent increase in the overall sports budget, each national association would receive exactly two per cent extra in their annual allocation. But the Sports Council recommends that from now on funding for sports organisations will be performance related the sports organisations will have to satisfy the Sports Council that they are following the national sports strategy. AS Treacy explains: ``I had one-on-one meetings with all the sports governing bodies in May and June and we have had strategic workshops for them in the National Coaching and Training Centre. ``We are trying to help them plan for the future. You could say that through the NCTC we are developing a template for these organisations. It is important for them to know precisely where they are going and how to get there. We have told the sports bodies that their performance is going to be a key ingredient in terms of receiving Government funding. CONTRIBUTION ``Meanwhile, we have to identify those who are well developed and those who may need a bit of work if they are to achieve what is expected of them,'' adds Treacy. ``Those sports governing bodies who are making a contribution will be funded accordingly.'' Diplomatically, Treacy declined to name the country's best performing sports organisations but he conceded that it was no fluke that finance minister Charlie McCreevy was prepared to pour £20m of surplus lottery funds into the Croke Park development in his recent budget. ``The GAA really has made an enormous contribution to Irish sporting life over so many years. Look at the coaching manuals they produce and all the full time regional coaches they have. Look at how they go around from school to school bringing sport to children. Look at all the voluntary staff they have at work in the community. ``People talk about the all the money the GAA make at the turnstiles, but they plough it all back into the sport and its structure right down to the local level,'' he enthused. The whole area of funding has been examined by the Sports Council's `High Performance Advisory Group', just one of half a dozen committees Treacy has set up as he tackles the enormous task of implementing an all-embracing national sports strategy. Within the next few weeks, this group's ideas for granting Government cash to Irish sport's elite performers will be unveiled by Minister for Tourism, Sport and Recreation, Dr Jim McDaid. But Treacy stresses that funding for the elite is only the tip of the iceberg as far as the Sports Council is concerned. ``It's not just about the stars winning at international level, though that is important for national morale. It's really all about little Johnny and little Mary in every Irish city, town and village getting access to sport and all the benefits that will bring to their lives. ``Had I not been given the opportunity to run in races organised by the BLOE in Co. Waterford when I was a boy, then I would never have become an athlete,'' he insisted. VOLUNTEERS ``Right around the world, sport is brought to people by huge networks of volunteers. It is vital that those people are given the support and encouragement they need and it is our job to assist the national governing bodies in doing that here.'' The first priority set by Dr McDaid when he took office was to place Ireland in the vanguard of sport's war against doping and the Sports council enthusiastically embraced this task, producing a policy paper for the minister's review after four months of intense effort. An announcement on that front is imminent. As an appointee of former sports minister Allen, was Treacy apprehensive about a change of Government some five months into his new career? Far from it. Indeed, Treacy had been greatly encouraged by a pre-election chat with Bertie Ahern in which the Fianna Fail leader had stated his intention to give sport a seat at the cabinet table. THE decision to elevate sport from a junior ministry at the department of education to the full ministerial level under the Tourism, Sport and Recreation portfolio is of immense significance, according to Treacy. ``I don't think the importance of this development has been fully stated in the media,'' he says. ``Prior to this, sport effectively was a section of the Department of Education. Out of an overall Departmental budget of some two or three billion, sport accounted for some £13m. He goes on: ``Tourism is very important to the country and now sport is being recognised for its contribution to the lives of Irish people. The benefits to sport were almost immediate, with an increase of nearly £5m in the sports budget this year alone.'' The recent budget increases for sport were extremely significant to Treacy as he tries to establish a new order. The credibility of the new Sports Council will be built on its ability to reward the national associations for their co-operation. The full backing of the exchequer is critical to that end and, so far, Dr McDaid and Mr McCreevey have delivered in style. As he organises a quiet revolution in Irish sport from his office on the 11th floor of Hawkins House in Dublin's city centre, Treacy must draw deeply from expertise gained during his studies for a degree in business studies at Providence University; the tenacity which underpinned a glittering carreer in the athletics arena and the sharp intellect which inspired Allen to appoint him chairman of the Sports Strategy Committee in the first place. According to pre-election reports, Treacy was being courted by both Fine Gael and the PDs to run in his native Waterford. But he firmly refutes suggestions that his career is inevitably taking him down the road to politics. Discounting those reports as typical of ``the sort of speculation which is always going to surround an individual in the public eye,'' Treacy stresses that he is still very much a member of the sporting community. ACHIEVEMENT ``I am not in a political arena, it's a sporting arena. This is definitely a unique position to be in. There is a great sense of achievement in getting stuck into initiatives which you know will be of immediate benefit to sport. But weighed against that is a lot of administrative-type work as well. ``So far, we have been putting the structures in place and developing ideas and initiatives for 1998. There is so much to be done that it is just a matter of being taking it step by careful step,'' explains Treacy, who would not be able to balance the three roles of Sports Council chairman, husband to Finnoula and father of four schoolchildren without great personal discipline and understanding of those at home. He devotes himself exclusively to his immediate family one weekend and concentrates on the extended Irish sporting family the next, attending sports events of every description all around the country. ``It is important that I go to events. I want to look, listen and, above all, learn. I want people to know this is their Council; that this door open to them. Always!'' 
