sport gaa
{  
    December 03 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/harsh-words-misdirected-26419428.html }
A FEW weeks ago the Ryder Cup victory celebrations turned into a live televised booze-up of quite spectacular stripe. I noted in this column at the time the surprising silence from the people normally so quick to lambast the GAA for its attitude towards alcohol. Ah well, I thought to myself, perhaps that silence was symptomatic of a new attitude, a realisation that there's no point blaming sports organisations for the wider problems of society. Maybe we've entered an era where it's acknowledged that young people are not influenced by the behaviour of sports stars. Well, if we had, it was a short-lived era. Because this week it was back to business as usual as the GAA once more got both barrels and other sporting bodies escaped unscathed. Dr Joe Barry of the National Advisory Conference on Drugs decided to describe the association as hypocritical for launching a manual on drink and drug use for its clubs while continuing to allow Guinness to sponsor the All-Ireland hurling championship. The Croke Park top brass were not too happy about this. And you can't blame them. Because Dr Barry restricted his criticism to the GAA. A visitor from another country might thus conclude that the association is alone in accepting sponsorship from the drinks industry. Dr Barry has form on this issue. When the GAA decided to extend the Guinness sponsorship back in May, he declared that: "By their decision the GAA has turned its back on the many thousands of Irish people and families struggling with alcohol related problems." Harsh words, and words which might have been more properly directed at The Vintners' Association or Diageo, for example. But no one ever talks like that about the people who actually manufacture drink or those who sell it (or indeed governments whose health policies mean that there is a gross shortage of facilities for the treatment of alcoholism.) It's much easier to attack sporting bodies, or rather one sporting body. The good doctor's rationale for restricting his criticism to the GAA is that the association has a policy on drink while the other sports organisations do not. You would not need to be Socrates to find this reasoning bizarre in the extreme. The GAA, in other words, is being punished for actually trying to do something. The governing bodies of rugby and soccer escape Dr Barry's lash because they are viewed as being less culpable by virtue of not addressing the problem at all. And the GAA has done something. Its response may be flawed, but at least it shows some willingness to engage with the problems caused by excessive drinking in our society. The cynics might say that the taskforce on alcohol set up by Seán Kelly was merely a cosmetic exercise, but I don't think the former president was the kind of man to lend his name to something of that ilk. And I don't think people of the calibre (or even Kaliber) of Joe Connolly, John Lonergan and Brendan Murphy were either. If anything, the taskforce has bent over backwards to try and address the problem, and the suggestions apparently contained in the manual are not designed to make things easy for the clubs. For example, they are recommending that GAA clubhouses not sell alcohol. I happen to think that this idea is wrong-headed, but it is not the kind of idea you'd expect from people who were merely concerned with maintaining the status quo so the association can save face. The reason it's wrong-headed is that a ban on alcohol sales would starve GAA clubs of revenue and finish off the idea of the clubhouse as a social centre for everyone. Like it or not, a great deal of Irish people want to have a pint when they go out. They would be unlikely to hang around the clubhouse for too long if there was nothing stronger available than a rock shandy. Dr Loftus makes his case from within and has the best interests of the association at heart The ban wouldn't stop GAA members drinking, it would just mean that they did it in the local pub instead. Profits for the club down, profits for the publican up. Which result would leave the club looking for sponsorship from the local bar. Anyway, Croke Park would have a bit of a cheek asking clubs to enter the era of prohibition while the Guinness sponsorship still remains. You see, I do think the GAA should scrap the sponsorship. Another doctor, Dr Mick Loftus, has fought the good fight on this and related issues for years and I have the height of respect for him. He is not lecturing the GAA from the outside, he is making his case from within and no one can doubt that he has the best interests of the association at heart. I fervently hope he wins his battle. But I also hope that the FAI cut their ties with Carlsberg, that the Celtic League divests itself of its links with Magners, that there are no more Heineken Cups or Budweiser Derbies. Alcohol sponsorship is undesirable but there's no point in expecting the GAA to indulge in a solo run on this one. I'm always amused when John O'Donoghue declares his belief that the assocation should kick Guinness to the kerb or when I read that the government is keen that Croke Park make this gesture. The government, unlike the GAA, actually has the power to ban alcohol sponsorship of sporting events. And until it does that the lectures should be put on hold. If it took this step then there would be a level playing field and the GAA would not be faced with the prospect of making a noble gesture which resulted in Guinness pouring money into soccer and rugby. One interesting statistic is that cider, for the first time ever, is currently selling better than stout. It is also mainly a young people's drink, one targeted at the youngsters whose vulnerability is always invoked in this debate. Yet the Celtic League's decision to take on Magners as a sponsor provoked no controversy at all. Perhaps there was a statement from Dr Barry appealing to the rugby authorities not to go down this road. Then again, perhaps there wasn't. And if people want the Guinness sponsorship to remain in situ ad infinitum the best thing they could do is continue these unfair attacks on an association which, for all its faults, is at least trying to get its act together. Because if it wasn't for the GAA, often the sole provider of recreation in rural communities all over the country, there'd be an awful lot more youngsters wasting their lives in the pubs. Doctor Barry claims that he is also concerned about the drinking culture in rugby. But he only mentioned that in passing. It doesn't seem to have exercised him to the point that he felt compelled to lambast the IRFU in public. In the end it's not the GAA who look hypocritical. The doctor's intervention, like a bad pint, is slightly stomach-turning. 
