sport gaa
{  
    April 06 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/gaa-to-reap-60m-bonanza-from-stadium-ireland-deal-26089292.html }
THE GAA were last night handed the equivalent of a multiple win in the National Lottery with an announcement that they are to receive an additional grant of £60 million from the Government to bring the State's commitment to  the re-development of Croke Park to £85 million. The latest Government grant will be paid in yearly instalments of £15 million for each of the next three years. In addition, an extra payment of £15 million will be paid to ensure that Croke Park is suitable for the opening ceremony for the Special Olympics in 2003. This will bring the total cost of re-developing Croke Park to £190 million. The dramatic news of the Government intervention to the Croke Park project was announced by GAA President Sean McCague at the opening of Congress at the Burlington Hotel in Dublin last night. In return for the £60 million grant, the GAA have agreed to row in behind the Government proposal to build a National Stadium in Abbotstown and have promised to play "a substantive programme in Stadium Ireland when it is completed in five years' time." The GAA have agreed to play championship games "up to and including All-Ireland semi-finals" at the proposed National Stadium. Last night's announcement has eased the tension ahead of today's debate on whether or not the GAA should open up Croke Park to other sports. It remains to be seen how the Roscommon motion to ease the restrictions on the use of Croke Park will be dealt with but the announcement of a £60 million grant from the Government is likely to soften even the most hardline cough of those who regard playing soccer or rugby in Croke Park as a sporting sacrilege. Last night's announcement also opens the way for the Government to sidestep the building of an 80,000-seater National Stadium in Abbotstown, having granted a total of £85 million to the GAA for the re-development of Croke Park. Planning permission has yet to be finalised for the proposed National Stadium which, in any event, is not due to be finished until 2005. If the GAA agree to the Roscommon motion to ease the restrictions on the use of Croke Park, it will enable them to do a deal with the IRFU and the FAI over the next four years. It would also open the possibility of the Government cutting back on the Abbotstown project by building a smaller stadium, while Croke Park became the venue for crowd pullers in excess of 40,000. The GAA, meanwhile, were ecstatic with last night's announcement, pointing out that it had supported the concept of a National Stadium since the beginning and that it always saw it as a complement to the facilities at Croke Park. The GAA had specifically requested that the National Stadium design should incorporate the playing dimensions for hurling and football. President Sean McCague said that the GAA saw the National Stadium as a sports infrastructure complex providing "necessary playing and also ancillary facilities for a multiplicity of sporting activity. "We see Stadium Ireland as being complementary to Croke Park rather than being a competitor. We have agreed with the Government to play a programme of games in Stadium Ireland when it is completed in five years' time. The Government have agreed to provide added funding for the GAA's games development programme and capital projects countrywide over the next decade. "The President insisted that the capital injection by the Government, allied to the earning capacity of Croke Park and the maximisation of the commercial opportunities, guaranteed that Croke Park will never be a burden to the GAA. "On the contrary, it will develop in a short few years not just as the Association's symbol of confidence and vibrancy but as the GAA's economic dynamo. We had the courage and the vision to redevelop Croke Park and to expend millions of pounds on grounds around the country over the years. "There are many who begrudge us the fruits of this effort and who are ideologically resistant to any assistance that we might rightly receive in the provision of our sporting infrastructure. "Let me remind them that we have expended the effort, we have made the investment and we have taken the risks in providing infrastructure for over 20,000 teams and nearly one million members," said McCague. McCague said that the re-development of Croke Park will generate £20 million in VAT alone and that when the stadium is completed it will have generated £150 million of economic activity. This Government understands sport's role in improving physical health and well-being of the population with consequent reductions in health service spending. "That is why they have announced significant financial assistance to other sports for their games promotion and development and it is why they are providing Sports Campus Ireland." Meanwhile, it was also announced that the GAA and RTE television had agreed to a three-year deal for the coverage of hurling and football. The protracted negotiations have reached a satisfactory conclusion, with RTE again emerging as the top bidder in a process which has taken several months to complete. The figure involved was not disclosed but I understand that it is in the region of £6.3 million. This brings to a conclusion a most unsatisfactory situation which has arisen in recent weeks when no GAA games were shown on RTE. TG4, who have been very progressive in their coverage of hurling and football, are part of the RTE deal and will continue with their programmes over the next three years. 
