sport gaa
{ Kevin O'Shaughnessy 
    March 19 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/sky-didnt-fall-in-on-day-soccer-was-first-played-in-croke-park-26093744.html }
THE skies did not turn crimson, great torrents of fire and brimstone did not pour forth from the heavens, traumatised birds did not cease chirping, an THE skies did not turn crimson, great torrents of fire and brimstone did not pour forth from the heavens, traumatised birds did not cease chirping, and the earth most assuredly did not shudder on its axis from the force of great Gaels doing frenzied cartwheels in their graves. This may come as a bit of a surprise, but there were no apocalyptic scenes on the day the first soccer match was played on the sacred sod at Croke Park. It passed just like any other summer's day the sun rose and set at its appointed times, and in between we were treated to the normal Irish mix of sunny spells, scattered showers and, of course, the usual fresh south-westerly air-flow over the country. People worked and played, cursed and prayed, not paying a blind bit of attention to the momentous event which was happening on the hallowed ground off Jones' Road. Actually, the public's indifference can be explained by the fact that they did not know about it as there were no reports on radio or TV, nor so much as a single line about it in any of the newspapers, this one included. Astonishing to think that, after years of berating the GAA for not allowing soccer be played at Croke Park, a soccer game is played there and the media completely ignore it. Well, today this column shall break that conspiracy of silence by exclusively revealing that a full 90-minute, eleven-a-side game of soccer took place in Croke Park three summers ago. It was a mid-week afternoon during the height of the re-development work at the venue and the teams were comprised of two groups of construction workers who decided to smuggle in boots and togs in their toolboxes and create a bit of sporting history during an elongated lunch break. It may have only been a friendly challenge game that was not sanctioned by either FIFA or the GAA, but it was a game of soccer nonetheless, featuring throw-ins, off-sides, corner kicks, headers, hand-balls, and all those other facets of the code that are so repugnant to the more conservative elements of Gaeldom. It happened, a ball manufactured by Mitre, not by O'Neill's, was kicked around Croke Park ... and the sky didn't fall in. It is timely to recall that match this morning, and highlight the absence of any calamitous repercussions, because over the next three weeks the GAA will have to do some soul-searching over their embargo on other sports being played on their property. Roscommon, Louth and Laois have all tabled motions to the GAA's Annual Congress in Dublin on April 7, calling on the association to ease their restrictions. It's an emotive issue, not least because the ban has for years been used by the West Brit sections of the media as a handy stick with which to beat the GAA. Far from being liberal and open-minded, as they like to think they are, the GAA's critics on this issue are, in truth, indulging in communist autocracy at its very worst by telling people what to with their own property. While they will happily rant on about how the GAA should allow soccer and rugby be played in Croke Park as if it was some sort of moral issue, they would never dream of suggesting that each home owner must provide accommodation for two stray dogs off the street, or that the Irish Independent should make their new £60million printing press available to a rival foreign import like The Sunday Times. The point the so-called liberals miss is that the GAA have a constitutional right to use their property as they so wish, subject to the laws of the land. The £25m grant the GAA got to assist their £174m building programme at Croke Park does not alter that fundamental right. Just like giving grants to build a factory, it was a shrewd piece of business as the Government have already got back twice that sum, £50m, in VAT and other taxes from the Croke Park project. It was certainly money better spent than the £45m bribe they have just given to the FAI to abandon Eircom Park, or the billion squids they are about to plough into that monument to Bertie's ego out in Abbottstown. But it's not just some sections of the media who misguidedly think this is a moral issue. In a recent report, the Irish Sports Council, who should know better, recommended that the Government should, in future, only give grants to sports facilities that can be used by a wide variety of sporting organisations. This too is intrinsically discriminatory for the simple reason that while soccer matches could be played on GAA pitches, hurling and Gaelic football can't be played on soccer grounds because the dimensions of a soccer pitch are too small. Anyway, using big sticks to beat the GAA into making its grounds available for other sports is pointless because the GAA possess that Irish trait of hating nothing more than being told what to do. When antagonised, they get all defensive and will never budge an inch. The decision on whether they should open their doors to other sports is one the GAA must take alone, free from outside pressures. And it's a decision that must be based, not on emotions, but on cold, reasoned arithmetic. The only question they need to answer is: would it benefit the GAA's image and their finances to allow the Munster rugby team play a few matches a year in the Gaelic Grounds in Limerick, or to permit the Irish soccer team to play their biggest games, say the home World Cup qualifiers against Holland and Portugal, in Croke Park? The Gaelic Grounds in Limerick is about to undergo an £8m refurbishment and will be crippled by debt if it is to just house one or two major Munster championship matches per year. Therefore, it makes financial sense to transfer a couple of Munster's biggest European Cup rugby matches from the 13,000 capacity Thomond Park to the 50,000 capacity Ennis Road venue. It would solve Munster rugby's ticket shortages, while the GAA would gain a few image kudos as well as a big bag of cash that could be used to promote their own games, so everyone's happy. There is also a compelling argument for allowing an occasional soccer or rugby match be played in Croke Park, a venue which Martin Breheny, the GAA correspondent of this parish, has taken to describing as the world's most expensive bird sanctuary because it lies idle between the months of October and March every year when the only thing it plays host to is our nesting feathered friends. The important thing is that it is a decision the GAA should be free to make. Their hands currently are tied by their own rule book, but by relaxing the veto and allowing the Central Council to use their discretion on an case by case basis, they would finally have the right to choose if, when, where they should lease out their own property. And do you know what, the sky won't fall in. e-mail: koshaughnessy@indpendent.ie 
