sport gaa
{ Trevor Hogan 
    April 03 2014 10:35 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/trevor-hogan-the-fact-is-rugby-needs-sky-the-gaa-doesnt-30154242.html }
Having been involved with full-time professional sport, I've always been blown away by the dedication of GAA players. The level of training and sacrifice required at inter-county level is not far off that found in provincial rugby set-ups.  When you add in the pressures of work life, there is a clear sense that these players don't get the respect or treatment they deserve. This makes it all the more infuriating to hear that the GAA has sold the broadcasting rights for some of its games to Sky Sports, without even consulting with Congress, and while still leaving the players out in the cold. It is a sign that the exploitation of the people most fundamental to the GAA – the players – continues unashamedly. In a week when Sky and BT Sports reached a compromise on the broadcasting of the Heineken Cup, there is a revealing comparison to be made between rugby and the GAA. Essentially, rugby needs Sky – the GAA doesn't. DISARRAY The sad reality for rugby is that a European competition would not survive without the revenue derived from a TV deal. Its very future was thrown into disarray with the prospect of Sky being sidelined. On the other hand, the GAA championship does not depend on money from a corporation to exist. It is not a 'product' that can ever be bought and sold. The championship and the link with the parish and county is deeply rooted in our cultural and sporting identity. Our connection with professional rugby – whether we like it or not – does not run as deep. It has had to be commodified in order to get even close to the GAA's level of support. But at least in rugby there is a balance where the players get a fair reward for their efforts that has also been reflected in the huge growth of the game across Europe. This is not an argument for professionalism in the GAA, rather a call for respect and fair treatment of players and fans. Kerry footballer Tommy Walsh, currently playing Australian Rules, tweeted: "There is no other sport in the world where players and supporters are taken advantage of more." To make things worse, it is the very selfless spirit of players and supporters that the GAA are so cynically capitalising on with this move. They are trading on their charitable nature, by presenting the deal as being about helping the diaspora. Yet if this concern about the ex-pat community was really the motivation, why not just improve the internet access, or increase availability through other digital platforms? Even still, every game that RTE airs is already available in Australia through Setanta (albeit via subscription), and Irish people across America have little problem watching the games as it is. Worse again, in Britain fans are now being asked to fork out £40-plus per month for a package that previously cost under £10 through Premier Sports. This 'diaspora' excuse has all the hallmarks of a smokescreen to cover up what is essentially a commercial venture. Some commentators this week have spoken about bringing the GAA to far-flung corners of the world, which is laudable. But the reality is that the GAA is struggling to bring hurling to several counties in Ireland, never mind Brisbane. Why else would Galway have to play in the Leinster Championship? In rugby, Leinster's recent success in spreading the game into counties like Carlow and Wexford, and Munster's similar efforts are a tangible example of how the GAA could strengthen its domestic game. The GAA's argument is made even weaker when they admit that the money they have received from Sky is only marginally better than that on offer from TV3. The deal may not have be so difficult a pill to swallow if they at least struck a fair price from Rupert Murdoch. Yet, despite their poor negotiation skills, they still they still expect the hard-pressed Irish public to shell out up €400 a year for a subscription. Even more worryingly, the GPA – the body representing the players – in welcoming this deal is ignoring the continued exploitation of amateur players at the expense of big commercial interests. Westmeath's Dessie Dolan bucked the trend by shedding some light on the reality for most county players, noting that Sky Sports are joining the ranks of Garth Brooks, One Direction (and the IRFU) in extracting financial benefit from Croke Park. All the while, as the cash flows in to the GAA coffers, the players, some of whom are unemployed or forced into emigration, are expected to sit back and accept their treatment as fair. It is time to recognise the sacrifices of the players, rather than continue the hypocrisy.   O'Connell's demanding attitude the vital ingredient for provinces to taste success This weekend is one of historic potential for Irish rugby. Three different games – yet a common theme is evident in the approaches of Ulster, Munster and Leinster. A brutal honesty runs through their strategies that will be at the core of getting what would prove to be a major landmark of three Irish sides in the European Cup semi-finals. There is nothing like a shot of directness to focus the mind and provoke a massive reaction from a group of players. In Munster, Paul O'Connell has laid down the challenge for his team-mates when he said that he doesn't think they've played particularly well in a long time: "I'd find it hard to put my hands on any big performances from us in recent months." This is the attitude that has consistently driven Irish rugby to new levels over the past decade, never being slow to recognise deficiencies and continually demanding higher standards. While the news that Census Johnston will miss the game with a neck injury is a boost, this O'Connell and Munster mindset will help ensure they are in a position to confront the still huge task of a side containing players like Yannick Nyanga and Louis Picamoles – as well as their lethal back three, including Yoann Huget and Vincent Clerc. Similarly in Leinster, there has been a stark candour in highlighting the immensity of the challenge they face. As Eoin Reddan stated, "It is very hard to put a decent spin on it ... Even at our best, we're going to find it tough this week." Not only is this game the toughest facing all of the provinces this weekend, it is probably Leinster's most difficult fixture in their Heineken Cup history. Leinster's ability to recognise this and still identify the key processes they need to get right – such as their ball security that was lacking at times in the first half against Munster – will be critical in achieving the ruthless accuracy necessary for the win. If there is a side in Europe that can emerge victorious from the Stade Mayol, it is Leinster. Likewise, the forthright assessment of Paddy Jackson summed up the approach of Ulster for their clash against Saracens. Last week, he said, "I think it's about time we stopped feeling sorry for ourselves." Coming off the back of recent losses in the Heineken Cup final, Pro12 final and European Cup quarter-finals against the same opposition last year, the determination to put things right will be palpable in the Ulster changing room. While this won't be enough in itself – and the fitness of Ruan Pienaar will be of vital importance – the hunger that this attitude breeds will be the foundation for an Ulster win tomorrow evening. There are games in rugby when you know motivation will look after itself. Despite the mammoth task facing the Irish provinces this weekend, the parts needed for history to be made are in place. Irish Independent 
