sport gaa
{  
    December 02 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/the-gaas-amateur-ethos-is-coming-under-increasing-pressure-writes-john-obrien-26335836.html }
IT has always been the deeply-grained belief of the staunch GAA follower that there is something about his sport that lends it a charm and appeal which is unique and sets it apart from the sporting herd. Last week will have tested their faith. If there was anything to be learned it is that Gaelic games, for all their charm and splendour, might not be quite as unique as we sometimes like to imagine. In the agreed compromise, a strike that few believed was likely to happen was averted, and all sides expressed satisfaction. In truth, though, no one could claim an outright victory. The GPA didn't get the figure they had initially been promised. Instead they grabbed what they could get. And for the first time the GAA conceded that players would receive payment, which prompted the widespread question: where will it all end? In tears is the common fear. You could have been positive and reasoned that if players were going to get cash then at least it was a transparent business conducted through the Sports Council and not merely slipped under the table as has been the prevailing method for decades. It is the transparency of it that bothers some people, though. The staunch GAA follower distrusts change and hankers after the status quo. He worries that the open payment of cash will fundamentally alter the GAA and rip apart the fabric of the game. If that fabric traditionally embraced unofficial imbursements of various kinds to coaches and players then so be it. As long as you didn't see it or hear it personally, then the evil didn't exist. The GAA isn't unique in this. Any sport that ever crossed the border from amateurism to professionalism once faced the same questions. Shortly before the International Rugby Board lit a stick of dynamite under the amateur code in Paris in August 1995, the IRFU felt secure enough to release a statement declaring the untouchability of the old ways. Looking back 12 years on their innocence is almost touching. "The IRFU will oppose the payment of players to play the game and payment to others such as coaches, referees, touch-judges and members of committees for taking part in the game because the game is a leisure activity played on a voluntary basis." You need to remember, though, that the IRFU were far from alone in their naïveté. Nobody in the northern hemisphere in the lead-up to that fateful Paris meeting believed that amateurism was under threat: not players, not officials and not journalists. Players talked about being compensated for lost hours or rewarded for corporate outings. But full-blown professionalism was nowhere on their agenda. No more or less than the GAA, rugby cherished its amateur status even if its reasons for doing so differed slightly. Historically, rugby drew its strength from the moneyed classes and they clung to their status as amateurs enjoying a leisure activity much the same way as the Victorians looked on tennis or bowls. The idea of being paid, at least openly, seemed cheap and tawdry. To the GAA amateurism is even more fundamental and intrinsic to its sense of identity. The GAA loves looking on at the crass commercialism of rival sports and asserting passionately and with impressive conviction that it will never sell its soul or compromise its connection with the local community from which it draws its strength. To many it is the last great cause worth fighting to the death for. Nothing is written in stone, however. Cast your mind back 10 years and try to imagine a Welsh soccer team or English rugby side lining up for their anthems at Croke Park. It couldn't have been foreseen. There are still people in the north who haven't forgiven the association for dropping Rule 21 towards the end of the last century. Only a deluded fantasist could suggest that the GAA will have gone professional within the next decade. But 20 years from now? 30? Whether it is desirable or not or whether it would kill the fabric of the game are related but separate questions. The first depends on where you are coming from and the answer to the second is a tentative no. Even allowing for Ireland's disastrous World Cup, professionalism has unquestionably advanced Irish rugby, created an unprecedented level of interest in the game and allowed the IRFU to expand it into areas like Tallaght and Ballymun that had previously been closed territory. It is true that club rugby has deep-rooted problems but how much of that is down to the advent of professionalism or just sheer bad administration on the part of the union is a moot point. In Australian Rules a flourishing amateur game co-exists peacefully alongside a professional game. With sensible and visionary leadership there's no reason why it can't happen. In Ireland the common rap is that the GAA couldn't sustain a professional game, but surely we might wonder that if anybody could make a serious fist of it, the GAA would be your choice. We are so often reminded of its expertise when it comes to administration and the building and developing of facilities that you'd be hard-pressed to doubt their ability to pull it off. Of course it lacks the international outlet and revenue streams available to other sports but so does the AFL and Aussie Rules has been professional for 80 years. Last summer Laois minor Zach Tuohy was being spoken of as a marketing dream for the GAA and now he has joined the growing exodus of players leaving for Australia to pursue their professional dream. Over 20 years ago it was the pressure exerted by rugby league clubs offering deals to union players that ultimately forced the Australian rugby union's hand on the issue of professionalism. It isn't that critical yet for the GAA but if the current trickle of players leaving threatened to become a flood its continued embrace of amateurism would face its severest test. It's a question that isn't likely to disappear. Right now you can sense a polarising of opinion within the GAA, between those who assert the primacy of the grassroots game and those who recognise that, for the need to celebrate and protect the volunteer ethos, it is the game's biggest stars who are the Association's greatest asset and its most effective recruitment weapon when it comes to attracting kids ahead of rival codes. The challenge for an organisation striving to maintain its amateur ethic is to embrace both those conflicting voices in a way that makes neither camp feel hard done by or discriminated against. How they fare with such a delicate business is anyone's guess but, as a test case, it will be instructive to observe the outcome of the battle between rival television stations for the carve-up of the rights to screen the football and hurling championships. A few years back when the FAI fought a bitter battle with RTE and public opinion over the rights to sell its product to the highest bidder -- in their case Sky Sports -- its competitors looked on, tut-tutting like the rest of us, but secretly thanking the hapless football officials for opening up what effectively had been a closed revenue stream. Nickey Brennan may have been sincere when he said it was about maximising exposure for the GAA but when you consider the sums that are involved -- in the region of €20m for the next three years -- it is hard to believe that it isn't about the money too. And if it is about money, at least partly, then how difficult is it to imagine in the years ahead that championship games will, horror of horrors, be lost to terrestrial TV? The truth is that a cash-hungry Association might always be able to keep the lid firmly shut on professionalism but it will never be a straight-forward business. Think of players as they weighed up details of their own modest grants against the details of the GAA's latest windfall. Thus far shall you go, they are told, and no further. Time will be the only test of that. 
