sport gaa
{  
    March 21 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/the-gaa-box-and-the-mega-bucks-26271380.html }
IT didn't generate a barrage of sensationalist headlines or provoke a national debate, but recent comments by Nickey Brennan could have far-reaching consequences for Irish sports fans. The GAA President's remarks about his organisation adopting a more progressive approach towards marketing merit careful analysis. IT didn't generate a barrage of sensationalist headlines or provoke a national debate, but recent comments by Nickey Brennan could have far-reaching consequences for Irish sports fans. The GAA President's remarks about his organisation adopting a more progressive approach towards marketing merit careful analysis. By consolidating the contractual terms of their major sponsors, the GAA is boldly striding towards what is the standard 'best practice' in the world sports marketing industry. That this development - and indeed the future strategic marketing policy of the association - is being driven by outside experts is a clear indication that the association is at last acknowledging serious internal deficiencies in this area. The perception that the GAA is a resounding commercial success is far from valid. The methods used to maximise commercial income in any sport are proven and standardised. Centralisation of rights ownership is fundamental and it is the one area where the GAA has failed dismally. The fragmentation of commercial rights ownership between different units of the association has crippled the GAA's ability to maximise commercial revenues. A myriad of decentralised county board sponsorship deals include signage at their pitches, so when a league or championship game rolls in to town there is no such thing as 'clean stadia', which is precisely what the IRFU commanded and received for games held in Croke Park by the way. The GAA has too many chiefs, but International Rugby is a well-oiled commercial machine and any talk of incumbent GAA sponsors remaining in place down Jones's Road was no doubt succinct and to the point. This is exactly the type of conversation the GAA should have been having with county boards a very long time ago. Brands like exclusivity and they typically like to keep company with six to eight brands (albeit from non-competitive industries) of commensurate stature at any given event. For this, they will pay a very handsome premium. That the GAA's commercial environment has quite literally been littered with random pitch side advertising boards for many years speaks for itself. That this, by all indications, is about to change speaks louder still. That it will do so in the year that the GAA will negotiate a new television rights deal with an increasing portfolio of interested broadcasters screams for attention it has not been getting. It is a fact that spectators consume sports to a far greater extent indirectly through television than directly through personal attendance at events. Attendances at championship games have tipped beyond two million in recent years, but in 2005 combined viewership figures for the All-Ireland football and hurling finals alone accounted for a similar set of eyeballs. By extension, the value of quality, non cluttered perimeter signage perhaps best exemplified by soccer's Champions League, rises dramatically when matched with such viewing figures. The relationship between sport and business starts to add up, and where it adds up most is TV. Broadcasters buy the right to air sporting events for one reason only - profit. Sporting associations sell their rights for one reason only - money. The broadcaster will profit by selling advertising around the coverage, in many cases to the sponsors of the event, or, a la Sky TV, using their exclusive coverage of the product to drive subscription to a pay-per-view sports package. The television rights package is like an apple pie; buy it in its entirety and you'll get it for a song. Buy it in individual pieces and you will pay dearly. More than one hungry client equates to a handsome payday for the baker! The last time the GAA put its pie on the market, RTE enjoyed a virtual monopoly and Setanta were still in their infancy. The BBC, UTV, and any northern Gael unfortunate enough to live beyond the reach of the RTE signal, got subtly shafted in a revenue maximisation exercise. In 2007, fresh from their acquisition of a half billion sterling worth of the Premiership TV rights pie, Mickey O'Rourke's Setanta Sports are now an international pay-per-view player with very deep pockets and an appetite for product beyond anything the GAA, or RTE for that matter, will have encountered before. With former RTE Head of Sport Niall Cogley likely to lead the Setanta charge, the negotiations themselves may well warrant pay-per-view status as RTE go head to head with one of their own. Several years back, the GAA's negative public reaction towards the prospect of government legislation designed to protect key sporting events from pay-per-view status was also telling. How could they maximise income from television rights in the absence of credible competition and the prospect of pay per view? How indeed. As the GAA moves ever closer to the warmth of the pay-per-view euro, it would be practical but naive to assume that the association will potentially embitter the grassroots of the association. Remarkably and demonstrably (as the FAI has learned), memories are short and eventual adaptation to pay-per-view is a given. The GAA knows this, Setanta knows this, and every true GAA fan knows that they too will join the queue when the tills open in due course, but probably not before 2010. The AFL, our closest cousin, recently inked a five-year deal worth Aus $780m for the broadcast rights to their 16-team product. The AFL is not unlike the GAA; it is the number one sport ahead of rugby and soccer, and it is indigenous, with little or no global appeal. The international rights to Aussie Rules sell for approximately Aus $1million, while the GAA's international rights have historically outperformed the domestic take. On the contrary, the GAA's domestic figures for Gaelic games pale by comparison. The Setanta factor should change that dramatically in 2007, and a domestic deal comparable with that of the AFL would amount to somewhere north of ?20m each year through 2012 for the greatest amateur sport in the world. Prevailing (but surely destined to change) competitive structures mitigate against an absolute maximisation of revenues, but expect a figure big enough to raise eyebrows. Throw in a revamped sponsorship programme, inevitable hikes in admission prices, escalating income from corporate boxes and renewable multi-year seats in a soon to be debt-free Croke Park, and the future looks bright indeed. The year is 2020 and all of the above equates to ?250 million. The kids don't know who Henry Shefflin is any more, Sky Sports has bought Setanta, and for ?1,500 per annum, The Sky Sports 1 & 2 package includes a handful of Premiership games and four out of every five GAA Championship Games. RTE shows the others (just to keep on the right side of EU legislation) and the finals of course. 250,000 homes sign the direct debit and tune in. Tyrone win the football semi-final and the fresh-faced full-forward has a grandfather who used to line the pitch in the club back home. He's not fit to leave the house now and he doesn't do pay-per-view. The Artane Boys Band crack up a tune he won't hear, his grandson scores a point on his Croke Park debut, and the GAA's savvy marketing convinces an American tourist and his wife that ?120 for a seat in the upper Cusack is value for money. Suitably impressed by the stadium and the talent on display, he strikes up a conversation and nonchalantly asks a friendly man from Dungannon how much the lads are paid. In 1990, Rules 21 and 42 were permanent structures, there were no jersey sponsors and the greatest stadium in Europe was a speck in Peter Quinn's eye. Someone should lift the phone. Come back Peter, what do we tell the Yank? 
