sport gaa
{ John Greene 
    July 30 2017 04:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/john-greene-the-gaa-boasts-22-of-the-25-largest-stadia-in-the-country-but-is-under-threat-35980790.html }
It was in ways the perfect marriage. An Irish wedding; a gathering of the tribes. A pristine band in a pristine venue. A celebration of Modern Ireland, with all the rough edges dutifully hidden away; a night of nostalgia to momentarily reflect on where it all went wrong before dusting down a 30-year-old album and proudly proclaiming in one voice, 'We're back, Baby'. This was a different sort of homecoming. This was a night for the VIPs and the corporate boxes; for the €200 tickets and the car passes. It was the night when the roar of approval from the Squeezed Middle for that old rocker Michael D, perched high up in the Hogan Stand, might have persuaded our President that another seven years in the Park is on the cards. It was the night when Ireland came out to play. It was nothing like 1987, the last time The Joshua Tree was aired in Croke Park. U2 had some rough edges then, the rickety old stadium had even more. Back then it had taken two June nights in Croke Park to satisfy the country's needs, along with separate shows in Belfast and Cork in what was presumably a nod to how difficult it once was to get around this island. In the year U2 released The Joshua Tree, Charlie Haughey became Taoiseach again after the Fine Gael-Labour coalition collapsed, Johnny Logan made history when he won a second Eurovision, and the Republic of Ireland qualified for a major championship for the first time. It was also the year of Enniskillen, and hospital closures, and job losses - and it was the year an All-Ireland hurling semi-final was played in Dundalk in front of fewer than 5,000 people. Ireland still hadn't found what it was looking for. The Ireland of today is a different place. We can move around easier thanks to our road network, and a show that once took four nights can now be condensed into one. This was U2 now. And it was the GAA now - a reminder of how far, and how fast, the Association has travelled in 30 years as proud owners of Ireland's last great cathedral. It has welcomed super powers from the world of soccer and rugby, and the British Queen. Mass has been said there; Bruce, Beyoncé and One Direction have performed there. Croke Park has always been a go-to spot for sport, religion and culture - even more so since it was completely rebuilt. As Mike Cronin and Roisín Higgins point out, the stadium is "an iconic site in Irish life" and the country's "most historically significant" sporting venue. I once asked a sport historian from Boston, whose only experience of a game in Croke Park was an All-Ireland semi-final in the late 1970s, what were his memories of that day and, apart from the stench of urine, he remembers the stadium being massive, primitive and alive. When he visited again last year, it took his breath away. The GAA just doesn't do 'rickety' anymore. Most of its principal county grounds are now fit for purpose after an ambitious programme of upgrades over the last 20 years or so, coinciding with a period when clubs all over the country have also enhanced their facilities. Ironicallly, on the day Bono lent his support to Ireland's bid to host the Rugby World Cup in 2023 - which would see the final played in Croke Park - the new Páirc Uí Chaoimh hosted its first major game. In total, nine of the 12 venues which have been included in the rugby bid belong to the GAA and the Cork venue may play host to a semi-final. It has been completely rebuilt, just as Croke Park was, at a cost of €80m or so. Next up is Casement Park in Belfast, which is also part of the bid. The £80m redevelopment has had numerous planning setbacks but the GAA remains confident that it too will be ready in time for 2023, should Ireland's bid be successful. The GAA now owns and operates 22 of the country's 25 biggest grounds and when Casement Park is finally rebuilt it will own the largest stadia in this island's three largest cities. Not that all is perfect. Structural issues with a stand at Pearse Park in Longford must be dealt with and are in hand, but counties like Meath, Louth, Kildare and Waterford are lagging behind. Yet the question has to be asked: have these counties missed the boat, and is it time for the GAA to change its focus for now? Should the Association now say, 'what we have, we hold'? Problems around club fixtures and the high drop-out rate among adult players have been well highlighted, and are dealt with elsewhere this week, but these are not the only threats to the GAA's position in the Irish sporting hierarchy. Soccer has been gradually moving towards a summer programme while rugby has also been infiltrating so-called GAA heartlands with clever development strategies, especially in Leinster. A recent report found that there are 20 fewer GAA clubs in Leinster, outside of Dublin, than there were 40 years ago, despite a massive population increase in the province. A major advantage both soccer and rugby have at grassroots level is their ability to provide certainty to players about when and where games are played. They can set out fixture programmes for a season which are largely adhered to, and which can make them a more attractive proposition to many people. The GAA is not doing likewise. Ultimately the GAA is in the business of providing games to men and women, and boys and girls and perhaps it has now reached the point where investing in facilities - and especially in major, costly redevelopments - needs to be put on hold in favour of bolstering its presence on the ground. Perhaps games development, and not ground development, is where the GAA's money should be directed for the time being and if that means a few high-profile venues are left hanging for a few years then so be it. Given the quality - and quantity - of venues across the country it's not really a burning issue in the Association at this moment. The GAA's burning issues lie elsewhere: re-connecting with the grassroots; restructuring championships which are clearly not fit for purpose; making football and hurling accessible to all, and so on. This is where the GAA needs to focus more of its attention, and its money. The rest can wait. Sunday Indo Sport 
