sport gaa
{  
    November 19 2015 01:32 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/sport/from-nebraska-to-the-wicklow-hills-34209935.html }
Where were you born? I was born in Missouri and quickly moved to the most central state in the US, Nebraska. It wouldn't be described as a holiday destination and there are only a couple major cities there and we lived six hours away from them. Tell us about your early life? I had a very rural upbringing. I spent summers working on my uncle's farm with my best mate and cousin, Kevin. My childhood was typical for the area. I spent hours in nature with my dog, fished and hunted. I was given my first shotgun for my eighth birthday and used it constantly. That sounds totally mad to me now, but that's how it was in rural Nebraska. Were you a sporty child? What sports did you play? If not, what were your interests? I loved all types of sports growing up, but the only organised team sport to play was baseball. My dad, brother and myself built a baseball diamond on the farm and practiced every day the weather permitted. My brother and I eventually became very good. I was the oldest of three kids. My brother Alan was next followed by the smartest person in the family, my sister Julie. I would set a statistical record in baseball for batting average or homeruns and Alan would come along a few years later to break it. He was, in the end, a much better baseball player. My best sport as a teenager was basketball. I started with a proper team at age 10. Because I was tall and had a bit of coordination I played on the 12 year olds team. I was a stand out player for the next seven years until college. My town was very small as were all the surrounding towns, so I was 'the big fish in a small pond.' That changed in college. I was one of the shortest players on scholarship and learned how to watch a game from the side line for a few years. I became a student of the theory and tactics of the game and that is a major reason Gaelic suits my eye I think. Who were the biggest influences in your early years and how did that influence manifest itself? My extended family and coaches were the main influences in my life. My uncle was a saint of a man and worked super hard as a farmer. I considered being a farmer because of him until his son, Kevin, was tragically killed in a farming accident. My coaches taught me how to accept criticism in a constructive way and become a more disciplined athlete and improve to the best of my ability. Describe your High School and college years in terms of sport and studies and fun. As I said before in High School I was the big fish and an all star, but in college that wasn't the case. I played the roll of a substitute and made up the numbers in training. I knew at this point that I was going to be a doctor of chiropractic and studied pre-medicine in college. My classes were hard but college was great. I went to two colleges to get the necessary classes for graduate school. My favourite one is the same college my youngest daughter attends and I switched from basketball to baseball there. I was a pitcher and first baseman for Hasting College and enjoyed more success there than I did at the previous college I attended to play basketball. Sport plays a massive part of the college process if you can get a scholarship. I attended Palmer University for my doctoral degree later and then progressed on to Spinology college in both Australia and Spain. Was there a connection with Ireland prior to your move over here? The connection to Ireland was very subtle and not conscious, but very ubiquitous. My favourite basketball team was always the Boston Celtics and I also kept an eye on the 'Fighting Irish' of Notre Dame college football team for no apparent reason. As I mentioned earlier my cousin Kevin was killed at age 12 so for my confirmation name I chose St. Kevin and found out later he was an Irish saint. And, I suppose this might sound funny, but I had a massive attraction to redheaded girls. Ha Ha. How did Wicklow come into the equation? I met my wife in Australia and we were married in the States, but never really settled or were happy there. She had green card difficulty that saw her living in Ireland for 18 months waiting for the paper work to come through so we could be together in the US. I visited Ireland every two to three months during this time and fell in love with everything about it. I just felt like I fit in and could be myself. My perspective on global politics and guns and life in general shifted massively when I lived in Australia. World travel most definitely changes a person for the better. My wife was born and raised in Ballybrack and her father dated a lady from Greystones that I got to know very well. We were on a holiday here in 2006 and I looked into regulations for Spinology. We made the decision to move 'home' on that holiday and 40 days later we returned. We didn't have a place to stay immediately as rents were Celtic Tiger prices so we moved in with the lady from Greystones and immediately settled. I started work a week after we moved here and fell in love with Wicklow. We've travelled all over this beautiful and wonderful country, but if we were given a choice we'd live where we do. We just got lucky there. Had you a knowledge of Gaelic games prior to arriving? If so, describe what you knew? Gaelic games were something I knew about, but not intimately at all. I stayed up late as a teenager in the US to watch Australian rules football and loved it. I just felt the ball was the wrong shape and if it was round it would be a much better sport. I took the daughter of my wife's cousin to a match in Croke Park in early 2007 and was mesmerised by the game immediately. I loved football straight away. My passion for hurling has been a steadily growing process as there is no game like it anywhere and if you don't grow up playing it is challenging to know exactly what you are seeing. The speed of play is unlike anything I ever saw as a youth. What was your first contact with Eire Og Greystones GAA club and Wicklow GAA as a whole? Describe the people you met and how it transpired? I opened my first Spinology office in The Milton Clinic in Greystones on a provisional three -onth lease in November 2006. I outgrew my one room there quickly and needed a larger facility with two rooms to facilitate new and existing clients. A client of mine was teaching yoga at Eire Og and said they were looking for a full time tenant. The two rooms on the first floor were perfect and I had a view overlooking the main pitch to watch training every Tuesday and Thursday. We initially sealed the deal with a spit and a handshake and I began there the following day. John Keane was the football manager and a client of mine and I explained how Spinology could help the players. I began spinal maintenance on the Intermediate teams there and saw the niggles and strains of muscles decrease very dramatically over night. I travelled with the teams and checked every player before matches to ensure the best possible performance from each player. Many don't know about the connection between proper spinal alignment for proper nerve supply so the body functions better and the dramatic improvement in player performance. One person that did notice the difference was Harry Murphy, the Rathnew manager. Their physical therapist, Clifford Murphy, began to bring players up to see me and the same obvious results followed. My first match with the Villagers was a quarter final in the championship and I was in Aughrim for the first of hundreds of times. Trevor Doyle met me in the changing room and introduced me to the team. When Harry took the county position my transition from club to county was seamless and I was living the dream. What were your first impressions of Wicklow and the GAA community within? It took me a short while to understand the actual functioning of county teams and how the players play for the county they are from and don't transfer to other teams much like other sports do. I assumed going from damp cramped changing rooms at club level would see me going to 'Hilton Hotel' like facilities at the county level. I got a shock when our first county challenge match saw me in a shower room even smaller than many club matches. That's when I began to understand that this truly was an amateur sport, even at the top level. The ethos of the volunteer struck a chord with me and I loved how it was set up. I did my history and knew Wicklow were not in or near the top tear, but I didn't care. My passion for the Garden County blossomed with each match that first season with Harry's Army. Were there difficulties with accents or cultural idiosyncrasies and have you any tales relating to same? My wife and I have been together since 1999 and she wasn't shy about her banter or colourful use of the language. Certain terms such as 'craic' and 'feck' took a while to bleed into my use, but for the most part I was able to keep up in one on one conversations. A changing room full of players before training or matches is a totally different story. Half the time the banter is flying around at such a pace that I have no idea what is going on. The speed of wit is phenomenal and I really only notice it when I visit the US and see how slow the chat is there in comparison. Describe Wicklow GAA from your point of view, the people, the structure, the attitudes? Wicklow GAA are unfortunately minnows in the GAA realm. The hurlers are showing some promise at times, but on whole we are miles behind the top tier or even the middle tier. The people are certainly passionate and the club scene is thriving. The county level is a different story. I have heard a lot of criticism over the years about the structure and set up. Some of the proposed solutions seem valid and some are pie in the sky. The lack of any sustained breakthrough success of the senior teams leaves the attitudes of supporters fairly critical and they tend to focus on club more than county. Hopefully the success of our U-21 hurlers will tick over to the senior level. I witnessed the happiest time with the footballers in Croke Park in Harry's first year as division 4 champions. Can you see where improvements might be needed across football and hurling and would you have any suggestions relating to same? That is a question I won't touch with a 10-foot pole. Improvements are unquestionably needed. What are they? I'm not nearly qualified to suggest anything. Conversely, can you see where Wicklow GAA are getting it right? Wicklow are getting it right by taking on many of the professional type training that the top teams are using. The bond that forms between the Senior players for the lads county teams is very good. They may box the heads off each other at club level but they defend one another passionately for the county. Your work brings you in contact with Wicklow footballers and hurlers. Describe your business and explain how you got into that line of work? I've answered this question in parts all over this interview, but I'll explain how it worked under Harry Murphy and Casey O'Brien. A spinologist is trained to maintain healthy spines and assist with restoration of damaged spines. This is done to all players whether they have 'back issues' or not. It is easy to maintain a relatively healthy spine and a bit harder to work on damaged ones, but with regular maintenance the nerves going to the muscles work better so the muscles work as they should and strains are minimised dramatically so you have key players playing more and the work of the physios is greatly enhanced. I used to attend some training sessions and every match possible. When players were having issues I'd see them privately in the office. I did this during the entire time for both teams under Harry and Casey. Logically, if one team lining out has proper spinal alignment and good nerve function and the opposition doesn't, then the first team is at an advantage for sure. Many club teams use my services during the year. My personal business model is simple but unique. I don't charge per visit, but instead I charge a membership fee for families to join my practice. I check the entire family so their spines can be a fit as possible. This improves all aspects of life. I don't address specific symptoms because the body know how to heal itself if the nerves can work as they should. When the spine is aligned correctly the nerves that exit between the spinal bones have no pressure and function perfectly. My office is like a fitness facility for the spine. The more you come the fitter your spine will be. Charging for a single visit is like going to the gym for a single workout. I got into Spinology because as a doctor of chiropractic my spine was getting worse and worse between flare ups when I could be bed ridden. The same could be said about my patients. I was looking for a profession that could provide maintenance as opposed to treatments. Spinology was that profession. I began in 1998 and have loved every minute of it ever since. Judging by your social media persona you are a very proud father of your daughter, Sage, who plays volleyball back in the U.S. What level does your daughter compete at and is it difficult to be so far away from family? And do you have any other children? I'm immensely proud of all three of my children. Abbygayl and Sage live in the US close to their mother. Abbygayl, who is my eldest child, was a brilliant volleyball player but lacked the size to make a massive impact. She now coaches the future superstars. Sage is 6'1" and is a beast on the court. This is her first year of college and she is dominating for Hastings College. I get to watch her matches online streaming at ridiculously early hours here. I'm lucky to have that. My son and I went to the US this summer to watch her play in the National Tournament in Orlando where her team got second place in the entire US. I coached my son in U-8s football for a while at Eire Og and he's talented at whatever he does, but for now his interests lie outside organised sports. This year the Eire Og footballers reached the SFC semi-final where they were defeated by Rathnew. You work in both camps. What was that like as an experience? Was there slagging and plenty of banter? This was a situation that I knew would eventually happen when we went up to the senior division. And I was dreading it to say the least. I'm great friends with the players and management of both teams. Thankfully the weather cooperated and I was able to set up my Spinology table outside and the players from both teams got checked in a fairly organised manner. There was some good natured banter but everyone got on well. I was adamant that there was to be no dirt but assumed they'd just ignore me and go after it anyway. It turned out to be a very clean contest which I was grateful for. I told the Rathnew lads that I would be their enemy from throw in, put it on hold at half-time to help anyone, and hate them again for the last 30 minutes. They all understood and expected nothing less. Can you see Eire Og reaching the pinnacle of either the football or hurling in the county? I can most definitely see both teams achieving the top level of success to be county champions many times over. They are just about there now. Both teams have youth on their side and the last two seasons have been a brilliant learning curve. Sure, they have unlimited access to a team Spinologist, ha ha. They are the only club in Ireland that can say that except for Rathnew, and they have had a good run recently too. Maybe there really is something to this spinal maintenance. Ha ha. Drawing from your experiences in Wicklow would you care to name and describe the people who have had a meaningful and memorable impact on you from within Wicklow GAA? My gratitude for the Mayo man here in Greystones, John Keane, can't be expressed enough. He tolerated my ridiculous questions like if Chester might play for Kerry or Killkenny someday, or why don't they go for goal on every attack? He explained the subtleties of the game until I could see what he was saying. Dr. Brendan Cuddihy has been doing the same for me with hurling and teaching me how to care for players during a match. I golfed many rounds with the Carlow man Noel Bambrick and again he tolerated loads of silly questions to educate me. Bobby Dignam may as well live at the Rathenw facility as he is always there doing something vital for the club. Harry Murphy and Casey O'Brien have already been mentioned and I have to mention Don Hyland from Carnew and our endless conversations in the office. The same has to be said for Billy Cuddihy. Phillip Smullens from here in Greystones opened my eyes to many aspects to football and promotion that I'm grateful for and Ray Berry has really helped deepen my understanding. Patsy Vickers has shown me what a life long club man is and he's a local legend. David Murray, PRO for Wicklow, and even the photographer Dave Barrett have been part of my evolution here. In terms of GAA, when you think of Wicklow, what comes to mind? When I think of Wicklow in terms of GAA I think of passionate clubs. I wish I could say I think of county success, but that has yet to be established. Croke Park appearances for hurlers and footballers is great and a dream come true for me, but for now Wicklow is a club orientated county in my opinion. What players impress you the most on the field of play in both hurling and football? When this is done I'll kick myself for leaving players off, but I'll try. Hurlers: Leighton Glynn, Stephen (Chester) Kelly, Billy Cuddihy, Don Hyland, Bosco, Anto Byrne, Christy Moorehouse, Mikey Lee and John Henderson. Football: Leighton Glynn, Stephen (Chester) Kelly, Darren Hayden, James Stafford, Jack Tanner, James Lenoard, Alan Byrne, Anthony McLaughlin, Seanie Furlong and John McGrath. What has been the highlight, the stand out moment, of your experience within Wicklow GAA? The club highlight was winning the county and Leinster titles with Eire Og. The county highlight was winning the Division 4 title on the hallowed ground of Croke Park. A minor highlight was beating Darmuid Connoly and Dublin in the O'Byrne cup in Parnell Park. Where do you see Wicklow GAA, realistically, in 10 years time? The clubs are putting in massive effort in the juvenile level so hopefully we can get out of the basement in football and keep creeping up the hurling ladder. 10 years is not a long time in GAA as I'm learning these days so without a massive change at the county level in structure and function it's hard to be overly optimistic. Where would you like Wicklow GAA to be in 10 years time and could you suggest any means of achieving that goal? I think this is another one of those questions that could get me in trouble. Ha ha. Everyone I talk to seems to think a total overhaul from the top down might be necessary to move forward, but I'm not here long enough to say whether that is a valid assessment or not. Running plays a huge part in your life? Can you discuss your passion for it and what it gives you in return? I began to run early in 2012 because I had become unfit. I hated every step for three months. Then the Wicklow kit manager Ciaran Byrne signed me up for the Dublin Marathon for the Wicklow Hospice. I did it, but was crippled afterword. I manged to raise over €1200.00 from my generous clients and said never ever again. I now run at least four times per week with a long run on the weekend. I have completed 15 marathons to date and 12 of those have been this year alone. Two of those are over 39 miles and are called Ultras. The return is immeasurable. Only as a young man have I been so fit. Life is better if you are fit and healthy. I have a 50 mile race in the Wicklow mountains in December. Fingers crossed it all goes well. One thing that's very noticeable about you is your energy and enthusiasm? Is that purely natural or do you consciously work on diet and sleep and the likes to keep you healthy and can you share some of your philosophical outlooks on life? I have extensively studied nutrition and human physiology. I don't just accept what the 'experts' say because many times they are getting brow envelopes to say what they say. I do the research. I'm a strict vegetarian as are my entire family, I get good sleep and nap if I get a chance, I drink at least three litres of water per day and my philosophy is simply to be kind to those around you so you can get that in return hopefully. I am unrelenting in pointing out illogical stances on all sorts of subjects like health, nutrition, drugs/vaccines, guns and harmful politics. I do love a cup of Barrys with a drop of milk and a Happy Pear cappuccino, and I do like a few pints. Overall, can you describe what living in Wicklow means to you? Living in Wicklow for me is living a dream. Its beauty is second to none. The people are great. The membership fee system I have in my practise lets me really get to know my clients as I see them at least twice per week for many months. My daughters love their bi-annual visits here in their second home and I couldn't imagine a better place to raise a son. The GAA has opened so many doors for me and running has let me see places many people that have lived their lives here have never seen. I can see Bray Head from my window and run over top of it at least twice a month. I feel truly blessed to be here. Do you have a favourite part of the county? If so, where and why? The Wicklow Way has become my favourite part of the Garden County. My son and I have begun camping trips so I can see us out there many times in the coming years. Finally, what are you plans for the future? What goals do you have and what are you determined to achieve in the years to come? My plans are to practise Spinology here until I'm old and can no longer do it. My son Gabriel has indicated that he wants to take over the business later. It would be a dream come true to spend the days side by side with him caring for our clients. I will of course celebrate for at least a week when Eire Og bring home the Miley Cup, and I hope to run a few mountain races that are at least 100 miles in length. But, if life stays just as it is now, I'm one lucky fecker! You can learn more about Michael and his work on www.thespinecentre.ie Wicklow People 
