sport gaa
{  
    January 12 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-dubs-wide-of-mark-in-promotion-26019887.html }
FOR the past 20 years or so, there has been an on-going contest all over Ireland between Gealic games, soccer, rugby and basketball for the attention of young people. The GAA had been spoiled for its first hundred years, particularly in rural Ireland, because the first natural allegiance of youngsters was to their games. Very often, there was no choice anyway and of course up to 1971, if anybody played or watched soccer or rugby they were suspended from the GAA. All that has now changed and most teenage boys with an aptitude for sport take part in at least two sports regularly. Dublin city was always an area where soccer was more popular than Gaelic football, but the fact that the majority of secondary schools promoted Gaelic games tended to disguise this fact. But that too has changed in recent times and all schools now offer several sports. So, in Dublin, it is true to say that the GAA faces it's toughest battle with the other popular sports. Therefore, promotion of Gaelic games is, or should be, absolutely critical. The GAA has recognised this by allocating unprecedented amounts of money for games development in Dublin city and county in the past few years. In that context, it was amazing to hear last week that the Dublin County Board will be staging their opening National Football League game in two weeks' time in Parnell Park rather than in Croke Park. That game is against the All-Ireland champions, Tyrone, with all their star players and the razzamatazz that champions always bring with them. Last year, Dublin also drew the then All-Ireland champions, Armagh, in their first league game and over 54,000 people turned up to watch it in Croke Park. It was generally agreed that this was a spectacular promotional success for the GAA in Dublin and no less than 14,000 schoolchildren attended and were granted free admission. By any standards, this was a huge publicity coup for those dedicated people in Dublin, national school teachers in particular, who are the ones who have to fight the good cause for the GAA at underage level in what has often been a hostile environment. When the fixtures were made for this year's National League and Dublin were pitted against Tyrone in the opening round on Sunday week, most people assumed that the game would once again by played in Croke Park where another huge crowd could be expected for Tyrone's first serious game since they won the Sam Maguire Cup last September. But last week, the Dublin County Chairman, John Bailey, confirmed that the game would be played in Parnell Park which has a capacity of about 11,000. "Nobody approached us about playing the game in Croke Park, so we are using our normal home venue, Parnell Park," Bailey was quoted as saying. This is an astonishing decision in the light of the dramatic success of the Armagh game last year. Of the 14,000 children who were at that game, it is doubtful if 1,000 of them will be in Parnell Park. Surely, the initiative for playing the game in Croke Park should have come from Dublin? How do the teachers go about explaining to the disappointed kids that they will not be going on a glamour trip to the magnificent Croke Park stadium this year? And how impressed will the parents of these children be with the GAA in Dublin at the news? This was a massive promotional opportunity for the GAA in Dublin which they seem to have decided to turn their backs on. This comes at a time when the GAA at Central Council and Leinster Council level is prepared to invest millions each year in an effort to make the GAA stronger in the capital. I have often written that in the GAA, the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing. You can sing that! I could understand that possibly the management of the Dublin football team would prefer to play Tyrone in Parnell Park - certainly, I would. Even since it was splendidly refurbished, the pitch is still smaller and tighter than Croke Park and Dublin would probably expect to cope better with the champions there. It is also their training ground and they would reasonably expect to have a psychological advantage playing there. That's fair enough, but the bottom line is if the GAA is going to progress further in Dublin, then every part of the GAA should be prepared to contribute to the effort. That would mean that the county footballers should be prepared to forfeit playing in Parnell Park for this one game if it was going to do something for the greater good of the GAA's promotion work in the capital. They may well be quite happy to do so, we have not been told. The 'explanation' that nobody asked Dublin to change venue to Croke Park is facile. Surely the onus was on Dublin to take the initiative as regards staging a major promotional event that would have a special resonance for the schoolchildren which Dublin GAA should be so anxious to encourage into their fold? We are all aware of the awesome financial statistics that are attached to staging games in Croke Park. We are told that a crowd of around 30,000 plus is necessary to just break even because of the huge costs in staging a game at the giant stadium. Therefore even a 40,00-50,000 crowd at Tyrone v Dublin might not be very financially rewarding, but surely the promotional effect far outweighs the profits on a single National League match. Anyway, less than a third of gate receipts from National League games go directly to the home county, so Dublin would not be losing much, if anything, by playing the game in Croke Park. Of course, failing to capitalise on promotional opportunities is not confined to Dublin GAA. Every week of the championship season, some county team managers do so by not allowing their players talk freely to the media. Many of them also refuse to name correct teams in advance for the major games which is denying supporters information which they, as the paying public for GAA games, are entitled to. Promotion how are you! For an organisation that is in such stern competition with other sports, the GAA has some strange ideas about promoting itself. POSTSCRIPT: Yesterday, in weather conditions that would have tested Arctic explorer Tom Crean, I watched Seán Boylan start his 22nd year as Meath manager when his side travelled to Dromard to play Longford in the quarter-final of the O'Byrne Cup. Only in the GAA could you find a situation where a small club ground like Dromard on the Longford-Leitrim-Cavan border could, in the space of seven days, have two of the greatest team managers in history, Boylan and Mick O'Dwyer who have won 12 All-Irelands between them, on active duty on their pitch. Somehow, you could never imagine the two Sirs, Bobby Robson and Alex Ferguson, officiating at games in lowly soccer grounds in the north of England. Boylan fielded a largely new-look team and won handily. He certainly seems to have unearthed at least one new, exciting forward in Brian Farrell from Nobber who among other things scored a few excellent frees. Interesting to note that he kicked them off the ground. I wonder will this catch on? eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
