sport gaa
{  
    November 23 2008 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/gaa-has-to-face-pay-reality-26494339.html }
They came to the door the other night. It was the kind of dirty, rainy, windy night which makes you pray for global warming. They'd come from Kealkil, about an hour's drive away, which is a pretty routine journey for men engaged in this kind of work. They told us they'd left home at around nine that morning. The day before they'd gone as far as Rathmore in Kerry. This information was furnished not in any self-glorifying or pitying way. In fact, the duo were in high spirits. They always seem to be in high spirits, these men who turn up at the door selling tickets to raise funds for their GAA club. Whether they come from Kealkil or Barryroe or Goleen or any of the other little clubs who've despatched their representatives out to this headland in the last few years, there's never a complaint out of them. You get the feeling that being asked to traipse all over the country selling tickets is not a duty but a privilege. They sell those tickets to build sports complexes, stands or dressing rooms. They're always from GAA clubs because no other sport inspires the kind of devotion that makes hard-working people give up their precious evenings and weekends for the often thankless task of going door to door. I handed over the money and closed the door. The lads from Kealkil continued their mission on this dirty, rainy, windy night. The ticket sellers epitomise one vision of the GAA. There is another one, propounded by the GPA's Dessie Farrell when he told his association's annual get-together that it is "the players on whose backs the very funding which breathes life into the GAA is generated". You can't question Dessie Farrell's commitment to the GAA. I can remember him putting in huge efforts for Dublin and Na Fianna when you could tell by the way he moved that past injuries made getting around the pitch a painful process. He's also the author of an autobiography which I greatly admired and respected. Yet the fact is that Farrell's vision of the GAA is not just a different one from that which motivates the unpaid hawkers making their way round the countryside in the rain, it's a competing one. When Farrell, and the GPA, look at the GAA they see a cruelly exploitative relationship between the Association and its players. This is very different from the traditional view of the GAA as a communal and co-operative enterprise. I'm not sure that these divergent visions can be reconciled. Perhaps they can but it's striking that there's been no real debate on the matter. One reason for this is that the GPA can exhibit a lethal combination of indignation and self-righteousness when anyone has the temerity to disagree with the organisation. The trademark Farrell statement which treats doubters as enemies probably seems like a great idea when it's being drawn up but is ultimately sterile in terms of moving the debate forward. For their part, the GAA under Nickey Brennan has been content to keep the head down and give the impression that it wishes the GPA would simply vanish so that things could return to some precious prelapsarian state. The result is that we are asked to ingest toxic quantities of bullshit and pretend that blatantly false premises can be made true simply by saying that they are. We're supposed to swallow the line that government grants for the GPA "safeguarded the GAA's amateur ethos," in fact safeguarded it in such a way that would enable it to last forever. But it didn't. Anyone dealing in the realm of logic rather than that of wishful thinking could see that the acceptance of the players' right to be paid for the playing of the game is the start rather than the end of a debate on some form of professionalism. Elsewhere in Farrell's speech, he called on the GAA "to reach an agreement with the GPA and provide the funding that will enable us to cater for our players in key areas such as career development, employment programmes, health and wellbeing services, insurance and further education initiatives." If you look at what this actually means, it's a pretty remarkable demand. If we do Dessie Farrell, and we should, the courtesy of taking his statements at face value, it means he expects the GAA to provide money to help players develop their careers, find employment, keep not just healthy but "well", and enter further education. This would not just be a form of professionalism, it would be on a scale which dwarfs, for example, the aid received by an athlete who gets a lump sum from the Sports Council and then has to look after himself. It is a vision of the GAA as a kind of all-encompassing organisation, financially supporting its players in every aspect of their lives. It is a notion of the GAA as a welfare state. It's also a tall order. In fairness to Farrell, he has put some flesh on the oft-repeated statement that, "players need to be looked after". Perhaps a majority of GAA members would support the GPA position. But the problem is that there's no debate on these questions. The GAA simply don't engage with the GPA. They seem to think that if they neither agree nor disagree with them the GPA will simply wither on the vine. That's not going to happen. Dessie Farrell has put forward his vision of the future but Croke Park have no one willing to do the same. The only time the GAA has actually joined forces with the GPA was when they backed the government grants scheme. They looked like doing something similar last week in the wake of Martin Cullen's revelation that the scheme is in danger of being axed. Such alacrity only confirms the impression that, for the GAA, amateurism is when someone else pays your players. That's going to unravel in the long term at which time the GAA will have to face the possibility of forking out money to the players. Maybe the GAA should pay inter-county players by giving the GPA a percentage of championship gate receipts or by handing over the TV money. It's time for an honest debate on the situation. A debate including not just the likes of Dessie Farrell and Nickey Brennan but the likes of the lads who landed at the door the other night and suggested I might strike it lucky in the St Colums draw. The GAA is built on their backs too. thephotograph@hotmail.com 
