sport gaa
{  
    February 25 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/cash-22-gaa-in-tight-corner-26401484.html }
The Central Council will today be asked to support a proposal that the Government grant aid GAA players. It looks like a simple decision, but it could have major implications in the play-for-play debate that lies ahead Gaelic Games AS Central Council delegates head for their first meeting of 2006 in Croke Park today, they must surely be aware that they are faced with one of the most far-reaching decisions in the history of the GAA. They will be asked by the Gaelic Players' Association to offer unqualified support for a proposal that is designed to extract Government grants worth between ?1,000 and ?2,500 for 1,920 inter-county players from the 32 counties. The GPA chief executive Dessie Farrell, who is the players' representative on the Central Council, will outline full details of the plan which, if accepted by the Government, would cost around ?3.4 million annually. The GPA's case is based on a claim that while GAA players make enormous sacrifices in pursuit of excellence, their efforts are not recognised by the State, whereas those involved in sports that have an international dimension receive Government funding in the form of grants. Nor is Government support confined to amateurs who need funding to help them towards their dream of competing at Olympic, world or European level. Wealthy professionals are also indulged through a special income provision that allows them to spread their income tax liability over an extended period of years, rather than based on annual earnings. Effectively, it means that a golfer, athlete or international rugby player isn't assessed on a year-by-year basis for tax purposes, but can spread part of the liability into the future when their careers are over. The GPA has never criticised the arrangements for others, but are angry that despite playing such a central role in Irish life, GAA players are taken totally for granted. As members of an amateur organisation, there's no financial support accruing from the GAA while, up to now at least, the Government has shown little interest in supporting them. When the GPA suggested a few years ago that GAA players be given tax breaks, the Government told them that it wasn't possible under the legislation as it stood. It was the classic fob-off. The GPA were told to come up with an alternative proposal which they duly have, in the form of the grants scheme which Farrell will put before the Central Council today. He will ask them to support the plan so that when it's put to the Government, the GPA can point out that it has the total backing of their parent organisation, the GAA. It's a clever approach by the GPA, who know that they really can't lose on this one. The same can't be said for the GAA, however, which is why today's meeting will be very interesting. At face value, it might seem like an opportunity for the GAA to enthusiastically support the GPA's call for grants, knowing that if it won Government support, the exchequer would pay the ?3.4m price, while the association's amateur ethos remained intact. However, what happens in the very likely event of the Government rejecting a call to fund 1,920 GAA players? The GPA would then be perfectly placed to return to the GAA with a request that they fund the scheme from central finances. After all, if they support the GPA's plan, they are accepting that there's a need for a grants scheme, so they could hardly do a u-turn if the Government rejected the GPA demands. Meanwhile, if the Central Council refuse to endorse the GPA's case, they leave themselves open to accusations of plotting against their own players by not backing a claim for modest grants which wouldn't cost them anything. Privately, the GAA don't believe there is the remotest prospect of the Government agreeing to the GPA plan. Apart from the fact that it involves grant-aiding 1,920 players, there is the obviousIt's a clever approach by the GPA, who know that they really can't lose difficulty arising from whether players from the six counties would be eligible. However, it is the sheer scale of the scheme that would prove the biggest obstacle. In order to ensure a degree of equality, the GPA scheme envisages all hurlers and footballers from the 32 counties benefiting. At the lower end of the scale (see table) players would receive ?1,000 each, with the top performers being granted ?2,500 each. It's impossible to see the Government or the Sports Council agreeing to that. Grants have always been aimed at elite athletes who have a genuine prospect of reaching the top. With all due respects to the seriously weak hurling counties, there is no hope of them ever getting anywhere near elite level, yet their players would receive ?1,000 each, whereas some high-class performers in other sports receive nothing. Quite frankly, there is absolutely no prospect of the Government agreeing to that. Even if the Government agreed to fund the top GAA sides who by the GPA's claim, "extend themselves to unprecedented levels", it would lead to claims of elitism, based on geography rather than talent. For instance, an outstanding player from a weaker county could end up with just a ?1,000 grant because his team didn't make much progress, whereas a less talented performer from a stronger county would get ?2,500 because he was lucky enough to be part of a better squad. Apart from the specifics of the scheme, there is a degree of unease at Central Council level that the GPA initiative is part of a wider ambition to introduce a form of professionalism. The GPA wasted no time in letting it be known that they would be watching closely once the GAA started to bank big yields from renting Croke Park for soccer and rugby. The obvious implication was that players should share in the largesse in some form. Unquestionably, the grants suggestion is a clever tactic by the GPA because even if it fails at Government level, it may have manoeuvred the GAA into accepting that players need extra supports. That's wide open territory and if the GAA finds themselves isolated out there, it will be very difficult to duck for cover. That's why the Central Council is likely to attempt to buy time today. They are convinced that the GPA scheme is a non-runner at Government level, so why commit themselves to a proposal that has no chance of succeeding but which could leave the GAA exposed later on? The Government will be hoping the GAA don't support the GPA because that let would them off the hook on the basis that they could scarcely introduce a grants package without the backing of the parent organisation. If the Central Council refuse to endorse the GPA's case, they leave themselves open to accusations of plotting against their own players Of course, if the GAA support the GPA request, the Government will find technical loopholes to enable them to reject it, without actually looking as if they aren't interested in the welfare of the players. It's called politics and is especially relevant in the run-up to a General Election. The GAA have longer term concerns. They know that player rewards will be by far the most difficult issue over the next 5-10 years, so it's vital not to make any tactical mistakes now. Supporting a call to grant aid players may appear to have no long-term effects, but that's not the case as it acknowledges that there is a need for it. And if Government won't pay out the ?3.4m, will the GPA then make a formal demand to the GAA, on the basis that their Central Council backed the original idea? Expect this one to run long past today's meeting. 
