sport gaa
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    November 20 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rte-must-consider-pay-per-interview-on-tv-26104690.html }
IF there were any people out there who do not accept that  top GAA players have become commercial commodities in the past few years then the news that RTE are getting worried about the availability of players for interviews  should convince them. It seems that RTE are to seek, as part of any new live television contract with RTE, some form of condition in the contract that players would have to make themselves available for interview to RTE during live transmissions. The clear implication of this is that most players are not willing to talk to RTE at the present time. If RTE was a normal commercial operation in competition with several other television stations for GAA coverage they might have stood back and asked themselves this question: 'Why will top GAA stars not agree to be interviewed by RTE?' The answer might surprise them. But as far as GAA coverage is concerned RTE is a monopoly still and behaves like one. That is why they now seek to have the GAA instruct players to talk to RTE reporters. The old arrogance still prevails out in Montrose and the GAA themselves have contributed as much to that attitude as RTE have. Going right back to the foundation of RTE 40 years ago, the GAA got off on the wrong foot when they handed over live coverage of All-Ireland finals for a nominal sum and this situation lasted for many years. In their innocence, the GAA at the time thought they were on the pig's back when the late Micheál O'Hehir was appointed Head of Sport in RTE. A staunch GAA man at the helm, sure haven't we landed on our feet? Alas, it did not work out that way as the strings regarding sports coverage in the fledgling RTE were pulled by people other than O'Hehir. Ever since that the GAA has always negotiated with RTE on unequal terms. The television station knows that up to recently they were the only ones with the technical infrastructure and national coverage to provide live televising of GAA matches and they really used that power with a vengeance. BUT that was then and this is now. That position no longer obtains and if they don't realise that in the GAA then they need a crash course in modern media power structures. There is talk of the GAA and RTE doing another three-year deal which, if true, defies logic. There are monumental changes taking place in the world of televised sport and to sign a three-year deal with ANYBODY at this moment would be crazy. One year at a time should be the GAA's motto as we await digital television and God knows what else. But let's get back to the notion of RTE wanting player interviews stitched into the next contract. What this means in effect is that certain players will be railroaded into giving interviews on RTE whether they like it or not. Interviews on live match occasions are generally used to pad out and extend the live coverage after the game has ended. Such extensions mean that RTE can have more advertising breaks and rake in still more money from the live telecast - at the expense of the players being interviewed. If this comes about then it will simply be an extension of what has been happening since county jerseys started carrying advertisements. This turned the players into advertising hoardings just like the guy with a sandwich board advertising a fish and chip shop in O'Connell Street in Dublin. RTE's proposal will mean not only that the jersey advertiser gets even more television exposure but the player is being further exploited for commercial gain. And we can be certain that the player will be interviewed in front of a background covered with the logo of the sponsors so the interviewee will be giving the sponsor a leg up too. And then we still have all those virgin-pure idealists in the GAA preaching to players that the game can never be allowed to become professional. The players can never be paid. We all do it for the love of the organisation, and whatever you're having yourself. And you know, there are many intelligent GAA officials around the country who really believe this load of codswallop and believe that the players are actually swallowing it too. At present we have a players' organisation blessed by Croke Park and led by Jarlath Burns and we have the GPA led by Dessie Farrell and blessed by nobody in the GAA. If either of these bodies is to have an ounce of credibility with present or future GAA players they must ensure that this exploitation of players stops immediately. THIS RTE proposal is only the latest step along the route of exploitation. Not every GAA player tolerates - let alone enjoys - being used as an advertising billboard. It may be fine for soccer or rugby players whose huge salaries are being part-financed by jersey advertising but GAA players are simply being exploited as they get very little if anything back. Now if RTE are serious about padding out their live coverage with player interviews they could consider offering £1,000 for each such interview and the GAA could ensure that such money would be dispersed in accordance with their new rules about player promotion earnings. It is interesting that RTE television seem to have problems getting players for interview while in general the newspapers and radio do not. I wonder why that is? Do RTE wonder why that is? On the general question of players and the media there is no doubt that modern team managers have behaved disgracefully by often banning their players from talking to the media before big championship games. Some of them do it with an official ban but most do it in a more insidious manner by instructing players privately. The implication is that GAA county players are not capable of talking to a journalist without making a fool of themselves. What nonsense. A look back over the past decade will remind us that the major cock-ups in media interviews have nearly all been provided by team managers not players. It is hard to believe now that in the week before the 1982 All-Ireland final between Offaly and Kerry, journalist David Walsh, then with the Sunday Tribune, actually took part, loosely, in a full Offaly training session including the team-talks, talked to as many players as he wished and the world did not come to an end that evening. Offaly won the All-Ireland and Walsh never looked back since! The availability of players for interview in the lead-up to a big game is a totally different situation to their availability to be interviewed on live television on the day of the game. The first in no way exploits the player but the second certainly does. Hopefully the GAA will at last recognise the distinction and tell RTE to get lost if it tries to tie interviews into contracts.E-mail: emcgee@hotbot.com 
