sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    December 14 2009 04:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eugene-mcgee/eugene-mcgee-internet-wild-west-show-a-major-worry-26591330.html }
One of the great inventions of our time, the internet, has led to a marked deterioration in the quality of sporting behaviour among some GAA followers. I am referring to message boards, blogs, etc on the World Wide Web that have swamped GAA dialogue in the past few years. With this in mind, I notice that a few county secretaries even mentioned this new phenomenon in negative terms in their annual reports -- and with very good reason. 'Having the craic' is a unique Irish expression and one that is at the very cornerstone of GAA existence. Possibly the most important commodity in the life of GAA followers is the camaraderie that exists among all the various components of the Association, many of whom are long-standing rivals at club and county level. This means that the chats, debates, verbal rows, teasing, and wisecracks represent an important component in the GAA. Of course the games are important and so too are the provision of stadiums and rows about rule changes and the election of GAA officials. But the one overriding aspect of the GAA that maintains the virility of the organisation in every corner of Ireland and beyond, is our ability to have the banter and verbal skirmishes with all kinds of other GAA people at all levels, from top to bottom. One of the best examples of this can be seen at matches when opposing followers mingle, without pitched battles or violence of any physical kind such as we have often witnessed at soccer games in England and elsewhere. The quality of discourse in the stands or on the terraces is much more edifying than with many other sports. Put simply, the banter that takes place at GAA games is an integral part of these occasions and this is largely because GAA teams have clearly defined geographical areas such as counties and parishes. So, we can easily identify those we want to indulge in a little bit of slagging with -- we know who the other crowd are and it is never too hard to 'rise' them. But with the ready availability of internet use, unfortunately things seem to be changing somewhat and not for the better. Obviously, professional journalists -- like myself -- are in a difficult position in relation to criticising this sort of internet activity. "Sure aren't you always spouting out about GAA things, so you can hardly talk," they say. But there are critical differences between a professional media person's activity and that of some internet users. The journalists who attach their name to a published match report, preview or other material in a newspaper are very different to the hundreds of bloggers etc who do not sign their names to the material they publish, preferring instead to use fictitious names to retain their anonymity. People are perfectly entitled to behave in this manner, provided they do not break the laws of the land and, in fairness, the GAA bloggers are simply replicating what is happening with countless millions of people all over the world. There are internet sites in every corner of Ireland and wherever GAA people are located around the world. Many GAA clubs organise their weekly lotto draws through the internet and publicise their events the same way. Thus, many will regard all use of the internet as good for the GAA, because it adds greatly to the transmission of information. And, for as long as I can remember, GAA people have been complaining about "poor coverage" of GAA matters in newspapers. The problem arises when a very small number of these anonymous contributors besmirch the vast majority of their cohorts and avail of their anonymity to make scurrilous, nasty, personalised attacks on players or officials. I am not a major user of GAA websites, but I have scanned through samples from various counties on occasion and I was shocked at what I have read. The laws of libel, defamation, etc, by which journalists are obliged to abide, are ignored under the cowardly protection of anonymity. The levels of personal abuse often published on websites break the laws of 'incitement to hatred' regularly and, from the GAA's point of view, they represent a real danger. Some of this putrid behaviour is already contributing to the growth of abusive comments by sections of spectators at major games in which leading players are targeted, soccer-style, with disgusting verbal attacks. There are two GAA sites that I do use because they are well controlled, monitored by the people in charge and provide useful contributions to the GAA media scene. These are Hogan Stand and An Fear Rua, both with Meath connections, but we can hardly hold that against them! I'm sure there are several other good sites also, but most people I know just follow one or two. The internet is like the Wild West was in days of yore with regards compliance with the laws of the land. For the tiny minority of web users who behave in this manner, the internet is a coward's charter.  Asinine These people would never have the courage to stand up at a match or a meeting and describe a GAA person like they do in these anonymous messages. Their asinine behaviour is totally alien to the way GAA people for decades have enjoyed the cut and thrust of giving out, complaining and suggesting how things could be done differently without having rows. The internet has been hugely beneficial for the GAA and the vast majority of website contributors have great fun and add to the gaiety of the nation with their comments and rivalry. However, it will be very sad if a tiny percentage misuse this medium to spread bile and hatred against other GAA members -- including players. Irish Independent 
