sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    July 27 2017 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/sport-ireland-and-gaa-in-robust-exchange-over-brendan-osullivan-doping-case-35972262.html }
The GAA and Sport Ireland have clashed over the doping case involving Kerry footballer Brendan O'Sullivan, who served a 21-week ban after testing positive for a prohibited substance. John Treacy, the Sport Ireland CEO, has written to the GAA expressing a view that a conflict of interest can arise when a county board backs a player facing a doping charge to the hilt in a case being prosecuted by the GAA. The matter was discussed at a recent meeting of the GAA's Management Committee, where dissatisfaction was expressed at the approach taken by Sport Ireland. "The committee did not accept the view of Sport Ireland that a 'county board taking the side of a player and providing assistance to the player to discharge legal and other fees in order to defend the case' conflicts with the obligation on the GAA to prosecute the case vigorously," notes the Management Committee minutes, which have been seen by the Irish Independent. It's understood that the GAA made its position clear to Sport Ireland, insisting that they always fulfilled their responsibilities under the anti-doping code. The GAA and Sport Ireland declined to comment on the row yesterday but  relationships are likely to be strained in the future.  Kerry fully supported O'Sullivan through a protracted case, which started when he failed a routine test after last year's Allianz League final.  Secrecy prevailed through a lengthy process, during which O'Sullivan was initially banned for seven months after Sport Ireland accepted it as a "contaminated product case" where he "bore no significant fault or negligence". O'Sullivan did not accept the sanction and the matter was referred to the GAA's Anti-Doping Hearings Committee, which imposed a 26-week ban.   He appealed that decision to the Irish Sport Anti-Doping Disciplinary Panel, which cut the suspension to 21 weeks. O'Sullivan could have been hit with a four-year ban but offered a robust defence at all hearings, where it was accepted that his offence was unintentional.  He had tested positive for methylhexaneamine (MHA), a substance he took on the advice of a friend.  Kerry nutritionist Kevin Beasley provided the panel with a caffeine gel, which had been checked for prohibited substances and contamination, but O'Sullivan disliked the taste. He substituted the gel with a caffeine tablet without clearance from Kerry's medical team, which led to the adverse finding against him after the 2016 League final.  News of the case didn't emerge until last May - 13 months after O'Sullivan failed the test - when the Sunday Independent broke the story. 
 
Close
 / Subscribe to The Throw-In, Independent.ie's weekly Championship podcast, for the best in GAA discussion and analysis every Monday, with some of the biggest names in football and hurling from Joe Brolly, Tomás Ó'Sé, Brendan Cummins and John Mullane. Subscribe and listen to The Throw-In podcast on iTunes or SoundCloud. Irish Independent 
