sport gaa
{  
    December 01 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/endgame-kicks-off-in-euro-2008-bid-26245793.html }
It's now or never if Taoiseach is to broker Croker deal and  save the Irish/Scottish pitch for soccer champs By JEROME REILLY EVEN in the strange world of sports politics it seems bizarre that the homely comforts of the Montague Hotel outside Portlaoise should be inextricably linked with the smoked glass, brushed steel sophistication of UEFA Headquarters in Zurich. But as the endgame approaches in the increasingly nasty multi-billion euro battle soccer championships the annual gathering of Laois GAA men held last night at the three-star hotel will provide UEFA with a significant hint of Irish indifference. Starting at 6pm, grassroots delegates had 17 motions to discuss at the midlands hotel and not one of them related to throwing open Croke Park to other sports or to making the stadium available on a one-off basis to host Euro 2008. The pleas of Bertie Ahern, Sports Minister John O'Donoghue, the business community, the sports council, the FAI and tens of thousands of ordinary soccer and sports fans did not matter one iota compared to the intricacies of the Laois Intermediate Hurling championship. Laois is the first county to hold its annual convention but between now and the New Year it's odds-on that the Croke Park's availability for soccer and other sports will be on the Clár of a number of county conventions. But with the Executive Committee of UEFA due to sit down on December 12 and sift through seven bids on the table the Croke Park conundrum remains the single greatest obstacle in securing the championships for Ireland and Scotland. Last Sunday in a bizarre and some might argue, mischievous intervention, the UEFA President Lennart Johansson abandoned a 12-year habit of uttering diplomatic nothings to the media. He decided that some plain speaking was in order and the UEFA President firmly put the boot into the joint Irish/Scottish bid mainly because of the "problem" of the Gaelic Athletic Association. Absurdly he also managed to link October's bloodbath in a Moscow theatre with the GAA Headquarters in the same sentence. He was asked by a Swiss-French newspaper whether the violent incidents surrounding the match between the Fenerbahce and Panathinaikos could have negatively affected the Greek-Turkey bid. "That's true," the UEFA president replied adding "and there was also this terrible hostage drama in Moscow. That will be taken into consideration for the final decision, as well as what is happening in Ireland. "We have to bear that in mind. Switzerland is building new stadiums and possesses long-lasting assets. Switzerland's chances are, therefore, very realistic." Less than 24 hours later Johansson attempted to withdraw his comments suggesting his answers had been twisted and appeared to "have been used to try and gain an unfair advantage for certain competing bids by demeaning other bids". Nevertheless the damage had been done and confidence in the Celtic bid was shaken especially since on the same day Johansson was sounding off in the Swiss media, Bertie Ahern was making promises to the Scottish press about the availability of Croke Park which he was not in a position to keep. He was quoted in this newspaper in a report of a briefing he gave to Scottish journalists in the following terms: "We have a few technical issues to resolve over time but we have also spelt out how that can be done. I think that we are deeply committed to the game. "We are well capable of doing this, and everybody is up for it. If we are successful in this bid, we will have two of the finest stadiums and unlike some other countries we won't have to wait to build them. Some of the bids are great proposals - but they have no built stadiums." Mr Ahern said he had formally written to the GAA requesting the use of Croke Park as a venue for the bid and Sports Minister John O'Donoghue upped the ante further. O'Donoghue insisted the Government was not wasting its time in appealing to the GAA even though no decision will be made until April when the supreme decision-making forum of the GAA, the Annual Congress, will be held. "I think that it would be appropriate if the GAA management were to say that they are in a position to recommend to Congress that Croke Park will be available in 2008. "We're not asking Croke Park or the GAA to make the facility available on a full-time or part-time basis to other sports. "All we are asking is that they make the facility available for four games in 2008 and in that regard to be mindful of the worth of this to the nation," he said. As the megaphone diplomacy continued from the Government side senior GAA sources said it was highly unlikely that the issue would be discussed by the management committee of the association this weekend. However, there is one window of opportunity before UEFA make a final decision on December 12th for senior figures in the GAA to indicate that they will support motions in relation to Euro 2008. That will come next Friday night when the Central Council of the GAA the most powerful administrative body below Congress meet at Croke Park for a monthly meeting. Though sources suggest that there is no firm indication that the matter will be on the agenda for the 49 members of the Central Council there is a possibility that discussion under "correspondence" may refer to the letter from the Taoiseach. Senior political sources are emphatic that by 2008 Croke Park will be open to other sports because of economic necessity. "It doesn't take a genius to see that if they don't open up Croke Park to other events and sports they will lose millions every year and that will mean that ground developments from the smallest parish to the provincial HQs will be hit. "In the meantime, because there is no indication of from GAA management that they will support congress motions the Celtic bid while still a front-runner in our view is not as strong as it should be," the source said. That spin suggests the Ireland-Scotland bid could fail because of GAA's insistence on maintaining the wide democratic process that gives the smallest parish club a voice in the association's affairs. Proponents of the Euro bid may be over-optimistic. As the economic downturn puts increasing doubts on a privately-built National Stadium (already minus JP McManus's ?62 million) and plans for a massive redevelopment of Lansdowne Road are dusted off for the umpteenth time, Croke Park remains the vital piece in the jigsaw. The Taoiseach Mr Ahern and Sports Minister John O'Donoghue would do well to re-read the initial response of GAA President Sean McCague uttered last September 10th when the Government finally buried the Bertie Bowl as a public project. Mr McCague stated that he could not understand how a bid could be made for a major soccer tournament without the necessary facilities available to accommodate it. Mr McCague pointed out that in August he put on record that "he considered the decision to include Croke Park as part of the Irish bid for the Euro 2008 Soccer tournament to be flawed on the basis that no commitment can be given that Croke Park will be available". At the time Mr McCague added: "The bid process was initiated and in the public arena without any consultation with the GAA and the solution to any problems that might arise lay solely with those who initiated the bid and supported it." 
