sport gaa
{ Colm Keys 
    August 31 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/dominant-dublin-the-growing-strength-of-the-blue-wave-38449307.html }
On the morning of the 1995 All-Ireland football final, Bertie Ahern was travelling from a commemoration in Wexford to Croke Park where Dublin were seeking a first title in 12 years against Tyrone. What struck Ahern, as he drove back up the main artery through Dublin's southside, was the dearth of flags, bunting and anything associated with a county participating in football's blue riband day. It was as if the game wasn't taking place for many. As Ahern would recall years later, it wasn't until he reached Liberty Hall, on the dividing line between the capital's north and south sides, that he laid an eye on a blue and navy flag. Kilmacud Crokes were reigning All-Ireland club champions, Ballyboden St Enda's were providing Dublin's midfield on the day but for the future Taoiseach and devout Dublin follower, the lack of engagement in parts of the southside was palpable. If Ahern was to retrace that journey today, he'd be sure to find a substantial difference. South Dublin is more engaged than ever. More and more, Gaelic games have become the games of choice for its middle classes. And Ahern, in his future role, played no small part in enabling that. To chart Dublin's extraordinary dominance through this decade, that sees them on the cusp of a historic five-in-a-row of All-Ireland football titles and a seventh in nine years, that has their ladies team in sight of three successive All-Ireland titles and has already witnessed Cuala win back-to-back All-Ireland club hurling titles in recent years, it is best to go back to the GAA's strategic report, put together throughout 2001 at the request of then GAA president Seán McCague and released in January 2002. Another former GAA president Peter Quinn was chairman and they made many wide-ranging recommendations. But in the public mind, only one has ever resonated from that detailed document - splitting Dublin. The Strategic Review Committee felt that with the growth in population, Dublin had become too big to administer and needed to divide to conquer. This would follow in football with two minor teams in the 2003 Leinster Championship, two senior teams in the 2004 national league before complete separation for the 2005 Leinster Championship. Expediency on this was promised too with Quinn suggesting that it was a 'national issue' and that decisions on it shouldn't necessarily rest with Dublin. Ironically, Dublin had not won any of the previous six Leinster football titles when the SRC put forward these proposals. But those who sat on that committee and had knowledge of the country's changing demographics knew what the future could potentially hold. To correspond with that, targeting better coaching and penetration of the capital's youth would also be prioritised amidst strong concern that the GAA was losing market share. "It is estimated that there are almost 500,000 children and young people under the age of 20 living in Dublin," the report read. "Recent research has indicated that fewer and fewer of those children are choosing Gaelic games as their preferred activity. The situation is further compounded by the fact that the main competitor organisations are investing significant amounts of money in marketing their games aggressively including in areas and schools where previously Gaelic games were the dominant sports. "The inadequate procedures used by local clubs in tracking players through the transition from primary to secondary school has resulted in many GAA players being lost to the GAA. There would appear to be a lack of interaction between schools and clubs with regard to players at this level." Dublin GAA never became a 'national' issue, its teams or administration hubs were never divided at the Liffey. But the GAA, in tandem with Dublin where progressive strides were being made anyway, did work hard to increase participation through funding and other initiatives, a fork in the road for which the outcomes and consequences are now clear. Leinster Council had initially set up an 'urban area scheme' but the implementation of the SRC recommendations on coaching was deemed so important that it was chaired by then GAA president Seán Kelly and had some of the association's other leading officials on board. When they sought Sports Council funding specifically for Dublin, they were pushing an open door into Ahern. Through a 2004 budgetary measure, an annual €1m grant was ring-fenced for games participation in the capital and by 2005, under the astute stewardship of Kevin O'Shaughnessy, they were ready to take off. With Leinster contributing €354,636 initially in 2005 (the provincial council has chipped in with €3.6m in the 14 years that the scheme has been operable) and the GAA at central level coming in with €20.28m over the same period, incorporating Sports Council money, Dublin has been in a position to operate on close to a coach-per-club basis to organise games and coaching and provide that school-club link that the GAA feared had been eroded. Games promotion officers work like recruiters on the ground for the GAA and also help to upskill volunteer coaches to work with these new recruits. Of course, clubs had to write cheques to cover half the fees in most cases, but the GAA's tender loving care in the middle of the last decade was a catalyst for extraordinary growth. By 2011, the original 'drive for five' had been fashioned as the senior footballers and hurlers, minor footballers and hurlers and U-21 hurlers all chased down All-Ireland titles to semi-final (senior hurlers) and final stage. It brought focus on the pet project and resentment, in Leinster more than anywhere, that Dublin was being given preferential treatment. But the success of teams in 2011 could hardly be attributed to the impact of the funding so quickly. That impact was being felt in numbers on the ground. In 2011 alone, in Dublin there was a 10pc increase in the number of hurling teams from U-8 to U-16, jumping from 546 to 602. In eight years (2003 to 2011), the number of hurling and football teams from U-8/9 to U-16 went from 620 to 1,359. Some clubs identified so much work for their games promotion officers that they hired a second one which they funded themselves. By the end of the year, Dublin produced its own strategic plan to cover the period from 2011 to 2017, Unleashing the Blue Wave, which spelt out how dominant they intended to be and how they intended to achieve it. That document called for funding for Dublin equitable with a province, a permanent seat on the GAA's management committee for its county board chairman and the appointment of a commercial team to maximise the Dublin brand and bring in an extra €3m over a six-year period in commercial revenue. "The level of funding that has traditionally been allocated to Dublin is considerably less than would be warranted based on any population, activity, or revenue analysis," the report warned. "It will require Central Council to embrace a different funding model, one which acknowledges the strategic significance of Dublin. Dublin GAA's plans, if they are to succeed, will need additional resources from Central Council to add to the increased funds to be targeted by additional investment in the Dublin brand and a refocused commercial sponsorship and fundraising drive." Throughout this decade the numbers have continued to spiral. As a project conceived from the GAA's vision of the future in 2002, it had been an outstanding success. But the law of unintended consequences is such that Dublin's dominance now threatens the GAA's county-by-county competitive structures like never before. A rising tide has lifted all boats. More youth participation has brought more people into the GAA's net in Dublin and opened a network that has led to even better coaching and of course commercial opportunities. When one prominent Dublin club ran a golf classic a few years back, they were able to draw 30 teams paying €6,000 each. Any other county might have to run it three times to make that kind of money. The price of land and building costs for infrastructure are significantly higher but even that is a different scale to what any other county can compete with. Only Kerry, with their US fundraising network, can come close. Dublin had already reeled off five successive Leinster titles when Vodafone took over sponsorship from Arnotts in late 2009, an arrangement who had been in place for 18 years. Towards the end of their association, Arnotts was thought to be paying around €600,000 but Vodafone moved that up to €800,000, increasing to an estimated €1m during the course of their four-year association. But by early 2013 they had signalled their intention to move on and later that year were replaced by AIG who are still in place and, according to industry estimates, pay between €900,000 and €1m per year before leverage. Scale and success has allowed Dublin to dwarf all other sponsorship and commercial arrangements, giving them added firepower. Cork were next best in 2018 with €400,000 from their sponsor Chill Insurance and a total commercial haul of just under €700,000 when jersey royalties, equipment and other sponsorships are taken into account. But that still pales into comparison to Dublin. When the Irish Independent did an analysis of 2017 commercial revenues for each county, Dublin were out on their own with €1.46m, courtesy of their AIG deal and associations with 13 other partners. That figure is down to nine now. Dublin have had everything from official non-alcoholic beer partners to airline partners throughout this decade. They've made good on the Blue Wave projection to build the brand across the codes and employ a commercial team to maximise it. Since 2014, former Dublin footballer Mossy Quinn has been commercial and marketing manager and for a while they had Mike Farnan, formerly with Manchester United, as a senior consultant. The question now is how much the current run of success can be equated with the investment made back in 2005 which has continued steadily to support a framework that is driving numbers through the gates of GAA clubs across the city. The core of this team - Brian Fenton, Ciarán Kilkenny, Jack McCaffrey, Paul Mannion - have been described as the 'class of 1993' - the year of their birth - and they played together right through underage level. It didn't take a games promotion officer to discover them while their natural talent was honed in development squads that had oversight from Dessie Farrell and input from Noel McCaffrey, Jack's father and a former Dublin footballer himself. But access to finance and expertise, strong connections exist with DCU which they use as their summer training hub, creates an elite environment that allows them to thrive and make the most of their talent. Dublin have routinely spent in the region of €1.5m servicing their inter-county teams through the decade, reaching a high of €1.7m in 2011. Other counties have gone further, including Galway last year with €1.8m, but with less travel and match accommodation to factor in during a championship summer, it leaves them a lot more to spend on the finer points of preparation. Of course, they have the calm authority of their manager Jim Gavin to propel them, too. Gavin's understated ways belie just how good a coach he has been in adjusting and innovating all the time. To be able to continuously bring down the average age of his team through 2017 and 2018 and keep the run going was quite the achievement. The money question for Dublin has become a sensitive, often polarising issue viewed through different lenses. The GAA have moved to strengthen financial support for other counties in recent years, investing in the east Leinster project to cover Louth, Kildare, Meath and Wicklow and their population growth areas on the other side of the M50. Even the presentation of financial distribution has changed in recent years to create a more balanced picture with provincial contributions now incorporated into central accounts. The amount of money in coaching and games development grants that Dublin have received since 2005 is eye-catching by comparison to other counties expected to then compete on a level playing field. Participation, not inter-county dominance, was the initial focus of the project in the first place. But the consequence of one has helped to create the other, however. Money, though can't be viewed as the only instrument of Dublin's success. It is an important part of a fiery chemical reaction in which good coaching, greater engagement with communities and geography play parts, but in which population, sheer weight of numbers, is now the biggest factor. When the architects of Dublin's aptly named strategic plan were putting it together, it was noted that almost 30pc of Irish births were in Dublin. The Central Statistics Office projected in January of this year that Dublin's population could be 1.76 million by 2036, almost a third of the country's population. That leaves the GAA with the dilemma of continuing to support participation gains through coaching funding that consequently can consolidate the dominance of their county teams. With these changing demographics, can potentially one-third of the population continue to be represented by one team and expect anything other than blue waves to come crashing over the rocks where the wreckage of so many other counties may be strewn? Indo Review 
