sport gaa
{  
    December 11 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/sport/other-sports/tipperary-gaa-scene-27445877.html }
INTER-FIRM ALL-IRELAND SUCCESS	Congratulations to BOI Lifetime (Nenagh) on winning the All-Ireland Inter-Firm Senior Hurling Final. They got the better of Larcon (Galway) in a close encounter last weekend on a scoreline of 2-11 to 0-16.  Meanwhile, in the Munster Junior Hurling Semi-Final, Tipperary representatives Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme lost to the Cork Guards by 2-8 to INTER-FIRM ALL-IRELAND SUCCESS Congratulations to BOI Lifetime (Nenagh) on winning the All-Ireland Inter-Firm Senior Hurling Final. They got the better of Larcon (Galway) in a close encounter last weekend on a scoreline of 2-11 to 0-16. Meanwhile, in the Munster Junior Hurling Semi-Final, Tipperary representatives Merck Sharp & Dohme lost to the Cork Guards by 2-8 to 1-4.  SCÓR NA nÓG COUNTY FINAL The County Final of Scór na nÓg was held last Friday night in Cashel. The winners were as follows: - Figure Dancing – Borrisoleigh; Solo Song - Dearbhla O'Mahony - Borrisoleigh; Instrumental Music - Borrisoleigh; Recitation - Martin Lee, JK Brackens; Ballad Group – Portroe; Question Time – Borrisoleigh; Novelty Act - JK Brackens; Set Dancing – Templederry. Congratulations to all who took part. The North Senior Scór Final will take place on Friday, February 6th, 2004 in the Western Pass, Ardcroney.  YEARBOOK The 2004 Tipperary Yearbook will go on sale in the coming week and will contain 224 pages (10 more than last year). This year’s production will see 120 pages in colour (up from 15 pages last year). The price of a10 is unchanged. The Yearbook Committee consists of Seamus King (Chairman), Liam O’Donoghue (Secretary), Ed Donnelly (County PRO), Seamus O’Doherty, John Costigan, John O’Grady, Jerry Ring, JJ Kennedy, Con Hogan, Liam Hogan, James Holohan and Micheál O’Meara.  BETTER LATE THAN NEVER At a function in Dundrum recently, Paddy Moloney received an All-Ireland Minor Hurling medal. This may not seem unusual except for the fact that the medal was won in 1952! Paddy played in every round of the competition in that season but was studying for the priesthood at the time and was unable to get released for the All-Ireland Final. Tipperary won the final over Dublin by 9-9 to 2-3 with Tony Wall accepting the Irish Press Cup afterwards. Paddy travelled home from England for the event and was presented with his medal by County Chairman Donal Shanahan.  FOOTBALL CHALLENGE GAMES A number of challenge games for the Tipperary Senior Footballers have been arranged. On Saturday next, December 13th, Tipperary will play the University of Limerick at UL at 12:00pm. Further games are scheduled with UCC on December 21st and Meath on January 4th (venues TBC). The Minor Footballers will play Waterford at 11:00am on Sunday next in Clonmel.  MUNSTER COUNCIL AWARDS The 2003 Munster Council Awards night will take place on this Thursday evening, December 11th in Limerick. Tipperary has won 3 of the 14 awards on offer. Eimear McDonnell of Burgess won the Camogie Player of the Year, Ger Coonan of Ballina won the Handballer of the Year while former Munster Council Chairman Michael Maher will receive a Special Merit Award. Well done to all concerned.  TIPPERARY PLAYERS EARN GAA SCHOLARSHIPS Six Tipperary players were included in the list of GAA Scholarships announced by the University College Dublin recently. Diarmuid Fitzgerald, Tommy Fitzgerald (both Roscrea), Colm Ryan (Moycarkey-Borris), Colm Everard (Moyne-Templetuohy) and Diarmuid Corcoran (Templederry) won hurling scholarships. Diarmuid Corcoran will be the captain of the UCD Freshers team for the coming season. Meanwhile, Therese Brophy (Burgess) won a Camogie scholarship. Well done to all and best wishes in the coming season on and off the playing field. The Tipperary Institute will hold their awards night this Thursday in the Thurles campus.  TIPPERARY GAA DRAW IN ROSEGREEN The December GAA Draw was held last Friday night in Dansie's Rosegreen and proved to be a very enjoyable night. Rosegreen GAA Club Chairman welcomed everyone and County Chairman Donie Shanahan also addressed the gathering. Coordinator Tim Floyd acted as M.C. for the Draw duration and with County Treasurer Spike Nolan rolling the drum and Lar Na Pairce secretary Martina Oakley bringing up the winners on her laptop, the night's programme ran off smoothly. The two cars went to Kilsheelan's Jerry Kehoe and Nenagh's Martin Shoer. Extra prizes of Christmas Hampers were added to the prize-fund for promoters and club Coordinators. Hughie McCarthy from Moyle Rovers won the Hamper prize for those present at the Draw. The night finished with some rousing ballads from Cashel band Willie Hayes & Son. Well done to Rosegreen GAA Club, especially Michael Fanning, Willie O'Grady and Chris O'Brien for an excellent night. All the December prizes will be presented on Friday, December 19th in Park Avenue House, Thurles at 9.30 p.m.  THIRD LEVEL COLLEGES The Datapac Hurling Division 1 Final between the Garda College and the University of Limerick will take place in Nenagh next Wednesday, December 17th at 1:30pm. The Tipperary Institute lost to a very strong Limerick Institute of Technology side recently in the Division 2 Hurling competition.  MOYCARKEY-BORRIS FUNCTION The Two-Mile Borris of 1957 and the Moycarkey-Borris team of 1978 will be honoured at a function in Corcoran's Lounge, Two-Mile Borris on Saturday, 13th December with proceedings commencing at 9:30pm. In 1957, Two-Mile Borris defeated Moyne-Templetuohy on a scoreline of 5-5 to 4-2. Fullback John Ryan (R.I.P.) was the winning captain. In 1978, Moycarkey-Borris got the better of Holycross-Ballycahill by 2-4 to 2-1. Liam Hackett was the winning captain. Paddy and John Coman along with current Moycarkey-Borris Chairman Liam Hennessy have the distinction of being involved with both teams.  THURLES CBS WIN CROKE CUP Thurles CBS 2-10 High School, Clonmel 1-10. Thurles CBS won their 21st Croke Cup Tipperary Post-Primary Schools U-15 Hurling Final at sunny Cashel last Thursday after a titanic struggle with an excellent Clonmel outfit. Thurles led at half-time 1-6 to 0-3 but had to withstand a ferocious Clonmel fight back in an excellent final. Clonmel won the First Year competition last year and made Thurles work very hard to achieve three-in-a-row titles. After the game County Board Vice-Chairman John Costigan presented the cup to Thurles captain, Michael Cahill, who was winning his third successive Croke medal.  COUNTY BOARD GRANTS The following financial grants were approved recently: - Tipperary Hurling Club New York (a100), G.A.A. Clubs in University of Limerick (a100), Tipperary Co. Bord na nOg (a1,500). The annual contribution of a2,000 to County Bord na nOg was also sanctioned.  PRIMARY SCHOOLS SURVEY A fascinating survey has been undertaken on behalf of the Games Development Committee in Tipperary with the intention to study young peoples participation in and attitudes towards Gaelic Games in the County. The survey was carried out under the guidance of Phil Hennessy of the Tipperary Institute. 500 questionnaires were distributed to National Schools in the county during the months of May and June 2003. These schools were randomly chosen throughout the four regions of the county and included schools in both urban and rural areas and of varied sizes. The study concentrates on 5th class students and the majority of those surveyed would be aged 10 or 11. The results were presented at the recent Tipperary County Board meeting. The results are divided into 3 Sections, Section A looks at the Sports played in the region, Club Membership, and Sports they will continue to play as they grow older. Section B looks at how Television and personalities influence what sports children play and what merchandise they buy. Finally Section C looks the coaching they receive and the reasons why children don’t participate in Gaelic Games. The full list of results can be accessed on the Tipperary GAA. Web site at http://tipperary.gaa.ie  COMMUNICATIONS COMMITTEE A meeting of the new Public Relations and Communications Committee was held on November 26th. A wide range of topics was discussed with the main area of focus being match programmes.  CLUB AGM’s The following clubs will hold their Annual General Meeting in the next week: - Nenagh Eire Óg (December 11th at 8:00pm in the Sports Complex), Moneygall (December 12th in the GAA Centre at 8:00pm), St. Patrick’s (December 12th in Cloneen Hall at 8:00pm), Upperchurch-Drombane (December 12th at 8:00pm in Drombane GAA Grounds), Kilsheelan-Kilcash (December 16th at 7:45pm in the Clubhouse)  CÚL 4 KIDZ A new web site was recently launched aimed at younger GAA fans (primary schools). www.cul4kidz.com is the new officials GAA web site for boys and girls and includes interviews with the stars of Gaelic Games, coaching tips, news, stories and events concerning the GAA, games statistics, GAA history and general information on everything to do with Gaelic Games.  GAA SUMMER CAMPS The G.A.A. Summer Camps in 2003 were very successful with 42 clubs organising camps catering for over 4,600 children in County Tipperary. These camps help to provide a high profile for Gaelic Games among our youth, as well as offering valuable skill development and a worthwhile social outlet. The Tipperary Coaching & Games Development Committee would like to thank all clubs for their co-operation in the past year.  REFEREES Last week, I asked the following question. Does an Umpire or a Linesman have the power to bring to the attention of the Referee the fouls listed below which have not been noticed by the Referee? 1. To over carry or over hold the ball or 2. To catch the ball more than twice in hurling or 3. To bounce the ball more than once consecutively after catching it in football. The answer is No.  THANKS I would like to thank the Nenagh Guardian newspaper for giving me the opportunity to bring to you the “Tipperary GAA Scene” for the past few months. The compilation of this column has been a most enjoyable exercise for me and I would also like to express my gratitude to all those gaels who supplied me with information, in particular the PROs of the various branches of the GAA that I have covered in the past 19 weeks. Ed Donnelly (County Public Relations Officer) 
