sport gaa
{  
    December 21 2007 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/tighten-your-belts-time-26340173.html }
GAELIC'S top players can look forward to getting their government grants earlier than they expected, but the bad news for other Irish sporting organisations is that the GAA's gain in 2008 is coming at their expense. The Gaelic Players Association (GPA) and GAA both estimated that the first grants would not come onstream until the 2009 season. But the Irish Sports Council said yesterday that they feel they can get the scheme up and running for the 2008 All-Ireland Championships, if it does not hit any major procedural snags. However, as predicted by the Irish Independent, giving GAA players a slice of the government's 'high performance' pie, in the shape of players' grants, has directly affected the funding of other sports. The country's top international sports have been told that funding for their elite programmes next year will remain the same as it was last year. This has come as something of a shock because it is an Olympic year and also because the Sports Council got an extra €3.3m in funding in the recent Budget. Government funding traditionally improves in an Olympic year and this is a principle that has been recommended by not one but two post-Olympic reviews which were government sponsored. The fact that Olympic sports will enjoy no improvement in funding in 2008 clearly confirms that the extra money allocated to the Sports Council (ISC) has been earmarked for the controversial GAA scheme, something that has not gone down too well with other sporting organisations who are battling to compete on the international stage. The ISC traditionally meets sport's national governing bodies at this time of year to discuss budgets and, despite the fact that its purse was improved by 6pc for 2008, it has already warned top Olympic sports like athletics, rowing, boxing, cycling and sailing, they will be getting no extra money when details of the grant schemes are revealed next month. Coming so soon after the controversial agreement to grant €3.5m in individual grants to the nation's top gaelic players, and the fact that the Beijing Games are eight months away, this has not gone down well. Despite the Sports Council's argument that their funding was affected by general economic factors that have seen a general clamp-down on all public sector funding, it is clear that anything extra that was available has gone directly to the GAA players. While the Department of Arts, Tourism and Sport directly funds sports building programmes (capital funding), it is the Irish Sports Council who is in charge of funding elite competitive sport. The ISC does this through two different forms of annual grants. Sports bodies get a 'high performance' grant to pay for elite staff and programmes, and there is also a separate scheme -- known as the 'carding scheme' -- which gives personal grants to individual athletes. As the enclosed table shows, funding for both these projects has risen annually, and substantially. Since the Sports Council was set up as a statutory body in 1999, it has constantly lobbied the government for more funding to help produce success on the international stage and has usually succeeded. Last year the ISC's 'high performance' funding followed the usual trend of increasing annually by jumping 20pc -- up from €4,25million in 2006 to €5.24million -- to fund the elite programmes of 15 different sports, so there is understandable surprise that this funding has suddenly stalled in an Olympic year. The ISC made it clear from the outset that it did not want to get involved in running any GAA grant scheme but was hauled into the row by new sports minister Seamus Brennan to help find a way that would preserve the GAA's 'amateur status'. The Sports Council's total budget last year was €54.025m which was an increase of over €13m on the previous year but this year their only increase is €3.3m which is already allocated to the GAA players. Upping funding before and during an Olympic year was a key recommendation of two Genesis-style post-Games reviews. As a result, the Sports Council even put extra funding aside in both 2003 and 2004 in an additional lump called the 'Athens Enhancement Plan' but this year there is no such boost. The government boasts annually of its increased financial investment into sport and an ERSI study noted that it spent €180m on it in 2004. However the ERSI also noted that €90m of that came directly from the National Lottery and that €67m of that €180m went to the horse and greyhound racing industries. 
