sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    December 15 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/heartbreak-hotel-in-gaas-naming-rights-25918673.html }
I HARDLY got a wink of sleep over the weekend and neither, I suspect, did a  lot of GAA people. Because we are all wondering what name the GAA will give to their brand new 230-room hotel at Jones Road, Dublin for which they got planning permission from An Bord Pleanala last Friday. And before you say "So what, aren't there hundreds of names for hotels from all over the world and all they have to do is pick one of these", let me remind you that nothing is ever that simple in the GAA. For a start the name of the new hostelry will have to be in two languages, Irish and English, like everything else in the GAA for the past 100 years. Even the English version will have to sound Irish for an organisation that sees itself as the last defenders of a nation that is "not only free but Gaelic as well". So straight away we can forget about your remnants of British aristocracy as a source for naming the GAA's hotel. None of your auld Greshams, Shelbournes or Royal this or that will be even considered. And you can also forget any of those fancy names of hotels from around the world like the Plaza, the Esplande, The Ritz or any of that once fashionable sort of thing. This is the GAA we are talking about here so there will be none of this ego-tripping either when it comes to naming the new premises. That's not the way the GAA carries on its business. Look at the late Michael Ó Hehir, the greatest promotions and public relations man any sports organisation in Ireland ever had for 40 years. But even that did not entice the GAA into naming some part of the redeveloped Croke Park after the great broadcaster. So we can take it as certain that the new hotel will not be called The Mulvihill Arms, the Boothman Hotel & Conference Centre or even the Seán Boylan Royal Hotel & Herbal Centre. It goes without saying that no former hurling or football star will have his name commemorated in the naming of the first GAA-owned hotel either. That would be seen by some GAA officials as lowering the tone of the place before it even opened. So farewell then to names like the Christy Ring Rebel Hotel, the Mick O'Connell Valentia Arms and the Peter Canavan Red Hand Townhouse. And Templenoe Towers or GPA Heights Hotel have not got a snowballs chance in hell! Since the GAA is a great national organisation, even international betimes, there will be none of this petty tribalism when it comes to picking a name. The big counties which have traditionally been the real powerbrokers in the GAA will not be allowed to exercise their clout in this matter. Bad news therefore for those who might have been thinking about The Kingdom House Hotel, The Royal Tara, The Galway Shawl, The Molly Malone Guest-house or The Crossmaglen Park Hotel. I can see the GAA having to set up a special committee to sort out this hotel-naming problem. It will probably be called a Task Force and there are no shortage of hotel experts in the GAA to offer their services. Brian McEniff, Liam Griffin, Mick Burke and Mick O'Dwyer are just a few to mention. Frank Murphy of Cork would have to be the Chairman to make sure the rulebook was adhered to in every respect and Martin Breheny would be on standby for any leaks from the committee. Of course the name will have to be debated at Congress because this is the supreme decision-making body in the GAA and that will give every club in the country a chance to have their say. That's why the GAA is so democratic you know. You won't find any dictatorial decisions handed down from on high in the GAA - no sir, GAA democracy is as pure as the driven snow. It might be wise to lock the toilets when the Congress vote is being taken as it was the sudden rush through the 'Fír' door by delegates which prevented the motion about opening up Croke Park a couple of years ago being passed. Just imagine, if three or four fewer people had not felt the urge to answer the call of nature at the precise moment that momentous vote was being taken we would now be looking forward to Ireland playing France in the World Cup next year in Croke Park and all the hullaballoo now filling our media would be a thing of the past. But I digress. Let us, in the spirit of friendship which permeates the land, if not the GAA, at this time of year try to help out in naming the new hotel. All suggestions should be forwarded on Irish watermarked paper, as Gaeilge, to Danny Lynch the GAA's public relations guru at Croke Park, Dublin 3. I'm sure the eventual operators of the new hotel will be glad to offer a substantial prize to the person who suggests the name which is eventually chosen. You realise of course that the GAA will not be running this new hotel but will franchise out that operation to some of the established hotel operators. So there will be no point pleading with Liam Mulvihill or Michael Delaney to keep the bar open a while longer on the eve of the 2005 All-Ireland final when the place will be up and running because they will not have any say in the matter. And speaking of bars, do remember when you leave the place after a feed of drink that the original GAA intention of having a bridge over Jones's Road linking the hotel to the stadium has been dropped because An Bord Pleanala turned it down. Still on the subject of bars, when a new hotel opened in Tullamore a few years ago one of the bars there was dedicated to the famous Furlong footballing family, Tommy, Mick and Martin, whose family home was once part of the hotel site. I have no doubt there will be many bars in the new GAA hotel on Jones Road and I wonder will it be decided to name each one after some famous GAA family? Now if the naming of the hotel itself will be difficult can you imagine the near impossible task of picking out the GAA families to be 'honoured' by having a bar called after them? PS: I was just thinking yesterday . . . instead of going to all that trouble and expense selecting the people to take part in the Underdogs team the organisers could have simply picked any one of about 16 county football teams who have as much chance of winning the All-Ireland any year as the Underdogs have. E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com. 
