sport gaa
{  
    December 13 2007 03:18 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/other-sports/gaa-awards-scheme-27557238.html }
Granted, the GAAs immense contribution to the sporting, cultural and social development of Ireland has been built on a remarkable voluntary investment in every Parish in the country and that selfless commitment cannot be underestimated.But, contrary to the perception generated through some coverage of the controversy surrounding the Awards scheme, the GAA is not the onl Granted, the GAA’s immense contribution to the sporting, cultural and social development of Ireland has been built on a remarkable voluntary investment in every Parish in the country and that selfless commitment cannot be underestimated. But, contrary to the perception generated through some coverage of the controversy surrounding the Awards scheme, the GAA is not the only sporting organisation which benefits from the blood, sweat and tears of unpaid volunteers. No sporting activity in this country, amateur or progessional, could survive without the enormous contribution of ordinary members of the community - parents driving youngsters to training, volunteers lining pitches or painting club houses, countless men and women involved in all sorts of fund raising initiatives, and so on. The reality is that voluntary effort has always been part of the sporting fabric of the country — and long may it continue. To claim that all this will change and that people who have given unsparing service to their local clubs in the past will suddenly run for cover just because the welfare of players is going to addressed in a structured way is absolute nonsense. There is precious little evidence to back up this contention. Soccer, for example, is a professional sport in this country but does that stop thousands of people getting involved in the game on a voluntary basis?. Of course not. Think of the people running youth and junior soccer clubs, providing a valuable sporting outlet for thousands of young people, investing countless hours in coaching, preparing pitches, ferrying children to matches up and down the country. And none of them getting a cent for it. They do it out of a sense of community spirit and the fact that there are players at a higher level getting good money is totally irrelevant to them. I wouldn’t be as familiar with the rugby scene but I doubt if there has been a drastic reduction in the number of people working away at grassroots level on a voluntary basis since the sport became professional in this country. Then there’s sports like athletics, golf, swimming and others where somewhere along the line there may be paid officials or coaches but, in the main, are kept alive by a massive voluntary input from members of the community. The point is that the voluntary spirit which is at the very heart of the GAA at grassroots level, as it is in so many other sports, will not evaporate because of the proposed Awards Scheme for players. On the wider issue of players’ welfare, the Awards Scheme strikes me as a totally sensible compromise. It preserves the amateur status of the GAA while, at the same time, ensures that players are rewarded for the extraordinary commitment and sacrifices they have to make in order to compete at inter-county level. The demands on players in terms of the hours they put into training and preparation, dietary considerations, impact on family and social life and professional and academic pursuits, has reached unprecedented levels in recent years. Maybe that’s what they buy into for the honour of wearing the county jersey but, nevertheless, their extraordinary endeavours deserve to be recognised. The GPA have made it clear on numerous occasions during the course of the debate on the issue that they are not interested in pay for play. In agreeing to approve the Awards Scheme in principle at their meeting last Saturday, the GAA’s Central Council clearly accepts that this is the case and has moved to address the genuine concerns of those who feel the amateur status is under threat as a result of the Awards Scheme. Central Council decided to ask all parties to the agreement to accept the following amendment to the section of the agreement which refers to amateur status to read: “All parties recognise that the GAA is an amateur Association and state their absolute commitment to the maintenance of the amateur status of the Association. They state that nothing in this agreement shall be allowed to undermine the amateur status of Gaelic Games” The Council indicated that the proposed scheme was acceptable in principle on the basis that the money involved was exchequer revenue, that it would be paid via the Sports Council and that it was for agreed and defined purposes which would be monitored and audited by that body. It was also clarified at Saturday’s meeting that the GAA had received formal commitment from the Government that the proposed Awards would not impact adversely in any way on any current or future capital or games development funding and that the Government accepts full responsibility for scale and continuity. All in all, it appears that the GAA has done an excellent job in protecting its interests while the GPA’s long campaign for equitable treatment for Gaelic footballers and hurlers has reached a successful conclusion. It’s a win, win situation. Time to move on. 
