sport gaa
{  
    November 01 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/there-are-many-reasons-not-to-open-croke-park-25884184.html }
THE starting pistol for the great Rule 42 debate was fired at Croke Park on Saturday. The GAA's Special Congress ensured that Rule 42 will be debated at Congress 2005, so from now until next April, it is open season on this most famous of GAA rules. The delegates on Saturday passed a motion which effectively neuters the Motions Committee. This is the group of past presidents who vet motions passed at county conventions and who prevented motions to change Rule 42 from being discussed at Congress 2004. That can no longer happen now. I know of no other organisation in this country that can generate such passion over the various rules in its constitution like the GAA can. For 50 years, we had fierce debates over Rule 27, which prevented GAA members from playing or attending soccer or rugby games. In the past 20 years, we have had equally fierce debates about Rule 21 which prevented members of the RUC or British Army from being members of the GAA. And for the past five years or so, we have been debating Rule 42 which decrees that GAA grounds cannot be used for staging competing sports such as soccer or rugby. The reason why Rule 42 is such a hot potato, of course, is that it prevents Croke Park from being rented out for international rugby or soccer games. The debate, if one could call it that, is sure to be tempestuous for the next few months. The impression given in the media is that the vast majority of GAA members and the Irish public want Croke Park 'opened up'. But there is another viewpoint within the GAA and in the interest of fair play, it is important that the arguments of those opposed to Croke Park being opened up are out-lined. The reasons are many and varied but include the following: 1) There is a strong feeling that because Croke Park is the GAA's greatest asset at the present time, it should not be made available to promote and enrich rival sporting organisations. Soccer and rugby are competing all over Ireland nowadays for elite young sportsmen and therefore are direct competitors to the GAA in the most important market of all - the youth. The growth of rugby and soccer in every county is a modern development that threatens the GAA's previous dominant position. 2) Another large section of GAA people are deeply resentful of some people from other sports, particularly soccer, virtually demanding that Croke Park be made available to them. They claim that because some government money was made available for Croke Park the stadium is somehow public property is insulting to the GAA who could, and would, have built the same stadium if they never got a cent of public money. They also say it is significant that only when the magnificent new Croke Park was built did the cry to let in soccer and rugby emerge. Twenty years ago, soccer and rugby people would turn their noses up at the idea of playing in Croke Park. 3) Many GAA people have little time for the argument that they should help out the FAI when they see the depths of incompetence which that body continually trawls. They see no valid reason why the GAA should now reward this long-term incompetence by making Croke Park available, thereby saving the FAI the embarrassment of having to admit to world soccer authorities that they have no ground of their own in which the Irish team can play. 4) The GAA, despite its 'flash' image in recent years, still has a large number of members who regard it as a nationalistic organisation as much as a sporting one. This applies particularly to people from the Six Counties where membership of the GAA has a totally different connotation to the other 26 counties. And there are still many rules in the GAA's Official Guide, other than Rule 42, which give credence and support to this attitude. 5) There is in the GAA, as in many Irish organisations, a small lunatic fringe who are absolute political diehards. In the coming months, they will be quoting Bloody Sunday, the 1920 version, and will recount all the GAA people who were murdered in the past 30 years in the North. They do not want the republic soccer team in Croke Park since it it is a 26-county team and they could never stomach God Save The Queen in Croker or the Union Jack flying in front of Hill 16, with the historical connotations Hill 16 has. Like all lunatic fringes, these people will do more harm than good to the 'No' cause. 6) The biggest and most genuine fear that thousands of GAA members have is that opening Croke Park to other games will inevitably lead to similar concessions being made at GAA grounds all over the country. The Munster rugby team will be playing in the Limerick Gaelic Grounds in a few years, using the same arguments that are now being made about Croke Park. As the years go on, more and more GAA grounds will be made available to local soccer and rugby clubs. Many, many ordinary GAA people have sweated blood over many years to provide a GAA pitch in every parish in Ireland and they would feel betrayed if people from other sports, who had made no contribution, could start using these pitches. This is a very understandable reaction and one which GAA bosses will ignore at their peril. The notion that the opening of Croke Park can be ring-fenced from all other GAA grounds is wishful thinking say the objectors. 8) If as seems likely, the redevelopment of Landsdowne Road is completed in about five years time, the IRFU will no longer require Croke Park and, presumably, the FAI will also shift their internationals to the Dublin 4 venue. So the huge rental figures being mentioned will only be for a few years which does not justify such a fundamental change of approach as removing Rule 42. 8) GAA members have an understandable pride, almost vanity, in relation to the magnificent structure that is Croke Park, a world-class venue provided by an amateur sporting organisation. Many GAA people see Croke Park as the culmination of over 100 years of progress for the organisation, sometimes in the face of bitterness and animosity. It is not that many years ago since some soccer and rugby people were prone to making sneering references about the GAA. An examination of the national media even today will show that this attitude lives on. Political correctness may be choking the Irish way of life in many facets of our lives, but in the GAA it still struggles for existence. Quite simply, many GAA people believe Croke Park is THEIR pride and joy and do not feel like sharing it. Unpalatable to the sporting liberals perhaps, but a fact nevertheless. Let the battle begin!  Monday Focus
  Eugene McGee
  E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
