sport gaa
{  
    December 12 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/the-gaa-has-acted-now-its-pay-back-time-25951345.html }
I CAN exclusively reveal this morning that reports that Queen Elizabeth II will be attending the rugby match between Ireland and England in 2007 in Croke Park are not true. Rumours that our GAA orientated President McAleese would arrange for the long expected first visit of the British sovereign to this part of Ireland to coincide with the first England-Ireland rugby match to be played in Croke Park in 2007 are way off the mark. Mind you, it would be very handy bearing in mind that Queen Liz would be staying just up the road in the Phoenix Park at Áras an Uachtaráin and Saturday afternoon would probably be a slack enough period but no, the time is not quite right just yet. Bad enough that GAA glasnost has broken out to such an extent that God save the Queen will ring out from the hallowed pitch of the new Croke Park in 2007 but getting that concept accepted into the Irish psyche will be difficult enough for one year. A Royal visit to Croker can wait, thank you - apart from an appearance there by the footballers of Meath of course! Almost as difficult a concept as the notion of a British Royal visitor to Croke Park is the prospect of thousands of died-in-the-wool rugby addicts actually finding their away across the Liffey to the north side of town. There should be a great sale of Dublin street maps this time next year as many of the wearers of sheepskins and hip flasks try to work out where that 'Gah place' actually is. One might think that moving from Landsdowne Road in Dublin 4 to Dublin 3, where Croke Park is, should not be very difficult. But it will be a major culture shock for many of the regular visitors to Landsdowne for rugby internationals whose familiarity with the streets of Dublin 3 is confined to the odd news item of RTÉ television. Now that the GAA's Central Council has ignored people like Michael Greenan and Bob Honohan by confirming the availability of Croke Park for the playing of rugby and soccer competitive games in 2007, the GAA has been absolved from any further responsibility in the matter. All the clichéd arguments which infested the radio phone-ins and Letters to the Editor pages in newspapers for the past decade are now redundant. Magnanimous The GAA has made the hard decisions, they have not let the country down, they have guaranteed millions in profits for the members of Dublin Chamber of Commerce, have acted in the national interest, have shown themselves to be magnanimous and done all the other things that their critics have been accusing them of not doing in recent years since the 'open Croke Park debate' first surfaced. Now the ball, both round and oval, is at the feet of the IRFU and FAI and it will be very interesting to observe how these august bodies behave. It is well known that many people who think they are influential in soccer and rugby would prefer never to play in Croke Park - fine stadium or not. There has always been a mistaken belief in Irish sport that only GAA people, because of historical factors, were antagonistic towards rugby and soccer. This is far from being the case and both soccer and rugby have had the same level of minority antipathy to the GAA as in the reverse situation. For decades while Rule 27, the Ban, was in force the GAA was the favourite whipping boy of the other two sports, particularly soccer. They rightly regarded the ban on GAA members playing or attending soccer or rugby as an insult to those sorts and it was no wonder an accumulation of anger and bitterness developed which often created fraught situations in towns in provincial Ireland particularly. Then the GAA did away with Rule 27 in 1971 and a new era began. Rule 21 regarding RUC and British Army members was next to go and finally came the scrapping of Rule 42 this year, confirmed by the Central Council on Saturday. The GAA has done all the giving, at great internal cost, in these political matters which were being blamed for divisions in Irish sport for a century. Now it is pay-back time, literally, for the organisation. Pay-back will come by way of the GAA making a profit of many millions from letting the IRFU and the FAI play internationals in Croke Park and, boy, what a pay back that is. For the begrudgers in the other sports the notion that soccer and rugby will be contributing millions to the coffers of the GAA must be extremely galling. But that's the new reality and it comes about because the GAA is far and away the best organised sports body in Ireland. Forward planning and a spirit of adventure, absent in most Irish sports bodies, has enabled the amateur GAA create the magnificent new Croke Park which the two professional sports bodies now need to rent out to save them the embarrassment of taking their home international games to some foreign country. A whole new ball game indeed!  eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
