sport gaa
{ Brendan Lawrence at Arklow Bay Hotel 
    January 25 2020 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/sport/man-of-the-moment-jimmy-dunne-inducted-into-the-wicklow-hall-of-fame-38886383.html }
If ever there was an obvious and long overdue inductee for the Wicklow GAA Hall of Fame, then this year's award winner Jimmy Dunne was surely it.   Decades of service to club, county and province that have included the creating and shaping of numerous groundbreaking developments in our games and, indeed, some that have changed the face, structure and appeal of the GAA forever, is what the AGB and Wicklow legend has achieved and invested into his beloved organisation.   The reaction of the massive crowd in the Arklow Bay Hotel on Saturday night last at the Garden County GAA Sports Stars Awards evening told you all you needed to know about the esteem with which Jimmy Dunne is held right across the county and the country as all 340 guests rose to their feet to applaud him as he made his way to collect his award and take his rightful place in the annals of Wicklow GAA history.   Andy O'Brien and special guest Sean Kelly spoke at length and in great detail on their colleague and friend.  'When we speak or consider the inducting of a person into a hall of fame it generally indicates a high and wide level of dedication of the recipient to a particular organisation. Well tonight we honour someone who has dedicated in excess of sixty years of commitment to the GAA at all levels; club, county, provincial and central,' began Andy O'Brien.  'To try and capture his GAA contributions here tonight would be near impossible nor would he want it. Our constitution speaks of those who organise it activities, those who control its destinies, those that on a daily basis carry its burdens and give unselfish support. Tonight, our recipient demonstrates all these qualities in his roles of responsibility with a very forward way of thinking and outside the box approach with regard to the greatest level of detail.  'Like many of our recipients here tonight the contribution of our Hall of Fame recipient to the GAA may not be known to many as I have said we are reviewing a lifetime of involvement and service, and I hope we do him justice here tonight as I relay some of his roles, activities and contributions throughout our Association. His knowledge and commitment led him to holding pivotal roles and none more so than within his club.   'At National level spanning in excess of 20 years at the highest level where he held the chairperson position of several extremely important committees, with some of the committees being their first time in existence as we know them today, for example the national CCC, chairing the National and Policy Planning Committee, a committee which supported counties and clubs alike, his duration as Chair of the National Finance Committee seen the introduction of online ticket sales, something we take as the norm today. His past also seen him chair national committees of both the referees and child welfare.   'Also during this period, he held the prestigious position of National Trustee, an honour to him, his club and county and also recognition of his service and ability. A further role he held - with its own level of honour - was that of tour manager of the 2003 Compromise Rules trip to Australia, a role requiring the respect for detail and the PR skills of the man which he continues to practice on a daily basis. He was to repeat this skill in 2007 when he organised a similar trip to New York for the Wicklow Tommy Murphy Cup panel.   'His provincial involvement seen him lead many portfolios over a period of 25 years, with his commitment to the counties of Leinster through coaching and games and also his involvement with supporting the physical developments within counties. This expertise regularly brought him outside Leinster to advise county and club committees as they embarked on projects involving development and finance.   'At county level his involvement is unique on a number of fronts but possibly his leadership skills and his willingness to lead from the front is best acknowledged in the fact that he has held both the position of County Chairman and county secretary, secretary on three different occasions. His involvement in supporting his county in direct roles started in 1954 as South District juvenile secretary continuing in pivotal roles for some 50 years with him serving again in 2003 as county secretary.  'He continues up to this day to serve on many county subcommittees. Further roles he held in more recent times were both HR manager and office administrator; roles he held with a distinct level of attention to detail and a marked level of confidentiality.   'I am conscious that these few words do not reflect his contribution to his county, starting in 1954 and still continues today with the same level dedication.   'Club level involvement of our recipient can be best summed up by saying, 'he is the club'. Everything in his life revolves around his club and in the vast majority of cases the club comes first.   'Having got his first introduction to club committee life at the young age of 15, following on to taking the then club secretary role in 1979, and today, 40 years later, he is starting the fourth year in his current term as club secretary.   'If proof was required regards his loyalty and commitment to his club a brief glance at his annual report to his club's 2019 AGM would be suffice; a professional detailed record of a busy club's activities. Recently he was front and centre to his club securing a permanent home, currently driving development plans, his club never slow to engage development.   'While we reflect on his GAA contributions we should be conscious of the enormous positive contribution he has and continues to make to his community by his involvement in its Social, Economic and Educational elements all done in an understated way. Also, during some fifty years of this time he held down a very professional business career in the retail industry in which he held national office.  'A sign of the esteem this man is held in by the wider GAA Association is shown in the number of his former colleagues who are here with us tonight, all who wanted to be associated with tonight firstly due to their long friendship with him but also, they recognise his enormous contribution and support down through the years at all levels.   'With us are Sean Kelly MEP former Uachtarain, Cathy Slattery and Joan Cooney, two people central to the activities of our Association at national level over decades and also good friends of Wicklow. Teresa Rehill, also from Croke Park, unfortunately can't be with us due to something coming on her agenda at very short notice. John McCarthy, former long-serving member of Leinster Council is also with us. John worked with him over many years and also appreciates the skills he brought to the activities of Leinster Council. Michael Delaney, former Leinster Council CEO, sends his apologies for being unable to attend due to a family commitment. He described our recipient as one of a kind.   'While our recipients GAA life continues to be wide and varied, just as did his early study and work life, born and reared here in Arklow, he trained as a chef with his main interest in the area of confectionary.  Having completed his training, he worked in County Leitrim for a period, where it is reported he played hurling for Leitrim. He then travelled the world on cruise liners, perfecting his trade. On returning to Arklow he worked in both the retail and insurance businesses, followed by jointly running their shop with his wife under the flagship of Options, a very apt name as this retail shop was also to serve as the hub of Wicklow GAA affairs for many years.  'All of the above was done with the support and encouragement of his wife Bridie, his brother Fr Liam, his sister Lilian and her family, his extended family and his beloved club, all of whom are with us tonight.  'Jimmy Dunne of Arklow Geraldines Ballymoney GAA Club it gives me the greatest pleasure on the behalf of the Gaels of Wicklow to induct you into the Garden County GAA Sports Stars Hall of Fame,' added O'Brien.  Special Guest on the night, former GAA President Sean Kelly, said that Jimmy Dunne was a very significant figure in major developments within the GAA over the years. 'I first got to know Jimmy when I was Chairman of Kerry County Board and he was secretary of Wicklow County Board and the first thing that impressed me about him was when he told me his wife was from Kerry, and I said to myself, 'there's a man with good taste'.  'We became good friends, and then when I was Chairman of Central Council he was on management and we had the chance to discuss various things like the opening of croke Park and so forth.   'I was a bit naïve at the time and I thought the opening of Croke Park would be a doddle. After a while I was getting a bit of a kickback from management becuase some didn't like that fact that they would be going against the status quo, which is understandable. And I remember one night it got a bit heated and there was a threat of putting it to a vote. I kind of stood back and looked around the room and I said to myself, 'if this goes to a vote, how many of these guys will go against it'. I looked around and I said I was only surte of two votes here: Tommy Moran from Leitrim and Jimmy Dunne from Wicklow. Isn't it amazing that those two counties are also responsible for the introduction of the second tier championship this year.   'So, on we went. When it came to the opening of Croke Park we needed a motion that was straightforward and not complicated because if it was complicated it wouldn't be passed. We actually had 30 motions - seven of them had to be ruled out almost straight away because they wanted to open Croke Park permanently.  'I had as Uachtaran, more or less, to guide Congress along to withdraw every motion in succession to leave it down to one motion and that was Jimmy Dunne's motion from Arklow. And it was very simple, to open Croke Park while Landsowne Road was being redeveloped. No complications.   'And if he hadn't drafted that motion, Croke Park would not have been opened, simple as that.   'So, Jimmy was highly responsible for that, and I appreciated it,' he added.        Wicklow People 
