sport gaa
{  
    June 22 2008 03:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/better-out-than-in-26456943.html }
We all need to let off steam and in Ireland our methods of release can be described as often ugly, but effective. There's the recent GAA schmozzles that even Jerry Springer's aggrieved trailer-park folk would be proud of. Then there's our ability to launch into a string of expletives that would make a taoiseach blush. And there's the ritual of going on the lash followed by a shock-and-awe assault on the local nightclub and ending up at the Irish Holy Grail, an overlit fast-food outlet, at 2am. The strange thing about these excesses is that they tend to eliminate a lot of our angst and stresses. GAA players don't tend to shoot up each other's houses after clobbering each other during a match, while the use of a few well-placed expletives hasn't meant the end of civilisation. Undoubtedly, there's a problem with youth drinking and anti-social behaviour in Ireland, but it's an equally undeniable fact that most people who go on the lash manage to dust themselves down and function in the real world afterwards. Our methods of letting off steam may not be pretty, but they've served us well for years and now they're under threat. The GAA is under pressure to tighten its rules and punish players involved in punch-ups. Our drink laws are being made more restrictive with the new Intoxicating Liquor Bill, and the Government is even planning to curb swearing on radio and TV. But just because our ways of getting rid of pent-up emotions are unpalatable, doesn't mean they're unnecessary. Experts tell us that many of these illogical ways of releasing pressure are vital for the mental health of a nation. In his book about Englishness, broadcaster Jeremy Paxman said his country's obsession with games and sports stems from the fact that English boarding schools had to "find ways of exercising the hormonally challenged". Anthropologist Kate Cox, in her book Watching the English, points out that every human society needs to develop sports and games because all have adolescent and post-adolescent males to deal with. "We all deal with them by trying to channel their potentially destructive aggression and other disruptive tendencies into relatively harmless sports and games," she said. It's not just a ball they need to kick to touch; Irish blokes haven't discarded their reticence about their feelings and emotions, either. For many Irish lads, trying to discuss emotions is still akin to telling them their mother is hot or asking them what foot they kick with -- it just doesn't go down well. And it's because we're all such emotional time-bombs that we find ourselves doing illogical things such as guzzling a Milky Moo milkshake in Supermacs at 2am, throttling the guy from the next parish during a GAA game or using terms of endearment like "ya aul bollix" to let our friends know how much we love them. Scoring highly on the endangered list is our national tradition of allowing big eejits to knock lumps out of each other on GAA pitches. GAA-player bashing -- and I don't mean a bad Sunday Game review -- is under the microscope after recent brawls such as at the Dublin-Meath game in April, which involved up to 16 players. So negative was the public reaction to that scrap, I was convinced that I had missed some heinous part of it -- a lynching, or some Dublin player being hung, drawn and quartered, perhaps. But if you scrutinise the clips on YouTube, all you'll see is what the GAA telly pundits used to term "handbag stuff" in the old days. The GAA imposed hefty fines and bans afterwards on the offenders, at which Sunday Independent columnist, old-schooler Colm O'Rourke, became Dunphyesque in his "it-was-a-good-scrap-not-a-great- scrap" analysis. "There was a bit of wrestling, jersey pulling and shouldering, with plenty of verbals and squaring up, but not a punch in sight. When it was over, there were no black eyes, no cut lips and not even a hint of a nosebleed. It certainly won't get near the top 10 of GAA rows," he pointed out. Of course, there was debate after the Meath-Dublin games about the decline in GAA standards and "wasn't-it-better-in-the- old-days?' style reminiscing. Call me selfish, but isn't it better that a Gaelic footballer built like a brick shithouse can legitimately lay into some similarly proportioned opponent on the pitch, than that he take his aggression out on someone in real life. People forget that Gaelic football started off as rough-and-tumble games with very few rules, such as caid, which were played between parishes. The GAA eventually came up with some rules but even in modern Gaelic football, the old line about going to a fight and a football match breaking out still seems appropriate. This year, even the supporters have been getting in on the act, with various controversies about them throwing objects onto the playing field -- stuff like cups of tea and a wooden spoon. Sounds more like a protest about the dearth of culinary delicacies at GAA grounds than proper hooliganism: we have gone from a nation of farmers to a nation of farmers' markets, so maybe the GAA supporter just isn't happy with the flask of tea anymore. Supporters are often forgotten in these sporting controversies. They, too, are looking for a forum to let off steam, a break from their daily dooms and glooms. Certainly, psychiatric studies have found that football has a positive effect on mental health. Alan Pringle, a UK mental health lecturer, studied a group of Mansfield Town fans for two years, analysing them before and after games, and identified what he termed the pressure-cooker effect. "Going to a match offered the supporters the opportunity to release tensions that would otherwise build up with potentially damaging mental and physical health consequences," he said. In an era when people are often forced by economic imperatives to live far from the place they call home, the attraction of being able to follow your own county is obvious. There is a term, sociability disorder, which has been used to describe English people's inability to express emotion and engage in friendly social interaction. And it's a disorder becoming increasingly apparent in Ireland as well -- so, naturally, the behaviour of fans at inter-county GAA matches is bound to be different to the behaviour of fans 30 years ago. The perhaps unpalatable truth is that the GAA should consider whether chucking a cup of tea onto the field could actually be a positive thing -- in dissipating the fans' tensions rather than allowing them to morph into violence on the streets later on. And now we're talking about violence in sport, the changing attitude to boxing is interesting. Nearly 20 years ago, when debate raged about whether boxing should be banned, Adrian Whiteson, a medical officer to the British Boxing Board of Control, reflected: "Moralists argue as to whether there was a place for boxing. Put two babies together in a playpen with one toy and see the resultant mayhem. This basic violence or competitive nature is never very far away from the surface. Any young man wishing to box must . . . learn the art of self-defence and controlled aggression within the very strict rules of the Boxing Board of Control. Banning would only drive it underground and then indeed the sport would become too dangerous to be acceptable." Interestingly, in a recent policy document, the Conservative Party leader, David Cameron, endorsed boxing as a way of diverting youngsters -- and here, RTE is once again broadcasting live fights. Maybe this is a belated recognition that letting off steam through sport is necessary, and that it's how the steam is controlled that's important. The most controversial method of letting off steam in this country is not a sport at all -- it's our desire to drink a lot. There is no doubt that there is a problem with alcohol and violence in Ireland. A recent study by the HSE revealed that alcohol was a factor in 97 per cent of public order offences and that nearly one in three people attending hospital A&Es are there with alcohol-related injuries. The Government has reacted by granting extra powers to the Garda to seize alcohol from under 18s, and by planning to use under 18s to carry out test purchases of alcohol in pubs and clubs. Off-licences are to be restricted and sales of alcohol from supermarkets must be in an area further separated from the rest of the shop. The new laws will also see off-licence opening times restricted to between 10.30am and 10pm, instead of their current hours of 7.30am and 12.30am. Existing loopholes, which allow pubs and clubs with theatre licences to serve beyond normal opening hours, will be closed. This new legislation will join a whole raft of laws designed to control alcohol and get us to act responsibly when we drink it. But is there any point? In anthropologist Kate Fox's book Watching The English, she focused on the problem of binge drinking and violence in her country and concluded that the behavioural effects of alcohol are a self-fulfilling prophecy. Basically, if you believe that alcohol makes you aggressive then it will. She said there are two types of cultures when it comes to alcohol, which she called Ambivalent cultures and Mediterranean cultures. Ambivalent cultures such as those of England and Ireland have a love-hate relationship with alcohol, while in Mediterranean cultures, alcohol is a normal, morally neutral part of life. In Ambivalent cultures such as Ireland and England there is a history of temperance movements. She highlights the contradiction that while Mediterranean cultures have higher per capita alcohol consumption, they rarely encounter some of the alcohol-related social problems that affect Ireland, such as public order offences and A&E admissions. And most don't have a history of temperance movements. One fact that the Government, in its current prohibitive phase, fails to grasp is that the vast majority of people who go out at weekends do not engage in anti-social behaviour and -- shock horror -- just have a good night out. And if the night traditionally ends with a burger, well, that's maybe too much fun. One of the current Government proposals is to close fast-food outlets before nightclubs, in an effort to curb drink-related violence. The proposed anti-kebab laws haven't gone down well with the likes of Supermacs and McDonald's. Supermacs boss Pat McDonagh said it was unfair to target fast-food chains, since they are not themselves responsible for the public disorder. "I've never seen anyone getting high as a kite on burgers and chips -- it's either what they've drank or what they've taken," he pointed out. But the Department of Justice believes shutting the eateries early would reduce the number of brawls. "It's a sad situation for the country if we have to close our businesses at a set time because of law and order issues," added McDonagh. However, the vicinity of fast-food outlets does play a starring role in many public order incidents and the only reason they open late is to get the custom of post-drinking, salt- craving clientele. But he may have some support if legislation to force them to shut earlier gathers pace, because for many late-night revellers, burger joints are an integral part of the fun of the night out. Not for nothing is Supermacs in Eyre Square -- even with the decor stuck firmly in 1990 -- often called the best nightclub in Galway. Prohibiting us from eating kebabs at 2am is cutting off a vital forum for social interaction and preventing us from letting off steam. It's prohibitionist to think that shutting a gathering point for people after pubs and clubs close will mean there will be no violence or disorder. There's a risk that by putting in place yet more anti-drink laws to regulate spontaneous human behaviour we will only reinforce the view that alcohol is dangerous and leads to violence. Temperance drives do tend to draw out "colourful" characters here. They had fiery cleric, Father Mathew, in the 19th century and today, we've got Pat Spillane. The Sunday Game presenter and pub owner has seen a gap in the "isn't-drink-terrible" market and has gone for it. He was also granted a soapbox on the Late Late Show to raise his concerns about the demon drink. He even had a handy catchphrase -- Saturday Night Ireland Culture -- to describe how we're all going to hell in a handcart. Pat is convinced that many of our problems with drink are down to the increasing popularity of sugary, spirit-based drinks such as Fat Frogs. "Nowadays, it's the type of drink that's a lot of the problem," he said. "It's higher volume and high in sugar and you're left with a drunk and out-of-control monster." Not one to hype up our problems, Pat also added: "If you look sideways at the wrong person you could get the shit beaten out of you or, worse still, killed." He displays a classic ambivalent attitude to alcohol. On one hand, he says that it is leading to violence and death but on the other, he adds that he likes a few pints himself. "I am no Holy Joe," said Pat. "I like my few pints, I'm not a right-winger, and lots of young Irish people drink in moderation. But we have seen the emergence of this monster the drunken, aggressive Irish youth who dominates the Irish Saturday night." Of course, by saying this Pat is distancing himself from young people, suggesting he can handle alcohol but they can't. It's not an approach that will win over the young people he is preaching at. It's easy for Pat to go on a Friday-night chat show and preach to the converted and get the acclaim of his peers, but the actual drinkers are guzzling Fat Frogs and having a good time -- not watching the Late Late. There's a risk that Pat Spillane's Saturday-Night-Ireland-Culture intervention will just do more harm than good by hyping up the dangers of alcohol and not dealing with our ambivalent attitude to booze. This could lead once again to that self-fulfilling prophecy that if we see alcohol as something that leads to violence and disorder, then it will continue to happen. Interestingly, a recent Department of Health survey on the nation's lifestyle found that the number of people drinking six or more alcoholic drinks a week fell from 45 per cent in 2002 to 28 per cent in 2007. Much of the Government's prohibitionist philosophy is coming from the Green Party. John Gormley hit the headlines recently when he called for strong action against alcohol promotion and sales. He also favours a ban on alcohol ads on TV. Press reports suggested that John Gormley also wanted former justice minister Brian Lenihan to go even further with the new Intoxicating Liquor laws, which will clamp down on the off-licences. His Green Party colleague, Minister for Communications Eamon Ryan, also displays this prohibitionist attitude in Government. He announced last month that bad language is to be restricted and fast-food ads targetting children are to be banished from the airwaves. Under the terms of the new Broadcasting Bill, there will be penalties for the use of expletives during daytime broadcasts. Again, this is suppressing one of our valuable methods of letting off steam, and forbidding broadcasters to really reflect how Irish people communicate with each other. Nobody likes excessive swearing, but what else is imposing sanctions on the use of swear words in the broadcast media, if not further evidence of a prohibitionist mentality? Shortly after Eamon Ryan announced his plans, the Taoiseach, Brian Cowen, gave a truer reflection of our attitude to bad language when he was heard to use the F word after a heated Dail debate. In the same month, EU Commissioner Charlie McCreevy announced that the Fianna Fail tent at the Galway races was a "pain in the arse". Strangely the world didn't end, although the Irish Times did run an opinion piece asking: "Is our society drowning in a cesspool of its own expletives?" The establishment disdain for letting off steam has even extended to our children, and banning junk-food ads during daytime telly is only the thin end of the wedge. The Irish Pre-School Play Association annual conference was told recently that Irish parents are in danger of raising a "bubblewrap generation" of kids who are "street stupid". Child expert Bob Hughes has said kids who do not have enough time to play are "battery children". He pointed out that parents are so wound up with concerns about predatory adults and traffic that their kids aren't allowed to do anything. "The potential impact of this is a generation of children who are clumsy, unsocial, anxious and potentially street stupid." He added that turning them into the bubblewrap generation is reducing children's resilience and threatening their ability to survive alone. Interestingly, Bill said children's "incarceration" can lead to unhappiness, aggression, lack of concentration and an inability to make friends. Maybe our legislators and social commentators need to reflect that we are turning our adults as well as our children into the "bubblewrap" generation. As we say about the most basic bodily functions, it's better out than in. 
