sport gaa
{ Cliona Foley 
    February 06 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/tactical-injuries-a-symptom-of-doping-confusion-in-gaa-26057493.html }
REVELATIONS that some team medics were forced to pull their players out of games because they weren't sure about the legality of over-the-counter medicine they'd taken, has prompted a top pharmacist to warn GAA players to fully inform themselves as the National  Leagues resume. Speaking after an Irish Sports Council seminar on 'Doping in Sport' last weekend, Tyrone-born and Galway-based chemist Brendan Quinn said it was obvious that there was still huge ignorance over what medicines could get players in trouble. "It was admitted that quite a few 'tactical' ankle injuries were pulled last year because players had unwittingly taken something which might have put them in trouble," Quinn said. "One doctor (not in GAA) said he was forced to do so because a player turned up on the morning of a match, told him he'd taken a cough bottle and couldn't remember which one. "Another doctor, working with a prominent hurling team, was worried, for example, about the implications if he has a player with a split head and has to give him a local anaesthetic to stitch him, which would automatically raise the player's adrenalin levels." But by far the biggest problem, Quinn said, is the issue of supplements and he pointed out that one danger area which has not been highlighted before is the fact that there are some supplements which are legally on sale in the UK and Northern Ireland but not in this country, leaving huge potential for confusing some GAA players. "A simple example is Proplus, a stimulant which is loaded with caffeine, and one used by students to keep themselves awake cramming for exams," Quinn explained. "You can buy it across the counter in Northern Ireland but it was taken off the market down here." The meeting also heard that some Lemsip products (of which there are nine in the Republic, and three of those are banned) have different properties on the UK market which further adds to the potential for confusion. "It was obvious from everything that was said that there's still a lot of confusion out there amongst players and team medics," Quinn warned. He is working with the GAA and the Irish Pharmaceutical Union to help tighten their anti-drugs information. But he went as far as to suggest that each of Ireland's top sporting unions should have a particular brand of supplements tested so that they can recommend them, as a 'safe' product, to their players. "The reality is that lots of Irish athletes, in soccer, rugby and GAA are probably taking supplements. There's no point in thinking they are not," Quinn said. "The problem is that it is supplements which are causing so many positive tests internationally, because they often contain banned substances which are not noted on their lists of contents. If Irish players are to be completely protected, then organisations like the GAA should probably look at taking one particular brand of supplements, send its products off to Trinity College to have them thoroughly screened, and then, when they're sure they are safe, make these their 'officially approved' supplement. "Not only would this protect the players but there is a huge marketing potential there too, as a pharmaceutical company would love to be associated with a sport as huge as the GAA." One team medic with a prominent GAA team described last week's seminar as "excellent, it really brought home to us how serious it is and how, even though they are amateurs and might do so in ignorance, that GAA players will be treated as strictly as everyone else if they are found positive." Inter-county GAA players have been liable for testing since late last August. This should include random testing in their homes and at work but the GAA have persuaded the Sports Council to only test their senior players in competition and at training, because of their amateur status. Because of limited resources, it is extremely unlikely that any GAA player will actually be tested at training this season but it will definitely happen at matches and applies since the Allianz FL re-started last Sunday. The Sports Council recommends that players should visit 'eirpharm.com' to clarify what is banned and Brendan Quinn is also putting his upcoming website 'drugs-sport.com' at the disposal of all Irish athletes to broaden their education, particularly about dietary and training supplements. "That is an area a lot of people don't want to talk about but I'm quite happy to do so, especially now because the GAA players are in the middle of their weight-training," he said. "If they are taking supplements, even legal ones, they should immediately bring them to the County Board's Group Medical Officer and have them thoroughly checked out because they could still contain traces of something which is banned." In other news, Tyrone's new football captain is Peter Canavan. The former All-Star begins his second stint as skipper when Tyrone take on Galway in their opening Allianz FL game. Tyrone will be without the services of Declan McCrossan for their next two games. McCrossan is on honeymoon and misses Sunday's clash as well as the home tie against Dublin on Sunday week. Managers Art McRory and Eugene McKenna are expected to name their side tomorrow night. Limerick hurlers will play Clare in a challenge to mark the opening of a new stand at the Doon GAA ground on Sunday. 
