sport gaa
{  
    June 27 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/books/gaa-and-the-game-of-life-26546537.html }
For 125 years the GAA has been an enduring feature of the Irish sporting and cultural landscape. It has provided healthy recreation for generations of young men (and latterly women); it has provided heroes and role models, moments of glory and great sporting occasions; it has lifted the spirits of whole communities, and provided a focus for local loyalty and a sense of community; it has preserved and developed traditional games; and it has helped to define aspects of a distinctive Irish identity, and, surprisingly for a congenitally conservative organisation, it has managed to remain relevant through decades of demographic, social, political and cultural change. There have been histories of the GAA, accounts of games and famous players, but not much in the way of critical academic evaluation and even less in the way of introspection or self-criticism. This collection of papers is an attempt to redress the balance and to place the subject in the context of comparative studies of the social and cultural aspect of sports. The GAA, like all large sporting organisations, is made up of those who play, those who run and those who follow. Players normally play a game because they like it, or are good at it or get satisfaction from playing. Those who follow generally support a winning team, or out of local loyalty, or to be in the fashion. It is the administrators who politicise the activity, who see themselves as the guardians of purity and inherited values and who determine the rhetoric of discourse. This book is largely about the administration of the GAA, mainly because, for academics, that is where the sources are: they kept the minutes, they framed the policy documents, they made the rules, and the statements. Those wishing to hear the clash of ash or get the smell of embrocation in the dressing-room may be disappointed, for this is about the game which bids to supersede all other activity in the GAA -- meetings. A bracing introduction by Diarmuid Ferriter promises more than is actually delivered. Like any collection of papers, a few are outstanding, most are competent, some are merely quaint, and others, like the GAA itself, take themselves too seriously. The single most fascinating essay is that by Tom Hunt on the social make-up of early All-Ireland winning hurling teams. Despite the ambition to make the GAA classless, the teams were dominated by the sons of strong farmers and by family groups. From this and other papers, gaelic games are seen as the pursuit of the rural parish, of farmers' sons and third-level students, and in towns and cities, of the middle-class clerks, civil servants and teachers, occupying the social strata between rugby and soccer: between the nobs and the yobs. Paul Rouse contributes an interesting portrait of Michael Cusack, without whom the GAA would not have happened. He corrects the caricature persisting from Joyce's Citizen, but most GAA members will be surprised by the carefully suppressed news that Cusack was not only very keen on rugby and cricket but a useful exponent of both codes. William Murphy's chapter on the GAA and the Irish Revolution is a carefully modulated re-evaluation which rather contradicts the picture projected by the GAA over the years of a high correlation between membership and military activism -- a version which made it difficult for many to concede a place to the likes of Oscar Traynor and Tod Andrews in the litany of fully fledged patriots. He finds that GAA members, like the wider community, spread right across the spectrum of nationalism, were divided in their commitment to the struggle. A later paper which would have benefited from a similarly nuanced approach is David Hassan's on the GAA in the North, in which the association is presented as virtually the cultural wing of the armed conflict. It is restricted too by emphasis on recent years, in missing the impact of events like Down's breakthrough in the 1960s (in which I must declare an interest) and in wider social and sporting implications. Donal McAnallen's long essay on the GAA's commitment to amateurism is scholarly and thoughtful. It does however stop just short of the emerging problem of mercenary managers and paid coaches. An early example of players being slapped down for daring to be articulate is the treatment of Joe Lennon, a pioneer of coaching in the 1960s who had the cheek to write a book about it. In a Luddite denunciation, the then president, Alf Murray, declared that players should know why they played the games rather than seek to excel in playing them. The same regime shifted the focus from the games, their core activity, to peripheral events, derided by Paddy Downey as deserting the playing field for jigs and reels and tin whistles. Gearoid O Tuathaigh shores up the volume with a magisterial evaluation of the present position of the GAA in Irish life, and identifies the problems facing an organisation rooted in the rural parish and a sense of community in a rapidly urbanising and increasingly atomised society, with competition from other sports in a freer recreational market, and a more inclusive redefinition of the nature of Irishness. One gets the impression that if the GAA were to concentrate more on saving the games than in saving the soul of Ireland, it might do better for both. This is a valuable and provocative collection of essays which might yet prompt somebody to write the great book on the subject. One does miss however the human presence, the absence of the games themselves, of some sense of what makes them what they are, and of their enduring popularity for players and followers alike. There is more to life than meetings. As Roy Fuller put it: We have the snaffle and the curb, but where's the bloody horse?  Maurice Hayes is a former Senator, Northern Ombudsman and Down footballer 
