sport gaa
{  
    April 12 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27359271.html }
C amogie - On Wednesday last over 50 girls attended training at Lixnaw Community Centre. The Club are delighted with the turnout. Training continues in Lixnaw Community Centre this Wednesday night, April 12th and every Wednesday during April from 7 to 8 pm. Cost per night is one euro. Any girl who has a hurley or a helmet, please bring them with you. Ladies Football : Our Senior team brought home the Club’s first silverware of the year, following a comprehensive victory over Southern Gaels in the final of the Pat Lawlor Tournament played in Killorglin last Sunday afternoon. Score : Abbeydorney 6-11 Southern Gaels 5-04. Margaret Lawlor-Slattery presented the Pat Lawlor Cup to winning captain, Norma Shanahan after the game. Shari Delaney was recipient of the Player of the Match award. Team : G. O’Sullivan, N. Shanahan, H. McKenna, B. Slattery, J. Murnane, N. O’Connor, D. Shanahan, K. Kennelly, S. Delaney, L. Ross, E. McElligott, C. Collins, E. O’Mahony, L. Meehan, E. Meehan, E. Sheehan, S. Dowling. Emer O’Mahony and Siobhan Collins represented the Club on the Kerry Minor team that defeated Clare in the Munster C’Ship in Miltown-Malbay last Saturday. Score : Kerry 6-13, Clare 2-01. No underage training this Saturday. U12 game this week-end. Contact Helen on 087-9663704 for details of this game. Abbeyfeale HOLY WEEK Ceremonies in Abbeyfeale - There will be Penitential Service on Tuesday at 7pm with visiting Priests in attendance. Confessions will also be heard after 10am Mass on Wednesday, before and after the ceremonies on Holy Thursday and Good Friday and on Holy Saturday from 10.30 to 12 noon. Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament continues 24 hours until Wednesday at 6pm. Bishop Donal Murray will be the Chief Celebrant at the Mass of the Lord's Supper at 7pm on Holy Thursday. Later at 10pm a Holy Hour for Healing will be held in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel. On Good Friday The Commemoration of the Lord's Passion will take place at 3pm. There will be Taize Prayers at 8pm in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel and Fr. Leo will lead the Stations of the Cross at 9pm in the Main Church. The Divine Mercy Novena commences on Good Friday and continues for 9 days until Low Sunday when there will be a special ceremonies at 3pm in the Church. The Easter Vigil Mass on Holy Saturday will commence at 9pm. There will be Bins provided for the Trocaire Boxes on Easter Saturday night or they can be handed in to the Sacristy. The Liturgy Group have undertaken the sowing of the Garment of Suffering which will be draped on the Cross on Good Friday, Monday is the last day for receipt of pieces of cloth to be included in the Garment. Tir Na OgToddler Group - The Toddler group will not meet during the Easter Holidays but will resume on Thursday April 27th. All children under 5 years with a minder or parent are welcome each Thursday 10.30 to 12.30pm.. Asdar Defibrillator. A defibrillator is available in Abbeyfeale. Please contact 06831615 for further details. GM Free Ireland - GM Free Ireland present a film entitled 'The Future of Food' at The Rathkeale House Hotel on Wednesday 12th. April at 8pm. Kathy Sinnott MEP will attend. Admission free. Health Course - Learn all you need to know about juicing and its benefits. How to use diet to lose weight. The value of seeds and nuts in the diet, stress mangement and much more. The course will be held at St. Ita's Hall, Main St., Abbeyfeale beginning on Monday 1st. May and running from 7pm - 8.30pm and running for 5 weeks. Abbey Teens Foroige Youth Club Congratulations to the three teams who travelled on Friday night last to Ballygran for the North Cork/ Limerick table quiz final. All three teams qualified and are going foward to the finals in West Cork next month. A great night was had by all and all the hard work by the members paid off. Abbeyfeale Farmer‚s Market has moved back to The Square for the summer and will be open from 9am to 1pm each Friday and will feature all the usual favourites including fresh and organic vegetables, home baking, nettle soups, health foods, home crafts, etc. The market will be closed on Good Friday but will open instead on Saturday 15th April. FLEADH - Preparations are continuing for the 2006 Fleadh by the Feale. The Traditional Busking Competitions for the various age categories will go ahead on Friday 28th April starting at 8pm. An afternoon of storytelling with Dan Keane and friends will be held in the convent secondary school on Sunday 30th April at 2.30pm. Tickets for the celebrity concert featuring Four Men and a Dog are now on sale and are available from The Failte bar or any committee member. AWARD - Local young farmer, Padraig O‚Connor, recently won the top award from the Farm Apprenticeship Board (FAB) sponsored Farm Start Awards. The awards are given to top graduates from the Teagasc Farm Management Training programme - the Advanced Certificate in Farm Management. Padraig plans to establish a family milk partnership with his parents on the family farm in Abbeyfeale and will use the Farm Start funds to help finance the project. RUGBY - Abbeyfeale U/16‚s are presently on a first ever club tour to Rome where they will play three games against local opposition as well as taking in all the sights of this historic city. SOCCER - Abbeyfeale Utd U/17‚s, under the management of Frank Nelligan, were crowned champions following a 2-1 win over Glin Rovers in the final. Abbeyfeale scorers were Sean Buck and Maurice Gleeson. Abbeyfeale Utd A defeated Kildimo 1-0 in the league cup, while Abbeyfeale Utd B recorded an 8--2 win over Shountrade in division 2. GAA - In the ACFL Fr Casey‚s were narrowly beaten 2-05 to 0-10 by Drom-Broadford. In the West Limerick U/21 championship semi-final, Fr Casey‚s defeated Glin by 0-13 to 0-6. Asdee A well known Littor Road man launched a new enterprise recently which is taking cyber space by storm. Billy Sweeney who originally hails from Ballybunion has just launched his new greeting cards and posters business on the shores of Littor Strand which have a distinctively religious theme. All the cards carry the "Thank you Jesus" Logo and can be purchased commercially or individually online. Billy has used a lot of the North Kerry landscape on the background of his cards including a few beautiful photos from his new found haven on Littor beach. The inspiration for the religious logo on his cards came from the artistic prowess of one of his family who used the sand at Litter Beach as a drawing board. One day on the strand she showed her artistic prowess and on the sand inscribed "Thank You Jesus" to thank God for the recovery of a close relative who had been ill. Billy thought this would be an ideal name for his new business and after considering everything gave it the stamp of approval. "Thank You Jesus" Greetings Cards and Posters are locally designed are in full colour, and they contain Christian messages of encouragement in times of need or on special occasions. Billy has been on the fast lane from a young age and I can vividly remember him driving in for class at St Joseph's Secondary School in Ballybunion in his mini minor car back in the early 1970's At that time he was the envy of all the students at the school and he set off a new trend with many teenage boys replacing the saddles of their bicycles with steering wheels of cars. Unfortunately that was as close as any of them got to getting their hands on their own car at that particular time. Billy and his family took up residence close to Littor Strand a few years ago and are enjoying the peace and tranquillity of life in this very scenic and serene location. Billy is very optimistic regarding his new business and is confident that it will fill a niche in the greetings cars market. Everyone joins in wishing Billy and his family the very best of luck with his new enterprise. You can find more about the new business at www.thankyoujesuscards.com JOHN HITS THE BIG 40 A well known Asdee West man reached a unique milestone in his life at the weekend when he hit the big 40 mark. John Russell had nothing special organised to mark the occasion other than heading to the village for a few pints. However behind the scenes John's wife Helen was very busy organising a big surprise party. Jesse James Tavern was the venue for the big event where friends and neighbours of the family were invited for the big bash. All the arrangements were kept top secret and the birthday boy was suspecting nothing out of the ordinary as he strolled into Jessies on Saturday night with his wife and family. However he was in for the surprise of his life when he lifted the latch on the door to find a full house present and buntings and balloons all over the place. He was greeted was by all his family and friends wishing him a happy birthday. A large contingent of his family and relatives made the long journey from West Cork for the big occasion. A native of Bantry in West Cork John and his family have been residing in Asdee for a number of years now and have settled in very well to the area. John has carved out a successful career for himself in the Irish Army and has served with a number of Irish peace keeping forces in a number of the troubled spots around the world. A man with a great passion for sport John is a great supporter of the Irish and Munster rugby teams and also great fan of the Rebel County's football and hurling teams. A fanatical Liverpool supporter and follows the fortunes of Cork City with great interest. Despite all the fuss made over him John was as cool as a cucumber and got actively involved in the night of celebration. He showed he is still nimble on his feet as he took to the floor and had plenty of air in the lungs to blow out the candles on his birthday cake. Plenty of nice food was served and young and old alike danced the night away to the sound of local heart throbs the One eyed Jacks. The curtain came down on proceedings with Tullahinell's guitar plucking balladeer John Paul Galvin delivering some fine songs and getting a lot of vocal assistance from the large audience. Everyone joins in saluting John on reaching the 40 mark and wish him and his family the very best for the future. DAWN MASS While the fire has been extinguished on the Easter Dawn Mass on Cnoc an Fhomhair hill locals can still journey over to Tarbert on Easter Sunday morning with the parish hosting its very first Dawn Mass at the Resurrection Monument which is located close to the local church and community centre. Jack Front will be kept well at bay as there will be a Pascal Fire which will be contained in a specially made Furness and some nice hots drinks will also be available. The ceremony begins at 6am so wrap up well and enjoy the ceremony. OBITUARY The community was saddened at the news of the death of Mary Dowling (nee Walsh) of Coolard. Mary was one of the great characters of the area and much admired for her friendliness, sense of humour and generosity of spirit. Very well known all over the North Kerry area Mary always had a kind word and a smile for everyone she met. Deepest sympathy is extended to her sons John and Fr. Timmy, daughter Eileen and all other family members and relatives. EASTER CEREMONIES The following are the Holy Week ceremonies that will be held at St. Mary's Church during Holy Week. The Mass of the Last Supper on Holy Thursday night will be at 7pm with devotions continuing until 10pm. On Good Friday The Passion of Our Lord at 3pm and the Stations of the Cross will be held at 8pm. The Easter Vigil Mass is at 9pm and there will be the usual 10 30am Mass on Easter Sunday morning. There will be Confessions after all the ceremonies during the week and at 12 noon on Saturday. The local church choirs have been burning the midnight oil during the week rehearsing for Holy Week ceremonies and their contributions will enhance the celebration of Easter for the local community. WEDDING BELLS Congratulations and best wishes for the future to Bridget Breen of Asdee West and John Guiney of Dundalk who were married at St Mary's Church in Asdee on last Saturday. The reception was held at The lanterns Hotel in Tarbert with both families having a most enjoyable day. The happy couple met in Australia and will be residing in Germany. THE STORE Midnight Express will be playing at The Store on Easter Sunday from 7 30pm to 10pm. LITTOR ROAD GETS FACELIFT People heading to Littor strand this summer will have easy access to the beach with a magnificent job done on the road last week by Kerry County Council. Part of the road has been widened and the job done on the entrance to the strand has come in for a considerable amount of favourable comment. While we often criticise the council for the poor conditions of local roads we must now salute them on a job superbly done. COMPUTER CLASSES Community I.T.Access, Tarbert, will be commencing Computer training on Tuesday 19th April next.in ECDL, Sage Computerised Accounts, (certificated), Beginners & intermediate level Computers. We also offer one-to-one tuition in our centers or in your own home. We also offer all the usual office services. For further details or to book your place phone or Fax 068 36938, or email us at communityitaccess@gmail.com. PAT JOE O CONNOR MEMORIAL QUIZ Local quiz buffs are asked to come out and support the Pat Joe O Connor Memorial Quiz whish will be held at the Comprehensive School in Causeway on this Good Friday evening April 14th at 9pm One of the great characters of the area Pat Joe lost his brave fight against heart disease two years ago and his death at the relatively young age of 59 touched the hearts of people all over the area. Pat Joe was known the length and breath of the country and he had a long association with table quizzes being a member of teams that won quizzes all over the North Kerry area. Pat Joe also done a lot of fund - raising for charity and always turned up at any charity quizzes that were held in the area. The quiz on Good Friday is to honour his memory and is an opportunity for all those that knew him through the quizzes to turn up and lend their support. The quz master for the night will be Murty Bunyan so some very interesting questions will be on the agenda. The proceeds of the quiz are in aid of the Chernobyl Children's Project. A table of 4 is ?20 while a table for juniors is ?12. As there are plenty interest in table quizzes in Asdee hopeful a few local tables can be organised to support this very worthy cause. GOLF TRIP The local Golf Society will be off on their travels again later in the year with a week long golf trip to the Algarve in Portugal planned for October. The touring party will be flying out from Cork Airport on October 3rd and returning on October 10thl. The package includes, flights from Cork Airport transfers to and from airport and golf courses, accommodation bed and breakfast and 3 games of golf at 3 different golf courses and travel insurance. The total cost of the trip is ?640. The deadline for handing in names for the trip is Sunday April 30th. Already the trip has sparked off a lot of interest so it is most important to get the names in without delay. INFO ON JESSE JAMES A had an e-mail from a Mr Joe Mullins in Australia during the week seeking information on Wild West Outlaw Jesse James and his links with Asdee. While I already have a certain amount of information about him I would welcome any new information or photos. I am particularly looking for anyone that might have a poem about Jesse James or perhaps some local poet might consider composing one. Any material I receive will be well looked after and returned. So if anyone has any relevant information they should contact me by this weekend at the latest. You can phone me at (068) 41404 or e-mail mrice23@eircom.net. FASHION SHOW The very latest in lady's fashions and footwear will be on the catwalk in Ballybunion on this Wednesday night April 19th when the St Joseph's Secondary School Parents Council Host a fund - raising Fashion Show. The venue for the night of glamour and glitz is the Cliff House Hotel and all the leading clothes and shoe shops in the North Kerry and West Limerick areas will be exhibiting their goods. This is the second year that the school has hosted a fashion show and is last year is anything to go by it is a night out not to be missed. The night will commence with a wine and cheese reception at 7 15pm and the curtain for the Fashion Show will come down at 8pm. There will be wide and varied range of ladies, men's and children's fashion on display to appeal to all age groups. All the clothes and footwear will be modelled by the staff and students of the school so it should be a most enjoyable night. Tickets for the event are on sale in all the shops in the town at ?10 or just pop along on the night and enjoy a great show. It is a fund - raiser that deserves good local support and all parents with children attending the school should make a special effort to attend. NEILIE KEANE DROPS IN Regulars at The Store Bar in Craughdarrig had a nice surprise on Saturday when Neilie Keane OF Littor Road made a surprise visit to see the bar under new ownership. Neilie has been in Listowel hospital for quite a while now and his family brought him back home to catch up in happenings since he was away. Many of his good friends and neighbours turned out to welcome him back and he had a couple of sociable drinks and enjoyed meeting up with everyone again. TINTEAN OPENING The Tintean Theatre in Ballybunion will be officially opened by Minister John O'Donoghue TD on this Saturday April 15th. This fine new amenity is now a great asset to the area and all those that brought it to fruition against the odds are to be highly commended. The opening event will be followed by the Theatres own adaptation of Dion Boucicaults 'The Colleen Bawn' which will be the first in-house production to be developed at the Theatre. The splendid new amenity has had a number of hiccups during its construction but now the building is up and running and is a splendid asset to the town from a tourist point of view. TOWNLANDS GOLF Local scrubbers are asked to take note that the local Golf Society are holding an outing at Ardfert Golf Course on Saturday April 22nd. They will replace the outing that had been scheduled for Killorglin and will feature a townlands competition. Already Craughdarrig and Tullahinell have been installed as favourites but as everyone known anything can happen in a parish league so a very exciting competition is in prospect. Already the novel event has aroused a lot of local interest and some very keen competition is in prospect. LOTTO The Asdee Rovers weekly Lottery was held at Jack J's on Sunday night and the Jackpot was not won. The numbers drawn were 1 - 3 - 7 - 21 The lucky dip prize winners were ?50 Anne Bergin, Tullig, Castleisland, ?25 Maurice Flavin, 11 Rusheen, Ballylongford, ?25 Sandra Burke, Ballinorig east, Tralee. Next week's draw is at Jesse James tavern and the Jackpot is ?4,400. SOCCER Asdee Rovers bid to progress to the next round of the Greyhound Bar Cup is put on hold when they played out a scoreless draw with Quarry Park Rangers at Tralee on Sunday. The sides will have to meet again to decide the issue. UNDER 13 The Asdee under 13 are having a very good run in recent weeks with two good results that has given them a good chance of winning the league title. They turned in a fine performance against Ballyhar winning on a 2 - 0 scoreline. The scorers were Peter Cook and Cormac Walsh. On last Saturday they made the journey to Kilarney and came away with a very satisfactory 1 - 1 draw with Kilarney Celtic. The goal scorer was Cormac Walsh. This was a very good all round performance by the team and if they can draw or win their remaining title they will life the title which would be a marvellous achievement. G.A.A. The Asdee senior and junior teams opened their North Kerry League programme during the week but both teams were defeated in their opening games. The senior team were pipped at the post by near neighbours and fellow parishioners Ballylongford B in the opening round of the Div 2 league played at Walsh Park on Saturday evening. This was a most entertaining contest with both sides playing some outstanding football which kept the good sized attendance on their toes throughout. After a slow start Asdee got into their stride and aided by a slight breeze hit the front by the 10th minute only for Ballylongford to draw level by the end of the First quarter. Then between the 18th and 21st minutes the home side hit a purple patch scoring 3 fantastic goals from Charles Dalton Paul Hanlon and Niall Doran and at this stage it looked like a home victory was on the cards as they held a commanding 8 point lead at the interval Asdee 3 - 05 Ballylongford 0 - 6. However in the second half things were quickly to change as the visitors really got stuck in and inspired by Tomas Denneh they laid siege to the Asdee goals. Asdee were finding it difficult to put scores on the board and by the 22nd minute the sides were all square. Then a minute later Derek Nolan hit the winner after a good run through the middle and this proved to be the winner. Asdee did have an opportunity to draw level but having to score direct from a difficult angled kick Michael Walsh delivery dropped short as the final whistle sounded. Certainly the result was disappointing to say the least not because it was a local derby game but for the simple reason that Asdee should have this game wrapped up but the squandering of some easy scoring opportunities and some sloppy passing was in the end to prove their downfall. But in fairness our very much under strength side played their hearts out and were unlucky to at least get a draw. The final score was Ballylongford B 1 - 14 Asdee A 3 - 07 Team James Kelly Dinny Dalton Sean Stack Donal O Carroll Brian O Hanlon 0 - 2 Noil Long Sean McElligott Padraig Ruddle John Doran Niall Doran 1 - 0 Mike Long Miche†l Walsh 0 - 4 Charles Dalton 1- 0 Paul Hanlon 1 - 1 Brian Coughlan. Subs Danny Finucane for Niall Doran David O Connor for Brian O Hanlon and Thomas Mulvihill for Danny Finucane. JUNIOR TEAM The B squad travelled to Brosna to take on the locals but found the home team in no mood for any favours and were defeated by a comprehensive 16 point margin. Brosna led at the interval by an 8 point margin and in a one sided second half continued where they let off an when the final whistle sounded the better team without doubt won. One of the highlights of the game from an Asdeee point of view was a very well taken goal from Mike Long during the second half . The other scorers were Dan Kearney 0 -2 Niall Doran Paul O Hanlon one point each completed the scoring for Asdee. The final score was Brosna 4 - 11 Asdee 1 - 04 FIXTURES County League Div 5 Sat April 15th at Templenoe 7pm Asdee v Templenoe. McCarthys Insurance Brokers League Div 2 At Walsh Park Tue April 12th at 7pm Asdee A v Moyvane B Div 4 Asdee B v Gale Rangers Check with Club Officers for further details Next County League game W/E of April 23rd home to Kilgarvan COLLECTION A Bord Na Nog collection will be taken up at all Masses at the local St Marys Church this weekend. Good local support would be greatly appreciated. SHANNON RANGERS The Shannon Rangers G.A.A. Club wish to thank everyone who supported their Guess the Score competition for last weeks Kerry v Dublin National League Game which was a great success. Ballybunion CUCKOO WALKING FESTIVAL: The first Cuckoo Walking Festival in Tarbert will take place from Friday April 28th to Monday May 1st 2006. There are walks to suit every kind of walker from the leisurely stroller to the more adventurous trekker. For further information contact Tarbert Bridewell (068) 36500 or log onto www.tarbert.ie ST JOSEPH’S Secondary School Golf Tournament: Congratulations to Graham Hannon, Aidan Hayes, Steven Galvin and Darren Enright who won the School tournament last Saturday. They were sponsored by Ballybunion Credit Union, Doolan Painting Contractors, Listowel and St Joseph’s Secondary School. The day was a greata success. St Joseph’s wish to express their gratitude to all the people who played on the day and those who gave voluntary donations. The winners had the excellent score of 10 under. ALL-IRELAND playoffs tournament 2006: Congrats to the second and first year basketball teams who have qualified for the All-Ireland playoffs in Clonmel on April 29/30. They will be playing in pool 2. The best of luck to all involved and to Mr Daly adn Miss C Mulvihill. Ballybunion tidy towns committee are looking for more members to join the group, if interested please ring (068)27354, or 0862100729 Sinn Fein Easter Commemorations - Sinn Fein will hold two ceremonies in North Kerry to commemorate the Easter Rising of 1916. In Listowel on Easter Saturday evening, a march will commence at O'Connell's Avenue at 6.30 and will proceed to the Republican Plot at St. Michael's Cemetery. On Easter Sunday, a march will commence at Denny St. at 3 pm and will proceed to Rath Cemetery. Special Guest Speaker: Barry McElduff, MLA from Tyrone. TREASURE HUNT: This Thursday, April 13 is the Childrens Treasure Hunt. Children are asked to be at Kilcoolys Bar, Ballybunion at 11.30am. Hunt begins at 12 sharp. Come along for afternoon tea in Kilcoolys Bar this Thursday, April 13 from 11.30 onwards. Tea and coffee, homebaked goods. Friday, April 21 there will be a jumble sale in Ballybunion Community Centre. This is your chance to clean out your rooms. If anyone has anything you want to donate, please drop it into the centre by Wednesday, April 19 at the latest. No clothes or shoes will be accepted. Alternatively you can sell your own belongings on the night by renting a stall. For details call 087 2700541. HEART FOUNDATION COLLECTION: Betty Hartnett wishes to thank everyone who helped with the collection last weekend. The amount collected was ?1150. Ballyduff HOSPICE WALK: The Ballyduff branch of the Kerry Hospice Foundation will hold its Annual Charity Walk on this Friday (Good Friday), April 14 commencing at Cashen Pier at 5pm. Sponsorship cards available from Kay Enright, Kilmore on 066 7131015. Everybody welcome. QUIZ: The Pat Joe O’Connor Memorial Quiz in aid of Chernobyl Children’s fund will be held in the Sports Hall, Causeway on Good Friday at 9pm. Tables cost ?20 for adultys and ?12 for juniors. Please supporty this very worthy cause. Everybody is welcome. CONFIRMATION: Congrats to the boys and girls of the parish who received the Sacrament of Confirmation at Causeway Church on Friday last. IRISH NIGHT: Ballyduff branch of CCE will hold a night of music, song and dance at Lowes Bar, Ballyduff on this Saturday night. All musicians, singers and dancers are welcomed to come along. All welcome. PUB QUIZ: On behalf of the Parents Association of Sliabh a Mhadra NS, we would like to thank everybody who supported us in our recent pub quizes. Thanks to all the bars and our supporters. A special word of thanks to quizmaster Murty Bunyan who did a wonderful job each night. ?3300 was raised for our school. GOLF CLASSIC: Ballyduff GAA Club held a Golf Classic at Ballyheigue Castle Golf course on Saturday last. 1, Cavanaghs of Charleville. 2, Pat Whelan’s team. 3rd, James O’Sullivan’s team. Longest drive, Tom Griffin, Kilmoyley. Nearest the pin: Aidan Boyle, Ballyduff. Ballyduff GAA club wishes to thank the main organisers John Pierse and Mike Joe Quinlan, Ballyheigue Castle Golf Club, teams that participated an d all our sponsors. GAA FIXTURES: Wed, April 12, NK u16 hurling, Abbeydorney v Ballyduff at Abbeydorney 6.30pm. Friday April 14, Co u14 hurling, Causeway v Ballyduff at Causeway, 7pm Friday, April 14, Co SFL Div 4, Ballyduff v Brosna, at Ballyduff 7pm. Sunday, April 16: Co u14 football, Spa v Ballyduff at Killarney, 6pm. Monday, April 17: NK u16 football, Emmets v Ballyduff at Listowel, 7.30pm. Monday, April 17: Co SHL Div 1, Abbeydorney v Ballyduff at Abbeydorney 7pm. Tuesdasy, April 18: NK u16 hurling, Ballyduff v Lixnaw at Ballyduff 6.30pm. NK Junior Football, Tarbert v Ballyduff at Tarbert 7.30pm. Wed, April 19: Co U14 football, Ballyduff v Lispole at Ballyduff 7.30pm. Please check with club officers and team mentors re above fixtures. Ballyheigue ST.Brendans AC - Congratulations to Mark Dineen who won a bronze medal recently at the All Ireland Indoor Athletics Championships. Mark competed in the 1500m walk, this was Marks first time representing the club at national level and we are very proud of his great effort. Training is now being held in Ardfert on Tuesday and Thursday evenings anyone interested in joining can ring Theresa 7134006/0874134468. Sinn Fein Easter Commemorations - Sinn Fein will hold two ceremonies in North Kerry to commemorate the Easter Rising of 1916. In Listowel on Easter Saturday evening, a march will commence at O'Connell's Avenue at 6.30 and will proceed to the Republican Plot at St. Michael's Cemetery. On Easter Sunday, a march will commence at Denny St. at 3 pm and will proceed to Rath Cemetery. Special Guest Speaker: Barry McElduff, MLA from Tyrone. HOSPICE FOUNDATION: The annual walk for the Hospice Foundation will be on Good Friday April 14. Please join us at 11am at the Castle Gate and support this very worthy cause. COMMUNITY IT ACCESS Ballyheigue will be commencing computer training on Tuesday, April 19 next in ECDL, Sage Computerised Accounts (Certified), Beginners and Intermediate level computers. We also offer one to one tuition in our centres or in your own home. We also offer all the usual office services. For further details please phone or fax 066 7116854 or email us at communityaccess@emoir.com FAMILY RESOURCE CENTRE: Youth drop in centre will have their grand opening on Thursday, April 27 from 7-9.30 COMMUNITY GAMES: Congrats to Ella Horgan who won a gold medal in the u10 backstroke and Kieran O’Hara who also won gold in the u14 back stroke at the swimming county finals. SCHOOL DRAW: Glenderry School fundraising committee wish to thank all those who sponsored prizes and made donations to their fundraiser, also thanks to all those who put such a great effort into selling tickets and to everybody who purchased tickets. The funds raised will be extremely beneficial to Scoil Naomh Erc. The draw for 28 prizes was held on Friday last ath the school. Fr Pierse and Sergeant Helen O’Regan attended the draw. ATHLETICS: All Ireland indoor championships werre held in Nenagh last weekend. congrats to Mark Dineen on winning a bronze medal in u14 1000m walk. DEATH: The death took place during the week of Johnny Casey, The Village. He is survived by his wife Lena, daughters, grandchildren, great grandchildren, sons in law, sister in law, nephews, nieces and friends. Burial on Monday in the Holy Family Cemetery, Ballyheigue. Johnny played at corner forward with Ballyheigue in the 1941 Co Hurling final which went to a replay. He served as treasurer of the club and treasurer of the North Kerry Hurling Board for many years. He was a selector with the Kerry senior hurling team and he also played his part in the purchase of the sportsfield. Ar dheis De go raibh a anam. GAA: The Ballyheigue senior hurlers defeated Causeway in the North Kerry League on Monday evening at Ballyheigue by 0-10 to 1-5. Our u-16s hurlers defeated St Brendans in Round 2 of the North Kerry championship at Ardfert on Tuesday by 2-9 to 3-3. The Intermediate team had a good win over Kilmoyley in the North Kerry League at Lerrig on Wednesday, full time score Ballyheigue 4-5 Kilmoyley 0-5. FIXTURES: Co U14 league, Ballyheigue v Abbeydorney at Ballyheigue on Friday 7pm. Co Senior hurling league, Ballyheigue v Lixnaw at Lixnaw, Monday, April 17, 7pm. North Kerry U-16 Ballyheigue v Duagh at Duagh on Wednesday, April 19 at 7pm. GOLF CLASSIC: The Ballyheigue GAA club will hold its annual golf classic at Ballyheigue Golf course this Saturday, April 15. YOUTH CLUB: Ballyheigue Youth Club had a very successful County Final Day. Our u-15 girls soccer team won the County Final and are now representing Kerry in Limerick on April 23, 2006. Our Hip Hop dancers also won and they are participating in County Final on the same day. Our other teams, over 15 girls soccer team, under 15 boys soccer team, unihoc under 15 mixed team and our quiz team all competed with great distinction but sadly did not qualify for Limerick. Proposed trips to Wales, the Youth Club members are doing a 10km sponsored walk in Ballyheigue on Sunday, April 30 to raise funds for their trip to Oakwood Theme Park in Wales. Members will be calling with sponsorship cards and any support would be greatly appreciated. GOLF CLASSIC: A once off golf classic is being held in Ballyheigue Golf Club on May 13 to raise funds for the above trip. Anyone interested can contact either the Clubhouse or any of the Youth Club leaders. DANCING CLASSES: Th dancing class ended for the year last Friday evening. The Ballyheigue Comhaltas branch thank Marie Hannifin class teacher for the good work. COURSING CLUB: There was no winner of this week’s jackpot. Numbers drawn were 13, 16, 17, 21. Consolation winners: ?50 each, Christina Murnane and Peggy Ryan c/o Centra; ?25 each, B Breen, Doon, Tralee and Martin Casey, Kilcooley. Next week’s jackpot will be worth ?3,600 and the draw will be held at the White Sands Hotel on Sunday night. QUIZ: The Pat Joe O'Connor Memorial Quiz will take place on Good Friday Night April 14th in Causeway Sports Hall at 9pm. Tables of 4 Adults 20 euro, Youths 12 euro. All proceeds on the night go to the Chernobyl Children‚s Project. Please support this worthy cause. Ballylongford EASTER GREETINGS: To all our readers both at home and away may I take this oppurnity of wishing you all a very Happy and enjoyable Easter Holiday. EASTER CERMONIES: The following are the Easter Ceremony arrangements for St Michaels Church during Holy Week. Holy Thursday (Mass of the Lord’s Supper) will be at 8pm. Good Friday (Celebration of the Lord’s Passion) will be at 3pm. Stations of the Cross on Good Friday Night at 8pm. Holy Saturday (The Easter Vigil Mass) will be at 9pm. Masses on Easter Sunday Morning will be at 9am and 11.30am. Confessions: On Tonight Wednesday 12th April there will be Confessions at 8pm in which a number of visiting priests will be available to hear confessions. Confessions will also take place after all ceremonies during Holy Week and also on Easter Saturday between 12 noon and 1pm. YOUTH CLUB: The local Youth Club are going to Cappanalee Educational Centre on this coming Easter Saturday April 15th The arrangements are as follows: The Club are leaving at 8am sharp on Saturday morning. Members are required to bring a packed lunch, change of cloths, swim suit, towels and old runners. This trip will be the last activity of the Youth Club for this period as there is on-going work being carried out to the Eddie Carmody Community Centre. The youth club will start again in September. Details of which will appear in these notes. IRISH KIDNEY ASSOCIATION: The Irish Kidney Association Organ Donor Awareness Week took place from 1st - 8th April, 2006. While this notice may be a little late in being published, it is never too late to make a donation to this most worthy cause. The focus of this Annual life saving campaign is to seek support from the public in highlighting the ongoing need for organ donation for transplantation and encouraging more people to carry an organ donor card. All donations received will go towards the Irish Kidney Association’s support programme for patients on dialysis and those patients fortunate enough to have received a kidney transplant as well as the Irish Donor Network’s education programme on Organ Donation for Transplantation. The Irish Kidney Association, in collaboration with Irish Donor Network (a group of Irish patients charities and medical co-ordinators in organ and tissue transplantation), has overall responsibility for the distribution and promotion of the organ donor card in Ireland. Organ donor cards and information factfiles are available from Pharmacies, Doctors Surgeries and Citizen Information Bureaus. The IKA relies heavily on voluntary fundraising to support its wide ranging activities. The IKA employs no canvassers or paid collectors. All funds collected go directly to the organisation's support services and research sponsorship. Bequests and donations are constantly required - as is assistance from companies, clubs and individuals. Organ donor cards can also be obtained by phoning the Irish Kidney Association at Locall 1890 KIDNEY (1890 543639) or text the word DONOR and your name and address to 53377. Donations can be made at any time directly to the Irish Kidney Association, Donor House, Block 43A, Park West, Dublin 12. Credit card donations are welcome. Email info@ika.ie BASKETBALL - Congratulations and well done to Naomh Laichtin’s Eadaoin O’Hanlon and Geraldine O’Connor who coached the Tarbert Comprehensive first-year girls Basketball team which have qualified for the All-Ireland Plate competition at the County Basketball Finals held in Mercy Covent, Mounthawk Tralee on Monday last. A great win over Intermediate School Killorglin, brought Tarbert to the Final. Killorglin had an outstanding player who had scored 15 to 20 points in their league games, but sterling defence by Karen FitzGerald and Sinead O’Hanlon kept her score in single figures. Tarbert’s defence was still good in the final against one of the best first year teams that Abbeyfeale has ever produced, but our offence could make no headway against a strong and well-organised opposition. We wish Abbeyfeale all the best in the All-Ireland Tournament and we hope that the consumption of Easter eggs will not come against Tarbert’s chance in the Plate Competition. The other local players on the team are Brenda Dineen and Cathy Shannon with Maire Hitchen of Ballybunnion, Eileen McCarthy, Moyvane and team captain Ciara Trant of Glin. KERRY COUNTY FLEADH CHEOIL: On last weekend the Kerry County Fleadh Cheoil was held in Milltown. Well done to all whom competed from the local Ballylongford / Tarbert Comhaltas Branch namely P.J.Mulvihill, Stephen Foley, Caoimhe Geoghegan, Anita O’ Donovan, Yvonne O’ Brien, Ciara Hartnett, Cait McEllistrim and Emily Wren. Congratulations to the following local competitors whom won County Titles or were placed. All of the following now go on to the Fleadh Cheoil na Mumhan which will be held in Lismore Co. Waterford in July. 3rd place Singing: Saoirse O’ Connor. Senior Accordian Winner: Michael Collins. Senior Banjo Winner: Tommy O’ Donovan. Mary McEllistrim Comhra Gaeilge. Jason Foley 2nd Place Banjo. Congratulations also to Eoin Wren whom was a member of the victorious Moyvane Ceili Band, and to John Fennell whom came 1st in the Bodhran and Drums competitions, John was a member of the Ballydonoghue Branch. We wish all these competitors every success in their bid for Munster and hopefully All Ireland titles in the very near future. WALLY’S SEA FEARING CLASSES: For all those interested in Water Safety and in particular boating safety there are safety courses held fortnightly at the Saleen Quay Boat House. At these Classes all information on Tides, Weather, Sea Charts, Knot Tying and Sea and Boat Safety are covered along with other important issues concerning safety in the water are demonstrated. These meetings take place on every second Wednesday night between 7.30pm and 9pm. This Weeks Meeting Takes place on tonight Wednesday April 12th all are welcome to attend. KERRY RADIO COUNTRY WIDE PROGRAMME: On Sunday night next (Easter Sunday) April 16th don’t forget to tune into Radio Kerry between 9pm and 10pm when the Countrywide programme with Sean Crowley comes from Ballylongford. This programme was pre recorder at Michael Finucanes Bar recently. REHAB WIN: Congratulations to local man Patsy (Martin) O’ Connor Clounamon whom was the lucky winner of ?200 in the recent Radio Kerry Rehab Bingo Draw. Well done. TIDY TOWNS: The local Enterprise Association are organising a “Clean Up Evening” in which they are seeking volunteers to help out in cleaning and tidying up the local community. This particular exercise is in preparation for this years Tidy Towns Competition in which adjudicators will be visiting the area within the next month. This “Clean Up Evening” will be held on Monday April 24th. In which the organisers are looking for voluntary workers to help out. People interested are asked to assemble at the Old Creamery at 7pm. Further details next week. FUN TABLE QUIZ: A group of local women are fundraising for various charitable organisations at the moment, and on Thursday Night April 20th the group are holding a Fun Table Quiz at Gerry O’ Connor’s Bar, Main Street commencing at 9.30pm (Sharp). The funds made from this table quiz will go towards these various charitable organisations and in particular part of the proceeds will go towards the Cherybonial Fund. So please your support would be greatly appreciated. BALLYLONGFORD GOLF CLASSIC: This years Ballylongford Golf Classic was a huge success and the organisers wish to thank everybody who participated and in particular extend sincere thanks to the large number of sponsors who gave so generously to this event. This year’s event was held in Ballybunion Golf Club on Saturday last April 8th and played over the Cashen Course with a full time sheet. Saturday was a very nice day but very windy on the course, while this proved to be a little tricky it did not in any way hinder a marvellous competition. After a very successful day the prizes were presented by last years Club Captain and local man Michael Shanahan as this years Captain Ger Bourke was not available due to other commitments. The Winners were as follows: 1st Place: Sean O’ Sullivan, Tom Stack, Mike Broderick, Billy McSweeney on 95pts. 2nd Place: John Stack, Kieran Barry, Tom O’ Driscoll, Jim McKenna on 93pts. 3rd Place: Jody Fitzmaurice, Pat Shanahan, Donal Kearney, Chris Flaherty on 93pts. 4th place: Kevin Reidy, Mike Hanley, Willie Foley, P.J.Beech on 92pts. 5th Place: Maurice McEllistrim, Mary McEllistrim, Richard McEllistrim, Paddy Murphy on 91pts. 6th Place: Noel Sheehan, Liam Sheehy, Barry Sheehan, Joe Dore on 91pts. 7th Place: Con O’ Connor, Shane O’ Connor, P. Prendeville, Donagh Shanahan 90pts. 8th Place: Tom Roche, Noel Fennell, John Faley, Noel Lynch on 90pts. SAILING & CANOEING CLASSES: This years Sailing and Canoeing Classes will again be held at Saleen Pier during the Summer holidays. Names are now been taken for this years classes, as the organisers want to ensure that everything is in place well before the holidays. Names must be given to either of the following as soon as possible please: Breda Barden Bridge Street, or Marie (Hanrahan) O’ Neill Ahanagran. COISTE NA NOG: The following are the Under Age football fixtures for the coming week: This Wednesday evening April 12th Our Under 14 Team travel to O’ Sullivan park Finuge to play Finuge this game has a throw in time of 7.30pm. Monday April 16th our Under 16 team are at Home in the Walsh Park Asdee time 7.30pm. Wednesday April 19th our under 14 Team play St Senans in O’ Rahilly Park throw in time here is 7.30pm. LENAMORE ROVERS SOCCER: The following are the results of this week’s lotto draw which was held at the Horse and Hound Bar on Sunday night April 9th. The Two Jackpots were not won. Jackpot No.1: ?3,000 Numbers were: 2, 4, 10, 11. Jackpot No.2: ?2,500 Number’s Drawn 1, 6, 9, 11. The three ?30 Lucky Dip Winners were: Michael Finucane (jnr) Quay Street, Rodger O’ Sullivan Glin Co. Limerick. Maurice & P.J. C/o The rovers Return. Next Weeks draw will be at Michael O’ Carroll’s Bar. BALLYLONGFORD G.A.A. SCENE: Our Senior Team bowed of the Quarter Finals of The Buildstone League Division 1 on Friday evening last in Moyvane where Brosna proved to be too strong on this occasion. This very low performance display by Bally was somewhat disappointing as the side failed to raise any flag of any description in the opening half. Despite being without the services of a few key players namely Paddy Kelly, Stephen & Liam Foley. The team never really fired on the night and on several occasions missed vital scoring chances. But hopefully this poor display will be the last for the year and the players need to put this display behind them and concentrate on the future and in particular gaining promotion in the County League. But fair play to Brosna they played some lovely football and kicked some very impressive scores throughout and won on the scoreline 0-17 to 0-04. Brosna now go forward to play Beale in the Semi Final. The Ballylongford team in action were: Peter O’ Brien, Stephen Mulvihill, Pat Kennelly, Martin Higgins, Brendan Bambury, William Keane, Derek Nolan. Shane O’ Hanlon, Tomas Dennehy, Paul O’ Hanlon, Niall Heaphy, Sean Kennelly, Paul O’ Donoghue, Liam Weir. Subs: Timmy Foley for Shane O’ Hanlon. Padraig Collins for Derek Nolan. County League: Our Seniors play St Senan’s on Sunday next in Round 3 of Division 5 at the O’ Rahilly Park (check fixtures re time in Willie O’ Connor’s Notes). It is essential that the team pick themselves up after their recent defeat and again concentrate on the game in hand. A good result here would keep the team in the top of the table position. North Kerry League Division 2: Our Junior Team had their first outing of the year on Saturday evening last when they played fellow parishioners St Mary’s Asdee at Walsh Park Asdee. This was a nail biting and tense affair all through with never more than a point separating the sides at any time. In the end the Bally boys were that extra point ahead at the final whistle on the scoreline Bally 1-14 Asdee 3-07 and so earn their first two points of the season. The team in action were. Bartly O’ Connell, William Keane, Stephen Kennelly, Pat Kennelly, Daniel Leane, Martin Higgins, Paudie Moroney, Padraig Collins, Derek Nolan, Sean Kennelly, Tomas Dennehy, Danny Moynihan, Tommy Mulvihill, Aidrian Walsh, Eamon Flavin, Subs: J. McCarthy for Danny Moynihan. Brian O’ Connor for Eamon Flavin. Aidan Neville for Tommy Mulvihill. Lotto Results: The following are the results of the Club Lotto Draw for Sunday April 9th which was held at The Highfielder Bar. The Jackpot of ?7,150 was not won. The Numbers drawn were: 9, 11, 14, 20. the Four ?25 Lucky Dip winners were: Eileen O’ Shea Sand Quay, Michael McEnery Limerick, Richard Kissane Asdee, and Gene Glover Lenamore. The Bar Prize sponsored by John & Julia Dempsey was won by Tom Lyons Graffa. Next weeks Jackpot is for ?7225 and the Draw will be held at The Horse and Hound Bar. Ballymacelligott THE Ballymacelligott Active Retirement Association - The association helds it AGM on the 4 April at Kielduff Community Centre. Outgoing officers were Mary Collins, Chairperson, Peg Lynch, Secretary, Nora Walsh remains on as Treasurer. Newly elected officers were Eileen Sheehy, Chairperson and Kathleen O'Neill as Secretary. Committee members elected were Rita Heffernan, MAry Hanlon, Kitty Marchant, Jenny O'Sulivan and Mary Kirby. A presentation was made to both Mary Collins and Peg Lynch for their committment and hard work to the club over the years. KERRY GAA Supporters Club - Membership for 2006 is now due. Kerry teams need your support. Only paid up members can travel on coaches to matches. Membership cards are vailable from Jerry Savage 087 672 4641. Looking forward to a great year. Ballymacelligott GAA Lotto - Jackpot Not Won. No's drawn were 7,13,14,16. Lucky dip winners were Tom Lyons, Tom Herlihy, Jim O'Brien, Gary Savage, Maurice Dunne and the sellers prize to Tom Leen. New jackpot is E8,350. Draw at Glenduff Hse Ballymac Handball Notes - Three Young women from the Club were in action, at All Ireland level last weekend. Maria Daly [Magh], Ashley Prendeville and Sharon Twomey [Ballydwyer]. Maria and Ashley teamed up as they took on Fiona Shannon and Aisling O Reilly [Antrim], in the Ladies 40x20 Senior Doubles All Ireland Final in Moycullen [Galway]. The two Ballymac girls put up a great fight, but went down in two games to the Northern girls. It was a great achievement for both girls to get to the Final, of the Premier Competition in the Country. Maria and Ashley have the best years of their playing careers ahead of them, and no doubt will be back in the future. Sharon Twomey [Ballydwyer] brought home the first Juvenile Gold Medal to the County, when she beat Avril Mc Namee [Donegal] in the U16 Singles 40x20 All Ireland Final. Sharon has put in a lot of work this year in the Court, and it paid off handsomely the last day. She cruised through both games, to garner the first All Ireland Winners Medal for the Club. Sharon has tremendous ability, and will surely follow in the footsteps of Maria and Ashley. Well done to the three girls for their achievements, and we wish them all the best for the remainder of the year. Next weekend Ashley partners Karen Lawlor [Tralee], in the All Ireland Final of the Ladies 40x20 Minor Doubles. They will be playing the Roscommon pairing of Katie Costello and Marianna Rushe. Juvenile Training: - Handball Coaching for last year‚s participitants and beginners [Tuesday evenings] will discontinue for the next two weeks due to the Easter break. It will recommence on Tuesday April 25 @ 7pm. A more detailed rundown of games/events during the week are available, in the Sports Section of The Kerryman.It has the full results of all games during the week, and the details of any forthcoming Fixtures/Events. SINN FEIN Easter Commemorations - Sinn Fein will hold two ceremonies in North Kerry to commemorate the Easter Rising of 1916. In Listowel on Easter Saturday evening, a march will commence at O'Connell's Avenue at 6.30 and will proceed to the Republican Plot at St. Michael's Cemetery. On Easter Sunday, a march will commence at Denny St. at 3 pm and will proceed to Rath Cemetery. Special Guest Speaker: Barry McElduff, MLA from Tyrone. GAA: Seniors: The third round of the County League will take place in Tarbert next weekend. This game is scheduled to be played on Saturday evening April 15th at 7 pm. Congratulations: Ballymac GAA Club extend its congratulations to Kieran, Anne and Cora Savage, Kielduff, on the birth of their baby boy. Coiste na nOg: U/16 - To date our U/16 team have won all their games in both the Castleisland District and Coiste Tra Li competitions. Castleisland District: With victories against Currow, Castleisland Desmonds and Cordal our remaining games are away to Knocknagoshel/Brosna on Thursday April 13th at 6.30 p.m. and our final 1st round game is away to Churchill on Sunday 30th April. Coiste Tra Li With wins against John Mitchels and Castleiisland Desmonds the following games are outstanding – away to Austin Stacks B on Tuesday 11th April – Home to Na Gael Tuesday 18th April – Home to Listowel Emmetts on Thursday 20th April. U/14 County League - Having made the long journey’s to both Waterville and Portmagee without any success the following are the games to be played – Wednesday 12th April we play at home to Cordal/Scartaglin. On Easter Monday 17th April at 7 p.m. we are at home to Churchill. U/12 With our County League 1st round game away to An Ghaeltacht Sunday 23rd April at 7 p.m. training continues Good Friday 14th at 2 p.m. U/10, U/8, U/6 Our final indoor training session is on Good Friday morning U/10 – 11 a.m. – 12 noon; U/6 and U/8 – 12 noon – 1 p.m. Admission ?2.00 Commencing Sunday 23rd April outdoor training/fun/games in Ballymac G.A.A. grounds from 11 a.m. – 12.30 p.m. Parents please ensure that the appropriate registration form is completed for each child. Registration cost ?10.00. We would like to thank Tom Herlihy, Bridget Leen and Johnny O’Connor our senior player, who all took time off work to visit all the four schools in the parish on Thursday 6th April. The school/club link is a vital factor in promoting our games. Scor a bPaisti: The Castleisland District Competition was held in Knocknagoshel recently and we would like to congratulate both Nohoval and Clogher Schools who took part. Clogher won instrumental music with Eimear Lynch, Anna Prendiville and Cormac Lynch. Also well done to all others who participated in the quiz, sole singing, set dancing, figure dancing and recitation on the night. ICA THE Spring Federation meeting of Kerry ICA was held in Moyvane on Sunday, March 12. Federation President, Madge Davis, presided and 22 guilds attended. After the prayer votes of sympathy were passed to bereaved members. Eileen Roche, President of Moyvane Guild welcomed members to their fine comfortable hall. The minutes of the Winter meeting and Treasurers report were read and noted. WALK FOR BREAST CANCER RESEARCH: A total sum of ?11,538 was collected in Kerry in 2005. Half of this amount will be presented to the breast cancer unit in Kerry General Hospital and the other half will be forwarded to the Research Unit in Galway. The walk for 2006 will be held in Farranfore on Sunday, May 7 at 2.30pm. Cards and t shirts are available from sports officer, Breda Quirke. Breda would like to see a sports officer in each guild, keep it in mind for your AGM. COMPETITIONS: Details are with Guild Secretaries. The pencil sketch for the Beaumont Cup for art must be in for April 21. Keep the cameras to hand for the Summer and capture an architectural building. Closing date in September. The brown bread competition was won by Anne Kearney of Spa/Fenit Guild. The Easter bonnet was on in a joint effort by Eily Kennedy, and Cait Lynch of Annascaul, with Hazel Evans of Camp coming 2nd. Congrats to all. SEACHTAIN NA GAEILGE: Our Timire, Joan attended this week at An Grianan and gave her report. Congrats to Eibhlin Ui Neill who won the Fonas Na Gaeilge Scholarship. INTERNATIONAL OFFICER: Siobhan gave a very detailed account of International week at An Grianan. KERRY WEEK AT AN GRIANAN: Is from June 12 to 16. Regional meeting in Tullamore, Madge, Bridie and Monica gave their report on this meeting. Tuosist Guild will be celebrating 40 years together in May. The meeting concluded with a delicious tea. Beale BEALE GAA - Beale Seniors are at home to St. Pats on Saturday next April 15th in the 3rd round of the County League. Beale Juniors - Beale Juniors started off their North Kerry League campaign with an impressive win over Tarbert on Sunday last in Ballybunion. Final score Beale 9-8 Tarbert 1-4. Gaelic Telecom - Beale GAA is asking for your support, in a way that benefits both you and the club. Gaelic Telecom provides on average a saving of 30% on your home and business phone bill, while your nominated club receives the benefit of 15%. In the next week Beale Gaa will be writing to all club members in relation to Gaelic Telecom, or alternatively you can contact our Gaelic Telecom Co-Ordinator Katie Browne on 087-7813734. Brosna CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL, Crumlin: Dolly McAuliffe who has done trojan work in raising money for Our Lady’s Hospital for Sick Children, Crumlin, had a churchgate collection at the weekend in both Brosna and Knockaclarig and received ?565.72 for the hospital. She wishes to thank everyone who gave so generously. Later this year she hopes to go to Vancouver on another of her marathon walks to raise more money for them. She deserves all the support she can get. DEATH: The death occurred early last Tuesday morning of Rory Horan, The Cross, after a long illness. Rory, who was 72 years of age last month, died at home surrounded by the love of his wife Hannah, daughter Breda, son Nelius, grandchildren Siobhan and Dafyd, sister Sr Peter and brother Fr Nelius and son in law Glenn Philips. He was predeceased by his brother Danny eleven months ago and by brothers DC, Tom and Jimmy some years previously. After Requiem Mass on Thursday, Rory was laid to rest in the new cemetery. To Hannah and all the family we offer our sincerest sympathy. May he rest in peace. GAA: The junior team beat asdee last tuesday night in the first round of the NK league with goals from paul reidy,john o shea, jimmy keane & a penalty from john downey. lineout M O'Sullivan, P Curtin, B Woods, D O'Connell, D Curtin,K Curtin,A Brown, T Leahy, M Murphy, J O Shea, P Reidy, J Downey, J Keane, D O Donoughe, J Guiney. The team will be managed again this year by Timmy Cahill and captain for the year will be Jimmy Keane. Sinn Fein Easter Commemorations - Sinn Fein will hold two ceremonies in North Kerry to commemorate the Easter Rising of 1916. In Listowel on Easter Saturday evening, a march will commence at O'Connell's Avenue at 6.30 and will proceed to the Republican Plot at St. Michael's Cemetery. On Easter Sunday, a march will commence at Denny St. at 3 pm and will proceed to Rath Cemetery. Special Guest Speaker: Barry McElduff, MLA from Tyrone. Camp OBITUARY: The news of the death of Mary Quirke (nee Moore) at the weekend in her 87th. year, was received with great sadness by everybody. Mary was a true native Camp woman, she was born in Curracullenagh, Camp and only moved to the nearby townland of Garrahies to marry her beloved husband Maurice, who predeceased her by 22 years. She rarely left Camp and her life was one of devotion to her family, who were a source of great fulfillment to her. Mary was a happy, content woman and nobody could ever say a bad word about her. She loved her game of cards in Dalys Bar on a Sunday night and while she was able, her walks on Camp strand with her dog. In his homily at Mary's funeral Mass on Monday at St. Marys Church, Camp Fr. Brendan Walsh also told of her great faith and devotion to prayer. Huge crowds turned out to say their last farewell to Mary on Sunday evening at The Gleasure Funeral Home, Tralee and again on Monday at the requiem Mass celebrated by Fr. Brendan Walsh PP and assisted by Fr. Tony O Keefe. Afterwards Mary was laid in her final resting place at Ballinknockane Cemetary Camp. Ni Bheidh a leitheid aris ann. Mary is survived by her daughter, Joan, sons, Michael, Patrick, Sean, Maurice, Martin, Gerard, Thomas, her grandchildren, greatchildren and many relatives and friends. Sympathy is extended to all. AUGHACASLA N.S. PARENTS ASSOC: Winners of Annual Easter Raffle as follows: 1st. Prize - Monster Easter Hamper - Denny Herlihy. 2nd. Prize - Easter Egg - Chloe Barrett. 3rd. Prize - Easter Egg - Stephen Kelliher. 4th. Prize - Easter Egg - Lucy Fitzgerald. Card sellers prize went to Rachel McKenna, Roisin and Rory Corry and Mark Fitzgerald. FUN PUB QUIZ: Thursday, 13th. April at O'Neill's Railway Tavern, Camp, in aid of Diabetes Federation of Ireland. Everybody welcome. RUGBY: Nicholas O Toole whose mother Mary Rice hails from Cappaclough, Camp captained Wanstead RFC, who met Corca Dhuibhne and Tralee R.F.C. in 2 very exciting matches played in the County this weekend. The two home teams were victorious on this occasion, however beidh la eile ! EASTER CEREMONIES: St. Marys Church, Camp Holy Thursday - 8.00 p.m. Mass of The Lords Supper Good Friday - 3.00 p.m.Celebration of the Lords Passion. Holy Saturday - 9.00 p.m. Easter Vigil. Easter Sunday - 10.45 am. Mass A Happy and Holy Easter to all readers at home and overseas. Castlegregory REFUSE COLLECTION - The next collection date for the Community Bin will be on Thursday April 13th between 8.30am – 10.30am. ANNUAL MONSTER WHIST DRIVE - Our Annual Monster Whist Drive for Sr. Mary O’ Shea Mission will take place in Clubrooms on Thursday 20th April at 8.30pm sharp. Please support. A great night is assured for all. BINGO - Bingo each Tuesday night. Doors open at 7.30pm and starts at 8pm sharp. Proceeds towards the Church Renovation Fund. Visitors welcome. COUNTRY MARKET - The Country Market will in the Clubrooms every Sunday from 11am – 2pm. For booking a stall or table please contact Elayne at 086-3142537 VISITOR INFORMATION CENTRE: Those wishing to advertise with us for this year need to return registration forms as soon as possible. If you have not received a form, please contact us and we will be happy to forward one. Tel. 066 7139422 KERRY DIOCESAN PILGRIMAGE Kerry Diocesan Pilgrimage to Lourdes takes place from September 2nd to 7th 2006, led by Bishop Bill Murphy. Flights from Kerry Airport. Booking forms available at the Parish Office or Contact Jim Twomey, Torc Travel @ 064 32911 GAELTACHT PILGRIMAGE. The Gaeltacht Pilgrimage to Lourdes takes place from 18th to 23rd October 2006. Direct flight from Kerry Airport. For further details contact Galvin Travel @ 066 9151409. IRISH HEART FOUNDATION: There will be a sponsored 8KM Fun Run in Tralee on the 30th April @ 3pm. Departing from the Brandon Car Park. Proceeds to the Irish Heart Foundation. To register contact Jim on 086 3996094 NEWSLETTER: While the newsletter has been a great success, we are always looking for more articles, points of interest, adverts and any other material that you may wish to contribute. Contact the Information Centre at 066 7139422 or e-mail castleinfo@eircom.net EASTER CAMP - Easter Camp at Camp Child Care Centre 066 7130338. Week 1. Tuesday 11th April, Wednesday 12th April, Thursday 13th April. Week 2. Tuesday 18th April, Wednesday 19th April, Thursday 20th April. Times:- 10.30am – 2pm. Age Group:- school going – 12 years. ?50 per child. LOST - Lost in Church Car Park Castlegregory on Saturday 2nd April a black purse containing Rosary Beads. Finder please contact 087 7740740. Reward offered. SINCERE SYMPATHY - Sincere sympathy is extended to the Quirke Family on the death of their mother Mary who died recently. AUGHACASLA N.S. - Aughacasla NS Parents Association held their annual Easter raffle on Friday 7th April. The prize winners were: 1st prize – Monster Easter Hamper – Denny Herlihy 2nd Prize – Easter Egg – Chloe Barrett 3rd Prize – Easter Egg – Stephen Kelliher 4th Prize – Easter Egg – Lucy Fitzgerald Card sellers’ prizes went to Rachel McKenna, Roisin & Rory Curry and Mark Fitzgerald. Congratulations to all the winners and a very big thank you to all the children and parents who collected for the raffle. Well done to everybody. HISTORY OF CASTLEGREGORY; Anyone with material, photos etc. please submit before Easter to Eithne Griffin: 086 6066865. Sinn Fein Easter Commemorations - Sinn Fein will hold two ceremonies in North Kerry to commemorate the Easter Rising of 1916. In Listowel on Easter Saturday evening, a march will commence at O'Connell's Avenue at 6.30 and will proceed to the Republican Plot at St. Michael's Cemetery. On Easter Sunday, a march will commence at Denny St. at 3 pm and will proceed to Rath Cemetery. Special Guest Speaker: Barry McElduff, MLA from Tyrone. The AGM of Castlegregory Community Council - The AGM will take place on Monday February 6th at 8.30pm. We feel that the parish is not fully represented on the Council and we appeal to you the members of our community to become involved by joining the committee for 2006. It is essential that the committee be comprised of members representing all organisations and station areas in order to promote the future development of our area. We look forward to welcoming you on Monday February 6th at 8.30pm. The Country Market - The Country Market is cancelled until further notice. Pantomime - The Castlegregory Pantomime Group will be presenting ALADDIN beginning on the Thursday 26th January 2006 to Sunday 29th all shows will be at 8pm sharp except Sunday matine 
