sport gaa
{  
    October 14 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/lost-in-a-morass-of-clarity-26324752.html }
'Let's be clear about this," GAA president Nickey Brennan told Eamon Dunphy during an interview on RTE radio last week. According to Brennan the GAA had no issue with the Government giving €5m to the GPA or the Irish Sports Council for distribution to players. Its problem was in giving it under the guise of infrastructural grants to the GAA. It would fudge the issue too much, he said. Or maybe he said confuse. The sound of laughter was drowning out his last few words. "Let's be clear about this," GPA president Dessie Farrell told RTE's Brian Carty on Tuesday. The residual anger among his members that the issue of the proposed grants was still dragging on had reached epidemic proportions. Having tried to negotiate until they were blue in the face, they now felt themselves backed into a corner from where they were forced to contemplate the most drastic measure at their disposal: a nationwide strike. The rest of us are left feeling blessed to have so much clarity. You wonder how far we've moved since 2002 when then finance minister Charlie McCreevy introduced a tax break for professional Irish sportspeople and wondered, in that cunning way of his, if it mightn't be an unintended signal for all manner of organisations to come running with outstretched hands, looking for their cut. McCreevy knew this through hard experience. While reminding us of his own impeccable sporting credentials and telling us how Fianna Fáil had virtually invented sport in Ireland in 1997, McCreevy documented tirelessly how he had opened the nation's purse strings over the years for deserving causes -- wealthy pillars of Irish society naturally -- only to be inundated by others seeking alms such as, you know, charities and sporting organisations, all chancing their arms. This is what he told an Oireachtas committee on Finance and the Public service in February 2004. "When I introduced the relief in 2002, I knew those in the amateur sporting organisations would try to do something." Close your eyes and you can see McCreevy throwing his head up and issuing a sly grin as he uttered the words. His committee colleagues would know what he was getting at. Those GAA fellas would never miss a trick. During the same meeting, Kerry North TD Jimmy Deenihan suggested, a little naively it must be said, that the various parties might think "creatively" and come up with a solution that satisfied everyone. No chance. Deenihan, of all people, must have understood that creative thinking -- or an Irish solution to an Irish problem to give it its proper title -- has no place in the plain-speaking world of the GAA. So the impasse dragged on. So five years down the line here's where we are: in 2002 McCreevy flatly ruled out the incorporation of GAA players into his scheme, saying the payment of money to amateur players was a matter for the governing bodies themselves. In 2007, Nickey Brennan says it is up to the Government to find a mechanism to pay the players. It is like the longest baseline rally you have ever seen or a frame of snooker between Steve Davis and Graeme Dott. Endless to and fro, lots of spin and attempted snookers, but no frame ball. And the GPA? For all the noise it is making, the hand it is holding isn't flush with aces at the moment. There has been so much talk of strikes that it might as well incorporate a picture of Setanta and the hound as its logo and brand it with a boy-cried-wolf motif. We have been down this road so many times the threat has lost all power to shock now. November 2001: at the GPA's agm Farrell says they will hold off on strike talks until they have spoken to Seán McCague and players' representative Jarlath Burns. March 2004: "Never before have I witnessed this level of anger and frustration among inter-county players," says Farrell. October 2007: "We can't see any light at the end of the tunnel," an angry Farrell spits, "and there's nowhere else to go". Nowhere else to go isn't a great spot for the GPA right now, though. It surely realises that its stock among the great unwashed of the GAA public is low enough without eroding it further by players withdrawing from their county panels. Beyond emitting howls of anguish and stomping their feet in anger it is hard to know what the GPA can do but bottle their frustration and keep hold of the high moral ground, at least in their minds anyway. During the summer, Kerry footballer Paul Galvin said the GPA needed to find an issue and "nail it", and it is clear they are struggling on this one. It's hard not to have sympathy for them -- however unpopular such a sentiment might be -- because in most rational sporting environments it is impossible to imagine a moderate financial reward to elite amateur players presenting such a seemingly insurmountable barrier. There are two fundamental issues at play here. For all its talk about infrastructural grants, the GAA is passing the buck on the question of player grants simply because it can. As the second great political institution in the country -- after Fianna Fáil -- it would be remarkable if it wasn't so well-versed in the dark arts of fudge and obfuscation. It swats the GPA away as a kid would do a pesky fly. Then there is its deep-rooted distrust of the concept of the elite player, the notion that he might be getting paid and be seen to be getting paid. You could see clearly how much happier and energised Brennan felt last week when dealing with the issues of player burn-out and club fixtures. They cut to the perceived core of the Association, its volunteer and grassroots ethos. That is where the GAA is happiest, and it tries to draw that blanket tighter around itself to keep out the cold breeze being ushered in by the GPA. By refusing to engage meaningfully on the grants issue it drives a wedge between the grassroots and those who perform at the top end of the scale and the GAA won't mind that. It is possible these days to detect a growing sense of hostility towards elite GAA players and that is regrettable when you consider that, for all the great volunteer work that goes on, it is surely the elite players -- "not men but giants" -- who remain the GAA's greatest recruitment weapon. For our money the most difficult part of being an elite GAA player isn't the time demands or even the loss of earnings, but the increasing levels of personal abuse they are being subjected to, often for nothing more than being the best at what they do. The proliferation of GAA websites provides an online forum for people to offload a putrid jumble of bile and unsubstantiated rumour. For a minority, paying the admission fee to a match grants them licence to do the same thing close up. In the past few years some of the most honest and straight-talking interviews have been given by the likes of Davy Fitzgerald and Donal óg Cusack, and yet they have often been vilified for their views while the Government and the GAA continue to fudge their way along to general indifference. As John Lennon might sing if he was still among us: "Most peculiar mama." What must grate with the players most of all is the customary romantic portrayal of the GAA as the defender of the sanctity and purity of the games against the sinister threat of professionalism as represented by the GPA and, by implication, the elite player. The GAA keep telling us they have no problem with players making money off the back of their profile, but it is clear they are meant to feel cheap and grubby for having done so. The truth is there was never anything romantic or noble about the GAA's rigid defence of its ban on foreign games and, later, its long prevarication on Rule 21. It dragged its heels on the opening up of Croke Park too, and that is precisely what it is doing on the issue of player grants and, strike or no strike, it will continue to do until such a time (months or even years away) it can no longer simply wish the problem away. So let's be clear about that and we can move on. Or not as the case may be. 
