sport gaa
{ MARTIN BREHENY 
    July 03 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/bbreheny-beatb-gaa-dope-code-signals-end-to-age-of-innocence-26079139.html }
IT WILL be at least 9.30 by the time I leave Croke Park  next Sunday evening after finishing reports on the  Kilkenny-Wexford Guinness Leinster Hurling Final. A huge stadium can be quite an eerie place a few hours after a big event as a sleepy stillness replaces the thrusting bustle of match time. Croke Park will be empty by then, except for security personnel and a few assorted others attending to various tasks. It could be very different next month, however. Deep in the cavernous bowels of the new Cusack Stand we may find a lighted room. And sitting patiently inside, clutching a tiny bottle, one of the heroes of the earlier game. He is waiting to deliver a urine sample which, under the GAA's new anti-doping regulations, he is obliged to provide. Trouble is, after an energy-sapping game on a humid day, it can sometimes take hours to fill even a thimble. He passes the time by reading the GAA's new anti-doping code which, with utter clarity and delightful simplicity, informs him that he is in serious trouble if even the merest speck of methylenedioxyamphetamine, propylhexedrine, spironolactone or bendroflumenthiazide shows up in his system. Yes, and strychnine (I kid you not) is also banned. I would have thought that the first four unpronounceable substances were nasty relations of ingredients associated with (a) remedies for scour in suck calves, (b) anti-freeze, (c) paint stripper and (d) weed-killer. Shows how much I know. Then again, is your average GAA player any more informed on chemical concoctions? Sorry lads, ignorance of the new regulations will not be accepted as an excuse, even when they are written in a language very few natives know. Try this. "All imidazole preparations are acceptable for topical use." Good to know that. "For cathine, the definition of a positive is a concentration greater than five micrograms per millilitre." Really? Whatever happened to "take your points and the goals will come"? Bye, bye to the simple days and say hello to a dark new world which is about to be foisted on GAA players. There is every reason to believe that hurlers and footballers are as susceptible as any other sports people to the appeal of performance-enhancing drugs. It's logical to assume that with the pressure to succeed so intense, some GAA players will take a chance with dodgy substances, but let's keep a sense of perspective here. Every county panel isn't exactly mainlining behind the dressingroom at dusk or trawling the Internet hoping to find the latest update on drugs. Yet, the new anti-doping code creates the impression GAA players are smiling cheats. It implies that an 18-year-old starlet who is playing his first game as a senior is as likely to be fuelled by drugs as a Bulgarian weight-lifter. The whole thing is plain daft. The GAA know it, but there is nothing they can do only grin and pretend they think it's a great idea. This, you see, is a Government-backed idea, which is co-ordinated by the Irish Sports Council. They, in turn, have based their anti-doping code on International Olympic Committee regulations which, for obvious reasons, have to be incredibly restrictive. So, in effect, the GAA player who works for a living and plays for pleasure is being treated the same as top international professional athletes who are surrounded by battalions of medics, advisers, dieticians and various other gurus. GAA players have no idea of what lies ahead of them. If they thought that training and playing impinged on their lives, they will soon discover that the anti-doping code will place another serious demand on their attentions. The banned list of substances doesn't just include recognised performance enhancing drugs, but all sorts of other substances, including even some cough mixtures, which have absolutely no bearing on how a player performs. Team doctors are facing a whole new tough world as the focus switches to them to educate players on the dangers which lurk in taking what appears to be an utterly harmless mixture. "Players will have to very careful to tell the team doctors exactly what they are taking, however innocent it might appear. A huge education programme is required to make sure that no player ends up in the embarrassing position of testing positive after taking something he thought was totally harmless. "We're in a new world now and everything will have to be done by the book," said Dr Con Murphy, who has been tending to Cork teams for several years. Had the GAA opted out of the scheme, they would have been accused of having something to hide, leading to a withdrawal of State funding. Instead, they have had to sign up to a charter designed to trap the most sophisticated international cheats, which is nothing short of bizarre. It's all very fine for the highly-paid Sports Minister, Dr Jim McDaid and his professional helpers, working in tandem with the well-paid executives of the Irish Sports Council, to climb upon the highest moral peak in their battle against drugs in sport. But they have left common sense behind them when they decided that every inter-county GAA player should be treated as an object of deep suspicion. In case we've forgotten, GAA players are amateurs, yet they are having professional criteria applied to them to the point where their basic rights are almost certainly being infringed. Testing is an important part of the battle against drugs in sport, but when the State and the Irish Sports Council instruct amateur hurlers and footballers they can't take certain cough remedies, it really is time to cry stop. GAA players should not be subject to the same stringent drug-testing criteria as professional international sports people. On that basis, having dog licence would carry the same punishment as Mafia crimes. 
