sport gaa
{  
    October 06 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/irish-sport-is-more-than-just-gaa-25891721.html }
Sir - PJ O'Reilly's letter (Oct 4) demanding that Croke Park be kept for GAA sports only is the worst form of the parochial and closed-minded mentality that tars thousands of fair-minded GAA fans with his bilious brush. Look around the world and one sees stadiums similar to the wonderful Croke Park used for all sports and the image of these venues on television provide only positive exposure for those cities. It attracts people to visit, it might even give the GAA extra followers and/or potential clubs in previously untapped countries, but maybe Mr O'Reilly only wants GAA members to be of Irish extraction. Gaelic games do not have the exclusive rights to Irish national "character and discipline" that he refers to. Our wonderful Ryder Cup golfers, our Triple Crown-winning rugby team, our emerging soccer team, our brave jockeys, all embody these traits in spades. The letter's tone exudes the attitude that the GAA and its followers are more Irish than the rest of us foreign-sport lovers. His analogy that "opening up Croke Park or any other GAA ground to outside sports is akin to offering the GPO for use by the Royal Mail" is so contemptible as to defy belief. Opening Croke Park to 'foreign sports' cannot be to the detriment of our own national cultural sporting activities. Ireland is moving on, GAA training pitches and clubhouses are littered with members wearing soccer and rugby tops. 'Foreign sports' are watched on TV in GAA clubhouses and I hope the GAA hierarchy will eventually move the old diehard parochialists out and the Mr O'Reillys of this world with them. Phelim Warren. Firhouse, Dublin 24 * Sir - I am a 24-year old who has been brought up on GAA. It is something that I have played and watched from a very young age. My family and friends all have a great interest in football and hurling, and we all derive great pleasure from our national games. What I have just said applies to countless young people all across Ireland - men and women who have followed their club and county, and will do, come what may. There is one other common factor linking all these people who are the future of our evolving GAA and that is - contrary to what PJ O'Reilly writes - that the overwhelming majority of them want to see Croke Park opened up to rugby and soccer. We want to showcase the pride of the GAA to Europe and the world. We have a fantastic stadium, which is the envy of many other countries in the world - why should it sit idle for most of the year when it could be generating good income to help improve our national games? The GAA has nothing to fear from allowing other games to be held in Croke Park. Lansdowne Road is going to be out of action for a period of time, and there is talk of our national teams going to Wales to play international games. Going to Wales? Have we gone mad? Does common sense have no place in our thinking on this matter? We would all have to hang our heads with shame were the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff to play host to our nation's home fixtures. Aidan Challoner, Mountmellick, Co Laois 
