sport gaa
{  
    April 19 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/no-more-suspended-animation-on-dirty-play-26190793.html }
AS the GAA gets ready to face into another championship season in two weeks time it has a lot going for it vis-a-vis the other major sports in this country. Unlike most others, GAA sports have built-in guarantees of success every year. Some team has to win the provincial championships and some team has to win the All-Ireland. Add in 32 county finals that have to be won and you can see that there is whole lot of winning to be done in a GAA season. Live television in Summer gives huge impetus to the interest and all the while the GAA rakes in record amounts of money. But there is one black cloud in the otherwise clear-blue GAA sky. Dirty play is the one thing that can bring shame, embarrassment and public and media recrimination onto the heads of GAA officials around Ireland in 1998 as it has done for countless years. For decades some GAA officers shrugged off dirty play and blackguardism with a nod and a wink and largely got away with it. But one of the downsides of live television is that dirty play is highlighted where before it would have been missed Star players who built their reputations on unsporting play at various levels have been shown up as frauds in the eyes of the watching public. Some counties have plummeted in esteem thanks to the vigilance of the cameraman. The GAA is extremely worried about dirty play and with good reason. Liam Mulvihill summed up the GAA's attitude when he wrote in his annual report: ``Arguably, the greatest weakness in the past year was the lack of discipline at far too many games'. The Director General was being most diplomatic in his choice of words but the message is obvious. The GAA is worried. IT PAYS TO FOUL AND IT PAYS TO PLAY DIRTY at times in Gaelic football. The coaching manuals or videos do not state that but it's true. Skilful footballers are being prevented from playing to their full potential. More often than not the opponent gets away with his despicable performance. This is the real crux of the matter. The role of the Team Manager in dirty play has never been analysed or legislated for and an urgent change is needed in this area. Many managers do not actively seek to prevent their dirty players behaving as they do. How often have we seen a Manager put his arm around a player who has just been sent off to console him instead of pointing him towards the dressingroom? The Manager is thereby condoning what the player has done. There are, contrary to general belief, ample rules in the GAA's Official Guide for dealing with dirty play. But referees as a body are simply not enforcing these rules. Too many referees are afraid or unwilling to send off players. It can be argued that the suspension system in the GAA is partly to blame for the moral cowardice of SOME referees. Time-based suspensions such as two weeks, three months, etc. can sometimes be very severe in relation to the particular offence. All referees like to be 'popular', probably a contradiction in itself, so they shy away from harsh penalties. The first step therefore for the GAA to take is to make it EASIER for referees to send off players. This can be done by changing the suspension system to a match-based one. Depending on the gravity of an offence the player would be suspended for a set period of games. There is a strong argument too for having suspensions arising from intercounty games not applicable to club games as clubs are often unjustly punished in this way. Match suspensions would solve the problem of players being sent off in November and their suspensions being up before the new seasons starts - in effect no penalty at all. If referees could be got to send off players more often then the Manager would be brought into the disciplinary system. No Manager could afford to carry a player who was being constantly sent off. The GAA needs to introduce the card system as in soccer so that players and public know that action the referee is taking. To eliminate one of the biggest scandals in GAA discipline at present, different sentences for the same offence, there should be one body dealing with ALL intercounty games, provincial and All-Ireland championships and National League and this body should also appoint ALL referees. Bookings should be cumulative too so that a player would be suspended if booked, say, three times in one year. The question of off-the-ball fouling is possibly the most serious issue of all and I have yet to see any better suggestion for solving this than the notion of having two referees. Umpires in the GAA are there for purely decorative reasons and it is a vain hope that they will suddenly start telling referees about dirty incidents behind his back. Let's try the two referees for a few years. The Derry-Monaghan match showed the necessity it. The GAA needs to speed up its system of dealing with dirty incidents in matches too. Referees should be instructed to have their reports in within 24 hours and penalties should be imposed in a matter of days. The present delayed system merely feeds rumour-mongers and makes the ultimate decisions much harder to take. There is no reason why the GAA cannot largely eliminate dirty play from its games if the will is really there to do so. That of course is a very big `if' and there are strong grounds for believing that many in power in the GAA, from referees to high officials, do not want to grasp this nettle. However the GAA is now more conscious of its image these days since the arrival of corporate boxes, big sponsorships and live TV. And they know that nothing will nudge Gaelic games back into the dark ages as fast as dirty incidents in some of the major summer fixtures.  By this time next year we will see a very different system of discipline in the GAA, and not before time. 
