sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    September 10 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/bertie-in-blunderland-as-great-bowl-myth-explodes-26034161.html }
THE Government reneged on an election commitment, the FAI waved big cowboy hats but sold no cattle and the  IRFU zipped their hands into their pockets, making sure that the bulging wallets were secure. So who gets blamed if the bid to co-host the 2008 European soccer championships with Scotland fails? The GAA, of course. The Government have dodged behind the public finance crisis, the FAI have promised UEFA chiefs to show them a stadium they don't even own next Monday and the IRFU have . . . well, done nothing actually. Still, we shouldn't be surprised. The Government's National Stadium plan was illogical even before the ink was dry on the plans and, from the moment they asked the GAA to allow them to use Croke Park as a bargaining chip for the Euro 2008 bid, it was clear that short term expediency applied. The GAA's response was based on a simple pragmatism. If they declared that under current rules, Croke Park was unavailable for soccer, they would have been accused of scuppering a great national dream. So they went along with what was clearly a Government charade. It bought time for Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern while the Progressive Democrats twitched on their seats and wondered how many of them would be returned in the General Election. Meanwhile, the FAI made a mess of the Roy Keane affair, the IRFU did nothing (again) and the GAA's builders worked furiously to make sure it that 79,500 fans could be accommodated from mid-summer onwards. The GAA now have a modern stadium, a big but workable debt and a pressure that's so outrageously unfair as to be immoral. "Open the Croke Park gates on a one-off basis for the 2008 Euro championships," is the pathetic plea of a Government who apparently don't trade in reality. Up to yesterday, the Government were offering UEFA a national stadium for the 2008 Euro championships but today they are telling them that the only genuine show in town is a stadium over which they have no control. This really is a time for serious reflection by the GAA. I have argued strongly on these pages that they should open Croke Park to other sports and still believe that is the most viable long term option. But they cannot be forced to do so under the blackmail tactics of a Government which has gone back on a promise they made to the electorate last May. Even then, the Government's position would be so much more honourable if they simply conceded that the public finances couldn't extend to building a National Stadium, without making a plea to the GAA to keep the Euro 2008 bid alive. Of course, the Government believe that they have some sort of hold over the GAA because of the grants they allocated for the re-development of Croke Park. This, despite the fact that the GAA's nationwide infra-structure has saved the public purse enormous amounts of money over many years as they put in place a structure which made sport available to anybody who wanted to participate. The FAI, who stand to be the sole sporting beneficiaries from co-hosting Euro 2008, are under no pressure from Government. Nor are the IRFU, yet the GAA are being asked to change their rules because the Government got the National Stadium concept so fundamentally wrong. The only case the GAA has to answer is that they trusted the Government so implicitly. Those of us who contended that the Government's decision to announce a £60 million grant on the eve of the 2001 Congress was designed to persuade the GAA not to change the rules governing the use of Croke Park were accused of being cynical and mischievous. The 'Bertie Bowl' plan was still very much on the agenda at that stage so if the GAA decided to open up Croke Park, it would have provided live ammunition for those who were opposed to the National Stadium on the basis that it was the ultimate in extravagance. GAA Congress bought into the Government proposal and rejected a move for change, albeit by just one vote, thereby missing a great opportunity to prove that they really didnt care about pressure politics. That's all in the past and now the GAA have to contend with a new situation where they are the sole proprietors of the only stadium capable of accommodating major international events in style and comfort. It's a big challenge but an even bigger opportunity. The first requirement is to tell Government politely, but forcibly, that they won't be blackmailed into keeping the Euro 2008 bid alive. When UEFA officials arrive here next Monday they are hardly likely to be convinced by the fact that the only stadium which is up to required standard is owned by neither the Government nor the FAI. Frankly, that won't be of any concern to the GAA who are quite rightly perplexed by the breath-taking arrogance of the Government and the sheer naiveté of the FAI who want to play at being major soccer hosts without owning a decent stadium. Up to yesterday, the GAA had received no formal communication regarding the proposed UEFA visit to Croke Park. So what's going on? UEFA officials are due to arrive in Dublin next Sunday evening yet, according to the GAA, nobody has had the courtesy to inform them of Mondays proposed inspection. Very strange. The GAA can expect to come under enormous pressure to agree to treat the Euro 2008 championships as a one-off event so as to keep the bid alive. Not that it's likely to make any difference since UEFA will surely see through the nonsense which has now emerged. Croke Park will almost certainly be open to rugby and soccer on a limited basis once it's completed but the precise timing cannot be forced on the GAA and certainly not by a Government U-turn. Yesterday's Government decision puts the GAA under the immediate spotlight but, in the longer term, it hoists them into an advantageous position. Having had the foresight and the courage to re-develop a ?260 million stadium, they are the proud owners of the only facility in this country capable of catering for 80,000 spectators. Nothing, least of all a Government u-turn, can change that. Meanwhile, the FAI are back where they started while the IRFU must be wondering why they didn't join the stadium ruck a long time ago, rather than admiring their bank balance, one which is heading for a severe shock when they attempt to re-develop Lansdowne Road nine years after the GAA launched their Croke Park crusade. 
