sport gaa
{  
    December 22 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-gaa-tapestry-brings-colour-to-all-our-lives-25919544.html }
THERE I was, desperately thinking about how I would somehow compile a  column for today's newspaper, what row would I deal with, what mad manager would I  home in on or what GAA official with his mental faculties jammed in a time-warp would I analyse in depth for the benefit of readers. And then I got a flash of inspiration - after all it is the season for that sort of thing - even though I was cold sober at the time. Why, now since it is the end of the year and all that, not just highlight some of the great things that the GAA brings to Irish life year after year? Forget the rows, the controversies, the court cases, the fixtures mess, the Croke Park debts, the quality of inter-county football and even the abolition of Rule 42. Just think of the good times. So here goes . . . THE NEW CROKE PARK: One of the advantages of the extravagant type of democracy practised in the GAA is that every member of the organisation feels they have as much of a say and a right to everything as the top officials. Therefore, the completion of the magnificent new stadium struck a special chord with every GAA member around the country and abroad. What really brought that home to the masses was the use of the stadium for the Special Olympics and the spectacular television coverage of the opening ceremony. Every GAA person stood a bit taller after that momentous evening last June. ALL GAA IS LOCAL: To paraphrase the late Tip O'Neill re politics - nothing gives the GAA such authenticity in the Irish psyche as the club championships from under-14 level to senior. In every county in the land they capture the imagination of young and old, revitalise parishes that have been socially and economically dormant for years and galvanise the local people into a mad outburst of civic pride in their locality that nothing else under the sun can do. In every county every year we see amazing outbursts of joy, excitement and sense of belonging when a team comes from nowhere to win a county title for the first time or to regain a title after a lapse of a generation. This year we saw first time successes for Caltra in Galway, Blackhall Gaels in Meath and the Arles parish in Laois which sent out teams to win both the county senior and intermediate titles after a local row split the parish some years ago. The GAA never worries about a row or two, which is just as well maybe, but usually gets stronger when the combatants have returned their swords to their scabbards. This sort of thing rarely happens in other Irish sports - in the GAA it happens every year on several occasions GAA IS FOR CHILDREN: The massive investment in coaching over the past 20 years has ensured a vibrant youth structure in the GAA and in every corner of Ireland the happiest GAA faces are to be seen in U-14, U-16 and U-18 teams at parish level as thousands and thousands of young boys and girls give their all for the honour of the local parish. The sheer joy of just participating on a summer evening is all these youngsters want, but if success is added in then so much the better. Nobody has ever tabulated the real extent of this underage activity in the course of a summer's week. That's a great pity because it could be as many as a quarter of a million teenagers every week. What would Ireland be like if that facility for releasing physical and mental tension was not so readily provided for these young people? The GAA doing the government's, and often parent's, work and getting very little thanks for it. THE GREAT THEATRICAL EVENTS: The All-Ireland finals, provincial finals and county finals bring spectacle, drama, excitement and entertainment on the grand scale to the masses of Irish people every year. They are now taken for granted of course which is a pity because massive effort goes into each 'final production'. Players make colossal sacrifices, managers work themselves to the verge of breakdowns, officials do all the background work and the referees conduct the orchestras. The whole thing coalesces into a series of magnificent theatrical events from county final day in every county to All-Ireland final days in Croke Park. Without these spectacles, the lives of millions of Irish people would be so much poorer emotionally and even spiritually and the actual quality of the finals is never really that important. It is the event that counts. We should never take these things for granted when we see how great occasions in some other sports have been besmirched by thuggery, drug-taking or financial avarice and we should pray that the great GAA events will not go the same way. OUR LOCAL HEROES: Possibly the greatest thing the GAA has going for it is that the biggest stars in the game who constantly illuminate our playing fields with their skills and motivate the next generation to attempt to emulate them are all from some local area. They are part of the plain people of Ireland. They are not just pictures on the television or in the papers like the great soccer stars. The GAA hero returns to his native place after every game and the national superstar becomes just a local lad again. He can be met in the local village or town the next day. He might be sitting in front of you at the local Mass on the morning of the big match. He may be a teacher in the local school, a garda in the local station or delivering your post every morning. This local involvement by our top stars differentiates Gaelic games from most of the other major sports. They are living proof that GAA games are of the people and not divided like UK soccer between pampered, spoiled superstars on the one hand who live in a different stratosphere and the plain people who pay good money every week to watch. THE CRAIC AND THE CHAT: There are hundreds of thousands of Irish people whose lives would be totally barren without the opportunity to engage in the chat and the craic associated with matches. Getting there, meeting people, giving out to the ref, seeing famous people from the GAA, spotting former great stars in the crowd, and going for a few jars in a GAA pub afterwards. Take all that out of many people's lives and they would have no wish to keep going on this earth. After the recent famine, they will welcome the O'Byrne, FBD and McKenna Cup games in January like manna from heaven. That's (in part) the GAA for you. All things to all men and women. But where would Ireland be without it? Happy Christmas! E-mail: 
eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
