sport gaa
{ Cliona Foley 
    August 04 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/sligo-where-codes-collide-with-dignity-26308972.html }
ONLY in Sligo, you imagine, could it happen. Ray Gallagher, former Sligo Rovers Chairman, current Chairman of their Development Board and a member of several prominent FAI committees, was unable to make it to Turners Cross last night for their Eircom League clash with Cork City. But when teams from Cork and Sligo go nose-to-nose again today in the country's biggest sporting arena, he would not miss it for the world. "Sure of course we'll be there, I was there the last time the county got to Croke Park and I was there in 1975 too," he admitted. It is particularly apposite that both sports meet in a Sligo/Cork double this weekend because, while Gaelic games and soccer fight a hardline battle for the hearts and minds of the country's most talented teens, it is in Sligo that they have often come closest to happy co-existence. At centre-back in Croke Park today will be Michael McNamara. Last year he led Sligo Rovers to an FAI Cup semi-final and a year earlier also captained them to their Eircom Division 1 title, before concentrating on GAA this season. Philip Gallagher, who lined out at full-forward for Sligo in the Connacht semi-final "had a good run at full-back for us last year before he got injured", Gallagher explained. Former and current Sligo seniors, Sean Flannery and Johnny Davey, are two more who have played for Rovers, while one of the soccer side's stars, Conor O'Grady, is another who could have gone either way. A member of St Mary's - one of Sligo town's two GAA clubs which is situated a half-mile from the Showgrounds - he has played minor and U21 GAA for the county and Sligo manager Tommy Breheny is his next-door neighbour. O'Grady will also be in Croker today, as will his Rovers' team-mate Gary Curran, an Irish U21 soccer star, whose brother Brian lines out at half-forward against Cork. The GAA/soccer cross-over goes right back to the early '70s when the GAA's hateful 'ban' was lifted. Ironically, Sligo was one of only two county boards to oppose that move in '71 and yet was one of its earliest beneficiaries as top local soccer players David Pugh and Gerry Mitchell switched over to help Sligo reach the Connacht final that summer where they were only pipped by Galway in a replay. 'We're in Sligo town, but we've always had a lot of farmers and rural supporters - naturally, they also followed GAA' Ray Gallagher (Sligo Rovers) When Sligo Rovers won their famous treble - FAI Cup, Division 1 and Shield - in 1994, their reserve 'keeper was Tony Blake, better known as Donegal's county GAA goalkeeper. On the sideline today is selector John Kent, equally steeped in both codes. He played a season with Glasgow Celtic before returning to play with Rovers. "We would be unusual in that a lot of our support, traditionally, is rural," Gallagher said. "We're in Sligo town, but we've always had a lot of farmers and rural supporters - naturally, they also followed GAA. "The calendar always suited because soccer was the winter sport around here and Gaelic was in summer and that's one big advantage our players had over the years," he explained. "If they joined the county (GAA) team in April they were already very fit which was a big asset." It is one of the reasons that the advent of summer soccer, he admitted, has not been ideal for Rovers, who now find their Eircom League games directly competing for their audience, on Friday or Saturday evenings, with local GAA championship matches. Yet the opposing sports still maintain excellent relations. Less than 10 years ago, when a new government initiative offered sports capital (building) grants, Gallagher and the then GAA County Board Chairman John Leyden actually got together and jointly canvassed the county's politicians to get money for sport in Sligo. This summer, when Tommy Breheny's side were heading to play New York on an artificial pitch in their Connacht SFC opener, Sligo Rovers happily allowed the GAA team train on their synthetic surface at the Showgrounds. "We have always taken the attitude that any success for the county, in any sport, is good for the rest of us," Gallagher said. "Sean Kelly (former GAA President) was guest speaker at the FAI AGM this year and he pointed out that sport, no matter what, is great for communities. It builds children's characters and keeps them out of trouble and I'd agree with that. Any sporting success in Sligo does good for the whole community. "Make no mistake, ourselves and the GAA would still be big rivals," he admitted. "It's a small county, only 56,000 people, so we're competing all the time for players, supporters and funding. There's a lot of people in both sports doing an awful lot of great work with relatively little reward in terms of national titles or All-Irelands. "So when we won the FAI Cup it was a huge boost to everyone in Sligo and you could see the exact same thing in '75 and after the recent Connacht final," Gallagher said. "There's black-and-white county flags in the Showgrounds these days and personally, I think it's great to see them. Long may they be flying!" 
