sport gaa
{ Gaelic Games 
    December 03 2007 04:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/is-the-gaa-slling-its-soul-26336169.html }
It's the €3bn sale of the century that shows no signs of slowing. While the GAA spent last week immersed in an idealistic tussle over whether just €3.5m represented pay-for-play or not, the prospect of wide-ranging property sell-offs could have just as significant an impact on the association as the incipient creep of semi-professionalism into our games. Club and county officials continue to be tempted by lucrative offers of swap deals, whereby property developers construct state-of-the-art facilities outside towns in exchange for property which can be worth millions. A variety of clubs have upped sticks in recent times, most notably Portlaoise and Cork giants Nemo Rangers, whose remarkable facility perhaps demonstrates the attractions of such a proposal. County boards didn't take long to become attracted to the phenomenon. To some extent or other, Clare, Galway, Kerry, Kildare, Louth, Waterford, Wexford and Westmeath have either sanctioned, proposed or discussed a move away from traditional town centres. Only last week, this newspaper reported interest in Dublin's Parnell Park. Some claim that this represents another ripped thread in the destruction of 21st-century Irish society's thinly woven fabric, with the priceless community aspect of the GAA, husbanded through generations, sold off to the highest bidder as clubs and counties race to relocate at clusters of greenfield sites throughout the land. But others argue that urban sprawl necessitates such developments; in many cases grounds have either no room to develop or else cannot possibly cater for the growing numbers of juvenile members in terms of pitches or dressing-rooms. Benefit Kerry County Board chairman Sean Walsh demonstrates how his county will benefit from a deal which will move Austin Stack Park in Tralee. "We're moving approximately one kilometre so we are staying within the town environs," he explains of a plan which received overwhelming support. "We'll have a brand new stadium, with 6,000 seats and a 15,000 capacity and retain our name. And in addition to the main pitch, we'll have a separate floodlit training facility, four all-weather pitches and 1,300 parking spaces. At the moment, we have six. This move would only ever have been undertaken if it were for the betterment of Kerry football." Such an example may have been on GAA president Nickey Brennan's mind when he openly spoke about the national sell-off of GAA property at Congress in Kilkenny; the GAA must have the last word on any deal. "I support the notion that some counties should sell their existing grounds and move to a location on the outskirts of the town," he told delegates. "However, once again the economics relating to the capacity of any redevelopment must be seriously thought through." In Clare, the sale of a Cusack Park, which has seen better days, has lately been stymied by the refusal of Ennis Town Council to alter the site's planning status; developers touting €100m are hovering. Mayor Frankie Neylon is a vociferous critic of the plan. He claims the people of Ennis own the ground and that there are more against a potential €100m sale than for it. "There was £500 collected from certain people back in 1934 when this ground was being built," says Neylon. "The people own the ground. I think they should pump the money into Cusack Park as it is. "For many people, coming into county finals represents the only one or two times they come into town every year. The GAA is a strong community link to the town for such people. The GAA didn't have to move Croke Park to Wicklow or Meath, did they?" It's an argument that has some validity although moral conviction rarely holds back economic tides in 21st-century Ireland; although the social consequences remain significant. According to Gar Holohan of the Holohan Leisure Group, relocating clubs or county grounds away from communities creates a potentially unimpeachable barrier to sports participation. Holohan, whose company was recently appointed to develop the Government's National Sports Facility Strategy, addressed the topic at a 'Vision for Sport in Ireland 2012' seminar in Naas last year. "This practice is having a detrimental effect on sport, and there is a need to re-evaluate the importance of having sports clubs and facilities in local communities," said Holohan. "Where clubs and sports facilities are located is hugely important when it comes to promoting participation in sport. Children who have to walk miles to a facility or who have to rely on parents to transport them there may opt out of sport." It's a classic Catch 22. Jack Wall, Labour TD and former spokesman on sporting issues, was on the committee investigating Kildare's move from St Conleth's Park, whose dilapidated grounds are shoe-horned into one of the country's fastest-growing towns; Newbridge's population has quadrupled this century.  'Where clubs and  facilities are  located is vital  when it comes  to promoting  participation in  sport' "It's just the best move for Kildare GAA as a whole," he explains of a move to a site several miles outside town on the main road to Naas. "It's something that was an inevitable by-product of the explosion of the town's population and the ground has just unable to keep up. "At least now, we can entice more people to our games. The development would have happened anyway but I suppose people will just see it as a financial thing. But that's just a by-product. A happy by-product nonetheless." Not everyone can have the best of both worlds; the battle for hearts and minds in Cusack Park, Ennis particularly will be instructive. Waterford refused to countenance selling Fraher Field because of its historic association with the All-Ireland final. Others have been quicker to loosen emotional attachments. Housing Some clubs, such as Donaghmore-Ashbourne in Co Meath, have plans to develop their own sites to raise money for new facilities, having received permission to build a clutch of two-storey homes on their playing pitches. In Clonakilty, a €9m sale of club property facilitated badly needed housing development in the town, not merely the bank balance of property developers. Even if money isn't the primary motivation, like the slow-burning inevitability of semi-professionalism, the GAA will continue to cash in on prime property sites. In doing so, it can still maintain its remarkable hegemony, although conscientious objectors may still feel that the GAA's ties with the community may be critically sundered. As Fine Gael councillor Dr Tom Higgins commented when Waterford club Abbeyside decided to sell their grounds: "I'm surprised at the GAA for selling their souls like this." As modernity incessantly envelops the GAA, the harsh reality decrees that if the price is right, anything is possible. 
