sport gaa
{ Karl MacGinty 
    May 02 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/bcampus-irelandb-isc-chairman-slams-the-begrudgers-26085620.html }
IRISH Sports Council Chairman Pat O'Neill departed from  the script at yesterday's launch of the Local Sports  Partnership initiative to offer a passionate personal rebuke  to "the begrudgers" who are trying to undermine the Sports  Campus Ireland project. Describing Campus Ireland as "a major national sports resource" which "enjoys the unanimous support of the Irish Sports Council," O'Neill said that recent criticism of the project was "typical of a growing trend towards begrudgery in Ireland." According to O'Neill, other famous examples of this phenomenon in Ireland's recent past included "the lambasting" Albert Reynolds got early on in the peace process; "the mauling" that Gerry Adams and John Hume received in certain media organs at that time and "the berating" of President Mary Robinson for shaking the hand of Adams at the White House. "The latest target for the begrudgers brigade is Sports Campus Ireland," he added. "But what's new in that. The project is being widely described as a national stadium but, in reality, it is far more than that. "It is not just for the IRFU, the FAI or the GAA. It is for every one of the 60 or more national governing bodies of sport in this country. A facility which will be of benefit not just to the elite but to everyone who participates in sport. "It will boast facilities for training, coaching and sports medicine. There'll be a golf academy; a tennis centre and a velodrome for Ireland's cyclists. Campus Ireland represents a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for this country. It's unique and enjoys the unanimous support of the Sports Council." The first eight in a national network of Local Sports Partnerships were announced yesterday and each will receive direct financial support of £90,000 this year from the £860,000 the ISC has earmarked for the project. They are Clare, Donegal, Fingal, Kildare, Laois, Roscommon, Sligo and Tipperary North. Describing the Local Partnerships as "the single most important development we have undertaken," Sports Council Chief Executive John Treacy announced that four more areas, Cork, Limerick, Meath and Waterford, were "champing at the bit" to come on stream in the immediate future, while 16 were expected to emerge in 2002. When the entire scheme is in place by the end of 2003, Treacy expects that 40 Local Sports Partnerships nationwide, each an independent company limited by guarantee, will share an estimated national annual budget of £4m or £100,000 each. In return, the Partnerships will be expected to create and co-ordinate local sports strategy, ensuring the optimum development and use of facilities in their area and the provision of support for the army of volunteers, clubs and organisations in their area. To help co-ordinate this work, the Local Partnership will be required to appoint at least one professional Sports Officer. Treacy revealed that £150m per annum is spent on sport by a wide range of bodies, including VEC Committees, Health Boards, FAS, and various commercial and sporting organisations. He stressed the need for co-ordination to ensure a maximum return from these resources, making participatory sport more accessible. Minister for Tourism and Sport Dr Jim McDaid heartily endorsed the new scheme and, after underlining the benefits of sport and fitness to public health, he added that the Local Partnerships would help eliminate unnecessary "overlaps" in the provision of facilities locally. While stating that neither the ethos nor the identity of any organisation was threatened by this strategy, the GAA's controversial Rule 42, limiting access to their facilities to approved sports only, seems to place it directly at odds with the Sports Council's clearly stated strategy of prioritising funding to multi-sports facilities. Dr McDaid insisted there was "no question" of GAA developments at a local level being denied funding on this basis, while he denied that the Taoiseach's recent announcement of a £60m grant to the redevelopment of Croke Park flew directly in the face of Sports Council strategy and his own department's funding policy. "My own views on the multiple use of sports facilities are well known," said Dr McDaid, adding: "If somebody had told me five years ago that we'd go within one vote or perhaps one year of the facilities in Croke Park being opened to other sports, I'd have laughed in their face. "You learn in politics that you coax people along. You don't tell them what to do. If we had said to the GAA, you are going to get this money only if you do that, the vote at Congress would have been lost by 101 and not just one." At local and national level, Dr McDaid stressed the importance of fostering partnership, while Treacy pointed out that, on the ground, "there's a great deal of cooperation between GAA clubs and other sports bodies all around the country. 
