sport gaa
{ Declan Bogue 
    March 06 2019 11:41 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/declan-bogue-the-gaa-would-rather-skin-themselves-alive-than-take-a-position-on-a-border-poll-37884867.html }
Is there anything to be said for another referendum? The GAA may need one soon. If Jarlath Burns and Joe Brolly are to be granted their wish, the organisation would wholeheartedly back the cause of a United Ireland in the event of any border poll. It's interesting that this is happening now. Under the present hierarchy, Burns has dramatically scaled back his GAA involvement. While he may speak at Congress on behalf of Armagh, he is miles away from inhabiting the present inner sanctum and carries no influence at the top level, so this is far from a kite being flown. As the previous chairman of the Standing Committee on Playing Rules, the current group that succeeded him in the post did not seek him out for advice before coming up with their list of experimental rules, some of which have been retained for this National Football League. To be fair to Burns he makes this point repeatedly, stating: "I would like to think that the GAA would take that position. I'm speaking just as an ordinary GAA member here, I don't have any executive role in the GAA, but I would like to think the GAA would honour that responsibility we have. It's part of our ethos." Ethos is a tricky thing. Within the Official Guide, Chapter One has the heading 'Aims and Ethos' and point 1.2 reads: 'The Association is a National Organisation which has as its basic aim the strengthening of the National Identity in a 32 County Ireland through the preservation and promotion of Gaelic Games and pastimes.' Now, 99% of those involved in the GAA would be largely unaware of such a mission statement. From the time of its founding in November 1884 to the present day, the GAA has been fought over by various interests. The first war was fought between nationalists and the clergy, both sensing a grassroots movement with the power to influence people was better to be under their control, just in case. It came to a head at Convention in Thurles in November 1887. In his superb book The Hurlers, author and historian Paul Rouse recounts the founder of the GAA, Michael Cusack, being disturbed by various members of the Irish Republican Brotherhood on his way into Hayes' Hotel, whereupon JB O'Reilly drew a pistol and shot it into the air. The IRB had infiltrated clubs to become their delegates to Congress in order to rig the vote and, indeed, some clubs were even formed for this express purpose and fulfilled no sporting function to speak of. The coup was successful and led to angry confrontations with Fr John Scanlon. He led an angry resistance with some other priests, the pantomime scene ending with them being shoved around the room after standing up on benches. Fr Scanlon attempted to make a speech and the table he was standing on collapsed. "We'll pulverise the priests," was one shout that went up. It sounds like one of the great quotable lines from Father Ted, but it all ended with the IRB getting their men elected into every position. As the years rolled on, priests and nationalists continued their battle, but somewhere along the way the ball squirted out of the ruck and school teachers managed to combine with financiers in a glorious move to assume control. All that gives a certain context to say that for practically every member, point 1.2 of the GAA Official Guide means nothing to them in a practical sense. They see it as a sporting and cultural organisation, far removed from politics. There's never going to be definitive numbers but since the Good Friday Agreement there is substantial anecdotal evidence of people from a traditionally unionist background getting involved in playing Gaelic games. It was perhaps with this in mind that former GAA president Aogan O'Fearghail said while on the 2016 All-Stars tour to Dubai on the possibility of removing the Irish anthem and flags at GAA venues abroad: "It would be time to look at it in our own island too, in terms of an agreed Ireland which everyone in the GAA and everyone in Ireland looks at. "You certainly can't look at these issues in advance agreement, that's for sure. The flag and anthem means a lot to the GAA and will continue to do so. But who knows in the future?" Given those kind of alternative views, and pardoning the wide-open pun, you can see how broad a church the GAA really is. And while O'Fearghail was an entertaining speaker and fearless in many ways, his leadership has been replaced by a much more reluctant cohort - a group that was terrified of the bad press it received over not dealing with the Liam Miller testimonial, which allowed silly threats to be made to Kildare for wanting to play a home Championship game at their home, and so on. Take a position on a border poll? They would rather skin themselves alive. And really, strip it all back and ask yourself, what exactly is 'the GAA?' Really, we can talk about what it means to us on a personal level. There are thousands of different versions of what you perceive it to be. Some believe it is sport. Some would tell you parking cars at wakes is 'the GAA'. There are roughly 2,200 clubs across all 32 counties on the island of Ireland and now more than 400 across the world of many religions, beliefs, prejudices and sexual orientations. There are millions of members, all unique. How can any one man speak for all of that? Belfast Telegraph 
