sport gaa
{  
    March 01 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/or-simply-a-bridge-too-far-26053549.html }
Only tradition keeps stadium doors closed WHAT strange GAA times we live in! It is not many years ago that no self-respecting GAA official would ever allow the word soccer to cross his lips. Instead, we had euphemisms like 'foreign games', 'other codes' and 'professional sports' being used to describe what cliche-prone journalists would refer to as the no-handling code. But on Wednesday, three of the most important officials in the GAA, Sean McCague, Liam Mulvihill and Danny Lynch, found themselves at a late-night meeting in government buildings which was attempting to facilitate the governing body of soccer in applying to stage the European Championships soccer tournament in 2008 along with Scotland. Those strange noises I heard all day yesterday must have been the hundreds of former GAA stalwarts rotating in their graves at the very notion of the GAA propping up a the Football Association of Ireland (FAI) in their application. This, after all, is the very same body which once suspended from the GAA the then-President of Ireland Dr Douglas Hyde because he attended a soccer match in Dalymount Park as part of his official duties. From my knowledge of the GAA and its workings throughout the country, I believe there will be two distinct schools of thought among rank and file members at the amazing situation now unfolding. The vast majority of GAA people will be delighted that the FAI application for the European competition may turn out to be the catalyst which will open the doors of Croke Park to soccer. There will be another section of GAA people, however, who will be gravely concerned that the GAA has, apparently, allowed itself to become unduly influenced by the Irish Government, specifically because of the promise of a £60m payment made by Bertie Ahern on the eve of last year's special congress. These are the people who always claimed that there is no such thing as a free lunch, let alone a free banquet costing £60m. The only reason GAA officers found themselves in government buildings this week was because they have the only decent, modern sports stadium in the whole of Ireland capable of holding a crowd of more than 50,000 in safety and comfort. That fact places the GAA apart, on merit, from the FAI, the IRFU or any other sports organisation in the land. How ironic that the still strictly amateur sports organisation that is the GAA should have provided this marvellous facility while the professional sports of soccer and rugby have so far been unable to do so. It is important to remember that the new Croke Park was provided almost completely from the GAA's own resources. It is true that the Government earlier gave £20m, in addition to the recent £60m to the project, but the reality is that the GAA would have completed Croke Park to the same high standards from its own resources if it had never got a penny from the Government. It would have taken another five to ten years, but the job would have been completed. The reason why so many GAA members and followers will be happy with the latest development is because these people want to see soccer and/or rugby played in Croke Park when it is feasible to do so. They are multi-sports people who have a strong interest in all the football codes and can see no reason why soccer or rugby could not be played at Croke Park. Soccer at Lansdowne Road or soccer in Croke Park is all the same as far as this section of GAA people are concerned. If Croke Park is listed as one of the grounds in which European soccer would be played in 2008 then it will certainly hasten the GAA's decision to change their rules to allow that to happen. Most leading officials in the GAA want that to happen, but they do not want to be seen as the instigators of such a decision. It was the same scenario with Rule 21 for many years. Call it moral cowardice if you like, but tradition still rules the roost over pragmatism in GAA politics. Former president Peter Quinn has been very vocal in his claim that other sports should be played in Croke Park since he retired as president. But he never said that while he was actually in office. It would be informative, for instance, if the candidates for the GAA presidency Albert Fallon, Sean Kelly, PJ McGrath, Noel Walsh and Seamus Aldridge at the last count, would now say whether or not they want other sports played in Croke Park. But I won't be holding my breath. This latest development will make it easier for GAA officials to get Congress approval for some loosening up of the present rule, which confines the use of Croke Park to GAA activity, and once the doors are opened at all the sky is the limit. What is being sought is not the abolition of the present restrictive rule, but simply the granting of permission regarding the use of Croke Park to be shifted to the Central Council. The opening of the Special Olympics in 2003, which will be a world-class occasion, is to take place in the new Croke Park when the stadium will be displayed on television all over the world. The case for staging big soccer matches in the stadium will be irrefutable by that stage. For the GAA, the bottom line is that Croke Park will be a financial millstone for the organisation unless it can be rented out to other sports. The chance to do the right thing for Ireland by letting the European soccer finals to be played there in 2008 is coming at just the right time for those GAA officers who want the present rule changed. But there is still a large GAA constituency that does not want soccer, in particular, played in Croke Park, because it is a 26-county sport. And there is another section of the GAA that will be genuinely perturbed at the impression now being given that the organisation is at the beck and call of the Government because of that £60m grant. These two groupings still have the capacity to cause some embarrassment for the progressives in the GAA with regard to playing soccer in Croke Park. eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
