sport gaa
{  
    January 13 2014 04:32 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/localnotes/bray-emmets-local-notes-29898519.html }
LOTTO - Jackpot at €6,000 - It could be a very happy New Year for someone of the Bray Emmets' family in January as the lotto jackpot climbs to €6,000 on January 10. The numbers drawn on January 3 were 4, 22, 12, and 26 and Monica Flood won the lucky dip prize of €25. The numbers drawn on December 27 were 13, 12, 15, and 11. Paul Cunningham, our club treasurer picked up the final €25 Lucky dip of the year. As the jackpot reaches €6,000 we would encourage all of you to participate in the Lotto and spread the word among your family and friends. If you are not in you can't win. Further details on signing up are available at www.brayemmets.com and please do call Anne Healy on 087 2556193 if you have any questions regarding signing up for the Lotto. BE FIT - Bray Emmets Fun In Training - BEFIT starts its second year in 2014. Registration will take place Saturday the January 11 at 11am in the clubhouse. If you have any queries you can contact Frances on 087 2499362 for further information. Mailing List - The club notes are also circulated every week by e-mail. To be included on this mailing list, please send your details to pro.brayemmets.wicklow@gaa.ie and we will be happy to include you in future correspondence. Academy - The Academy returns on February 1. For all other age groups mentors will be in contact with the parents regarding the resumption of training in due course. Mouthguards - The GAA recently announced details of the forthcoming national roll-out of the compulsory wearing of mouthguards for all adults for Gaelic football matches and practice sessions from January 1. In addition, from January 1, this rule will apply to all players at all age grades. The move to make the wearing of mouthguards obligatory reiterates the Association's long-term commitment to player welfare. Research figures indicate that Ireland has one of the highest rates of sport-related oral injuries in the EU, with one third of all adult dental injuries being sports-related. In many sports such as rugby and hockey, the wearing of gumshields is the norm with nearly all clubs adhering strictly to a 'no gumshield - no game' rule. Significantly, if a player refuses to comply he can be sent off and players will not be covered under the GAA Player Injury Scheme if they are not wearing a mouthguard. Information on the use of mouthguards for clubs, parents and players can be found at http://gaa.ie/medical-and-player-welfare/mouthguards/. The GAA are also pleased to announce that an agreement has been reached to distribute GAA/GPA mouthguards. The product range includes both boil and bite mouthguards and custom fitted mouthguards. The boil and bite mouthguards are now available to purchase. They come in four categories of protection: bronze, silver, gold and platinum. They are available for purchasing through the following local retailers: Supervalu, Centra, Lifestyle, Elvery's and O'Neills. Please note that the club shop in Páirc Emmet Bhré also stocks approved mouthguards. GAA Survey - As you may be aware the GAA are putting together their GAA strategy for 2014-2017. As part of the consultation process they have developed an online survey to enable them to help shape the strategy. It is available on gaa.ie until the end of January and can be accessed on www.gaa.ie/gaafuture. All those who complete this survey will be entered into a draw to win two tickets to an all Ireland final of their choice in 2014, so you can use this as an incentive. HOLLYWOOD Happy New Year and best wishes for 2014 to all our members and friends. Table Quiz - Thanks to all who supported our Annual Christmas Table Quiz in Tuttys on December 27. A special thanks to Pat O'Neill for hosting and to the organisers. A great night was had. Membership Renewal - The club are actively looking for new members and for our current members to renew. The club had excellent membership for 2013 and we thank each of them for their support. EIRE OG GREYSTONES Athbhliain faoi shéan is faoi mhaise daoibh go léir agus go háirithe don chlub agus dá ghnóthaí. A Prosperous New Year to you all and especially to Éire Óg and to its activites. Christmas-tide is another country (apologies to L.P Hartley); reality is suspended there and within its bounds the morrow and its needs can be conveniently set aside. Unfortunately, reality has the resilience of a weed and is insistent in its returning and ones muses, which have lain untroubled in the bliss of their Yuletide dormancy, are once again being rudely awakened by their duties to the Éire Óg notes. Membership, mentors and finance are the three basic factors on the agenda of any sporting club: for Éire Óg, finance is very much to the fore at this time of year. Insurance, team registration (€1000 per adult team) etc. fall due during the early months of the year and one watches with trepidation as the purse is squeezed of its contents. The weekly lotto plays a huge part in helping to keep our financial head above water so the Coiste is once again appealing to you to lend it your support. The lotto subscription is €2 a ticket: a direct debit option also exists. The lotto resumes this week after its Christmas recess and the first draw takes place on Monday, January 13. The main prize stands at €5,800. Thanks to your generosity towards our bag pack and Christmas draw, a significant part of team registration and insurance fees has been covered. Go raibh míle maith agaibh. Sympathies - The club extends its sincerest sympathies to Brendan Cuddihy and to his family on the death of his father Kieran. A large group of sympathisers from Éire Óg, led by Cathaoirleach Carmel Deeney, was among the overflow congregation at the Requiem Mass in St. Canice's Church in Kilkenny. Indeed, the Wicklow GAA community was well-represented and included Uachtarán Peter Keogh. Overall, the Cill Mhantáin presence was such that it prompted the remark, "You'd nearly think you were at a Wicklow funeral". The large numbers that attended these obsequies were reflective of the great work Kieran had done within the community in his lifetime. He had a great concern for social justice - he worked closely with Bishop Birch - and for the welfare of the less-advantaged. From the eulogy, spoken by his son, we learned, what seems up to then to have only been referred to in whispers, that Kieran was in fact a Dub and had played Gaelic - a reserved sin in Cill Chainnigh!- at Minor level for the county. We were told further that he had such a love for the grade that he continued to play Minor until he was 23. Ar dheis Dé go raibh anam uasail daonna Kieran. ST PATRICK'S The County Senior footballers, featuring three of our own guys in Padge, Dean and Paul, had a winning start in the O' Byrne Cup on Sunday last in Ashford - well done lads. Conditions were awful, so hopefully the storms will have passed for their game tonight Wednesday. The club lost one of our greatest supporters after Chrismas when Nell Healy passed away. A former camogie player she had the proud distinction of representing Wicklow in Croke Park in her playing days, and of course her sons Phil and Joe both played for club and county with Phil being the man responsible for picking up David Beggy in 1991 when we played Meath twice. Nell kept the flag flying for St. Patrick's every week as she sold the club lotto tickets in the bar, and the club were delighted to be able to provide a guard of honour for her over the two days. Our deepest sympathy to Jimmy, Freda, Joe and Philip and the rest of the family on their sad loss. The club would also like to pass on our condolences to Dr. Brendan Cuddihy and his family from the Eire Og club on the loss of Brendan's dad, Dr. Kieran, in Kilkenny, who also passed away recently. A meeting for all adult hurling players will take place in the clubhouse on Friday next 10th at 8pm, all current and new players are asked to attend, for details please contact Pat Stapleton on 086-8068170. We would like to wish all our players supporters and friends a great 2014, both on and off the playing fields. KILBRIDE Kilbride GAA would like to wish all reading this a happy and a prosperous New Year in 2014. We are anxiously waiting for the new season to commence and hope for large improvements on last year in all areas of the club. The Kilbride GAA lotto will resume Sunday 12th in Mooney's and tickets are on sale all week. We have new fun and exciting social events planned for young and old in the pipeline for the upcoming year so please get behind us and partake in what will be enjoyable local events. Our website is going to be updated on a weekly basis once the season commences which can be found at www.kilbridegaa.com. Please make it a bookmark on your computer. Our Facebook page will be very busy during 2014, we would ask any members to send us in any photos they have that are relevant to the club. Our page is 'Kilbride GAA Club, Wicklow' As always our club is always looking for new members (playing/non playing). Please contact the club PRO, Mic Ruttle, on 085 7063277 for more information or visit our website or Facebook page. ENNISKERRY Yearbook - As usual this is a fine production with a nice write up on our own club on pages 76 and 77. If you are interested in obtaining a copy contact Pat Driver at 086 2523898. AGM - This will take place on Friday, January 17 in our club house. All are welcome. Lotto - December 23 - winning numbers 5, 14, 23, and 30. Bonus 34. No jackpot winner, match three numbers receive €250 each. The jackpot on January 6 is €9,300. Thanks to all buyers and sellers of club lotto tickets for their continued support. Charity football match - This took place on St. Stephen's Day and was very well supported by players and supporters alike. The black and amber side with Christine Murphy, Rhys Cope, and Luke Dalton prominent, raced into an early lead but the bibs side with Eoin Corrigan and Aishling Driver lead the fight back along with the ageless Noel Driver and with Paul Wrynn scoring freely (1-6), ref Benny Doran kept to a great GAA tradition and blew it up all level 3-6 each. Well done and thanks to all who played and supported on the day. Thanks to ref Benny and to Damian and Doreen for organising raffle and refreshments afterwards. CARNEW EMMETS The Christmas lotto jackpot of €2,400 wasn't won. Numbers drawn were 4, 14, 21, and 26. Lucky dip winners: Niamh Kennedy c/o Ted, Joe Wilson c/o cosa mia, Mandy Kennedy c/o partners and Peter and Ellen c/o Ted. Next draw to be held in The Lodge on Monday the 6th. Draw tickets can be bought in most businesses in the town or from club members. Your support is greatly appreciated. The Big Fight Night is back on the cards this year as we again take on 'The Foord' in a winner takes all battle, and if last year is anything to go by then we're in for some threat. Prize fighter turned boxing promoter, Diarmuid 'Nighty Nighty Snoozy Snoozy' Doran is busy setting up his school of boxers. There's a lot of young faces this year such as Mick 'Rocky' Rock, the 'Maniac' Murphy brothers and the 'Ballingate Brawler'. There's also a few Katie Taylor's in the making thrown in from the boxing stronghold of Ratheengreany to spice things up. So start saving now folks, this night on February 8 is not to be missed. More info on Facebook at Carnew Emmetts GAA club. SHILLELAGH The committees of Shillelagh juvenile and Senior GAA clubs would like to wish the people of the community and surrounding areas the best of good fortune, health, and happiness in 2014. The ever popular juvenile nursery recommences on Friday next, January 10 in the Courthouse from 7 to 8pm, children from three to six years are catered for. The AGM of shillelagh GAA club was held on Wednesday, December 13, the following officers were elected, President Peter lanigan, vice Tommy Murphy, Frank Nolan, Jimmy Kearns, and Paddy Behan, Chairman: Mark Dempsey; vice chairman: Lar Behan; secretary: Richard lambert; assistant: Paula Murphy; treasurer: Noel Murphy; assistant: Tommy Murphy; PRO: Pat Murphy; committee: John Cullen, Bill Troy, Paul Behan, Owen Dempsey, Anthony Cullen, Darragh Gregan, and Kieran Byrne. Sunday, March 16 is the date Shillelagh GAA club brings Strictly Come Dancing to the Amber Springs Hotel Gorey. An interesting line up of contestants already in place and plenty of room for more. Rumour has it that the Oddsfather has already installed a Shillelagh native now residing in Tinahely as favourite to take the title, the question is who is going to be of the standard required to partner her. Watch this space, We are appealing to players ,members and supporters to row in behind this important fundraiser. Wicklow People 
