sport gaa
{ EXCLUSIVE by MARTIN BREHENY 
    November 14 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaa-in-secret-talks-to-open-croker-for-rugby-26104245.html }
THE possibility of using Croke Park for rugby and soccer internationals has taken a significant step forward, following  secret talks between the GAA and the Government. The Irish Independent has learned that senior Government officials and the GAA have met for wide-ranging discussions on all aspects of the Croke Park re-development, including making it available to other sports. This would be contingent on the Government giving further grant aid to the GAA. They have already paid a £20m grant towards the re-building of the new Cusack Stand. REALISATION While both sides still maintain they are operating to their own separate agendas, there is a growing realisation that opening up the ultra-modern, re-developed Croke Park makes commercial sense for the GAA while saving the Government a fortune. The official GAA line is that such a move cannot be contemplated unless they undertake a major policy review while the Government are still publicly committed to building a new National Stadium in Abbotstown, West Dublin. It's understood that tender notices for the massive project will be published inside the next few weeks. The IRFU have already indicated their public support for the Government project while the FAI are still committed to building their own stadium, although problems and controversies continue to mount around the Eircom Park plan. The cost of building the new national stadium, under the Campus Stadium Ireland Development Ltd banner, was originally put at £280m by the Government but there have been claims it could soar to as much as £1bn. The GAA are becoming increasingly concerned over the financial implications of maintaining the 80,000 seater re-developed Croke Park, purely for its own use. Apart from the capital costs involved in the re-building work, it will cost at least £2m per year to maintain. Croke Park is closed for over five months between early October and mid-March, during which the GAA will have to pay out over £800,000 on maintenance costs. The international rugby season spans Croke Park's closed period, which would make a link-up with the IRFU a natural option. While the GAA have the financial capacity to meet the building and maintenance costs in Croke Park, senior figures fear it would place such a huge drain on the association's resources that other key areas of their operations, notably games development, coaching and promotion would suffer. This, in turn, would place the GAA at a disadvantage, vis a vis their main sporting rivals. "There is a greater understanding in our organisation that we have moved into an era where commercialism is rampant. We have to keep pace with that so it's time to look at all aspects of our policies, including the use of Croke Park," said a senior GAA insider. There were no strings attached to the initial Government grant of £20m but that will not be the case if more State funding is forthcoming. And while the Government remain committed to the Stadium Ireland idea, they may consider scaling it down if the GAA lift the restriction on rugby and soccer being played in Croke Park. SOLUTION An 80,000 seater stadium is included in the Stadium Ireland plans, as well as an aquatic and leisure centre, a multi-purpose indoor arena, training and medical centres plus various other facilities. The aquatic and leisure centre has to be completed by the end of 2002 in good time for the Special Olympics which are being held in Ireland in 2003. A GAA source indicated that one possible solution would be for the Government to scale down the Stadium Ireland project and use Croke Park as the country's major outdoor venue. "That way, everybody wins. The GAA get financial backing for the remainder of the Croke Park project and, when completed, can charge rent to other major tenants. The Government are handed an 80,000 seater modern stadium in return for grant aid, which still works out very cheaply for them. "They can then go ahead with the Stadium Ireland project, minus the massive outdoor facility, which would greatly reduce costs," he said. The GAA would have to change its rules to allow Croke Park be used by other sports. That might prove controversial among the traditionalists who would never contemplate allowing rugby or, more especially, soccer into Croke Park. However, a GAA source said such a mindset could not continue to be entertained amid the harsh economic realities of the day. "The books have to balance and our members must realise that when they agreed to re-develop Croke Park, certain realities kicked in. The most important was that it's a massive financial undertaking which has to be approached in a very business-like manner." Laois will propose an easing of the restrictions on the use of GAA grounds at Congress next April. That debate will give a clear indication on the general GAA mood but it's becoming increasingly apparent that some top management figures - especially those who have to deal with the financial realities - favour doing a deal with other sports in return for rent. The fact the GAA and the Government are still in dialogue suggests that both sides still feel there is room for manoeuvre to avoid a situation where Dublin ends up with two 80,000 seater stadia. Further meetings will take place in the coming weeks. 
