sport gaa
{  
    June 01 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27363036.html }
SYMPATHY: Sympathy is extended to the family, relatives and friends of Catherine Reilly, Riverside Close, Abbeydorney who died recently.Sympathy is extended to Nora OCallaghan of Ballymacaquim on the death of her brother in law Jerry Brennock, who died recently in London. Burial took place in Clogheen, Co Tipperary.GAA: Fixtures - U12 co league v Ballyduff on Friday, J SYMPATHY: Sympathy is extended to the family, relatives and friends of Catherine Reilly, Riverside Close, Abbeydorney who died recently.  Sympathy is extended to Nora O’Callaghan of Ballymacaquim on the death of her brother in law Jerry Brennock, who died recently in London. Burial took place in Clogheen, Co Tipperary.  GAA: Fixtures - U12 co league v Ballyduff on Friday, June 3, 7pm at home.  U12 blitz in Ballyheigue at 10.30am v St Brendans; 11.15 v Kilmoyley; 12.30 v Ballyduff; 1pm v Ballyheigue. Final at 1.30pm. Kerry hurlers - Christy Ring championship - Kerry v Kildare, Saturday, June 4, away. Juniors - Training on Wednesday, June 1, at 8pm. Division 2 starting shortly. Football: U12 training on Wednesday, June 1, at 7.30pm and Saturday, June 4, 11am to 12.30pm. There is an U12 football marathon on Sunday, June 5. Check with officers. MCELLIGOTTS BAR: The weekly winner of the Poker Classic on Wednesday night was Gretta Doyle; Sunday nights winners was John Donovan. The weekly winners of the 41 card drive on Saturday night was a two way divide - Mary Ashe/ Patricia Reidy and Kathleen Twomey/ Eileen Flaherty. ABBEYDORNEY NS: Cumann na mBunscoil - Abbeydorney/ Killahan NS defeated Dromnacurra/ Rathconnell in Round 2 of Cumann na mBunscoil league on a score of 3-10 to 2-3. SOCIAL EVENING: For the actively retired will take place this Wednesday, June 1, from 2-4.30pm, at the Abbeydorney Community Hall. Everybody welcome. LADIES FOOTBALL: U12 - Training on Saturday from 11am to 1pm. Please note change of time. There will be an U12 challenge game on Tuesday, June 7. Details at training. U16 and minor training has been postponed until June 9, due to exams. Best of luck to all the girls who are sitting exams at this time. Re-union - The 25th Re-union of Abbeydorney Ladies Football Club will be held on July 16. WOMAN & CHILD HEALTH: Dr Ursula Scullion GP with a special interest in womens and child health will be starting a clinic every Friday, 9.30 to 12.30 and 2.00 to 5pm, starting this Friday, June 3, in the Abbeydorney Health Centre in conjunction with Dr Scully. Appointments preferred, but not necessary. Please phone 087 7510142. CLUBHOUSE: Sunday - Family. FARMERS: Hilary Egan is the new Rural Resource Worker with North Kerry Together. Her job is to work with low income smallholders, providing good, clear useful information on your rights and entitlements. If you are finding it hard to make ends meet, she can help you apply for Farm Assist. If you are already on Farm Assist, you can earn extra income working with the Rural Social Scheme. For more information contact Hilary on (068) 23429. This service is free and confidential. Abbeydorney Parish Hall & Community Centre Building Fund Members Lotto Draw: Results from May 29. Numbers drawn were 3- 4-17-25. No Jackpot Winner. Consolation Prizes ?25, Denis O’Connor, St Josephs, Droumcunnig, Abbeydorney; ?25 -Ellie Anne O’Sullivan, Abbeydorney. Spot Prizes: Eileen O’Flaherty, Abbeydorney; Dero Glavin, Abbeydorney. Names Drawn for July ?500 Mini Jackpot - Brian McKenna, Abbeydorney; Julie McElligott, Abbeydorney; Kathleen Twomey, Gortclohy, Kilflynn. Next Draw is on Sunday, June 5, in Mary O’Connors Bar - Jackpot ?3200. Thank you for your support SOCCER: St Bernard’s United AFC would like to thank everybody who supported our recent fundraising drive including a parachute jump by Sinead McElligott which was to take place last weekend but due to adverse weather conditions had to be postponed until June 26, next. We would also like to thank all those who came along last Saturday night to the draw for sponsors and promoters. Lots of prizes were given out on the night, our grateful appreciation to the sponsors of these prizes. Full Results and sponsors of the free draw can be accessed on the St. Bernard’s Website. We would like to thank Sonny Egan & Tom Costelloe for providing the music; to Fr Jack Fitzgerald, PP. and Jack Condon for drawing the winning tickets. We would also like to thank McElligott’s bar for the hospitality on the night. The main prize of a portable T/V was won by Donal O'Connell. Other Prizes winners; Michael Leen, Casement View, Ardfert. Tom O’Connor, 55 Rathoonane, Tralee. Michael Collins, Ballyard, Tralee. Bernie Behan, Ballymacaquim. Joanne Hayes, Abbeydorney. Breda Shanahan, Ballymacaquim. Brian McKenna, Killahan. Michael Walsh, Listowel. Conor Kearney, Milltown. Tom Long, Abbeydorney. Barney Quilter, Causeway. Seamus Griffin, The Spa. Margaret Donegan, Causeway. Mary Fealey, Ballymacaquim. Jack Condon, Abbeydorney. Norma Ryall, Abbeydorney. Jack Condon, Abbeydorney. Nora Sullivan, Abbeydorney. Mary Horgan, Lixnaw. Christine O’Mahony, Aulane. David Nolan, Abbeydorney. Norma Shanahan, Abbeydorney. Pat Hayes, Kilflynn. Michael Leen, Clounametig. John O’Sullivan, Abbeydorney. David Nolan, Abbeydorney. Norma Shanahan, Ballylahive. Bernadette O’Sullivan, Droumcunnig. Ned Hayes, Droumcunnig. Tina Sugrue, Ballymacaquim. Denis Long, Abbeydorney. Brian McKenna, Abbeydorney. In the coming weeks, the Club will be organising a free children’s disco in the Parish Hall/ Community Centre and also a 123 Weakest Link Table Quiz. FINE GAEL: The National Church Gate Collection takes place this weekend at all Masses. CHARITY CYCLE: Enda Kenny, Leader of Fine Gael will be travelling through Abbeyfeale on Friday morning with the Mayo Wheelers who are collecting for people affected by suicide. CORPUS CHRISTI: Abbeyfeale is so lucky to have the Holy Spirit Prayer Group meeting in the Convent Hall on the last Sunday of every month and the fact that last Sunday was the feast of Corpus Christi was an added bonus. The Procession after 12 noon Mass was very well attended and some parishioners travelled to Limerick to walk in the Limerick City on Sunday evening as well. FARMERS MARKET: The Market continues every Friday morning at St. Ita's hall. We have organically grown spinach, leeks, lettuce, spring onions, cabbage and cabbage for sale every week as well as sugar free cakes and breads suitable for those affected by diabetes as well as the usual home baking, jams, chutneys, herbs and summer bedding plants. TIDY TOWNS: The next meeting of Abbeyfeale Tidy Towns Committee will be held in St Ita‚s Hall on Monday 13 June at 7pm. All are welcome. A circular is being distributed to local householders this week seeking their help in improving and maintaining the general appearance and decore of the town as we approach the busy tourist period. KNOCK - The Legion of Mary pilgrimage to Knock takes place on Sunday 12th June. Further details are available from Sean Broderick. GOLF - The Annual Charity Fundraiser in association with Abbeyfeale Firemen, Gardai and Publicans involves an Open Golf Classic in aid of the Special Olympics. It takes at Abbeyfeale Golf Club on Tuesday 7th June with shotgun starts at ar 2pm and 4pm. The format is a 2-person scramble at 40 euro per team. Entries to Noel Hanlon (087-2996826) by Sunday 5th June, or contact Abbeyfeale Golf Club for further details. RUGBY - The AGM of Abbeyfeale Rugby Club took place at The Grove last Friday night, and the club wishes to thank everyone who attended. President, Stephen Daly, presided over the many topics of the club‚s performance during the past year, before handing over to incoming president, Denis Murphy. The club would like to take this opportunity to thank Stephen for his hard work and contribution to the club over the past two seasons, and are pleased to have Stephen‚s continued involvement with Abbeyfeale RFC. The club is delighted to announce the appointment of Denis Murphy as president for the coming season. Denis has a wealth of rugby experience both on and off the field and, no doubt, will bring vigour and excitement to the future growth of the club. Denis, former player and scorer of that infamous try in Thomond Park, will be joined by David Browne as vice-president. . Once the AGM was finished, players from the 1st XV and U/18 teams arrived for the end of season presentations. Celebrations were in order following confirmation that the senior team had not been relegated and will remain in the 2nd division next season, and also for the excellent performance of our U/18 side in the league. Michael O‚Donnell was awarded the U/18 Most Dedicated Player Of The Year award, and this was presented by Stephen Daly. U/18 Player Of The Year was Liam McEnery, and presenting the award was U/18 coach, Iain McMahon. Billy O‚Rourke, senior team coach, awarded Liam Herlihy with the 1st XV Most Dedicated Player Of The Year award. Billy also presented the 1st XV0 Player Of The Year award to Declan Woulfe. Our sincere congratulations to all four players for the outstanding contribution they have made this season. Stephen Daly presented the final award, The Shane King Trophy for Clubman of the Year, to Denis Murphy. Stephen thanked Denis for his time and efforts throughout the season, ranging from vice-president to refereeing duties, and many more tasks in between. GAA : Fr Casey‚s defeated Sean Finn‚s by 2-13 to 0-11 in the JAFL on Sunday. ATHLETICS: Athletes from St Ita‚s College, Abbeyfeale performed with distinction at the Munster Schools Sports 2005 this week. Alan O‚Connor took gold in the senior javelin, and silver in both the senior shot and senior discus. Brian Collins took silver in the intermediate shot. ICA: Abbeyfeale ICA elected the following at their AGM: President - Peggy Jones; Vice President - Peggy Browne; Treasurer - Peggy Quirke; Secretary - Rita Cichorn; Gri Teachta - Rhona Danaher; Contest secretary - Kathleen Leahy; Arts Promoter - Kathleen Quinn; Timire - Eileen Murphy; International officer - Mai Roche; Arts officer - Rita Horgan; Pro - Kate Curtin. The guild passed a vote of sympathy on the night to the families of the five girls killed in Navan School bus tragedy. GAA LOTTO - Numbers drawn on Mon 23th were: 2, 4, 22, 25. There was no winner. Lucky dip winners were: Francis & Emma c/o Falveys bar. Donal Hanafin, Caheracuttera. Michelle O Connell, Inch. Bernadine Devane, Health centre. James fitzgerald, Emalough. Next draw on Monday 30th at The Leprechaun Bar. Jackpot 3,350. SENIOR TEAM - Our senior team play Austin Stacks on Saturday evening next in Annascaul. This is a vital game to pick up points for the county league and ease our relegation troubles. JUNIOR TEAM - Our junior team continued on winning ways with an impressive 4-07 to 5 point victory over Ardfert. This win sets us up well for qualification to the semi-finals. We play Firies away next Friday evening and repeat performances from John Herlihy, Paul Moriarty, Shane Foley, Johnny Shea and Gerard Lenihan should help us to another victory. RETREAT CTR: Priests from the diocese of Limerick will conclude their retreat at the Retreat Centre this Thursday. There will be two retreats for the Kerry Diocesan Clergy during the month of June. There are a few residential and non-residential places available on our six day retreat beginning June 29. All bookings and inquiries tel (066) 7134276. GAA: Lotto - Last weeks numbers draw took place in Kate Brownes Pub. The numbers drawn were 3, 11, 12, 16. There was no winner. The consolation prize winners were ?75, Betty Griffin, Ballygarron, The Spa; ?30, Mary Lyne, Casements View, Ardfert; Keith O’Mahony, Station Rd, Ardfert; Eileen Canole, West Commons, Ardfert; Lorraine Carey, c/o Macs Bar. The independent observer was Julie Clifford, North Commons, Ardfert. Next weeks lotto draw takes place in the Abbey Tavern for a jackpot of ?1750. COMMUNITY CENTRE: Will be hosting Summer Camps for Primary School pupils aged 4-12 years in July and August. Vacancies are available and enquiries may be made to 7134066 or 087 9290673. Lots of outdoor and indoor activities planned, at a cost of ?45 per child, and ?80 for two children. All the rehearsals paid off for the cast and support team of the pantomime “Babes in the Wood” which took place on Saturday night in the Community Centre. The audience was treated to two hours of fun and laughter, so congratulations to all involved and especially to Sonia Elston the driving force behind the production. Congratulations also to Richard Raftery (age 11) Abbeylands, a prize winner in the recent “Talking to my Dad” picture drawing competition, sponsored by the Health Executive. A promotion calendar will be published which will include Richard’s picture and the prize giving will take place in the Gleneagle Hotel in June. Best of luck to all the students from the Parish who will be sitting junior and leaving certificate examinations. HURLING CLUB: Fixtures - County SHL Division 2 - St Brendans v Kenmare on Wednesday, June 1, at 8pm, in Ardfert. St Brendans Hurling Club wish to express their sympathy to the Kearney family, on their recent bereavement. ST BRENDANS AC: The County Primary School Sports were held last Saturday in Castleisland. Those who won medals were as follows: 1st class boys 60m - 2, Finan Mackessy; 3, Iarla Courtney; 3 class boys 60m - 2, Daniel Shanahan, 200m - 1, Eoghan Courtney; 2, Class boys relay - 2, Quinn Newsome McDonnell, Iarla Courtney, Finan Mackessy, Darragh McGarty and Jimmy Shanahan; 4th class boys - 3, Daniel Shanahan, Eoghan Courtney, Jack Regan Kirwan, Cian Hussey and Gearoid Sheehan. Well done to all the other children who competed on the day, the standard of competition was extremely high. On Sunday last the Munster Masters were held also in Castleisland, Patrick O’Riordan won silver in the high jump and finished just outside the medals in fourth place in the long jump and the 800m. Next Sunday, Tralee Harriers Open Sports. Next Bank Holiday Monday, June 6, our own Open Sports at 1.30pm, in the football field. Enquiries to Theresa 7134006. We would like to congratulate the Ardfert Tag Rugby team who won the county championship last Sunday. Training on Wednesday evening 7-8pm in the Station Rd field. GAA: Football - In the final game of Phase 1 of the U12 Coiste na nÓg we had a 2-16 to 4-7 win over Tarbert to remain unbeaten and so win a set of medals. Phase 23 begins this weekend. Our U14’s were defeated by Milltown in the semi-final of the county league who went on to win out the league. Our B team travelled to Annascaul but were defeated 4-8 to 0-5, this Friday night the home game is cancelled by a request from Ballymac. Round 6 of the county league is this weekend. We travel to Keel. TAG RUGBY: Congratulations to Ardfert U11 tag rugby team on winning the county Community Games final last Sunday. They defeated Oakpark, Currow, Duagh Lyre. In the final they defeated the favourites Castleisland in a heart stopping game. With one minute left on the clock the sides were level. Two brilliant tries brought Ardfert to victory in a scoreline of 11-9. The following are the team members: E Courtney, G Sheehan, T Nolan, N O’Connor, D McGarty, N Nolan, K Shanahan, C Hussey, K Hannafin, D Shanahan, L Murphy, A Fitzgerald. Congratulations also to our Pitch and Putt girls who captured silver medals last weekend. The team was Yvonne Hannafin, Emer O’Mahony, Charlene Curran, Emma Leen and Amy O’Hara. FARMERS: Hilary Egan is the new Rural Resource Worker with North Kerry Together. Her job is to work with low income smallholders, providing good, clear useful information on your rights and entitlements. If you are finding it hard to make ends meet, she can help you apply for Farm Assist. If you are already on Farm Assist, you can earn extra income working with the Rural Social Scheme. For more information contact Hilary on (068) 23429. This service is free and confidential. LADIES FOOTBALL: U12 - Training on Saturday in Abbeydorney from 11am to 1pm. Please note change of time. There will be an U12 challenge game on Tuesday, June 7. Details at training. The area was saddened at the news of the death of Tice Dowling of Coolard who was just approaching his 80th birthday. A member of a very well known and highly respected family Tice came from a family with a strong farming and Gaelic Football background. Much admired for his honesty and integrity Tice was a great conversationalist and really enjoyed calling to his neighbours houses for a good chat. A very diligent and hard working man all his life Tice was a good neighbour to everyone in the area and enjoyed many of the old traditions in life. Very efficient in the old methods of farming Tice was never apprehensive of hard work and always ensured that his family were well catered for. He adapted quickly to the advent of modern farming machinery which made farming in general a lot less laborious. He enjoyed the days of going to the nearby Coolbeha Creamery with his milk and stopping off at his sisters Babe's grocery shop afterwards for some domestic food requirements and a good chat with his many local farming friends. It was a great source of regret to him when Coolbeha Creamery closed leading also to the closure of the nearby shop. A man with a great sense of humour and wit he enjoyed calling to neighbours houses where he would catch up with everything that was happening in the area. He also had a great passion for the game of 41and travelled to all of the local houses where the game was played. One of his great regrets was that the strength of the game in the area in recent years declined so much with very few young people not playing the game. Well known for his gardening prowess Tice sewed a nice garden every year which was always a source of admiration for passers by. Coming from a family with strong Gaelic football ties Tice had a great passion for the game and it stayed with him all his life. Tice was a very accomplished footballer in his day and turned in many fine performances with the Coolard and later the Ballydonoghue team. His brother Eddie and late brother Denis distinguished themselves with the Kerry senior team while his younger brother Danny was also a very good footballer. He followed the fortunes of the Ballydonoghue team with immense interest and was also a great supporter of Shannon Rangers and of all Kerry teams at all grades. Tice was well known on the local socialising scene and enjoyed a few sociable drinks and a good chat on a Sunday night at Cantillon's Bar in Ballydonoghue. For many years Tice walked the couple of miles for his pint but later invested in a tractor and that was his mode of transport after that. A man that had a great interest in the welfare of others Tice lived his life by good Christian values and was very straight in all his dealings with other people. Unwell for a while Tice still retained a positive outlook on life and was very well looked after by his wife and family. Very large congregations turned out to pay their last respects at the wake at his residence in Coolard and again at the removal of his remains from his residence to St. Theresa's Church in Ballydonoghue. The church was overflowing for the con celebrated Requiem Mass. The chief celebrant was Fr. Timmy Dowling son of the deceased who is now based in the United States. Fr Timmy described his father as a great family provider and a man that enjoyed rambling to houses in the area. He said Tice never left the house without his cap and his pipe was one of his prize possessions which he smoked every day right up to the time of his sad passing. Fr Timmy concluded by summing up his life in the last two verses of the Fury's famous song "I miss him the ould man" which brought a round of applause from the solemn gathering, A large congregation accompanied the cortege for the burial that took place to Gale cemetery. Many of his former sporting colleagues and his many good friends formed a guard of honour outside the church and his coffin was draped in the Kerry, Ballydonoghue and Shannon Ranger's jerseys. Tice is survived by his wife Mary, sons John and Fr. Timmy daughter Eileen, brothers Eddie and Danny, grand - children to whom deepest sympathy is extended. ASDEE SALUTES STEVIE Well known Kilcolman man Stevie Deenihn got a nice surprise on Friday night when a special birthday party was hosted for him at Jack J's to mark his 85th birthday The special social function was organised by the local G.A.A. club as Stevie if the president of the club. Still very hale and hearty Stevie took all the fuss made over him in his stride and really enjoyed the social function. A fanatical G.A.A. fan all his life Stevie follows the game with a great passion at club and county level and has been attending games all his life. While Gaelic Football is his favourite sport he also has a great interest in rugby and soccer and is well versed in most popular sports. An avid reader all his life Stevie also has very strong political affiliations and has a keen interest in everything that is happening in the area. A great exponent of the game of 41 Stevie is a great supporter of all organisations in the parish. He also enjoys the odd trip overseas to visit his daughter Mary and her family in the UK. To mark the occasion the chairman of Asdee G.A.A. Jim O Connor presented him with a nice piece of Waterford Crystal. He paid tribute to Stevie for all his support in promoting the game in the area. Everyone joins in wishing Stevie many more happy years of health and contentment. ADULT EDUCATION TUTORS Persons that are interested in offering Adult Education Courses at Tarbert Comprehensive School are invited to contact the Adult Education Director Noel Keenan. Please submit a Curriculum Vitae and other relevant information. LOOKING GREAT I bumped into a good friend and former working colleague of mine in Listowel on Friday and it rekindled memories of our great days together on the work force of D O Sullivan and sons in Ballylongford. Michael Enright of Rusheen is looking well in his retirement as is his wife Bridie. We seldom meet now since the much lamented closure of O Sullivan's back in 1990 so it was nice to relive some of the old memories of the 1980's. Michael is now enjoying his retirement and is looking as fit as a fiddle. He enjoys regular walks down to Carrig Island and is still has a very healthy appetite for football. A man that donned the Ballylongford and Shannon Rangers jersey with distinction for many years he isstill a great follower of the game at club and county level. Well known for his gardening attributes he kills a lot of his spare time setting his garden which goes in a long way to meet domestic food requirements. He has a nice patch of early potatoes sewed at present and he hopes to have them on the kitchen table within a couple of weeks. ASDEE RACE DANCE The Asdee Race Committee is holding a fundraising Dance at The Golf Hotel in Ballybunion on this Friday night June 3rd with music by Eddie Lee. To cater for younger people it will be followed by a Disco. Tickets are now widely on sale priced ?5 and good local support would be appreciated. The Asdee Races were revived 3 years ago after a lapse of 30 years and they have since developed into a highly successful annual event that brings out the local community in very large numbers to the seaside course on the beautiful Littor Strand. The Race Committee has prided itself on the fine programme of racing they provide every year and the very good prize money that is up for grabs. Like any event of this nature a substantial financial outlay is necessary to maintain the appeal of the event so fund - raising activities always top of the priority list. Therefore it is most important that the community lends their full support to the forthcoming dance so even if you are unable to make it to the dance on Friday night buy a ticket and lend your support for the continued success of the Asdee Races. The Races are now the top sporting and social event on the local calendar and they will be staged again this year in September. KILCONLY MASS The annual Mass at Kilconly Cemetery will be held on this Friday night June 3rd at 8pm. The small country graveyard is located in a quite and serene location on the coast road between Ballybunion and Beale and it has been kept in excellent condition in recent years thanks to the local graveyard committee. The Mass will be celebrated by Ballybunion p.p. Fr. Martin Hegarty. COMMUNITY GAMES COLLECTION The Ballylongford/Asdee Community Games are holding their annual church gate collection at all Masses in Asdee and Ballylongford this weekend. A generous response would be apppreciateed. CITIZENS INFORMATION The Citizens Information Centre are holding an outreach service in Ballybunion Community Centre every Friday from 2pm to 5pm commencing on June 10th 2005. WEEKEND OF SOCIALISING IN ASDEE It was a busy weekend on the sporting and socialising front in Asdee with the Asdee Rovers Soccer Club playing host to the Hanwell Town over 35 soccer team from West London. The touring party arrived by mini bus from Shannon Airport early on Saturday morning and were accommodated at The Golf Hotel in Ballybunion. On Saturday evening they headed back to Asdee for the big game against the Asdee over 35 team. Craughdarrig Park as the venue for the big game with Patrick O Brien the man in charge of proceedings. Despite two days and nights of continuous rain the Asdee pitch was in great condition which is a tribute to the ground staff. A good crowd turned up to view the much talked about game and it was played in a very good sense of sportsmanship. The game developed into a very entertaining affair and gave the attendance good value for money. While the game was delicately balanced throughout Asdee were the more creative team on the night and emerged victorious on a 3 - 1 scoreline. The goalscorers were Donie O Keeffe, Tom Costello and Mike Griffin. At the end of the game treasurer of the Asdee Rovers Club Eamon Collins made a presentation of an inscribed plaque to the Hanwell Club to mark their first visit to Asdee. After the game both teams travelled over the road to Jesse James Tavern which was the venue for the post match get together. A nice array of hot and cold food was laid on which added to the enjoyment of the occasion for everyone. It turned out to a great evening of socialising with both teams having an opportunity of getting to know each other and many new friendships were established in the process. The Hanwell Town Club found their visit to Asdee to be a very enjoyable experience and they issued a special word of thanks to the Asdee club for the very kind hospitality they afforded them. They also issued an invitation to the Asdee club to visit London next year for the return leg where they promised the very best of London hospitality for them. The Hanwell team flew back to London on Monday morning from Shannon Airport. The Asdee team was Ned Moloney, Mike Higgins, John Gorman, Sean O Keeffe, Jim Holmes, Tommy Mulvihill, Donie O Keeffe, James Doherty, Mike Griffin, Jimmy Quinn, Tom Costello, subs Paddy Mc Elligott Tom Gorman TOM FINDS NEW SUPPORTERS It was a busy weekend for Asdee man Tom Gorman who turned in a great performance when he was introduced as sub goalie for the Asdee over 35 soccer team in their big game against Hanwell Strollers from West London. Tom has the distinction of being one of the very few Derby County Supporters in the whole county of Kerry. Tom has supported the club through thick and thin and was very disappointed when they lost out in the play offs for promotion to the premiership in England at the end of the season. However Tom got a nice surprise at Jesse James Tavern on Saturday night when he bumped into two more Derby County Supporters who are holidaying in the area at the moment. Tom went out onto the street to have a smoke and he got chatting to two English men who were looking for a nice place to engage in a bit of fishing in North Kerry. Their conversation progressed to sport and lo and behold Tom discovered that both men were from Derby and are huge Derby County Supporters. Jim Watson and Ian Mogg are out and out Derby fans and made many new friends in Asdee during the course of the night. They are staying in Ballylongford for the next couple of days and are looking forward to some fishing in the area.. The big news is that they are taking a photo of Tom Gorman during the week and he will be appearing in the official Derby County Website next week. Check out the website next week and you will be able to see Tom in all his glory. TOM IS BIG IN TARBERT Meanwhile Tom Gorman is also making a big name for himself as a Gaelic football referee and is widely respected throughout the county for his prowess on the whistle. By all accounts he is a bit of a pin up now at Tarbert Comprehensive School with his name appearing in strategic places all over the school. The banners read Tom is magic, Tom is Cool and Tom is gone to China. If Tom is gone to China he hasn't arrived yet, GOLF TRIP A meeting of the Asdee Golf Society will be held at Jesse James Tavern on this Saturday night at 9 30pm. Top of the agenda will be discussing the society's one week trip to Tunisia on next January. All members are also reminded that the first round of the match play competition must be completed by June 25th. The Society's next outing is non June 25th at The Gap of Dunloe. LOTTO HITS ?10,200 Tickets for the Asdee Rovers weekly lottery sold like hot cakes again at the weekend with everyone striving their best to win the record breaking Jackpot. However there was no joy for punters at Jack J's on Sunday night when the balls were drawn out of the drum and the big windfall is alive for another week The numbers drawn were 7 - 17 - 21 - 23. The lucky dip prize winners were ?50 Bobby and Tracey O Keeffe, Tralee ?25 Sean Deenihan, Killemoroe, Lisselton ?25 Eddie Joe Collins and Joe Rice Syndicate, This week's draw ill be held at Jesse James tavern and with the Jackpot at ?10,200 buy early and buy often as the jackpot is on borrowed time now and someone could be walking away with the mouth watering Jackpot on Sunday night. NEW CARETAKER The new soccer grounds at Craughdarrig Park will be in tip top shape from now on with a new caretaker taking up duty at the pitch on last Monday. Sean Whyte of Clounamon has been appointed for the job and a working programme was compiled for him during the week which should keep him busy for the rest of the year. Sean has participated in a number of Community Employment Schemes both in Asdee and Ballylongford and is looking forward to his new appointment in Asdee. G.A.A. County League Div 5 at Walsh Park Sat May 28th 7 3Opm Asdee v Ballydonoghue Weekend of June 5th Seniors away to Cordal NKL Div 2 at Walsh Park Asdee A v Emmets B Wed June 1st 8pm FUND - RAISING DRAW The Asdee G.A.A. club are presently promoting a new Field Development Draw and are seeking support throughout the community. The present venture is a five month draw and the subscription is ?10 per month or ?50 to be included for the 5 months. There will be ?1OOO to be given away each month with 1st prize ?5OO 2nd ?3OO and 2 ?1OO prizes All paid up members will qualify for an extra draw for ?5OO on the 3rd month. Promoters will be calling to all households in the area in the coming weeks and they would appreciate good local support. Anyone that is not approached can join the new draw by contacting any member of the club. Tir na nOg Community Childcare: Don‚t Forget, this weekend, Sunday 5th (whit) we are having our annual abseil from the Castle Green cliff down to the Men‚s Beach. So far there are about 60 people partaking in the event which will begin at 12 noon and continue until everyone has finished. On the same day there will be a lot of entertainment for everyone else, including our 14‚‚ trampoline, face painting, Tony Moore‚s disco and karaoke and a giant barbecue. There will also be a photographer to record the abseilers. A big thanks to the Ballybunion Sea and Cliff Rescue who are helping us out again this year, making sure that everyone is safe and well. We are praying for some good weather on the day and that we will get a lot of support from everyone. As we still have received no money from the government, all money raised will go towards some new equipment and the running costs for the next year. Our Summer schedule is as follows: 10am 12 noon and 2pm 6pm, Monday to Friday for the months of July and August Children aged 2 to 12 years are welcome to attend our Summer Camp. Run in separate groups according to age, the children may take part in a multitude of activities, including arts and crafts, sports, pool and table tennis, free play, board games and the trampoline, while being supervised by highly qualified and experienced staff in a safe and stimulating environment. This costs 5 per hour or 12.50 for the morning and 16 for the afternoon session. Sunday 12th June, children attending the after-school or Kids Club are welcome to come to Siamsa Tire to see the Joanne Barry show. Please let Sorcha or Grainne know ASAP. BEALE GAA: Beale Seniors - Beale Seniors played the final of the North Kerry League in Listowel on Saturday last against Tarbert. It was a great display from both sides and Beale were unfortunate to lose out on the day. Final score 1-7 to 0-8 pts. Scorers: Tom Hayes 0-1, Mark Hannon 0-2, James McMahon 0-2, and Ian Blake 0-3. Beale Seniors are at home to Valentia on Sat next at 7.30pm. Beale Juniors - Beale Juniors had two greta wins this week. First against Listowel C on tuesday night at home 5-9 to 0-4 pts and on Friday to St. Senans 3-5 to 1-6. GOLF CLASSIC - This is the nineth year of the Beale Golf Classin - 7 yrs played on the Cashen Course - 2nd year over Prestigious Old Course with Mike Shanahan ( ex Beale GAA player) captain of BGC. Over 80% of teams playing in this years classic have been taking part from the begining. Over 50 teams will play in this years classic. Hugh event for the club and a major fundraiser. Special thanks to the Staff and Management / Staff / Committee of Ballybunion Golf Club, Sponsoors the Holly family, Local Sponsors and all the teams who will participate on the day. OBITUARIES: Many tears have been shed at all the funerals that have taken place in the Parish in the last few weeks, but none more so than at the funeral on Sat. last of Pat Beazley,late of East End, son of Michael & Margaret Beazley. Shock and disbelief greeted the news of his death in South Africa at the early age of 38 two weeks ago. During the long wait while all the formalities,including cremation, took place, the level of support and comfort extended to his family was evidence of the respect and affection in which the Beazley family is held in. The crowds at the funeral mass at St. John’s on Sat. were among the largest seen in the Parish for a long time. Even though Pat is gone from Ballybunion for almost twenty years, practically every one of his school mates turned up to form a Guard Of Honour, each one of them with their own favourite anecdote about his legendery wit and sense of humour. The dignity with which his family conducted his burial in Killehenny left everyone present deeply moved. The deepest sympathy of the community is extended to his parents, Michael & Margaret, his brother Ger sisters Anna & Avril, His brother in law, Aunts, Uncles, Nephews, Niece, Cousins and many friends. RETIREMENT Best wishes to Madeline Fitzmaurice on her retirement as our local Librarian. During her years as Librarian, Madeline oversaw the introduction of many new inovations at the local Branch Library, including the provision of Internet facilities. She was always helpful and patient with our many requests for books. We will repeat here her constant message “use the Library or we could loose it”. So come on schools etc. are you all doing your bit to retain this essential service ?We certainly do not want to loose it !The Library remains open at the usual times. May you enjoy many happy years of retirement Madeline and thank you. GOOD LUCK: Best wishes and every success to all the students from the Parish who are about to THE new bingo will kick off on Monday, June 6 at 8.30pm. Line has gone up to ?50 and the full house will be ?100. There is a raffle with a monster monthly raffle. We are asking for your support in making the bingo viable again. LOTTO: There was no winner of last week’s lotto on Monday, May 23. If not won on May 30 the lotto will be ?7,600 on June 6. Note this lotto is on borrowed time and has to be won shortly. MASS: The annual Mass in Kilconly graveyard will be held on this Friday, June 3 at 8pm. The committee appreciate any help and support given. ST JOSEPH’S SECONDARY SCHOOL: Congratulations to all the sixth years who graduated on Friday at a very moving ceremony. The very best of luck to them and the Junior certs in their upcoming exams. GOOD LUCK: All at St Joseph’s wish the very best to Evelyn Walsh and Fergus Fitzmaurice on the teaching staff who are moving on from the school this year. FUNNY MONEY: All the best to Joanne Gallagher after her success with “The Field”. She will be performing in “Funny Money” In St John’s, Listowel on Thursday, June 2 at 8pm. RETIREMENTS: All the staff and students at St Joseph’s wish the very best of luck and a huge thank you to Anne Hannon (Secretary) and Niall Horgan (Deputy Principal) on their retirements from the school. We all wish Niall a speedy recovery to good health. 
