sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    March 17 2008 04:53 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eugene-mcgee/gaa-raking-in-the-money-despite-the-empty-seats-26431020.html }
The document which contains all the financial information about the GAA is produced annually around this time and it always contains some very interesting statistics. Unlike most large organisations which specialise in a regime of minimal information to comply with the law, the GAA has no qualms about telling all when it comes to money. The most interesting single statistic this year is the pie chart on page 44, which shows that, for the first time, gate receipts in the GAA in 2007 were only a minority portion of the association's revenue. Gate money comprised 48pc of money taken in -- an astonishing statistic when one considers that, around 10 years ago, gate receipts represented about 70pc of what went into the coffers. But now commercial revenue and "other income" together account for almost as much as gate receipts with government Sports Council grants (excluding GPA grants!) at 6pc accounting for the rest. The fact that the GAA earns more money from non-gate receipts shows clearly the way the commercial, some would call it professional, aspect of GAA activity has swung away from traditional gate receipts. Indeed, that disparity will be even more obvious in 2008 when the new TV contracts and sponsorship deals will probably double both those items in 2007. We will soon be seeing the total of GAA money being split around 40-60, with gate receipts in the minority. Most of this new departure in GAA finance is a good news story. But one wonders why, with very expensive admission charges in recent years, the overall income at the turnstiles seems to be falling away in the overall scheme of things. Clearly there is a great deal of apathy for run-of-the-mill GAA inter-county matches by comparison with 25 years ago. Many National League games are failing to attract large crowds while some of the earlier rounds of the championships and All-Ireland qualifiers can provide fairly meagre crowds and miserly financial returns. The question the GAA has to look at is whether the vast amounts of money being provided to the GAA by non- turnstile activity is leading to a certain laziness in promoting the games live in many parts of the country. One has only to look at the bedraggled attempts at promoting big National League games to see that. Throwing a couple of inter-county stars into a photo event at a bridge or a riverside and hoping that will succeed in bringing GAA followers to the boil in February or March is really wishful thinking. It is not just the money that is important in the fall-off of live attendances. The greatest promotion football and hurling can ever get is to watch the big stars playing throughout the season, particularly in relation to young people. It is obvious that during the National Leagues and even early championship games, youngsters are not being brought by parents to watch their heroes in the flesh in very large numbers. This should be the ultimate form of promotion for young players but the GAA is failing in that regard. The shining example of how to promote a League game properly was the Dublin-Tyrone NFL tie in February 2007. A crowd of 80,000-plus in a floodlit Croke Park with live Setanta coverage -- that is the way things should be done. Why, for example, was the Dublin-Meath League fixture this year not played as the opening round of the 2008 League campaign in the same way? And why do hardly any county boards even advertise their own home games in the League? Has nobody in the GAA got imagination or flair any more as regards the promotion of league games? Even League of Ireland soccer is making a better fist of promoting their games than the GAA. There is another section in the financial statement that may well hold the clue to apathy in games promotion. Under the heading of 'Operating payments to Clubs, Counties and Provinces 2007' we find the startling figure of €45,009,639. This is the amount of money handed out all over the country and abroad by the GAA; just like the good old days of the EU headage payments for the farmers. Even the smallest counties get handsome rewards under these headings, such as Longford -- €375,842; Leitrim -- €738,702 (including €500,000 grant for their new stand); Westmeath -- €274,944. Of course some of the larger counties really hit the jackpot, most notably Dublin with €2,488,853 (€300,000 capital grant) and Antrim with €1,268.090 (€950,000 capital grant). People have often queried my assertion that the GAA is awash with money but with figures like these can anybody really argue the point? Remember, all counties also have their own internal gate receipts, sponsorship, and commercial income also. All this is genuinely great news for GAA boards which had been impoverished for so long and the bonanza from Croke Park, in particular, is just reward for all the people who had faith in Croker and overcame Rule 42. But only a fool would deny that the financial affluence of the GAA poses many new problems, not least a certain dilution in the fanatical volunteers of former times. It is not just county players who are growing fat at times from all the money and facilities available to county teams. Other GAA people may be suffering from the same tendency to lie back and enjoy it. The poor attendances at games in the first-half of every year should be a salutary warning to all GAA people. And, as Brian Cowen is learning, financial situations can change for the worse at alarming speed. Attendances at most of the big championship games are very good generally but the regular presence of Dublin footballers in Croke Park tends to give an unbalanced impact. For example, the meeting of Monaghan and Derry in the Ulster SFC only drew 13,000 while a double bill of Laois v Wexford in football and Kilkenny v Wexford in the Leinster hurling final had a smallish attendance by previous comparisons of 34,872. Derry v Mayo in the football qualifiers drew a paltry 4,872 and amazingly the Connacht football final between Galway and Sligo in Roscommon had a crowd of only 7,586. Even more shocking was that the hurling qualifier on July 15 between Offaly and Dublin had a paid attendance of 310 people. Can that really be possible between two important senior hurling counties? But, then when Laois played Clare in the hurling qualifiers, the paltry attendance was just 962. So despite the financial euphoria that has swept GAA circles in recent years perhaps a note of caution is advisable when we see major championship games between well-known county teams producing such pathetic attendances. Using overall attendances as a correct barometer of public demand for GAA games is not accurate, as these figures show. The reason why so many games draw poor crowds in the height of summer requires investigation followed by action from GAA bosses. Otherwise the GAA rich will get richer while the poor get poorer - thus mirroring the general state of Irish life. 
