sport gaa
{ Alan Ruddock 
    September 27 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/gaa-the-big-loser-as-money-runs-out-26569311.html }
In the countdown to this December's budget, the fightback against the McCarthy report gathers momentum. In the past two weeks, three cabinet ministers have joined the fray and the arts establishment has launched a spirited campaign to defend its funding. To call it a cabinet revolt would be stretching credulity -- two of the ministers are Martin Cullen and Eamon O Cuiv, whose departments face extinction, while the third is Mary Coughlan, the lightweight tanaiste -- but the resistance has gathered some momentum. At Farmleigh last weekend, the case for protecting arts funding was made eloquently, and loudly, by Neil Jordan and Bob Geldof. Irish culture, we are told, contributes billions to the economy and plays a critical role in opening doors and markets abroad. In stark contrast to the noise generated by the culture lobby, the sports world seems to be greeting its hefty budget cuts with grim resignation. The scale of the recommended cuts are severe -- McCarthy calls for a €17m cut in the Irish Sports Council's budget and a €16m cut in funding for horse and greyhound racing -- and they will have a profound impact on the ISC's funding of sport next year if they are implemented in full. So where are the howls of outrage and the impassioned defence of everything that has been achieved on the back of the taxpayers' money? The problem for sport is that it cannot mount a credible defence for the funding it has received over the past dozen years of Fianna Fáil's largesse, because that funding has not been secured or applied on the back of any evidence-based policies. If sports funding had been well administered, then defence would be easy. Each euro of investment could be justified because it had delivered enhanced -- and measurable -- participation in sport, thereby increasing the nation's health and reducing the ever-spiralling cost of healthcare. It would even be possible, by this stage of the investment programme, to demonstrate how much money had been saved by investing in sport. And that, lest we forget, is why the state should spend the taxpayers' money on sport. As part of that objective, the state funds elite sport -- sports stars and sporting success encourage participation and provide good role models -- but public policy objectives are about health, not sporting glory. Unfortunately, Ireland's sporting budget was treated differently. Much of the money that flowed to sport from the taxpayers was seen as a political slush fund, not an instrument of public policy. Sports Capital Grants may have required extensive form-filling and politically correct assertions about how the money would enhance participation (particularly among the disadvantaged) but it was constituency politics that all too often determined the flow. That world has gone and in its place comes a far harsher one. The timing of the economic slump could not have been worse for the traditional team sports -- GAA, soccer, rugby -- that have done so well out of the past decade. Just as the money had started to tighten up, the Irish Sports Council finally got around to commissioning and publishing the Irish Sports Monitor, an ESRI project that measures sports participation. Its first report, published last year, covered 2007 and its second report, covering 2008, will be published next month. The first report highlighted the long-standing deficiencies in sports funding and concluded that "the majority of sporting activity is occurring beyond or on the fringes of official sporting organisations. This strongly implies that policy mechanisms that rely on the pre-existing sporting bodies have limited scope unless those bodies can reach out beyond the sporting and social networks they currently engage with." The result is that the traditional sports will now face intense competition for a far shallower pool of funds and only those that can show real improvements in participation will have a case for a share of those funds. For the first time in Irish sports policy, evidence will play a role in decision-making and that has consequences for all sports that fall under the ISC's remit. It will be a steep and painful learning curve for those who have come to rely on the state's generosity and for those who have doled it out. There will be cries of anguish from the GAA in particular, because as the largest recipient of public funds it has the most to lose. Proper implementation of sports funding must not be portrayed as an attack on the GAA, but as a genuine attempt to get more people active by directing limited funds towards initiatives that actually increase participation in all forms of sport. That, not building clubhouses in a minister's constituency, is the real policy objective. 
