sport gaa
{  
    December 08 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-time-to-stop-the-shadowboxing-25917707.html }
HERE we go again, folks! Last Friday's World Cup draw has reactivated that  trusty old lifesaver that keeps the Irish sports media ticking over during the quiet months of winter - the 'Croke Park and soccer' debate. Why won't the GAA allow soccer in Croke Park? When will we see soccer in Croke Park? The GAA should be made hand over Croke Park for soccer matches. And on and on and on . . . I am often amused, watching from the outside, at the games of cat and mouse which are annually played out by GAA officials and their soccer counterparts when these debates, if you could call them that, break out. It is typical of many other Irish debates, full of hypocrisy, deceit, and posturing. The GAA people bend over backwards nowadays never to say a bad word about soccer or about the way it has been run in this country, north and south, for the past 100 years. That's because they know that the majority of GAA followers are also avid soccer supporters and many of them actually know more about that sport and its leading teams than they do about GAA teams. So the GAA does not want to be perceived as being critical of soccer. The soccer officials are equally determined in their public utterances to praise the GAA to the high heavens at every opportunity and to let people know that in their youth they too played GAA games, presumably before seeing the light and moving over to what GAA writers in former times used to refer to as the 'no handling code'. Last week, however, a well-known soccer administrator, Noel O'Reilly, broke the golden rule. He openly criticised the GAA for, as he claimed, deliberately fixing games at times that would leave young players who also played soccer with an agonising choice of which sport to give their allegiance to. In effect, he said that some GAA officials went out of their way to upset soccer people. He was dead right of course because this happens all the time. But the reverse is also true and in the days before the GAA became politically correct and governed by spin doctors, Noel O'Reilly would have got his answer within hours. Some GAA official would have have presented him with a list of dates when soccer bodies fixed underage games at times and venues which forced GAA players to make a choice, usually when the relevant soccer match was more important than the GAA match the young lads were due to play. Sadly, the GAA does not fight its corner like that anymore. The truth is that all over Ireland, from the most backward rural parish to the inner cities, there has been a battle going on for the past 25 years between soccer and GAA for the hearts, minds and bodies of teenage boys. It is a battle that has generally swung in favour of the soccer people because they have been better organised at underage level and are capable of giving young boys the one thing they most want from their sport, a regular series of games. Soccer clubs are far more user-friendly than GAA clubs in that they are largely devoid of the army of officials that infest GAA clubs. Soccer clubs at junior and underage level focus solely on putting out teams every week according to a prearranged fixture programme that is hardly ever altered. After 119 years of existence, only a fraction of GAA clubs can offer that basic facility to young players. I constantly get e-mails bearing horror stories of under-16 and under-18 club players being left without competitive games for anything up to ten weeks in the height of the summer. It's manna from heaven for well organised soccer clubs with their regular fixtures. Where soccer has done the most damage to the GAA is in the secondary schools, particularly in Dublin. In the competition for secondary students in most large urban areas, the GAA has a constant battle to hold its own - even in some of the legendary GAA colleges. In sporting terms, nobody should be unduly worried about this because we should be glad teenage boys are playing any sport nowadays and soccer and GAA games are merely commodities to these young people. Today they may pick GAA; next week it may be soccer. The baggage of nationalism, the Irish language and moral sporting superiority that so many older GAA people attach to their sport is absolutely irrelevant to modern youth. For them, it comes down simply to a choice between two brands of football. It is in that context that the GAA should stop this silly softly, softly approach to other sports. Other sports are, without question, competitors for the GAA and should be treated as such. However, in the case of the use of Croke Park, we have a different situation. I have heard many GAA people ask why should the GAA give Croke Park to their competitors and give them a leg up in the process? On the surface, there appears to be logic in that argument. But the GAA has to treat Croke Park as a major financial asset which needs to be utilised as much as possible to maximise the asset. Therefore, it makes sense to rent it out to other competing sports for that very reason. This is commonplace in the business world. If we take the printing business as an example, we find there are many instances around Ireland where a regional newspaper prints papers other than its own, some of which are in direct opposition to itself. It is the same with national newspapers where one company with modern printing facilities may be printing many different newspapers. What amuses me particularly about the so-called Croke Park debate is the shilly-shallying that goes on between the three bodies, the GAA, FAI and IRFU. The latter two claim they have never spoken to the GAA about using Croke Park and the GAA always says that no other sporting organisation has ever asked if they could use the stadium. If we took that at face value, then why is there any debate? Sure, nobody wants to hire Croke Park. But, of course, this is all shadowboxing, as opposed to arseboxing. If all sides were behaving in a businesslike manner, the following would happen immediately. The GAA would ask the FAI and the IRFU to outline under what circumstances, and how often, they would rent Croke Park over the next five, ten and 15 years if they had the option. The FAI and the IRFU would negotiate a price for the hiring of the stadium. A list of possible dates on which the stadium would be available for non-GAA games would be drawn up. All that information would then be made available to the GAA officials involved in making the decisions regarding future use of Croke Park. Making a decision would then be a clinical business decision, as it should be. Nowadays, practically everything in the GAA has a price, down to a markings on a hurley. Croke Park represents the ultimate in that commercialisation of the GAA and the decision about its use is purely a business one. The sideshows between soccer, rugby and GAA people about their other activities should not be dragged into the Croke Park debate at all. e-mail: 
eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
