sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    July 21 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/a-steady-hand-on-the-26306032.html }
LIAM MULVIHILL was a shock selection when he was named as Director General, or General Secretary as it was then called, of the GAA in 1979. Several other better-known GAA officials had been touted for the job of replacing Seán Ó Siocháin and few GAA people paid much attention to the 33-year-old schools inspector from Longford. After all, he had only been on the Central Council for a few years and such senior GAA appointments usually went to people who had served their time for much longer than that. But the president of the time, the late Con Murphy of Cork, had assessed the newcomer in depth and decided that he represented the sort of break with the past that the organisation needed, as it headed into the rapidly changing sporting, social and economic whirlpool that Ireland represented as the 1980s approached. Murphy's opinion won the necessary backing at the GAA's Management Committee and Liam Mulvihill was given 10 minutes by the president one Saturday to accept or reject the offer to become the chief executive of Ireland's largest sporting organisation. When he said yes to Con Murphy that day, the Corkman was taking a huge gamble for a man who was seen by most GAA people as an arch conservative in GAA terms. But, in this instance, he showed his ability to rise above personal prejudices in order to do something that was for the greater good of the GAA. And Liam Mulvihill's appointment certainly was that. Turmoil We have only to look at the sort of organisational turmoil that has, from time to time, afflicted nearly every other national organisation in this country, from the Catholic Church to political parties to other sporting organisations, to appreciate the level of stability that he has brought to the GAA. When one considers that no other organisation has such widespread membership in every parish, urban and rural, in Ireland and that the GAA has had to confront more major controversies than any other sports body, Mulvihill's capacity to maintain equilibrium and an ever-present sense of positive direction has been truly remarkable. There were the troubles in the Six Counties, when many GAA members were murdered, grounds were vandalised and the Crossmaglen GAA pitch was hijacked by the British Army; and also the Hunger Strike when sections of the GAA were virtually commandeered by protesters. The arrival of commercial sponsorship into an organisation that had previously extolled the virtues of strict amateurism; the threat from television when Sky got involved with the Premiership and provided Irish viewers with a non-stop diet of British soccer. The on-going controversy over Rule 21 which banned RUC and British Forces members from GAA membership at a time when everybody was calling for old attitudes on such matters to change. The decision to develop the internationals between Australian Rules and GAA teams. These were but some of the huge issues that landed on Liam Mulvihill's lap during the past 27 years, all of which were expeditiously dealt with. Most people in the GAA had little idea of what exactly Liam Mulvihill's role was apart from the fact that he was the boss of the Croke Park administration system. That's because there has never been a comprehensive job description for the two top positions in the organisation, president and director general. As a result, a sort of balancing act has developed between the two posts with the president becoming the public face of the GAA while the director general remains totally in the background. This is completely different to what happens in most other sports bodies, most notably the FAI and the IRFU. I doubt if 10 people out of 100 would know the name of the president of these two bodies, but nearly everybody knows who the GAA president is. Background By his very nature, Liam Mulvihill was very happy to allow that system to prevail during his term of office. Being the 'song and dance man' for the GAA, as some presidents have been, would be totally alien to his character. He would have taken the job initially because it allowed him to pursue and promote the ideals of the GAA rather than for the monetary reward or the perceived status that the post would bring. That attitude has never changed since 1979 which largely explains why Liam Mulvihill never sought the limelight and rarely made television appearances. In addition, Liam also understood the severe limitations of the office of director general. His position was one of service to the organisation rather than a leader or innovator of dramatic new developments and he abided by that with one notable exception. That was the redevelopment of Croke Park into a world-class sports stadium and conference centre. This magnificent arena would never have reached fruition but for the single-minded determination of the director general. Certainly, we would have had a new stadium because GAA people at large would have insisted on that, but it would almost certainly have been a lesser project but for Mulvihill's determination to go for broke and provide the best that money could buy. Determination Undoubtedly, he and the GAA were lucky in that the development of the ground coincided with a boom period for the Irish economy which meant that finance was easy to raise for corporate boxes, interest rates on massive borrowings were low and Irish governments had no excuse for not making generous grants available. But that only meant the GAA will have paid for the new stadium at least 10 years sooner than expected. Liam Mulvihill is a very patient man and needed to be. One can only imagine the number of complaining letters landing on his desk over the past 27 years. Every crank in the country felt free to get onto him. As well as that, he had only one outlet for his personal thoughts on the GAA each year which was his annual report for Congress. In this he consistently highlighted the real issues that confronted the GAA but sadly, more often than not, the 300-odd delegates at Congress largely ignored what he said. That must have been hard to take especially as the years went on and his comments became more and more incisive, but it merely emphasised the weak position of the director general in the GAA's decision-making system, something that needs to be changed. "That crowd up in Croke Park" is a mantra with GAA people implying somehow that the full-time staff, of which Liam Mulvihill is the leader, are somehow not real GAA people like the foot-soldiers who line the pitches, train underage teams or take up church gate collections for the small rural club. Workhorse Of course, nothing could be further from the truth but, as the civil service of the GAA, it's true to say that the Croke Park administration will often be regarded with suspicion. That is the GAA way, sadly. In the time that Liam Mulvihill has been in office, the annual income of the GAA has increased from around £200,000 to today's figure of €44,000,000, a statistic that the CEO of any of Ireland's major PLCs would be extremely proud of. But earning money for the organisation would never have been at the top of his agenda, rather furthering the promotion of the games in every corner of Ireland and suitable places abroad. He played corner-back in 1963 when winning an All-Ireland colleges medal with St Mel's, Longford and, at that time, corner-backs were regarded as the 'sound men' of GAA teams, the real workhorses. They were strong, resolute, fearless and prepared to give their all for the cause regardless of the personal consequences. And they rarely looked for praise or awards for curbing the fancy forwards they came up against. Liam Mulvihill brought all those attributes with him to his new job in 1979 and never deviated in the intervening 28 years. Whatever needed to be done for his new 'team', the GAA organisation, he did it. The GAA will be very fortunate if they can find a replacement of equal stature. 
