sport gaa
{ David QuinnSocial Affairs Correspondent 
    October 05 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/gaa-the-critical-player-in-irish-sporting-life-says-report-25960320.html }
THE rise and rise of the GAA as the dominant player in Irish sporting life is underlined in a major new report. The study, from the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI), focuses on how sport benefits Irish society and shows that half a million of us play a sport. Another 400,000 of us help others play sport by volunteering as coaches, club officials, or simply by ferrying our kids back and forth from matches. The social aspects of sport have an economic value of ?1.4bn, said the ESRI. The GAA is confirmed as easily the biggest sporting organisation in Ireland. Based on a survey of more than 3,000 people, the report reveals that more than 40pc of those who volunteer for sports do so for the GAA. Soccer comes in a distant second, with 17pc. Hurling and Gaelic football are also by far the most popular sports in terms of numbers attending matches in a given year. Almost half of Irish people attend a sporting event of some kind per year and of those, 57pc attend either a GAA football match or a hurling match. Again, soccer is a distant second, with 16pc, and rugby trails in third place with 8pc. SOCIETY BENEFITS Men are more likely to be involved in sports than women, and are twice as likely to be a member of a sports club. In terms of club membership, the GAA again comes out on top - 29pc of all those who belong to a sports club belong to the GAA. But gyms score well with women - 38pc of females who belong to a sports club belong to a gym. The report, 'Social and Economic Value of Sport in Ireland', heavily emphasises the social benefits of sport. It finds that more people do volunteer sports work than volunteer to take part in social services or religious and Church activities. It estimates the economic value of sports volunteering at ?267m a year, and when club membership fees, the cost of attending matches and other factors are added, the total is ?1.4bn. The report emphasises the contribution of sport to society's 'social capital', a buzz-word made popular by American academic, Professor Robert Putnam. He recently addressed the Fianna Fail party on how volunteering knits our society closer together and builds up 'social capital'. 
