sport gaa
{  
    December 21 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/odonoghue-creating-difficulties-for-kellys-sensible-course-26238179.html }
ON the shortest day, when we should be looking forward to good deeds and  seasonal cheer, the jewel in the GAA crown, Croke Park, is again causing passionate debate. No issue has prompted so many column inches in recent weeks and, in a lean  time for news, journalists have been handed an early Christmas gift. Away from the  business of the games, the devil makes work for idle ON the shortest day, when we should be looking forward to good deeds and seasonal cheer, the jewel in the GAA crown, Croke Park, is again causing passionate debate. No issue has prompted so many column inches in recent weeks and, in a lean time for news, journalists have been handed an early Christmas gift. Away from the business of the games, the devil makes work for idle hands. Just as the debate looked as if it was going to be a penalty kick by Congress in April with the goalie gone off to tie his lace, the Minister for Sport puts a very substantial foot in it. This follows a long line of politicians who have failed to take the gun out of their trousers before letting off both barrels. Hard to credit, too, that most of these gentlemen are genuine GAA supporters. It makes you wonder if they are collectively very stupid . . . or if there is an ulterior motive for annoying the vast numbers of the GAA footsoldiers, be they men, women or children. It is appropriate at this stage to jog the memory. A considerable financial bribe at one Congress was enough to convince a few to back off this motion before. And while a man's word is his bond, the money has not been paid. Forget the spurious argument about changed circumstances. Then the GAA was supposed to rescue the bid for the European Soccer Championships. About as much chance of that succeeding as Bush and the desert rat having Christmas dinner together. Yet the fallout is always the same, the manure hits the fan and the GAA gets the blame. Same old story. So when those with real power to deliver sporting infrastructure to a very high standard start advising, begging, cajoling, bribing or bullying the GAA, the result is always the same from the rank and file viewpoint. They get seriously cheesed off. For me, the issue of the GAA and taxpayers' money is not just based on Croke Park. I am not going to labour the point about the GAA providing the best facilities with very little assistance until recently, but the failure of successive Governments to fund all sports properly is the great scandal. At the same time, the fight is against social breakdown in all its forms. Drink, drugs, obesity and cynicism: the cart is being put before the horse. We need alternatives. In every town in this country the local authority should be providing both indoor and outdoor facilities for all sporting bodies. In particular, they should be going to the GAA and asking them what they want in the form of pitches, dressingrooms etc. Then the local clubs could go and look after the masses and not have to worry about buying grounds at exorbitant prices and spending years paying it off. That energy is needed to organise teams, not running raffles. There are tribunals for less important matters. No vision of 'Sport for All' here. In spite of all this, Seán Kelly has seen fit to attempt to steer the sensible course and leave a bit of flexibility within the GAA to respond if the need arises, as it will on a few occasions every year. Most people know that Croke Park, in tandem with a redeveloped Lansdowne Road with a capacity of 50,000, would be the ideal solution so long as the Government would spend real money in every town and village on sport in general. From this the GAA would get the lion's share for maintaining a separate and unique culture and games. For showing a bit of proper leadership, Kelly gets it in the neck at a few conventions, most notably in Cork. And judging by some Leeside comments the county wants a poodle leading the organisation who hears no evil, sees no evil and speaks no evil - particularly where Croke Park is concerned. Is it any wonder their players went on strike and the golden goose, Santy, flew off to Australia? I refuse to believe that the sentiments expressed at the Cork convention are truly representative of Cork GAA followers who have a history of respect for all sports. Yet, if you send the dog out to bite the postman, it is hard to fault him if he is not too friendly in the pub later. Cork need a bit of PR. The bottom line on all of this, of course, is that the GAA, in Croke Park terms, is broke. Unless the organisation floats Croke Park as a public company and lets the ordinary follower buy shares . . . or gets interest free loans for a hundred years . . . then the debts are going to bring the organisation to its knees. And despite my constant misgivings about so many things in the GAA, I would rather our leaders make decisions about who uses Croke Park than some foreign bank. The debate on Croke Park was going well for the reformers until Minister O'Donoghue made his 'patriotic' appeal. This drove many ordinary club members into a white rage. Instead of letting a sleeping dog lie, the Minister stepped on his tail, which was a very unwise move. All it does is make sensible people change tack. I heard it at my own club's AGM. The vote next April is, therefore, not a done deal. When I considered all that has happened over the last few months it flashed through my mind that maybe we should leave the enemy at the gate. Yet that would be short sighted and ultimately self defeating and I don't like the idea of promoting one game or one group of players as representing some form of superior Irishness. Co-operation always beats confrontation. The GAA's best approach, long term, is to lease to the Government. Let's do it and get back to what we enjoy. Playing games. Watching games. 
