sport gaa
{  
    November 08 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/lighten-up-and-reclaim-that-pioneer-spirit-gaa-26579945.html }
"All are not saints who go to church" Italian proverb. The other day I met an Italian friend in Warsaw whom I hadn't seen for a while. Having settled in the closest Irish pub (naturally), he asked me what was new in Ireland. On holiday and not wishing to get into a eulogy about the state of the economy, I decided to fill him in on something I had been considering in my head all that week -- simultaneously espousing and chastising the GAA and the association's 125th anniversary celebrations. Discussing the GAA with people from other countries is always a tricky one. Really, it's just too complicated and I have no doubt it was a ball-busting experience for Enzo. You see, I absolutely adore the inter-county championship. It is impossible not to be exhilarated by the skill and pace of the games and the absolute bloody-minded honesty of the players. If you are not moved by the passion of the All-Ireland championship, you might want to check your pulse. It is an inspiration, especially in these tense times, to watch how the fans conduct themselves, at all times adhering to unspoken codes of conduct which are seldom violated, like the seemingly outdated notion of being as gracious in defeat as in victory. It is nourishment for the soul to know that this organisation, these sports, emerged and flourished as a cultural line in the sand. The fact is that their existence came about as an inspired decision to be constructive, to think ahead, generations ahead, and to provide young people with a solid seed from which a sense of cultural significance and belonging could flourish. This shows a level of vision, and understanding of time and place in Cusack & co that continues to define the GAA to this day. It has prospered because really big ideas that are honestly vested in human interest always stand up to the test of time. All that said, the GAA is a long way off from being the pillar of Irish society about which we heard so much all last week. Indeed, what seems apparent to me is that it is largely through the sheer power of Cusack's original idea, a blundering and often shambolic GAA continues to flourish today. The GAA is fortunate to be in possession of a product that appeals to us on so many different levels, a product purer than gold -- sports that go beyond the playing field and right into the very fabric of every community in the Irish nation. In the small towns and parishes of Ireland, the GAA has acquired an untouchable status as some kind of voluntary equivalent to national service. It is a sacred birthright that will instil a set of values into a young man, transforming him into an upstanding example of how an Irish man should be. This is not a bad thing in itself, but in my book there's something discouragingly urgent and overly-serious about the GAA, something that goes way beyond their station. How do the advertisements put it? "Belong". They'd teach the Mafia a few things. They are in possession of some big sentiments . . . "Then you'll be a man, my son." When I was a child, I couldn't get enough of Gaelic football. I played it with passion until I was 16 but even then, the goings-on of the GAA club were too heady for my senses. The who's who, the politics, the nepotism and the constant struggles for power within the parameters of sports clubs and parishes appeared to me to be claustrophobic and noxious. It seemed that the GAA often created friction where none otherwise existed. Back in the days, for instance, when you could only play for the club of the parish that you lived in, I remember tug-o-wars between neighbouring clubs over players of 12 or 13 years of age. It was all slightly ridiculous and humiliating for the kid involved. As a youngster, you felt like there might be something heavily profound in all this, something way too tied in with issues that had little to do with sport and a lot more to do with control. I heard many people last week referring to the GAA as the 'spirit of the nation'. This is nothing but a catchphrase. The GAA may be one of the truest defining elements in the spirit of this nation but it is disingenuous to claim that it stands alone. The spirit of the nation is a complex thing to define. Its essence is as eclectic as life itself. Theatre, literature, music, language, fishing, farming -- the list of pretenders could fill the pages of this newspaper. But I think that if we do want to be discussing the spirit of the nation, we should consider the following: At Croke Park next Saturday evening, the French national soccer squad will field a team of 11 players whose combined monthly earnings could probably pay for all of our national school teachers to get bonuses instead of pay cuts. They are going to fill 'headquarters' with 80,000 people, each having paid from €80 to €500 to watch a 'foreign code'. The very next day, in towns and villages all across this country, thousands and thousands of Irish people who dare to line out for a 'foreign code', in pursuit of distraction from the crock that is 2009 Ireland, will be denied the opportunity to play their sport on the best pitch available. Why? If someone can see the justice in this, then I would like to hear from them because it drives me to distraction. Why do we have to waste fortunes developing separate facilities for the same ends? I know of one town with a population of around 7,000 which now has eight pitches covering three sporting codes. There are two more in the pipeline. That will make 10. If you think about the percentage of the population that actually plays organised sports, this represents a astounding ratio. It is so tiresomely typical of everything in Ireland at present that we could simultaneously boast the worst teacher/pupil ratio and the best football pitch/player ratio in the developed world. In my eyes, the GAA is not the end all and be all when it comes to the spirit of the nation, but if the association could just lighten up and have the courage to take a bit of criticism, the GAA could stand alone once more, like Cusack & co, as pioneers of what the future spirit of the Irish nation might be. Before we parted, I brought my Italian friend up to speed on the holy fuss in Knock. "There is an Italian proverb," he said, "'Non tutti sono santi che vanno in chiesa' -- All are not saints who go to church." "Very true," I said. And all are not devils who don't. Sunday Independent 
