sport gaa
{ Cormac McQuinn 
    December 13 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/first-female-county-boss-women-dont-need-gender-quota-to-reach-top-of-gaa-35289378.html }
The first woman to be  appointed to the top job on a GAA county board has said she didn't need a gender quota to take charge in Tyrone.  Roisín Jordan said she worked her way up through the ranks without such measures and added: "I put myself forward and I didn't have any problems." Her remarks come as the GAA, IRFU and FAI all said they weren't consulted on Sport Minister Patrick O'Donovan's proposal to cut funding for sporting organisations that don't have enough women on their national boards.  The board of directors of the GAA and FAI currently have no female representatives, while there is one woman on the IRFU committee. Ms Jordan said she didn't need a gender quota and that as things stand she doesn't think there's anything stopping a woman rising to the rank of GAA president.  She told the Irish Independent how she first got involved in her local club and later served on Tyrone's competitions control committee (CCC) before seeking election to chairperson. Read more: Sports bodies face financial penalties unless 30pc of their board is female Read more: Comment: Quotas are a divisive tool - but in the short term they can break a cycle Ms Jordan said it would be good to see more women achieve senior roles in the GAA, but said: "You work your way up through it. You have to start at the grassroots levels." She said people taking roles in the GAA should be "good enough for the job". "You can't put people into positions just to fill your quota." But she said she'd like to hear more of a debate on gender quotas when asked if she would be opposed to their introduction. Under Mr O'Donovan's  proposal, funding allocated by the Sport Ireland agency would be cut to sporting organisations that fail to comply with the new rules requiring 30pc of national board's membership to be women. A GAA spokesman said the organisation welcomes the participation of women and that some have taken "officer roles".  He pointed out that the GAA doesn't have women footballers or hurlers so they don't enter the "administration stream" the way former male players do.  Women footballers and camogie players are covered by separate associations. The spokesman said the GAA wasn't involved in drawing up the gender quota proposals and will have to study them in detail. A spokesman for Irish rugby's governing body, the IRFU, urged Mr O'Donovan to discuss the plan with sporting bodies "before bringing any proposals forward". He said the IRFU's Union Committee currently has one female member and hopes to have more in future. The FAI said it will be appointing a woman to its board within the next year and listed several "important staff and volunteer" roles held by women, including the director of business partnerships. A spokesman said it would be "inappropriate" to comment on the minister's proposals since they have not yet been consulted. A spokesman for Mr O'Donovan said he has consulted with Sport Ireland and engagement with sporting bodies will be "paramount". He said Mr O'Donovan's view is that in the case of single-sex sport organisations there are still "a large number of competent people of the other gender who would be well qualified to serve on the board". Fianna Fáil TD Robert Troy said the party has an "open mind" on the proposal and wants it discussed at the relevant Oireachtas sports committee. National Women's Council of Ireland (NWCI) director Orla O'Connor welcomed the plan as step towards "gender balance". Irish Independent 
