sport gaa
{  
    May 07 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/the-7-ages-of-the-gaa-26383352.html }
The 70s: 'Hurling needs to get out from under the control of football' Name: Donie Nealon Age: 70 Club: Burgess County: Tipperary Occupation: Originally a primary school teacher in both Dublin and his native Youghalalla and then Munster Council Secretary for 27 years, full-time for half of it until he retired in 2004 Career: Fitzgibbon Cup medal with UCD, five senior All-Irelands, six NHL titles, four Railway Cups and a Texaco Award in 1962. Currently a member of Croke Park's latest Hurling Development Committee and chairman of the National Puc Fada Committee. Still involved in club as a coach and selector. What does the GAA mean to you? Outside of my work, it has been my life and my whole focus and that of my family. As regards our leisure time as a family, there is nothing else but GAA, night and day. My father was a player - he won junior and senior All-Irelands with Tipp - and an adminstrator; my children are all involved and if we didn't have GAA matches to go to every weekend I don't know what we'd do. Being involved with our local club is very fulfilling and enriching and it is how we contribute to our community. People work for their local community through the GAA club. We come from a small rural parish and the GAA club plays a very special and unique role in it. It brings all creeds and classes together in a unifying role. What do you like about the GAA? What I like most about the GAA is the unique and wonderful game of hurling. I kind of regard it as a treasured national possession to be nurtured and protected. It has such a long tradition and it even goes beyond tradition. I used to actually feel it was a great privilege that I was blessed with the talent to play hurling, on so many different levels. Not only did I get to play such a fantastic, skillful sport, but you learned to win and lose - the ups and downs of life. And then there are the many genuine, lasting friendships you make through playing it, even with the press! What do you dislike about the GAA? There's not too much, but one thing I experienced a lot of and that I really dislike is that those who glaringly misbehave on the field of play - often in front of thousands of people and in front of huge live television audiences - will simply not put their hands up and admit they were wrong. Sometimes it's not the players' fault, but there are people within our organisation who will try every trick in the book and explore every loophole available to escape punishment. We have a terrible history in the GAA of such negativity and non-co-operation and I honestly don't know if that will ever change. One thing you would change about the GAA? This may sound very radical, but I don't think the game of hurling will ever expand and develop further unless it gets its own organisation. I've nothing against football, but in no way is it comparable to hurling and I think hurling needs to get out from under the control of football because the two sports do not complement each other in any way. I often wonder how the GAA developed two sports that are so completely different. Playing other sports does not help hurling in any way. It involves a very high level of fine skills that need far greater practice and I feel young lads are dabbling in too many sports. At club and county level you also have problems with organising fixtures etc. More clubs have not thought seriously about why they are a dual club and asked themselves if they should be one or the other? Where do you see the GAA in 20 years time? I honestly couldn't answer that one, but I know some things I'd hope for. I hope and pray the GAA doesn't lose it present place, which is deeply rooted in communities and parishes as the country's pre-eminent sporting organisation. That wouldn't be possible without the huge contributions of thousands of volunteers from underage up to senior level. They give their time, their expertise, their excellence, even their cars. There's hordes of them in every club in Ireland and if that changes, the GAA won't be able to face the new challenges ahead of us. I would also hate to see what has developed in professional soccer, this wholescale transfer of players between clubs. If that ever happens in the GAA, the whole ethos of our organisation would be lost. The way things are happening so fast, that might become a possibility, but I hope it never does. 
