sport gaa
{  
    April 11 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/misreading-the-gaa-decision-26089777.html }
Sir - I am surprised that a paper of the calibre of the Irish Independent  should make such a fundamental error in its leading editorial on the decision taken by the GAA  Congress over the weekend. The proposal put forward by the Roscommon County Board was not to open up Croke Park to rugby, soccer, etc; it was simply to delegate the authority to the Central Council to permit the use of Croke Park for other sports. For those familiar with the management structure of the GAA, the Central Council of the GAA, which is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Association from congress to congress, is the most conservative body within the GAA. For Congress to delegate such authority to the Central Council would, in my view, rule out the possibility of opening up Croke Park to other sports for the foreseeable future. It was Congress that got rid of the 'ban' on foreign games back in 1972. If it had been left to the Central Council to make the decision, the ban would still be there, in my view. For as long as the decision rests with the county boards in the form of Congress, the opening up of Croke Park to other sports remains a strong possibility. If that decision had been delegated to the Central Council, such a possibility would remain extremely doubtful and the decision taken by Congress over the last weekend may not have been as disastrous as many people seem to think. I am not advocating the opening-up of Croke Park to other sports; I am only highlighting the management structure of the GAA and how that structure works. Most people overlook the fact that, unlike the IRFU and the FAI, the GAA is more than just a sports association. It is also a cultural organisation and, indeed, in its earliest years at least, was also politically motivated. More than any other sporting organisation in this country, it helped greatly to heal the wounds of the civil war. It ought to be remembered that rugby and soccer grounds are just not large enough to accommodate the games of hurling and Gaelic football, so there is no possibility of the GAA entering into a reciprocal arrangement with the bodies running these games. There are more politicians than Bertie Ahern who appreciate the huge contribution that the GAA makes week after week, year after year, to the development of the boys and girls and men and women of this country. It has done so since its foundation over a century ago, with little financial help from the State. The GAA creates employment and contributes to the income of the State. Has everyone forgotten that the Government offered, some years ago, to fund the development of Croke Park if the GAA would allow it to be used as a national stadium? That offer was politely turned down, and rightly so. The GAA will make up its own mind in its own good time and, with respect to its critics at this time, should be allowed to do so. Dermot McNulty, Willow Park Ave, Dublin 11 Sir I see bribery is alive and well in Leinster House. I can't think of another term to use to explain the £60 million of taxpayers' money being given to the GAA. I wonder how many people could be taken off housing lists with all that money?Garry Clarke, The Ward, Co Dublin Sir Did anyone else spot the difference in yesterday's paper £2 million for primary schools and £60 million for the GAA? How many of our children will actually benefit from the £60 million plus of taxpayers' money by joining the GAA? Maybe the GAA could coach the primary school principals in the art of persuasion and give them tips on how they managed to get the Government to donate these funds? This is a disgrace. The children are the future and the education system at primary level needs more than a paltry £2 million. Name and address with Editor 
