sport gaa
{  
    June 08 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/its-all-a-load-of-anabolics-26241890.html }
Kevin Kimmage on the myths surounding dope-testing in the GAA championship LAST Monday, the guillotine fell on Francie Grehan's season when the GAA's Games Administration Committee judged him guilty of stamping on Pádraig Joyce during the Connacht championship quarter-final. The referee never spotted the offence, but the television images were damning. Once the GAC announced their intention to investigate, Grehan's fate was sealed. For him to be seen in the primrose and blue again this year, Roscommon will have to chart a remarkable voyage to the All-Ireland semi-final. The odds aren't favourable. For a man whose force of will drove Roscommon to a Connacht title last season, it is a crushing blow. Yet Francie Grehan can comfort himself that, as bad as it is, it could have been much worse. He could have woken up on the morning of the Connacht semi-final with a sniffle; reached into the kitchen cupboard for Lemsip Max-strength, but mistakenly pulled out the Lemsip Flu-strength. He could have popped a couple of tablets just before the game and then afterwards, received a tap on the shoulder from the Irish Sports Council's anti-doping officers as he walked off the pitch. A couple of weeks later, he could have been informed he had transgressed the anti-doping laws. Now that according to just about every manager, player, administrator and journalist who has spoken or written about the subject in recent months would have been serious. In Gaelic games, you can punch your opponent, poke him in the ribs with a hurley butt, stamp on him, and, if you're famous enough, even clip the odd referee across the ear in a club game without any real damage to your reputation. Record an accidental positive test for a stimulant, however, and apparently your football career, job, marriage and standing in the community will be at risk. At least that's what the scare-mongers will have you believe. Last month, when questioned about the issue at the launch of the football championship, Galway manager John O'Mahony joined the ranks. "This (dope testing) would really come to a head if a player should be caught by mistake after taking something for a cold," said O'Mahony. "It would be terrible to see a player branded a cheat because of this. There aren't too many cheats playing Gaelic football as far as I'm concerned." For all the publicity which Francie Grehan's stamping incident provoked, nobody publicly called him a cheat. Yet we had an influential managers predicting that fate for an innocent mistake at doping control. Scary. And wildly inaccurate. Here is how the doping procedure works. When a player provides a sample, the testing officer sends the sealed contents to the testing laboratory in King's College, London. The sample is tested and the findings sent to the Irish Sports Council in Dublin, who duly pass the results on to Croke Park. Should the test prove positive, it is the responsibility of the GAA not the ISC to impose a sanction. A three-person committee, appointed by the GAA with expertise in legal, medical and pharmacological issues, then examines the findings and the player is invited to defend himself. If the player claims the positive findings were the result of accidently ingesting a cold remedy, and the proscribed substances found in his urine confirm his version of events, the GAA's anti-doping code allows the disciplinary committee leeway to caution the offender for a first-time offence. "If somebody takes a cold medicine and the GAA recognises it was a legitimate accident, then I wouldn't expect for one minute that the media are going to brand that player a cheat," says Dr Una May, ISC doping programme manager. "If a player was to receive a year's ban, then the findings in his urine sample would have been more serious." In other words, just like fouling on the football pitch, there are varying degrees of transgressions at doping control. Two weeks ago the Waterford hurlers almost committed one of the worst. In initially refusing to present themselves at doping control in Thurles following their Munster semi-final victory over Cork, Paul Flynn and Brian Flannery risked being deemed to have refused to provide a sample which could have seen them suspended for up to a year. Afterwards, Players' Committee chairman Jarlath Burns warned players of the consequences of taking a similar stance in the future. Yet his has consistently been the sole voice of common sense emanating from the hierarchy within the GAA. Players are genuinely confused about what they can take. Nobody from the GAA has stood up and pointed out that, at the back of the association's anti-doping booklet (which has or should have been distributed to every player in the country) there is a comprehensive list of all medications which players can safely take for minor ailments, such as colds and 'flus. Where strong direction was required from the hierarchy of the GAA, the leaders have been conspicuous in their attempts to find the nearest hole in which to hide. At the championship launch last month, the dope-testing procedures came under a barrage of criticism from two of the most influential figures in Gaelic football the aforementioned O'Mahony and Dublin manager Tommy Lyons. Aside from O'Mahony's comments, Lyons' complaint included the old chestnut about Gaelic games being a special case because amateurs are being subjected to professional procedures and the need to retain the anonymity of players providing samples. Queried afterwards about their concerns, GAA president Seán McCague might have pointed out: 1 The GAA's 'special' status is a self-generated fallacy. There are very few professional sportsmen in this country. Of the 693 tests carried out by the ISC last year over a range of 35 different sports, less than 10% were professional sportsmen or women. 2 It would be impossible for a player to fail an out-of-competition test by taking a recognised cold remedy. Out-of-competition tests check for harder training drugs such as anabolic steroids and human growth hormone. They do not check for stimulants. 3 In no other sport is anonymity an issue. In athletics, the winner is automatically tested; in cycling, the same applies and competitors required for random tests have their race number displayed on a blackboard for all the world to see; in rowing, the names of boat crews required to give samples are called out over the tannoy. "Where anonymity is required, and assured," says Dr May, "is in the handling of the test results." McCague related none of the above information. Instead, he chose to pass the buck. "Since the testing has started again this year," he told journalists, "we have let the Sports Council know in no uncertain terms where we stand on it. If they can't get it right, then they would have no gripe in us pulling out until they do." The enduring complaint has been that the drug-testing issue has been foisted on the GAA at short notice. Another untruth. The association has been working with the concept of drug-testing for over a decade now. In order to receive grants from the Northern Ireland Sports Council, the GAA allowed testing at Ulster championship games in the early and mid '90s long before the association had rules to deal with players who transgressed. Their drafting of the anti-doping code was a lengthy affair, only finalised in October 2000 when passed at Special Congress. Dope testing also began at soccer games this year. Thus far, there hasn't been a whisper of complaint from that code. Perhaps the most striking contrast to the GAA's attitude to the dope-testing issue comes from another of its competitors. Last year, the ISC funded 60 tests to be carried out at rugby matches. The Irish Rugby Football Union wanted more, however, so they paid the ISC to carry out 32 further tests. In rugby, dope-testing is also carried out at club level a development thus far resisted in the GAA and they are now working with the ISC in a bid to introduce tests at schools level. "They are keen to expand this programme because there is a very strong anti-doping ethos within the IRFU," says Dr May. The GAA will point out that rugby is a professional game at the top level, yet the one player caught abusing anabolic steroids over the last two years was competing at club level. Of course, GAA players are too pure of mind to resort to cheating. Aren't they? A few weeks ago, in the course of an RTE investigation into the issue, Marty Morrissey asked pharmacist and Eirpharm.com co-ordinator Brendan Rochford the same question. Rochford revealed he had recently received an enquiry from a Gaelic player who had taken a banned steroid precursor and was wondering how long it would remain detectable in his system. For all the inconvenience it brings, that revelation alone is sufficient justification for testing to continue. 
