sport gaa
{ Graham Clifford 
    September 18 2014 01:21 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/colour-of-money-why-gaa-fans-will-raid-kitty-for-a-jersey-30597408.html }
Come half past three on Sunday, Croke Park will be a sea of green and gold as 82,000 supporters of Kerry and Donegal descend on the Mecca of the GAA for the All-Ireland Senior Football Final - most wearing their coveted county jerseys. As both counties also contest the Minor Final there'll be no pockets of blues (save for Kerry's second jersey), reds or other shades on display. The amazing spectacle will appear to outsiders like a cross between a flamboyant Brazilian carnival and a North Korean rally. Where, years ago, travelling crowds would arrive in their Sunday best with little, or no, county colours attached to their ensemble, now the masses attending our native games have adopted flamboyant behaviour from our soccer cousins. Painted faces, died hair, varnished nails (in county colours) and a seemingly endless array of county tops and jerseys are now par for the course. Of the capacity crowd which will fill Croke Park this Sunday it is estimated that at least three quarters of those will be wearing either a county jersey or some other piece of official GAA gear. Adult-sized inter-county jerseys cost up to €62 and kits for children can set you back as much as €50. Taking a conservative estimate of an average cost of €40 per jersey worn on Sunday (remember some will be from seasons past) and multiplying that by three quarters of Croke Park's attendance (ie 61,500), it's safe to assume that at least €2.5m worth of official GAA merchandise will be on display in the one stadium at the one time. It's an amateur sport with professional fans. Most of the remaining 20,000 or so are likely to wear some form of non-GAA branded replica tops. Its big business and in sports shops across Kerry and Donegal this week those behind the counters have been building up a sweat trying to keep up with demand. "It's been amazing this summer really, even the tourists want to get their hands on one of the Kerry jerseys," says Jean Byrne, manager of Garveys Sport and Leisure in Dingle. "Once Kerry reached the final we placed a big order for hundreds more jerseys, but we're already finding we don't have enough of them in stock - they've been flying off the rails. I think O'Neills are finding it a big physical challenge to get the jerseys out to stores like ours, such has been the demand this year," she added. Interestingly, she tells me that Kerry's pink GAA jersey, aimed at female supporters, has been one of their best sellers but inevitably, as the big day nears, most fans just want to get their hands on the green and gold geansaí - even if Kerry end up playing in their blue Munster strip on Sunday. "We charge €59.95 for the adult Kerry jersey and pay just over €30 to O'Neills for them at cost price", explains Jean. A quick browse through O'Neills website shows the impressive wide range of jerseys available. But again costs are on the high side - even a Kerry 'baby' jersey retails at €30. O'Neills design and make all county jerseys in the country and pay the GAA a percentage of sales as per a supplier agreement - the funds trickling back to county boards thereafter. In April, Clean Clothes Campaign Ireland, a group seeking to improve working conditions in the garment industry, questioned O’Neill’s work practices in Bangladesh. However, the company confirmed this week that “no element of any county shirt is produced outside of Ireland”. O’Neills, which employs 580 staff in Ireland, do source some of their other products in Bangladesh but produced certificates in relation to their factory’s compliance in its organic textile production standards. Workers are paid a fair wage and there is no suggestion of any improper practice taking place. Cormac Farrell, O'Neills business and marketing manager, explains how their county jersey production and distribution dovetails with the height of the GAA championships. "We have a GAA manufacture licence and also supply contract agreements with individual county boards. Like many businesses we have a peak season which is in August and September of each year when the Championships get down to the business-end and finalists are confirmed", he said. "Demand for replica jerseys increases at this time, our factories react and staff work the necessary overtime to meet the customer orders. This year sees added demand following the hurling final draw," he added. Despite the high costs of GAA gear, supporters are determined to get their hands on their own jersey in both rural GAA communities and the capital. Hill 16 turns blue when the home-town boys kick ball in Dublin 3. "It's almost become something people can't do without," explains William Black, marketing manager with Elvery Sports which has over 50 stores nationwide. "It's something GAA fans refuse to cut back on. Even during the recession, sales of county jerseys were strong. It's like going to a game, people don't cut back on that either, they'll do whatever it takes to go wearing their county jersey," he added. So just why are GAA jerseys so expensive? Letterkenny-based sports store owner Brian McCormick told us that the design and quality of the jerseys now are as good as those seen in any other sporting code. "O'Neills have done an amazing job transforming the GAA jersey. They're made in Ireland, securing Irish jobs and the quality of the fabric and stylish design mean people wear them going out and about now," he said. Despite the fact that Donegal lifted Sam just two years ago, for only the second time in their history, the demand for jerseys is still brisk. "The buzz and adrenalin rush two years was something that would be very hard to repeat but still we're selling hundreds of jerseys each week," he explains. So with the price being no object and demand for those crested tops as fierce as ever the likes of O'Neills, and by extension the GAA, seem to be doing rather well out of our national ­obsession. Another big-money spin-off from games played by unpaid amateurs. Indo Review 
