sport gaa
{ Brendan Lawrence 
    February 16 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/sport/farewell-to-a-true-gaa-gentleman-37810290.html }
One word keeps popping up again and again when the conversation sadly turns to the recent passing of former county secretary Michael Murphy, and that word is 'gentleman'.   And what an accurate word it is when used to describe the affable and approachable Cork native who found love and a life in Wicklow town, found a sporting home in the St Patrick's GAA Club and earned the respect of an entire county on which he leaves a lasting legacy thanks to his honesty, his goodness, his kindness, his consideration and his absolute love and adoration of all things GAA.   Wicklow GAA is built on pillars. As an entity it has its detractors and it certainly possesses many weaknesses, but it is built on pillars, strong, sturdy pillars in the form of people who give their lives to the organisation. Peter Keogh was one such pillar. Michael Murphy was another.   Regardless of the request made or the time of the request, you got a reception from Michael Murphy. You were heard. You talked, he listened, and advice was dispensed accordingly.   As part of this job, calls have to be made to the C.C.C. disciplinary committee secretary when individuals are not very well behaved on the GAA fields. For many years the person on the other end of that phone was Michael Murphy. He never once failed to answer or call back if the first call was missed. He never once withheld information, but he answered queries with a touch of class, like as if you were inquiring of a loving father as to a wrongdoing of his beloved child.   I had the pleasure of sitting down with Michael in 2016 when he announced that he was leaving his role of full-time county secretary. It was in his busy little office in Pearse's Park at the time, a place where the very essence of Wicklow GAA could be found.   Our chat was wide ranging. Below is a flavour of that chat as we prepare to bid farewell to a true Wicklow GAA gentleman who is gone far too soon.   Michael Murphy will be missed. That's a given. And it's not said lightly or flippantly.  After 10 years in the role of Wicklow county secretary, and two as county administrator prior to that, the Cork native has retired from his position.  But he will be missed.  Evidence of that fact was presented at the first County Board meeting of 2016 in Aughrim recently, which was preceded by the reconvened County Convention.  Michael Murphy had to attend because aspects of the County Convention had been held over for discussion ahead of the County Board meeting and, as Murphy had been secretary at Convention, he was obliged to attend the reconvened meeting.  Those discussions passed by without much hullabaloo and, with that, Murphy had completed his last official duty, and he bounded off the raised platform where the county officials sit and walked with an air of carelessness down to the seat in the bottom corner; a seat normally reserved for outcast journalists, or lost hikers, or random homeless people seeking shelter on a cold night.  The main County Board meeting then got underway, with new secretary Chris O'Connor assuming the role, and before long a vote was called and when the delegates' hands shot up in the air, the County Chairman Martin Coleman looked around for someone to count the votes.  For a few seconds there was a stunned silence. Confusion reigned. A few mouths opened and shut. And then Martin Coleman spotted Michael Murphy down beside the poor, underpaid, underappreciated journalist in the corner and the Coleman eyebrows were raised.  For anyone who hasn't witnessed the raising of the Coleman eyebrows it is a sight to behold.  It is akin to a thunderclap from the heavens, a lightning strike of authority, a ferocious blast of command.  Up stands Michael Murphy and the vote is counted without much ado and the Wicklow GAA world goes on. Disaster averted.  It mightn't seem like much. Counting a vote. I'm not reducing Michael Murphy's job to something as insignificant as that. Mick Murphy was the man who helped tie things together at county level.  Crossed 't's, dotted 'i's, paid things, checked things, engineered things, dismissed things, helped things, thought about things.  It's probably fair to describe the job of county secretary as being one primarily based around balance, or finding the balance between clubs and officials, between county managers and clubs, between players and officials. The job would need skills in negotiation, in debate, in pacification, in reassurance, in organisation.  Throw your average Joe or Josephine into the job of county secretary and you could well expect the majority of them to run fleeing from the county offices in Arklow while pulling their hair out and frothing from the mouth.  Say what you want about Michael Murphy, but he never ran from anything, never shirked responsibilities.  Michael Murphy was there in good times and bad.   Yes. Michael Murphy will most certainly be missed.'  Our chat turned to how he came to move to Wicklow all the way from Ballincollig in Co. Cork.   'I had no connection whatsoever. I didn't even know how to get to it (Wicklow). I didn't want to leave Cork. In those days it was a question of, I came up on the train to Dublin, I got the train down to Wicklow and you reported to the post office on a Monday and they put you in B&B for two nights and after that you were on your own.  'You found your own place to stay and that was how it worked. I was here about a couple of years and, of course, I had an interest in the GAA and I used to go to matches when they were on and things like that, I was here two, two and a half years, and I had put in for a transfer to go back home and it would have taken time back in those days, it took two and a half years.  'I was going out with my wife (Angela) at the time, she's from Wicklow, and I hummed and hawed at the time. It didn't suit us. It was right in the middle of a school year, didn't suit her, there were no jobs going down there so I said, 'leave the job go, I'll stay', and I'll put in for another transfer.  'Funnily enough the next one came through after about a year but we kind of had, at that stage I was in Wicklow nearly four and a half year and I liked it. That 1976 was the best summer we had in years, we got about three months of sunshine and the banks were on strike as well, so the post offices were busy with everyone coming in lodging their money, so we were flat out. I liked Wicklow and I loved the seaside and I decided that I would stay,' he said.  Talk to anyone who knew Michael Murphy and family was his everything.  I remember that day in Pearse's Park when he spoke so lovingly about his children and how they used to accompany their father to games and meetings. It was abundantly obvious that they were special memories for Michael.   'We had three children, Mark, Rhona and Ian. They all had great interest. I remember when Rhona was 13 or 14, she would come down to Aughrim with me. She'd sell programmes with me, do the gate, she'd come down to Aughrim with me to County Board meetings and do the mics. They were mad into the GAA. Mark the same. They all played.  'I remember Mark starting to play hurling up in St Pat's and he came home and said to me that "that's a mad man's game". And then the following week he came home after training and said, 'Mr Cornyn said I have to get a helmet'.  'He fell in love with hurling, absolutely loved it. He played all the way up to Minor. They won most things.  'It was at a time when we had a good team and they won football and hurling all the way up and that helps to keep young lads going.  'They were in four Minor hurling finals in a row. We lost the last one. Bray won their first one that year. I think it was 2004.'  Our chat that day covered everything from his early days in St Patrick's GAA Club to the completion of Ballinakill and the stand in Aughrim.   I'll leave the last few now poignant words to the late Michael Murphy, a man who will never be forgotten by the Gaels of his adopted county.  'I'm grateful for the time I had here. I really am. There were days when I was effin and blinding but they were far outweighed by the good days.  'I really am delighted that we have Ballinakill up and running and we have Aughrim and, ok, there's always bits to do, there's always more to do, but they were the two major things we needed to do and it's nice to be here from start to finish and to see them completed, but, also, of course, that was done with the help of a lot of people.  'There were a lot of people put a lot of time and effort into Ballinakill and Aughrim, people that do it voluntary. I wouldn't name anyone because I'd be afraid to leave someone out but there were loads of lads, loads of people. Massive time and effort," he said. Farewell, Michael Murphy. It was a pleasure to have known you.                Early Saturday morning last Wicklow GAA lost one of its most dedicated servants of recent times in the death of Michael Murphy, a friend and a colleague.  Over my tem as County Chairman, Michael supported me on a daily basis, contact often made several times a day. Michael completed his duties in an extremely pleasant and courteous manner, always put his GAA duties first when this at times resulted in putting his own life on hold.   As has been said by many over the last few days, the level of respect for him within the county also extended to provincial and national level within the GAA world.  Currently I serve with Michael on several committees including the Leinster Hearings Committee to where he brought his high level of knowledge regarding the rule book of the organisation, he also supported clubs in the county with his knowledge of the rules.  While Michael did not suffer fools lightly, he was always there to help all in his pleasant manner.  Wicklow GAA and his adopted GAA Club, St. Patricks, has lost a valuable and respected member in the passing of Michael but the biggest loss will of course be to his wife and his family.  Michael was number one, above anything else, a family man. He was so proud of his family and I am sure them of him.  He was still very connected to his native county of Cork, devoted to Wicklow GAA and St. Patricks GAA Club and above all a proud family man. On behalf of myself, Anna and our family I extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Angela, and to his children Mark, Rhona, Ian, his daughter-in-law Aileen, his brother-in-law Colm, our colleague, and all his family. Lots of words will be used describing Michael, but for me we have lost a true family man and dedicated GAA man.  Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam dilis.  Andy O'Brien  Early Sunday morning, February 10, we received the sad news that our dear friend and colleague Michael Murphy had passed on. Michael was county secretary from 2004 to 2015. During this time he gave his life to Wicklow G.A.A. and missing out on so many family occasions by doing so.  Michael's family were always in Aughrim to support him on match days. Rhona, Mark and Ian would sell match programmes, do turnstiles or anything that was asked of them by their dad.  When we would sit down for a cuppa during the games, Michael would produce a beautiful apple tart baked by his wife Angela.   He was one of life's great gentlemen, a lovely man inside and out, and no one would ever have a bad word to say about him.  When I served as club secretary in Blessington, He was always so pleasant and courteous to deal with, and it didn't matter what time of the day or night it was, he always made time for you.  When Michael stood down as county secretary, he was so helpful to me as I took the reins in 2016, and he gave me plenty of good advice, and remained doing so up until his passing.  I served with Michael on Leinster Council for the past two years, and he represented Wicklow with such pride and courtesy, other county delegates had so much respect for him, this was very evident at all our meetings. He was fiercely proud of his beloved club St Patricks Wicklow, where he was currently club Secretary, when they won the Senior Football Championship in 2018 he was so proud, particularly when County Chairman Martin Fitzgerald asked him to present the Miley Cup to Dean Healy. I can still see his smile. Michael you have left a massive void in Wicklow G.A.A, and we will all miss you dearly. My deepest sympathy to his wife Angela, his sons Mark and Ian, his daughter Rhona and all his extended family. May he rest in peace. Bray People 
