sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    March 17 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/rte-kick-tv-ball-back-into-croke-park-court-26093620.html }
DESPITE hiring a London-based firm to negotiate on their behalf, the GAA have still to secure a deal for TV coverage of their major games this year. RTE have increased their offer from last year but are still waiting for a reply from the GAA's agents. The negotiating temperature dropped to sub-zero this week when GAA Director-General, Liam Mulvihill, suggested that Irish broadcasters may have struck up an alliance in order to preserve the status quo. Bemoaning the fact that there was no big scramble to win the broadcasting rights to GAA games, Mulvihill appeared to just stop short of claiming that a cosy cartel was in operation. "All the indications are that there is no significant competition for the rights to our games or there is a compliant agreement among the local broadcasters that no one will rock the boat. "This is a far cry from the experience of other sporting organisations here and in other countries and it merits some consideration at a later stage," said Mulvihill. Tim O'Connor, RTE Head of TV Sport, said while it wasn't quite clear what Mulvihill meant by a "compliant agreement," there was absolutely no truth in any suggestion that broadcasters had got together to depress the fee for covering Gaelic Games. "I utterly reject any such suggestion. The truth is that RTE have put in a significantly higher offer to cover Gaelic Games than in previous years so that knocks the "compliant agreement" idea out the window. "We have played by the rules established by the GAA. We were invited to bid, which we did, and now we're waiting for a response," he said. RTE changed its negotiating system this year by hiring outside agents to represent them and by breaking up the broadcasting rights into seven different segments. It was also decided to have a separate deal for radio and TV. Up to this, both were covered by the one agreement. Broadcasters were invited to bid for any of a number of the packages, which represented the various GAA competitions. The GAA, who earned £2.5m from all its media coverage outlets last year, believed that they could not only increase income but could also get a broader spread of coverage by selling some of the rights to stations other than RTE. Privately, the GAA also felt that RTE were getting prize assets at a knockdown price. RTE's response has been to point out that while hurling and football are extremely popular, there is a limited market because of the size of the country. The GAA's disappointment at the lack of local competition is further increased by a lack of movement on the introduction of digital technology by Irish stations. O'Connor said that RTE were very anxious to strike a deal with the GAA but, having increased their offer, there was nothing they could do now only wait for a response. Last year's RTE-GAA deal was secured early in the season indeed there was an announcement of the full season's TV coverage on March 8, 2000. Traditionally, the GAA launched their 'live' TV coverage on St Patrick's Day with the AIB All-Ireland club finals in Croke Park. This year's finals will be played on Easter Monday but, as yet, no deal to cover them is in place. TG4 has covered several club championship games through the winter and spring but RTE are likely to take over for the finals, provided they have struck a deal with the GAA. The GAA are very anxious to sort out the TV package too as it will impact on the timing of games throughout the season. "We had double headers on several Sundays last year and if we're going to have them again, then Provincial Councils need to know, so as to stagger their games," said GAA PRO, Danny Lynch. The wisdom of having double headers has been questioned by Liam Mulvihill, who feels that 3-4 hour TV programmes on Sunday afternoons may be impacting on the clubs schedules. With five minutes added to the half-time break this year, the duration of championship games will be increased to almost 90 minutes. The climate between RTE and the GAA won't be helped either by Mulvihill's comments regarding promotion of Gaelic Games. "Why does RTE not promote the live GAA games in the same way as other major sporting packages are pushed on rival channels," he said. The GAA have felt in recent years that they have been taken for granted by RTE who were in a largely monopoly situation. It now seems that attempts by the GAA to attract other buyers haven't coaxed many takers, leaving them with no option but to deal with RTE. O'Connor said that the fact that RTE had increased their offer to the GAA this year underlines their commitment to Gaelic Games. "They have always been hugely important to us but the ball is in the GAA's court now." 
