sport gaa
{  
    September 15 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27367801.html }
HEART FOUNDATION: Next Sunday, September 19, a walk will take place to mark a healthy heart day. It is taking place one week early, but dont let that put you off. The meeting place is at the Hall at 1.30pm, and the walk will be round the ring, ie up by the ball alley and down to Patss Cross and back to the village. The more adventurous of you may like to do it in reverse HEART FOUNDATION: Next Sunday, September 19, a walk will take place to mark a healthy heart day. It is taking place one week early, but dont let that put you off. The meeting place is at the Hall at 1.30pm, and the walk will be round the ring, ie up by the ball alley and down to Pats’s Cross and back to the village. The more adventurous of you may like to do it in reverse, up that steep hill. Think how healthy your heart would be after that. This walk is organised every year by the Heart Foundation, so get fit before then. OVER 55S CLUB: Once more, the over 55s club is re opening and the date is next Wednesday, September 22 at the usual time of 12.30pm. W have plenty of room for new members and they will be very welcome. As the members know, it is a gathering of people once a fortnight in the Hall, for a hot dinner and plenty of conversation and exchanging news. It is a very pleasant few hours until 4pm, and a bus will collect you and also bring you home in the evening. Please contact Kitty Healy at 44198 and book our seat. We have wonderful helpers on those days, but we could do with more. If you are interested be at the Hall at 10am on the 22nd or as early as you can. You will be welcomed with open arms. DEATH: We extend our deepest sympathy to Mary and Mikey Cahill, Knockane on the death of Marys sister, Josephine Walsh, Asdee. May she rest in peace. CONGRATS: We got 196 marks out of 300 in the Tidy Towns competition. It is thanks to Brosna le Cheile committee, who did trojan work to get work done and get people motivated. And it is thanks to all of you who did so much by keeping the place tidy and putting out your window boxes and hanging baskets. Visitors to the village have been very impressed with the way the village is looking so thank you everyone. THE Brosna/Scartaglin combination made an untimely departure from the county league last Friday evening in Brosna. They needed a victory to progress to the semi-finals but alas it was not to be. As sometimes happens with a combination team you need a few games to gel. We lost our opening game to Desmonds and also our second one to Cordal We turned the corner against Currow and Ballymac. The team were really up for the Knock game. It was played on a misty evening but we got off to a dream start with two goals from Conor Shine in as many minutes. By half time we were leading by seven points. At the third quarter we were leading and when the final whistle sounded we celebrated thinking we had won but unfortunately the referee's recount deemed Knock had won and that was that. Brosna would like to thank Scartaglin for teaming up with them in this competition. However we do have some consolation as the year draws to a close as we defeated Moyvane in the County League final. The Brosna/ Scartaglin combination lined out as follows Eamon Kiely, Thomas Prendiville, Michael Finnegan, Ian Lane, Christopher Casey, Willie Downey, Conor Kiely, Sinead Guiney, Adam Barry, Keith Moroney, Patrick O' Keeffe, Thomas Forde, Denis Lenihan, Declan O'Mahony, William O’Connor, Padraig Herlihy, Sean O’Connor, Conor Cremin, Shane Fitzmaurice, Robert Lee Falls. TIDY TOWNS: Brosna scored the total of 196 marks in the National Tidy Towns' Competition returning a creditable 65%. bit better. AFTER School Club commenced on Monday September 13th at the Community Centre, Ballyheigue. Enrolment will continue for the next couple of weeks and parents are requested to come to the centre to fill the registration form when enrolling their child/children. Flavins bus have agreed to drop the children to the centre where they will be met by staff at a charge of 1 euro per child per day. Parents/Guardians will be expected to collect child from the Centre at 6 pm, or anytime before this if they wish. The programme of activities will vary with indoor games, quizzes, art, craft and storytelling among them. Enquiries and further information by telephoning Kathleen at 066 71 16961 or 087 2109851 FAMILY RESORCE CENTRE: AGM was held last Monday night September 6th September at Ballyheigue Community Centre. Elected Officers were Joint Chairpersons Cath Pearson O’Dwyer and Kathleen Jacob, Treasurers Alice Lawlor and Alan O’Dwyer and Secretary Margaret Flaherty COURSING: Lotto - There was no jackpot winner. The numbers drawn were 6, 11, 16, 22. ?50 each to Bill Barrett, Chapel Rd and Tom O’Sullivan, c/o White Sands. ?25 each to Paula O’Sullivan, Glenlea and Seanie O’Leary, c/o White Sands. Next jackpot will be ?7100 at Regans Bar.  COMPUTER CLASSES: The Back to Education computer Class (BTEI) commenced on  Tuesday 14th September 10 to 12 a.m. There are some places available on this  course. Eligible applicants must be in receipt of social Welfare Benefit. Places can be booked by telephoning Kathleen at 066 169 61 or 087 210 9851. The Monday night computer Class will commence on Monday 20th September at 7.30 pm  Raffle for Hamper on Pattern Day in aid of Cois Farraige After School Club. The winner was Micheal Hehir Ballylongane, Ballyheigue. Congratulations Micheal . The raffle brought in much needed funds for this worthy cause, ?306.00 and your support is much appreciated. Many thanks to sponsors of prizes for the Hamper- Seashell, Moriartys Londis, Horans Health foods,  Leahys Pharmacy and Ch Chemists.  Irish Class through song and storytelling. This course is being offered to the Active Retirement group but is open to anyone who has an interest in Irish. It will commence on Tuesday September 21st September at 10 a.m.  Details from Kathleen at Family Resource Centre 066 71 16961  GAA LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Saturday nights GAA lotto. 1, 2, 3, 10. Jackpot of ?2,250 was not won. Next weeks jackpot will be ?2,300. The two ?50 winners were Damien Casey, Cliff Rd, John Lucid, Mountway. The ?25 winner was P J James, Marian Park. MUSIC AND DANCING CLASSES: A meeting of Ballyheigue CCE will be held in the Community Centre at 8.30pm on Friday, Sept 17, to discuss arrangements for classes in 2004/05. All those interested welcome to attend. OICHE LE CHEILE: Churchill GAA in conjunction with Naomh Fionbarra Cabra Dublin are organising a fund-raising night at Fionbarra Clubhouse, Cabra on the Saturday night of the All Ireland, September 25. The Oiche Le Cheile will consist of refreshments, chat, music, special guests, and an address by the President of the CLG Sean Kelly. Tickets for the main fund-raising event at 8.30 are ?30 for supporters, but afterwards all Churchill, Kerry and GAA supporters are welcome. This co operation between both clubs began 10 years ago, when Fionbarra Club first visited Kerry. Since then several exchange visits of senior and juveniles have taken place. As well as a fund-raising function for Churchill development the oiche le cheile will be a very special social event and all GAA supporters are welcome. KERRY HOSPICE FOUNDATION: There will be a hospice coffee evening on Thursday, Sept 16, at the White Sands Hotel from 9pm onwards. Come along and enjoy coffee/biscuits, and raffle of prizes. GAA: The Ballyheigue u15 hurlers defeated Lixnaw in the N Kerry c’ship on Saturday. Full time score Ballyheigue 5-6, Lixnaw 1-4. Team and scorers, were R O’Mahony, D Casey, A Lucid, B Horgan, S Casey, S Hanlon, F Gentleman, S Colgan, S Lawlor 0-1, J Sheppard, R Kenny 0-3, K Reidy 4-1, C O’Mahony 1-0. Subs L Hussey 0-1, C James, D Lucid, K Gaynor P Regan, G Hanlon. The u21 hurlers received a walk over from Crotta in the q final of the Co c’ship. FIXTURE: N Kerry u15, Ballyheigue v Abbeydorney at Ballyheigue, Saturday evening, 4.30. TICKETS: Any members interested in All Ireland football tickets can contact the Chairman or Secretary of the club. THE annual day of prayer for the Bally parish, will take place at The Ardfert Retreat House on Sunday, October 14, from 10am to 5pm. Contribution is ?25 and it includes morning tea and lunch. Travel arrangements will be made for anybody who needs transport. For further info, contact Maureen Griffin. DEATH: The tragic and sudden death of Mrs Nuala O’Brien, Aughrim, Co Wicklow, took place last week. Deceased, who was in her 60s, and formerly, Nuala McCarthy of Upper Main St, was a member of a very well known and very popular local family. Nuala, who was buried in Co Wicklow, is survived by her husband Conor, sons Nial and Aidan, brothers Donal, John and Brian, and sister Eileen. To them and to all her other relatives, sincere sympathy is extended. GAA NOTES: An important meeting of the club will take place at 9pm on Tuesday night next, Sept 21. Main item on the agenda will be the distribution of All Ireland tickets. The weekly lotto draw for w/e September 5 was held at O’Connors Bar and there was no winner of the ?7,825 jackpot. Numbers drawn were 2, 13, 20, 22, and the 4 x ?25 lucky dips, were Nellie Mulvihill, Clounamon, David Fennell, Lenamore, Colleen McElligott, Bridge St and Michael Mulvihill, Ballybunion. The bar prize, sponsored by Jerry O’Connor was won by Billy Enright, Ballymackessy. Last week ends draw was at O’Carrolls Bar, and again there was no winner of the jackpot, which was ?7,900. Numbers 3, 4, 17, 20, and the lucky dips were Stephen Mulvihill, Centra, Peter O’Sullivan, Lislaughtin, Jerry Brosnan, Moyvane and Helen Fitzell, Rusheen. The bar prize sponsored by Michael O’Carroll was won by Joan Dee, Ahanagran. Next week ends draw will be at The Rovers Return and the jackpot will be ?8,000. FESTIVAL: The annual oyster festival takes place this coming week end from Friday Sept 17 to Sunday, Sept 19. There is sure to be great fun and craic in the pubs each night. DEATH: The death took place last week of Mrs Lilian Fitzell, Glenculare. Deceased, who was in her 90s, was a quiet and gentle person, and a real lady all her life. She is survived by her sons Alan and Louis and daughter Hazel, and to them and to all her other relatives, sincere sympathy is extended. OUR Senior team remain at 7 points in Division 2 of the County League following the loss to Spa on Saturday evening last. It was a disappointing result for us, as we appear to be so near and yet so far from being safe in Division 2. The final game in the competition is against Gneeveguilla, which will be of vital importance to us. The date for this game is not yet known. 2ND ANNUAL GOLF CLASSIC: Ballymac GAA is running its Golf Classic on Friday 17th September in Killorglin. The Golf Classic is sponsored by Finnegan's Restaurant and Hostel Tralee. It's a three-ball stableford. Team entry fee: ?230.00 and Tee Sponsorship ?130 euro. This is the Clubs main fundraiser this year and all your support would be greatly appreciated. WIN 2 ALL IRELAND TICKETS: Ballymac GAA is raffling two All Ireland Final stand tickets for the All Ireland Final. The raffle tickets cost just one euro each and are available from Club members. The draw for the Two Stand tickets will take place on Thursday 23rd September at the Club rooms at 7.00pm. SCOR.The Club is participating in Scor na nog and senior Scor this year. All musicians, dancers and singers are training once weekly at the Ballymac GAA Clubrooms. Anyone interested is welcome to join us on Thursday evenings at 6.00pm. U14 TEAM: Congratulations to Niall O'Shea from Kielduff that was a member of the North Kerry Under 14 team that won the Power Blitz in Waterford two weeks ago. North Kerry defeated South Kerry in the final. UNDER 12 TEAM: Our final Under 12 game in the Castleisland District was a very evenly contested affair between Ballymac and Churchill. The game was played in Ballymac on the 8th September with Currow referee Tony Brosnan in charge. Playing with great determination and with wind advantage Ballymac were good value for the half time lead of 1-05 to 102 for Churchill. However, in the second half Churchill, with the wind advantage, dominated and eventually won on a final score line of Churchill 1-10 to Ballymac 1-07. The semi-finals of this competition take place in our own Club grounds in Ballymac next Sunday evening the 19th September: At 5.00pm Cordal play Desmonds and at 6.00pm Churchill play Currow. Our U12s have now completed both the County League and Castleisland District competitions; the month of September is devoted to the Coiste Tr LÌ U12 Competition. This campaign started on Friday night last 10th September when our U12s travelled to Ardfert for a 6.30pm throw in. The captain for the Coiste Tr LÌ District competition is Shane O'Reilly. The referee for the game was Michael Walsh from Na Gaeil. With the aid of a very strong breeze Ballymac lead by 2-01 to 1-01 at half time. With the breeze gaining momentum the second half saw the Ardfert team take charge and eventually winning out. The final score was: Ardfert 5-07 to Ballymac 4-03. The strong breeze was a major factor on the night. On another day the final result would be much closer. Our next game at U12 is a s follows: Friday 17th September Ballymac V Na Gaeil at Home at 6.30pm. COISTE OILEAIN CHIARRAI UNDER 10 TOURNAMENT takes place on Saturday next the 18th September in Scartaglin. Kingdom Fast Hire sponsors the Tournament. The following Clubs are taking part: Ballymac, Currow, Brosna, Desmonds, Knocknagoshel, Scartaglin and Cordal. BALLYMAC U10s are in action in the first game, which is scheduled for Scartaglin at 11.00am when they take on Churchill. The winners and losers progress to have second games and there is an A Final and a B final scheduled for 1.45pm. We wish our Under 10 team and their mentors Tom Herlihy and Johnny Leen every success in the Tournament. The U10 team has trained very hard all year and have played a lot of challenge games. Good Luck to you all! BALLYMAC GAA LOTTO There was no winner of last Saturday nights jackpot. The numbers drawn at Glenduff House were: 3, 10, 15 and 22. There was no winner: The lucky dip winners of ?30.00 each were: Tommy Horan, Carhue, Sean O'Connor c/o Half Way, Liam Sugrue, Castlemaine, Catriona Somers, Lyre, Eileen Sugrue, Kielduff. Sellers Prize: Maurice O'Reilly. Next weeks jackpot is ?2,350 and the draw will take place at The Half Way Bar, on Saturday 18th September 2004. ALL IRELAND FINAL TICKETS: It is expected that the demand for All Ireland Final tickets will exceed the amount of tickets each club will get. Ballymac GAA will hold a draw to distribute tickets. The draw will take place on Thursday 23rd September in our Clubrooms at 9.00pm. The draw is strictly confined to Club members and all club members that wish to be included in the draw are asked to contact Club Secretary, Maureen O'Shea prior to 20th September. The Official opening of Camp Community Field, Sports Centre and Childcare Centre will take place on Sunday next at 12 noon. Camp Community Council invite you all to come and see the wonderful facilities available. Refreshments will be served. CAMP FAIR: Camp Sheep Fair will be held on Monday next, 20th. September. The fair is the oldest surviving fair of its kind in Munster where sheep are sold in pens by the roadside. In order to encourage farmers to bring sheep to the fair, there will be money prizes for pens of sheep for sale, sponsored by Ashes Bar. In the afternoon, the Sheep Show in Dalys yard, is always one of the highlights of the day, with best quality sheep on show. Categories as follows - Ram Lamb/Ewe Lamb,Yearling, Cheviot Ram, Aged Ewe, Hogget Ewe, Overall Champion. The staple diet of the day is the traditional mutton pie and you can enjoy a pie in the Old School courtesy of Camp ICA. All proceeds raised on the day go towards the Kerry Hospice Association. Dinners will be served at Ashes Bar all day, and meals are also available at O Dwyers Londis, and the day would not be complete without sampling Mary Fitzgerald's pies at the Junction. A Fancy Dress for the children will be held in the Old School at 5.00 p.m. the Fair evening. GUESS THE WEIGHT: Breda Quirke will be asking you to guess the weight of her sheep "Dolly" on Camp Fair Day. Breda intends to raise funds for Crumlin Hospital for Sick Children. Watch out for Dolly who will have her own special pen, and support this worthy cause. CULCHIE FINALS: Michael Tagney from The Gap of Dunloe and Moss Aherne, Duagh go forward to represent South and North Kerry at the Kerry Culchie finals to be held in Lisselton in the next few weeks. 695 Euro was raised at the Junction Bar on Saturday night for the Kerry Hospice. Well done to Moss and Joan Trant who organised the event. CAMP JUNCTION VINTAGE RALLY: Due to inclement weather, Camp Junction Vintage Rally was cancelled last Sunday and is rescheduled to take place next Sunday at 2.00 p.m. Activities include a demonstration of traditional farm skills, steam threshing, butter making, copper smith, harness making, sheep shearing etc. There will be a huge display of tractors, cars, machinery and old engines. A tug-of-war and sheaf throwing will also be held and there will of course be plenty of ceol agus rince in the pubs. A great day out for all the family is guaranteed. GAA: Annascaul Play Castleisland Desmonds in the Intermediate championships in Castleisland on Sunday next September 19th. THE following are the Kerry winners from Fleadh Cheoil na hEireann which was held in Clonmel last weekend. 1, Concertina U12 - Amy Stone, Lixnaw CCE; 1, Comhra U9 - Breandáin Caball, Tralee; 1, Concertina 12 to 15 - Ann Marie Fitzgerald, Knocknagoshel CCE; 1, Mouth Organ 15 to 18 - Edward Looney, Killorglin CCE; 1, Bingo O18 - Ashling Neville, Listowel CCE; 1, Sets U12 mixed - Kilcummin CCE; 1, Sets senior ladies - Gleneagle, Killarney; 1, Sets senior mixed - Gleneagle, Killarney; 2, Sets U12 mixed - B O’Donoghue, Lisselton; 2, Sets snr ladies - Glenflesk; 2, senior accordion - Michael Collins, Ballylongford/ Tarbert; 2, senior concertina - Alan Egan, Listowel; 2, whistling 12 to 15, Denis Moynihan, Glenflesk; 2, english singing 12 to 15 - Lorraine Doyle, Glenflesk; 2, flute 15 to 18 - Edward Looney, Killorglin; 2, Amhráin nua leapha - Niall Brosnan, Listowel; 2, fiddle slow airs 12-15 - James Duggan, Listowel; 3, mixed sets snr - Glenflesk; 3, english singing U12 - Ashling O’Hanlon, Lixnaw; 3, whistle 15-18 - Edward Looney, Killorglin; 3, whistle slow airs U12 - Kieran Flavin, Moyvane, Knockanure; 3, English 15-18 - Tara Mulvihill, Moyvane, Knockanure. CASTLE GRAND: Last week’s draw was held at Tigh Tomsai’s. The winning numbers were 7, 13, 17 and 23. There was no winner of the jackpot of ?2,325.00. Mary Ferriter, c/o Ferriter’s Bar, M Bland, c/o Tigh Tomsai’s,Little Rascals, c/o Ferriter’s Anne O’Donnell, c/o Gay Keane,Joe O’Sullivan, c/o Eddie Hanafin. The next draw will be held on Friday, September 17, at Ferriter’s Bar. The new jackpot will be ?2,400.00. KERRY HOSPICE ASSOC: Will be hosting a Coffee Morning on Thursday, September 16th beginning at 10a.m. at the Club Rooms. Stop by for some refreshments and help support this worthy cause. TABLE QUIZ: A table quiz will be held on Thursday, Sept. 16 at Boland’s Bar, beginning at 9p.m. SHARP! Proceeds will benefit Castlegregory Care of the Aged and a table of four will cost 20 Euro. Plan on attending and having a fun night. TIN WHISTLE CLASSES: A ten-week course on the tin whistle is beginning on Friday, September 24 in the Club Rooms. Course is conducted by John Ryan, Dingle and you can contact him at 086-1773119 for further details. AEROBICS CLASSES will commence in the Community Hall, West Main St., on Thursday, September 16, at 7pm. Classes will run for 10 weeks and the cost is 60 Euro. BINGO: Bingo in the Clubrooms every Tuesday night @ 8pm SHARP in aid of Church Renovation Fund. All welcome. Doors open at 7:30pm. CARE OF THE AGED: Our annual tour will take place on Tuesday, October 5th. Cost 25 Euro. If you are interested in coming along, please leave your name at the Information Centre or call them at 71-39422. If there are any notes you would like included in the Castlegregory notes, please call in to The Visitor Information Centre. We can also be contacted at 7139422 by telephone or fax, or e-mail castleinfo@hotmail.com. Notes must be in by 12pm on Mondays. GAA: Seniors will play Firies at a Killarney venue this Sunday, with a throw in time at 3pm. GAA club will hold the draw for two monthly ticket fundraiser at Tadg Ogs Bar on Saturday, Sept 18 at 6pm. The draw will also take place for the all Ireland tickets. W Kerry u16s will play in the Co c’ship this Wednesday at Castlegregory with a throw in time of 6.15pm. Castlegregory/Annascaul u12s team great run came to an end when they were unlucky to lose to Legion in the semi final of the Co league. Teams C Browne, S Scanlon, J Hoare, K Walsh, N Flynn, D Dowd, M Hennessy, E Flynn, K Spillane, A Maunsell, C Fitzgerald, E Hoare, S Finn, S Flynn, H Finn. Subs J Cronin, S Grady. Well done to trainers Brendan Hoare, Una Nicks, D Finn and Jim Fitzgerald, who trianed and oversaw the team throughout the year. GAA: Any member wishing to enter the draw for All Ireland football final tickets, should have their name with the Secretary 0667131440/0872684677 by 9pm on this Sunday, September 19. The draw will take place at the Clubrooms on Tuesday night, September 21 at 8.30. Members who enter the draw should be present, as ticket will have to be collected and paid for on the night. Stand ?60, terrace ?30. As the seniors have reached the Co final for the first time in six years, it would be great if all our supporters displayed the colours and decorated all the roads and streets with the maroon and white. While we do this, let us be mindful and respectful of other clubs right to do the same to their roads and houses. GAA LOTTO: There was no winner of the lotto jackpot of ?14,100. The following won cash prizes of ?50 each, John Reidy, Ballyheigue, Elizabeth Flaherty, Baltovin, Shane Sheehan, Causeway. DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to the families of the following who died recently. Bridie Maunsell, nee Quille, Lerrig, Sonny Boyle, Ballinglanna, Matt O’Leary, Ardagh. DANCING CLASSES: Set and ceili dancing for under age children has re commenced at the Causeway Inn on Saturdays. Beginners 2pm, teacher, John Stack. All welcome. CARD DRIVE: The results of the 41 card drive, held at Hartys on Friday, Sept 10, winners Jerry Foley, Marian Harty. Runners up, Peggy Godley, Gerald Lawlor, Mikie Heaphy. Sunday, Sept 12, winners, James Neilan, Ann Walsh. Runner sup Tom O’Connor, Peggy O’Carroll. Next drive Friday and Sunday. OICHE LE CHEILE: Churchill GAA in conjunction with Naomh Fionbarra Cabra Dublin are organising a fund-raising night at Fionbarra Clubhouse, Cabra on the Saturday night of the All Ireland, September 25. The Oiche Le Cheile will consist of refreshments, chat, music, special guests, and an address by the President of the CLG Sean Kelly. Tickets for the main fund-raising event at 8.30 are ?30 for supporters, but afterwards all Churchill, Kerry and GAA supporters are welcome. This co operation between both clubs began 10 years ago, when Fionbarra Club first visited Kerry. Since then several exchange visits of senior and juveniles have taken place. As well as a fund-raising function for Churchill development the oiche le cheile will be a very special social event and all GAA supporters are welcome. 41 DRIVES: Result of last weeks 41 drive at The Tankard were Anne O’Connor, and Catherine Nolan, Nellie Carmody and Brendie McCarthy, Maura Healy and Joe Locke. Cards, as usual 9.30pm next week. SYMPATHY: Is extended to the families and relatives of the following people who died recently. Fr Edmond O’Riordan, our former Parish Priest, who died in Fatima Home, John Browne, formerly of Talaught, who died in Oxford, England. CONGRATULATIONS: To Tara O’Callaghan, Ardfert and formerly of Chapeltown, Fenit and William Forristal, Kilkenny, who got married in Ardfert Church. ST BRENDAN: Dont forget to come along to Fenit this Sunday, for the unveiling of the statue to St Brendan. Particulars of event elsewhere in this paper. Beidh failte roimh chach. GAA CLUB LOTTERY: Will be held in The Tankard Bar, Kilfenora this Friday night, with a jackpot of ?3,950. Congrats to Cork hurling team, on their great All Ireland victory over Kilkenny. CHURCH GATE COLLECTION: Thanks to all who contributed to the Church gate collection last Sunday, in aid of the Kerry senior football training fund. RUSSIAN TRAGEDY: The 4th class of Spa NS will be holding a fund raising event in the Oyster Barn, Spa this Saturday evening. Your support for this worthy cause in aid of the children, killed in Boslam will be greatly appreciated. SPA/FENIT/BARROW COMM GAMES: A general meeting will be held in the Community Centre, Spa this Wednesday night, Sept 22 at 9pm. Please come along. KERRY V MAYO: Enquiries re tickets for the All Ireland final are to be made to any of the club officers asap. In connection with the final, the Churchill club will be holding a social event at St Finbarrs Club, Cabra on the Saturday night. Enquiries to the any of the club officers. STATUE:The St. Brendan Statue was hoisted onto its permanent base last week. It is located at the highest point on Fenit Pier and commands a panoramic view of Tralee Bay and surrounding hills. Despite a fresh easterly wind the operation went smoothly. Advanced preparations were thorough , and the two ton bronze statue was lifted by the local Harbour crane in the capable hands of Declan O'Hara who was guided by Vincent Locke. The fabricator of the statue, Cast Bronze Foundry, Dublin, was represented by Colm O Braonain, who travelled specially for the event. This was one of the biggest projects carried out by the firm which also carries out work for the OPW and other State Bodies. Tighe O'Donoghue, the Sculptor, Cormac O'Donoghue B.E. Tom Farley,Stone Mason, who faced the base and Jimmy Browne,who did the steel and masonry along with Fr. Gearoid all lent a helping hand to secure the monument. It was well tested by galwe force winds at the week-end. Next Sunday Bishop Bill Murphy will perform the unveilling of the statue at 3.00pm, and a big crowd is expected. Visitors are advised to come early, as traffic and crowd control will be in force. Fenit Pier is a working harbour and visitors are asked to be careful whilst on the Pier, especially when climbing the path to the statue. Local volunteers are required to steward the programme, and they should contact any committee member before the week-end. Other peripheral activities taking place that evening are a sail past by the local sailing club and a book launch of "St Brendan of Kerry, the Navigator, His Life and Voyages by Gearoid O Donnchadha. Later in the evening at 5.30 pm ,Micheal O Suilleabhain will give a talk on St. Brendan at the local Sailing Club. DEATH: Deepest sympathy is extended to the O’Connor family on the death of Mrs Catherine O’Connor (nee Curtin), Killeentierna, Currow. May she Rest in Peace. FARRANFORE GS: Last call for members intending to go on the away trip in October. We play Muskerry Golf Course on Friday, October 8. Stay overnight in the Blarney Park Hotel before playing Blarney Golf Course on Saturday, October 9. If you are going you must contact the committee immediately as numbers are needed for booking tee times and hotel accommodation. SAMARITANS: The Samaritans are presently recruiting volunteers for the Kerry Branch. Anyone interested please phone the Samaritan Centre on (066) 7122566. An information evening will be held in the Samaritan Centre, 43/44 Moyderwell, Tralee on Wednesday, September 22, at 8pm and a recruitment evening will be held in the Samaritan Centre on Wednesday, September 29, at 7.30pm. ICA: September meeting on this Thursday night at 8.30pm. Membership fees for 2004-2005 will be collected at meeting. WEDDING BELLS: Congratulations to Brigid Daly, Kilfalney and John Connolly, Graignamanagh who got married recently. BLOOD DONOR: The Irish Blood Transfusion Service will be holding a Blood Donor Clinic in the Community Centre, Castleisland on Wednesday and Thursday, September 15/16, from 6pm to 9pm each day. Three out of four people will need blood or a blood product, it could be you, or a member of your family, a neighbour or friend. Only three per cent of the population donate blood, yet 3,000 units of blood are required every week. 3.84 million people are dependant on three per cent of the population’s generosity. This is not enough, if you are aged between 18 and 65 years and in good health, please share this responsibility and give blood. SCHOOL OF CULINARY MEDICINE: Ten week cookery course on foods that actively help your body-boost immunity, fight the effects of pollution, inhibit serious illness and reduce risk of heart disease etc. Phone (066) 7115960. BASKETBALL: Congratulations to the girls from Scoil Mhuire agus Naomh Treasa on winning gold medals in the All-Ireland sports finals of the Pioneer Association in Derry last weekend. Well done to Louse O’Connor, Aoife Daly, Bridget O’Shea, Ellen O’Shea, Laura Enright, Marie Keane and Maura Conroy who were victorious over Kilmurray, Co Mayo in the final with a score of 21 points to 11. CONGRATULATIONS and best wishes to Caroline Kearney on being crowned Rose of Con recently. Caroline is daughter of Madeline and Timmy Kearney of Cordal West. SERVICE: Local transport is the answer to many peoples travel problems. Booking of buses and time table available by phoning (066) 7147231. Free transport applicable. REFURBISHMENT: Cordal Community Resource Centre and Sports will be closed from September 13 to 27, for major refurbishments. DUTIES: Eucharistic Ministers for Sunday, September 19, are Marion Prendiville and John Flaherty. Altar servers - Sharon Walsh, Marina McGaley, Eimear Brosnan, Brighid Ide Walsh. COLLECTION: Disable Drivers Association Annual Church Gate Collection is on Saturday and Sunday, September 18 and 19. Collectors needed. Contact Delia on (066) 7141612. 
