sport gaa
{  
    April 11 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/time-right-to-open-croke-parks-doors-26119897.html }
AMID all the gripe, tripe and hype spawned by the  Football Development Committee's proposals to Congress, one very significant motion has sat... AMID all the gripe, tripe and hype spawned by the Football Development Committee's proposals to Congress, one very significant motion has sat quietly on the agenda, waiting its chance to cause tremors in the Galway's Corrib Great Southern Hotel next Saturday afternoon. If passed, it will effectively end the ban on playing soccer and rugby at GAA grounds. Revolutionary or what? The motion is languishing down near the bottom of page 106 of the GAA's annual report and takes up just two lines. ``Central Council shall be allowed to set aside aspects of Rule 42 in certain circumstances.'' It is sponsored by Laois club, Shanahoe. Rule 42 covers the use of GAA property and forbids the renting of grounds to any group which is deemed to be ``in conflict with the aims and objects of the Association.'' Horse racing and greyhound racing are the only two sports specifically banned by the rule book but, for practical purposes, soccer and rugby are also included. The GAA argues and with a degree of validity that both sports are in conflict with them because they are fishing in the same talent net all over the country. Of course, there's more to it than that. Soccer and rugby still have foreign nametags as far as many GAA members are concerned and should not be accommodated in any way. The problem with the GAA's blanket ban is that even in the most sensitive of situations, there can be no let-up. Thus, when the question of playing a soccer match at Healy Park in aid of the Omagh fund was mooted, the GAA were tied by a rule which could only be changed by Congress. This led to a deluge of criticism cascading down on top of the GAA. Much of it was deeply mischievous and downright unfair since the GAA later contributed £750,000 to the fund. Laois now want to change the use of property rule so that, in special circumstance, 
a la the Omagh fund, Central Council could opt to make a ground available. However, if the rule is amended, it will allow Central Council to decide on how all GAA property is used. Interesting. Now let's take a little ramble down Reality Street, which will link the GAA to the big banks when Croke Park is fully re-developed. The GAA have worked financial wonders to arrive at this stage of the re-development without incurring serious debt. The overdraft days are ahead, however. WHEN the stadium is finished and the sums are added up, the GAA accounts will face several red months, probably even years. The spanking 80,000-capacity stadium will be a credit to all concerned. The trouble is that it will lie in splendid idleness for almost six months between the end of September and St Patrick's Day. Apart from the cost of maintaining a massive stadium, even when it's not in use, will it make economic sense to have Croke Park closed for half the year when there's rent money to be picked up? Yes, but the FAI are on a head down march towards Eircom Park and the IRFU are sheepishly hanging on in the battered wreck which is Lansdowne Road as they await the move out to Stadium Ireland. What if the GAA warmly embrace the Laois motion next Saturday and then let it be known through the relevant channels that they might be prepared to rent Croke Park for rugby games? The GAA has no ideological problems with the IRFU, which operates on a 32-county basis. Wouldn't it throw a real spanner into the Government's plans for the new National Stadium if the GAA decided that they could do business with other sports after all? For a fee, of course. And a pretty big one too. How could the Government justify spending £280 million on a national stadium if the GAA made concessions on the use of Croke Park? The Laois motion opens all sorts of interesting doors. Most of all, it brings a dose of reality to the debate on the use of GAA property. The GAA is well entitled to use its resources as it sees fit but can anybody explain the logic of building an 80,000 capacity ultra-modern stadium and leaving it empty for six months? Why not rent it to the IRFU for their international programme in the October-March period and use the money to further promote Gaelic Games? It's so simple and blindingly obvious. Which is why the dinosaur brigade who regard progress as a disease must be politely locked away in their caves when they start prattling on about ``other codes'' on Saturday. The Laois motion opens the door to a fortune for the GAA. But they must act now. It could be too late in even a year's time. AND now for a reading from the gospel according to team managers whose sides don't reach the knock-out stages of the Church & General National Leagues. ``Brethren, it matters little to us as we are busily preparing for the call from a nobler God. In pursuit of a higher prize, available only in Summer, we sacrificed the humble offerings which Spring provides. Be patient with us, for we know exactly what we do.'' Really? If the National Leagues are so irrelevant how come the top counties still win most of them? And how many of the middle-order teams who claim that ``our main aim is the championship'' never actually do anything in the Summer, other than produce the same type of anaemic performances which saw them fail in the League? Downgrading the League has become the norm among many team managers and indeed players when, in fact, they are simply looking for an escape chute. Last year, for instance, Kildare and Derry were almost winking with indifference after awful performances in the League quarter-finals. ``It will be different in the championship,'' they announced knowingly. It wasn't. Kildare were even flatter against Offaly in the championship and Derry found Armagh, who had a good League run, a fence too high in Ulster. It would be a disastrously bad decision by the GAA to scrap the League because its status is being diminished by managers and players looking for excuses. Besides, look at the joy in Roscommon this week as they sailed into the semi-final for the first time since 1991 and the desolation in Sligo after just missing out. Try telling either county that the League is irrelevant. 
