sport gaa
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    November 08 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/trying-to-have-a-level-playing-field-for-all-26131312.html }
THE proposals being announced officially tonight for changes in the way the GAA runs the National Football League and the All-Ireland and provincial football championships are the most revolutionary ever put before the organisation. There was a time not so long ago when that very fact would mean the immediate kiss-of-death for such proposals as for decades the GAA as an organisation was most reluctant, and often afraid, to change. But that state of mind has been transformed in the past 20 years or so as the GAA, and the people who are charged with running it at national, provincial and county level, have shown themselves in the main to be progressive and no longer afraid of tampering with tradition if it is considered to be for the overall good of the organisation. One has only to think back to the removal of the infamous Ban, Rule 27 in 1971 which for over 50 years had been regarded as a very cornerstone of GAA philosophy. In the past decade we have seen the name of a sponsor attached to the two most famous trophies in Irish sport, the Sam Maguire and Liam McCarthy cups. Yet I can recall several GAA presidents assuring Congress delegates that no purveyor of alcoholic drinks would ever be associated with GAA games. The most recent example of how the GAA has escaped from the shackles of tradition is the back door system in hurling which would have seemed totally out of the question a mere ten years ago. Yet it was brought in, is a tremendous success and is clearly here to stay. In the light of dramatic about-turns such as these one could be optimistic that however radical the football proposals are they still have a sporting chance of being adopted by the GAA. But seasoned as I am in the ways of the GAA at officer level, I certainly would not make any predictions on that score. And here I must declare an interest since I am a member of the Football Development Committee. Some people will undoubtedly ask why do we need any proposals for a revamp of the present inter-county competitive structures. What is wrong with the present system they will ask. Hasn't it served the GAA very well for over 100 years and what guarantee is there that any different system will be even as good, let alone better, than what we now have? SUCH a line of reasoning is the stock-and-trade of the conservative mind. Because nobody, not even GAA officials, can foretell the future, it is a safe argument to make. But any fair-minded official, player or follower will admit, if they are honest, that inter-county structures have become somewhat outdated in several respects and could do with some alterations. The national league, for instance, is clearly struggling. The very make-up of the competition whereby half the games are played in October-November followed by a three month gap before the second half are played means that the league never builds up any impetus. Just when everybody is getting interested after three early games the show grinds to a halt and by the time it resumes in February or March most ordinary fans have forgotten what happened in the first half of the league. Then there is the straight knock-out way of running the provincial and All-Ireland championships. Undoubtedly this has major attractions provided you are a strong football county that can be assured of winning several matches over a period of four or five years. But if you are a less successful county which can go five, six or seven years without winning even one championship game then the knock-out system does very little for you. In recent years it has also dawned on many of the so-called successful counties that training for six months for possibly just one game in the championship does not make a whole lot of sense either. And sports fans, including GAA ones, know well that there is hardly a major football competition anywhere in the world, soccer, rugby, American or Australian in which the main competition is decided only by the knock-out system. The Football Development Committee looked at many variations and adaptations on the present system but at the end of the day they opted for a completely new system which will guarantee every county from the strongest to the weakest a proper calendar of competitive games. It will also retain the essential elements of the present provincial championships which nobody in their right minds would want to get rid of. Having been fortunate at one time to be involved with Offaly in five successive Leinster football finals I personally would not even consider removing such brilliant occasions from the GAA calendar. The new proposals would give the GAA a clearly defined inter-county season running from March to September. The main reason for this is that county boards can organise a proper club fixture list around these definite county fixtures. CLUB fixtures are a mess in many counties and these proposals have as their starting point the need to regularise club fixtures. I have no doubt the players and the fans will be enthusiastic about the proposals being announced tonight. They would provide far more big games at a time of year when everybody likes to play and watch Gaelic football. County players will have several months in which to recover from their exertions before commencing a new playing season. Hard-pressed County Board treasurers will also welcome the proposals as they will lead to increased revenues for all counties. The less successful counties, which at any one time in the GAA can number as many as 20, would be major beneficiaries under the Football Development Committee's proposals if they were adopted. At present these counties play 90% of their football between October and March. Under the proposed system they would have more games in late spring and early summer and would have major incentives to do well, far beyond anything they presently have, such as the abysmal All-Ireland B championship. The proposals would have many other benefits such as increased live television exposure, increased sponsorship revenue and more big games for the many GAA grounds around Ireland which have spent vast amounts of money in recent years but are rarely given games capable of drawing crowds in excess of 5,000. Grounds such as Navan, Portlaoise, Parnell Park, Killarney, Breffni Park, Mullingar, Ballybofey, Casement Park, Castlebar and Hyde Park to mention just a handful. When the proposals are announced the GAA public can make up their own minds, as always. Undoubtedly they will attract opposition from some powerful vested interests within the GAA and that is democracy. The big test for the GAA's democratic structures will be whether the will of the majority, players, officials and fans, will be allowed to decide the issue after open debate in every county in Ireland. If that is the case then nobody can have any complaints whether the proposals are passed or rejected. What you see is what you get with these proposals. There are no hidden agendas or devious hidden plots to undermine the GAA at club, county or provincial level.  E-mail: emcgee@hotbot.com 
