sport gaa
{  
    February 17 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/a-long-long-way-from-clar-to-here-opening-croker-26000236.html }
REGARDLESS of the diplomatic phraseology used in the communiqué from Croke Park to announce the result of the Motions Committee's latest think-in, we can take it as fact that the weight of public opinion, particularly GAA-based public opinion, did weigh on the minds of the former presidents when they made their decision to allow Rule 42 to be debated at this year's Congress. For that we should all be grateful because a contrary verdict would have done inestimable damage to the good name of the GAA throughout Ireland. Now the battle can begin in earnest between those who want Croke Park thrown open and those who do not. It would be a mistake however to think that there are just two broad opposing groups in this debate. In fact within both the 'Yes' and the 'No' camps there are different clusters of activists all with their own particular stance on the matter. On the 'Yes' side, for instance, we have those who simply want soccer and rugby played in Croke Park because it is the best stadium in Ireland with the greatest comfort for spectators and that is the extent of their interest in the matter. Also on the 'Yes' side are those irrational people who constantly ring in to radio chat shows demanding that Croke Park be opened because it was partially funded by taxpayers' money through government grants. These people feel they own a share of the stadium because of the government subvention that represented less than a quarter of the total cost of the Croke Park development. Another 'Yes' grouping are those hard-headed business people in the GAA who see Croke Park as a major revenue earner for the GAA rather than just a world-class national monument. They want to squeeze the maximum additional revenue from the stadium be that from soccer, rugby, U2 or lap-dancing. The main point these people make is that the GAA for over 100 years was sustained and developed by voluntary effort from the Larry McGanns who collected money on tar-barrels outside club grounds to the weekly raffle ticket sellers and the countless number of people who coached young boys and girls without charge all, those years. But they now claim with some justification that GAA volunteers are rapidly becoming a dying breed and more and more people will have to be compensated for doing work in the GAA. The revenue earned from letting out Croke Park should be used to plug those gaps and lessen the necessity for fund-raising around the country. These people claim that by letting out Croke Park the GAA will be taking money from soccer and rugby which can then be used to promote GAA games. Then there is a large section of GAA members who want Croke Park opened up just out of a sense of pride. They are proud GAA people but in these ecumenical sporting times they also support Irish soccer and rugby teams with the same passion as their county GAA team. They would love to be singing Amhrán na bhFiann before a big soccer or rugby international in THEIR stadium along with 85,000 others. Proud that only the GAA was able to provide this stadium. On the 'No' side there are as many disparate groupings. The most dedicated one consists of those who are ideologically opposed to putting the GAA on the same plane as soccer and rugby because they believe that the GAA represents a more nationalistic attitude to sport and must remain true to the precepts which led to the foundation of the GAA - to revive and strengthen the national spirit. For these people the thought of standing to attention for 'God Save the Queen' in the ground where the original Bloody Sunday saw Black and Tans killing GAA players and spectators is, even still, a bridge too far. Farcical perhaps for those of Celtic Tiger vintage but nevertheless a genuine ideological tenet for many people. On a more practical level there is the group which really believes that opening Croke Park is but the thin edge of the wedge. They believe that in a few years time when maybe the Munster rugby team has an attractive Heineken Cup game they will seek to have it played in the Gaelic Grounds in Limerick or Pairc Ui Chaoimh. A bit further down the road when Knocknavanna Celtic soccer club have a big local derby cup match they will ask Larry McGann, the Hon. Secretary of Knocknavanna Gaels GAA club, to let them use their fine pitch with its small spectator stand. A deputation of soccer players who also play for the GAA club will make the approach, a club meeting will be called and who is to say that permission will not be given. After that it's open season. Then there will be 'No' people with more spurious arguments such as that the Croke Park pitch is already overused without adding in soccer or rugby games. Others still will claim that instead of letting in other sportsmen the GAA should allow more of its own members to play in the great stadium. The debate leading up to and including Congress will be fractious at times and plain zany at other times. All sorts of illogical points will be made and extraneous matters such as the attitude of the local residents will be brought up. The degree to which GAA games will take precedence when dates conflict, such as in the month of September each year, will also be brought up. And just to show that we can always find a new angle, just consider this. There are currently no floodlights in the stadium so where does that leave soccer matches? Enjoy the debate, folks because it is the nearest thing to blood sports we'll see this year.  Eugene McGee
  eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
