sport gaa
{ Kevin Kimmage 
    March 11 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/real-war-in-grassroots-26247505.html }
WITH costs escalating as Croke Park is developed, and a sizeable overdraft their companion for the next decade, the GAA will feel increased pressure in attracting the hearts and minds of our youth as soccer and rugby benefit from their new home and government funding. FOUR years ago, a senior lecturer in architecture from the University of Luton was commissioned by a leading sports industry journal Pan Stadia International to conduct a case study on the (then) recently constructed Cusack Stand in Croke Park. Noting that the building had been completed on time and within budget, his report highlighted the amount of planning which had gone into the development and the care with which the project's consultants had been selected. The architect was suitably impressed. "This stand is a considerable achievement for an amateur sports body like the GAA," he wrote. "It is an example from which many professional sports could learn much." In financial terms the construction of the redeveloped Croke Park has been equally formidable. Within the next 12 months, the Hogan Stand will be close to completion. By then, a conclusive decision will have been taken on the final phase the northern end whether to retain the terracing (as the GAA wishes) or install an all-seater section, which Dublin Corporation demands. By the time of completion, the GAA will have built an 80,000 capacity stadium at a (currently) projected cost of £174m, with relatively modest borrowing. Much of that cost will have been financed by the astute marketing of 98 hospitality suites and 8,000-plus premium seats sold on a five- and ten-year basis. This year, for example, the five-year seats on the Cusack side (first sold in 1996) come back on the market, providing renewed revenue for the construction costs on the Hogan side. Later this year, the final batch of executive suites and premium seats will go on sale at the Canal End (the Hogan suites have already been sold). While the final asking price has yet to be fixed, the GAA expect few problems in finding potential customers. With 24 suites on the market, they already have a 500-strong waiting list. Every 10 years, it is estimated that the sale of corporate suites will generate £24m. Croke Park is about to become a business within an association. The GAA's website currently advertises sumptuous conference and banqueting facilities in the Cusack Stand. When the Hogan side is complete, the corporate capabilities will be more than doubled. Projected annual running costs have been estimated at £2.5m. Yet few among the GAA's hierarchy believe that the stadium under suitable management will have problems financing itself. "I have a brother who runs a hotel in Dublin who would give his eye teeth for the corporate facilities which Croke Park has," says Management Committee member Brian McEniff. "Given its city centre location, the considerable car parking space available and the top class facilities it will offer, I would see no difficulty with Croke Park's corporate side being able to service the running costs of the stadium. Certainly the level of corporate business is out there at the moment." The key responsibility for running the stadium will shortly be taken up by a committee appointed by Central Council. That committee is likely to comprise of GAA president Sean McCague, Director General Liam Mulvihill, former president Peter Quinn, and three business figures from outside the association, with one further appointee of the president. Day-to-day administration will be overseen by a full-time stadium manager and financial controller. Within ten years, when the loans (approximately £40m) have been paid off, the combination of earnings from corporate facilities, increased capacity attendances and ongoing sales of corporate suites should ensure that the new Croke Park will act as a major revenue generator for the association well into the new century. The greatest challenge for the association lies in the intervening years. Far away from the scene of All-Ireland finals and corporate banquets, the real struggle lies among the grassroots; the schools, towns and parklands, where the ongoing battle for the hearts and minds of the nation's youth continues to rage. "From the outset of the Croke Park redevelopment, there was a commitment given that grants to all other areas of our responsibility games development, clubs, county boards and provincial councils etc, would not alone be maintained, but increased. We have continued to meet those commitments," says GAA PRO Danny Lynch. They are considerable, for Croke Park is not the only stadium in the country. In Limerick, plans have been drawn up for development work in the Gaelic Grounds at a projected cost of between £8m and £9m. Inevitably, the operation will require hefty central funding. Three weeks ago, the GAA's budget for 2001 committed a record £3.6m to games' development. While rugby and soccer continue to encroach into traditional GAA areas, the numbers of school teachers coaching Gaelic games on a voluntary basis is dwindling; few within the association underestimate the need for more full-time coaches to preach the gospel of Gaelic games. At the same time, the repayments on Croke Park have to be met. Twelve months ago, the finance work group, chaired by Peter Quinn, warned Congress that, to repay the association's borrowings, Central Council would have to double it's annual £2.5m outlay every year for the next 10 years. That would leave less money in the kitty for games' development at a time when its two greatest sporting rivals soccer and rugby could find themselves cash rich. One of the options Quinn put forward was the possibility of Croke Park becoming the national stadium. "We need £50m over the next 10 years, which is a massive requirement," he said. "We have to look at all angles and talking to the Government about doing a deal on Croke Park is very definitely one of them." The association, weighed down by its own history, failed to make a move on the initiative. On Friday, the nightmare scenario was unveiled when the Football Association of Ireland decided courtesy of a £45m sweetener to row in with the Irish Rugby Football Union as an anchor tenant at the Government's Stadium Ireland project. Now, while it struggles to meet its financial obligations, the GAA's biggest sporting rivals can look forward to a new, 80,000-seater stadium in 2005 with pockets full of cash to pump into games' development. The GAA's short term response will be to seek more funding from the government. "There is no doubt that we will," says one senior GAA figure. "If it transpires that the FAI received £45m to abandon Eircom Park, then you can take it as certain that the GAA will look for more funding. We may not get what we are looking for (£40m) but I would say more money will come, because Charlie McCreevy and Bertie Ahern in particular would be seen as strong supporters of the association." Ironically, another potential chance to increase revenue lies at the doorstep of the GAA's main rivals. "There may be a window of opportunity to facilitate rugby until the new stadium is built," says Brian McEniff. "I'm quite sure that if Ireland were playing England and we had a completed 80,000 capacity Croke Park available, as opposed to their own restricted capacity in Lansdowne Road, the IRFU would be only too glad to negotiate. If the GAA took 15% off the top, that would give us an income of £150,000." It hardly seems six years since the then GAA president, Jack Boothman blew any notion of facilitating 'foreign' games in Croke Park with a pithy observation: "You can be as friendly with your neighbour as you like," he said "but you don't let him camp in your garden and you don't let him sleep with your wife." We live in permissive times. 
