sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    December 07 2014 11:04 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-switching-all-ireland-finals-dates-may-prove-risky-move-30806782.html }
The GAA is not famous for making fast, unexpected decisions of a major nature - it often takes several years to arrive at a conclusion regarding structures or substantial rule changes. It took over 50 years to get rid of Rule 27, The Ban, for instance. So I was surprised to read in the media recently that the GAA seems to be seriously considering changing the dates of the All-Ireland finals with the intention of bringing them forward by some weeks. That would mean that the All-Ireland hurling final would be played in August and the football final in early September. The rationale seems to be that this would in some way facilitate the local club championships with a view to an expected decision that the All-Ireland club competitions will be finished within the calendar year - in other words these finals would be played in September rather than dragging them into the following March as at present. Presumably, the belief is that moving forward the All-Irelands would help counties finish their club championships earlier but how logical is this? Under the present draft fixture lists from recent years, there are only four counties left in the All-Ireland race after the August Bank Holiday weekend. That means that all the other counties should be able to concentrate on their local championships without any major interruption in August, September and October, leaving adequate time to conclude those local competitions - if the will is there of course within the counties to carry out that remit. In recent years there have been many examples of counties not being efficient enough in carrying out club championship fixtures from August to October and hence we get so many delayed competitions. This was exemplified this year when neither Tipperary nor Wexford had football teams available in to compete in the provincial championships, which must have been very disappointing for clubs in those counties. There are still counties where the wedding of a player can be used as a reason for postponing a senior club championship game! Now I am well aware from my time with the Football Review Committee that fixture-making at club level is not an exact science and it is no coincidence that Wexford and Tipperary are dual counties and with the success of their county hurlers, and footballers in Tipp's case, there is extra pressure on both hurling and football competitions. But changing the dates of the All-Irelands to help counties play club matches seems an over-the-top reaction to the club fixtures problems. For a start, All-Ireland dates are sacrosanct in GAA mythology by now and thousands of emigrants adapt their recreation lifestyles to be able to attend these finals. But the most important thing about proposed date changes is the welfare of the GAA as a national body because once the All-Irelands are over, the media coverage of GAA matters drops dramatically and rugby and soccer take over. This is so obvious at this time of year that the GAA often seem to be nothing but bit players on the Irish sporting landscape. At present, the GAA media coverage only starts to decline in mid-October but if the All-Ireland dates are brought forward then that GAA media vacuum will commence in September. That would mean there will only be high-profile GAA coverage in the media from June to mid-September, about 15 weeks out of the 52. Hardly a great idea from the GAA's viewpoint nationally and a factor that has to be top of the agenda on any discussion about bringing forward the dates of the All-Ireland finals. Gaelic games are now a commodity as is also the case with other major sports such as rugby and soccer. So in all cases the games have to be sold to the sporting public over as long a season as possible. In that regard, GAA games are already the losers as, from October to the end of May, other sports get more publicity in the media because their activities have more high-profile games during that period. For example, RTE, the national television company financed largely by the licence holders, do not normally broadcast any live GAA games from the end of September until late May, a period of about 33 weeks. Could you imagine that happening with the national sports in any other country such as the UK or the USA? Changing All-Ireland dates would make that situation worse so the GAA decision-makers need to tread carefully when making any decision to change. I enjoyed a glorious night in John B Keane's premises in Listowel last Friday night for a book signing for my recently published 'The GAA in My Time'. It being Kerry there was no escaping 1982 and all that, and with the likes of Jimmy Deenihan, Ger Power and Ogie Moran present, it was like a flashback in time. Mine host Billy Keane was controlling a question-and-answer session to a packed house and I managed to escape largely unscathed. Billy kept taunting his audience with a big surprise he would unfold at the finish and when it emerged in the form of the football used in that famous final, the one that Seamus Darby shot to the net and ended the Kerry five-in-a-row dream, the excitement was tangible and cameras went into overdrive. That result still leaves an indelible mark on Kerry fans but as always they have learned to carry no bitterness. That ball was presented to myself on behalf of the Offaly players by Sean Lowry, who had it in his hands when the final whistle went that day and which I will presently give to the GAA Museum for posterity. Because of that visit to Listowel, I was unable to attend the launch of the magnificent publication, 'Moorefield GAA History', but skimming through its 572 pages and 235 pictures, it looks like being one of the best club histories I have ever come across. Local Kildare hero Christy Moore once wrote a song about their 1962 county final victory! Fionnuala Kelly at 087 9449200 can tell you everything about this great book. Indo Sport 
