sport gaa
{  
    January 09 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/players-to-reap-benefits-of-change-in-attitude-26252922.html }
Recent murmurs of discontent among players have prompted the GAA to move on several fronts. DERMOT CROWE reveals the latest attempts to satisfy the growing demands for a better deal for players. GROWING pressure on the GAA to implement a series of player demands looks set to finally reap some reward following the efforts of an internally-appointed advisory group. Several proposals forwarded by the GAA's Players' Advisory Group (PAG) are currently with the Management Committee which will re-submit them with possible alterations to Central Council on January 22. Among the proposals is one that players' wives and partners should be accommodated on the eve of All-Ireland finals at no cost and invited to the Monday luncheon on the day after the big game. All competing players should also receive two stand tickets directly from Croke Park. Given that their content isn't particularly radical, the GAA is expected to sanction the majority of the group's requests, even if they have tended to react tentatively in the past. The recent arrival of the Gaelic Players Association (GPA), which has been touring the country recruiting members, is widely believed to have helped accelerate the process. It is known that the GAA is concerned about such a potentially powerful lobby group existing outside its auspices, although the GPA has continuously stressed that it will campaign in a spirit of goodwill and co-operation. Notably, the GAA has avoided making any meaningful comment on the GPA's arrival, probably fearful that a negative reaction might strengthen support for their cause. High-profile players like Dessie Farrell, Seamus Moynihan and Ja Fallon have been closely linked with the new association. The PAG falls within the GAA's remit and is ultimately accountable to Croke Park having been established by Joe McDonagh when he arrived in office. It is chaired by former Galway hurler Noel Lane who told the Sunday Independent that he felt their recommendations were ``implementable.'' Their recommendations are the result of three years work, comprising numerous meetings and a nationwide survey of players from all levels in the 32 counties. The survey found that 80 per cent of respondents wanted to be reimbursed for loss of earnings and that most wanted more complimentary match tickets, playing gear and mileage expenses. The PAG's recommendations, based on the survey findings, include a call for the Amateur Status Committee's proposals to be implemented fully. The committee, chaired by Peter Quinn, was established in the wake of the Pro-Active sports agency's publicly declared interest in endorsing leading GAA players in 1995. That led to the GAA rapidly announcing that only endorsements with their sanction would be condoned, while Quinn's committee set about finding suitable proposals to meet players' demands. Although they had a successful passage at Congress, some of the recommendations have yet to be practiced on the ground such as that requiring the contentious mileage rate be no less than 18p and no higher than 30p. A Congress commitment to offer financial benefits to less well off county boards in such circumstances has also failed to materialise, it is understood. The PAG is also recommending that recent proposals to improve refereeing, presented by a committee led by Paddy Collins, should be implemented. They said there was an urgent need to raise standards and consistency at all levels. All available resources should be made available to ensure the optimum number of matches are allocated to club players, they add, while they are proposing that free tickets be made available to competing players for major games and passes for matches at county level. Elsewhere, the PAG calls for a nationwide committee to be established to represent players in the future and for greater publicity to be given to the recently enhanced players' injury scheme and new insurance package. Seventy per cent of players surveyed were unaware of the benefits of the players injury scheme and their insurance options. The situation has changed considerably since then, with the injury scheme benefits having been practically doubled at a Central Council meeting in November and a new insurance scheme supplanting the old injury fund. Lane's committee features leading player representatives from both codes in all provinces: Trevor Giles, DJ Carey, Terence McNaughton, Tony Scullion, Michael Cunniffe, Pat Holmes, George Frend, Niall Cahalane and Tomas Mulcahy. But others are sceptical. ``It's a marketing exercise by the GAA, totally reactionary. Do you think this would be happening if the GAA was not having to deal with the GPA?'' said one inter-county footballer from Munster. The GPA charges a £40 membership fee, is fronted by Downman Donal O'Neill and originated mainly among disaffected Ulster players. In recent months it has been holding recruitment drives in Leinster and Munster, Connacht will follow shortly. ``Even if the GAA was to introduce all of our recommendations I believe the GPA will still have a role to play. To exclude the main instruments, the players, is ridiculous. What is the harm in having an individual body like this, outside the GAA?'' said the player. The GPA's two main targets, a revamped football championship and improved insurance conditions for players, are already either being dealt with or have been met. It hopes to have nationwide structures in place ahead of the upcoming championship, but will await forthcoming events inside the corridors of power with much interest. GOVERNMENT funding for GAA projects under the national lottery scheme in 1999 oustripped the entire sporting budget for the previous year. Some £6.35m, 32 per cent, was shared among GAA interests from a record overall sports dividend of £20m. The nearest sporting competitor was soccer which garnered 17 per cent of the available funding, or £3.4m. Of the original count of 1,900 grant applications the GAA claimed approximately a quarter twice as many as soccer and eight times the rugby total.  Overall funding for sports projects increased three-fold on the £6m distributed in 1998. The GAA's lion's share supplements a contentious £20m secured under national lottery funding two years ago to help drive the Croke Park development. 
