sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    September 10 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/the-overview-26034159.html }
Amateurs 1; The Pros 0 MAYBE Liam Mulvihill should be Taoiseach and Bertie Ahern Director General of the GAA. At least that way the various sports bodies might have their own venues for staging internationals. Because while other sporting organisations fumbled their way towards modern facilities, the GAA, under the guidance of Liam Mulvihill, actually DID something and the magnificent world-class stadium that is now Croke Park shows what can be done when dedicated people set their minds to it even if they are 'only amateurs'. The result of the GAA's practical approach to providing a stadium now means the Taoiseach of this country has to beg the GAA to allow Croke Park to be made available for international soccer should the joint Ireland-Scotland bid for the 2008 European Championships be successful. And unless the GAA says yes, then it is clear the bid is doomed to failure. While that may be bad news for soccer and the FAI, there are equally bad prospects for the IRFU. Inherent in the much-touted plans for the proposed national stadium at Abbotstown was the Government-assisted parallel redevelopment of Lansdowne Road into an all-seater stadium for about 55,000 people. But if the Government has no money to spend in Abbotstown, they clearly will not be financing the redevelopment of Lansdowne Road either. The fate of Irish soccer is even more gloomy in the short term because the FAI were to have been the main users of the proposed national stadium and were prevailed upon by the Government to abandon their own plans for eircom Park a couple of years ago to become 'anchor tenants' in Abbotstown. Now the FAI have neither. It will be difficult for many GAA people all over Ireland to stifle wry smiles as they digest these latest developments. After all, they were the amateur organisation while the FAI and the IRFU were professional sports but the amateurs end up with the magnificent stadium while the professionals are left behind. Of course, Croke Park would not be in the near-finished state it is in today but for over ?100m of taxpayers' money. Bertie Ahern kick-started the project 10 years ago with a grant of £20m and then, two years ago, a further £60m was allocated in controversial circumstances. This happened on the eve of the GAA Congress at which delegates were asked to vote on a motion to allow for the renting out of Croke Park for other sports at the GAA's discretion. When the vote was taken the following day the motion failed to get the necessary two-thirds majority by a fraction of one vote. Many GAA people are convinced the timing of Ahern's announcement of the grant was the key factor in that result. Had the GAA allowed in soccer that time it would certainly have damaged the prospect of a national stadium then. So how ironic it is now that the same Bertie Ahern, an avowed GAA fan, is now appealing to the GAA to ALLOW soccer be played in Croke Park in 2008. To use a great GAA cliché, what goes around, comes around. It is odds on that Croke Park will be available for soccer in 2008 and possibly long before that. The GAA holds a Special Congress in a few weeks to consider the report of the Strategic Review Committee (SRC), a think-thank which recently drew up a blueprint for the future of the GAA. Included in their report is a recommendation that the decision as to the future use of Croke Park should be given to the Central Council of the GAA. This motion looks sure to be passed. Central Council is a body of about 45 people from every county in Ireland which meets about six times a year. The significance of this proposal is that it takes the decision about Croke Park away from Congress, which has over 300 delegates. The Central Council would be much more likely to open up Croke Park for limited, specific events such as internationals in rugby or soccer. The harsh economic reality of the new Croke Park is that it will lie idle from October to March every year if other sports are not allowed in. We are told it is not economically viable to have any event in Croke Park unless an attendance of 35,000 is guaranteed. The notion advanced in the Government statement yesterday of a national stadium being built by private funding is just that a notion. There is no way such funding can take place in Ireland. Corporate bodies are more likely to spend their money buying corporate facilities in places like Croke Park or a revamped Lansdowne Road. Most of the available corporate boxes in Croke Park, some costing £250,000, have been sold quite an extraordinary achievement. Obviously, the GAA does owe Bertie Ahern a debt of gratitude for his generous grant-aiding of Croke Park. Whether Bertie will seek to call in his favours with the GAA by now encouraging the opening up of the stadium to the playing of soccer and rugby will be one of the more fascinating things to watch out for in the coming weeks. 
