sport gaa
{ Kevin O'Shaughnessy 
    April 07 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/if-gaa-bosses-were-devious-theyd-open-up-croke-park-now-26050812.html }
SAY what you like about the GAA hierarchy, but one thing  they most assuredly are not is devious. Nicolo Machiavelli, the godfather of cunning, must be turning in his grave this week as the great and good of Gaeldom prepare for next Saturday's annual congress and the latest instalment of the debate about allowing other sports be played at Croke Park. If ever a situation provided an opportunity for a bit of deviousness, a dollop of conniving, and some sly strategic scheming, this is it. But the GAA's political leaders, God bless them, have instead chosen to conduct the debate in the most honest, open, principled and forthright fashion imaginable. We've had former GAA president Jack Boothman issuing an emotional, heartfelt plea to delegates, calling on them to stand firm against pressure from "gombeen politicians" and the media and to preserve the sacred sod from being overrun by the foreign hordes. And we've had people in the 'Yes' camp using buzz-words like "inclusiveness" and "an expression of our self-confidence". They point out that the Leitrim county footballers train on a rugby pitch in Longford, that a GAA team in Luxembourg play on a soccer pitch, that the Guernsey GAA club play on a cricket pitch, and that it is only right and proper that the GAA should return the compliment by easing restrictions on the use of Croke Park. It's all very principled and honourable. Both sides in the debate have firmly-held beliefs and they are expressing their views in an honest, above board and dignified manner. However, if the GAA were really devious and really anti-soccer, there would be no need for any soul-searching. They would throw the doors of Croke Park wide open in a supposedly magnanimous gesture on Saturday. And by doing so, they would cunningly copperfasten their status as the country's most powerful sporting body for ever more. It's simple really. If they delete Rule 42 now and hand over the power to decide on the use of Croke Park to the Central Council, they would, in one move, succeed in cornering the Government, the FAI, the IRFU and the planning authorities Firstly, it would immediately undermine all arguments in favour of going ahead with the building of Stadium Ireland. Even if Fianna Fáil get re-elected in May, Bertie Ahern would come under intense pressure to abandon his pet white elephant, so Croke Park would most likely become the only stadium in town. With Lansdowne Road becoming increasingly dilapidated, the FAI and the IRFU would have no option but to go to the GAA, cap in hand, begging for venue to stage their international games. As landlords and, more importantly, landlords with a monopoly on suitable housing the GAA could charge the soccer and rugby organisations whatever rent they see fit and use the money to promote hurling and Gaelic football. But it's imperative that the GAA make their move now and not after the general election. If Bertie returns to power in May, as seems likely, and Rule 42 is still in place, he will be able to use it as a reason to press ahead with his Abbots town project and the opportunity for the GAA to monopolise the stadium business will be lost forever. Some GAA leaders have cautioned against opening Croke Park before the election, fearing that it may be unwise to play their trump card until they know the lie of the land. However, the beauty of the proposal in front of congress on Saturday is that they don't just have one trump card, but two. By handing over the power to decide on the use of Croke Park to the Central Council, the GAA would do enough to kill the Bertie Bowl. But the reality is that they would still not have committed themselves to anything, or weakened their hand for any future negotiations, as the Central Council could quite easily say 'Ah yes, maybe, when the time is right, etc' and keep the ban on other sports in place for as long as they like. Or, if they so wished, they could open the doors and then just as easily change their minds and close them again. It's not really change, but an illusion of change. Lifting Rule 42 would also help solve the planning problems which have plagued Croke Park. The ridiculous stipulation that only three non-GAA events can be held at the venue each year would, if there's any logic, have to be binned forthwith. That shouldn't be too hard as a precedent will be set by the Special Olympics next year. A two-week long event, it would clearly be in breach of those stringent regulations, but not even the most stupid fascist would object to the Special Olympics it on planning grounds. Political pressure would also have to be brought to bear to allow the GAA install floodlights the wiring for which has already been put in place during the redevelopment of the venue. As for the problems with local residents objecting to their plans for Hill 16, well they'd be silenced quickly as the completion of the de facto new National Stadium would surely take precedence over a few 'whingeing' natives. Indeed, it wouldn't be too hard to argue that any of the residents, whose families moved into the area in the last 100 years, must surely have realised at the time that the big, concrete thingy that dominates the skyline and blocks out the sun was a sports stadium and, as such, might conceivably be used for sports events would would attract large crowds on a regular basis. However, there's no need for the local residents, the FAI, IRFU or Bertie to panic about Saturday's vote. Luckily for them, the GAA bosses aren't so conniving and devious that they would use the supposedly magnanimous gesture of opening Croke Park as a means of trampling all over them. koshaughnessy@independent.ie 
