sport gaa
{  
    December 13 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/gaelic-gamesters-go-for-the-pricey-sponsorship-gold-26128896.html }
Will infighting derail the Dublin GAA from riding its own Celtic tiger? Liam Horan hears rumblingsWHEN former Dublin GAA chairman John Bailey claimed a sponsor was ready to sink £1.55m into the GAA in the city over the next five years, marketing people almost fell out of their soft seats. But as with so much in the GAA, something else looms in the background, a GAA-politico issue that could explain many things. A week earlier, news emerged that the Boardwere in the late stages of negotiating a sponsorship deal with Champion Sports, believed to be worth just over £1m over five years. Tonight, in the Board's offices at Parnell Park, Mr Bailey will challenge current chairman John Egan for the job. Ergo, it might be bad for Mr Egan if Mr Bailey really does have a well-heeled sponsor up his sleeve: Mr Baily adamantly denies it is no election stunt, though he can't deny it shouldn't do his election chances any harm. ``Is this the Dublin county board chairmanship race we're watching, or the Telethon?'' quipped one Dub supporter, as the figures clocked up. But the figure of £1.55m is excessive, according to one industry source. ``I would reckon the GAA in Dublin is worth between £200,000 and £250,000 per year, no more,'' he said. ``Dublin is most the lucrative county in Ireland other leading counties are getting no more than £30,000 or £40,000 a year. The way the GAA championship operates doesn't help because you could put big money into a team and they could be beaten in the first round. ``It is not particularly good value.'' The new sponsor will replace Arnott's, who had a good innings as sponsor. Dublin appeared in the 1992, 1994 and 1995 All-Ireland finals, winning in '95. For Arnott's, there was a quick payback from replica jersey sales as the Dubs went on the march each season. Presumably that would hold true for Champion Sports or whoever the new sponsors are. Localised squabbling aside and I predict Egan will hold onto the chair, for those who are interested the news item has put the focus back on the GAA's money-making capacity. In a week when the FAI announced a £4.25m tv deal with Sky Sports, the GAA remains the last great untapped market of Irish sport. It has almost everything, including a captive and growing audience right around the country, plus substantial media exposure. What it just doesn't have are enough games every year to really attract mega-bucks from sponsors. Below the level of the major GAA deals namely, Guinness, Bank of Ireland, and the Croke Park corporate boxes there exists a complete second tier of marketing opportunities waiting to be capitalised upon. But dramatic changes will have to be made if the GAA wishes to turn the potential into pounds, and those who propose change in the GAA meet a brick-wall of resistance at almost every turn. The GAA will never realise its full earning potential while certain constraints are in place. It might wish to tie up with Sky Sports, for instance, for reasons of hard cash, and also to benefit from Sky's unrivalled ability to hype up games. But to do so would require a sea-change in the attitude of rank-and-file GAA members. It would be a brave, or foolish, GAA president who would stand in front a packed Annual Congress and tell delegates that the games had been sold to Sky. The structure of the GAA's championship is another no-no for would-be team sponsors. For example, they can't be sure their teams will play a decent match any more than once a year - the risk is very high, and this has contrived to keep prices lower than they would be if matches were guaranteed. On the other hand, if a team has an extended championship run, the exposure is colossal: the logos flash across the television screens on a regular basis. It couldn't be bought in advertising. Sponsors like to wine-and-dine clients at events. Apart from Croke Park, there are no wining-and-dining facilities at GAA stadia. Customer facilities, apart from the corporates, are disastrous in most of the county grounds. The corporates keep a close eye on the GAA. They have gobbled up luxury boxes in Croke Park and enjoy the feel of the venue on big match day. But they have not fully embraced the organisation with open arms, not just yet. They recognise the powerful hold the games have on their supporters, but, under the present championship system, it is a hit-and-miss affair for those who make hard-nosed business decisions. The proposals to introduce a minimum of 10 football championship matches every year for every county opening up all sorts of sponsorship and marketing possibilities is running into deep trouble and looks doomed at next year's Congress.  Fans and inter-county players will not be the only ones disappointed if the initiative fails. Sponsors, too, will see it as a missed opportunity. 
