sport gaa
{  
    April 21 2008 04:16 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/other-sports/multi-sports-facilities-gaa-will-work-with-local-authorities-27559259.html }
Speaking at a civic reception at County Hall in advance of the annual GAA Congress in Sligo last week-end, Mr. Brennan said the Association accepted that local authorities could not provide facilities for one particular sport and that any amenities developed by them would have to be multi-sports projects.The GAA would support initiatives of this kind and would like to work c Speaking at a civic reception at County Hall in advance of the annual GAA Congress in Sligo last week-end, Mr. Brennan said the Association accepted that local authorities could not provide facilities for one particular sport and that any amenities developed by them would have to be multi-sports projects. The GAA would support initiatives of this kind and would like to work closely with Local Authorities throughout the country in relation to the provision of sports facilities. Mr. Brennan said another hugely important area which the GAA would be addressing over the coming years was the integration of non-national children into the culture of Gaelic Games. The Association realised that all of this work couldn’t be left to Government and that the GAA had a role to play in helping to integrate the children of non-nationals into the Irish way of life and make them feel at home in Ireland. The President said it was a great honour for the Association to hold their annual Congress in Sligo. Last year’s Congress was held in his home county of Kilkenny and this year there was ‘a calling from the West’ “After speaking to Connacht Council President, Lauri Quinn, I knew we would be coming to Sligo as there was no way Lauri would let his home county down”, Mr. Brennan remarked. He was particularly pleased that the Congress was held in Sligo this year to coincide with the retirement of Tommy Kilcoyne as County Board Secretary after 38 years service. He said Mr. Kilcoyne had given outstanding service to the GAA and was held in the highest regard at Croke Park and throughout the country. Paying tribute to the GAA in Sligo, Mr. Brennan said he was particularly impressed by the ongoing developments at Markievicz Park. This was in keeping with the Association’s infrastructure strategy which was focussed on providing comfort and safety for spectators rather than increasing capacity. Among the attendance at the civic reception were the GAA’s new Director General, Padraic Duffy, Liam O’Neill, Leinster Council, Jimmy O’Gorman, Munster GAA Council, Lauri Quinn, Connacht Council, John Gormley, Britain GAA, former Director General, Liam Mulvihill, Sligo County Board Chairman, John Murphy, and members of the Sligo Executive 
