sport gaa
{  
    December 07 2011 11:55 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/devereux-or-nolan-for-chairman-of-wexford-gaa-27729390.html }
Why should the clubs of Wexford elect you as Chairman on December 12? In the first instance we need change, not only of personnel but more importantly of direction. We are dominated by personalities and not by policy. Wexford was always most effective on, and off, the playing field, when the county was directed, and controlled, by the clubs via the county board. This principle is sacrosanct to me, and written clearly into the Official Guide, yet the majority of clubs express the view that the decision-making process has been taken from their control and vested in the hands of a small minority of officers and paid officials. That is not the GAA way of doing things and must be challenged, and changed, from January 2012 onwards. My undertaking is to involve the clubs in the decisionmaking process via a pre-planned district forum, county forum and county board and together we will lay out a pathway from 2012 to 2014 which puts the club, players and games top of the agenda and which has at its core the objective of improving club and county performance. What do you see as the single biggest challenge facing the G.A.A. in Wexford? Putting in place a strategy which sets out a three-year vision, and targets, by which we will achieve it. The core of this strategy must be designing and sustaining fixtures/games and club coaching models which enable us compete at the highest level in both codes simultaneously and which put Wexford clubs at an advantage when they qualify to compete in Leinster club championship fixtures. We simply have to match the training, coaching and games volume of the best football and hurling clubs/counties and make that our key target for club development in the period 2012-2014. Secondly a realistic, transparent and shared assessment of our financial difficulties is an immediate challenge to be faced and solutions agreed by February 2012. This will not be easy and will require leadership to lay out a three-year programme to bring finances under control. Delaying this matter any further must be avoided as the consequences will be severe and long term. Given the growing number of paid employees in the G.A.A., appreciation for the role of the volunteer is fast diminishing. Would you agree? Yes. This is all too evident for the past few years. The reality is that we are a volunteer-led organisation which, according to our own rules, requires policy decisions to be taken by the volunteer committee for implementation by the full time or appointed staff. To me this principle is non-negotiable and must be underpinned by a strong and united management committee leading by example. Collective responsibilities, and accountability, are traditional GAA values which have proven successful in the past and are absolutely necessary to deal with the challenges ahead. All lead functions should be assigned to elected officers and implemented under their supervision. The very essence of the volunteer system is that we account to the clubs at convention and only they have the authority to elect or remove us. It is my view that when current contractual time frames expire we should return to electing an honorary county secretary and if necessary supporting this by the appointment of an administrator reporting to the voluntary officer. This I believe is the best system to promote the long-term interests of the association and our hard-working employees on whom we depend. The club player is the heart of the Association. How do you hope to improve the welfare of clubs and their players? The most important issue is fixture reform. We have made significant progress in recent years but the 'feast or famine scenario' continues to act as negative pressure on club scheduling, and management. The effect on players in terms of burn-out and fatigue, is well documented. Dual clubs are particularly hit by this issue. The CCCC has shown leadership and must be encouraged to drive on with reform until we reach a stage where club players are active during the full summer peak period and the tradition of jamming our season into a tight time frame is discontinued. Secondly we have to recognise the financial strain placed on clubs vis a vis the costs of coaching, training and team preparation. This can be alleviated by centrally-funded Level 1 coaching courses and the provision of training and coaching services from our full-time coaches at times which suit the club activity. These are serious issues for club players and must be addressed. If Dublin can contest two All-ireland Minor finals with a number of dual players, why can't Wexford arrive at a satisfactory solution to this problem? How would you propose to tackle this issue? Firstly by goodwill, generosity and recognition of the equal status of both codes in everything we do. Any bias in coaching, or development squad preparation, must be removed in 2012 by equalising the coaching structure to recognise both codes equally and to finally eradicate the notion that either code is responsible for the other's lack of success. Secondly we need to enforce the Dual Player Policy put through by Coiste na nog in 2011 which was issued widely for consultation and finally adopted as formal policy by all concerned including team mentors. A genuine attempt to work the policy in 2012 will put this issue away finally and enable players make the choice which suits them best. Finally I have always held the view that Minor should be regarded as a development path for U-21 and that Wexford has a better chance at U-21 than any other grade. The adoption of this principle and the removal of the obsession with winning Minor would go a long way to changing the current mindset. Either way the die is cast on this issue and there will be no deviation from the Dual Player Policy and that is final! Are you satisified with the quality and quantity of club games played in Wexford from July to August? No. Each year this issue arises and gets deferred. The CCCC are making good progress and Derek Kent has been radical in his approach but support from the clubs is vital if real reform is to happen. Poor quality games also lead to poor attendances. This issue must be put top of the agenda and dealt with. A long period of inactivity followed by non-stop fixtures is a recipe for trouble for players, clubs and administrators. I have seen at first hand the effect on U-18 players trying to match multiple adult fixtures in a seven-day period, while a mid-summer time frame has expired with little or no activity except under-age games. We simply have to provide regular games in a proper rotation during the peak summer period. We should also ensure that GAA rules on the development of an annual charter, which clearly stipulates the fixtures and games schedule, be signed by the respective county team managers and then enforced by the Management Committee. The application of the nine-day rule once enforced will soon lead to acceptance and become the norm. There are four Districts for G.A.A. purposes in Wexford. Have they any relevance any more, and was it a good idea to start playing the majority of championships on a countywide rather than District basis? Taking control from the districts to a central position has cost us in terms of local democracy but the reasons for the original change were understandable as clubs wanted to compete on a countywide basis. Whether we return to the original system is a matter for debate, but I feel there is a definite case to be made for district involvement in Junior competitions, new initiatives such as small-side competitions during peak summer periods and increasing games by organising winter indoor small-sided competitions. There is also a major role for district committees in organising an annual club forum in tandem with the district AGM and oversight of Isolated Player initiatives, Level 1 coaching roll-out and full-time/part-time coaching support to clubs. Any attempt to bring about a significant increase in games and player activity will have to include the role of the district officers in the Strategic Plan as otherwise it will be unwieldy and will fail at the first hurdle. Given the current economic climate, how is it proposed to meet the financial outlay on the Ferns development? Firstly there are two scenarios we must avoid - imposing a levy on clubs or passing this burden onto a future generation. The challenge is serious and will now be inherited by the incoming chairman. We must firstly draw a line under the discussion on the project and start to make hard business decisions to best serve our own needs. The factual position is that the land cannot be sold, or handed back, thus a scaled and well-managed project to turn it into a beneficial asset, with revenue potential, is our only option. This must only be achieved through restricting expenditure to grants available from third parties. The big issue is the debt burden which in the first instance must be brought into our annual expenditure balance when measured against income, and the shortfall made up from a series of expenditure cuts and income generation rather than overdraft access. The Strategic Plan should scale this over a four-year period aiming to have the debt repayment burden within a manageable expenditure balance by Convention 2015. The possibility of using grant funding for short-term interest reduction on the loan should also be considered. The bottom line is that the money was borrowed and now must be repaid! Sensible decisions in January 2012 could save us between €200,000 to €500,000 in interest payments over 15 years. If you are elected, will there be quarterly financial reports prepared for County Board meetings, and will the exact financial position be outlined at every monthly meeting? Yes. The first stage is a detailed analysis of our current position followed by the drafting of a 3-year strategic plan to eliminate any shortfall having taken fully into account all outgoings including capital repayments. Our income and expenditure, under a number of headings, occur sporadically throughout the year and must be predicted across a 12-month cycle to allow for real assessment, and intervention, at any given time. This should start prior to convention at the commencement of our financial year. The management committee is collectively responsible to the county board for finance and this can only be met by producing regular financial reports which measure predicted cash flow movements against those in the Strategic Plan and annual budget. Collective financial responsibility is a basic ethos of the GAA and there can be no room, or tolerance, for any deviation in this regard. These are basic business practices and the time has arrived for these matters to be dealt with in a manner which all reasonable people regard as prudent. Do you feel we are getting value for money on the expenditure on inter-county teams? Yes. The money expended our county panels, when measured against other counties, is reasonable and a necessary ongoing investment. The teams are our shop window and main marketing tool and have already made significant sacrifices in terms of reductions and cutbacks. The effort put in by players is huge and reflects the real amateur nature of their contribution to the GAA and county. The current recession is putting pressure on this arrangement as players struggle more and more on the financial front either due to unemployment or high college costs. We should all be required to operate under the same financial restrictions placed on our county teams. Personally I feel we could do more to assist our young players get employment, or educational grants, and thus allow them to train and play in a stress-free atmosphere. The period 2012-2014 should be all about players, preparation and performance. Why should the clubs of Wexford elect you as Chairman on December 12? Being involved in many roles at County Board level for the last 19 years has given me invaluable experience which will be of huge benefit in my work of bringing Wexford GAA forward. Being chairman of my own club for 14 years gave me an acute and in-depth understanding of how local clubs function. I was responsible, as Club Chairman, for a €600,000 club development, an experience which served to develop my management skills, particularly in relation to decision-making and driving projects forward. As Chairman I would make a huge effort to create an excellent working relationship between county board officers and club officials as I see this as being essential for the proper functioning of county board. Finally I would place immense importance on the development of Gaelic football and hurling. I am equally interested in the progress of both games and would strive to ensure that both codes would be developed to the highest possible standard. What do you see as the single biggest challenge facing the GAA in Wexford? As with every other voluntary organisation in Ireland, the biggest challenge facing the GAA in Wexford is finance. The GAA depends on its members and supporters for its income and in these trying financial times is suffering badly. The lack of funds available to the County Board has and will continue to have a detrimental effect on the coaching and development of young players for our county teams. Of course, the economic downturn is affecting local clubs as well as County Board. At local level, fundraising is a constant necessary part of club life and is, in many cases, an ongoing problem for club members. A further knock-on effect of the financial crisis is that many of our members have to go abroad in search for employment resulting in a huge reduction of playing members in clubs. This has already affected the standards of playing in both codes and will continue to do so. Given the growing number of paid employees in the GAA, appreciation for the role of the volunteer is fast diminishing. Would you agree? I agree that the appreciation for volunteers is diminishing but as chairman I would ensure that the importance be placed back on volunteers. The GAA has become the effective organisation it is today through the hard work and dedication of people who were interested in the development of the games. Volunteers were and still are the core of the organisation and should always be recognised for their work and supported as much as possible. The Wexford GAA strategic plan outlines the importance of our amateur status but it is a constant challenge for the Association to ensure the balance between paid full-time officials and the work of volunteers. I do agree that in the modern organisation there is a place for paid employees due to the expansion and nationwide aspect of the games but these should be kept to a minimum and only at higher levels if possible. The club player is the heart of the Association. How do you hope to improve the welfare of clubs and their players? Player welfare has always been a number one priority for me. As chairman, this would continue. I think that club players should have a voice in the organisation and I would propose to have a Players' Forum where two/three players from each club could attend and air their views. Also, as chairman, I would pledge to attend one club meeting for every club in the county in my first year to hear the opinions of grassroots members. I would also pledge to review our strategic plan and in particular to take on board the issues raised at club meetings. I would like the club meetings to be properly structured so that each meeting is meaningful to all. Finally I also think it is paramount that new officers coming into clubs have the opportunity to avail of officer training. I think that if this training were available, more younger members would become interested in taking on officer roles in clubs which would serve to both strengthen and develop the association. If Dublin can contest two All-ireland Minor finals with a number of dual players, why can't Wexford arrive at a satisfactory solution to this problem? How would you propose to tackle this issue? Last year a policy was drawn up by Coiste na nóg Loch Garman to solve the on-going problem with dual players at under-age level in Wexford. This policy needs to be fully implemented and adhered to by all managers and selectors involved with both codes. Under-age players today face huge pressures not only in their sporting endeavours but also in their academic studies. I would hope that common sense would prevail and that managers would put player welfare ahead of their own personal interests. Also, this policy needs to be extended to U-21 players who face many of the same pressures at university level. It is important that no player should feel under pressure to pick one code over the other and it is vital in Wexford that we can field our best possible teams in both codes. Are you satisfied with the quality and quantity of club games played in Wexford from July to August? In 2011, five championship rounds were played in the July/august period. These dates are determined by the successes of our county teams. While I do appreciate that county managers need time to prepare their teams I also realise that it is to the detriment to the club player that so few quality games are played in the summer period. Moving forward to next year, I would hope that there would be an extra round played in the same period. I also see a huge opportunity to revamp our county leagues and make them more attractive for club players. There are many initiatives that could be introduced - for example, providing financial rewards for winning clubs. In the summer period when our county teams are playing, it is vital to the development of club players that they get more quality games in our county league. I also think it would be important to appoint a liaison officer between club officials and county managers. There are four Districts for GAA purposes in Wexford. Have they any relevance any more, and was it a good idea to start playing the majority of championships on a countywide rather than District basis? Under the present system, districts have little relevance but I think that at certain levels they could become more important again. They were set up years ago to make is easier for teams to travel. This issue has once again become very relevant today with the increased costs involved in transportation. I would like to see the lower Junior competitions moving back to a district format as it would bring back parish rivalry and draw bigger crowds to games. It is important that the districts continue to run the local competitions where families have presented perpetual cups over the years and these are still very much appreciated by the districts. In the higher levels, I believe it is vital that the competitions remain on a countywide basis to keep a high level of competition and standard of games. There is also an opportunity there to run a district competition between the four districts to unearth new talent for county teams. Given the current economic climate, how is it proposed to meet the financial outlay on the Ferns development? To meet the financial outlay on the Ferns Development, the county board needs to strictly adhere to the present budgets that are in place. Three years of repayments are left on Wexford Park and after that this money will be freed up to meet the repayments on Ferns. We should definitely continue with the present County Development Draw which has been a huge success for both clubs and county board. There is an opportunity for the GAA to run a lotto which could be structured so as not to interfere with club lotto draws that are presently being run. Capital grants have now re-opened and hopefully we will be able to avail from some funds under this scheme. Commercial sponsorship and funding is also an avenue that could be further explored. There is also an opening for an initiative involving Ladies' football, Camogie, the Wexford GAA Supporters' Club and Club Wexford. To successfully meet the financial demands on Ferns, the County Board will need help and support from all the organisations under the GAA umbrella. If you are elected, will there be quarterly financial reports prepared for County Board meetings, and will the exact financial position be outlined at every monthly meeting? As Chairman I would ensure that a quarterly financial report be prepared and made available to County Board meetings in conjunction with the County Board Treasurer and Accountant. I would also like to see monthly reports being presented at every County Board meeting regarding income and expenditure. A financial plan needs to be drawn up by the Accountant and Treasurer in conjunction with the Finance Committee and presented to county board at the February meeting so that a clear financial plan for the year is outlined. The Finance Committee would monitor and evaluate the financial plan and ensure it is kept on track for the year. Do you feel we are getting value for money on the expenditure on inter-county teams? This is a difficult question to answer without defining exactly what is 'getting value for money'. Is it success? Is it squad development over a period of time? Is it going further in a competition than a previous year? It has been very expensive to operate county teams in the past number of years due to the professional level that is now expected in the modern game. Every manager prepares their team to the best of their ability with the hope of succeeding and without the intention of overspending. Wexford county board has team budgets in place, which are agreed to by the managers at the start of the year and these need to be adhered to. In 2009, €650,000 was spent on county teams while in 2010 this was reduced to €608,000. This was due to strict budgeting and input and agreement by players and managers. Fundraising by the panels is an avenue that can be explored for access to extra funds but it must be run through the proper channels. Player welfare is of crucial importance and the County Board strives to take care of them as best we can within our budgets. Why should the clubs of Wexford elect you as Chairman on December 12? In the first instance we need change, not only of personnel but more importantly of direction. We are dominated by personalities and not by policy. Wexford was always most effective on, and off, the playing field, when the county was directed, and controlled, by the clubs via the county board. This principle is sacrosanct to me, and written clearly into the Official Guide, yet the majority of clubs express the view that the decision-making process has been taken from their control and vested in the hands of a small minority of officers and paid officials. That is not the GAA way of doing things and must be challenged, and changed, from January 2012 onwards. My undertaking is to involve the clubs in the decisionmaking process via a pre-planned district forum, county forum and county board and together we will lay out a pathway from 2012 to 2014 which puts the club, players and games top of the agenda and which has at its core the objective of improving club and county performance. What do you see as the single biggest challenge facing the G.A.A. in Wexford? Putting in place a strategy which sets out a three-year vision, and targets, by which we will achieve it. The core of this strategy must be designing and sustaining fixtures/games and club coaching models which enable us compete at the highest level in both codes simultaneously and which put Wexford clubs at an advantage when they qualify to compete in Leinster club championship fixtures. We simply have to match the training, coaching and games volume of the best football and hurling clubs/counties and make that our key target for club development in the period 2012-2014. Secondly a realistic, transparent and shared assessment of our financial difficulties is an immediate challenge to be faced and solutions agreed by February 2012. This will not be easy and will require leadership to lay out a three-year programme to bring finances under control. Delaying this matter any further must be avoided as the consequences will be severe and long term. Given the growing number of paid employees in the G.A.A., appreciation for the role of the volunteer is fast diminishing. Would you agree? Yes. This is all too evident for the past few years. The reality is that we are a volunteer-led organisation which, according to our own rules, requires policy decisions to be taken by the volunteer committee for implementation by the full time or appointed staff. To me this principle is non-negotiable and must be underpinned by a strong and united management committee leading by example. Collective responsibilities, and accountability, are traditional GAA values which have proven successful in the past and are absolutely necessary to deal with the challenges ahead. All lead functions should be assigned to elected officers and implemented under their supervision. The very essence of the volunteer system is that we account to the clubs at convention and only they have the authority to elect or remove us. It is my view that when current contractual time frames expire we should return to electing an honorary county secretary and if necessary supporting this by the appointment of an administrator reporting to the voluntary officer. This I believe is the best system to promote the long-term interests of the association and our hard-working employees on whom we depend. The club player is the heart of the Association. How do you hope to improve the welfare of clubs and their players? The most important issue is fixture reform. We have made significant progress in recent years but the 'feast or famine scenario' continues to act as negative pressure on club scheduling, and management. The effect on players in terms of burn-out and fatigue, is well documented. Dual clubs are particularly hit by this issue. The CCCC has shown leadership and must be encouraged to drive on with reform until we reach a stage where club players are active during the full summer peak period and the tradition of jamming our season into a tight time frame is discontinued. Secondly we have to recognise the financial strain placed on clubs vis a vis the costs of coaching, training and team preparation. This can be alleviated by centrally-funded Level 1 coaching courses and the provision of training and coaching services from our full-time coaches at times which suit the club activity. These are serious issues for club players and must be addressed. If Dublin can contest two All-ireland Minor finals with a number of dual players, why can't Wexford arrive at a satisfactory solution to this problem? How would you propose to tackle this issue? Firstly by goodwill, generosity and recognition of the equal status of both codes in everything we do. Any bias in coaching, or development squad preparation, must be removed in 2012 by equalising the coaching structure to recognise both codes equally and to finally eradicate the notion that either code is responsible for the other's lack of success. Secondly we need to enforce the Dual Player Policy put through by Coiste na nog in 2011 which was issued widely for consultation and finally adopted as formal policy by all concerned including team mentors. A genuine attempt to work the policy in 2012 will put this issue away finally and enable players make the choice which suits them best. Finally I have always held the view that Minor should be regarded as a development path for U-21 and that Wexford has a better chance at U-21 than any other grade. The adoption of this principle and the removal of the obsession with winning Minor would go a long way to changing the current mindset. Either way the die is cast on this issue and there will be no deviation from the Dual Player Policy and that is final! Are you satisified with the quality and quantity of club games played in Wexford from July to August? No. Each year this issue arises and gets deferred. The CCCC are making good progress and Derek Kent has been radical in his approach but support from the clubs is vital if real reform is to happen. Poor quality games also lead to poor attendances. This issue must be put top of the agenda and dealt with. A long period of inactivity followed by non-stop fixtures is a recipe for trouble for players, clubs and administrators. I have seen at first hand the effect on U-18 players trying to match multiple adult fixtures in a seven-day period, while a mid-summer time frame has expired with little or no activity except under-age games. We simply have to provide regular games in a proper rotation during the peak summer period. We should also ensure that GAA rules on the development of an annual charter, which clearly stipulates the fixtures and games schedule, be signed by the respective county team managers and then enforced by the Management Committee. The application of the nine-day rule once enforced will soon lead to acceptance and become the norm. There are four Districts for G.A.A. purposes in Wexford. Have they any relevance any more, and was it a good idea to start playing the majority of championships on a countywide rather than District basis? Taking control from the districts to a central position has cost us in terms of local democracy but the reasons for the original change were understandable as clubs wanted to compete on a countywide basis. Whether we return to the original system is a matter for debate, but I feel there is a definite case to be made for district involvement in Junior competitions, new initiatives such as small-side competitions during peak summer periods and increasing games by organising winter indoor small-sided competitions. There is also a major role for district committees in organising an annual club forum in tandem with the district AGM and oversight of Isolated Player initiatives, Level 1 coaching roll-out and full-time/part-time coaching support to clubs. Any attempt to bring about a significant increase in games and player activity will have to include the role of the district officers in the Strategic Plan as otherwise it will be unwieldy and will fail at the first hurdle. Given the current economic climate, how is it proposed to meet the financial outlay on the Ferns development? Firstly there are two scenarios we must avoid - imposing a levy on clubs or passing this burden onto a future generation. The challenge is serious and will now be inherited by the incoming chairman. We must firstly draw a line under the discussion on the project and start to make hard business decisions to best serve our own needs. The factual position is that the land cannot be sold, or handed back, thus a scaled and well-managed project to turn it into a beneficial asset, with revenue potential, is our only option. This must only be achieved through restricting expenditure to grants available from third parties. The big issue is the debt burden which in the first instance must be brought into our annual expenditure balance when measured against income, and the shortfall made up from a series of expenditure cuts and income generation rather than overdraft access. The Strategic Plan should scale this over a four-year period aiming to have the debt repayment burden within a manageable expenditure balance by Convention 2015. The possibility of using grant funding for short-term interest reduction on the loan should also be considered. The bottom line is that the money was borrowed and now must be repaid! Sensible decisions in January 2012 could save us between €200,000 to €500,000 in interest payments over 15 years. If you are elected, will there be quarterly financial reports prepared for County Board meetings, and will the exact financial position be outlined at every monthly meeting? Yes. The first stage is a detailed analysis of our current position followed by the drafting of a 3-year strategic plan to eliminate any shortfall having taken fully into account all outgoings including capital repayments. Our income and expenditure, under a number of headings, occur sporadically throughout the year and must be predicted across a 12-month cycle to allow for real assessment, and intervention, at any given time. This should start prior to convention at the commencement of our financial year. The management committee is collectively responsible to the county board for finance and this can only be met by producing regular financial reports which measure predicted cash flow movements against those in the Strategic Plan and annual budget. Collective financial responsibility is a basic ethos of the GAA and there can be no room, or tolerance, for any deviation in this regard. These are basic business practices and the time has arrived for these matters to be dealt with in a manner which all reasonable people regard as prudent. Do you feel we are getting value for money on the expenditure on inter-county teams? Yes. The money expended our county panels, when measured against other counties, is reasonable and a necessary ongoing investment. The teams are our shop window and main marketing tool and have already made significant sacrifices in terms of reductions and cutbacks. The effort put in by players is huge and reflects the real amateur nature of their contribution to the GAA and county. The current recession is putting pressure on this arrangement as players struggle more and more on the financial front either due to unemployment or high college costs. We should all be required to operate under the same financial restrictions placed on our county teams. Personally I feel we could do more to assist our young players get employment, or educational grants, and thus allow them to train and play in a stress-free atmosphere. The period 2012-2014 should be all about players, preparation and performance. Why should the clubs of Wexford elect you as Chairman on December 12? Being involved in many roles at County Board level for the last 19 years has given me invaluable experience which will be of huge benefit in my work of bringing Wexford GAA forward. Being chairman of my own club for 14 years gave me an acute and in-depth understanding of how local clubs function. I was responsible, as Club Chairman, for a €600,000 club development, an experience which served to develop my management skills, particularly in relation to decision-making and driving projects forward. As Chairman I would make a huge effort to create an excellent working relationship between county board officers and club officials as I see this as being essential for the proper functioning of county board. Finally I would place immense importance on the development of Gaelic football and hurling. I am equally interested in the progress of both games and would strive to ensure that both codes would be developed to the highest possible standard. What do you see as the single biggest challenge facing the GAA in Wexford? As with every other voluntary organisation in Ireland, the biggest challenge facing the GAA in Wexford is finance. The GAA depends on its members and supporters for its income and in these trying financial times is suffering badly. The lack of funds available to the County Board has and will continue to have a detrimental effect on the coaching and development of young players for our county teams. Of course, the economic downturn is affecting local clubs as well as County Board. At local level, fundraising is a constant necessary part of club life and is, in many cases, an ongoing problem for club members. A further knock-on effect of the financial crisis is that many of our members have to go abroad in search for employment resulting in a huge reduction of playing members in clubs. This has already affected the standards of playing in both codes and will continue to do so. Given the growing number of paid employees in the GAA, appreciation for the role of the volunteer is fast diminishing. Would you agree? I agree that the appreciation for volunteers is diminishing but as chairman I would ensure that the importance be placed back on volunteers. The GAA has become the effective organisation it is today through the hard work and dedication of people who were interested in the development of the games. Volunteers were and still are the core of the organisation and should always be recognised for their work and supported as much as possible. The Wexford GAA strategic plan outlines the importance of our amateur status but it is a constant challenge for the Association to ensure the balance between paid full-time officials and the work of volunteers. I do agree that in the modern organisation there is a place for paid employees due to the expansion and nationwide aspect of the games but these should be kept to a minimum and only at higher levels if possible. The club player is the heart of the Association. How do you hope to improve the welfare of clubs and their players? Player welfare has always been a number one priority for me. As chairman, this would continue. I think that club players should have a voice in the organisation and I would propose to have a Players' Forum where two/three players from each club could attend and air their views. Also, as chairman, I would pledge to attend one club meeting for every club in the county in my first year to hear the opinions of grassroots members. I would also pledge to review our strategic plan and in particular to take on board the issues raised at club meetings. I would like the club meetings to be properly structured so that each meeting is meaningful to all. Finally I also think it is paramount that new officers coming into clubs have the opportunity to avail of officer training. I think that if this training were available, more younger members would become interested in taking on officer roles in clubs which would serve to both strengthen and develop the association. If Dublin can contest two All-ireland Minor finals with a number of dual players, why can't Wexford arrive at a satisfactory solution to this problem? How would you propose to tackle this issue? Last year a policy was drawn up by Coiste na nóg Loch Garman to solve the on-going problem with dual players at under-age level in Wexford. This policy needs to be fully implemented and adhered to by all managers and selectors involved with both codes. Under-age players today face huge pressures not only in their sporting endeavours but also in their academic studies. I would hope that common sense would prevail and that managers would put player welfare ahead of their own personal interests. Also, this policy needs to be extended to U-21 players who face many of the same pressures at university level. It is important that no player should feel under pressure to pick one code over the other and it is vital in Wexford that we can field our best possible teams in both codes. Are you satisfied with the quality and quantity of club games played in Wexford from July to August? In 2011, five championship rounds were played in the July/august period. These dates are determined by the successes of our county teams. While I do appreciate that county managers need time to prepare their teams I also realise that it is to the detriment to the club player that so few quality games are played in the summer period. Moving forward to next year, I would hope that there would be an extra round played in the same period. I also see a huge opportunity to revamp our county leagues and make them more attractive for club players. There are many initiatives that could be introduced - for example, providing financial rewards for winning clubs. In the summer period when our county teams are playing, it is vital to the development of club players that they get more quality games in our county league. I also think it would be important to appoint a liaison officer between club officials and county managers. There are four Districts for GAA purposes in Wexford. Have they any relevance any more, and was it a good idea to start playing the majority of championships on a countywide rather than District basis? Under the present system, districts have little relevance but I think that at certain levels they could become more important again. They were set up years ago to make is easier for teams to travel. This issue has once again become very relevant today with the increased costs involved in transportation. I would like to see the lower Junior competitions moving back to a district format as it would bring back parish rivalry and draw bigger crowds to games. It is important that the districts continue to run the local competitions where families have presented perpetual cups over the years and these are still very much appreciated by the districts. In the higher levels, I believe it is vital that the competitions remain on a countywide basis to keep a high level of competition and standard of games. There is also an opportunity there to run a district competition between the four districts to unearth new talent for county teams. Given the current economic climate, how is it proposed to meet the financial outlay on the Ferns development? To meet the financial outlay on the Ferns Development, the county board needs to strictly adhere to the present budgets that are in place. Three years of repayments are left on Wexford Park and after that this money will be freed up to meet the repayments on Ferns. We should definitely continue with the present County Development Draw which has been a huge success for both clubs and county board. There is an opportunity for the GAA to run a lotto which could be structured so as not to interfere with club lotto draws that are presently being run. Capital grants have now re-opened and hopefully we will be able to avail from some funds under this scheme. Commercial sponsorship and funding is also an avenue that could be further explored. There is also an opening for an initiative involving Ladies' football, Camogie, the Wexford GAA Supporters' Club and Club Wexford. To successfully meet the financial demands on Ferns, the County Board will need help and support from all the organisations under the GAA umbrella. If you are elected, will there be quarterly financial reports prepared for County Board meetings, and will the exact financial position be outlined at every monthly meeting? As Chairman I would ensure that a quarterly financial report be prepared and made available to County Board meetings in conjunction with the County Board Treasurer and Accountant. I would also like to see monthly reports being presented at every County Board meeting regarding income and expenditure. A financial plan needs to be drawn up by the Accountant and Treasurer in conjunction with the Finance Committee and presented to county board at the February meeting so that a clear financial plan for the year is outlined. The Finance Committee would monitor and evaluate the financial plan and ensure it is kept on track for the year. Do you feel we are getting value for money on the expenditure on inter-county teams? This is a difficult question to answer without defining exactly what is 'getting value for money'. Is it success? Is it squad development over a period of time? Is it going further in a competition than a previous year? It has been very expensive to operate county teams in the past number of years due to the professional level that is now expected in the modern game. Every manager prepares their team to the best of their ability with the hope of succeeding and without the intention of overspending. Wexford county board has team budgets in place, which are agreed to by the managers at the start of the year and these need to be adhered to. In 2009, €650,000 was spent on county teams while in 2010 this was reduced to €608,000. This was due to strict budgeting and input and agreement by players and managers. Fundraising by the panels is an avenue that can be explored for access to extra funds but it must be run through the proper channels. Player welfare is of crucial importance and the County Board strives to take care of them as best we can within our budgets. 
