sport gaa
{ Lisa Jewell 
    July 06 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/mothers-babies/going-gaa-gaa-26548885.html }
Whether it's Gaelic football, hurling, camogie or handball, children all over the country are getting active, learning about teamwork and finding a passion for our national sports Now celebrating its 125th anniversary, the GAA has been an influential force in Irish communities, and particularly in the lives of young people, for a long time. In fact, it's never been so popular amongst children and teens, and is the largest sports organisation within the primary education system in Ireland. There are numerous benefits to children who play Gaelic, handball, camogie and hurling including health, developmental and social benefits. Sinéad Gormley is mum to Jennifer (10), Glenn (eight) and Ross (two). Both Jennifer and Glenn are enthusiastic hurlers and even little Ross has his own hurley that he plays with in the garden alongside his siblings. It's not difficult to see where their passion for the sport comes from as Sinéad, who is from Clara in Co Kilkenny, played camogie for 16 years. On the other hand, her husband Pat is more of a motor sports fan. "I'm a big Kilkenny follower and I love hurling," says Sinéad. "I played camogie from the age of 10 until I was around 26 and gave it up the year before Jennifer was born.  Strong "Years ago, camogie wasn't as strong as it is today but a few areas built up strong teams and now every parish has a camogie team. I found that it was a great way to get together -- some of the girls who were working in Dublin would still come down at weekends to play matches." Nowadays, GAA plays a large part in the Gormley family's activities. Both Jennifer and Glenn play for their school teams and for their local club. "We're extremely lucky with our local club, Clara Hurling Club, as they're very proactive with the young members. They do actually take them from a young age." In school, both children started learning to play the sport when they were in junior infants. "They only play ground hurling when they start and they're not allowed to rise the ball," says Sinéad. "It's great for younger age groups because no child feels like they can't do it." Jennifer enjoys the social aspect to playing on two teams. "You become better friends and you meet new people as well," she says. "We do training in school in both breaks and I do training with the hurling club once a week." Even though the schoolgirl has seasonal asthma, it doesn't hold her back from playing sport. And while her brother Glann occasionally plays a bit of Gaelic football, his heart is definitely with the rest of the Kilkenny supporters -- firmly set on hurling. "You get to meet new friends and you get to work together," he says. Both Glenn and Jennifer say they prefer to be outside playing hurling rather than playing indoors -- even in the wintertime. During their summer holidays, they will both be taking part in the VHI GAA Cúl Camp at their local club. "It's great to see them out and about," says Sinéad. "I think any parent likes to see a child out running rather than in playing computer games. And it's good that they have an interest in being fit and going to training. "I think it's also a good thing for their confidence -- a lot of their matches would be draws or a team might win by a point or lose by a point. They're not very competitive but it's still good for kids to know that they won a point or that they stopped a goal. It's good for them to know that they can do it." Having kids involved in GAA is also a great way for parents to get together -- especially in more rural areas. "When we drop off the kids, we can either stay there or come home again. Often the mums might walk the pitch and get a bit of exercise. It is a social thing because when you're in the country, the GAA club is a meeting point for a lot of parents." GAA is also a community pursuit in the village of Corofin, Co Galway. The club there is an important force in Galway football and the Broderick family are heavily involved in playing the sport. First up is dad Richard who coaches the U-10 team, which his son Eoin plays for. Oldest son Stephen plays with the U-16s at school and middle son Alan plays for the U-12s. Alan plays left corner back and while he also plays soccer and hurling, he says Gaelic football is his favourite pastime. "We're all best friends on the team and nobody minds if someone makes a mistake as we're all on the same side," he says. "I play football in most of my spare time and my mum and dad take us to all of the big games." Richard, who played club football growing up, says he got into coaching because he feels it's important for parents to be involved in their kids' activities. "It keeps me young at heart and it's probably good for my health too as I do a bit of running with them," he says. "I think I'm more in tune with the kids from doing the coaching too." He says the health benefits for youngsters are in abundance. "Sports are good for the brain and the body and I certainly think that obesity has become a big issue nowadays. Playing GAA helps keep kids trimmer. I think that they eat more healthily as well when they are exercising." Alan (11) and Eoin (nine) are attending their local VHI GAA Cúl Camp this month and say they enjoy the time to focus on their skills. "We got to meet some of the famous GAA players last year and were able to ask them questions," says Eoin. "It's really good fun learning new skills too." One reassuring point for parents is that safety is taken more seriously in GAA sports these days. "They're taught the skills so that they can avoid getting injured or hurt," says Sinéad Gormley. "Obviously they all have to wear helmets for hurling. I remember a few years ago when I was playing hurling, there were girls who got knocked in the face and thankfully helmets have reduced all that. "It's much safer nowadays, which is good for parents' peace of mind." 
