sport gaa
{  
    May 25 2008 03:53 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/cullen-has-to-loosen-gaas-grip-on-funding-26448839.html }
Martin Cullen, the Minister for Sport, has reached the most dangerous point of his political career. He is one reshuffle away from the oblivion of the back benches and has few opportunities to redeem himself. Unless he manages to achieve something quickly, and quite visibly, he will always be remembered as the man who spent €50m on electronic voting machines that didn't work. He should be delighted, therefore, that the Economic and Social Research Institute has given him the tools to both do his job and make a difference. The ESRI is best known for its regular pronouncements on the Irish economy (we're all doomed in the short term, but the medium term is fine, so long as the Government actually governs) but its interests are much broader. Last week it delivered its latest thinking on sports policy in Ireland and its report gives Cullen an opportunity to make a lasting impact. Critically, the report allows Cullen ask a few very basic questions: what is the objective of his Government's policy on sport? Why is public money given to sports organisations and what do we expect in return? The answer to the first question will determine whether Cullen actually takes this opportunity to make a name for himself. For the moment, it seems Government policy is more about protecting the existing dominance of the GAA within the sporting world -- and within society -- rather than about increasing overall participation in sport. If that is the policy, then Cullen should explain it and defend it. He could argue, perhaps, that the GAA's value within the community means that it deserves disproportionate funding. He could say that the GAA remains hugely popular, that it draws on and stimulates extraordinary levels of volunteerism in our communities and that it plays an important role in fostering civic nationalism. All fine sentiments, no doubt, but they are the basis for a social policy, not a sports policy. If Cullen wants to be different, he should recognise that the best policies are those that are based on evidence, and the ESRI provides plenty. The evidence suggests that policy should be directed at encouraging as many people as possible to play sport because it is good for the health of the nation, and by extension the health of the economy. Participation needs to be encouraged across all social groups and both genders: young girls do not get the same opportunities as boys to play sport and participation is strongest in the wealthier sections of society. On its current trajectory, sport will actually deepen the divide in society because the health benefits that flow from participation will accrue to those who are already at an advantage. Public money, therefore, should flow to those sports that people are choosing to play, rather than to those sports that have the organisational ability to get their hands on it. Part of the reason that the GAA gets so much public money is that the method of distributing it through the Sports Capital Programme is so complex. Try filling out a grant application and you'll understand the hoops that have to be negotiated, and you'll understand, too, why the system is so biased towards those that already have money and organisation. The key change, though, must come from Cullen. He should articulate a new sports policy that sets participation as its primary objective. Public money should flow to those sports that are growing in popularity -- like swimming, soccer, running, cycling, golf -- and he should stop spending public money on yet more changing rooms and clubhouses for every GAA club in the land. Any change in policy will provoke a fierce backlash from the GAA -- it launched a pre-emptive strike against the ESRI last week and Nickey Brennan (pictured), the president, will be mobilising his forces for an even more determined counter-attack in the weeks ahead. Cullen, though, should be swayed by the evidence and not by the emotion. Despite getting so much public money and despite its exceptional volunteers, the GAA has lost ground relative to other sports that are under-funded and which struggle for volunteer support. The answer, clearly, is to spend the public's money on the sports that the public wants to participate in, and to do so in imaginative ways that make it possible for everyone to get involved. 
