sport gaa
{  
    April 15 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/violence-in-sport-now-a-growing-problem-for-all-codes-26265690.html }
ON THE schemozzle front there have been some spectacular sporting flare-ups already this season. Remember the track-suited sub who ran in and promptly broke an opponent's nose with a swift punch before being pursued around a pitch by several incensed opponents in a bizarre scene that eventually sparked a mass brawl that rumbled on down through the tunnel? Then there was the fella who lost the head completely when he was insulted by supporters, hopping into the crowd and promptly clocking one of them to earn a lifetime ban. And what about that mass brawl in a major final that saw three sent off, two yellow-carded and another retrospectively banned for three weeks for punching an opponent? Those of the anti-GAA persuasion who did not know the details might hear of these and assume "the mad GAA boggers are at it again." All of the above does sound exactly like the deplorable behaviour that earns the GAA deserved opprobrium, but, in these instances, such an assumption would be very wrong. All three of these incidents happened at the elite, multi-million euro, showcase end of soccer and rugby. You don't get much more slicker marketing machines than Champions League soccer or European Cup rugby, yet the best PR spin in the world could not limit the damage done by Valencia's David Navarra's 'Madness at Mastella' or Trevor Brennan's moment of insanity in Toulouse, not to mention the outlandish Arsenal/Chelsea brawl that disgraced the Carling Cup Final. Increasingly high-profile violent incidents in soccer and rugby's marquee events - from Zidane's head-butt to O'Driscoll's spearing and, most recently O'Gara's 'Chokegate' - are increasingly overshadowing the games they occurred in and it is becoming patently clear that the GAA can no longer be accused of having a monopoly on mindless thuggery. Indeed, considering that premier soccer and rugby are played by highly-paid, fulltime professionals who prepare in minute detail for every game, it may well be time to ask whether the GAA's bad rep, at its elite level at least, is somewhat disproportionate and unfair. And GAA players, at least, seem to share a sporting kinship that will always be more than mercenary. Organisers Hence, unlike Liverpool's Craig Bellamy - christened 'the nutter with the putter' thanks to the tabloids - they are not likely to take a Big Bertha to their teammate's shins when they have an argument over the karaoke machine, nor then subsequently appear to glorify such insanity by miming it in their macho goal celebrations. Seven months ago it was actually the latest International Rules fracas that first prompted Professor Conal Hooper of UCD's Centre for Sports Studies to think about the merits of organising a seminar examining the growing trend of violence in sport. But, as he freely admits, major and repetitive flashpoints in soccer and rugby have since superseded that and created a hotter and more wide-reaching debate, which will be held in a half-day conference in Belfield on April 18. Two of the organisers have very different perspectives. Hooper's family are steeped in Irish soccer. His grandfather was President of the FAI and he is currently team doctor for the Irish U21s. As well as his anatomy specialism and being the first Director of UCD's Centre for Sports Studies, Hooper is also the Chief Medical Officer for the FAI, a role which saw him treat 50 casualties, including three fractured skulls, on a black night in Lansdowne when England last visited. But after witnessing hooliganism on the terraces he admits to being shocked now by the growing violence on the pitches of international and Premiership soccer. "If there was deliberate violence in soccer before, and there was many a known 'dirty player', it was in the over-the-ball, dangerous tackle, studs up or stuff like that," Hooper notes. "Fisticuffs were extremely rare in soccer, you rarely got a melee but not anymore." He sees more violence in rugby now also and believes that is due to it going professional. "Rugby, previously, was much more of a stop-start game but in the professional era, live play goes on so much longer," Hooper observes. "You can have 12 to 15 phases of possession and that all adds to the intensity of the game and of those involved." Someone who believes rugby was always inherently violent and is actually cleaning up at one level is Hooper's colleague Dr John Shuttleworth, a sports scientist who joined UCD last November with a very different sporting backround. A former international rugby referee, he previously worked in the Southern Hemisphere where he closely observed the oval game. "The introduction of slow-motion television and 'citing' - first in New Zealand in the late 1980s, in a provincial match involving Otago - means that rugby is one of cleanest international sports now," Shuttleworth argues. He says that previously Mauro Bergamasco, who missed Italy's Six Nations match against Ireland because of a four-week ban for punching Stephen Jones, might not have been banned at all. "Ten years ago if a flanker punched someone in a ruck or line-out, it could have been ignored and the game would have gone on but not anymore," he says. "There's also far less stamping incidents because TV replays capture so much and people are being caught and punished." Pressure However, one area of rugby he fears for is at underage level. "I can't speak about Ireland but I know that in South Wales referees are refusing to do U19 games now. There is so much pressure on schools' players to achieve victory, whether from coaches or parents, and because they are young players, not very experienced, that results in ill-discipline. "Even at schools level in England and Wales now, there are so many aspirations now, to become professional rugby players as a career, that young boys are under tremendous pressure to win." Shuttleworth, who, incidentally, believes Ronan O'Gara was choked, sees increasing levels of deliberate violence creeping into all sports. But one thing that has surprised him is the relative lack of violence in hurling. "They carry sticks, it is incredibly quick and skilful and physical so there is huge potential there but from what I've seen of it there is very little violence and that amazed me," he admits. "To me it looks a lot like lacrosse which, if you've ever seen it, can be a very violent sport but hurlers appear to rarely get hit. Players mostly appear to get hand injuries, which is very telling." Just why sport is becoming more violent is a debate that will run and run. Hooper believes a lot is down to the size and fitness of the players now involved, the hype surrounding competitions and the 'win at all costs' mentality. He does not believe the vast wealth at stake in many sports now is a major factor. "If so how can you explain violence in the GAA?" he muses. There was certainly a worrying level of violence in last autumn's second International Rules Test and Irish team manager Seán Boylan, as well as GAA President Nickey Brennan, are among the guest speakers at UCD's upcoming seminar, as well as referees and experts in growing injury-rates and the legal area. It is a conference that may, some years ago, have been in danger of lapsing into simply 'GAA-bashing' but not anymore, and that is the big worry for athletes, coaches and administrators. Hooper says: "Some of the things now taking place on sports fields would be common assault outside it. Apart from the legal ramifications - and there are increasing incidents of civil cases - that could have serious long-term effects because violence in sport will surely affect participation rates and that is the last thing we need right now with so much concern over health and obesity levels." The 'Violence in Sport - A Growing Problem' seminar takes place in UCD this Wednesday, April 18. Contact 01-7163011 for further details. 
