sport gaa
{  
    March 02 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/changing-times-as-candidates-register-no-objections-to-sharing-their-theatre-of-dreams-with-other-codes--26053672.html }
Seamus Aldridge (Kildare) "The GAA has always been prepared to play its part in promoting the national interest and opening up Croke Park falls into that category. "We have got to look not just to the immediate future but to the next decade and the changes and challenges which all sports bodies will face. "The GAA could promote its own sports by renting a magnificent stadium like Croke Park to others because obviously there would be rent revenue involved, which I would like to see spent on coaching and games promotion. I would have no difficulty in doing a deal on a match-by-match basis. "I have to say I would prefer to see sports which represented a 32-county Ireland played in Croke Park. I am also surprised that the FAI signed anything in relation to Euro 2008 without having a ground of their own. "My one worry about renting Croke Park to others would be that the pitch mightn't be able to stand up to it but if the experts can guarantee us that this is not a problem, I feel we could use the stadium not only for our own games but also to promote our image while using the rent revenue to further our own games." Albert Fallon (Longford) "I totally support the GAA being a party to the application to co-host the European soccer championships in 2008. It has brought huge goodwill from the general sporting public. "Besides, it's the first time that we were asked to make a gesture regarding the use of Croke Park and seeing that it came from Government, it was right to respond the way we did. "Anything that helps boost the general economy and tourism in this country should be supported and the GAA have done that this week. We should be bold and positive about our achievement in redeveloping Croke Park. "Renting Croke Park would bring in much needed revenue, which is vitally important at time when costs everywhere are soaring. "Obviously, it's not on the agenda until all the work is completed but if we can get terms which are both convenient and practical, then opening up Croke Park is a viable option. "Of course, it may not be necessary because other organisations are pushing for Stadium Ireland to be built but I certainly think that we should give Central Council the power to decide on the use of Croke Park. "Things have changed dramatically in five years and the GAA have shown themselves to be very adaptable to new challenges." Sean Kelly (Kerry) "I have no ideological hang-ups about making Croke Park available to other sports in certain circumstances. However, guarantees would have to put in place to ensure that local GAA grounds were retained for our own exclusive use. "The Croke Park scene is different. It is a major asset, one which the GAA can be very proud of. It would have to be available at all times for hurling and football but there are times when it's not required so there is a certain logic in renting it to other sports for specific events. "However, the GAA couldn't even think about renting Croke Park without driving a very hard bargain. We're talking pure business here. If we have an asset which others are anxious to use, then they would have to pay well for the privilege. The financial demands on the GAA are increasing all the time and if we can use the rent from Croke Park to fund areas of activity, it makes sense to avail of it. "Of course, it's a matter for Congress to decide in the first instance whether to transfer the power to decide on the use of Croke Park over to Central Council." PJ McGrath (Mayo) "It's a decision for the future because the redevelopment work in Croke Park isn't completed but, as a general principle, I wouldn't have any problem with playing other sports in Croke Park, provided they didn't in any way interfere with our own games. "When it's finished, Croke Park will be totally different stadium to the one which was demolished and the requirements in terms of running it won't be the same either, which is something we have to be very conscious of. "It's a very big issue, one which the GAA should and will consider very carefully, starting at Congress when we debate whether to give Central Council the power to decide on the use of Croke Park. "Obviously finance would be a key factor in any decision to open up Croke Park. We would need to get a very good deal and there can be no question of coming under pressure to open the stadium for a minimal return. "That's an area that the stadium management team could advise us on as it's very important. "There is also the question of whether the Croke Park surface could take extra games. If it could and we can get big revenue, then opening up has its attractions." Noel Walsh (Clare) "It's simple really. No sporting body can afford to spend Euro250m on redeveloping a massive stadium and then leave it idle for so long. "Croke Park is used regularly for five months from May to September and is totally idle from late September to St Patrick's Day at the very time when the rugby season is at its busiest. There are also international soccer matches played in that period. "Playing other sports in Croke Park during the winter would give the stadium a great lift. It would also generate much needed revenue. Also, playing other sports in Croke Park, including some of the Euro 2008 games, would show the GAA in a very positive light, not just at home but overseas too. We have built a great stadium let's not hide it. Let's be bold and show it off to the world. "It's a great chance to prove how imaginative and far-sighted the GAA were when we went ahead with the redevelopment at a time when other organisations were doing nothing. "The GAA have nothing to fear. Croke Park is our stadium so let's use it for our own games and, when we're not using it, rent it to others on a highly controlled basis." 
