sport gaa
{  
    June 22 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27363354.html }
BEALE GAA: Beale Seniors were away to Keel in Round 7 of the County League on Saturday June 12th.  Beale came out winners on the day 2-7 to 11pts despite ending the second half with only 14 players.  Belae Seniors are away to Killgarvan in Round 8 of the County League on Sat next June 25th. Beale Juniors are away to Listowel C on Tuesday next July 2nd.TIR NA NOG: Tir na nOg BEALE GAA: Beale Seniors were away to Keel in Round 7 of the County League on Saturday June 12th. Beale came out winners on the day 2-7 to 11pts despite ending the second half with only 14 players. Belae Seniors are away to Killgarvan in Round 8 of the County League on Sat next June 25th. Beale Juniors are away to Listowel C on Tuesday next July 2nd. TIR NA NOG: Tir na nOg Summer Camp will run as follows: 10am to 1pm: Preschool age children will be cared for and entertained by suitably qualified childcare staff in safe surroundings. Activities include free play, puzzles and jigsaws, painting and play dough, water and sand play and use of the big hall for large activities and the trampoline. ?5 per hour or ?12.50 per session. Booking is essential as spaces are limited 2pm to 6pm: Children of 3 to 12 years are welcome to join this Summer Schedule. The children will be divided into groups depending on their age, again being supervised by highly qualified and experienced staff. The younger group will be entertained as above and the older children‚s activities will also include arts and crafts, board games, table tennis, football and pool, indoor soccer, basketball and other sports in the big hall as well as the trampoline. ?5 per hour or ?16 per session. Again, booking is essential. Both services will run throughout the months of July and August and family and weekly rates apply. Our abseil fundraiser went very well despite the bad weather and we want to thank all those who participated. We will organise another day for those who couldnt abseil on the day. We will be having our bag pack soon, so we need all those parents out there who use the service to choose a time to suit them. Please help us out. The Kids Club on a Sunday is now finished for the Summer months and will start again after the holidays. OPEN AIR MASS: As this is the Marian year, an open air mass is being organised for Doon Road. Everyone is welcome to celebrate this great event, as the residents of Marian Crescent are 50 years in their homes this year. It would be good to have all the people that grew up in Doon back for this special occasion. Mass will be on at 8.30, Friday evening, July 29. Afterwards the celebrations will continue. A group of residents will be calling to everyone for a small donation as a canopy is being bought. Food music and refreshments will be provided on the night. Looking forward to seeing everyone there. CONGRATULATIONS to John O’ Donovan who has been appointed as Principal of St. Joseph’s Secondary School and to Ms Anne Cummins who has been appointed as Vice Principal. They fill the vacancies created by the retirement of John Atkins and Nial Horgan. BUSES - Car parking spaces in the town have always been a problem. This is now being exacerbated by the parking of Tour buses in Church Road & Cliff Road. At Vigil Mass time on Sat night Church Rd is now a disaster. PLAYGROUND - “Can we have our old Playground back please” is the very reasonable cry from local & visiting children. Hopefully this one will not be the total letdown the one at the back of Lartigue Rd is. RESULTS: Our Seniors had a convincing win over Listry in the County League. This was a fine team performance with all players giving their all. The centre field won good possession and the forwards made good use of any ball that came their way. The backs defended very well forcing Listry to kick from long range. Joseph Enright putting in a man of the match performance. This result now means Ballydonoghue go top of Div 5. The one criticism that could be made was our tendency to give away easy frees in scoreable positions. Final score Ballydonoghue (3-11) Listry (0-10) Scores; K.Flavin (0-3) F.O'Connor (1-2) E.Diggins (0-3) P O'Connor (0-2) M Scanlon (1-0) E O'Sullivan (1-0) P Bunyan (0-1). The Juniors played Clounmacon for the second time in a week. This time in the N.K.L. and we again came out on top with two points to spare. We led by two points at half time thanks to a very well worked goal. But by midway through the second half Clounmacon had gained a two point advantage. However with the introduction of some fresh legs the game began to turn in our favour. Our forwards began to find their range and had a three point lead with five minutes remaining. Clounmacon managed one more point and were denied an almost certain goal in the final minutes thanks to a great block down by Joseph Enright. U-14's Had an easy win over St. Senans in the N.K.L. This was a very one sided game with St. Senans missing five of their regular players. Nevertheless our boys played some lovely football especially in the first half. With their passing and fast movement of the ball, it was a pleasure to watch. At half time the game was as good as over and we ran out easy winners at the end. FIXTURES: Ballydonoghue play Knock/Brosna in the 2004 N.K. U-21 Semi-Final on Thursday 23rd June in Duagh at 8:00 p.m. Juniors play Lispole in the County Junior League on Friday 24th June in Coolard at 8:00 p.m. Seniors play Fossa in the County Novice Championship on Saturday 25th June in Fossa at 7:30 pm. SHANNON RANGERS: Church Gate collection Saturday 25th and Sunday 26th June please give generously. SOCCER; It was a disappointing weekend, with Lisselton being knocked out of the race for the league title. Needing all 3 points to force a play off with Killorglin, we drew 1-1 with near neighbours Ratoo, in a game that Lisselton could have easily have won. Kiki Mulvihill scored the Lisselton goal with Ratoo’s Gary O Brien getting the goal which ultimately knocked us out. Ratoo finished the season on 42 points, with Kilorglin finishing on 38. Both of these teams finished ahead of Lisselton on 36 points and thus, they have got the play off places for the league semi finals. This is especially disappointing when one looks at the table and sees that Lisselton have lost only one game, this against Dingle, a team fighting relegation. This bad result, together with a few draws that were caused by poor finishing and bad luck, have lead to this disappointing finale. John O Regan has had 12 wins and 2 draws in his 14 games in charge. A bad patch before Christmas has come back to haunt the team. Still, we have the biggest game in Kerry soccer to come, the K.O. Cup final against Tralee Dynamoes. This is a big big game for the club, and details of when this will be on, will be in the notes over the coming weeks. YOUTHS; With the exams coming to a close, the Youths will be resuming action over the next few weeks. They have 3 semi finals to play. UNDER 16’s: The under 16’s have 1 game left but the whole of Kerry schoolboys soccer is very quite at the moment and a lot of games are still left to be played in all divisions. We are currently fundraising to raise funds to cover the costs of expenses for the year. If these debts aint cleared, it puts future Lisselton underage teams in jeopardy as the club cannot survive. We operate totally independent from the senior club and pay all our expenses ourselves. We have organised a double event, a sponosred head shave and a sponsored fast and there are prizes on offer to the sponsors. This event will be held when the club holds its awards night. This date will not be decided until the KO Cup and Youths games have been finished. B TEAM; Have only 1 game left. Manager Michael Carr who gave total dedication to the team for the year has issued his intent to retire after the season ends. This team has produced some massive performances this year and on our day, we were more than a match for most in the division. However, on many days, we were forced to line out with too many youngsters. This was not fair on them as most days, they had already played an under 16 game the day before and some had also played Youths games. A new managers or managers are wanted to take complete control of the team. It is a big venture, but im sure that there are plenty of people out there to do this job. COMMUNITY GAMES: Co finals took place on Saturday and Sunday. In the u8 60m, Collette Foley, Kieran Lynch and Kieran O’Connell came first in their heats. Kieran Lynch went on to win a bronze medal in the final on Sunday. In u10 100m, both Rebecca Lynch and Elaine McCarthy reached the final and Rebecca brought home the silver medal. In u12 100m, Jeremy Lynch qualified in his heat. Declan Behan reached the finals of the 600m. Brenda Foley came 1st in her 100m heat. In the u16 100m, Eamon Walsh qualified for Sundays finals. Our u10 relay team of Brian O Seannachain, Elaine McCarthy, Rebecca Lynch and David O’Neill succeeded in reaching the final. Sincere thanks to all the parents who came to support, special thanks must go to Margaret O’Neill who gave of her time to train the young athletes and to Mike and Martina Joy, who coached the qualifiers in the shot putt and ball throw. CEMETERY MASSES: Mass will be held in Lisselton Cemetery on Monday, July 18 at 8pm, and at Gale Cemetery on Thursday, July 21 at 8pm also. HOSPICE FUNDRAISER: The fundraiser held at the weekend in aid of the Listowel Hospice and the palliative care unit, Tralee, was a huge success. There is great credit due to Martin Foley, Glouria, who along with his young neighbours and friends, organised a barbecue, bouncing castle, entertainment and numerous bands for the occasion on Saturday night last at Tomaisins. Well done to all the young people of the surrounding area, who turned up in huge numbers to support the event. LOTTO: The results of the Ballyduff Community Games and Ladys Walk hurling club weekly lotto for Monday, June 13 are as follows. Numbers drawn were 2, 6, 19, 21. There was no winner of the ?7300 jackpot and the following were the ?50 winners. Thomas Dalton, Ladies Walk, Darragh Browne, Knopogue, Bridie O’Sullivan, Abbeyfeale. TV DRAW: Patricia Heffernan, Lixnaw, Colm Boyle, Ballincrossig, Sharon McMahon, Lixnaw. Tickets are on sale locally at ?2 each and remember if you are not in you cant win. SENIOR HURLING: Ballyduff senior hurlers were held to a draw by Causeway in the Co senior hurling league at Ballyduff on Thursday of last week. The home side led 0-7 to 1-1 at half time and at the end of 60 mins they held a 3 pt lead, before Causeway equalised five mins into injury tie. The final score was Ballyduff 0-11, Causeway 2-5. Ballyduff line out, M Boyle, D Bowler, b Lawlor, D Slattery, A O’Connor, P O’Grady, M Bowler, B O’Sullivan 0-9, A Boyle, E Joy, G O’Brien, P O’Rourke, J Murphy, K Boyle 0-1, K Godley. Subs J P Leahy 0-1 for J Murphy, G Guerin for J P Leahy inj. U14 FOOTBALL: Ballyduff u14 footballers had a 5-8 to 4-3 victory over Duagh at the local sportsfield on Thursday of last week in Rd 2 of the N Kerry u14 football league. The home side led 3-6 to 1-2 at half time, having played with the stiff breeze. Duagh came out with all guns blazing in the 2nd period and scored two early goals. Ballyduff weathered the storm and two goals put them in the driving seat and they went on to win by 8 points. Ballyduff K Griffin, D O’Connell, P Hussey, M Hussey, D O’Grady, T Slattery 0-1, A O’Carroll, J Bowler 2-0, C White 0-3, K Lynch, K O’Connor 2-2, P Boyle, L O’Brien 1-0, K O’Carroll 0-2, K O’Grady. Sub Padraig Slattery. GAA MEETING: A very important meeting of Ballyduff hurling and football club will be held at Ballyduff Central NS on this Thursday night, June 23 at 9.30pm. A number of items are down for discussion, including the night at the dogs, jubilee celebrations et. All officers and members are requested to attend. SUMMER SPORTS CAMP: Sean Geaney’s Summer Sports Camp for on week will be held in Causeway Comprehensive School catering for Causeway and all surrounding areas such as Ardfert, Ballyheigue, Abbeydorney, Ballyduff, Lixnaw, Kilmoyley and Kilflynn. The camp runs from Monday, July 18, to Friday, July 22, from 10am to 3pm daily. Boys and girls aged 5-14 years are catered for. Activities include all kinds of sports including football, soccer, basketball, unihoc, tag rugby, rounders, Olympic handball, along with orienteering, treasure hunts, arts and crafts, quiz, superstars, games room and much more plus two fantastic entertainment shows by “Magic Moonshines” bouncing castle, parachute game and for older children there is swimming which includes a bus trip to Tralee Sports Complex. Enquiries to Sean Geaney 087 2213834/ 087 6961567 mobile; (066) 7181840 home or (066) 7142022 work. Book early to avoid disappointment. NANO NAGLE SUMMER CAMP: Will take place at Ballyduff Central NS from Monday to Friday, July 29 10am to 3pm. Certificates awarded to all volunteers. Contact Karen O’Grady 0872630754, Teresa Meehan 0667131021, Nodie O’Brien 0667131267. Male and female volunteers required for this Summer camp. Volunteers need to be 16 years or over. NIGHT AT THE DOGS: Ballyduff GAA clubs night at the dogs on Saturday, July 16, will have 11 races on the night with the feature race being the Michael Hennessy Memorial Sweepstake, The night gets underway at 7.50pm and a great night is assured. Admission is only ?5 and tickets are on sale locally. Anybody interested in taking out a nomination at ?20 is asked to contact any club officer. FIXTURES: Wednesday, June 22, NK u14 football, Ballyduff v St Senans at Ballyduff 7.30pm. Co SHL Div 2 Ladys Walk Kilmoyley at Ballyduff 8pm. Friday, June 24, Co u14 hurling semi final TBA 7pm. Saturday, June 25, NK 10 hurling blitz at Lerrig 10.30am. Sunday, June 26, Co u12 football Laune Rangers B v Ballyduff at Killorglin 7pm. Monday, June 27, Co u16 football Ballyduff v Beaufort at Ballyduff 7.30pm. Tuesday, June 28, Co u12 hurling, Ballyduff v Kenmare/Kilgarvan at Ballyduff 7pm. Thursday, June 30, NK minor hurling Causeway v Ballyduff at Causeway 6.30pm. GAA: The Ballyheigue senior hurlers defeated Ballyduff in the q final of the N Kerry c’ship at Ballyheigue on Monday evening. Final score Ballyheigue 4-16, Ballyduff 2-15. Team and scorers, J Healy, C Griffin, M Lucid, P Harrington, K O’Sullivan, K O’Mahony, W J Leen, D Walsh 0-1, J Griffin 0-1, A Lawlor, E Flahive 0-1, M Slattery 0-10, N Stack 0-1, B O’Sullivan 3-1, K O’Sullivan 1-1. Sub D Casey. The Intermediate team defeated St Brendans in Rd 1 of the Co c’ship at Ballyheigue on Wednesday evening. Full time score Ballyheigue 2-9, St Brendans 1-10. Team and scorers, P Corridan, J Kenny, K O’Mahony, P Harrington, T O’Connor, C Griffin, P Flahive, J Griffin 0-1, D Casey 0-1, A Lawlor, T B O’Connor, R Hartnett, K O’Sullivan 1-1, M Kenny, N Stack 1-4. Subs G Lucid, D Griffin, M Dineen. The senior team played out an exciting draw with Kilmoyley at Lerrig on Thursday evening, in the Co league. Final score Ballyheigue 1-12, Kilmoyley 1-12. Team and scorers J Healy, C Griffin, M Lucid, J Kenny, K O’Sullivan, K O’Mahony, W J Leen, N Gilbride 0-1, A Lawlor, K O’Sullivan, E Flahive 0-1, M Slattery 0-6, N Stack 0-1, B O’Sullivan 1-2, D Casey 0-1. Subs P Flahive, P O’Connor. The Ballyheigue u12 hurlers defeated Abbeydorney in the Co league at Ballyheigue on Thursday evening. Final score Ballyheigue 4-6, Abbeydorney 4-1. Team and scorers, P Carroll, J Lawlor, T Casey, M Reidy, J Regan, S Dunne 1-5, B Dunne, P Behan, G Galwey, D Behan 1-0, S Galwey, K Casey, N Carroll 1-0, C O’Mahony 1-0, P Lucid 0-1, Subs used A Flahive, B Reidy. SUMMER CAMP: Kerryhead/Ballyheigue Family Resource Centre, will run a Summer Camp for two weeks, July 18 to 22, and July 25 to 29 from 10am to 2pm each day for 7 to 12 year olds. Cost ?45 per child, per week, concessions for more than one child per family. There will be indoor and outdoor activities with a mystery outing on Fridays. Advance booking advisable, tel 0667116961. COMMUNITY GAMES: The final week of our season got off to a great start, when Maura O’Sullivan put in a great performance to take the silver medal in the u14 girls cycle race in Mountcoal on Wednesday evening. On Saturday a 50 strong team took part in the athletics finals in Austin Stack Park. 10 Ballyheigue athletes qualified for Sunday. Also on Saturday, Mark Dineen put in a bronze medal winning performance n the u13 900m walk. Aileen Corridan won gold in the u14 long puck,. She will now join Ciaran O’Hara at the National finals in Mosney. Aileen was joined on the winners podium by Deirdre Griffin, who finished 4th to take the long puck cert. Sunday morning saw Sarah Corridan u8 60m, Ciara Reidy u8 80m, John Corridan u10 hurdles, Brendan Dunne u10 100m, Amanda Gentleman u12 100m, Becky Casey u14 100m, and Niamh Guerin u14 100m, all putting in good displays, but failing to make the finals. Aishling Guerin u10 200m, won her semi final but ran out of luck in the final. Padraig Carroll u10 100m won his semi final and followed this with a 4th place finish and a cert in the final. Ciara Walsh u14 800m, was impressive when winning her semi final with ease. In the final she had to settle for silver. So we finished with one gold, two silver one bronze and two certs. Finally thanks to the many supporters. FIXTURES: N Kerry u11 c’ship Ballyheigue v Duagh at Duagh, this Wednesday at 6.30. Co u14 league Ballyheigue v Dingle at Ballyheigue, Friday evening 7pm. N Kerry u10 blitz at Lerrig, Saturday morning 10.320. LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Saturday nights lotto, 7, 8, 17, 23. The jackpot of ?1,750 was not won. Next weeks jackpot will be ?1.800. The two ?50 winners were Teresa Reidy, Glenlea, Kathleen Hayes, Abbeydorney. The ?25 winner, Johnny Dillane, Ballinclemessig. COURSING CLUB: Lotto - The numbers drawn were 2, 5, 15, 24. There was no jackpot winner. ?50, Pat McElligott, Castlelawn; ?50, Flurry Michael Flahive; ?25 each to Karen Reidy, Tier; Sean Guerin, Glenlea. Jackpot next Sunday night is ?9100 and the draw takes place at the White Sands.  FOOTBALL: U12 - Our U12’s defeated Beale in Ballybunion last week. Final score: Ballyheigue 2-9, Beale 1-10.  Team: N Carroll, C O’Mahony, M Dineen, J Lawlor, T Casey, P Behan, B Dunne, S Dunne, G Galloway, P Carroll, K O’Sullivan, M O’Halloran, D Behan, S Casey, Sarah Galloway.  Subs: B Reidy, A Flahive, K Casey, M O’Connor, P Lucid, S O’Mahony, M Reidy, Roisín Donnellan. SUMMER SPORTS CAMP: Sean Geaney’s Summer Sports Camp for on week will be held in Causeway Comprehensive School catering for Causeway and all surrounding areas such as Ardfert, Ballyheigue, Abbeydorney, Ballyduff, Lixnaw, Kilmoyley and Kilflynn. The camp runs from Monday, July 18, to Friday, July 22, from 10am to 3pm daily. Boys and girls aged 5-14 years are catered for. Activities include all kinds of sports including football, soccer, basketball, unihoc, tag rugby, rounders, olympic handball, along with orienteering, treasure hunts, arts and crafts, quiz, superstars, games room and much more plus two fantastic entetainment shows by “Magic Moonshines” bouncing castle, parachute game and for older children there is swimming which includes a bus trip to Tralee Sports Complex. Enquiries to Sean Geaney 087 2213834/ 087 6961567 mobile; (066) 7181840 home or (066) 7142022 work. Book early to avoid disappointment. BASKETBALL: Naomh Laichtin were out of luck at the Duagh Blitz held in Athea on Sunday, losing to Duagh and Templeglantine. Well done to Duagh who won the senior section defeating Knocknagoshel in the final and to Listowel who won the junior group with a win over Athea. We had two exciting games against Listowel first years. We went down by double scores in Listowel but we were better able to find the basket in Moyvane and the final score was 0-22 to 0-16 in favour of Listowel. Sinead O’Hanlon was our most consistent player and Karen Fitzgerald was our top scorer with five baskets. Anne McCarthy played well all through and Emily Wren, Betty O’Connor and Elaine Cox were best in defence. Naomh Laichtin: K Fitzgerald (capt), C Fitzgerald, S O’Connor, B Dineen, E Wren, B O’Connor, E Cox, C Shannon, S O’Hanlon, A McCarty, D O’Connor. Coaches: D Wren, P O’Concubhair. GAA: The lotto draw for weekend June 12, was at the Horse and Hound Bar and the ?3825 jackpot was not won. The numbers drawn were 1, 17, 23, 26 and the four ?25 lucky dips were Jim Stack, Rusheen; Anne Mason, Blanemore; Mamie Kearney, Bridge St and Donna Lavery, Ballyline. Last weekends draw was at Finnucane’s Bar and there was no winner of the ?3900 jackpot. The numbers drawn were 7, 12, 20, 24, and the lucky dips were Dolores O’Connor, Kilgarvan; Stephen Dowling, Cork; Oonagh Hartnett, Chemist, Listowel; Billy Enright, Ballymackessy. The bar prize sponsored by Michael Finucane was won by David Fennell, Lenamore. Bally lost to Scartaglin 3-9 to 1-11 in a county league Div 5 game last weekend. Congratulations to Paddy Kelly who was on the Kerry team which defeated Limerick last weekend. Congratulations also to Kenneth Foley, Lenamore and David Culhane, Kilelton who were both members of the Kerry Primary Schools team on Sunday also. BORD NA NOG: NK league U14 - Bally/ Asdee 1-22, Knocknagoshel 6-4. Bally/ Asdee played with strong wind in the first half and kicked some wonderful points to lead at half time by 1-18 to 3-2. Team: L McCarthy, J Tydings, M O’Connor, E McElligott and K Foley kicked great points but we conceded three goals. In the second half, Knocknagoshel came back strongly with the help of the wind and they scored three more goals to reduce the lead to one point with four minutes remaining. However, our boys finished well and kicked two good points to give us a very worthy win. This was a great team effort and all the players deserve great credit. Team: S O’Sullivan, K Tydings, C Dineen, M Collins, M McEllistrim, S Carmody, K Foley, S O’Sullivan, M O’Connor, L McCarthy, E McElligott, E Kennedy, J Tydings. Subs: M Tydings, T Kennedy, S Cox, R Mitchell, P Buckley, C McEllistrim. In the first round we drew with Moyvane on a score of Bally/ Asdee 3-14, Moyvane 4-11. CLOGHER NS There will be an Open Day in Clogher National School on Friday 24th June, starting with Mass at Clogher Church at 10am. After Mass, refreshments will be served in the School. Sports activities will follow. Enrolments are now being taken for September 2005. Inquiries to the School. GAA Club Lotto Results, 18 June 2005 Numbers drawn were 9, 14, 22, 25 - the jackpot of ?2,050 was not won. Lucky dip winners (?30 each) were Joe Brosnan (Ballinorig), Denis Dunne (Maglass), Jade O'Riordan (Ballymac), Catherine Callaghan (Ballymac) and Gerry O'Connell (Castleisland). Seller's Prize: Tom Leen. The next draw will take place on Saturday 25 June at the Halfway Bar, jackpot of ?2,200. A Benefit Meeting will be held at Kingdom Greyhound Stadium, Tralee on Friday 1st July starting at 7.50pm in aid of Kerry General Hospital Equipment Fund. Tickets cost 5 and are available from Ballymacelligott Post Office. Just turned 18. Register now for your vote - application forms available from the Post Office. Handball Notes Two teams from the Club took part in Feile Na Gael competition over the weekend:Boys [40x20 Divsion 2]-Brian Casey, Brian Keane, William Prendeville,Eoin Keane: Girls [40x20 Division 1]-Fiona Griffin, Aine Casey, Ciara Griffin, Nicola Horan. The boys team were beaten in three games by Mallow, Feenagh and Wexford, while the girls team were defeated in two games by Ballaghdreen and Coolboy. Aine Casey came third in the skills competion in Div 1-a great result from a young player. Catriona Casey-Aines sister won the Skills event in the 2001 Feile, which was also held in Cork. These two teams are young all the time, with a fair share of them being underage next year. All of them have improved greatly over the last year-their day will come. Maria Daly flew out to Houston-Texas last Friday week, to take part in the US Nationals. She competed in three events: Girls U19 Singles, Womens Open Singles and Womens Senior Singles. Maria was knocked out in the first round of the Open Singles by Allison Roberts, and she is due to play two Finals on Sunday June 19. Girls U19 Singles @ 10am V Katie Sedgewick, and Senior Singles V Beth Rowley/Leanne Martin-more on this next week as results are not to hand yet. Ballymac went down to Hospital [Limerick], in the Semi Final of the Munster 60x30 Club Championship on Thursday last in Broadford. The Ballymac Team which had a blend of experience and youth, went down fighting on the scoreline of 86-58. Clive Counihan set a solid foundation in the first singles for the rest of the team-Pat Mc Carthy, Shane Twomey and Danny Riordan. The Limerick outfit proved to be too strong for the Kerry contingent, even though Pat Mc Carthy led the way in his enthusiasm and craft. Shane and Danny were in awe of the Maglass man, as the old saying goes-the old dog for the hard road. Clive Counihan plays Noel Raymond on Monday June 19 in Ballymac @ 8pm, in a 60x30 Junior Singles County playoff. Handball Summer Camps Ollie Cassidy and Clive Counihan are visiting the Local Schools, to organise the 2005 Summer Camps. We need the full support of everyone, to make these a success. We would be looking at a number of at least fifteen participants, at each camp to make them viable. A more detailed rundown of games/events during the week are available, in the Sports Section of The Kerryman.It has the full results of all games during the week, and the details of any forthcoming Fixtures/Events. GAA LOTTO - Results for this week: There was no outright winner. The numbers were: 9-14-22-25. Lucky Dips were: Joe Brosnan, Ballinorig, Denis Dunne, Maglass, Jade O Riordan, Ballymac, Catherine Callaghan, Ballymac and Jerry O Connell, Castleisland. Sellers prize went to: Tom Leen Next week‚s Jackpot is ?2200.00. The draw will take place in Half-Way Bar. Under 12: Our Under 12s are away to Glenbeigh. After than they will be at home to Crokes B. At Ballydesmond on Wednesday last, Knockaclarig NS had a decisive victory of the locals in a great game of football 2-10 to 1-7. Line out C Kiely, C Brouder, P Murphy, E Kiely, Capt, S Fitzmaurice, G Nash, C Cahill, M Curtin, D Fitzmaurice, B Broderick, C Fitzmaurice. This completes the league section of the competition, and puts Knockaclarig top of the table, with 7 points out of a possible 8. As a result they now qualify for the semi finals of the competition, which will pit them against Tullylease NS in Rockchapel later this week. The School would like to thank everybody who helped make the annual sports day such an outstanding success. The day is far more than a sports day as it involves pre schools, pupils, parents and grand parents. MUNSTER SFC: All roads led to the Gaelic Grounds Limerick on Sunday last for the Munster SFC. Semi Final against Limerick. This was always going to be a tough encounter for Kerry like the Battles over the previous years. Kerry made very bad work of the job in store until Seamus Moynihan, William Kirby and Dara O Cinneide proved very influential in the last twenty minutes. Well done to Colm “Gooch” Cooper on his total tally of 2-5. Kerry’s next outing is against Cork in Pairc Ui Caoimh Cork on July 10th in the Munster Final. U-21 COUNTY CHAMPIONSHIP against Laune Rangers due to be played on Tuesday night the 19th was postponed due to the Kerry Juniors replay against Limerick on Thursday night the 16th July. U-21 NK CHAMPIONSHIP against Ballydonoghue will be played this Thursday night the 16th in Duagh. This is still last years competition so we wish Brosna/Knocknagoshal all the very best. CON CURTIN MUSIC FESTIVAL committee held a meeting last Thursday night to finalise their programme. A vote of sympathy was extended to the McAuliffe family on the death of Peggy and to Timmy Sullivan on the death of his sister Maureen in Chicago. One of the main attractions for the weekend is the Ennis Ceili Band. Also at the concert are Frances Kennedy, Scor and Culture Corner winners, Set dancers from Boherbue and Roisin Browne. This concert is starting at 8pm sharp, as there is such a big line up in what is promising to be a very entertaining concert. There is a busking competition (weather permitting) on Sunday at 2pm and all children are encouraged to take part. Another great attraction to Brosna of course is the pub trail in which over 60 musicians are listed including Seamus Begley, Donal Murphy, Danny O Mahony, Michelle Sheridan, Siobhan Peoples Tony O Connell and Alan Egan but to mention a few. So come on out and support this annual festival to ensure its continuing success. COMMUNITY GAMES: Congratulations to Sinead Guiney who received a certificate in the u12 ball throwing competition at the Kerry Community games finals in Tralee. Well done also to Adam Barry who qualified for the final of his event, and thanks also to all the parents, and to Helen Guiney who trained the athletes each week in the GAA field. CARDS: 1, Nellie Shanahan and Dan T O’Sullivan; 2, Nip O’Sullivan and Dan Daly; Denis Hickey and Micky; Ladies - Nuala O’Shea and Kathleen Carroll, Kathleen and Mary; Gents - Richie Walsh and Joe Reidy; Mixed - Norrie O’Connor and Danny Lane; Spots - Peggy and Battie, Ann and Aenie. HAPPY BIRTHDAY: The Hall resounded to music and laughter last Sunday as a huge 90th birthday party was held for Eily McAuliffe, Knockefreghane by her family. She was surrounded by her daughters Nora, Eileen, Mary and Sheila and sons Paddy and Laurence as well as relatives and friends and she thoroughly enjoyed the afternoon. Happy Birthday Eily and may you have many more. ARÁS AN UACHTARÁN: Last Tuesday afternoon eight members of the Parish Council were invited to meet President Mary McAleese at Áras an Uachtaráin. They were Mary Ann Downes, Kitty Healy, Kay Wash, Mary Cahill, Margaret Lane, Eileen Lane, Mag Browne and Eileen Browne. They were each greeted individually by the President and her husband Martin and were invited to partake of refreshments and to feel free to roam the public apartments. They were there with other voluntary groups from all over the country and they estimated that there were two hundred people in all there. The welcome they received was very gracious and very warm and gracious. The President spoke to them for about ten minutes stressing the importance of the work they were doing and praised them for their time and efforts they devoted to each cause. It was a very happy group who came home after a visit that was so rewarding and worthwhile. ICA: Eileen Lane and Kathleen D O’Connor took part in a walk in Farranfore last month for Breast Cancer Research. They wish to thank everyone who sponsored them. Through their efforts they raised ?305 in Brosna. Well done. A reminder to you all about the ICA outing which is taking place next Wednesday, June 29, to Annesgrove Gardens, Castletownroche and then on to Cork vi Fermoy. Please hurry and book your seat by contacting Eileen Lane 441762 or Maura Sheehan 44436. The bus will leaver the Square at 9am. EXAMS: We hope all examinees are satisfied now that exams are virtually over. Enjoy the Summer and we hope all goes well for you. GAA: Lotto - The numbers drawn were 4, 5, 9, 17. Jackpot not won. Winner ?50, Tom Prendiville, Brosna; promoter Tom Prendiville, Brosna. Lucky dips ?20 to Ann Connolly, Brosna; Aisling Moloney, Brosna; Jerry Leahy, Brosna; Tom Moloney, Meelin. Next weeks jackpot will be ?1400 at the Sportsfield Bar, Brosna, on Monday, June 27. RESULTS: Our Intermediate team defeated Crotta O’ Neills on Wednesday night last in the County Intermediate Championship on a score line of 3-18 to 3-7 at Causeway, Causeway trailed for most of this game, and a 10 minute period of domination in the final quater brought them through this tie,the team lined out as follows:J whelan,D O Connor,M Burke,G Canty,Ml Diggin,M Dillane,P O’ Grady,C Diggin,S Sheehan(3-6),B Jarty(0-1),B Walshe(0-2),T Burke,J Dillane(0-1),A Whyte(0-3),K Canty(0-4). Our senior team drew with ballyduff on Thursday evening last in vallyduff in the county league, U-14 FEILE NA NGAEL: Congrats to our U-14 team who contested the final of division 3 of the feile competition. They won their opening game on Friday evening against our host club Courcey Rovers on a scoreline of 4-6 to 1-8,this set the tone for an extremely productive weekend,on Saturday morning we beat Newcesstown on a scoreline of 6-5 to 0-1,and our second game in this section was against Middletown from Armagh and we won this game on a scoreline of 6-5 to 1-1. We won our section and qualified for the Division 3 semi finals,were we played and beat a strong cork city team in Brian Dillons on a scoreline of 2-4 to 2-1,this was a cracking game played in fantastic conditions in Carrigaline, We then qualified for the Division 3 final against Fermoy in Pairc Ui Rinn at 10.30,we awere defeated in the final on a scoreline of 4-9 to 2-3,this fermoy team had won the cork county u-14 recently so the opposition was a strong cork side, A big well done to all the players,mentors and the fantastic support that we got from our own parish,this was a trememdous occasion and they did club and county very proud and exceeded all our expectations by reaching the final it was a fabulous sight to see the fantastic support they received at the games all weekend, we say a big Thank You for your efforts. The team lined out as follows Padraig Lucid,Tommy Barrett,Muiris Delayney,Ricky Keane,Brendan O’Carroll,Eoin Grady,JJ O’Connor,John Cantillion,Tommy Mulvihill,Sean O Dwyer,John Barry,Michael O Shea,Richard Casey,Colm Harty,Brian Murphy,Anthony Fealy,Enda O Hollaran,Seamus Breen,Thomas Casey,Paul McGrath,Willie Casey, LOTTO DRAW: Commencing on july 4th the club lotto draw will take place at 10.00pm sharp,all tickets to be handed in for 9.30 pm on the Monday night of Lotto draw,any tickets after this time will be included in the following weeks draw. FIXTURES:The U -14 team play Ardfert in Lerrig at 6.30 pm on this Friday evening 24/6/05 in the semi final of the County league. 
