sport gaa
{  
    May 25 2008 03:53 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/gaa-fears-for-future-funding-26448951.html }
FROM any rational standpoint the findings of the latest Economic and Social Research Institute report bore glad tidings for anyone with a vested interest in Irish sport. It seems like only yesterday dire warnings were being sounded that we were in danger of nurturing a nation of obese children who would have to be airlifted from their game consoles to the classroom and who would grow into a class of young delinquents more concerned with scoring their next cocaine hit than the winning goal for their football team. The latest ESRI figures should ease our fears. It seems we are a truly sports-mad nation after all. Our children are playing more sport than ever. This generation of adults plays substantially more sport than its predecessors. They played two-thirds more sport as children as the generation before them. Sport and health are the big winners here. How could anyone be unhappy? Yet the ink on the findings was barely dry when its authors felt the first sting of the GAA's mighty lash. They had the audacity to suggest that while other sports had increased participation levels in recent years, the numbers playing Gaelic games had remained stagnant. The GAA was indignant it hadn't been consulted before the report was released, creating the sense that it had been ambushed, the victim of some personal vendetta. According to one unnamed GAA official, it was a mere exercise in sensationalism. "I think the findings are off the wall," he said. "This has been designed for nothing other than publicity." Why it would be sensationalist or who precisely was seeking the publicity wasn't clear. But the inference was: the GAA was under siege and it was time once again to come out fighting. It's difficult to imagine it was the intention of the ESRI to raise the hackles of the country's leading sports organisation, but that's precisely what it did. For the most part, the GAA is on good terms with rival sports and at peace with itself, but only as long as its long-standing pre-eminence is acknowledged, its giant ego stroked. In effectively suggesting that the GAA was no longer the daddy when it came to sport, the authors, unwittingly or not, were opening up a sizeable can of worms. Is it all that surprising, though, that there should be a relative decline in the numbers playing football and hurling? Figures suggest that the gap between those playing soccer and GAA in schools is narrowing while soccer is increasingly favoured among adults. Given the relaxing of the GAA's grip in the schools in recent years, why would we expect it to be any different? Offer kids a range of sports and the evidence is that they will greedily gobble them up. In reality, participation rates are a questionable means of establishing the merits of rival sports. By ESRI standards, golf would reign supreme, possibly soon to be challenged at the top by jogging. And while the GAA can point to its enviable volunteer ethos, the truth is that every sport has its selfless heroes, many of them working in worse conditions and against far sterner odds than those within GAA. That doesn't make them better, but equal at least. According to the GAA's own figures, there is no perceptible decline in numbers playing, particularly in the larger urban areas, but most of the big sports will tell you the same thing. A number of years back both the IRFU and FAI ploughed significant grant monies into disadvantaged areas and in time you will begin to see the dividend. In all the bleating about participation, the socio-economic element of the report has been regrettably ignored. For all the country's wealth and demographic shifts in recent years, Brian Kerr's old line about Tallaght not producing too many Olympic sailors still holds. In Beijing, we will have five boxers: two working-class Dubs, a kid from west Belfast and two Travellers. It isn't that the GAA has been remiss in such areas, but it knows there is no room for complacency. Previous ESRI reports have pointed out its invaluable contribution to Irish society and only the most narrow-minded bigot would wish to deny it. But there are new communities it needs to reach out to now. The pilot programme with Gort's immigrant population is encouraging. Reaching out to the Protestant community in the North would be even more so. Whatever, its future isn't under immediate threat and that's not what enraged them this week. What stoked the embers of their fire was the real fear that the implied dig contained in the report is a forerunner to the GAA's funding being slashed in future share-outs. Last year the GAA received over one-third of the Sports Capital Programme grants. Why, the report effectively asks, should the "lion's share" of government funds continue to go to a sport that appears to be in relative decline? Even if the report has foundation, it is easy to see why GAA officials reacted so aggressively. It is all very well for the report to suggest there is a strong funding bias in favour of team sports, but when it states that 76 per cent of adult sport involves individual rather than team pursuits, what exactly does that mean and what implications does it have for future policy? Will joggers be in line for their cut of the cake? Will walkers feel discriminated against because the ESRI doesn't deem it to be a sport? One group who will be encouraged are the nation's elite athletes, many of whom have never received a penny of public funding, and who now have to look on as inter-county GAA players, for the most part less fit and less dedicated, receive grants for the trouble of representing their county. There is no evidence in the report to suggest it, but deep down GAA people won't be able to stop thinking that last week was merely the first sign that somewhere down the line they will pay the price of that concession. 
