sport gaa
{ Gaelic Games 
    November 10 2007 04:53 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/wriggle-room-now-the-key-as-gpa-set-the-timer-on-proposed-action-26330754.html }
THERE are so many extra-ordinary aspects to what is possibly the biggest crisis facing the GAA in its 123-year history that it's difficult to prioritise them. First, and most centrally of all, there's the clumsy hand of Government, dangling money in front of GAA players only to remove it to the highest shelf when eager hands reached out. "We've put it aside for you but the GAA will have to climb the rickety ladder, take it down and distribute it," says Government. "We're climbing no ladders," say the GAA."Government promised money to players, which we're happy about, but how they disburse it is their responsibility." And all the time the players can see the crisp notes just waiting to be collected, except they remain out of reach because Government and GAA can't agree on who should climb the ladder. It's as ludicrous as it's embarrassing that such a relatively minor issue couldn't be resolved. The GPA, frustrated to the point of distraction, let it be known for months that unless the players received what was rightfully theirs, as per Government and GAA agreement, they would take action. And now they have. They set the timer on the nuclear button yesterday by declaring that, as and from January 1, they will withdraw from inter-county competition unless the Government grants are paid. It's designed to concen-trate minds and with pre-season competition not due to start until eight weeks tomorrow, it leaves not so much wriggle room as enough space to accommodate several negotiating trains. For the sake of players, public and the GAA in general, the earnest hope is that common sense will prevail and the Government will find a way of paying the grant aid through one of its own agencies, preferably the Sports Council. The Government is, of course, dealing in a massive subterfuge here. They want the GAA to pay the grant aid from their own resources with a promise that the annual grant for infrastructural investment will be increased by the €5m pay-out. That way, the Government could claim that the GAA were paying the grant and were being reimbursed through other subventions. It's the ultimate in 'Del Boy' practice. The GAA reject this system on the basis that (a) they won't grant-aid players themselves and (b) there's no way of knowing how much they will receive from Government on a year-to-year basis for infrastructural aid. In all probability, it would lead to a situation where, a few years hence, the GAA were paying the €5m grants from their own resources, while the Government got the credit for it. This mess is of Government making, which is why they should have been targeted by the GPA. As it is, the players have threatened to leave the floor which won't exactly bother Government because they can always claim that the €5m is still on the shelf if somebody else is prepared to take it down. Surely that's Sports Council territory. Why hasn't Government instructed the Sports Council to administer the scheme? Given the ridiculous situation that has developed, the strategic approach by the GPA would have been to target an area that brought the matter to a head without involving them in a strike for which public support will wane very quickly. GAA players have, for some years, been subjected to dope testing on the same basis as international -- and in most cases -- professional athletes. The GAA had to sign up to dope testing to ensure that they continued receiving Government grants. They also felt it was the right thing to do. However, GAA players have been uneasy about a situation where a professional Sports Council doping officer can arrive at a game or at training and test an amateur player. They accepted it because they were told they had no choice if the GAA were to continue receiving grants. So why didn't the GPA use the drug-testing issue as a lever towards freeing up the €5m grants? Why not declare that all players would refuse to be tested? The knock-on effect would be for the Government to threaten to withdraw grant aid for the GAA. That, in turn, would bring Government and GAA into serious conflict while the player enjoyed the moral superiority of the high ground. Instead, they have taken an enormous risk by threatening strike because they don't know where it will lead if the dispute is not resolved by January 1. They were anxious yesterday to emphasise the large majority enjoyed in the strike ballot and keen too to discredit the story in yesterday's Irish Independent where Mickey Harte stated that, irrespective of the circumstances, Tyrone would field a team in all competitions next year. He also expressed the view that at least some of the current squad would play. It was an understandable if unconvincing response, given that the last thing the GPA needed on the day they were announcing the results of the strike ballot was a top manager stating that his county would fulfil all commitments next year. It was also a stark reminder that once the strike tunnel is entered, nobody can retain cont-rol of what happens next. And that's where the GAA and its players stand this morning. Luckily, there are several weeks to negotiate a settlement which, ultimately, is down to the Government because the mess is solely of their making. The response by the GAA may have been less than persuasive and the GPA have used their biggest bomb while another equally persuasive, and more tactically astute weapon, was available. Meanwhile, Government continues to behave as if they're oblivious to the fall-out their inept handling of the grants issue has created. Now that's a worry. 
