sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    July 23 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/storm-warning-for-gaa-26552958.html }
EAMONN O'Hara didn't equivocate. If the grants issue isn't settled to the satisfaction of GAA players, they will consider strike action. According to O'Hara, it's a matter of principle. The Government promised them €3.5m a year, but are now cutting it to €1.05m. Even by Bord Snip Nua parameters that's a serious reduction. "We're getting a slap in the face. This is not all about money. There's a very important point of principle here and players are not going to allow themselves to be bullied into submission," he said. In that case, prepare for a strike because the Government won't allocate any more funds. In fact, they have structured their new offer in such a divisive and elitist way, by excluding most counties, that they know the GPA couldn't accept it in that format. However duplicitous or conniving it may be, the Government know they are on solid ground in cutting GAA players' funding. In fact, if they wiped it out altogether it wouldn't register with the public who, quite frankly, are too worried over their own personal circumstances to concern themselves with sports grants. With the Government intent on extricating themselves from the scheme as quickly as possible, the entire focus will centre on whether Croke Park (the term is used to describe official policy) and the GPA can strike a lasting deal which is acceptable to both. Only a total optimist would be confident that can be achieved. The GPA publicly acknowledged during the negotiations for the grants that in the event of the Government withdrawing, they would not ask the GAA to fund the scheme. In return for that assurance, the GAA supported the GPA in their application. In a rapidly evolving situation, a new scenario has arisen. The grants are being decimated and, in a separate development, the GPA are seeking 5pc of GAA gates, TV and sponsorship money. The stakes are increasing all the time, and while there has been a degree of bluffing by both sides over the years, it's getting beyond that now. There's a high probability of an all-out strike by inter-county players over the next few years, which will wreck the national leagues and/or the championships. In truth, it might be no bad thing as it would force everybody -- players, administrators, general GAA membership and supporters -- to decide what exactly they want from their association. As things stand, there's a whole lot of uncertainty in the mix. The GPA stresses that 'pay for play' is not on the agenda, but for how long will that last? However sincere Dessie Farrell and the current GPA leadership may be about retaining the GAA as an amateur organisation, they would have to react to grassroots pressure if a campaign was launched to press the pay-for-play case. What's more, Croke Park knows that, which is why they are being extremely careful so as not to be outmanoeuvred. It's one of the reasons they won't countenance paying a flat rate of 5pc of anything to the GPA. If they agreed and the demand was increased to 10pc in a few years' time, where would it leave Croke Park? They would no longer be arguing about the general principle of paying a flat percentage but rather about the amount. In effect, they would have conceded a principle and left the door ajar for a pay-for-play demand later on. While it's easy to appreciate why Croke Park are being so cautious in their negotiations, it's less easy to understand their overall strategy regarding 'pay for play', which will be a major issue if the current generation of 17-18-year-olds continue with their present line of thinking. An Irish Independent survey conducted among 500 students (17-18 year age bracket) last year showed 65pc in favour of 'pay for play'. Over 70pc believed that the GAA could afford a semi-professional game. If that's a snapshot of what's coming then the GPA will be a far more militant organisation in five years' time. Croke Park's response to the pay-for-play issue has been to fend it off with an army of long-held platitudes which are no longer fit for purpose, if, indeed, they ever were. The standard Croke Park line is that any form of 'pay for play' would wreck the GAA financially, structurally and in terms of attracting volunteers. It's as if a mantra has become official policy based on nothing more substantial than an assumption that change is automatically dangerous. Would 'pay for play' bankrupt the GAA? We simply don't know because it has never been costed and analysed by independent experts. Would it wreck the GAA structurally? Again, we don't know because no examination has been carried out there either. Instead, all we have to go on are sweeping declarations that pay for play would lead to financial problems and also lead to players crossing county boundaries, thus wrecking the existing model. Again, no research or analysis, but it's still put forward as a strong plank of the Croke Park position. As for claims that volunteers would desert the GAA in droves if the top players were being paid even a small amount, there's no evidence to support that. Professional sports all over the world continue to attract volunteers simply because they want to work with youngsters. I'm not advocating 'pay for play', but neither am I ruling it out on the basis that the conventional wisdom as espoused by Croke Park is automatically correct. It may not be. A detailed study of the implications of 'pay for play' needs to be undertaken so that when the battle lines are finally drawn -- as they most assuredly will over the next 5-10 years -- the GAA membership is drawing from something more reliable than hunches, hearsay and hysteria. Inter-county players have never been more powerful than at present. As the main wealth-generators in an organisation whose earning capacity has increased beyond recognition over the past 20 years, they know how much control they can exert. Refuse to play and the income streams dry up immediately. That's a mighty potent weapon to have at their disposal, which makes it all the more important that it be handled extremely carefully. Can one generation of players demand that an organisation built up over such a long period changes its ethos, principles and direction just because they demand it? They may regard administrators as ancient fossils who really aren't in touch with the modern world, but it's not that simple. Obviously, administrators can't compete with players in terms of public esteem, but their role in building and maintaining the GAA as a vibrant, thriving sporting organisation in a small island on the western rim of Europe should never be dismissed or demeaned. It's quite a feat that, in a world dominated by so many international sports, the GAA has built such a successful structure in Ireland. No one group or generation can claim responsibility and that includes current or future inter-county players, even if they do represent the glamour wing of the organisation. The GAA has faced many challenges over its 125-year history, but is probably heading into the biggest storms of all over the next decade. The pay-for-pay issue simply won't go away in an organisation which has seen its financial yields soar so dramatically over the past 20 years. In 1988, central gate receipts, commercial and TV rights yielded €2.4m. By 1998, it had increased to €9.7m while in 2008 it had reached €58.2m. It will decline during the recession, but it's unlikely to drop below €50m and will rise again once the economy improves. And for as long as Croke Park continues to report annual returns of that magnitude, 'pay for play' will remain an issue. Handling it skilfully presents an enormous challenge both for administrators and players, maybe even the biggest in GAA history. 
