sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    December 10 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eugene-mcgee/gpa-can-survive-if-they-expand-their-portfolio-26337752.html }
The high-profile members of the GPA must feel that all their Christmases have come together with the Central Council ratification of the now infamous government grant scheme on Saturday. Getting the deal with the Government, Sports Council and GAA through all the various hoops was an achievement in itself but to have Central Council in effect copper-fasten it against the protesters that came out of the woodwork last week was the icing on the cake. But despite undoubted success on this issue, the future role of that organisation within the overall GAA scheme of things is not by any means clear. As far as the GAA public is concerned, the GPA has so far been a single issue body concerned only with the government grant scheme. With this put to bed, many are asking what the GPA will now focus on? As the events of last week show, clearly there is a huge range of emotions about inter-county players in the wider GAA family and it is obvious that one of the strongest is jealousy. I have always maintained, and last week's outbursts have strengthened my view, that many GAA officials have little or no time for inter-county players. These people regard themselves as the people who really matter in the GAA having convinced themselves they are martyrs to the GAA cause, and generally give the impression the GAA could not survive without them. They see the popular county players as rivals for the public's attention and indeed county team managers are often regarded in that light too. Last week gave them the chance to screw the county stars and boy did they revel in doing so. The venom that emerged in speeches and on internet sites towards county players in recent weeks has been really shocking even by GAA standards. This is amazing when one considers how popular the great inter-county stars are in their own localities, and it just shows how a tiny minority can use modern communication methods to spread venom, hatred and defamation against county players, usually anonymously. Is this really the GAA we all know and love? Bitterness Therein lies one of the greatest challenges for the GPA. As the organisation representing these players, it has become the focal point for all the bitterness and derisory comment. The use of the strike threat turned thousands of GAA people away from the GPA. Now there is great hostility to the organisation and how the GPA will set about addressing that will define its future role. Obviously the GPA will seek to gain official recognition from the GAA which is a necessity if the GPA is to become acceptable to rank-and-file GAA people. But it will not be easy and the GAA is sure to strike a very hard bargain for such recognition with terms that the GPA will find difficult to swallow, such as operating strictly according to the GAA Official Guide. That would rule out any future strikes, for example. But the GPA needs to do a lot more if it wants to win the hearts and minds of ordinary GAA members. There is a substantial anti-GPA lobby, particularly in the 'Six Counties,' which will be merciless in its efforts to insult and destroy the body. The GPA needs to start playing an active role in many other areas of GAA activity such as coaching, demanding a better deal for club players with regard to fixtures, making submissions about controversial matters -- such as playing rule changes -- and how competitions are run. At its AGM last month, the GPA did pass motions to make representations to the GAA on four items: setting up a twinning system, whereby stronger and weaker hurling counties are paired for the purpose of promoting hurling; asking the Munster Council to reverse its recent decision about seeding its football championship; to ask the Hurling Development Committee to review the recently adapted hurling championship structures; to make representations on behalf of the Division 4 teams who have been excluded from the All-Ireland qualifiers. This is the sort of thing the GPA needs to get more actively involved in on a day-to-day basis. Has the GPA a view, for example, on the proposed abolition of the Minor and U-21 grades and replacing them with a new U-19 competition? Uncaring The GPA should be in a position to ballot its members on matters like these and inform us what the players think. GAA people would regard that as a useful exercise. Obviously the arrival of a player welfare officer in Croker has undermined the GPA's role in that regard but there is plenty of scope for both. From my experience, there are many forms of abuse and neglect which players at all levels are subjected to by uncaring officials and they all need to have recourse to somebody. I was interested to note that some of the most virulent anti-GPA comments last week came from those people who played key roles in the neglect of players in recent years. The GPA's biggest challenge is to show the same level of interest in club players as county stars. That, in the long term, will be the ultimate test and unless they do that they will always be called elitist, which seems to have become the strongest term of abuse one can use in the GAA. Of course, county players are elite because by definition they are the best players in each county. It is that very fact that has played a major part in the GAA being what it is today. The county players fill the stadiums, excite thousands of fans, attract mass media coverage and are pivotal in bringing in millions in gate receipts to the GAA each year. If that's elitism then county players are elite alright. It is time to stop talking about county players getting money because many of those talking are hypocrites as they come from clubs who illegally pay managers large fees. County board officers, too, should think twice before attacking county players about money since many of these are complicit in breaking Rule 11 as regards payment to county managers. In addition it is well known that for decades many county boards siphoned off money from national league home games before making returns to Croke Park. Glass houses, stones and all that. The GPA can have a useful future provided it is officially recognised by the GAA and operates according to normal GAA protocol, as defined by the Official Guide. If that does not happen quickly we will just have more instances of the internal savagery that has afflicted the GAA in recent months, sparked off by the GPA's campaigns. It is time for all sides to learn hard lessons and the quicker we all get back to playing and watching inter-county games the better. 
