sport gaa
{  
    February 28 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/lowry-ban-a-throwback-to-bad-old-days-26125145.html }
By EUGENE McGEE    IN THEORY, all GAA team managers should be quaking in  their boots this week. Last week one of their number, Brendan Lowry was IN THEORY, all GAA team managers should be quaking in their boots this week. Last week one of their number, Brendan Lowry was handed a six-month suspension by the Leinster Council for allegedly misconducting himself at the O'Byrne Cup final between his team, Westmeath, and Longford. If we are to take this decision at its face value, we can expect similar suspensions during the coming season for any other manager who runs onto the pitch, criticises a referee or walks in front of the lens of a television camera during a live match all heinous offences in the minds of GAA officials. That should spell bad news for several other team managers who are forever doing the same things, but will not if past GAA judgements are anything to go by. Because as in all aspects of GAA activity, there are two categories of team manager in the the organisation those who matter and those who don't. It's unfortunate for Brendan Lowry that he is listed among the latter at present. If he were as famous as Sean Boylan, Ger Loughnane, Jimmy Barry-Murphy or John O'Mahony he would have had little to worry about. Can anyone remember the last time the Leinster Council, or any other GAA body, handed out a six-month suspension to a well-known team manager? Of course, the GAA has often `punished' managers or selectors by imposing the savage penalty of making them sit among the general public rather than in the dugout for one or more matches. That cosmetic punishment causes more merriment among fans than they usually get after deliberations of GAA committees. Brendan Lowry was reported by the referee for `an on-field incursion', something which is part and parcel of all GAA matches, to a greater or lesser extent. The crime on its own would not have been enough to warrant a six-month suspension but for the emergence of a new breed of GAA official on the scene recently, a match-monitor. I have searched the Official Guide of the GAA, but failed to find any mention of this latest species of GAA official. Could it be that they are the successor of the old Vigilante Committees that existed in the days of the Ban? For the benefit of younger readers, I should explain that up to 1971, the GAA suspended any person who played soccer, rugby and hockey or who attended such games. In order to get evidence of such terrible crimes against the Irish nation, the GAA set up in each county its own secret police force called Vigilante Committees. Membership of these committees was composed of two GAA types. There were the out-and-out Fior Gaels, who hated foreign games, but they were often joined by liberal GAA officials, who loved watching soccer or rugby and saw membership of the Vigilante Committee as the means by which they could do so without being suspended. Now, apparently, we have match-monitors who can snoop around and report anything they deem as not in keeping with the ideals of the GAA to the body controlling the match. These monitors remain anonymous, it would appear. I know there have been people appointed to monitor referees' performances in recent years, in an effort to improve the quality of refereeing, and that is fine. But if these, or other monitors, are now to have power to secretly spy on managers and players and their reports to have a role in disciplinary decisions then the GAA has surely lost its way. As I have often pointed out before , no games in the world has as many officials supposed to be in charge as Gaelic football and hurling. Soccer has three, so has rugby, while Aussie Rules has four. But in GAA we have seven officials at every match. Now it would appear that even they cannot be trusted to see everything which happens, and we need another spy in the stand. Yet, when a blatant and irrevocable blunder is made it often happens that no official has seen anything wrong. Remember the perfectly good goal scored by Tipperary against Kerry in the Munster championship last year? SO how many more snoops do the GAA need to enforce their laws? Will they have somebody hiding in the dressingrooms to catch out managers who are inclined to use inflammatory language when giving pre-match or half time pep-talks? Will they have a medical snoop to ensure drinks given to the players are drug free? On reflection, perhaps we should not mention drugs, because the GAA seems to believe that only people who play other sports would dabble in illegal stimulants. And to think I once had a player on a team who couldn't perform in the second half unless he had a `Baby Power' at halftime! The nature of GAA games is such that a manager must communicate with his players during a game. In most big match situations, with a volatile crowd, as the O'Byrne Cup final certainly was, that is impossible from the sidelines. The great pity is that the GAA is not prepared to try out the Aussie Rules `Runner.' This person is used by each team to go onto the playing area at any time to make switches, check injured players, etc. It works very well and is hardly noticed by the crowd. The odd incursion by a team official is a small price to pay for effective management of any GAA team. It goes on all the time at club matches, colleges matches and under-age matches so what's wrong with it at adult level? And which is the worse offence to hit a player a box, kick a player on the ground or constantly foul your opponent off the ball, or have your manager run onto the field to talk to one of his players or give him a drink? In the meantime, we will sit back and wait for a big name team manager to be suspended this year. Because unless things change this season in comparison with the past few years, several managers will commit worse offences than Brendan Lowry did. But suspensions I doubt it. Suspensions in the GAA are often only for the `little people.' e-mail: emcgee@hotbot.com 
