sport gaa
{  
    January 27 2015 02:28 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/localnotes/around-the-districts-ballygarrett-and-beyond-30942129.html }
Macamores Athletic Club -  The Club's rescheduled AGM took place on Tuesday, 27th January in Réalt na Mara GAA Club, Ballygarrett. This was an opportunity to influence the running of the club, and key decisions for the next year of the club were decided at the AGM. The committee appreciate the help the members' families gave over the last year. Youth Club Dates for your Diary: Disco 30th January in Bree, Tag Rugby/ Dodgeball 27th February and our ever popular Youth Factor takes place in Oylegate on 20th March. The Club is held every Friday night in Killenagh Soccer Clubhouse 8.00 pm-9.30 pm. All are welcome, also open to surrounding areas. For further details check out our facebook page or contact 087-8123979. Camogie news The Réalt na Mara Ballygarrett GAA Club Camogie section is looking for a sponsor to assist in the coaching and purchase of jerseys and equipment. For further details, contact Lisa on 086 8121739. The support would be greatly appreciated. Poker Classic Ballygarrett Réalt na Mara GAA Club is holding a Five Card Poker Classic in Ballygarrett GAA complex on Friday, 30th January at 8pm. There's €1,000 prize money. Tickets are €20, and are available on the door or from committee members. The event will have a bar and refreshments. GAA Blotto There was no jackpot winner in last week's Réalt na Mara Ballygarrett GAA Club Blotto Draw. The numbers picked were: 3, 18, 19, and 23. The €20 lucky dip winners were: Anne Whelan; Kellie Breen; Karl Noone; Fr William Howell; and Jerry Solar. The five free tickets winner was Paul Smyth. This week's jackpot rose to €3,100. Ladies club It is hopeful that a Ladies Club will be set up in Riverchapel Community Centre. There will be a meeting held in the Centre at 7.30p.m. on Monday February 2. If you are interested come along where there will be more information given or you can phone Monica on 086 3580122. Service Times The service times for the Ardamine Union of churches this Sunday, February 1, are as follows: Monamolin, 9 a.m. MP The Rector; Ardamine, 10.15 a.m. HC The Rector; Kilnamanagh, 11.45 a.m. HC The Rector. Riverchapel Whist At the Riverchapel whist drive last Thursday night, the results were as follows: ladies' section: 1, Mary McCarthy, Arlene Dooley, and Peg Kennedy; half-time, Bernie Kinsella and May Chambers. Gents' section: 1, Molly Beckett; 2, Patsy Kinsella; 3, Beta Gahan; half-time, Cyril Byrne. The whist drive starts at 8.30 p.m. sharp and all are welcome. Mass Times Mass times in Star of the Sea Riverchapel are as follows: Saturday Vigil Mass is at 6 p.m. Sundays are at 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. Réalt na Mara Camogie The Réalt na Mara Ballygarrett GAA Club Camogie section is looking for a sponsor to assist in the coaching and purchase of jerseys and equipment. For further details, contact Lisa on 086 8121739. The support would be greatly appreciated. Poker Classic Ballygarrett Réalt na Mara GAA Club is holding a Five Card Poker Classic in Ballygarrett GAA complex on Friday, January 30, at 8 p.m. There's €1,000 prize money. Tickets are €20, and are available on the door or from committee members. The event will have a bar and refreshments. So come on and get those poker faces on, and maybe lady luck might shine on the night, or you might bluff your way to winning the grand prize. Macamores Athletic Club Macamores Athletic Club's rescheduled AGM will take place on Tuesday, January 27, at 7.30 p.m. in Réalt na Mara GAA Club, Ballygarrett. Every member should be represented. This is the opportunity to influence the running of the club, and key decisions for the next year of the club will be decided at the AGM. We'll also make time for refreshments. The committee appreciate the help the members' families gave over the last year and look forward to seeing the AGM well supported. Training will resume for the U9's and older only on Wednesday, January 28, at the GAA club from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. Books wanted Riverchapel School is currently seeking donations of children's books suitable for ages 4 to 12, in good condition, for the school library. Donations of books may be left into the school and would be gratefully accepted. Junior Scór Well done to the Réalt na Mara Ballygarrett GAA Club Junior Scór Group on reaching the Leinster final. Well done to all involved. Réalt na Mara Blotto There was no jackpot winner in last week's Réalt na Mara Ballygarrett GAA Club Blotto Draw. The numbers picked were: 3, 18, 19, and 23. The €20 lucky dip winners were: Anne Whelan; Kellie Breen; Karl Noone; Fr William Howell; and Jerry Solar. The five free tickets winner was Paul Smyth. This week's jackpot rose to €3,100. Enrolments St. Joseph's Primary School Kilmuckridge Are now enrolling for 2015/2016. Application forms can be obtained from the office or by contacting the school secretary on 053 9130144. Resource Centre Little Acorns are now enrolling for 2015/2016. ECCE and CCS places available. Please phone 0539130393 for further information or pop in to our office. Parent & Toddler Group meets every Thursday from 10am-12 noon in the pre-fab at the front of St Joseph's National school Kilmuckridge. Phone: Caroline 0539130393. All Ireland Drama The All Ireland Confined Drama Festival finals are being hosted by the local Kilmuckridge Drama Festival Committee from Friday 10th to Saturday 18th April 2015. Please take note that vouchers for season tickets are now available contact 0871712549 for nine night season ticket €120 / eight night season ticket €110 this ticket excludes opening night Friday 10th April. Singing & Swinging Pubs Buffers Alley GAA Club will host a Singing and Swinging Pubs competition commencing in February. This local entertainment tour is expected to draw huge crowds where we will see first-hand the quality of expanding talent in the area with some guest artistes certain to make an entrance. Lawless' Pub Monamolin, Sean Óg's Kilmuckridge, Porter's Bar Killena, The Crosses Bar Kilmuckridge and Bridie & Joe Hammel's Bar Kilmuckridge will be holding nights with a number of singers/entertainers competing for a place in the grand finale to be held in Buffers Alley. Anyone interested or know of anyone who might like to perform, please contact Colm Óg Doran via email colmdoran1991@yahoo.ie or on 086-3308080. Also, the staff at all the pubs will be delighted to assist you. Each pub will have their own selection of regular singers but anyone that who would like to take part from outside will be very welcome. It is hoped that each venue will be packed to the rafters and an early arrival is advised to get a good spot. Audience participation is a must and these are events are not to be missed! Support Buffers Alley and the local business people. Macra na Feirme Are you aged between 17 and 35 and are you looking for something to do during the long Winter nights then why not join Blackwater Macra na Feirme. There are lots of things to do with sports, drama, travel, a wide range of competitions, socialising and other fun activities. tel: 087 9585376. Next on the clubs agenda is indoor soccer along with Intercounty Hurling and Camogie Blitz anyone interested in joining please tel: 0879585376 New members and old faces always welcome. GAA Table Quiz On Thursday 22nd January Buffers Alley will once again host a GAA Quiz in the clubhouse commencing at 8pm. sharp. Question Master on the night will be Tony Doran who is better known for scoring goals in his hurling days both for Wexford and Buffers Alley. Already there is interest from across the county and further afield. Tony, a real GAA Quiz enthusiast himself, has set questions so suit all ages with the majority concerning the last decade but a number of them will be based on happenings over the last three years. He expects teams to maintain the competitive edge to the end. Of course, as the final few rounds approach, he will throw in a few teasers to the divide the top teams. Entries will be taken on the night with four people per team. Don't worry if you haven't got your table organized in advance as teams will be put together before the Quiz commences to ensure everyone gets an opportunity to participate. A team cost €40 or £10 per person with refreshments included for half time. A great night lies ahead in the new comfortable surroundings in Buffers Alley with its own sound system. Come along, meet your friends and have an enjoyable few hours. Kettlebells Kettlebells is on Wednesdays at 7.15pm in KMH. Book now on 0872399423. Foroige youth club The youth club is now in full swing every Friday night from 7.30 to 9pm. This is for the 13-17 year age group and all new members are very welcome. There are lots of activities taking place at the club. Court N.S. news Enrolment forms are now available for September 2015 from Noeleen in the school office or by phoning the school on 053 9389342. Forms must be returned to the school on or before Friday 27th February. The link The Link Social Group meet every Wednesday in the Community centre from 2-4pm so if you are in the area do drop in, we welcome men and women of all ages. Singing & Swinging Pubs Buffers Alley GAA Club will host a Singing and Swinging Pubs competition commencing in February. This local entertainment tour is expected to draw huge crowds where we will see first-hand the quality of expanding talent in the area with some guest artistes certain to make an entrance. Lawless' Pub Monamolin, Sean Óg's Kilmuckridge, Porter's Bar Killena, The Crosses Bar Kilmuckridge and Bridie & Joe Hammel's Bar Kilmuckridge will be holding nights with a number of singers/entertainers competing for a place in the grand finale to be held in Buffers Alley. Anyone interested or know of anyone who might like to perform, please contact Colm Óg Doran via email colmdoran1991@yahoo.ie or on 086-3308080. Also, the staff at all the pubs will be delighted to assist you. Each pub will have their own selection of regular singers but anyone that who would like to take part from outside will be very welcome. It is hoped that each venue will be packed to the rafters and an early arrival is advised to get a good spot. Audience participation is a must and these are events are not to be missed! Support Buffers Alley and the local business people. GAA Table Quiz On Thursday 22nd January Buffers Alley will once again host a GAA Quiz in the clubhouse commencing at 8pm. sharp. Question Master on the night will be Tony Doran who is better known for scoring goals in his hurling days both for Wexford and Buffers Alley. Already there is interest from across the county and further afield. Tony, a real GAA Quiz enthusiast himself, has set questions so suit all ages with the majority concerning the last decade but a number of them will be based on happenings over the last three years. He expects teams to maintain the competitive edge to the end. Of course, as the final few rounds approach, he will throw in a few teasers to the divide the top teams. Entries will be taken on the night with four people per team. Don't worry if you haven't got your table organized in advance as teams will be put together before the Quiz commences to ensure everyone gets an opportunity to participate. A team cost €40 or £10 per person with refreshments included for half time. A great night lies ahead in the new comfortable surroundings in Buffers Alley with its own sound system. Come along, meet your friends and have an enjoyable few hours. Gorey Guardian 
