sport gaa
{ John O'Brien 
    April 09 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/battle-is-on-for-hearts-and-minds-26206888.html }
THE demographics are changing and the old stereotypes are being broken down. Once it was broadly accepted that the booming suburb of Tallaght was undisputed soccer terrain. They used to joke that it was something in the electricity pylons. "The old cliche is true," said Brian Kerr. "Foxrock doesn't produce many footballers and Tallaght doesn't produce many sailors." There was THE demographics are changing and the old stereotypes are being broken down. Once it was broadly accepted that the booming suburb of Tallaght was undisputed soccer terrain. They used to joke that it was something in the electricity pylons. "The old cliche is true," said Brian Kerr. "Foxrock doesn't produce many footballers and Tallaght doesn't produce many sailors." There was any amount of Robbie Keanes and Richard Dunnes to prove his point. Sailing has yet to show its face, but other sports have made significant inroads. Five years ago rugby in Tallaght had no vital life signs. A senior club had existed in the early 1990s, but it had died quickly and left no visible trace. Now, under the supervision of Gearóid Ferrick, rugby hasn't caught up with the other main sports. But it has made significant ground. Ferrick has two ways of getting his point across. First he assaults you with a barrage of evangelical zeal before finishing you off with statistics. According to an audit conducted by Brian Mullins, the IRFU are now reaching 3,000 kids in Tallaght through their schools' initiatives. Tallaght Youth Rugby Club now has a membership of 300. Last year they established an under-20 side, Tallaght Harlequins, which survives without Union funding. His buzzword is penetration. Tallaght is covered by 11 secondary schools. Rugby has a presence in all of them. Five are playing in a Leinster-based competition. "From a zero start," Ferrick says, "that's a major step forward." Of the area's 63 primary schools, they are working in 26. If the secondary schools tell them how much they've done, the primary schools tell them how much they have to do. The spread of rugby is no fluke or statistical quirk. Six years ago the Irish Sports Council gave each of the three main sports ?800,000 to invest in disadvantaged areas. The IRFU, uniquely, chose to plough it into Tallaght. Ferrick arrived in 1999 after 15 years spent merchant banking in England and Canada. He'd never set foot in the area but came without baggage or preconceptions. Tallaght's sheer enormity left him breathless and exhilarated. Today he oversees six full-time development officers and has secured a two-year extension on the original project. The goal, long-term, is to establish a club that will be community based and be able to stand on its own feet. He doesn't know how near they are yet, just that their target of increasing participation - "horizontal pathways" - is a worthwhile end in itself. While the FAI or the GAA wouldn't care to admit it, the spread of rugby in Tallaght has concentrated minds and increased vigilance. Ferrick feels they were caught out. "When we looked at the original tripartite programme for increasing participation in sport, we felt the GAA and the FAI cast their net far too wide," he says. "We had a very small focus, we set what we felt was an achievable target." 'Everyone in the association knows how big Tallaght is. It's a city in itself' The FAI's man in Tallaght is Tom O'Connor. But O'Connor is the association's regional development officer for all of south Dublin, a remit which extends as far south as Greystones and "bits of Kildare." His brief stretches from assisting with trials for international teams to players with special needs, summer camps and ladies' soccer. For help he can count on three part-time assistants. Volunteers still form the bedrock of the work that is being done. Good enough to have gone on trial at Manchester United, O'Connor spent 12 years in the army before becoming a full-time coach. As much as Ferrick, he exudes passion and zest for the task. If the FAI are playing catch-up, O'Connor reminds you where they are coming from. "When I started there were only four or five of us and we went countrywide," he says. "Now there are 21." They are taking baby steps. Last year the association started pilot schemes in four schools in Tallaght and Clondalkin. Now they've entered 12 and have plans to expand their base. "Everybody in the association knows how big Tallaght is," O'Connor says. "It's a city in itself. We know we have to go into primary schools. We hope to put structures in place where we'll have four or five full-time people." Because the population of Tallaght is so large - an estimated 180,000 - there should be enough kids to go around. Talented kids are always at a premium, though. Danny Behan is 18, a Leaving Certificate student at Firhouse Community College and a hugely promising out-half on Tallaght's under-20 rugby side. Typical of his breed, Behan excelled at most sports though, four years ago, the idea of playing rugby had barely occurred to him. Behan played Gaelic football for St James' Gaels and soccer for a local boys' club. A few years ago he was dropped for a Féile na nÓg game in favour of a player who was over-age. The team's manager was banned as a result and the experience cooled his appetite for GAA. A friend told him about the nascent rugby club in Tallaght and he went along to see for himself. He was hooked from the outset. People in his GAA club tried to convince him to stay. Three years ago he was part of a team that won a Leinster schools' title and they'd built strong friendships. But his father had been a rugby man and, while difficult, his decision was firm. "People in the club were disappointed," says Behan. "That was a talented team and it split up. But I don't regret moving to rugby. I like the way it's run and I think I'm better at it." Though pressure is often put on promising kids to decide one way or another, no one involved would exaggerate the extent of it. O'Connor reminds you of Templeogue United who share an all-weather pitch with St Jude's GAA club, Ferrick about the way rugby, soccer and GAA coaches get together to shuffle timetables so they don't all descend on schools at the same time. What is true is that, for whatever reasons, soccer and rugby people espouse a more liberal sporting ethos. Ferrick advocates the European model where the local council provides a central hub from which the various sports extend like the spokes of a wheel. O'Connor tells you about a group of Swedish coaches who came to Ireland to see why the country had reached No 12 on the FIFA rankings. O'Connor brought them to Templeogue and explained how a club with no paid officials was able to field 26 teams every week. "They were gobsmacked. They couldn't believe it. They were saying for every kid that goes training in Sweden the club gets a krona from the government. In Norway if there are three houses together they'll build a five-a-side pitch. That's their ethos." Not only do they have to contend with a government that pays lip service to sport, the FAI and IRFU have to face the might of the GAA which is formulating big plans for Tallaght. Dublin would never pull its weight while it left large areas of its population untouched According to Mick Cahill, the regional development officer for south Dublin, the GAA intends to plough ?7m into the region over the next three years. With largesse like that, the battle seems hopelessly lopsided. Cahill denies the plans are a knee-jerk response to the progress made by rival sports, particularly rugby. With four clubs already serving Tallaght, a strong GAA base already existed. The GAA just wasn't penetrating the kind of numbers its financial muscle entitled it to. As an offshoot of the Strategic Review Committee's report in 2001, it became clear that Dublin would never pull its weight at all levels of competition while it left large areas of its population largely untouched. Unlike the IRFU, they aren't starting from scratch. In a study it was found that 60 per cent of kids in the catchment area of Thomas Davis, Tallaght's biggest GAA club, were playing Gaelic football. The club are currently looking for funding to appoint a second full-time development officer, particularly to develop hurling. St Mark's and Croí Ró Naofa also have full-time coaching officers. The GAA, says Cahill, has 18 full-time coaching personnel in Dublin. By August they expect it to be 50. In Tallaght their methods are radical and, to some degree, ruthless. Croí Ró Naofa was established five years ago in the soccer stronghold of Killinarden. Maréid McMahon, urban project manager for the county board, has worked with the club for two years. Growth has been steady in both codes and plans, McMahon says, are in train to build a clubhouse. To succeed in such terrain, she targets kids at an increasingly young age. "You find that once kids reach a certain age their minds are generally made up. Especially in hurling, if a kid hasn't held a hurley before nine or 10 you can forget it." So she concentrates her energies on a younger age-group, particularly five and six-year-olds. "They don't usually start playing soccer until 10 or 11," she says. "We're trying to get them younger. It might give us the upper hand." As for Rule 42, the views are as diverse as they are anywhere. McMahon says she would like to see it go, Cahill is in favour of retention. Ferrick doesn't think his kids know what it is and don't much care. "They've no idea a ban was ever in place and would regard it as nonsensical." The kids just want to play, he says. Any green patch of land will do. 
