sport gaa
{  
    January 30 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/sport/end-of-an-era-in-wicklow-gaa-circles-34398786.html }
Mick Murphy will be missed. That's a given. And it's not said lightly or flippantly.  After 10 years in the role of Wicklow county secretary, and two as county administrator prior to that, the Cork native has retired from his position. But he will be missed. Evidence of that fact was presented at the first County Board meeting of 2016 in Aughrim recently, which was preceded by the reconvened County Convention. Mick Murphy had to attend because aspects of the County Convention had been held over for discussion ahead of the County Board meeting and, as Murphy had been secretary at Convention, he was obliged to attend the reconvened meeting. Those discussions passed by without much hullabaloo and, with that, Murphy had completed his last official duty, and he bounded off the raised platform where the county officials sit and walked with an air of carelessness down to the seat in the bottom corner; a seat normally reserved for outcast journalists, or lost hikers, or random homeless people seeking shelter on a cold night. The main County Board meeting then got underway, with new secretary Chris O'Connor assuming the role, and before long a vote was called and when the delegates' hands shot up in the air, the County Chairman Martin Coleman looked around for someone to count the votes. For a few seconds there was a stunned silence. Confusion reigned. A few mouths opened and shut. And then Martin Coleman spotted Mick Murphy down beside the poor, underpaid, underappreciated journalist in the corner and the Coleman eyebrows were raised. For anyone who hasn't witnessed the raising of the Coleman eyebrows it is a sight to behold. It is akin to a thunderclap from the heavens, a lightning strike of authority, a ferocious blast of command. Up stands Mick Murphy and the vote is counted without much ado and the Wicklow GAA world goes on. Disaster averted. It mightn't seem like much. Counting a vote. I'm not reducing Mick Murphy's job to something as insignificant as that. Mick Murphy was the man who helped tie things together at county level. Crossed 't's, dotted 'i's, paid things, checked things, engineered things, dismissed things, helped things, thought about things. It's probably fair to describe the job of county secretary as being one primarily based around balance, or finding the balance between clubs and officials, between county managers and clubs, between players and officials. The job would need skills in negotiation, in debate, in pacification, in reassurance, in organisation. Throw your average Joe or Josephine into the job of county secretary and you could well expect the majority of them to run fleeing from the county offices in Arklow while pulling their hair out and frothing from the mouth. Say what you want about Mick Murphy but he never ran from anything, never shirked responsibilities. Mick Murphy was there in good times and bad. Yes. Mick Murphy will most certainly be missed. It was at the County Convention of 2003 that Mick Murphy was elected as the then county administrator for the first time. "December 12", he says, as if the date is branded on to his brain. "They were starting to give counties an allowance for administrators," said Mick. "That changed about a year and a half to two years down the road because, funnily enough, it came up, there was a transfer going through, there was a bit of hassle with it, and I signed it, I've signed all the transfers, I signed everything for Wicklow, but, this particular one, another county fought it, and the argument they used was, according to rule, the secretary was supposed to sign it and I wasn't the secretary. When that happened they changed it around and full-time secretaries (were appointed). The rule did say secretary, it said nothing about administrators, asides from the fact that there were loads of them around at the time and they were all operating and everyone was signing things. But it's like most things; it's grand until somebody says, "that's not what the rule says"," he added. The affable Murphy was born and raised in County Cork and found himself being transported to the alien land of Wicklow almost immediately after his Leaving Certificate exams. But, his early years in Cork revolved around the GAA as his later life would in Wicklow. "I played (football and hurling) as a youngster at home in Cork. The football pitch was from here over to the trees over there. It was Ballincollig in Cork. "I moved to Wicklow for work at the end of June in 1976. I had a job in the post office. I started in the post office in March and I did from March to May as a kind of post office clerk and you got trained for 12 weeks and then they sent you to whatever post office had a vacancy, but in my case I was held up and they asked me did I want to do the Leaving Cert and I said I'd go back and do it for the record and then at the end of the Leaving Cert they said there was a vacancy in Wicklow and you're starting there on Monday. "I had no connection whatsoever. I didn't even know how to get to it (Wicklow). I didn't want to leave Cork. In those days it was a question of, I came up on the train to Dublin, I got the train down to Wicklow and you reported to the post office on a Monday and they put you in B&B for two nights and after that you were on your own. "You found your own place to stay and that was how it worked. I was here about a couple of years and, of course, I had an interest in the GAA and I used to go to matches when they were on and things like that, I was here two, two and a half years, and I had put in for a transfer to go back home and it would have taken time back in those days, it took two and a half years. "I was going out with my wife at the time, she's from Wicklow, and I hummed and hawed at the time. It didn't suit us. It was right in the middle of a school year, didn't suit her, there were no jobs going down there so I said, "leave the job go, I'll stay", and I'll put in for another transfer. "Funnily enough the next one came through after about a year but we kind of had, at that stage I was in Wicklow nearly four and a half year and I liked it. That 1976 was the best summer we had in years, we got about three months of sunshine and the banks were on strike as well so the post offices were busy with everyone coming in lodging their money so we were flat out. I liked Wicklow and I loved the seaside and I decided that I would stay," he said. It wasn't long until the GAA world came knocking on his door, first, and briefly it should be added, as a player, and then as an administrator. "I only played up as far as Under-16. I didn't play Minor, can't remember why. Don't think I played Minor. I may have played a little bit of Junior at the start. I never played football with Pat's, why I don't know. I played hurling with them but I gave it up as a dangerous game after playing once or twice. Beginnings in Pat's "I used to go to all the matches and when I was going with my wife. All her brothers were playing with Pat's. That's how I got in. I'd have known all the lads and you'd meet loads of people through the post office. "The post office was one of the best places to meet people. My wife used to always say, "who was that you said hello to?" And I'd say, "Oh that's so and so, he's related to such and such". And she'd say, "how do you know?" "But the post office was great to get to know people and I was in Wicklow for six years and I got to know every single part of all around Wicklow town out as far as Brittas Bay out as far as Rathdrum and Greenane. "I started off looking after teams with Eddie Leonard and Frank Naughton and some more, naturally enough when you're young lads are involved all the way up. So I took over as juvenile secretary for St Pat's and I did that for five years. I was on the North District board and I was on the Minor board as well. I was acting secretary in the North District board at the time. The North Board was very good grounding I have to say. Every club in the north east took part in every competition. Everyone of them. They all played and it all changed when they brought in the county leagues. It used to be more districts," said Mick. So the next obvious question for us was when did the former county secretary meet his wife? "Out in Rockfield in Bray. It was a nightclub at the time. It's still there, the building. It's terrible to see the waste on it. It hasn't been used for years. Just abandoned. "I went out there and I met herself, got engaged in 1982 and got married in 1983. In 1982 I done an internal exam in the post office and I actually got a job as a telephone officer and I went to Dublin. But you were kind of humming and hawing, there were better opportunities but you had to travel so I elected to go to Dublin. "I travelled from 1982 until 2003, train, or sometimes you drove but mainly on the train. I was based all over the city. I was in College Green, O'Connell Street, Fenian Street, all over the place. It was good. "And then, as I say, you get married, you have kids, I suppose I should say, even though she has no interest in the GAA, absolutely nothing, my wife - all her brothers play - Angela never had an interest. Would go to an odd match where the kids were involved but would have no interest. And yet the two young lads are mad into it, my daughter was interested, I suppose maybe it was because all her brothers were involved but she had no interest anyway. "We had three children, Mark, Rhona and Ian. They all had great interest. I remember when Rhona was 13 or 14 she would come down to Aughrim with me. She'd sell programmes with me, do the gate, she'd come down to Aughrim with me to County Board meetings and do the mics. They were mad into the GAA. Mark the same. They all played. "I remember Mark starting to play hurling up in St Pat's and he came home and said to me that "that's a mad man's game". And then the following week he came home after training and said "Mr Cornyn said I have to get a helmet". "He fell in love with hurling, absolutely loved it. He played all the way up to Minor. They won most things. "It was at a time when we had a good team and they won football and hurling all the way up and that helps to keep young lads going. They were in four Minor hurling finals in a row. We lost the last one. Bray won their first one that year. I think it was 2004. "Angela wouldn't really ask me one thing about the GAA. Maybe (meetings and the baggage of a life within the GAA annoyed her) at the start but she recognised, and we did discuss it before I took it, she knew, she was used to me going to matches and being out at meetings. So I suppose the way she looked at it, if you want to put it bluntly, this was a job and at least I was getting paid for it. "But, yes, I suppose, it was always awkward when things were on at the weekend. During the week it wasn't too bad but there were lots of things you were trying to work around at the weekend. "She accepted, in fairness, she accepted that this was part of the work and another thing was you either like the GAA or you don't, and with me I like the GAA and for me it was a job but I liked doing what I was doing. "I left Telecom, or Eircom as they were then, to take the job (of county secretary). It was getting to the stage, I was travelling from 1982 to 2003 and the roads were really starting to get busy and I used to get up in the morning at half six to be in work for 9pm and you could leave at 5pm and you wouldn't get home at 7. It was terrible. You were adding four hours a day to your job. "When this opportunity came up I said that at least I'll be in Wicklow. I'd be home in half an hour. I actually quiet liked getting away from the travelling. Alright you'd be going out at night for meetings but I must say, working under all the Chairman over the years, they always said you know make sure you go home if you have a meeting and get a few hours at home. "All my family were into the GAA at home. Weekends were GAA. You were going to a match on a Saturday or a Sunday. You knew nothing else. Cork was mad GAA, hurling or football," he added. In 2003 Murphy was elected to the role of county administrator and while he had served on numerous committees up to that point, he found the new role a challenging one in terms of extra workload and the demands of the job when it came to rules and regulations. "It was totally new to me in the sense that you were dealing with Leinster and Croke Park and you had to know the rules and regulations. "I suppose the first part of it was that I realised that you may get used to that rule book. That was your bible. If someone brought up something or if someone objected you had to go and find the rule and see if they had a case. "I started out on the disciplinary committee at the same time. But I was lucky as well. Jimmy Dunne was here at the time and he was a huge help. He'd say "this is what you need to do". Jimmy was a great man to say, "Step 1, step 2, step 3". His way was ascertain what happened and then this is what you do. He was great like that. "A lot of the people on committees were like myself, they had came up along the way and served on various committees and everyone was very helpful. If you needed to get a bit of information there was always someone. You had the likes of Jackie Napier, the likes of Mick Hagan, you could pick up the phone and ring those lads. It's the same with the likes of Andy O'Brien, Victor O'Shaughnessy, you had all those lads in the background and you could always ask for help. And gradually of course you accumulate the knowledge. "That said, I suppose I was lucky in that I can honestly say that while I would have had arguments and fallen out at various times with people in clubs, I never fell out with someone totally and most people would, even where the disciplinary was concerned, you'd write out and they'd appear during the week and you'd say "well, you struck here", and lads would make every sort of excuse and lads would sort of accept it. I can honestly say at the start I don't ever remember some lads saying, "Well I'm going to appeal this". They just took their two weeks or their four weeks and that was that. No one would really, it was very seldom, they might appeal a fine, but they never appeal a sentence. "That gradually changed. It's like everything, everyone got better knowledge of the rules, and everyone got hold of a rule book. It was the way the world was going. The GAA was no different. People question things more. They didn't accept that Mick Murphy was always right. Mick Murphy isn't always right. "I really must say I enjoyed it (the job) and to see the changes. When I started out it was still very basic for the county teams and there was a match on the weekend. They trained of a Tuesday and Thursday and now they're at five nights. "Things have changed an awful lot. We'd be looking for pitches; I could spend four or five hours ringing around for the hurlers and footballers. "You'd be ringing saying, "Any chance of getting the pitch there on Wednesday night?" You could be left ringing four or five clubs to try find a pitch. "But now the difference is huge. Even back six years when people went all over the county. At least now they know they're going to Ballinakill and everything is there and they're well looked after. "If you spoke to any lad who played for the county up until a few years ago the only thing they got was a jersey, socks and knicks, that was all they were guaranteed. "Now they don't have to buy boots, they get boots supplied. They get runners supplied. They get all their casual gear, all their training gear. In effect, at Senior level, they don't have to buy anything. I'm not saying anything is wrong with that. It's only right. If you have a lad bursting to get from Dublin for 7.30pm training, most of them don't have anything to eat before training, in fairness, you'd have to be giving them something afterwards. I'm only saying that things have changed. "I do think though, I think we're training too much. We need to, I'm not saying we don't need to, we do. Johnny Magee is trying to get his lads up to the level where they'll be able to compete against the likes of Meath and Kildare. And that's understandable. You have to, but, I think, and it's been said by a lot of people, Croke Park should say you can only train three times a week. Full stop. Any team. Now, if some lad wants to go away and do a night in the gym on his own, or two nights, you can't stop that. But we're gone to the stage now where we're doing all the training because we're trying to keep up with others and if we don't we've no hope," he said. But do we have hope even with the extra training? "Probably not to the same extent. I suppose in counties like ourselves you're probably hoping that you'll get, to get to have a chance I suppose, if you want to put it that way, I think we have to have certainly six or seven players of a very good standard in the team and then have another group that wouldn't be too far below to give yourself a chance. "If you had the likes of Seanie Furlong, Leighton Glynn, Kevin O'Brien, if you had Red Pat O'Byrne and one or two more like that. If you had them spread through the field you'd be saying to yourself, "Right, we have the bones of a team here and now we'll be able to build on". "But it's very hard at this moment in time, I mean you think about it, we don't have six stand-out fellows at Senior football that you'd say six of them would carry us. We just don't have them at the moment,". Why do we not have the players? And what does he see as the cause of Wicklow's lack of success? "We're caught in a little bit of trap here in that we're in the greater Dublin area but our two main centres of population, Bray and Greystones, would be more Dublin than Wicklow people. I would view it as such. And as such they would see themselves that way," offered Mick. "Greystones have done very well at the football and hurling and they've built up their club very well, but when you think of the population they have they should be. Likewise with Bray. "Are we getting the full lot? Probably not. It's probably the same with Wicklow town and Arklow and thinking about it, the east coast has so many other sports as well. Soccer is very strong. Rugby is really strong in the last couple of years. The good fellas, the lads good at all games, they have so many choices that we lose 30 or 40 per cent to soccer and rugby at least. "That's where we're losing out in a way. We're a county that needs to get everyone and to lose even three or four fellas it just takes an awful lot out of us. It's the same for a lot of counties. "I think we are improving. I really do. Possibly because we are in the greater Dublin area and the population is getting that much more now, I think there's a chance that we will get that bit better and, certainly, Ballinakill has given us a great boost in that we now have the facilities for all our underage teams. "I think the important thing there is if we could have a little bit of success at underage to bring them through. You do need that little breakthrough. Even if it was only getting to a Leinster Minor final. I think it's just at the moment, because we're not having the success; you're inclined to lose these fellas that are on the borderline where if they thought there was a chance of success at juvenile level they might stay. "I know they're talking about changing the rule at Minor and maybe that will assist us. I see it where a young lad is doing his leaving certificate and he's playing for Wicklow and he says, "Look, we might win the first round but we'll certainly get beaten in the second round, I'm going to stick to my studies", whereas that fella in Dublin is saying, "There's a chance I'm going to win something, at least a Leinster if not something else". So he'll stick at the Gaelic and fit in his studies. "I see it there with my own young lad. He was off there for a week from his course in U.C.C. and it was great, he was at home and he could go training with the lads (Wicklow Under-21 footballers). He was up in Ballinakill three times in the week, not a bother. He thought it was great. He studies during the day and it never bothered him. But you see he's in U.C.C. for the rest of the time and while he does his gym work and all that he's not able to (train with the team). "And that does effect us as well. You have fellas there going to Dublin (for college or work) and they don't want to be travelling all the time and they're in Dublin and it is probably hard whether some of them will give the full, you get some of them, but whether others will give you the full commitment and come back down and be prepared to train every time. It isn't straight forward. You have to think of a fella nowadays and if he's in college and things like that he has to watch out for himself and do his exams. "But I honestly do think we are moving forward. I do think we are improving, I know we haven't made the breakthrough, despite our best efforts, but I do think that some people see now that you have to be at a certain level to make the breakthrough. I think some people thought that the likes of Dublin and those teams just did it but they now realise from dealing with Johnny (Magee) that you have to have (a system). But what about the era of Mick O'Dwyer when that training was not around? "I would say we had a better team. That's a terrible thing to say and I would say that we had a better team when Hugh Kenny was in charge. "We were very unlucky. We had to play Antrim in the last game. Kildare were playing Down the same day up in Down and Kildare ending up drawing with Down and all we had to do was beat Antrim and we gave away a penalty and we ended up losing by a point and if we had won that game we would have been up in Division 1 football at the time. "That would have been a great benefit to us at the time. We had a very good team at the time," he said. Was there a period during the 12 years he toiled at the coal face that he would describe as the golden period? "I suppose it was Mick O'Dwyer's time. Whether you like it or not, Micko just generated that interest. I mean the numbers that turned up for his training, 120 or 130, to generate that sort, if you can do that all the time, at all the levels it would prove to us that we are probably getting most of our players". Why can't we get the players to commit? "I think it's a combination. For some players they reckon we're not going to be successful and they're not going to give the commitment. They're going to stick and do their college work and all that. With others it's just a case of they won't give the commitment. "I used to always remember Micko saying to people, "You'll only be playing for about 10 years. You have your whole life in front of you. Sure, what would you be doing? You'll be finished at 30 and you can do whatever you want from then on". "But fellas don't see it quite like that anymore. Now, I think he's actually quiet right when you think of it. If you're good enough I think you should give it a go for a few years. It's never easy but I do think that we probably just don't get the total commitment. What was it about the Mick O'Dwyer era that brought so much hope and optimism and why was it the golden era in his opinion?. "In the sense that we got the numbers, we had a great following in Aughrim. I always remember the middle game (of the three All-Ireland qualifiers). "I remember saying to Jimmy Dunne that day, we had been up in Aughrim since about half 4, and I remember it was lashing and I said, "there'll be no one, Jimmy, there'll be no one coming out in this rain". "And I remember come 6 or half 6, people started pouring through the gates. We certainly had a few thousand, three or four thousand. The water just ran in and out of me that day. We were soaked by the time the match was over but we didn't care. "The people hung around outside the dressing rooms and there's no doubt about it we don't have that level of interest now. "Maybe when things started going downhill in jobs and everything, maybe people suddenly started watching things and going away from it. You'd be inclined to think that they would do the opposite and go playing sport or something but I don't know, definitely Micko's time, for the level of interest and the level of followers and all that (was the golden time). But I do think that he had a good team at the time. "The one thing I would say that is really missing at the moment, that we need badly is a free taker. If we had a free taker last year I honestly think we would have beaten Meath. We would have got an extra few scores on the day and if we had got that equaliser the game could have changed. "That's what we're missing too. We've no big strong men up the middle. "We had Clancy, Daly from Blessington, Red Pat Byrne, Whackers Byrne from Wicklow, we had Philip Healy, all these men were 6ft 4" and they could run with the ball. "When (James) Stafford was in his prime he could catch a ball and break and do what he does at club level and the likes of those lads used to do that but we have no one who can do that and shake a fellow off. "We don't have that". One of the most controversial events during Mick Murphy's tenure was the transfer of Carlow's Thomas Walsh over to Wicklow. The furore in the media which followed Walsh's decision was staggering at the time and Mick Murphy says that there was a lot of calls from reporters during that time. "We were fielding a lot of calls. I remember it well. I didn't know the chap from Adam. Like everyone else you were hearing rumours that this fella was coming from Carlow and that he was coming to live in Wicklow and that he was going to transfer. All I heard about him was that he was going to transfer either to Bray or Greystones and he was coming to live around Bray or Greystones at the time. "Now, the big thing at the time was, people were saying that he had no job here but he actually was working for a crowd here at the time but all I can remember is that he gave me the proof that he was living in Greystones, in the new place there down on the bypass road and we were happy that that was his place of abode and we put the transfer through. "Carlow objected and blocked it for a period but it went through eventually but he certainly was of benefit to us. He was a good player and in fairness he was a down to earth guy. "Ah there was (a media storm). My attitude when fellas rang was, "look it, the transfer is going through, if Carlow object they object, they have a right to object, the same way we'd have a right to object if it was someone the opposite way and it goes to Leinster Council". "Like, it's not up to me to make the decision. As I said to one fella, "I signed it on behalf of Wicklow GAA. It goes into Leinster Council and that's it. They'll decide and you have a right to appeal". "It was, because Micko was involved, it really was in the paper for a good bit," he said. Does he think there was any long-term damage done to the relationship between Carlow Gaa and Wicklow GAA because of that transfer? "Ah no. I don't think it did us any damage (reputation wise or with our relations with Carlow GAA). People kind of realised the objection at the time and that was their right but I don't think that anyone fell out about it. People probably didn't agree with it, I suppose, what can you do if a fella says, "Look, I'm working over there, I'm living over there and I'm going to transfer". There's not a lot you can do and we get on great with the Carlow lads because I know most of them. Out of the 12-year period in which Mick Murphy effectively ensured the running of Wicklow GAA, we wondered what was the darkest or toughest period in the former secretary's opinion? "I suppose our toughest time, really, was over the last three or four years in that we were developing Ballinakill. We were developing the pitches, developing the building and as you can imagine, the cost was fairly substantial and maybe we didn't get it across to the clubs as well as we should have, but, I think, the clubs felt in some way that we were kind of trying to squeeze them at the time, trying to get money. But we weren't. "We were building this for Wicklow so that we would get on and have better facilities and have better everything and to improve. "It was, there's no doubt about it, both from a monetary point of view and the clubs took a long time to come around to realise that this thing would be of use to us. And, in all honesty, I think at this stage most clubs acknowledge that it was a good thing to do. "I feel that we are out of the worst of it. Again, similar with Aughrim. We had, I don't know if you could call it a stand, that we had there, but, I mean, it really didn't encourage anyone, but I suppose, we were coming to a stage where, people mightn't realise it, but certainly 40 or 50 per cent of people attending games were girls and women. And, whatever about fellas standing out in the wet, women and kids won't. They've no problem coming to a match and sitting in the stand but they're not like us, coming to a game and stand out and get soaked. Ok, some of them will. But very few. That was why we thought we had to go with change in Aughrim. It's not that we were mad to spend money but we felt that we needed to do it and in all honesty I think most people are delighted with the new stand and they're delighted now that we have done it. "And we only built what we needed. We didn't go mad. We built that we needed, that would suffice for all of our games, club games, finals, league games. If we get a bad day we will fit about 2,000 into the stand. "I do think that we're probably, I won't say we're out the worst end of it, but we're nearly, we're at the stage where we still need a lot of help from the clubs and, again, this is something that I feel we need to be able to get across to clubs maybe a bit better. "We do need their assistance to continue on because we obviously have a loan of over €400,000 that has to be paid off, that's on top of everything else, we're running Ballinakill, so I think if we explain it properly to clubs, if we can agree that we run, and we have our development draw, and if we run one or two other things in the year to help us pay these, I think the clubs will come on board. "Most of them have come on board for the development draw now. There's very few of them who haven't. I think it's a question of, if we can get it across to them in the right manner, I think the majority of clubs will come along with us and say, "look, ok, we know we have to pay it off over the next 10 years, ok, we'll support this or that event". "It is great, having been here for this length of time to see the complete change from when I started out, looking for pitches on a weekly basis for to set teams up, never knowing what you'd get, trying to then arrange food to be able to get there and to now having our own place like Ballinakill for our training and to have somewhere like Aughrim where we now have a nice facility where if it's a bad day we have somewhere where people can sit in. "If it's not, they can go to their usual haunt on the bank and it's great to have both. Because a lot of people have their habits ands they always go to the far side. Even the day we opened it officially, your man (the official guest) was laughing, there was more people on the bank than in the stand". Ballinakill does have some detractors, it has to be said. While it is, and will be for many generations, a fantastic development, the only logical explanation for any negativity would be the location and the weather. We wondered if Mick had any thoughts on the relevance of those concerns or alternative locations for the centre of excellence. "Years ago, and it was kind of before my time, just before my time, we did, my understanding of it is, they did look at land out beyond Ashford which would be on the main road. "But, I honestly think, we were always going to find it difficult to build a centre of excellence somewhere where we could keep everybody happy. "I suppose the ideal place would have been Laragh if you had enough ground. That would have been ideal because the west come up over the mountain, the rest come up from this side. "But, unfortunately, there just wasn't enough ground in Laragh. There just wasn't. We had to go and find a green field site. "Now, I accept that for coming to the west from there, while it's a straight-forward trek, it's not the shortest, but I think on the plus side everyone knows where they're going now for training and we have good facilities and at least it balances out and you can go in there and you can have your hot showers, sit down have a nice bit of food and get back in your car and be contented as you drive home again. "I just think that maybe we didn't sell it well enough to the clubs. I think that maybe the clubs thought it was going to be a white elephant. Maybe that's going over the top slightly on our clubs but I honestly did think that the clubs did feel that "Was this going to be a millstone around our necks?" I think there was a little bit of that about it. "Hindsight is great. You'd always change things looking back and maybe we should have approached things differently. Maybe we should have brought in the chairmen, secretaries, and treasurers, the main people in the clubs and said, "Look, this is what we're doing, this is the costs, this is the payments, we need to get assistance from the clubs". "It's not that it's anything different, I'm sure if you were to check with the likes of Kildare, I know that up there, every club is paying nearly three grand of a levy every single year for Hawkfield and I know up in Tyrone when they built it I think it was up around €5,500 per club. "I'd say it is a question of, they (the clubs) maybe felt that they weren't really apart if it. I certainly felt it from some people. "I never got into a real big row with people over it but I certainly felt from talking to some people over it that they thought we were going at this all wrong and that was the way they felt about it. I think the more, maybe we should try and find someway of trying to find a way of getting clubs more involved in it, maybe, I don't know, you could do something for kids there, have a blitz. "But that was the most pressure over the years. We did, in the development draw, get over the hump after two or three years and nearly all the clubs buy into it now, I mean really sell the tickets, but it wasn't that we thought that we were wrong or that we shouldn't have went ahead but, for a while there, it did feel like it was them and us. And so we have to ask what were the best times for Mick Murphy in his role of county secretary? "There's two, I suppose. When Harry Murphy was there and we won Division 4 because it had been so long coming. And the other one was the Tommy Murphy Cup. "The only regret I had: I felt that we let the Christy Ring slip out of our hands. We should have won it. They deserved to win it. They had a good team that year. They put in fierce effort," he said. With Mick Murphy resigning from the position the full-time aspect of the county secretary is no more. Chris O'Connor takes the reins in a volunteer capacity while the county will have a new role, that of operations manager, filled over the next few months. However, Mick feels that Croke Park have erred by getting rid of the full-time element of the secretary's job so quickly. "It's a different role (that of operations manager), in that the new role is more of finance. They'll be expected to bring in sponsorship and all that. But, what I'd say is that you're going to have targets you'll have to reach. "I think they made a mistake, I honestly think that Croke Park have made a mistake in getting rid of the full-time secretaries. I think that, especially for smaller counties, even if it was only for a period of time, I think we should have had that operations manager, even if they gave it to us for two of three years, even to bring in the sponsorship and to help get us in a better financial state, I think the amount of work that is going to fall on a voluntary secretary, I'll put it to you this way, most full time club secretaries in the bigger clubs will tell you that they don't have a minute. Now they're expecting a voluntary person to look after 39 clubs, management meetings, County Board meetings, plus other sub committees, look after county teams, be at matches, be at all championship games over the weekend. "Like, to me, you'd certainly want nothing else (to do). You certainly wouldn't do it if you had a day job. You wouldn't do it. I think that, to a degree, is a step backwards. "I can see what they're trying to so with the operations manager but I think they should have found some way, maybe make the voluntary part-time, but I do think it's very hard to expect the voluntary person to do the work for nothing. "The operations manager, ok, as I said to you, he's going to, I reckon, he's gong to have targets, it'll be like any job inside of business, you'll be expected to reach targets and if you don't there'll be questions asked, but you're getting well paid so you'll have no arguments. And any final words? "I'm not going to walk away from the GAA. I'll be involved somewhere along the line. I've said this to the Chairman and he's delighted that I will stay around. "But it is with a bit of sadness (that he is leaving), especially in a job where you're involved with people so much. "And it really is a job where you're involved with people so much. I will miss it. I will. "My wife said to me, "You better have something to do, because if you think you're going to come in and sit at home or whatever," but all jokes aside, I'd say she's probably worried because she knows the length of time I've been doing this and the amount of time it took up and I'd say she's afraid that I'll crack up with nothing to do. "But I'll do things with the county and I'll certainly do things with the club as well to keep going, there's no doubt about it. "I'm grateful for the time I had here. I really am. There were days when I was effin and blinding but they were far outweighed by the good days. "I really am delighted that we have Ballinakill up and running and we have Aughrim and, ok, there's always bits to do, there's always more to do, but they were the two major things we needed to do and it's nice to be here from start to finish and to see them completed, but, also, of course, that was done with the help of a lot of people. "There were a lot of people put a lot of time and effort into Ballinakill and Aughrim, people that do it voluntary. I wouldn't name anyone because I'd be afraid to leave someone out but there were loads of lads, loads of people. Massive time and effort," he said. Wicklow People 
