sport gaa
{  
    April 21 2008 04:16 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/other-sports/gaa-digest-sligo-host-successful-gaa-congress-27559243.html }
Sligo G.A.A. CO. Committee were hosts to the 2008 G.A.A. Congress in the Radisson Hotel last weekend.Everything went very well and the delegates were loud in their praises for the organisation they experienced and the hospitality shown to them. It was the first occasion since 1974 that the G.A.A. Congress was hosted by Sligo.The weekend proceedings began on Thursday evening,when the Cathaoirleach of Sligo Co. Council, Seamus Kilgallon and his colleagues hosted a Civic reception for the visiting G.A.A. officials and special guests.The Sligo G.A.A. Co. Committee are grateful to the Chairman and his colleagues for hono Proceedings commenced at 10a.m.sharp on Saturday morning and the business was conducted smoothly as the 31 motions on the clár . Obviously much attention was focussed on Motion No.2 which dealt with the proposed payment of awards to Senior inter-Co. players by the Minister for Arts,Sport and Tourism . There was a very reasonable debate on the issues involved,capably directed by G.A.A. President ,Nicky Brennan,and a valuable input from Ard Stiurthoir, Paraic Duffy. After a healthy and reasonable debate, the motion was carried by a large majority.Assurances were given by An t-Uachtaráin that the preservation of our amateur status would always be guaranteed and a sub-Committee was being set up by Ard-Comhairle to examine means to strengthen the preservation of our amateur status and to report to a special Congress. More than half the motions on the clár were dealt with when news reached us of the death of former President , Patrick Hillery R.I.P.. Business was suspended and Congress rose to observe a minutes silence in tribute to his memory. An t-Uachtaráin, Nicky Brennan then addressed the Congress and the content of his address was wide ranging and thought provoking.He spoke for over forty minutes and was particularly strong on what he termed "the growing culture of disrespect for our rules, regulations and match officials".He dwelt on several prominent topics in the G.A.A. world and urged delegates to participate actively in the celebrations next year to mark the 125th anniversary of the founding of Cumann Luthchleas Gael. In conclusion he thanked the Sligo Co. Committee for hosting Congress 2008. The vote for the President –Elect took place in the late afternoon. There were three candidates seeking to succeed Nicky Brennan. Our own experienced Central Council delegate Kieran Mc Dermott was a very competent Returning officer. When the votes were cast and counted, Christy Cooney ,who had been defeated in the Presidential race three years ago ,was declared the clear winner.The Youghal based Fás Area Supervisor will become the first Corkonian to assume the high office since the late Con.Murphy R.I.P. (1976-’79).He has vast experience in various capacities in the organisation,including a term as Chairman of the Munster Council.He appears to have all the attributes to make an excellent President,when Nicky Brennan steps down at Congress 2009. Before the conclusion of business ,tributes were paid to retiring G.A.A. P.R.O. Danny Lynch. The affable Kerryman will retire later this year after more than 20 years in his post. Shortly after Congress concluded ,Bishop Jones celebrated Mass in the hotel.It was a very special ceremony,with participation from G.A.A. officials and a large gathering of delegates.Sincere thanks to Bishop Jones for facilitating us despite his very busy schedule and for his kind words of appreciation and encouragement.Our thanks also to all who contributed in any way and to Mary Quinn, wife of Lauri ,who led the impromptu choir at Mass. Congress 2008 was brought to a fitting conclusion with the Congress Banquet on Saturday night.Invited guests included. Bishop Jones, Rev. Alan Mitchell and his wife, Seamus Kilgallon, Chairman of Sligo Co. Council and his wife and Hubert Kearns, Co. Manager.Our Chairman ,John Murphy made a number of presentations to the visiting Croke Park officials and thanked everybody who helped to make Congress 2008 a successful and memorable gathering. Excellent traditional Irish entertainment was provided by Niamh Farrell and friends from Sligo and the Kearns family and friends from Ballinabole, Ballymote.Our sincere thanks to them all and to the organiser , our own Irish and Cultural Officer ,Mairead Gonley. Their outstanding show was a fitting conclusion to a memorable weekend. Visiting delegates left the Yeats county with a positive impression,which we hope will have a spin-off of increased tourist numbers in Sligo in the years ahead. A special word of thanks is due to the stewards at Congress ,who did a wonderful job . The stewards were mainly from the local Drumcliffe/Rosses Point G.A.A. club and Sligo Co. Committee wish to thank them sincerely for their assistance. Overall it was a very special weekend for the G.A.A. in Sligo and one that we hope will hold special memories for our visitors from all over Ireland and our units abroad,for many years to come. Next weekend it’s back to the more mundane matter of the final round of the Allianz football league. Sligo travel to Pearse Park, Longford in the knowledge that nothing less than at least a three points winning margin will guarantee the retention of our Div. 3 status for next season and a place in the Qualifiers. Longford are currently have four points on the league table,while Sligo are bottom of the table on two points.Down’s victory over Limerick in their rescheduled game on Sunday last means that Limerick, Leitrim and ourselves are all in danger of the dreaded drop to Div. 4 ,depending on results of Sunday’s games. Indeed ,Longford would probably feel safer if they could gain a point of even two on Sunday.Limerick host Leitrim on Sunday and no doubt both sides will strive to gain the valuable points.It all makes for a most intriguing climax to the league, and many of the final round games are likely to be contested like the championship. Nicky Brennan in his Presidential Speech to Congress said "I continue to be highly impressed at the levels of commitment, volunteerism and loyalty I witness on my travels around Ireland and Overseas. Whether it is in urban or rural areas, our clubs are at the centre of every community. I am very pleased at the manner in which our recent Special Congress accepted the recommendations relating to the provision of a more balanced programme of activities between club and county. We will shortly set about developing the charter, as agreed at the Special Congress, to ensure we deliver on what was approved. I am confident that this will help to address the imbalance which was skewed in favour of the inter-county scene back towards club activities. We are currently piloting a new electronic membership system and this will go live for all units in January 2009. The lack of a proper membership database causes us many difficulties and I look forward to seeing this issue finalised over the coming months." CITY BOARD’S MULTICULTURAL DAY The multicultural day organised by Sligo City GAA Board attracted children and parents to Kent Park on Saturday April 13th, last. The children who attend local schools came from 11 different nations and they saw hurling and football games and skills being demonstrated by boys and girls from the city area.The event was financed by Sligo Sport and Recreation Partnership as part of their Anti Racism Programme. The event was attended by Sean Kelly past president of the GAA, Kieran Leddy,of the GAA’s Multicultural and Intergration Committee, Jimmy Darcy, National Games Development and Coaching Committee both based in Croke Park, Peter McHugh, Chairman ,Coiste na nOg, Cyril Feehily Vice-Chairman, Sligo County Board. Coaching was conducted by Liam og Gormley, Sligo Games Manager with his team of coasches as well as club members from Naomh Eoin ,Calry St Josephs and St Marys. This was such a worth while event for all those present and it gives us all a wonderful oppuriniuty to get know our new Irish through our sport To our Connacht Council Representative Eamon Mullin on the death of his aunt Bridget Brennan, Dublin Ar dheis De go raibh a anam. 
