sport gaa
{  
    June 18 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27369693.html }
Abbeydorney CLUBHOUSE: Saturday - Music with Heart to Heart. Sunday - Music with Mike Condon. Athea Athea community council held their lucky numbers draw on Saturday night last at Batt’s Bar. There was a Jackpot of ?4,700 on offer. There was no outright winner however The numbers drawn were7, 18, 20, 21. Other lucky dip winners were ?50 Bridie Brounder Templglantine ?30 Dan Griffin Coole West ?20 x 4 Dan Griffin- Coole west Jimmy Wrenn-c/o Cairde Duchain Jack Keane Upper Athea Haulie Collins - Knocknagorna Sellers prize - Sal Browne and Domhaill de Burca. There will be no draw next week due to the motorcycle race. The next draw will be on Sat 28th at Whites and the jackpot will be ?4,800. By buying a ticket you helping to “Build a Bridge” here in Athea which will be invaluable to both young and old. Readers: at masses this weekend are 8pm: Tom 0’Keeffe 9am Sal Power 10.15am John Redmond. Note the change of mass times on the Sunday due to the motorcycle race. Community Games: Next weekend before all masses the annual community games collection will be taken up. Your support for this collection would be greatly received. Ladies Football: Don’t forget the grand fund raising football dance for the Athea ladies club which takes place at the gables on July 5th music by Murray and Shannon. There will also be a draw held on the night for which tickets cost ?2 a line with cash prizes you are asked to buy a line or two thereby helping the club. Community IT access Tarbert will be running a city and guilds certified course starting on July 29th for 5 weeks, Two evenings per week (Tuesday and Thursday) cost ?200. To reserve a place on the course you are asked to contact The centre on 068/-36938/-36939. Sympathy: Sincere sympathy is extended to Peg Mulvihill and Family of Blaine and the Lynch family of Ballyguiltenane on the death of Johnny recently. Retirement: Retirment of Mick Kelly fas supervisor who gave great advice to the community. Presentations were made to Mick and his wife. PILGRIMAGE; The annual pilgrimage to Croagh Patrick is being organised for the first Sunday in July which is the 6th. The numbers of seats are limited so early booking is advisable to avoid disappointment. A deposit is required all deposits to be paid by June 29th The bus will leave the village at 7am for further details contact Patsy Hayes at 068-42249. Names can also be given to Dan O’Sullivan at Bridge End filling Station on 068 -42144. GAA the GAA 500 draw was held on Saturday night. Well done to the lucky winners who are the following:?500 Sean Mullhane - Knocknagorna ?250 Cillian Liston- Cortnagross ?150 Mary B Mullane Knocknagorna ? 100 Jim and Mary O’Sullivan the lane Betty Cotter top of the town. ?65x8 Chris Vaughan Dirren Peg O’Connor Athea Post office Mike and Catherine mcauliffe lower Athea. Graduation Mass A mass for 6th class students will take place on June 20 at 8pm. Ballyduff LOTTO: The results of the Ballyduff Community games and Ladies Walk hurling club weekly lotto for Monday, June 9 held at Barons Bunker are as follows. The numbers drawn were 10, 12, 15, 18. There was no jackpot winner and the following won ?50 each. Kevin O’Halloran, Ladies Walk, Gillian O’Leary, Clash, Sarah Ross, Rahela. TV DRAW: Dan Lynch, Clash, Bridget O’Connor, Bishopscourt, Michael O’Leary, Ardagh. SPORTSFIELD DEV DRAW: The Ballyduff GAA club sportsfield development draw will be held at Ballyduff Community Centre on this Saturday, June 21 at 9pm. Tickets are still available for this draw for prizes, ranging from ?1,000 to ?50. Tickets cost ?20, and are available from officers and members of the GAA club. All monies raised will go to the development of the local sportsfield. All moneys to be returned to Liam Ross or Paudie County, on or before Saturday. Your support in this venture is much appreciated. GAA MEETING: A very important meeting of the Ballyduff hurling and football club will be held at Ballyduff Central NS on this Thursday night, June 19 at 9.30pm. A number of important items including development draw, GAA,lotto, feile and fixtures are down for discussion. All officers and members are requested to attend. BALLINCROSSIG SCHOOL NEWS: Congrats to the pupils of Ballincrossig School on their success in the Beal Beo, Irish language recitation, and storytelling competitions, held recently during Writers Week in Listowel. Paraic Murray secured first place in recitation, while Laura Murphy and Robert McGrath came joint 2nd in storytelling. Owen Douglas and J P Barrett also performed well. Congratulations also to the Ballincrossig hurling team, on reaching the final, despite being the only two teacher school participating on their own in the division. Good luck to them in the final on Wednesday. FEILE NA NGAEL: Congratulations to our gallant U14 hurlers, who performed with distinction at the All Ireland feile na nGael competition at Trim, Co Meath last weekend. The boys won out their Div 2 group, with victories over Trim 4-7 to 4-1. Navan 0-19 to 1-1, and Carnew, Co Wicklow 4-7 to 0-2. In the semi final, Ballyduff came up against a stronger Ballyboden St Endas of Dublin, and even though the Ballyduff boys played their hearts out the Dublin side emerged victorious on a scoreline of 4-9 to 2-3. Each of the 20 players on the panel played their part in making this a very enjoyable weekend, and were a credit to their parents, Ballyduff GAA and Kerry GAA, throughout the whole weekend. Trim was the host club and many new friends were made over the weekend. A big thank you to Trim GAA Club and to the people of Trim for making us welcome and for housing the boys over the duration of the competition. Ballyduff participated in the Feile na nGael parade in Mulllingar on Saturday morning, before returning home to Ballyduff on that evening. The following was the Ballyduff panel, N Leen, K O’Carroll, M O’Connor, C White, J Bowler, P Costello, K O’Carroll, A Griffin, E Kennedy, B Lynch, B O’Carroll, Capt, P O’Carroll, J Enright, J Connolly, A O’Carroll, P Boyle, K Junior O’Connor, T Slattery, M Flavin, I Flavin and P Hussey. Well done also to team mentors Diarmuid O’Carroll, Tomas O’Sullivan and Liam Boyle (jun) J Flaherty of Lixnaw was also in the travelling party, and represented Kerry in the Feile skills, where he finished a very creditable 10th place out of 26 competitors. Ballyduff GAA club would like to thank our sponsors for Feile, parents and supporters who travelled in large numbers, Johnny Bunyan, our bus driver, Mike Houlihan, for coaching the team over the last few weeks, and to the organisers of the welcome home for the team on Saturday evening. As always your support is very much appreciated. ICA TOUR: Ballyduff ICA parish outing will take place on Tuesday, July 1. Details available from Mai at 0667148103 or Kathleen at 0667131128. Everybody welcome. GOLF SOCIETY: Ballyduff golf societies next outing is a trip to Birr golf club in County Offaly on Saturday, June 28. Tee times are reserved from 11.30am to 1pm. All names of those travelling should be with the society secretary as soon as possible. Please phone 0667131806 to book your place. DAWN TO DUSK: Lowes golf societys annual dawn to dusk charity outing takes place on this Saturday, June 231 at Ardfert golf club. The classic is in aid of local respite centre new residence in Listowel. Anybody wishing to participate or contribute to this worthy cause should contact the societys mobile number 0877857747. Proceeds from the event will be presented at a function in Lowes Bar on the same night. GRAVEYARD MASS: Mass will be celebrated in the New Cemetery, Causeway on Tuesday next, June 24 at 8pm. Everybody welcome. IRISH NIGHT: Ballyduff CCE will hold an Irish night at Browns Bar Kitchen on this Friday night, June 20. Musicians, singers, dancers and story tellers are welcome to attend. Come along for ceol, caint agus craic. Monday, June 23, Co SHL Div 1, Ballyduff v St Brendans at Ballyduff 8pm. Please check with club officers and team mentors, re above fixtures. Ballyheigue LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Saturday nights GAA lotto. 7, 12, 17, 20. The jackpot of ?1,650 was not won. Next weeks jackpot will be ?1,700. The two ?50 winners were Orla Griffin, Caherulla, Mike Dee, Chapel Rd. The ?25 winners was Joseph Regan, Tiershanahan. DEATHS: The death took place during the year of Tom Barrett, Glendahalan. He is survived by his brother, sisters and relatives. Burial on Wednesday in the New Cemetery, Ballyheigue. The death also took place of Pat O’Connor, Marian Park. He is survived by his daughters, brothers, sisters and relatives. Burial on Wednesday in the New Cemetery, Ballyheigue. Pat was an outstanding hurler in the 1940s. He played left full back with his three brothers, John, Willie and Laurence in the 1941 final against Crotta. Ballyheigue lost to Crotta in a replay. He was again in the 1946 Ballyheigue winning Co championship team, which was played in April 1947, against Kilmoyley. In 1948 he was on the loosing team against Kilmoyley. The following was the 1941 team Ticyie Casey, John Kearney, John O’Connor, Pat O’Connor, John O Halloran, Laurence O’Connor, Willie O’Connor, Paddy O’Mahony, Christy O’Mahony, Captain Patty Reidy, Timmy Reidy, Johnny Reidy. Fr James Godley, Patrick Godley, Michael Styles. Sympathy also to the Donegan family, Clanderies on the death of their brother, David. TABLE QUIZ: A table quiz, in aid of club Leanai will be held in the White Sands Hotel this Thursday night, June 19 at 9pm. Everybody welcome, spot prizes. GAA: The Ballyheigue Intermediate hurlers were defeated by Kilmoyley at Lerrig on Wednesday evening in the Div 2 Co league. Full time score Kilmoyley 1-12, Ballyheigue 0-8. The Ballyheigue senior hurlers defeated Crotta in a high scoring co league game, played on Saturday evening in Dromakee. Final score Ballyheigue 6-21, Crotta 2-12. The team and scorers were Patrick Corridan, Michael Lucid, Edward Power, Kevin O’Mahony, Colm Griffin, Kieran O’Sullivan, Noel Gilbride, Jason Griffin 0-2, Edmond Flahive, Brendan O’Sullivan 3-3, Damien Casey, Nicholas Stack 0-3, Alan Murphy 0-1, Mike Kenny 1-1, Michael Slattery 2-11. Subs used, Diarmuid O’Connor, Willie Joe Leen, Michael O’Leary. The u14 hurlers were defeated by St Brendans in the Co league at Ardfert on Sunday evening. Score St Brendans 1-6, Ballyheigue 0-5. BINGO: Every Thursday night in the Community Centre, at 9pm. FIXTURES: Co hurling league Div 2, Ballyheigue B v Ladies Walk at Ballyheigue this Wednesday evening 7.45. Co hurling league Div 1, Ballyheigue v Causeway at Ballyheigue this week end. The game may not go ahead due to Kerry hurlers against Derry. Check with officials. Senior football v Keel at Keel, Friday 8pm. COURSING: Lotto - The numbers drawn were 3, 8, 9, 24. There was no jackpot winner. ?50, Gatt Carey, c/o The Kerryman; ?50, Michelle O’Carroll, Lwr Village, Ballyheigue. Jackpot next week will be ?3800 in the Castle Arms. Sympathy - Is extended to the families of the following: Tom Barrett, Ballyheigue; Pat O’Connor, Ballyheigue; Dave Donegan, Causeway; Padraig Kirby, Tralee and Ballyheigue. ATHLETICS: Representing Ballyheigue in Ardfert Open Sports on Sunday last were as follows, Annie Galway, Aisling Guerin, Kate Dineen, Shaun O’Mahony, Thomas Casey, Ray Dineen, Tommy O’Mahony, Laura Galway, Mark Dineen, Dermot Lucid, Chris O’Mahony. The O’Mahony brothers, Chris, Tommy and Shaun all reached finals, collecting trophies Aisling Guerin u7 1st in 60m, 2nd in 80m, Laura Galway put in a great show of strength securing 3rd place in the 600m, u12, Mark Dineen fought off some very stiff competition to take 2nd place in the 100m u11. Running with the Tralee Harriers club, Niamh Guerin took home a bronze medal in the u13 relay, Ciara Walsh collected a trophy for 2nd place in the u11 300m, and a gold medal in the u11 mixed relay. Well done to you all. TEAGASC: The free Teagasc "Opportunities for Farm Families" programme open to Teagasc and non Teagasc clients will commence in Ballyheigue during June and is aimed at low to medium income farm households. The programme explores options to boost farm family income and improve quality of life. For information or to secure a place contact Gerard Hussey Teagasc 068 21266 or Derry Dillon at North Kerry Together, 58 Church St, Listowel (068) 23429. CCE: Church gate collection will take place this weekend in aid of the local Comhaltas shop. TEAGASC: The free Teagasc "Opportunities for Farm Families" programme open to Teagasc and non Teagasc clients will commence in Ballyheigue during June and is aimed at low to medium income farm households. The programme explores options to boost farm family income and improve quality of life. For information or to secure a place contact Gerard Hussey Teagasc 068 21266 or Derry Dillon at North Kerry Together, 58 Church St., Listowel (068) 23429. Ballylongford BASKETBALL: Congratulations to Andrina Carmody, Killelton, who scored 100 points for Presentation Listowel in the World Student Games which were played in Brazil recently. This marvellous contribution to her team saw her finish in fourth place among the top scorers for the tournament. Caroline Walsh, Aghanagran, was also on the team, which won two of their opening pool games against Holland and Brazil, the first Irish team to pull off such a good result. The only game they lost by a wide margin was to Hungary and they could be forgiven for this as it was Listowel’s second game on a day that the temperature averaged around 32 celcius. They went on to beat Belgium and lost their final game to Greece by five points. This was a great performance by the team and their coach Ger Tarrant as many of these European team are from Sports Academies where players are groomed for National teams from an early age. One of the Listowel team was sitting her Leaving Certificate on her return from Brazil so she had plenty to write about in her essays while the neighbours in Killelton are rising early these days to the sound of the samba drums. GAA: Lotto - Last week-ends draw was held at O’Connors Bar and there was no winner of the ?2,950 jackpot. The numbers drawn were 1, 3, 16, 21 and the four ?25 lucky dips were Kieran Hanrahan and Pat Holly, c/o Ml O’Carroll; Eileen Foley, Lenamore; Ruarai Dennehy, Bridge St and Tom Moriarty, Ballyduff. The bar prize sponsored by Jerry O’Connor was won by Billy Enright, Ballymackessy. Next weekends draw will be at O’Carrolls Bar and the jackpot will be ?3,025. CONCERT: Don’t forget the concert at the Golf Hotel, Ballybunion on Friday night, June 20, featuring Brian Ormonde and Michael Leonard, runners up in the recent “You’re a Star” Show on RTE. Proceeds are in aid of the new playschool in Asdee and tickets costing ?15 are available locally at Heaphy’s Spar, Bridge St. O’BRENNAN GRAVEYARD: The Annual Mass will be celebrated in O’Brennan Graveyard on Tuesday, July 1, at 8pm. All are welcome to attend. If you have family graves in the graveyard, this is an opportunity to tend to them in preparation for the Mass. MEETING: The Friends of Tralee General Hospital are holding a meeting at the Ballymac GAA Grounds, Monday, June 23, at 9pm. Everybody is welcome. KNOCK: The Ballymacelligott St Josephs Young Priest Society are running 2 buses to Knock on Saturday, June 28. One bus from Ballymacelligott and the second from Killorglin. All details from June (066) 7137236 or Eileen 7137237. DEATH: The death occurred on June 14, at his residence of Mr Denis Lyons, Shanavalla, Gortatlea. Denis whose wife pre-deceased him, is survived by his only child Denis Jnr, his family, brothers, sisters, nephews and nieces, cousins and many friends. His remains laid in State at Tangneys Funeral Home, Castleisland and on Sunday his remains were removed to St Brendans Church, Clogher at 7pm. On Monday, Requiem Mass was celebrated by Rev Fr Pat O’Donnell who also gave the family. The organ and hymns were organised by Tangneys Funeral Home. After Mass his funeral was to Killeentierna Cemetery, Currow for burial. The funeral on both days were large and representative. Ballymacelligott Lotto: There was no jackpot winner in the draw held at The Half Way Bar on Saturday June 14th. The four numbers drawn were 3, 16, 19, 25. Lucky dip winners were: (1) Michelle Dunne,Maglass, (2)Lisa Falvey,Cahir. (3) David Long, Kielduff. (4) Thomas Dunne,Maglass (5) Joe 0’Connor,Tubbermaing. Sellers Prize: Maureen O’Shea Next Lotto draw,to be held in Glenduff House, on Saturday June 21st will have a Jackpot of ?4,000. Tickets available from the usual sources. We would like to remind patrons of our Annual Blue Lottery Ticket. This costs ?60 and entitles the holder to be included in 52 weekly lotto draws, which amounts to 12 free draws per ticket. Once again we wish to thank all ticket sellars and we look forward to your continued support. U-12: Our under 12’s begin their second series of games in the County league on Sunday 22nd June when they play Legion in Ballymac@ 7pm. The other teams involved in this grouping are Spa, Dr Crokes, and Gaeltacht. U-14: Under 14 Football school of Excellence will take place in Ballymac on four successive Saturdays - July5th, 12th, 19th, 26th from 10am to 1pm. Fifteen players from Castleisland District will be chosen for this course. Players will be chosen by the mentors of each District U-14 Championship team. Our u-14’s are at home to Austin Stacks in round 3 of Tralee District league on Friday June 20th @ 7pm. We have now qualified for the semi-finals of Castleisland District U-14 League. U-16’s Our u-16’s are awaiting a semi-final in Castleisland District League and a final in Tralee District. Our first County League game in this age group is at home to Rathmore on Monday June 23 at 7pm. Training: Training or u-8’s, u-10’s, and u-12’s, continues each Sunday at 11am with large numbers attending. Any young people from the parish who have not yet come to training are most welcome any Sunday morning. Summer Camps: Ballymac GAA club intend to organise summer camps to enhance the football skills of our underage players. These summer camps will only take place if there is sufficient interest in them. It is anticiapated that these summer camps will take place in early July. All parents who wish their to take part should contact Maureen O’Shea at (087) 9795220. County Junior league: Our B team continued their unbeaten run when disposing of Ardfert with a winning margin of 10 points at Ballymac on Friday night last. A feature of this game was a spectacular goal scored by veteran Ballymac stalwart Bernard Cassidy from 25 metres. St Kierans: Best wishes to St.Kierans Senior team on Sunday next when they take on East Kerry in the County Championship at Gneeveguilla. St Kierans GAA club are at present fundraising to cover expenses of teams particpating in County Championship Football. The fundraising is in the form of a Donkey Derby and tickets are being sold by all clubs in St Kierans District. We hope this fundraising initiative will be well supported. GAA ticket scheme: Anyone in the parish who wishes to subscribe to the new five year ticket scheme run by Kerry County Board may Contact Maureen 0’Shea at (087) 9795220 for details. Best wishes for a speedy recovery to Kerry County Board Cultural Officer Liam Cotter who is indisposed at present. Sympathy: We wish to express our sympathy to Denis Lyons, Shanavalla on the death of his father Denis. Brosna Our senior team had a good 1-16 to 0-7 win over Knocknagoshel in the final round of the North Kerry League Division 2. Top scorer for Brosna was Tom McGoldrick with a score of 1-6. In the middle of the field Johnathon O’Donnell was outstanding and veteran goalkeeper Brendan Lane saved a penalty after a Knocknagoshel player was fouled by Peter Peters. We are now in the playoff stages of this competition which will be played at a later date. B TEAM: Fresh from their victory over Gale Rangers our B Team play Emmets C in the North Kerry League semi-final on this Thursday evening. Manager Patrick Brosnan is confident his players will rise to the challenge and book their place in the final against Ballydonoghue. Please check with club officials for time and venue. CENTENARY CUP: We play Division 1 club Dingle in the next round of this competition on either Saturday or Sunday week. The game will be played in Brosna and will be our biggest game so far this year. Best of luck to the Brosna players who will be playing with St Kierans this weekend in the County Championship game versus East Kerry. Tim Geaney is also a selector with St Kierans. BROSNA U–12s travelled to Renard last weekend to play Renard in the Co League. Brosna started well with some good passages of play ending with some well taken points. At this point our goalie brought off a great save. Our full–back line were playing well but a few changes in positions for Renard resulted in two goals being scored before half–time. We changed our centre–forward to centrefield which brought our full–forward line into the game. At this point Brosna owned the ball, scoring three goals in as few minutes but fair play to Renard they kept plugging away and with the sides even and time up they were awarded a free on the 21 yards line which they put over the bar. Final score was: 3–4 to 2–8. RAMBLING HOUSE: Despite the time of the year another massive crowd turned up for a mighty evening of music, song and dance. UNDER 14: Brosna/Scartaglin took on Cordal on Thursday night and defeated them on a scoreline of 5–12 to 1–4. Brosna will take on Knocknagoshel on Wednesday evening at 7.30pm in Scartaglin. SENIORS: Our senior team had a good win over Knocknagoshel during the weekend. BROSNA GAA LOTTO: Numbers drawn were: 1, 2, 12, 20. Jackpot not won. Winners: ?35, Paudie Sullivan, Mountcollins, promoter, Joan Browne, Brosna. Lucky Dips: ?15, John O’Donoghue, Castleisland; Tom Moloney, Brosna; Liam Lane, Brosna; Michael Brosnan, Brosna. Next week’s Jackpot is ?2,050, to be drawn at The Sportsfield Bar, Brosna, on Monday, June 23. Camp Aughascla National School Annual Sports will be held on Friday June 20 at 6.30 pm sharp, in Camp Community Field. Admission is ?2 per child, ?5 per family, Adults free. Please note : Children without partent/guardian will not be allowed participate. Car Boot Sale: Camp Car Boot Sale will be held in Camp Community Field this Sunday, June 22. Gates open at 10 am. The best indoor/outdoor market in the country. Special Olympics :From far away South America, the El Salvador participants in the Special Olympic World Summer games arrived in Tralee on Saturday last. A special parade through the town of Tralee marked a welcome to them form the people of the area. In Dingle town this Thursday, the athletes from South Africa will also receive a special welcome. All over Kerry in no less than 8 centres host towns and villages have worked hard fundraising and preparing for the athletes who will go on to partake in the different events in Dublin next week. Camp too played their part and headed by Anne Kennedy and Frances O Connor, events were organised and over ?3,000 raised to support two athletes taking part in the games. An Irish girl, Lily Patterson, competing in Uni Hoc/ Poly Hoc and Ana E Lopez, from El Salvador, taking part in the Aquatics section are the two athletes which Camp is supporting in this very historical and special event for Ireland. So you are all encouraged to watch out for the girls, it certainly will help us to feel part of this great occasion for these young people, who have such excellent talents and give so much regardless of the disabilities many of them encounter throughout their lives. Well done to all involved in any way in these events. Concert: Camp young musicians will perform at a concert to be held in the Old School on this Wednesday night June 18 commencing at 8pm. Special Guests : Champion dancers Evangeline O Dowd and John Fitzgerald, Cloghane. Admission : ?4. Castleisland JOHNNY Murphy Memorial continues until next Sunday, June 22. Results of juvenile open, held last Saturday, June 14. Boys U16, 1st Michael Foley, Deerpark 46, 2nd David Long, Deerpark 49, 3rd Mike Murphy, Deerpark 52. Boys U14 1st Darragh Casey, Deerpark, 2nd Michael Walsh, Castleisland 69, 3rd Daniel McCarthy, Castleisland 70. Boys u12, 1st Daniel O’Connor, Castleisland 82, 2nd Adam O’Connor 93, 3rd Jack Kennedy 107. Girls 1st Melissa O’Brien, Deerpark 66, 2nd Melanie Cremins, Castleisland 85, 3rd Rebecca Nolan 128. Congratulations to Mike Browne, in qualifying for the senior Munster matchplay finals and to Denis McCarthy who qualified for intermediate matchplay finale and to Julianne Broderick, who qualified for the senior ladies matchplay finals. SNOOKER CLUB: Quarter final results of Noel Brownes club c’ship 2003, Tom Browne beat George McKenna 2-0, Denis Tobin beat Peter Lordan 2-0, Jerry O’Rourke, beat Mike Griffin 2-0. CO JUNIOR LEAGUE: Dingle 1-14, Desmonds 0-15. Desmonds lost to Dingle in their home game on Saturday. A goal by Dingle against the run of play in the 2nd half, proved decisive as Desmonds welcomed back some of their young players. Scorers on the night were Mick O’Donoghue 0-1, Derry Prendiville, Donal Kelliher 0-2, D D Kerins 0-1, Barry O’Neill 0-2, Daniel Walshe 0-1, John McGaley 0-2, Joe Lyons 0-2, Brian McMahon 0-1, Pat Hickey 0-1, Tommy Horan 0-1, the junior teams next game is away to Glenflesk on June 27, at 8pm. CHAMPIONSHIP FIXTURE: On next Saturday, Desmonds seniors are away to Emmets in their 3rd game of the championship. This game is fixed for 6.30 in Tralee. However it is still hoped that this game will be changed to Sunday. Well done to Humphrey Shanahan, who kept a clean sheet between the posts in the Kerry juniors impressive win over Tipperary on last weekend. Also well done to Eamon John O’Donoghue from Cordal, Jack Dennehy, Seamus Flynn from Currow and Desmonds selector Tom Brennan, also well done to Currows Seamus Scanlon who played a big part in Kerrys win over Tipperary in the senior game. SUMMER CAMP: The Co Board GAA Summer camp will be held in Desmonds GAA Grounds, beginning on July 7 to July 11. HOLIDAYS: Good luck to our club men and their families who are enjoying their sun holidays at this time among them are Vice Chairman, Steve Murphy, PRO Mike Brosnan and our Minister for Finance, Seamus O’Neill. LOTTO: Desmonds next lotto draw will be held in Skevenas on Saturday, June 27. BACK FROM AUSTRALIA: The club welcomes back William Walshe who has been in Australia for the past year, also back from injury is Brian McMahon, Pat Fitzgerald and Joe Lyons. WEDDING: Best wishes to Maurice Casey, well known basketballer, and footballer, who got married last weekend to Michelle Reidy. U12 BLITZ IN BEAUFORT: Desmonds u12 ladies were narrowly defeated in the semi final of Beauforts u12 blitz on Sunday. They defeated Ballyduff and Legion in earlier rounds. Desmonds are very strong in this area this year, and the team did the club very proud on the day. The u12 team are playing in Div 1 of the Co league as a result of this and we wish them well. Cloghane/ Brandon Cloghane National School will be having their Green School Open Day on Tuesday June 24 at 12noon. Séamus Moynihan will be attending the ceremony, to raise the flag. Everybody is welcome, to celebrate this special day for the community. Mícheál Ó Coileáin will be giving a talk on recycling after the ceremony at the school and not at Halla le Chéile as previously printed. A reminder for any body interested in part-taking in the Country market that will be held in Halla le Chéile on this Sunday, June 22, to contact Trish 066-7138137 to make arrangements. Could parents who have not yet received the survey assessing the need for childcare facilities in the Cloghane / Brandon area please contact the office of the Comharchumann. Surveys were distributed through the Naionra, the parent and Toddler group, and Cloghane National School. It is vital that all parents support this survey to establish the exact needs of the community. 
