sport gaa
{  
    November 02 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/changing-and-challenging-26578184.html }
You can watch a game of soccer in Croke Park; if your county loses a championship match there's always a second chance; if you don't fancy going along to that game, you can always watch it live on the telly down at your local state-of-the-art GAA clubhouse with its 50-inch plasma TV screen. The players you watch wear logos across their chest in a competition for which sponsorship brings in millions. Those same players are represented by a union. They are managed by a man who has the powers of a chief executive on the sideline and has most likely brought in a sports scientist who determined that they had protein shakes and fruit for breakfast that morning. The GAA yesterday added another quarter-century block to the four already stacked upon each other since November 1884. In keeping with the world in general, the pace of change has been by far the greatest in the last 25 years. The association isn't quite unrecognisable from the one it was back in 1984, but the makeovers have been extensive. Here we look at the main areas the pace of change has affected.  Proliferation of club grounds and facilities Since the GAA's centenary year in 1984, there has been a drive and ambition in almost every GAA club in the country to improve its facilities. Most clubs now own their own grounds, complete with clubhouse and, in many cases, community and social centres. In more recent years, some of the facilities developed have been spectacular. Nemo Rangers, who profited from a move further into the suburbs, and Donaghmore-Ashbourne, 10 miles north of Dublin, are two that spring to mind.  Sponsorship In 1991, the GAA finally broke down the barriers attached to sponsorship when rules permitting endorsement logos on jerseys were passed. Within a year, almost every club and county had the name of a local firm, bank or pub emblazoned across the chests of its players. Four years later, sponsorship of competitions were signed into rule for the first time with Guinness on board for the All-Ireland hurling championships and Bank of Ireland the first football championship sponsors. Since the middle of the 1990s, the GAA has embraced the corporate pot much more vehemently and almost two years ago introduced partnership sponsorships for both major championships which were worth in the region of €16m over three years. Competition
structures For large parts of the first 100 years the competition structures of the GAA remained the same. Initially, club teams represented their counties, but that gave way to representation of a county by its best. The four provincial competitions, followed by All-Ireland semi-finals and finals, stood the test of time until 2001 in football when the back-door system was introduced. Four years earlier, hurling gave a second chance to the beaten finalists in Leinster and Munster, but has since gone through several makeovers. This is one of the GAA's most significant changes in 25 years and one that is bound to evolve in the next quarter of a century.  GPA The GPA celebrated its 10th year in existence earlier this year and in that decade sufficient pressure has been exerted to place player welfare high on the GAA's agenda. Regardless of the views held on the player welfare body, they have made a significant impact as a lobby group for their membership. The road hasn't always been easy and in the last decade the proliferation of player strikes and protests, particularly in relation to the choice of managers, has been a worry for the GAA. Right now, the GPA and the GAA continue to discuss formalisation of a relationship between the two bodies based on funding. Another seismic change in 25 years. Coaching and
sports science Less than 15 years ago, Mike McNamara was hailed as a revolutionary, his 'sergeant major' style the perfect catalyst for Clare's dramatic dominance of hurling in the middle part of that decade. The drills were portrayed as tortuous, but the communal sacrifice involved was perceived as the way forward. Others instantly felt the need to copy. This week the Clare players want Mike Mac out because they feel, among other things, his methods and manner are dated. Nowhere is the pace of change in the GAA more evident than in the way teams are prepared and coached. Later this month, some 800 coaches from all around the country will gather in Croke Park for the annual coaching conference, hoping to pick up bits of wisdom and use to good effect in their own environment. What did in this field four and five years ago doesn't do now, it seems.  Media/live tv Another massive growth area in the GAA. More newspapers has meant more coverage and the advent of live TV has taken the GAA to audiences it never touched before. The latest TV deal was thought to have been worth €10m over three years. Early fears that live televised matches would keep crowds at home didn't materialise.  Croke Park GAA headquarters was a greying old stadium in 1984, housing 65,000 people, many of whom had to stand with not a prawn sandwich in sight. Now it is testament to the GAA's resurgence over the last quarter of a century, albeit with €110m of exchequer funding towards an overall €180m redeveleopment cost. International sport, concerts and of course the majority of major GAA games can bring up to two million people through the turnstiles in any given year.  Ideological rule changes Who would have thought it back in 1984 that, 25 years on, soccer and rugby would be played in Croke Park and members of the security forces in Northern Ireland could sign up to their local GAA club. The removal of Rule 21 and Rule 42 have taken away the hard-edged sticks to beat the GAA with. The transition on both fronts has been quite seamless. Rule 21 was first to go in 2000, Rule 42, albeit in a temporary capacity and relating only to Croke Park for the period of time that Lansdowne Road was being redeveloped, took a little more time.  Ulster Up to 1984, only two Ulster counties had won an All-Ireland senior football title and only Down from 'the six' had brought the Sam Maguire Cup across the border. The 'boot and bonnet' request was regular for GAA members. But over the next 25 years Ulster has become arguably the dominant football province, not in terms of volume of wins, but the geographical spread. In the last 25 years, Donegal, Derry, Armagh and Tyrone have all won first All-Ireland titles and Down have added two to the three they won in the 1960s. Eight of the last 19 All-Ireland titles have gone north. Any 'order of merit' would feature more Ulster teams in a top 16 than any other province right now. Ulster leads the way on many fronts, from coaching to the floodlighting of at least one ground in each county.  Manager power Twenty five years ago, a team manager was nowhere near the influential figure he is today. At inter-county level, they were merely figureheads to lengthy selection committees chosen in the political world of county committee rooms. They trained and coached, but were still at the behest of the board and their selectors, some of whom they may not have seen eye to eye with. Now inter-county team managers choose selectors, can dictate to boards on matters such as fixtures and finance and of course, in many cases, receive a healthy remuneration for their efforts. The buck stops with them of course which is why they are more dispensable than ever. Irish Independent 
