sport gaa
{  
    May 10 2009 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/there-are-only-five-counties-with-players-on-hurlings-all-stars-but-nine-on-the-ireland-rugby-team-26534848.html }
LAST month, former Limerick hurling manager Tom Ryan took to the Limerick airwaves to lambast locals for leaping on the Irish rugby bandwagon. In a heated debate with Len Dineen, a well-known rugby commentator, Ryan accused people of losing the run of themselves and hit out at what he called the "glorifying" of tournaments such as the Six Nations and the Heineken Cup. In typically frank fashion, he expressed his dismay that people were describing Munster rugby as a fairytale story. A few weeks previously, Ryan had labelled the Red Army as "an artificially created super club". "Take my word for it," he warned as the stormy discussion on Limerick's 95fm drew to a close. "This bandwagon will pass." Ryan's outburst notwithstanding, however, there is a genuine fear in the GAA that the professionalism and the hype surrounding rugby at the moment is seriously damaging Gaelic football and hurling. Ryan isn't the first GAA man to raise eyebrows at the unprecedented success and media exposure rugby is currently experiencing in Ireland. And neither is he the first to wonder if that hype will affect the 2009 hurling and football championships, which begin with a whimper this weekend. Tipperary's Lar Corbett lives in the hurling heartland of Thurles but he can also see the game receding somewhat at the expense of rugby. "Rugby has taken over in the last few years," he says, "and it's after getting very strong in Tipperary. But the story is the same all over Ireland. There are only five counties represented on hurling's All-Stars but you had nine counties represented with Ireland in the rugby so there's a huge spread across the country there. "It is getting stronger, a lot of young fellas are growing up now wanting to play rugby, and here in Tipperary, when they see Denis Leamy, the Fogartys, Trevor Hogan, Donncha Ryan, they are role models. And then you have Alan Quinlan going with the Lions, they want to follow that." Before last Sunday's hurling league final, Corbett's manager Liam Sheedy called on the GAA to quickly develop new marketing and promotional strategies to arouse interest in league games. "The issue for the GAA is how we're going to get 50 or 60,000 into league finals," he said. "We need to really beef up our game. Munster and Leinster in rugby is great and sport in general is on the up. We need to make sure that the GAA does not start dropping its standards. The challenge is how can we get our top teams into the stadium and get the stands packed. And if that means we play our football and hurling together for league finals, we should. Last weekend's Heineken Cup semi-final sell-out in Croke Park demonstrated just how urgently the GAA requires a summer explosion. The atmosphere in the stadium was electrifying, in complete contrast to the football league finals held there six days earlier. Indeed the Munster-Leinster fixture was an occasion that threatened to surpass the excitement and colour of the All-Ireland hurling and football finals. The eagerly-awaited clash showed that sport, provided it catches the public imagination, can still bust the recession. But the GAA will have to wait another three weeks before they can hope to have any significant kick-start to their summer. Instead of a bumper championship opening today, which we had for the football league, we have a game 3,000 miles away between New York and Mayo. The menu won't be much more enticing next week when Louth and Carlow are put in front of us. Up north, it's only slightly more appealing with the meeting of Fermanagh and Down in Enniskillen. The point is that the championships will nearly be a month old before anyone even notices. You can blame the format and everyone acknowledges that the GAA summer is a slow burner. All the same, there has been a lack of radio and TV advertising for the 2009 championships. It all smacks of complacency at a time when rugby has captured the imagination. But even though the oval ball has provided us with most of our biggest and brightest sporting moments over the past 12 months, the GAA maintain there's a bigger picture to be seen. At the end of this month, the compelling Heineken Cup tournament will draw to a close and the Lions tour will not have the same hold over Irish supporters as the campaigns of the national and provincial sides did. That will be the GAA's window and it must be exploited to the full. By the June Bank Holiday weekend, when thankfully there are some games of interest, most of us should be back dissecting the latest hurling and football controversies and dramas again. Looking further down the line, statistics show that GAA participation rates are far healthier than rugby in schools. The last ESRI report on this showed that 47 per cent of second level students played GAA to rugby's eight per cent. At primary level, it's 61 per cent versus 15 per cent. Those figures suggest there's no major concern, but a survey in Longford suggests otherwise. The detailed study found that there was a lack of interest among teachers in either beoming involved in running school teams or covering for other teachers who did. And with just 275 boys having enrolled in primary schools in the county last September, it is going to be very difficult for Longford to produce competitive underage teams in the future. The message is clear: the GAA is embroilled in a battle for hearts and minds of a shrinking market. And while the schools are the first battleground, there is plenty of evidence to suggest that clubs are having to work hard with their underage players to compete against the growing attraction of playing rugby. There used to be a stereotype of a typical rugby player. If Munster have achieved one thing it is in blowing that perception to bits. The man on the street can now identify with rugby. That used to be the GAA's domain. This should force the Association to ponder if there are better ways to structure their own fixtures and championships or even market them more efficiently to give themselves a new edge. This challenge becomes all the more formidable when you consider the current economic downturn. There's no doubt that crowd figures will be down in the early stages of the GAA summer and in the qualifiers too. That won't sit well when you consider the good times and healthy crowds that rugby is experiencing amidst the gloom of the recession. Thomond Park is almost filled to capacity for Magners League games these days -- not long ago you would be lucky to get 3,000 in for such fixtures. And in Leinster, over the last two years, there has been a significant increase in attendances, with full houses at the RDS now the norm rather than the exception. For the time being, however, the GAA will focus only on its own patch. They boast 2,610 affiliated clubs and some 14,504 youth teams. Every year over 1.5m people attend inter-county hurling and football games. Within the next four years, their strategic plan aims to have 1,438 teams for youngsters aged between eight and 16 in Dublin alone. There has already been a massive explosion in participation in South Dublin. In the past, hurling and football have thrived long after Ireland qualified for soccer World Cups and European Championships. There is no doubt that Gaelic games will live long and prosper despite the massive glow currently surrounding Irish rugby. Just look at Kilmacud Crokes' All-Ireland title win this year and observe how many of their team spent their formative years at rugby-playing schools before switching to Gaelic football. That's the attitude needed to prevail. In the short-term, though, here's a few suggestions the GAA would do well to take on board: Let's have an innovative promotion and marketing campaign to let people know that hurling and football are back in town. Do something quickly about the championship structure and give us some attractive opening fixtures. Instead of putting everything into a gala opening of the national league, why not finish with a bang? The GAA can't afford to take their eye off the ball. The IRFU are trawling urban areas for upcoming talent. For years the GAA enjoyed near-domination on the recruitment of young sportspeople. That's certainly not the case anymore. 
