sport gaa
{  
    January 04 2009 04:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/fighting-a-losing-battle-26503294.html }
W E approach a new GAA season with a fresh resolution to flush cynicism from the games. The question is not so much whether it is needed -- that much is clear -- but whether or not it will be grievously wounded by self-interest groups and propaganda during the experimental phase, then applied the mortal blow at Congress. The proposals coming from Liam O'Neill's disciplinary committee lack neither merit nor urgency, but optimism is tempered by the GAA's lamentable record in the areas of implementation and enforcement. Last year, once again, the disciplinary process was too often quick to equivocate in what was a poor season for the forces of law and order. Contemptuous disregard for discipline ranged from highly infamous examples on the field to the svelte and conniving movement of goalposts in the boardrooms. Technicalities did a roaring trade at appeals. The GAA at all levels talked out of the two sides of its mouth. The GAA is losing the war on indiscipline -- we must admit that for a starter. Cynicism is rife in every strand of the system and the most admirable footballer or hurler may possess an appalling cheating streak that sees him feign injury or deliberately cause one. The deterrents aren't there in sufficient numbers. Perhaps the GAA, 125 years on from its foundation as a separatist sporting and cultural body, is incorrigibly schismatic by nature, and inherently uncomfortable with authority. Maybe we are an innately dishonest race of people, as has been luridly reflected through the various institutions of the State being, one by one, exposed as depressingly adroit at fraud and deception -- the Church, politicians, the Gardai, banks, so why not the GAA as well? Why, you have to ask, has the GAA lied to itself about discipline for so long? The GAA, the record shows, is naturally cautious, bureaucratic, slow to change. It can be looked on as a mass of different conflicts and contradictions as a united force and vision. Think of the agonising hand-wringing that went with modernising parts of the GAA's constitution, though the issues were usually driven by ideology rather than practical concerns. Discipline, it often seems lost on the GAA, is no less revealing of the Association's ideological and moral fibre than an ancient rule on whether or not soccer and rugby should be staged at the national stadium. It tells us a lot about the kind of people we are and the kind of sporting organisation we want. This was noted with exasperating frequency in the annual reports of Liam Mulvihill while general secretary over a period that saw the most brisk advances in modernisation and cultural change. His anguish expressed in the reports filed immediately after arriving in office in 1979 was undiminished in those published near his retirement. There have been some gains made in the battle to clean up the games, admittedly, like greater use of video evidence, the clampdown on the third man in, and a stiffening of suspension penalties. Yet the reports echoing from Mulvihill were a tacit admission that the GAA had failed to beat what he once labelled as the Association's "cancer". In the year just passed, one senior GAA official was seen berating match officials after a match in which his own county was involved. And his team had won. How do you start to deal with that level of parochialism? Each GAA president who served during Mulvihill's time would also have been aware of the difficulties posed by the issue of discipline. It had the scope to damage their reputation in office and probably was better left alone if they wanted to avoid acrimony -- a policy of running repairs was, therefore, preferred to risking anything more substantial and fundamental and lasting. But the fight goes on. A year and a half ago, Nickey Brennan, who has prior experience of working on disciplinary task forces, asked Liam O'Neill to chair a group to find proposals that might alleviate the problems being encountered on the field of play. He was not asked to look beyond that to the hearings and appeals structure. For O'Neill, a GAA presidential candidate himself, this would have the potential to blow into oblivion his prospects of succeeding Christy Cooney. A few weeks ago, after widespread consultation with managers and county officers, O'Neill held a media conference to outline what experiments lay ahead in the coming months, including the national leagues, experiments which begin this weekend in the various provincial competitions. If the trial bombs, it should have no adverse bearing on him and those who have worked alongside him on the committee. The point about the rules that already exist being sufficient is well made, but the issue there is in the interpretation. O'Neill's group has sought to identify some of the most common cynical fouls in the GAA today, isolate them, categorise them and lay down clear penalties for each one. The idea is to remove the ambiguity as much as possible and close the open canyon of 'common sense' that sometimes intrudes on decision-making by referees. Most attention, of course, is being focused on the decision to send off yellow card offenders, with a replacement allowed. The aim is to hammer home the point to the culprit that his cynicism will not pay, while not affecting the rest of the team. The punishment is centred on the individual. Some are concerned that this will favour stronger panels, but stronger panels have always enjoyed this advantage, especially since the subs allocation increased and replacements became a key part of match strategy. A chance to have the proposals voted on at special congress this year was missed, so Congress in April is now the target date. In the meantime, we will get to see how they fare on the ground. The decision to allow a dismissed player to be replaced (red card offenders still cannot be replaced under the experimental rules) is an idea that has been floated in the past by Pat Daly, one of the foremost thinkers within the GAA administration. It has emerged from the ashes of the sin bin experiment four years ago, an experimental holocaust that gave another insight into the GAA's lack of backbone on disciplinary issues. O'Neill admits that the GAA "bottled it" when reneging on a commitment to run the sin bin experiment through all inter-county competition until the end of the league. The Ulster Council rejected using the experiment in the McKenna Cup and by the time the leagues came around, the plan had been ditched following an outcry from prominent county managers. The idea, like now, was to eradicate repetitive fouling and cynical play. "We caved in the last time because the managers said no," says O'Neill. He doesn't expect that there will be the same level of hysteria in the next few months. The sin bin needed time to breathe but after three weekends of O'Byrne Cup matches and other early season competition, the experiment was called off. Even Mick O'Dwyer, a member of the football task force that helped bring forward the proposal, was expressing reservations after the first day out. His opposite number that day, Offaly's Kevin Kilmurray, cut loose a few days later: "The sin bin is a total farce and is never going to work. We should forget about the sin bin. Intelligent people in the GAA are responsible for this and they are going to have to admit they got it wrong. It's unfair to the players as they are the ones who are suffering." A week later, Seán Boylan weighed in. "I'd love to go out and play a game of Gaelic football, that's my first reaction. Kevin Reilly and Peadar Byrne were sent off in the second half. Kevin never touched yer man. It will show it, you will see it later on telly. Peadar Byrne put his two hands out like 'that' and was sent off. In the old rules, it would've been a free (to Meath) for charging. You end up with 12 on your team so what dominates the game? Is it the scores? No, it's the sin bin." Seven players had been sent off in the match Boylan was referring to, and it wasn't an unusual statistic, but listening, no doubt, in pain was Pat Daly. "There is a steep learning curve here for everyone involved," said Daly at the time, "and anyone who thought we could crack down on deliberate, cynical fouling without some problems would be deluding themselves." Not every manager was so emphatically opposed, it is worth noting. Padraig Nolan, in charge of Kildare when eight players were sent off against Laois in the O'Byrne Cup, said: "I don't think Croke Park or anyone wants to see eight players sin-binned in every game. That certainly wasn't a dirty game. But I still feel there is a place for it somewhere along the line, because there's nothing manly about late tackles and that." There was support too from Val Andrews: "It would have been interesting to see what happens over the league. I don't think three weekends was enough, and there's never any gain without some pain. I suppose I'm not too surprised, but maybe we should have got the opinion of more of the players. "Still, it's not a lost cause if we're at least acknowledging we have a problem with the frequency of frees. So we have to come up with some sort of alternative. But this has created a debate, and an awareness, even if the experiment was too short." The league statistics for 2005 when compared with 2004 showed that, in football, yellow cards fell by 52 per cent, from 628 in 2004 to 302 in '05, with red cards slipping from 45 to nine over the seven rounds of games. In hurling, yellow cards were reduced by 37 per cent, from 279 to 175, while red cards went from 19 to nine. This suggested that, even after the sin bin's demise, the decision to send players off on a yellow card offence was having some impact. "There has been far too much ambivalence to violence in sport in this country for quite some time," said Liam O'Neill recently. And he's right. Nickey Brennan pointed out that of 19 red card offences drawn from the last two seasons, only two led to straight dismissals. It is high time the GAA stopped providing cover for these offenders. "I believe these rules will be a big help and take the cynicism out of the game," said Brennan. "I won't listen to anybody talking about the notion of taking the physicality out of the game. That is not what the rules will do and it is not their intention at all. Our games are, and will remain, good physical, manly contests." But, in discipline of all sectors, actions speak louder than words. We shall see. 
