sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    October 27 2018 09:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/i-was-perturbed-by-the-disregard-shown-to-the-association-director-general-on-fallout-to-pairc-ui-chaoimh-saga-37463839.html }
It didn't take long for Tom Ryan to realise just how different life would be as GAA Director-General, compared with the  Director of Finance position he had held for the previous 11 years. Within 12 weeks of replacing Páraic Duffy, he was facing his first big problem when Kildare were threatening to derail the football championship in a row over the venue for their qualifier clash with Mayo. Less than four weeks later, the GAA became embroiled in another major controversy after permission was refused for Páirc Uí Chaoimh to be made available for the Liam Miller tribute soccer game. Albert Reynolds's famous comment how, in politics, "it's the little things that trip you up" now applied to the GAA as public opinion swung overwhelmingly against them on both issues. The political classes were unloading fire in their direction too, effectively instructing them to rescind the Páirc Uí Chaoimh decision, amid claims that failure to do so broke the terms under which State funding for the redevelopment was granted. There was more too. Opportunist politicians, riding high on populism, were demanding that future funding carries a condition under which grant-aided stadia would be made available to all sports. The ramping up of hostilities alarmed the GAA. Criticising them on the Páirc Uí Chaoimh issue was one thing, but threats over future funding took the argument into unprecedented territory. "I think that may have been a bit unreasonable. Whatever funding is directed towards the GAA should be assessed on the merits of what we provide in facilities and games for so many people," says Ryan. He also points to practical issues, which are unique to the GAA. "Constraints apply in terms of the size of pitches we need to play our games. They are bigger than soccer or rugby pitches. So, if funding were to be based on grounds being made available for all sports, I can't see how it's logical or fair, given the pitch dimension issue. No other sport can accommodate us. "The GAA has a compelling case for funding, based on what we do. We're happy to make that case and stand on our record. As far as we're concerned, the Páirc Uí Chaoimh issue has changed nothing with regard to funding. "If Gaelic Games are considered worthy of support - and they are - I don't see it [future funding] changing, based on the record of the State up to now," says Ryan. But what if this, or some future government, insisted that grants would only be given for GAA grounds if they were automatically opened up for other sports too? "We would fight tooth and nail to make sure that wasn't the case," says Ryan. Inevitably, the question arises as to why the GAA found itself in such a mess over a relatively minor issue. And how did it almost have the football championship schedule disrupted by a dispute over a venue? "It's important to make a distinction between the two. The Newbridge one was our own internal affair, whereas Páirc Uí Chaoimh wasn't. That made Newbridge easier to fix," says Ryan. There's still confusion over how the Páirc Uí Chaoimh affair spiralled into such a major national issue so quickly. At face value, it was a case of the GAA adhering to its rules, which preclude the use of county grounds for other sports. Instead, it escalated into a huge controversy, with the GAA portrayed as a mean-spirited organisation which wouldn't facilitate a charity soccer match. "I was perturbed by the disregard shown to the Association for the way it runs its affairs and the fact that due process has to be followed," explains Ryan. "If you look at this dispassionately, this was never just about playing a soccer match at a GAA venue. That has happened before [in Croke Park while Lansdowne Road was under redevelopment]. "The same goes for rugby. If the World Cup had come here, we were ready to step up to the mark, as we had done all the way from the start of the [bidding] process. That's the way to do these things - there's a process there. "That didn't happen with this one [Páirc Uí Chaoimh] for some reason. But when the problem arose, we moved things on as quickly as we could. "It blew up one week and by the end of the following week, we had mobilised Central Council and moved things on. I think we were as flexible and agile as we could be, given all the circumstances," says Ryan. He accepts that the GAA may have misjudged the public reaction, which was inflamed by the introduction of legal argument to support the initial stance. "We weren't saying that legally we couldn't host the game. There were claims that we were breaking the conditions of our funding for Páirc Uí Chaoimh so when we made reference to the legal issue it was in that context. We were sure we were not in contravention of the conditions. "It might have looked like we were using legal arguments to stop the game - we weren't. Maybe we could have explained that better." As the furore rumbled on, the GAA's reputation took a severe battering. Ryan says that was frustrating as it ran contrary to what the GAA is all about as the country's largest community organisation. "The reason for the rule [use of grounds] isn't an ideological position against anybody. It's just that they are our pitches and their primary purpose is the playing of Gaelic games but we got to a stage where such was the furore that by not opening it up we were actually doing something that was contrary to the well-being of the Association." The Kildare v Mayo qualifier tie went ahead too, but not without a few days of high drama when the 'Newbridge or Nowhere' campaign dominated the agenda. A spat over a venue might look rather trivial, but when a county reacts to being denied home advantage by threatening not to fulfil the fixture, it becomes a serious matter. Kildare eventually got their way, raising questions about the efficiency of the fixture-making process. "At least that issue was our own internal matter. And it was actually fixed in quite a short time. It became a real issue for Kildare and we tackled it head on. "We worked with [Kildare chairman] Ger Donnelly and other officers and once things calmed down, a solution was found. The problem with a situation like this is that you can't be issuing hour-by-hour statements on what you're doing. A certain amount of business has to be done behind closed doors. "It was never out of control despite what social media or anyone else said. You can't react to all that. It was about fixing a problem. That's what Kildare wanted, what we wanted and it's what we both got," he says. Six months into his current position, Ryan says that while it's different to his previous role in finance, it's not much different to what he envisaged. "With the championship coming up shortly after I started, I didn't have the luxury of being able to sit back and think of the longer-term situation. A lot of stuff that happens over the summer is week-to-week. "It's only now I'm getting chance to look at the longer-term issues. There certainly wasn't going to be anything revolutionary in the first six months. There are things happening now that merit a bit of time and consideration and I will be able to give them full attention." Indo Sport 
