sport gaa
{  
    October 05 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/countywide-27364755.html }
LOTTO: The results of the Ballyduff GAA Club weekly lotto draw for Monday, Sept 26 was as follows.The numbers drawn were 4, 5, 10, 11. There was no winner of the ?9,500 jackpot and the following won ?50 each. Ann Lucid, Ardoughter, Noreen Moughty, Bishopscourt, Ann Bunyan, Tillaughtna, Causeway.TV DRAW: Pat Scanlan, c/o Brodericks Bar, Listowel, Paddy Dalton, Benmore, Cathal LOTTO: The results of the Ballyduff GAA Club weekly lotto draw for Monday, Sept 26 was as follows. The numbers drawn were 4, 5, 10, 11. There was no winner of the ?9,500 jackpot and the following won ?50 each. Ann Lucid, Ardoughter, Noreen Moughty, Bishopscourt, Ann Bunyan, Tillaughtna, Causeway. TV DRAW: Pat Scanlan, c/o Brodericks Bar, Listowel, Paddy Dalton, Benmore, Cathal Slattery, Glounerdalive. ADULT EDUCATION: An Tochar adult education have places on the following courses, introduction and intermediate computers, ECDL, internet and e mail, art, dog grooming, flower arranging, sugar craft, decorative metalwork and wood turning. Anybody interested is asked to contact 0667131977. KDYS LISTOWEL: Evening classes in FETAC childcare level 1 and 2, will be held in Listowel KDYS. Enrolment on this Wednesday, October 5, 4.30pm to 6.30pm. Cost ?25 and ?40. Applicants must be aged between 15, and 21. IRISH NIGHT: Ballyduff Branch of Comhaltas Ceoltoiri Eireann will hold an Irish night at Your Mans Bar, on this Saturday night, October 8. A special appeal is being made for set dancers, young and old, to come along and perform the old Ballyduff tradition of set dancing. FASHION SHOW: In aid of Ballincrossig NS will take place at Ballyroe Heights Hotel on Thursday, October 20 at 8.30pm sharp. Admission is ?5 and there will also be raffles and spots. The following business will be featured, Metercare, Sean Hussey, Alex and Co, Kidee Bells, Top Shop, Eastex, Annburys, Roches Stores, Evans, Shaws, Statement, Caroline Leahy, Celsius, Punta Roma and Tuxedo. FOOTBALL: Ballyduff footballers completed their Div 5 Co league campaign, with a victory over Knocknagoshel away on Saturday evening last. Ballyduff captured the Div 5 title, with a 3-9 to 3-3 victory, and are promoted to Div 4 of the Co senior football league for 2006. Ballyduff lined out as follows P Harrington, S O’Connor, P Donegan, B O’Sullivan, D O’Grady, S Costello, G O’Grady, P O’Grady, D Donegan, E Joy, J P Leahy, B O’Grady, J Houlihan, T O’Rourke, J Bunyan. Subs G O’Brien, for J P Leahy, T J Linnane for B O’Sullivan, M Houlihan for T O’Rourke, G Guerin for G O’Grady. GOLDEN JUBILEE: A dinner dance has been organised to honour the victorious Ballyduff senior hurling team of 1955 who won the Co senior HC for the first time since 1891. IN winning this title, Ballyduff broke a 64 year stalemate and set the platform for many more victories. The dinner dance will take place at the Ballyroe Heights Hotel on Friday, October 28. People are travelling far and near for the occasion, and a great night is assured. Tickets will be available from club officers from this weekend. Your support will be greatly appreciated. GOLF NEWS: The results of the Ballyduff GS outing for September are as follows. 1st John Ahern (19) 42 pts, 2nd Noel Kneatsey (14) 39, 3rd P J Houlihan (17) 39, 4th Keith Sheehan 918) 38. Category 1 David Walsh (8) 37. Category 2 Miley Costello (17) 33. Category 3 Mick Ryan (20) 33. Guest section Joe Curtin (14) 41. The Ballyduff GS next outing is to Lahinch Old Course in Co Clare on Saturday, Oct 22. Tee times are reserved from 11.10am to 12.30pm. All names to the Society Secretary on 0667131806 to make sure your name is on the time sheet on the day. FIXTURES: Saturday, Oct 8, NK u15 hurling Ballyheigue v Ballyduff at Ballyheigue 4.30pm. Sunday, Oct 9, NK u13 football, Ballyduff v Bally/Asdee at Ballyduff 11am. Sunday, Oct 9, Co JFC semi final, Ballyduff v Ardfert at Na Gaeil Pitch 1pm. KHF Very many thanks to everyone who donated so generously to the recent pattern day and coffee day collections. The total amount raised this year was ?2,854, and is greatly appreciated by the Kerry Hospice Foundation. GAA: The Ballyheigue senior hurlers were defeated by Kilmoyley in the re play of the N Kerry c’ship final at Ballyheigue on Saturday evening. Full time score Ballyheigue 2-5, Kilmoyley 0-14. FIXTURE: N Kerry u15 c’ship Ballyheigue v Ballyduff at Ballyheigue, Saturday evening 4.30. LOTTO: Congrats to Ger O’Grady, Marian Park, who won the ?2.450 jackpot in the Ballyheigue GAA lotto on Saturday night. Winning numbers were 1, 2, 13, 19. Next weeks jackpot will be ?1,000. FAMILY RESOURCE CTR: Cois Farraige After School Club is now open at the Centre five days a week, Monday to Friday from 2pm to 5.30pm. We cater for children from junior infants to 6th class. A healthy snack is provided. Homework is supervised and a variety of games are time tabled for each evening. Transport provided from both Bouleenshere and Glenderry Schools and is included in the cost. Some places available. More info contact 0667116961. OUTREACH CLINIC FOR HARD OF HEARING: Will hold next clinic on Wednesday, Nov 2, and not this Wednesday, as already advertised. NORTH KERRY Together Jobs Club in association with Kerry/Ballyheigue Family resource centre, are commencing a 4 week job club training programme at the Bayside Centre on Monday October 10th at 10a.m. There are still a few vacancies,for further information please contact Michael or Tina at 06824981. COURSING CLUB LOTTO: Numbers drawn 9, 12, 17, 24. No jackpot winner. Consolation winners ?50 each, Eddie Whelan, Hartys Tce, Tom Dineen c/o Flahives, ?25 each, Mary McKenna, Abbeydorney, Michael Corridan, Centra. Next weeks jackpot ?9,850, will be held at White Sands on Sunday, October 9. MEETING: A meeting of Ballyheigue coursing club will be held in the Castle Arms on this Thursday, October 6 at 9.30pm. AS I post my weekly notes to Tralee on Mondays, I am not longer able to meet the new deadline of 1pm on Monday for receipt of copy at the Kerryman Office. To meet that deadline, I will have to post notes on Fridays so from here on any items for inclusion must be with me by Thursday 9pm at the latest. This is very unsatisfactory, as most events are usually held during week ends, and so in future details of reports and results etc will not appear in the following issue of The Kerryman. Of course I could meet the deadline if I purchase a fax machine or paid to have my copy faxed each week, and be compensated for same. That is something I know will not happen, and as my notes have been hand written and posted for the past 45 years, I intend to carry on doing the same for however long more I stay on as the local correspondent. I can be contacted at 06843173. BALLYLONGFORD/TARBERT CCE: Singing lessons with teacher Mary Mulvihill, Moyvane are taking place in the parish Hall. Enrolment and classes this Wednesday, October 5 at 5pm. AGE ACTIVE WEEK: As part of age active week, Eilish Ashe will attend the Eddie Carmody Community Centre on Friday morning, October 7, to teach dance movement to the members of the active retirement group. Everybody male and female, over 55 years is welcome. GOLF SOCIETY: The members of Ballylongford GS will travel to Killorglin golf club for their next outing on Saturday, October 5. Tee times 10am to 12 noon. Draw for partners will take place at the Community Centre this Thursday night, October 6 at 9.30pm sharp. BOAT CLUB MEETING: There will be a meeting of boat club members at the boat club house in Saleen on Wednesday night at 9pm. For anybody who is interested for one hour before the meeting, starting at 8pm, Wally will be giving a class on knot tying etc. COAT FOUND: There was a brown suede jacket found on the stage after the oyster competition on Friday, Sept 16. If you own it or know who might own it, please contact Finucanes Bar, 06843243. LOTTO RESULTS: There were no winners this week. The numbers were: 5, 21, 23, 28. Lucky Dips: Sally O Mahony, Cleveland, Denis Lyons, Barracilla, Helen Hayes, Barracilla, Les Philips Farranfore, Tadgh Kerins, Gurranemore. Sellers prize went to Tom Leen. Next week‚s lotto will be held in Glenduff House. Lotto Jackpot is: ?4450.00. CONGRATS: Ballymac GAA Club would like to congratulate Ger and Colette Collins, Reamore on the recent birth of their baby boy. Congratulations must also be extended to Ger Lynch on his recent excellent refereeing of Minor game in Killorglin. VOTE OF SYMPATHY: Ballymac GAA club would like to extend their sympathy to Der Flynn and family on the recent death of his sister. Ballymacelligott GAA Club Lotto: The numbers drawn on Saturday 1st October 2005 were 5, 21, 23, 28. The Jackpot of ?4,300 was not won. Lucky Dip winners (?30 each) were Sally O'Mahony (Cleveland), Denis Lyons (Barracilla), Les Phillips(Farranfore), Helen Hayes (Barracilla), Tadgh Kerins (Gurranemore). Seller's Prize: Tom Leen. The next draw will take place on Saturday 8th October at Glenduff House for a jackpot of ?4,450. HANDBALL: All Ireland 60x30 Semi Finals/Munster 60x30 Championship: Last week turned out to be a very busy one for our local players. Three of our Lady Handballers and one of our Juvenile Boys were in action at All Ireland and Munster Level. Ashley Prendeville [Ballydwyer], Catriona Casey [Gortalea], Lisa Falvey [Caher] and Cian Counihan [Shanacnoc] were all victorious in their games. Ashley beat Karen Lawlor in the Ladies 60x30 Minor Singles Munster Final on Wednesday last in Ballymac, and then went on to defeat Ellen O Keefe [Roscommon] in the All Ireland Semi Final in Roscommon. The Ballydwyer girl will be hoping to emulate her success in the 40x20 Code, as she has captured the 40x20 Minor Singles earlier this year. Catriona Casey overcame Marion Coleman [Tipperary] last Saturday in Broadford, in the Ladies 60x30 Junior Singles Munster Final. Lisa Falvey had two game during the week-on Monday last she beat Fidelma O Reilly in the Munster Semi Final of the Ladies 60x30 Junior B Singles in Ballymac. The Caher girl then went on to defeat Sarah Flavin in the Munster Final in Ballingarry on Friday. Cian Counihan won his Munster Semi Final against Mark Kennedy [Tipp] at Ballina, in the U15 Singles 60x30 grade on Saturday last. Well done to Cian and all the girls-a clean sweep of victories in their games. After last week's games, Ballymac will have three players in All Ireland Semi Finals next Sunday. Ballymac will host a triple header of 60x30 All Ireland Semi Finals on Sunday next October 9th starting at 1pm: Catriona Casey [60x30 Junior Singles], Ashley Prendeville partners Karen Lawlor [Tralee] in the 60x30 Minor Doubles while Lisa Falvey completes the lineup in the 60x30 Junior B Singles. Ashley led the way this week in winning her Semi-Final, so good luck to everyone next Sunday and lets hope for more success. It is a great achievement for the local girls to reach the All Ireland Semi Finals, and it is a great honour for Ballymac Handball Club to host this series of games. We would ask for a big turnout for the local players, and keep our fingers crossed for them-good luck girls! Remember-Sunday October 9 Ballymac Handball Club @ 1pm; All Ireland 60x30 Semi Finals KERRY TEAM HOLIDAY FUND - Tickets for the Car Raffle, in aid of the Holiday Fund for the County Senior Football Team are with members of the Club. We would ask everyone to be generous in their support of this venture, as the Footballers have given it their all this year-and just came up that bit short on Final Day. Kerry GAA County Board/Players/Management/Families have made a lot of sacrifices and put in a tremendous amount of work over the year. Tickets cost ?10 each and draw will take place on December 16th. World Handball Championships are on in Edmonton-Canada next year, from August 4-13. Competitions are open to everyone young and old; anyone interested should be preparing their itinerary as soon as possible. There are a huge number of competitions taking place: Juveniles range from U11 up to U17, plus all Senior and Master Grades. Full details available on Irish Handball Website [www.handball.ie]-go to Links, or go to info2006-worlds.ca A more detailed rundown of games/events during the week are available, in the Sports Section of The Kerryman.It has the full results of all games during the week, and the details of any forthcoming Fixtures/Events. DANCING CLASSES: For children commencing this Saturday from 3pm to 4.30pm by Liam Goggin Kielduff Community Centre. Shoebox Appeal - A meeting will be held next Wed ,12 th Oct,might at the Kerry Parents Friends in LIstowel where the Shoebox sorting took place last year, It is a meeting for anyone who might like to help and be involved in any part of the event. Do come anong and help.Closing date is the 10 th Nov. Congratulations to Danny Downey Brosna who won the New York Championship on Sunday last with the Kerry Club. Kerry played Cavan in the Final and defeated them by three points. This was a great achievement for Danny who lined out on the half forward line for all games holding his place amongst some of Kerry‚s finest like Bingo Driscoll, Johnny Crowley, Donnacha Walsh, Pa Murphy, Niall Corbett only to mention a few. We wish them all the best again for next year and hope they regain their title. All Ireland Final Tickets: On behalf of all Patrons who received tickets for the All Ireland we would like to take this opportunity to Thank the officers of the Brosna Club especially the Chairman Tim Murphy on the splendid job he did over the weeks distributing All Ireland Final Tickets YOUTH CLUB AGM: Camp Youth Club AGM took place on Friday night. Over 30 parents attended to enroll members for the coming year. Bonny O Donnell reported on a successful and enjoyable club year with members participating in Indoor Soccer, Quiz and other activities. This year the club will maintain boundaries in order to reduce membership, have a smaller club and thus enable the leaders to introduce a more varied programme of events. Camp Youth Club membership is now within the boundaries of Curaheen Shop and Lisnagree and Glenmore Bridge. Johanne Kelliher retired as Chairperson of the Parents Committee. Norah Crean, Camp Representative, KDYS West Kerry Mini Region and former Officer Camp Parents Committee highly commended Johanne for her excellent commitment and contribution to the club over the last 4 years. Incoming Chairman Tom O Connor also thanked Johanne and everybody present agreed that she had done a wonderful job with the young people. Officers elected for the coming year : Chairman: Tom O Connor Co-Chairperson: Colleen Healy, Secretary: Mairead Crean, Treasurers: Frances O Connor and Lee-Anne Kennedy, Sports Officer: Gearoid O Shea. SUCCESS: Congratulations to Gearoid O Shea, Upper Camp who recently graduated at C.I.T. Cork with a Bachelor of Structural Engineering, Honours Degree. Gearoid has recently taken up a post as an Engineer with the Department of the Marine in Tralee. Best of luck Gearoid and well done !! YOUTH CLUB: Meeting in the Club Rooms on Wednesday, 5th October at 8pm. This will be a final meeting. If new leaders are not in place, the Club will close and it will be up to the parents to initiate its reopening. CASTLEGREGORY NEWSLETTER: We are now looking for articles, poems, jokes etc., or if you wish to advertise for the next issue, please contact the Information Office. 066-7139422. Remember, copies are available at the Information Centre and at many of the local shops. COUNTRY MARKET: The Country Market is now open on Sundays from 11am to 1pm until further notice. BINGO Every Tuesday evening in the Clubrooms. Doors open at 7:30 pm. Visitors welcome. Proceeds towards the Church Renovation Fund. TEEN SCENE A new initiative by Kerry Local Sports Partnership to promote physical activity for teenage girls aged 12-17 is currently underway. It is a 16-week session (1 hour per week). Exercise to modern music. Further details, contact Bernie Dowling at 71-39188. SEWING CLASSES - Anyone interested in sewing classes, please leave your name and number at the Information Centre (71-39422). COISTE NA NOG: All our younger players are invited to participate in our end of season u-10’s and u-8’s blitz which takes place next Sunday, October 9th in Pairc an Caislean at 11:00 a.m. U-13’s next game is away to Annascaul Sunday, Oct. 9th at 1:00 p.m. Meet at Lynch’s Spar at 12:00 p.m. GAA: There was no winner of the GAA lotto last Tuesday (27th). The numbers were 2, 4, 22, 25. Consolation prizes went to Loughlin O Leary, Mary and Rachel Castlegregory Post Office, Mike Moriarty, Geirt Spillane, Laura Ruddy. Next Weeks Lotto takes place in Mulalleys bar in Brandon Tuesday the 11th of October. Next Senior game is against Kenmare, the date of which has not been finalised yet. TIDY TOWNS:The committee wish to express their sincere thanks to every one, who helped our entry this year. Again we increased our marks and we are now 7th highest in the Co out of a total of 39. As our preparation for participation is costing more each year, and it is harder to raise funds, we are holding a church gate collection this week. Kindly support our fund raising to enable to improve our own place. WEDDING BELLS: Congrats to John Walsh, Marian Terrace and Pauline Hussey, Ardoughter who got married on Saturday. GAA LOTTO: There was no winner of the lotto jackpot. The numbers drawn were 13, 14, 23, 24. The following won ?50, John Donegan, Farran, Eoin Quilter, Feans, John O’Hara. Next weeks jackpot ?5,100. CARD DRIVE: The results of the 41 card drive held at Hartys, Sept 30, winners Joan Kenny, Kathy Neilan. Runners up Angela Leahy, D J Leahy, John Leahy, Marion Harty. Sunday, 2nd, winners Joan Kenny, Paddy Hussey, runner up Gerald Lawlor, Noreen O’Connor. Next drive Friday and Sunday. GAA: This Sunday we host the minor county semi final at 12.oo between Ballyheigue/Abbeydorney V Lixnaw /Crotta O'Neills at 12.00. COUNTY LEAGUE FINAL: We are due to play Ballyheigue in the Co League Final this game is scheduled for 16/9/05 in Austin Stacks Park GOLF: This Saturday the 79 committee host there annual golf tournament.this takes tees off in ballyheigue at 3.00pm,any enquiries to John Canty before this time. ICA: The next meeting of the Spa- Fenit ICA will take place in the Oyster Barn, Spa on Wednesday night next at October 12, after the Annual Mass in Churchill at 8pm. Al members are asked to attend. SYMPATHY: Is extended to the family and relatives of Mrs Casey (nee Higgins), Knockanish, Spa who died last weekend at the very advanced age of 91. PARISH MISSION: The Parish Mission got off to a great start last Sunday. A large crowd attended at the Blessing of Babies and younger children. Thanks to Peggy Daly and JJ Crowley who supplied the entertainment for this fun event. The Mission will conclude this Saturday night at the Vigil Mass. COMMUNITY GAMES: First of all we would like to thank very sincerely the local Macra na Feirme for their very generous donation to our funds, which had reached a low ebb as we had a lot of Mosney expenses this year. Unfortunately due to unforeseen circumstances, the local committee cancelled the awards night, arranged for last Friday night. This will now be held at a later date. Apologies to all. GAA: Results of last lottery at the Oyster Tavern were 4, 16, 21, 24. There was no jackpot winner. Lucky dips were Seanie Griffin, Barrow; James O’Shea, Beachpool; Sinead Cotter, Ballygarron; Emer Moriarty, Fenit. MACRA: Last Saturday night the Club presented a cheque for ?5,000 to the Rosemary Centre, Tralee which cares for people with Alzheimer’s. The money was raised during our Field Evening, and will go to help the centre expand its current range of services. We also made a donation to our local Community Games and we would like to thank all those involved for their help and support. ST BRENDANS HERITAGE AND AMENITY PARK: The official opening at Fenit Pier on Sunday next, October 9, at 3pm, will be attended by Mr John O’Donoghue TD, Minister for Arts, Sport and Tourism, and Archbishop Dermot Clifford of Cashel. The Park which adjoins the Statue of St Brendan is wheel-chair friendly and incorporates copies of Celtic artefacts such as an Ogham stone, a Riasc Stone, a Triskee stone, a beehive hut and a wedge grave. On Saturday, October 15, the Heritage Group are organising a night at the dogs at Tralee Track to raise funds for this venture. SEIRBHIS BAILITHE BRUSCAIR HALLA LE CHEILE. Beidh an chead bailiu eile o'n Halla ar an Aoine seo an 7u Deire Fomhair do ghnath malai bruscair. Beidh eolas ar na datai ar na notai seo gach seachtain go foill. COMMUNITY REFUSE COLLECTION FROM HALLA LE CHEILE. Kerry County Council have changed the collection days from Halla Le Cheile. Please note that the next collection day for wheelie bin refuse will be this Friday October 7th. Information on future collections will be posted in the notes until further notice. MISIUN AN CHEID Deanfar ceiliuradh ar crÌoch Mhisiun an Cheid i Halla Le Cheile ag tosnu thart ar a 8.30 ar an Sathran beag seo. Ta cead mile failte roimh cach go dti an ceiliuradh seo. CENTENARY MISSION A celebration to mark the conclusion of the Centenary Mission will be held in Halla Le Cheile commencing at approximately 8.30p.m. We welcome parishioners to this event to celebrate the success of the Mission. RANGANNA OICHE Beidh bunchursa riomhaireachta agus Gaeilge do thosnaitheoiri ag tosnu i Halla Le Cheile go luath. Ma ta suim agat freastal cur glaoch ar Mhairin sa Halla ag 7138137 NIGHT CLASSES. Computers for Beginners and Irish for Beginners night classes will commence in Halla Le Cheile soon. Classes will take place one night per week for 10 weeks two hours per session. If you wish to enrole please call to Mairin at Halla Le Cheile or call 7138137. TUISTI & LEANAI Beidh grupa Tuismitheoiri agus Leanai ag bualadh i Halla Le Cheile gach maidin De Luain ag tosnu ar 10.00rn. Failte roimh tuismitheoiri caomhnoiri agus feighlithe leanai. Beidh ciorcal Comhra do thuismitheoiri leanai oga ag tosnu go luath chomh maith. Failte roimh daoine go mbeadh suim acu pairt a ghlacadh ann. PARENT AND TODDLER: A Parent and Toddler Group will meet in Halla Le Cheile every monday at 10.00 am. Parents Gaurdians and childminders are welcome to attend this social gathering. A Conversational Irish group for beginners will also be commencing soon on Friday mornings and we welcome people who wish to take part. This is aimed at people who are interested in partaking in basic Irish in an informal setting. Further information is available from Mairin in Halla Le Cheile or call 7138137. FOCAL BUIOCHAIS: Ba mhaith le tuismitheoiri Scoil an Chlochain buiochas a ghabhail le Udaras na Gaeltachta as ucht an deontas a chuireadar ar fail chun ioc as bus chun leanai a thabhairt ag snamh. PEIL Beidh blitz peile faoi 8 agus faoi 10 ar siul i bPairc Peile Chaislean Ghraighre ar an Sathran beag seo ag tosnu ar 11.00 rn. Seo an teacht le cheile deireannach do 2005 agus iarrtar ar gach imreoir a bheith i lathair. Beidh bronnadh boinn agus coisir ann chomh maith. FOOTBALL BLITZ: There will be a mini football blitz for U 8s and U 10s at Castlegregory Sportsfield on Saturday October 9th at 11.00 am. All players are urged to attend this last get together of 2005. A medal presentation and party will take place. FEILIRI AN LEITHTRIUIGH Ta Feiliri 2006 ar fail anois ar chostas 10 euro in s'na siopai, na tithe tabhairne, Ionad Eolais agus Halla Le Cheile. Beidh pe brabus a deanfar ag dul ar mhaithe le ciste Chlos Sugartha Chlochain Bhreanainn. Buiochas le Coiste Glor na nGael agus na daoine go leir a chuir pictuiri alainn ar fail don dtogra seo. FEILIRI AN LEITHTRIUIGH 2006 calenders are now available at a cost of 10 euro in local shops, bars, the Information Centre and in Halla Le Cheile. Profits from the sales will go to the Clochan Breanainn Community Playground, a most worthy cause. Well done to Coiste Glor na nGael and to the Photographers who kindly donated their beautiful photographs to this project. TRAENAIL FETAC Beidh dha mhodul de FETAC Leibheal 11 i gCuram Leanai Riachtanaisi Speisialta agus Saibhriu na Gaeilge a reachtail ag Comhar Naionrai na Gaeltachta ag tosnu ar an 15U Deire Fomhair i mBaile Bhuirne. Gach eolas le fail o Mhaire Aine ag 7138216. THE Irish cancer society will take up a Church gate collection on Sunday next. Please support a worthy cause. COURSE: An 8 week course in interior design commences at the Comm Ctr on October 6. Contact Sinead O’Connor, 0667142576. INDOOR MARKET: The parents and friends of the mentally handicapped will hold their indoor market on Friday next, October 7 at 8pm. DUTIES: Readers for Sunday, October 9, are Noelle Enright and Aoife Brosnan. Eucharistic Ministers Sheila Kearney, Tom Wrenn and Geraldine Hickey. Altar servers, Sean Brosnan, Philip O’Connor and David O’Leary. Collectors for October, are Teresa Walsh, Tom Wrenn, Kathleen Walsh and Sheila Kearney. Cleaners for October, Kathleen Walsh and Teresa Walsh. OBSEQUIES: The death has taken place in Skerries of Mrs Kitty O’Mahony (nee Sheehan) late of Cordal. Sympathy is extended to her family and all relatives. Suaimhneas Siorrai uirthi. WELL done to Cordal seniors, who beat Duagh in the semi final of the Co junior c’ship last week end. They are through to Junior Co final, they will meet either Ardfert or Tarbert, who must play. This was a great team performance, Tom O’Connor scored some marvellous points. Final score Cordal 1-14, Duagh 0-10. Activity Day: A very successful activity day was held in Dingle last Saturday with participants of all ages taking part. Thanks to all of the local clubs and tutors that helped out on the day. Thanks also to the three venues, CBS, Meanscoil na Toirbithe and the Skellig Hotel for accommodating us. One of the most popular sports for children in the CBS was athletics but there is no athletics club in the Dingle area at the moment. Kerry Local Sports Partnership is willing to support the establishment of a club in the area but in order for a club to operate it is essential that a number of local people are involved. If you are interested in being involved contact Ursula or Imelda in the Sports Office at 066-7183794. LOTTO:The GAA lotto jackpot was not won last week.A new jackpot of ?2,400 will be available at the next draw on this Friday night October 7th at The Elm Bar.Numbers drawn last week were:5,14,19,22. no jackpot winner. ?20 each to:Eoin Kelly c/o Mary Kelly,Jessica Hillard 17 Cois Aird,Katie Ahern Duagh,Ted Halpin Foildarrig,John Somers Knockreigh. 5 free tickets each to:Pat Lyons Guhard,Helena O Carroll Foildarrig,Michael Ahern Duagh,Phil Corridan c/o Kerry Group,Eileen Collins c/o Kieran Quirke. Sellers prize:Dan Carmody. BORD:The Duagh Bord na nÓg Under 12 team was beaten by one point by Moyvane in the semi final of the North Kerry Championship recently. SCHOOL:Duagh NS schools team defeated Dromclough NS in Duagh on September 30th in the North Kerry Cumann na mBunscol league. Duagh NS will meet Lixnaw BNS this week in Lixnaw. SCHOOL: Duagh NS is now online and has a .com website with a web address www.duaghnationalschool.com. The website is not fully loaded as yet but information will be posted over the next few weeks. Information on Duagh NS may be had from the school by email by contacting: info@duaghnationalschool.com GAA: Duagh seniors will play Brosna in the first round of the North Kerry Championship in a few weeks time. Duagh played Cordal in the semi final of the County junior championship at Knocknagoshel last weekend.After a lack lustre display the team was defeated by six points. KING: Congratulations to our parish priest Fr Pat Moore who was crowned 'King of the Wrenboys'at the wrenboy competition in Listowel during race week. DOGS: Well done to Pat O Connell of the Village who had a good win at Tralee greyhound track recently. BASKETBALL: The St. Josephs boys basketballers got off to a flying start on Wednesday night the 28th of September last when they played St. Annes of Farranfore. The under 10 boys were on first this team included locals Carraig McNulty, Sean Scanlon, Oisin Mangan and Padraig O‚Donoghue. The under 10 league this year is a participation league with no scores being recorded. The game was keenly contested and enjoyed by all. Next up were the under 12 boys a lot of whom are playing competitively this year for the first time. The team received an extra boost this year with the inclusion of Eamon McKenna and John McCarthy from Lyracrompane. Eamon‚s height has been a great help to the team. All the boys played extremely well on the night and came out deserving winners on a 21 -14 score line. Locals in this team included Nigel O‚Connor, Aaron O‚Connor, Gerard McCarthy, Thomas Scanlon, Shane Horgan, Daniel Meehan and Diarmuid Kirby. The girls section of the club have their first outing of the year on Sunday next the 2nd of October when they make the trip to UL in Limerick who are involved in the Kerry Leagues for the first time this year. The club would like to welcome all new members this year and hope they have a very enjoyable year. 
