sport gaa
{  
    September 05 2007 04:13 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/frustratedgpa-ready-for-battle-over-grant-dispute-26315830.html }
The Gaelic Players Association is preparing to whip the gloves off again in an effort to highlight their frustration over the vexed issue of grant payments. Some f5million is still on the table, but so far the Government -- who are providing the money for the welfare of inter-county players -- and the GAA yet to reach an agreement. The levels of frustration among GPA members are now so high according to its chief executive Dessie Farrell that they called a national executive meeting last Friday night to make a proposal to have four regional meetings of their squad representative across the country over the next two weeks. Describing the situation as "grave" and intimating that they are not been taken seriously, Farrell revealed that he personally contacted Taoiseach Bertie Ahern last week to try and help to solve the impasse. But GAA president Nickey Brennan hit back yesterday and re-iterated the GAA's commitment to the grants issue. Brennan said the blame can't be laid at the GAA's door and he expressed a personal wish that "All these issues could be brought to a head and cleared out as quickly as possible." Little progress has been made in the last 12 months since the GAA gave their blessing to the acceptance, by its inter-county players, of 45m from exchequer funds. Farrell says the frustration is creeping towards the same levels as they were in March 2006, when a threatened strike was averted and replaced instead by a 15 minute delay to a round of league matches as a protest . Farrell feels the Government and GAA are both culpable for the stalemate but accepts that there is a will on the GAA's behalf to see it through. "We called a national executive meeting last Friday night to discuss the issue and it was decided there that due to the level of frustration we've experienced from players, something needed to be done" he said. "It has been dragging its heels and players aren't going to tolerate it for much longer. There needs to be a focusing of minds." The GPA have sought an earlier meeting with Minister for Arts, Sports and Tourism, Seamus Brennan because of the "gravity" of the situation. The Government doesn't want to pay the grants directly to the players because of fears that the floodgates will open with other sportspeople seeking similar remuneration. Instead they want to give the money to the GAA through increased infrastructural funding, allowing the GAA to distribute it directly instead. The GAA won't agree to that because they feel it is paramount to pay for play and a standoff has been reached. Some g5million is "We have no problem with the Government paying the money to the players. We have said that all along," stressed Brennan. "But we have explained to the former Minister for Sport (John O'Donoghue) that the method of distribution he was talking about is not a runner for the GAA. We're not going to revisit that. "We have no problem if they want the Sports Council to be the facilitators, but suggesting that we would get the money via infrastructural grants is not what we are going to get into. "We are still committed to and supportive of the process, the frustration shouldn't be taken out on the GAA." Farrell takes a different view "If grants are paid to the players the GAA don't have an issue with it as long as they are not seen to be paying it directly because they are equating it to pay for play which is absolute nonsense. We would categorically dispute this because it is not their (GAA) money." Farrell hopes that the Sports Council, the GPA's original point of contact, can be the brokers in all of this. "We feel the Sports Council should be engaged. There is a similar scheme set up through the Arts Council, the 'Aos Dana' scheme in which artists and poets receive funding for the cultural contribution they make. Surely the same could be established for inter-county players who receive such a contribution to the social fabric. From day one it was the Sports Council we wanted to engage this with." Brennan defended the GAA's record on player welfare during his term of office, instead pointing to the appointment of Paraic Duffy as the first player welfare manager as "making serious inroads into that area." The GAA hope also hopes to meet with Minister Brennan in the coming weeks with Brennan keen that the GPA take part in those discussions. 
