sport gaa
{  
    November 23 2008 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/testing-times-ahead-for-gaa-26494324.html }
IT is six years now since Al Guy, a doping control officer with the Irish Sports Council, was man-handled out of a Waterford dressing room when he attempted to test two players after a Munster championship game in Thurles. It was just a year since the GAA, following a protracted bout of soul-searching, had signed up to the Council's anti-doping programme and tempers, among the rank and file, were wearing thin. The years since have brought a working but uneasy truce. A tester arriving at a training ground to find that, unbeknownst to him, a switch was made at the last minute isn't unknown while aggravation after games when the business of providing a urine sample has to be conducted is a more common occurrence. Does it demean the player or is it merely the downside of an unpleasant but necessary process? The GAA is grappling with the question long after most other sports accept it as routine. Players and team officials co-operate with doping officials now but, more often than not, they do so through gritted teeth and with the unwavering belief that, in subjecting themselves to the procedure, they are being gravely wronged. If a poll was taken among its membership right now, how certain would you be that the GAA would elect to stay within the programme? At the very least, it would be a close call. It is easy to be sympathetic towards Aidan O'Mahony, the Kerry footballer, whose test after the All-Ireland final revealed an adverse finding in relations to the use of salbutamol, a drug used in the treatment of asthma, just as it was possible to feel sorry for Denis Lynch when his horse tested positive for a banned substance at the Olympics or when Geraldine Hendricken fell prey to a contaminated supplement in 2004. The anti-doping process must be a hard, clinical business though. Sympathy cannot cloud the judgemental process. O'Mahony was one of five Kerry footballers tested this year and, assuming there will be in the region of 70 tests carried out on GAA players in 2008, it could be argued that this was a high proportion of tests for one county to bear. Kerry people could take this as a sign of their team's dedication and enduring excellence or they could see it as further evidence of a national conspiracy against them, embracing the role of victimhood they have steadfastly clung to all year. It has never been fun for any sport which chooses to embrace the modern world of preserving its doping integrity. It's hard to believe three Olympics have passed since the days when, rather than wade through pages of detailed medical analysis, people simply chose to look at Michelle Smith's hair and proclaim her incapable of committing a doping offence. And it's only 10 years since a prominent IRFU doctor expressed the view that the effect of performance-enhancing drugs was purely psychological. The GAA isn't the only sport slow to adapt to a culture of non-tolerance in the area of drugs. When Gary Player raised the spectre of illegal substances in golf before last year's British Open, there was an immediate chorus of denials from officials and players alike. Not in our back yard, they loudly claimed. Golfers have only been tested since July. Yet the idea that O'Mahony has been badly treated isn't sustainable. Dope testing, by its nature, is a violation of privacy which the athlete willingly subscribes to when he belongs to an organisation that signs up to the programme. The easy answer is that if GAA players feel being subjected to doping control is too much of an imposition, then they should think twice about playing at the highest level in the first place. We know that after the All-Ireland final it took O'Mahony in the region of two hours to provide a urine sample and such inconvenience is regrettable. Kilkenny officials were incensed when a similar situation occurred with one of their players after the 2006 hurling final and subsequently called for the anti-doping system to be overhauled. Amateur players, they say, shouldn't have to face such stringent measures. Yet outside of the GAA plenty do and never whine about it. During the Olympics, one Irish boxer had a tortuous time providing a sample after a fight but you didn't hear boxing officials complaining or suggesting the system needed changing. It is true that other athletes get a few quid in the shape of grants, a tidy sum in a few cases, but other athletes sacrifice careers in order to train full time. The GAA doesn't own the definitive rights to hardship. The idea that the GAA, alone of organisations who receive state funding, should enjoy special treatment is nonsensical. In truth, it already does anyway. Its ratio of out-of-competition to in-competition tests is much lower than nearly every other sport. The few out-of-competition tests that take place, a mere 17 in 2007, are only conducted in specially designated training venues. No GAA players are visited at their homes or in their places of work. Other athletes do not receive this dispensation. Dope testing is an evil but necessary nuisance most athletes bear stoically. Consider one Irish athlete who made his breakthrough in 2000 and was tested 12 times that year. Around 2004, he fell off the carding list but still reckons he has been tested at least once every year since. Once his mother woke him at seven in the morning to tell him a tester was standing on the doorstep. He roused himself and did what he had to do. Or take the high-jumper who needed three hours after an indoor meeting in Nenagh and ended up missing a flight from Shannon because of it. Then there was the athlete at an event in Europe who, on the verge of collapse after an exhausting race, was urged to drink beer in order to speed up the testing process. There are as many such stories as there are athletes in the country. To some, it was unfortunate, or even sinister, that O'Mahony's name found its way into the public domain so quickly but this is the way of every high-profile drugs case. Either the name seeps out or the rumour mill goes into overdrive. So far the player has done everything perfectly, enlisting the services of a solicitor who has experience in the field, getting his story out before the newspapers had the chance to run wild with it. We shouldn't forget, of course, that as of yet O'Mahony hasn't been charged with any offence, merely required to face the GAA's Anti-Doping Hearings' Committee to explain why his sample could have returned a high reading of salbutamol. If he is subsequently charged, then it will be up to the player to prove his innocence. Guilty until proven innocent: as harsh as it sounds, that is simply how the system works. O'Mahony would almost certainly vigorously fight such a charge and, given the divergent medical opinion that exists on the effectiveness of salbutamol as a performance enhancer, feel confident of success. It is believed that he tested marginally above the permitted level of 1,000 ng/ml. Five years ago the Munster hooker Frankie Sheahan recorded a level of 1,644 ng/ml and managed, upon appeal, to get a two-year ban reduced to three months. Earlier this year, the Scottish lock forward, Scott McLeod, tested positive for terbuteline, a similar substance to salbutamol, and escaped with a reprimand. On Friday, the Sports Council published new anti-doping rules that will come into effect in January and which mean the authorities will enjoy greater flexibility in the area of sanctions. So even if a case is found against O'Mahony, they will have the option of imposing a much less severe penalty than the stringent two-year ban he would face under current regulations as well as avoiding the bracing costs run up by Sheahan and others in similar positions. All told, such an outcome might well suit all parties. For now, the GAA has had its eyes opened further to the nasty realities of the outside world that it refuses to see encroaching upon them. However O'Mahony's case unfolds, the idea that the GAA should somehow be outside the remit of the testers is absurd. At a time when the issues of burn-out and the ever increasing demands on players are to the fore, it beggars belief that anyone would want it to be so. 
