sport gaa
{  
    June 21 2007 03:58 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/local-notes-27358218.html }
CHIROPODIST will attend at the Marian Hall, Moyvane on Saturday23rd of June, the senior citizens had their meeting during the week, several from the Parish went to the Glin Centre for an afternoon on Thursday last. SIX Lay Volunteers from the Diocese of Kerry are travelling to work in Kenya for four weeks. ST PIO Prayer Group will meet at Listowel Church on Thursday June 21 CHIROPODIST will attend at the Marian Hall, Moyvane on Saturday23rd of June, the senior citizens had their meeting during the week, several from the Parish went to the Glin Centre for an afternoon on Thursday last. SIX Lay Volunteers from the Diocese of Kerry are travelling to work in Kenya for four weeks. ST PIO Prayer Group will meet at Listowel Church on Thursday June 21st at 7.15pm, all are welcome. GAA: Bord na nOg under 8‚s and under 10‚s will train at the sports field on Tuesdays from 7.30pm to 8.30pm. Free athletic equipment is available to clubs, details from www.athleticsireland.ie GAA: Knockanure GAA Lotto results for 15th June, numbers drawn were 1-9-14-19 no winner of Jackpot E3,000 Lucky Dips went to the following, Maureen Lynch, 27 Clieveragh Park, Listowel; Aaron Whyte, Lisaniskea; Con Lynch, Gortdromagowna; Katie Ahern, The Height Duagh; Paddy Walsh c/o Kevin‚s; Dublin Joe c/o Kevin‚s; Bar Prize Paddy Wallace; next weeks Jackpot E3,100. MARKET: Farmers Market in Listowel every Friday from 10am to 2pm. Safe food authority tell us that only 20% of Irish people eat their recommended five a day. Nutrition and Health Foundation have a site at www.nutritionandhealth.ie VHI Healthcare tell us that 2,338 individuals required emergency treatment when the were abroad, costing over E8.7 million, it cost over E1.5 million to VHI to transport home their customers after emergency treatment abroad last year. ARTHRITIS Ireland are looking for volunteers for a walking challenge to climb 50 peaks around Ireland, details from 016618 188. OVEREATERS Anonymous meet in Listowel on Tuesday nights at 7.30pm, details from 087 7497 611. OUTING: Clounmacon ICA outing will take place on June 22nd `07 , details from 068 21101. GAMES: International Children‚s Games and Cultural Festival will open in Reykjavík on June 21st `07. KDYS Listowel Summer of fun, trips and activities , 20th June Go Karting, Picnic, In Kilcornan; 27th June Trip to Ballybunion Evening More activities to follow during Summer Months, ring KDYS, Listowel on 068 23744. CAMP IRISH Summer Camp for age 7-12 years will be held at the Family Centre Duagh from July 2nd to 13th, details from 068 45333. Presentation Family Centre Summer Camp runs from 2nd to 27th of July, they also have crèche places, more information from 068 23584. PROMOTION: Tom Stack from Irremore has been promoted by Sodexho as account Manager for the greater Cork area, he joined the company in 1988. STAFF from the revenue are due to begin work in their new office in Listowel on Monday June 25th `07. DIPLOMA in Youth and Community Work begins in September, details from the KDYS. EDUCATION: We often hear about the quality of Irish education, but a recent report on applications to the Irish Patent office show that Irish residents applied for 200 patents per million residents while in the United Kingdom 300 applications are made per million residents. Many of our students do not apply themselves diligently to school work considering it a drudge and something to dodge, few students know about the plight of child soldiers who are estimated to number 250,000. ESTUARY AC will train every Tuesday evening at Moyvane from 6pm to 7pm, athletes who competed in Castleisland recently included Muirne, Eadaoin and Saoimhe Wall, Rachel Moriarty, Kerryann, and Tara Finucane, Darragh and Shea Mc Donnell, Margaret Stackpoole, Stephanie Collins, Roisin Considine and Dale Mulvihill. BENEFIT Meeting will be held at Tralee Greyhound Track in aid of KGH on Friday July 6th DISABILITY: Booklet on the National Disability Plans are available from 1890 632 631, by last April all local authorities will have examined all structures under their care, to see if they are accessible to people with disabilities, all heritage sites should be accessible by the end of this year. BOOK: Drama Theory and Practice co authored by Paula Murphy of St Patrick‚s College, Dublin and Margaret O Keefe of Lisselton and Limerick, the book the first of its kind in Ireland was launched by the Minister for Education recently, Margaret is a distant cousin of Brendan Kennelly. Newsletter was recently launched at the Grand Hotel in Tralee for people affected by Cystic Fibrosis, about 45 people in Kerry have the condition. COMMUNITY Centre in Listowel have special offers for students if you apply before June 22nd to join their Health and Leisure Club; closing date for their summer camp is June 25th; their cardio challenge is to complete 262km; more information from 068 22244. UMBRA: All types of clean, dry, ladies, gents and children‚s clothing, also bed linen, curtains, towels and shoes needed. Collection on Thursday 21st June before 12 noon at Moyvane and Knockanure Church Car parks BEST Wishes to John Joe Barrett of Lower Athea and veteran of the Korean war who celebrated his 80th birthday recently. ST JOHN‚S: Wednesday 20th Tullamore- The Best of Traditional from Kansas bases trio; Wednesday 27th Prey-Classical Concert with Deirdre O Leary, Sile Daly and Susan Doyle, Picture Histury exhibition continues till the end of June, more information from 068 22566. SIAMSA: San am Fado production on every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and Clann Lir every Thursday and Saturday during June; Friday 22nd June Karen Casey and Band, details from 066 7123055. TINTEAN: Musical To Dance on the Moon continues till Thursday 21st, Dancehall Qs & Hucklebuck Shoes runs from 22nd to 23rd of June, Jon Kenny June 29th and 30th, details from 068 28003 or visit www.tintean.com EVENTS for June: More must be done for artists, to give them a higher profile, many tourists and visitors miss some fine artists and their works in their travels around the county; Kerry Archaeological and Historical Society field outing to Adhadoe is on Thursday 21st at 7.30pm, details from 066 7121200. Tarbert Historical Society will meet on Saturday 23rd at 9pm; Walk in aid of Crumlin Hospital will begin at the Brogue Inn on Sunday 24th , details from 066 712 5146; Summer Soccer Schools 2007, full details from 1890 653653 or visit www.fai.ie <http://www.fai.ie/> ; Ballyloughran Summer camp details are available from 068 47222; St Josephs Young Priests Society trip to Knock leaves the Square Listowel on 23rd of June at 7.45am, more information from 068 21768; Athea Motor Cycle road race begins on the 29th; Con Curtin Music Festival will be held at Brosna from 22nd to 24th of June; Ballybunion Batchelor Festival begins on 27th; GOLF: Enable Ireland Golf Classic will be held at Beaufort Golf Club on Friday 13th of July `07, details from 066 712 8220. Rally for Life will be held at the GPO in Dublin on Saturday July 7th at 1pm, bus leaves Abbeyfeale at 7.45am, details from 068 43123. WORK CAMP: 2007 workcamps will be held in the Killarney National Park and will run from June 17th to 9th of September; the first camp will be Irish language or bilingual, more information from www.groundwork.ie <http://www.groundwork.ie/> Kerry County Fleadh will be held at Milltown from 22nd to 24th of June; Racing at Castleisland on June 23rd and 24th in aid of Kerry Hospice foundation; Racing in Limerick on Friday 22nd; Summer Solstice June 21st; Munster Final: Kerry v Cork will be held at Killarney on July 1st , tickets are available from clubs. WALKERS: Athea walkers are out walking four miles every Wednesday night starting at 8pm. AWARD: Moyvane have won the North Kerry Walks award 2007, The Moyvane Village Walk is a lovely amenity and is greatly appreciated by nature lovers. POETRY Competition entries for the Brendan Kennelly Festival in Ballylongford close on June 30th `07, details from 068 43557. FLYING Boat will fly from Newfoundland to Foynes on July 6th`07 to re-enact the first passenger trials 70 years ago. AIR Corps are buying new helicopters and the present Dauphin and Gazelle helicopters are being sold off. One of the new helicopters has already flown 800 hours in its first year. Some of the older machines needed maintenance at 25, 50, 100, 200, 400 and 3,000 flight hours and so on. HORSE and Pony races will be held at Relihan‚s Inch, Kilcara on July 1st, first race 1.30pm. OPEN Day at Moorepark Research Centre is on June 21st. International Farm Management Conference will be held in Cork from 15th to 20th July `07, details from Aoife O Sullivan at UCC 021 4901 833. FLOWERS are in full bloom at Goulding‚s Corner in Knockanure, in Moyvane the ESB poles are decorated with hanging baskets and Kearney‚s window display continue with their fine array of artefacts and rare items. GILBERT O Sullivan is coming to perform in Killarney in the autumn, his many relations and followers in the locality will be delighted. PILGRIMAGE: to Lough Derg July 3rd to 5th also Night Vigil at Knock, for more information contact 068 31232. Knock Youth Festival 26th to the 29th of July, details from 094 9388 100. BEREAVEMENT Group which meet at Ballyloughran Leisure Centre have a contact number at 068 23429, Tarbert group contact 068 36401. Aware meet in Tralee every week, details from 066 712 8010. CEMETERIES in the locality are now being prepared for the Annual Masses, committees are asking people who have graves to attend to them and volunteer some of their time to help graveyard committees in making improvements. John Paul 11 Cemetery mass is on Thursday July 5th at 8.15pm and St Michael‚s Cemetery mass is on Thursday July 12th also at 8.15pm, volunteers contact Michael O Sullivan at 068 21 400. HERITAGE Council gave E15,000 towards the cost of a walk in freezer at Muckross Traditional Farm, it will be used to kill woodworm in furniture. PREACH: At noon on Sunday June 24th in Listowel Church Rev Joe Pereira will celebrate mass and preach about a charitable trust in India which caters for people who suffer from addiction an AIDS. UN World Refugee Day is on June 20th, more information on www.dioceseofkerry.ie RETREAT in Ardfert on the unfolding plan of God in our lives runs from July 1st to 7th, more information from 066 713 4276. ANNIVERSARIES: Myles and Nora Kearney, Danny Cunningham, John P and Ellen O Connor, Pat McElligott, Tom Callaghan, Con Greaney. MASS at 8pm for the following; Months Mind for David Kennelly on Wednesday 20th in Knockanure; Mary Brosnan on Thursday 21st at Knockanure; Friday 22nd Joe Lynch at Moyvane; Saturday 23rd Nora King nee Quinn; Sunday 24th at 10am in Knockanure mass for Denis Flaherty and the 11am Mass in Moyvane is Months Mind for John Carmody. ADORATION: Moyvane Sunday 4 to 5pm, Wednesday 10am to 7pm and Knockanure Tuesday 10am to 8pm. READERS: Linda Kennelly, Paul and Anthony Kiely, Bernie Walsh and Ciaran Lane. EUCHARISTIC Procession which was held at Listowel and Tralee was well attended, but was ignored by the media. MEDJUGORJE Prayers and Mass in Honour of Our Lady is held at Lyreacrompane Church on the last Wednesday of each Month. KNOCK Summer Youth Festival 26th to 29th of July, details from 01 6753 690, free bus from some areas. Last weeks notes were cut, the full version is on the Newtownsandes on line site. Jer Kennelly Mountcollins G.A.A. CLUB: The junior B football league semi-final was played in Athae on Sunday last where Mountcollins played St Senans. The local side were just about able to field a team against very strong opposition. The concession of soft goals was the main difference between the sides with St Senans finishing easy winners by 4-11 to 1-6. SCORERS for Mountcollins came from: Tim Lenihan 4pts, Timothy Walsh 1goal, and Bernard McCarthy 1pt. THE LINE out was: Diarmuid McCarthy, Bryan O’Connell, Michael Dillane, Timothy Begley, John Paul Lenihan, Bernard McCarthy, Batt Dillane, Donal Gleeson, Patrick Lenihan, Declan Curtin, Timothy Walsh, Donal Roche, Diarmuid Gleeson, Christopher Leahy, Jerry Dillane, Tim Lenihan. DEVELOPMENT DRAW: All outstanding monies for the county development draw should now be collected by the various promoters and forwarded to draw co-ordinator, Florence O’Connell. The next draw will be held on Friday week and any person interested in joining for the remaining six months should contact any club member. The subscription is just E8 per month. MEETING: The next meeting of the G.A.A. club will be held on Friday, July 6th. The club will hold a church gate collection in Mountcollins on Saturday, July 14th. MOUNTCOLLINS A.F.C.: The annual general meeting of the local soccer club will take place in the Community Centre on Saturday night week, June 30th at 8pm. All existing players and members are asked to attend and new members are most welcome. CLUB NA Nóg: Mountcollins under 14 footballers were due to play Newcastlewest in the championship last week. Having travelled to fulfil the fixture the local side were very disappointed that our opponents failed to field a team, thus conceding a walk-over. On this Thursday evening the under 10 footballers continue their fun league programme when they host Monagee in the field at the back of the Church at 6p.m. Training for all under 10, 12 and 14 players takes place to-night, Wednesday at 7pm. SCHOOL TOKENS: Mountcollins N.S. are collecting Tesco computer for school tokens which entitles the school to acquire valuable equipment for the students benefit. AS the school will shortly finish for the summer holidays these tokens should be handed in as soon as possible. The school are also collection old mobile phones which can also be exchanged for computer equipment. SCHOOL SUCCESS: Congratulations to the students of Mountcollins N.S. who have been awarded the 2007 Discover Primary Science Award by Science Excellence. The award was presented at Limerick I.T. last week where pupils Clodagh Walsh, Liam Óg Whelan and Keith Murphy accepted the award on behalf of the school. They were accompanied by teachers, Mangerite McNamara and Larry Begley. G.A.A. FIXTURES: This Thursday evening at Dromcallogher, Junior A football league semi-final, Mountcollins v Castlemahon at 7.45pm. The same two sides are due to meet in the Junior A championship on Sunday but no time or venue was available at the time of writing. Your support for both fixtures would be much appreciated. TICKETS: Tickets for next week-ends second replay between Limerick and Tipperary will be allocated on to-night, Wednesday at 9pm in the Dressing Rooms. Hopefully the team can complete the task on this occasion. The best of luck to the boys in the green in the Gaelic Grounds. Moyvane Congratulations to the local Tidy Towns Committee on winning the Open Gate North Kerry Walk Award. This is the third occasion on which they won it. The Committee previously won this award in 1999 and 2004.The walk has been continually upgraded since it was first opened in 1996, with the planting of trees and other improvements. GAA Results: Moyvane lost to St. Pats in the Junior Club Championship on Saturday last on a scoreline of Moyvane 2-3, St. Pats 1-11. Fixtures: Moyvane Seniors are away to Derrynane in the County League on Saturday 23rd June at 7:30pm. Moyvane Minors are away to Ballyduff in the first round of the NKL on Monday 28th June at 8:00pm. Munster Final: If anybody wishes to purchase tickets for the Munster Final, please contact Micheal Walsh on 087-9817883 before Friday 22nd June. Club Membership: Availability of membership to Moyvane Club will continue until Saturday, 23rd June. After this date membership will no longer be available. Players E30 and non-players E10. Coiste na nOg: U12: Moyvane are at home to Beale on Sunday 24th, time to be confirmed. Training for U12 on Thursday at 7:00pm. Ladies GAA: Training on Wednesday for U12 and u14 at 6:15pm. All players to attend. Congratulations to the Kerry U14 girls team who defeated Cork in the Munster Final on Sunday last from Moyvane Ladies Gaa. Old Saying : It was a case of running with hounds and galloping with the hares. The Moyvane Annual Charity Walk in support of the Listowel Branch of Kerry Parents and Friends takes place on Sunday 8th July at 7.00pm from the Marian Hall, Moyvane. (Usual route) Refreshments will be served after the walk. Come along and join in the walk for this very worthy cause. Sponsorship cards available from any I.C.A. member. The Moyvane I.C.A. Annual Outing takes place on Friday 20th July. This year the group will visit The Japanese Gardens and The National Stud in County Kildare. Bus leaves the Village at 7.15am. Cost 60 Euros. Moyvane/Knockanure C.C.E. : Good Luck to all taking part in the County Fleadh in Milltown next week-end, June 22nd June 24th. Masses for the coming Week : Mon. 18th 8.00pm Myles & Nora Kearney & Danny Cunningham, Tues. 19th 8.00pm John P. & Ellen O‚Connor, Wed. 20th Knockanure 8.00pm Months Mind for David Kennelly, Thurs. 21st Knockanure 8.00pm Mary Brosnan Fri. 22nd 8.00pm Joe Lynch, Sat. 23rd 8.00pm Nora King nee Quinn of Leitrim West Sun. 24th 10.00am Denis Flaherty, 11.00am Months Mind John Carmody, Ahalanna. Death : The death took place recently of Mary Hayes (nee Nolan) Cappamore Co. Limerick and late of Dromurhur Moyvane. She was in her 90‚s. She is survived by her family, relatives and friends. Sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Tidy Towns season is well on its way and a village clean up will be held this Wednesday evening at 7.30pm. We encourage all residents to take part. Newcastle West Walking for Health Workshop: Limerick Health Promotion and the Irish Heart Foundation are providing free training and information sessions. Learn how to warm up and cool down. Receive advice on posture, intensity and clothing. Discuss health benefits of regular walking. Men and women of all abilities and ages are welcome to attend. Must be over 16 years of age. Members of Street Steppin‚ are encouraged to attend. Places are limited and registration in advance is required. The Athea ŒWalking for Health‚ workshop will take place on June 19th at 8 9pm in the Athea Community Hall. The Abbeyfeale ŒWalking for Health‚ workshop will take place on June 20th at 8 9pm in the Abbeyfeale Rugby Club The Newcastle West ŒWalking for Health‚ workshop will take place on June 19th at 8 9pm in the Newcastle West Community Centre For more details or to register, contact Lily at 087 7544408 or Eileen at 087 1219210 or Grace at 069 61430 Rathea/ Irremore Fixture: Co Lge R. St Senans at home to Kilgarvan this Friday evening at 7.30pm. Please check with club officers Minor N.K.L. R1 St Senans away to Beale Tuesday June 26th at 8pm Coiste Na n Óg fixtures Fixtures: U/14 N.K.Lge. St Senans at home to Brosna on Monday June 25th at 7.30 pm U/12 Co Lge R4 St Senans at home to Ballymacelligott this Sunday June 24th at 7pm Results: Co Lge U/12 R3 St Senans 5-4, Milltown / Castlemaine 2-7 U/14 N.K.Lge. R1 St Senans 3-7, Tarbert 5-5 Lotto: June 17th there was no winner. The numbers were 2,5,11,25. E30 each to A O Connell Lixnaw, Ed O Connell Lixnaw E20 each to Pat Mc Kenna Lixnaw, Tim O Connell Bottle of Whiskey: D.D.T’s This Sunday’s Jackpot E2,000 Card game: Continues every Monday night at the Clubhouse Mount Coal at 9pm. All are Welcome. Golf Classic: St Senans are holding their second Annual Fundraising Golf Classic this Saturday June 23rd at Castleisland golf club. E200 per team of 4, Sponsor A Tee E100, Sponsor A Green E100, Sponsor A Tee and Green E150. Refreshments provided. Your Support will be greatly appreciated. Munster Football Final Kerry V Cork: Members must submit your name for tickets to Aidan 086 6099328 or Dominic 087 6596227 before Sunday 24th June Cúl Camp: The V.H.I. sponsored Cúl Camp will take place at the St Senans G.A.A grounds Mount Coal, from the 6th to10th August for children age 7 to 13yrs. Starting time 10am to 2.30pm. The cost per child is E55for the first and E45 for each participating member of the same family. Each participating member will receive a full set of playing gear. For further details and application forms please contact 086 8360388 Hurling Blitz: Crotta U/10’s will participate in an U/12 hurling blitz in Causeway this Saturday June 23rd beginning at 10.30 am. Training continues Wednesdays from 6.45 to 7.45. Some replica jerseys are still available contact Jerome on 086 3466680 or Paul 087 6823579 DROMCLOUGH N.S.: An innovative and highly successful Sports Day was held at the school last Wed. In an effort to be fully inclusive and allow for greater participation by all the pupils, it was decided this year to hold a “Sport For All Day”, where each pupil had the opportunity to take part in a large number of varying activities, from obstacle courses to aerobics, from dancing to basketball, from co-operative games to hurling, from novelty events to tug-of-war and many more besides. The pupils were delighted with their day and parents were most impressed by the variety available. The whole school site of 4.5 acres was a hive of activity and a rainbow of colour. Appreciation must be expressed to the whole staff of the school who undertook the organisation of the day: to Mr Molyneaux – the Sports Co-ordinator; To Mr. Martin Trench and Mr. Pat Brosnan for their valuable assistance all day; To Mr. Jerome O’Sullivan and Ms. Julie Stack; To Mr. Jimmy Browne who prepared the fields and to Mr. Jerry Dillon, school caretaker. Well done all! LIXNAW COMMUNITY GAMES. The County Community Games athletics finals were held at the weekend in Castleisalnd. There was a good turnout of athletes from the area over the two days. Three athletes qualified for Mosney in August they are Robert Smith in the U8 60m, David Hogan U14 800m and Pádraig Whelan in the U16 high jump the mixed relay U15 won silver medals and team members are David Hogan,Fionnuala Dillon,Dylan Roche and Catriona Dillon and in the girls U13 900m walking race Claire Hunt won a bronze medal. Well done also to all the other athletes who competed so well over the two days and thanks also to the parents who came along to support the children over the two days. Thanks to everyone who contributed to the recent church gate collection. Scartaglen SCARTAGLEN junior team are to play St.Pats in Blennerville on this Friday evening June 22nd at 8pm in the County Junior League. On Saturday evening Scartaglen Senior team are at home to St.Pats at 8pm in the Credit Union County League. LADIES U.12: Scartaglen U.12 ladies team defeated Kenmare 5-10 to 2-4 in Round 5 of the U.12 preliminary league. At the end of the first quarter it was 2-1 to 1-0 in favour of Scart. At half time it was 2-5 to 1-3 still in favour of the local girls. In the second half Scart really dominated matters and went onto to score a further 3-5 in that period of play. Scartaglen: Johanna Fleming, Noreen Breen, Eilish Callaghan(2-3), Florence Mitchell, Catherine O Connor(1-0), Lisa Browne, Marie Dineen(0-1), Denise Dunlea(1-5), Kate Murphy, Clodagh Collins, Rebecca Kerin(1-1), Mairead McCarthy, Ellen Browne. GAA MEETING: An important general meeting of Scartaglen GAA Club will be held in the clubhouse on Monday evening next June 25th at 8.30pm. This meeting is being called to discuss field development. All members are requested to attend as well as any of the general public who are interested in field development. LOTTO DRAW: Scartaglen GAA Clubs Lotto Draw will take place in Flemings Bar on Sunday evening next June 24th (7 to 9pm) when the jackpot will be E2,100. Those requested to supervise the draw are Tadhg O Connor, Fred O Connor and Bernard Cronin. E.K.MINOR LEAGUE: On Tuesday evening next June 26th Scartaglen minors are due to play Gneeveguilla in the East Kerry Minor League at Gneeveguilla at 7.30pm. SENIOR LEAGUE: Sliabh Luachra ladies play St.Pats in Castleisland pitch on Monday evening June 25th at 7.30pm. ALZHEIMERS TEA DAY: Mary Murphy wishes to thank most sincerely all those who contributed so generously to the tea day. The response was simply wonderful. The total amount E2, 530 which was handed in to The Rosary Centre in Tralee. GRADUATED: Congratulations to Kieran Crowley son of Mary and Timothy Crowley of Knockrour West who recently graduated from the veterinary college in Dublin. CASTLEISLAND RACES: The annual Castleisland Races will be staged on this Saturday and Sunday June 23rd and 24th at Powells Road and this meeting has proved to be hugely popular over the past number of years and big numbers are again expected for this months fixture. Proceeds will go to The Kerry Hospice Foundation. First race on Saturday June 23rd will be at 3pm and first race on Sunday 24th will be at 1.30pm. Two great days of sport and family fun. As part of the races weekend there will be a treasure hunt on Friday evening June 22nd commencing at the Crown Hotel at 7pm. U.12 FOOTBALL: Scartaglen and Cordal U.12s served up a mightly exciting and thrilling game of football at Scart on Sunday evening last in Round 3 (second series) of the County League. At half time it was 3-4 to 3-3 in favour of Scartaglen. At full time it was Scart that emerged victorious on a scoreline of 7-8 to 4-7. Well done to both teams for a wonderful game. Tarbert COMMUNITY I.T: Community I.T. Access will be holding Summer Camps for Children aged from five to fourteen in July and August in their Centres in Listowel, Tarbert and Ballybunion. For further information, please phone Listowel on 068-21999, Tarbert on 068 36938 or Ballybunion on 068 28888 ANNUAL COLLECTION: The North Kerry Annual Collection for the blind will take place outside the church gates next weekend at all masses. Your support for this very worthy cause will be much appreciated. SCHOOL CAKE SALE: Well done to the teachers and children of the IV and V classes of Tarbert National School whose recent cake sale in the school raised E830 for the Loreto Day School in poverty stricken Calcutta, in India. The amount raised will be of great benefit to the Loreto School which is renowned for its efforts to educate the poor of Calcutta. On behalf of the community I thank the teachers and children who instigated this generous initiative and also all who contributed to it. ATHLETICS: Well done to all the children who represented the parish at the County Finals at the weekend. Ten children made it through to semi-finals on the Sunday which was a fantastic achievement of which they should be proud. Darragh McDonnell of Dooncaha crowned the weekend for Tarbert in the U14 Long Jump with a leap of 4.22m which earned her the gold medal and the chance to once again represent her county in Mosney. The Committee would like to thank all the parents who travelled to Castleisland to support the children. The Committee also wish to thank John McGinley for coaching the participants, ably assisted by Niamh Wall and Maura McDermott and we look forward to continued success in the Community Games. TARBERT GAA: County Junior Championship Keel won this County Junior Championship tie in Keel on Saturday last in front of a good attendance and in excellent conditions. Whilst Tarbert may have been justified in questioning a number of the decisions that went against them nonetheless this winning two point margin was a fair result on the day. Tarbert simply did not perform to their own high standards missing some good scoring chances especially in the first half. Despite going four points down within five minutes, Tarbert battled well to be level at half time on the score-line of 2-2 to 8 points. With ten minutes remaining in the match Tarbert edged ahead on a score-line of 11 points to 2-4. However Keel finished the stronger side with Kieran Foley shooting over three excellent points to push them ahead at the finish of a very tense game. The Tarbert Team were: Tommy Barrett, Stevie Deenihan, Shane Enright, Darragh Lanigan, Donnacha Enright, Jonathan Wren, Eugene O‚Connell, Owen O‚Connell (0-01)John O‚Connell(0-01), Kevin Wren, Seanie Wren, Ambrose Lanigan (0-02), John Kelliher(0-3), Kieran Deenihan and Patsy O‚Connell(0-02). Subs: Mark Cullhane (0-02), for Seanie Wren. This Tarbert team has given all that has been asked of them and more this year so far and must be commended for their efforts, hard work in training and application to the task. This team and the entire panel of 26 players deserve our support for the rest of the season. Tarbert GAA Club Supporters - Tarbert‚s next match in the county league is on Saturday evening next against Na Gael in Tralee at 8pm a date for the diary GAA Lotto Next week-s lotto draw will take place in the Swanky Bar at 11 pm for a Jackpot prize of 5.100 Tickets are available from local shops during the week and cost only 2 each or 5 for three winning chances. Last weeks numbers drawn were 4,14,17, and 27 - there was no Jackpot winner. The club would like to thank all those patrons and supporters that contribute so generously to the weekly lotto draw. Facilities at Shannon Park continue to be upgraded by the Club and this facility is a real community asset - It was at its very best last Sunday for the Corpus Christi procession and celebrations. Our thanks to all who worked so hard during the past few weeks to ensure preparations for this wonderful community occasion and gathering left nothing to be desired. Coiste na nOg: The juvenile club would like to wish the very best of luck to all our local Tarbert U 14 footballers who will tog out this Wed evening with Shannon Rangers in their county semi final game against South Kerry to be played in Killarney with a 7.30pm start time. Our U12 team lost at home on Sunday evening last to a good Kenmare team on a score line of 3-10 to 2-5. They play an away game next Sunday to Rathmore. A bus will travel to the game and all team members are asked to please be at the Square at 4.45pm. Our U14 team seemed to be heading for a defeat against St Senans last Monday evening at Shanon Park when two very late goals from Paddy McDermott and Denis Gallagher saved the game for Tarbert. Well done to all the squad. Tarbert U10's have had a good victory over Glin, in Glin, last Friday evening and with the Johnny Kelly Cup games coming up soon, it looks like Tarbert are in with a good chance to retain the coveted cup this year. MATCH TICKETS: Football followers who are hoping to get tickets for the Munster Final are advised to contact John Diggins before Sunday June 24th. POETS and PLAY-WRITERS Beckett & MacGreevy (Tarbert) - The review meeting held in Kirby's Lanterns Hotel on Sunday last was well attended. The group agreed to run a Beckett and MacGreevy Festival over the October Bank Holiday weekend later this year. A further meeting will be held next Sunday June 24th at 8pm in the Kirby Lanterns Hotel This will be an open meeting and interested individuals and local organizations are very welcome to attend. It was agreed that each local interested association/club could nominate one person to the steering committee. A draft programme of events will be available for discussion at next Sunday-s meeting. TIDY TOWN: Please remember to keep the streets and estates and all paths and roads around Tarbert as tidy and litter free as possible. Thanks in anticipation. MARITIME CLUB: The Tarbert Island Maritime Club is organising a 30km Shannon Currach Row from Limerick in aid of the Kerry Parents and Friends Association, Listowel. The event will take place next Saturday June 23, 2007. As part of this fundraiser project there will be a Disco held in the Shannon Bar at 9:30pm with finger food and spot prizes forming part of the entertainment. Please support. HISTORICAL SOCIETY: Please note that there will be a meeting of Tarbert Historical and Heritage Society at the Bridewell on Saturday evening next, June 23, 2007 at 9pm. Tarbert Development Association On Friday July 6th there will be an interesting and memorable social gathering at the Cross-Of-The-Woods, Tarbert. Traditional musicians from the area will help to recreate the atmosphere of their Cross-Road-Dancing era. The fun, music, dancing and refreshments will begin on the night at 9pm. Everyone is encouraged to take an active part in what will be a great social occasion and 1930's/1940's dress is optional too for all those local lads and lassies who want to bring back a blast from the past! Glar na nGael: Glar na nGael / Conradh na Gaeilge - Lios Tuathail. Campa Samhraidh with a difference. Our second year running the course - will last for a fortnight July 2nd to July 13th tri mheaan na Gaeilge in the Family Centre Duagh. As well as usual activity on the sports field - Arts and Crafts will be taught, drÃmaÃ- beagan gaielge, ceili, Rinnce, amhranaiocht. You are advised that the Fee is 70 per child per week with a 10% discount for two children or more. Apply to 068 45333 or 068 21420 or 068 21510. Completed forms to Family Centre Duagh Lios Tuathail before 26th June. Children‚s Age Range 7 - 12 years. Brochure available in local schools SAVE OUR PLANET Live Earth, the legendary music event on the 7th of July 2007, do not miss it. For further details, contact Thomas Donovan at 068 36624. Send instant messages to your online friends http://uk.messenger.yahoo.com Templeglantine FIRST HOLY Communion: A total of 22 young boys and girls from second class in the local primary school received their First Holy communion recently. It was a beautiful ceremony and the church was packed to capacity for the occasion as family members and relatives joined the communicatants for their big day. The weather could not have been more suitable with brilliant sunshine beaming down on the congregation as they gathered in the church grounds afterwards for photographs. The following were the young people who received the sacrament on the day: Patrick Moriarty, Ethan O’Mahony, Alan Kelly, Aaron Murphy, Stephen English, Shane Cahill, Ciara Brosnan, Laura White, Niamh McCourt, Kayleigh Brosnan, Stacey Flynn, T. J. Doherty, Jamie O’Brien, Charlie Wilson, Conor Fitzgerald, William Lane, Niall Murphy, Connie Sheehan, Aoife Sweeney, Susan O’Riordan, Clodagh Leahy, Jamara Gleeson. Guímid gach rath agus beannacht orthu sa saol atá rompu. DEATH OF Bridget Mary Dore: The occurred on Saturday last, June 9th of Bridget Mary Dore (nee Collins) of Gortnagloss, Templeglantine. She died peacefully at Milford Care Centre, having been in declining health in recent times. Mary Bridget was a quiet gentle caring person and will be sadly missed. Her remains were brought from Reidy’s Funeral Home, NewcastleWest to Templeglantine Church on Monday evening and after requiem mass on Tuesday burial took place in Relig na Tríonóide. She is survived by her husband Ned, daughters Mary and Susan, sons Mike, Eddie, Jim, Brendan and Peter and other relatives. Déanaimid comhbrán leo uilig. I bhFlaitheas Dé go raibh a h-anam. DEATH OF Cathy Wright: The death occurred on Sunday last, June 10th of Cathy Wright (nee Larkin) of Farrihy, Dromcolligher and formerly of Doonakenna, Temleglantine. Cathy, who was aged 68 years had been in poor health in recent times. She was a very kind hearted person and was highly regarded by everybody. She also kept in close contact with her native parish and had a great love of Irish music. Her remains were brought to Dromcollogher church from McCarthys Funeral Home on Monday evening and after funeral mass on Tuesday burial took place in the local cemetery. She is survived by here husband Patrick, sons Thomas William and Patrick, daughters Breda Christine, Kathleen Máiréad, Patricia and Lucey, brothers James and Patrick, sisters MaryAnn, Bridget and Margaret. Ar dheis lámh Dé go raibh a hanam agus ceol na naingeal le clos ina timpeall. COMHALTAS: Now with Fleadh Cheoil Luimnigh over the main focus will be on Fleadh Cheoil na Mumhan which takes place in Newcastle West from July 17th to 22nd. A very attractive programme of events have been drawn up for the occasion. The last time the Munster Fleadh took place in Co. Limerick it was held in Abbeyfeale and that was a memorable event (1997). This year’s provincial Fleadh is being hosted jointly by Cluain Chreadial Comhaltas craobh (Cill Íde) and Newcastle West and District chamber of commerce. The Fleadh Coiste is seeking help from neighbouring branches for the Fleadh weekend and anybody from our own craobh who would be willing to help out for a day should give their names to the craobh rúnaí (069 64039). The polka and slide playing workshops which take place on Friday July 20th provide a great opportunity for young musicians of the locality. Fleadh Cheoil Chiarraí takes place in Milltown on 21-24 June opening with a concert by Ceoltáirí na Sionainne on the Thursday night. It was with great sadness the members of our craobh heard of the death of Mrs Cathy Wright on Sunday last. She and her family have been members of the craobh for a long number of years and contributed in big way to it’s development and success. Cathy was a great supporter. I measc na naomh go raibh a hanam. CHURCH GATE COLLECTION: The Templeglantine Church gate collection for the West Limerick Community Workshops came to E472.78. We wish to thank the collectors and everyone who contributed. The Abbeyfeale collection came to E1,198.81. 
