sport gaa
{ Colm Keys 
    April 26 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/grants-talks-leave-gpa-and-gaa-at-loggerheads-26267744.html }
THE GAA and their inter-county players are back on a potential collision course following the latest twist in the controversial sports grants issue. Croke Park officials and the GPA met with Sports Minister John O'Donoghue separately yesterday and both parties were totally at odds over what took place. While the GAA expressed disappointment with what it described as the Minister's "rejection" of the ?5m proposals, the GPA had a different take and described it as a "positive" development. It is understood that both parties - who had submitted a joint proposal to the Minister - will hold an urgent meeting today to discuss the Minister's stance. After yesterday's series of meetings, O'Donoghue said the Government will stick to its promise of making extra money available to the GAA, but stressed that it would not "directly fund" players because of the effect it would have on other sports. The Minister even went so far as to encourage the GAA to fund the proposals directly and said that it could be re-imbursed through the sports capital programme. In stark contrast to Croker's reaction, the GPA issued an upbeat statement on O'Donoghue's reading of the situation. "The Minister's position, that he is prepared to 'make funding available on an annual basis which will facilitate the GAA in freeing up existing monies within the Association to meet the additional costs of agreed player welfare supports in the event that an agreement is reached between the GAA and the GPA' is wholly consistent with his position on the matter thus far," said the players' union who added that this was "consistent with his position on the matter to date." Proposed O'Donoghue was clear in his statement that funding was still on but not in the direct format proposed. He said the GAA knew his position on this matter some time ago. "Responsibility for player welfare issues rests with the GAA in the same manner as similar player welfare issues in other sports must be dealt with by the responsible National Governing Body of Sport," declared the Minister. "I have indicated that I am prepared to make funding available on an annual basis. This funding can be provided either through the Sport Capital Programme in respect of prioritised infrastructural projects or through additional funding by the Irish Sports Council in respect of games development." Yet, the GAA has interpreted the latest as a flat rejection of the submission by the Minister who had invited it in the first place. "Despite the fact that the payment of grants to inter-county players was an initiative of the GPA, and was encouraged by Government representatives for a considerable period, Minister O'Donoghue is now saying that it is a matter for the GAA itself to pay these grants through some undefined funding mechanism, in addition to its increased expenditure and significant commitment to player welfare," read the official Croker statement. When contacted late last night to explain the diversity of views, GPA chief executive Dessie Farrell said that he was "surprised" by the GAA statement. According to Farrell, the players' union knew as far back as last November - when Taoiseach Bertie Ahern addressed their gala banquet - that the money would be ultimately distributed through Croker coffers. "It had to come about through certain sub-headings and the Minister has just clarified the concern we had, and we're delighted to know the GAA need to make a concerted approach on the funding required," he said. 
