sport gaa
{  
    March 24 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/scribe-with-a-great-passion-for-the-gaa-27746437.html }
Anyone who has ever been to a GAA match in West Wicklow will have shared the sidelines with Peter Keogh. Because if there's a GAA match on that side of the mountains, chances are that the Wicklow People correspondent is there. Peter has written for local papers since the early 70s after thirty years involvement with local clubs. Anyone who has ever been to a GAA match in West Wicklow will have shared the sidelines with Peter Keogh. Because if there's a GAA match on that side of the mountains, chances are that the Wicklow People correspondent is there. Peter has written for local papers since the early 70s after thirty years involvement with local clubs. Born and bred in Kiltegan, Peter grew up in an Ireland that suffered the financial consequences of two world wars and left school at an early age to earn a living. During the 1940s 'everything was rationed and scarce. Survival was the theme of that time, not sport.' Peter would keep up to speed with sporting events around the country by listening to the radio and cites Michael O'Hare's commentary as a particular favourite. 'There's never been anyone like him since. He had a way of bringing the game to life. Sometimes, I'd have to listen to the games outside someone's window before radios became plentiful,' Mr Keogh recalls. 'But you still felt that you could actually see the game, he was able to describe it so vividly. He turned more young fellas into GAA addicts that anyone else, before or since. He was marvellous.' But it was in the summer of 1947 that Peter discovered hurling. After months of scrimping and saving, Peter and his brother bought not only two bicycles, but also two tickets to the All Ireland in Croke Park. 'It was the hurling final and we knew nothing about hurling. They'd taken the football final out of Ireland to New York for the first and last time since,' the sports fan remembers. 'We also wanted to show off the bikes to the Dublin cousins. We decided to go to Croke Park and pretend that we knew something about hurling. I was a hurling addict from that day on.' During those years, GAA in County Wicklow wasn't strong but according to Peter it 'has come on to such a remarkable degree that it amazes me.' Though he says that he can't explain his passion for GAA sports, his dedication to the games is rock solid and in the peak of the season, can fit up to five games in on a single Sunday. Writing up the commentaries for Wicklow People used to see him writing into the early hours on a Monday morning, in the days before faxes and e-mails. Before the Kiltegan man wrote about the games, he was involved in organising the events if he wasn't playing in them. 'At one stage when I was very heavily involved in the GAA, making fixtures and such like, coming to the end of the year I'd think Òthank goodness, we're going to get a rest,' said Peter. 'I'd rest myself grand the first week but the second week I'd get itchy again for the action. I'd have to get up and go out to the training.' And of all the countless matches the sports writer has seen, he cites Wicklow winning the Junior Football All Ireland in 2002 as a particular favourite. 'I probably got a greater thrill out of that then I did from any of the other games for the simple reason that I was closer to the action. I was in on every kick of the ball, right from the start. I saw how the team was pulled together and selected and I felt part of it,' he enthused. 'I got a tremendous thrill out of it because it sort of come out of the blue. We weren't expecting it, nobody expected us to go anywhere.' And just as other people would play a favourite album over and over, Peter Keogh slips a recording of CKR's commentary of the game into the cassette player to relish the moment on long journeys. Most GAA supporters have an opinion on whether their feted ground, Croke Park, should be available to other sporting organisations and Peter Keogh is no exception. 'Yes, I think Croke Park must be opened up while the government is developing Lansdowne Road for rugby and soccer. There's no other logical thing to do but to open it up,' Peter rationalises. ' But it should be done by the GAA in their own way, in their own time and without any excess pressure.' When asked about the general state of GAA sport in County Wicklow, he quickly talks about the county teams. 'Everyone judges a county by its flagship team. Our flagship team, the senior football team, hasn't been going that well for quite a long time.' And after seven decades of unwavering support for GAA games, Peter Keogh concludes 'My sporting dream will always be to see Wicklow win an All Ireland in Croke Park. I can't get away from that.' 
