sport gaa
{  
    December 16 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/sport/other-sports/rule-42-motion-passed-after-heated-debate-27666809.html }
CLOUGHBAWN'S MOTION on the controversial 'Rule 42' was passed after much heated debate at the annual G.A.A. Convention in the Ferrycarrig Hotel on Monday night.The Enniscorthy District club called for Croke Park to be made available to other sporting organisations on a limited basis, with the resulting monetary gain to be used for the development of games at club level. CLOUGHBAWN'S MOTION on the controversial 'Rule 42' was passed after much heated debate at the annual G.A.A. Convention in the Ferrycarrig Hotel on Monday night. The Enniscorthy District club called for Croke Park to be made available to other sporting organisations on a limited basis, with the resulting monetary gain to be used for the development of games at club level. A number of delegates and County Board officials alike delivered passionate speeches both for and against the motion, before it was overwhelmingly carried when put to the floor from a voting strength of 171. With many counties now in favour of opening Croke Park to soccer and rugby, there is a strong case for its approval when it comes up for discussion at All-Ireland Congress next year. Denis Kennedy introduced the motion on behalf of Cloughbawn, passionately urging delegates to support it. 'Croke Park is one of the finest stadia in Europe. Over a three-year period the income from rent would reach millions, and would enable us to provide more coaching at under-age level in our clubs. The reality is that the F.A.I. and I.R.F.U. will have no problem going to Cardiff, Liverpool or Manchester to hold internationals if we don't allow their sports to be played at Croke Park. The G.A.A. will gain nothing only lose goodwill,' Kennedy said. His sentiments were echoed by fellow clubman John Jude Doyle, and Mike Reddy of Rathnure. 'The Special Olympics opening ceremony was held in Croke Park and I for one was privileged to see it. Our magnificent stadium was seen all over the world, and who owned it, they asked? We, the G.A.A. own it,' stressed Doyle, adding that the income generated would help to raise money for the grassroots of the G.A.A., the clubs. Reddy fully supported Doyle's views. 'In Croke Park, we have something to be proud of. If the F.A.I. and I.R.F.U. are prepared to pay huge amounts for its use, then we should let them. I don't agree that it would be helping to promote their games. Let us open Croke Park up and let the world see what we have,' he said. County Chairman Seán Quirke is also a well-known advocate for the motion and insisted that the financial side was not the only way Wexford would benefit from it. 'A Wexfordman twice got man-of-the-match this year in rugby internationals (referring to Gordon D'Arcy). Wouldn't it be fantastic to see one of our own wearing a green jersey in the finest stadium in the country, with 80,000 cheering him on,' the Chairman asked. 'Seventy to eighty per cent of people that support Irish rugby and soccer also support G.A.A. Why can't we give our own people the opportunity to visit Croke Park, and when they see the facilities maybe they will return more to support Wexford in hurling and football. Why are we so afraid to take on these sports? We shouldn't be as there is no sport that can match the G.A.A.,' he declared. Other speakers in favour of the motion included Alan Byrne (Clonee), Pat Hughes (Kilanerin), Frank D'Arcy (Craanford) and Joe Sheehan (Clonard). However, not everyone held the same views as a number of delegates voiced vastly conflicting opinions. Former County Board and Leinster Council Chairman Jim Berry was particularly strong in his condemnation and urged delegates to reject the motion. 'People with no interest in the G.A.A. always say we should open up Croke Park for the money. If we agree to opening it up just for this reason, we are on a slippery G.A.A. slope,' he said. 'Why should soccer and rugby become our problem? Why don't we promote our own games by sending our schools up to Croke Park to play finals, as they do in Dublin. The G.A.A. is an amateur sport, and this would only help professionalism. The hallowed turf of Croke Park would be a thing of the past,' he added. A number of delegates against the motion felt that opening Croke Park would only be giving an advantage to the sports the G.A.A. are competing against, including Oliver McGrath (Shelmaliers). He felt that the debate was irrelevant, that the G.A.A. people up in Croke Park were only interested in the money either way, and that the whole Croke Park debate is constantly driven by the media. Mickory Stafford (Davidstown-Courtnacuddy) was of the opinion that it would be a 'disaster' to let rugby and soccer be played in Croker, suggesting that the trend would eventually creep into county and club grounds. Joe O'Shea (Davidstown-Courtnacuddy) claimed that the F.A.I. are not able to handle their own money, let alone that of the G.A.A. He begged the question 'will we gain or lose any players by allowing these sports into Croke Park?' Leinster Council representative Pat Doyle (HWH-Bunclody), Ger Whitmore (St. Fintan's) and Officer for Irish Language and Culture, Tomás Ó Sé, also spoke strongly against the motion. In response to some of the comments of the individuals opposing the motion, Denis Kennedy confirmed that it only stipulated that Croke Park should be opened up on a 'limited basis', meaning that it would only coincide with the time it takes to reconstruct Lansdowne Road. He also clarified that the motion refers to Croke Park only, and that no other G.A.A. ground in the country should open up to soccer and rugby. 
