sport gaa
{  
    February 16 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/soccer/gaa-club-newsround-27548479.html }
CASTLECONNOR THE annual dinner dance takes place on Saturday, February 17th at the Castle Arms Hotel, Enniscrone. The highlight of the night will be the presentation to the Girls U-14 team of their county championship medals. The players of the year for each grade plus the club person of the year will also be announced on the night. Tickets are available from the finance committee. Club membership is now due. This year the dues are only £5. All players and supporters are asked to forward their fees as soon as possible. Training continues on Tuesday and Friday nights. Sunday training continues on the beach in Bartra at 12.00. A weekend away in Kilkenny is being organised for the end of February. Anyone interested in going please contact Colin Gordon.  EASTERN HARPS A MEETING to finalise matters relating to under-age and junior team management, outstanding from the A.G.M. were due to be held in the clubhouse on Monday night before. This is the final week for the sale of GAA lotto tickets which the club are offering at £50 each as part of our contribution to the finances of the County Board for the year ahead. There is a guaranteed minimum jackpot of £2,500 and ticket holders will be included in twenty-six fortnightly draws, starting on Friday next. Each ticket holder is allowed two sets of numbers. All sold tickets must be with our club treasurer, Sean Gallagher by this Thursday night. The club's buffet/social will be held in Teach Murray, Gurteen on Sunday, March 18th. Tickets will go on sale at the end of this month. Best wishes go to goalkeeper Peter Walsh, who was forced to miss the Sligo -v- Derry game in Celtic Park on Saturday due to a foot injury. Although Sligo played well in the first-half and should have been well in front, the overall display was disappointing. We will be hoping for better luck against Mayo on Sunday week. Best wishes to Gurteen postmistress, Mary Alice McDermott on her recent retirement. The club extends sympathy to joint vice-chairmen, Pat and Michael Henry; sister, Chris and the Byrne family, Crozon Downs, Sligo on their recent bereavement. Sympathy is also extended to the Cosgrove family, Broher and the Muldoon family, Ballymote on their bereavement last weekend.  ST. MARY'S SLIGO GAA Lotto 50/50 tickets are still on sale from all members. Those who still have tickets should have them returned to John Clifford, Tommy Carroll or Hubert Gilvarry by Thursday night. Its a great fund-raising draw for both club and county and people are urged to support this draw. With the new season fast approaching, training will be stepped up over the coming weeks. Training continues on Wednesday nights at 7.00. We had another very successful meeting in Sligo I.T. last Tuesday on the Urban Development in Sligo. It was great to see sixteen people from St. Mary's attending this meeting as it will help greatly with the development of our club. Keep up the good work. Chairman of the social committee, Sean Keavney and his committee are doing trojan work at the moment organising the club's social and other social events. The date has been set for our social, it is Sunday, March 18th. This is a very significant date as it is the 25th anniversary of St. Mary's club. Anyone wishing to help in the organising of this event should contact Sean. Last Saturday night we had a great night with the Fred Finn Band, C.C.E. in the clubhouse. It was well attended by over fifty children who provided some excellent music for over two hours. We also had fifteen adult musicians and many thanks to all who attended and to Peter and Margaret Farrell and Seamus McCormack for their excellent work in organising this event. The next one will be on March 10th in St. Mary's Clubhouse and all are welcome. Bord na nOg chairman, John Behan is busy at the moment putting managers together for our under-age teams this year. Anyone interested in helping with our teams can contact the clubhouse at 62135. Bon voyage to Michael Galvin. Michael is heading for the sun for a year with the Garda to work in Cyprus. We wish him the best of luck. Michael will be badly missed by St. Mary's.  CALRY/ST. JOSEPH'S THE monthly club meeting listed for February 12th has been deferred due to the Bord na nOg annual general meeting. The meeting will now take place on Thursday, February 15th in the meetingrooms Ballytivnan at 9.30. Training for the Intermediate team will continue on Saturday next February 17th at 4.00 at Hazelwood under the direction of Pat McDermott, Stephen Devaney and Gerry Higgins. All members of the Intermediate, Junior and Minor panels must attend. The warm-up competitions for Intermediate and Junior teams begin in early March. The club's annual dinner dance will be held in the Tower Hotel, Sligo on Saturday, February 17th with music by "New Edition". The special guest at the dance will be county footballer, Paul Durcan. Tickets are £16 and may be obtained from Geraldine Flanagan, Loretta Kearins, Tim Hynes and Brian Maguire. As the club won the county award for the AIB/GAA Club of the Year a big turnout is expected. The second of five club development meetings was held in the Institute of Technology on February 6th. A large representation from the club was present. The meetings are aimed at drawing up a plan for the future development of the club for the coming years. The club extends sympathy to the Pearse family, Colga, Calry on their recent bereavement.  OWENMORE GAELS TRAINING for the Junior team will take place (tonight) Wednesday in Kerins Riding Stables at 8.00. Anyone interested in playing football this year should make a big effort to attend. Multi-draw tickets: Sligo GAA multi-draw tickets are still available from club members and Justin Gilmartin. The draw entitles the buyer to enter twenty-six consecutive draws, each with a minimum jackpot of £2,500. The monthly meeting for February will take place on Friday week, February 23rd at 9.30 in the Teeling Centre. It will take place after the Bord na nOg annual general meeting and club members and junior players should make an effort to attend both meetings.  OWENMORE GAELS (Bord na nOg) THE AGM of Bord na nOg will take place on Friday next February 23rd at 8.00 in the Teeling Sports Centre. Any parents or club members who are willing to help in the club set-up should attend.  GEEVAGH THE annual general meeting of Geevagh GAA club was held on Saturday, February 3rd in the Vocational School. The chairman, Pat Cunnane welcomed everybody and thanked all who assisted the club during the year. During the course of his report he stated even though we did not have a successful year in the senior grade last year a number of players from our under-age teams made the step up to the senior ranks and with the junior team competing in the Foley Cup and the Junior (B) League their should be a continuation of the progress the club is making to re-build the senior team and have football available to all footballers in the parish. He thanked all our sponsors and particularly Shane and Liam Loftus of Loftus Bros. Insurance, Boyle and Carrick-on-Shannon. The chairman then paid tribute to all those honoured during the year. The secretary's report dealt with the club's activities on and off the field during the year and he also paid tribute to the many people associated with the club's activities during the year. The treasurer's report showed the club's finances in the black and he stressed the importance of sponsorship and fund-raising to keep the club in this position. He thanked all the members involved in selling Sligo GAA Lotto draw tickets and he hoped more people would become involved and he also thanked Tom Duffy and Peter Kearins who stood at the gate on match days. The officers were complimented on their reports and these reports were unanimously adopted. The following officers were elected for 2001. Patron, Dermot McAuley; President, Fr. Tom O'Connor P.P.; Chairman, Pat Cunnane; Secretary, Shay Mostyn; Asst. Secretary, Justin Noone; Treasurer, Seamus McDonagh; Assistant Treasurer and P.R.O., Dominic Conlon; Co. Board Delegate, Liam Loftus. A number of positions were left unfilled and these will be dealt with at the next club meeting. It was decided at the meeting that the subscription for club membership for the year 2001 would be £20 for adults and £5 for students. Membership can be paid to any of the club's officers. Training will take place for all Intermediate and Junior players on Saturday, February 17th at 4.00 in Geevagh sportsfield. There will be a meeting afterwards in the national school where management for both teams and team captains will be finalised. It is important all players turn up on Saturday and if any players are not able to attend they should contact Pat Tighe or Pat Cunnane. Tickets are on sale locally for the Sligo GAA lotto draw which takes place on Friday night February 16th in the Dun Maeve Hotel, Ballisodare. Sympathy is extended to the Gaffney family, Straduff and the O'Dowd family Carnaguilta and the McDonagh family, Conway's Cross on their recent bereavements.  HURLING BOARD A WELL attended meeting of the Sligo Hurling Board took place in St. Mary's GAA clubhouse last week. At present the mBunscol Indoor Hurling Competition is gathering momentum. The County Board was concerned that a number of national schools who had been provided with hurling equipment were not now evening competing in indoor competition. Generally, the meeting concluded that it was not possible for many teachers to make time for all games and thanked all teams for making the effort. The meeting asked any schools that were not using hurling equipment to return them to the Hurling Board for distribution to other schools or clubs or alternatively to buy them out for £50 – this money being used to purchase more equipment for needy schools and clubs. The Board was delighted that the hurleys, helmets and sliothars given to Summerhill College were in big demand. Thanks to John Reynolds for his work there. Banada Abbey and Tubbercurry Secondary Schools are now being targeted by county coach/organiser Liam McDonagh. The Hurling Board has now established the county that will further develop the game in the county and will be concentrating hurling equipment and coaching time in these club areas. The club indoor hurling competitions will commence in March – please note the age group in these competitions, U-9, U-11, U-13. A hurling foundation course is now being organised by Liam McDonagh, please confirm booking to Liam or Mick Burke by Friday, February 23rd. The make-up of the Hurling Board is as follows: Chairman, Tom Evans; Vice-Chairman, Pat McGuire; Secretary, Mick Burke; Treasurer, Mick Seevers; P.R.O., Stephen Whelan; Hurling Officer, Henry Cox; Connacht Council, Martin Brennan and Mick Burke; Juvenile Chairman, David McVeigh; Juvenile Secretary, Joe Keane; Juvenile P.R.O., Donie Kirby; Manager, U-16 team, Donie Kirby; Manager, U-16 team, Liam McDonagh. The senior team manager is Brian McCann; Trainer, Jimmy O'Brien; Selector, Mick Seevers. The county senior hurlers play Fermanagh away on Sunday next; Mayo away on Saturday, February 24th and Longford at home on March 4th.  GRANGE/ CLIFFONEY TRAINING for U-10 and U-12 boys and girls will commence at the pitch on Saturday at 9.30. The Park Development Committee will also meet at the pitch at 9.30 this Saturday to put up new goalposts. Our Intermediate team made the trip to Aghyaran, Co. Tyrone on Saturday last to play the home side for the Gallen Cup. Unfortunately we were well beaten by the hosts who have been back in training for a number of weeks. Nevertheless it was an enjoyable outing and thanks again to John and Mary Gallen and the Aghyaran club. Training for the Intermediate and Junior panels starts this Friday night February 16th at 7.30 sharp on the Green in Mullaghmore. From next week on the training schedule will be as follows: Sports Complex track, Wednesdays at 8.00; Mullaghmore on Fridays at 8.00. But all players please note this Friday training is at 7.30. Competitions start on March 19th for Intermediate and Junior teams. Roddy Gaynor will be in charge of training for the coming year. John Kelly has been appointed selector for the Intermediate team. Any student member of the club interested in a Gaeltacht scholarship this summer please contact club secretary, Eileen Coyne for details. Any club members interested in taking part in the Senior Scor Competition is asked to contact the secretary for details. The county finals will be held in early March. Sympathy is extended to the Mitchell family, Dunfore; Leonard family, Ballinfull and the Gilmartin family, Drumfad on their recent bereavements. Club membership is now due and may be paid to the treasurer Breege Kelly. Individual membership is £10 or family membership £15. Players in particular are reminded that they are not covered for insurance of membership is not paid. Your continued support for our weekly draw card with forty-two lines for sale at £1 is required. Cards are available in a number of business premises in the locality. The winning number each week will be the Bonus number drawn in the main Lotto draw on Saturday night. Club managers and members can contact the P.R.O. at (073) 21100 Ext. 294 or (071) 63745 to have notes included.  ST. OSNAT'S THE club has appointed Gerry Farry as the manager of our Junior team for the coming season. Gerry, originally from Garrison, has a vast knowledge of Gaelic football, gained from both his playing days and from managing under-age teams and also from his experience of having watched so many games as reporter for N.W.R. Gerry has a great interest in sport and he is also the manager of Manorhamilton Rangers F.C. Gerry took charge of the soccer club this season and they have done well in the Sligo/Leitrim League this season and the domestics Cups, beaten only once in sixteen games. We hope the qualities that Gerry has brought to his soccer team can be instilled in our junior team. With commitment and a good attitude from the players we hope it won't be too long before St. Osnat's register our first League win in Leitrim football. A very productive players' meeting was held in the Granary on Saturday evening last. Gerry Farry's appointment as manager was announced and he outlined his hopes and plans to the players for the coming year. Training for all players continues on Thursday evening at 8.00 in St. Clare's Comprehensive School. With the league due to start at the beginning of March, it is essential that all available players attend for training. If any player is unable to train on Thursday evening please contact 086 8438131. The club would like to wish a speedy recovery from injury to club players, Robert Siberry and Martin Johnston. Sympathy is extended to the Kelly family Drumdillure on the death of Joe Kelly. The dinner dance which was postponed as a mark of respect to Joe will now take place on Friday, February 23rd in the Central Hotel, Manorhamilton.  ST. FARNAN'S THE first draw for the new multi-draw lotto takes place on Friday night, February 16th. All tickets from the club have to be returned on/or before this week's Sligo County Board meeting on Thursday, February 15th. All the remaining draws from the old Lotto (Lotto 2000) will be made at this meeting. The annual general meeting of the St. Farnan's club will take place on Friday, February 16th at 8.00 in the clubhouse. All members and players have been notified of this meeting but anybody interested in the affairs of the club are welcome to attend. There has been an excellent response to the appeal for sponsors and patrons for the club history book. There is just one more week available for anyone who still wishes to be associated with the project. The Senior Scor Committee met during the week and arrangements have been made to hold a club concert on Friday, February 23rd at Dromore West Community Centre. Anyone wishing to take part in this concert should contact either Jarlath Neary or Canon Halloran or any member of the committee. We sympathise with the family and friends of the late Eddie Finnegan. Eddie was a prominent players with the old Templeboy club and he was also a member of the first St. Farnan's team.  ST. JOHN'S THE St. John's Lotto was not won last week. The jackpot is now set at £2,000 and will take place on Friday week in Harry's Bar, High Street. A large crowd is expected and there will be spot prizes on the night. Please support. A course on Club Development in the City Board area is currently being run in conjunction with Croke Park in Sligo I.T. on Tuesdays. Delegates are reminded to assemble at the reception area in the I.T. at 8.00. For further details contact Pat Corcoran on 60116. Club membership is now due. The fee is £6 per adult. The closing date is March 1st and all paid up members are entered in a draw for two All-Ireland hurling and football tickets. Training will continue this week for the senior team on Wednesday evenings at the Racecourse at 6.45. If unable to attend, contact Ray Henry on 087 6492760 or Johnny Stenson on 69002. A greater effort is needed at training and everybody is expected to be in attendance. A Table Quiz will be held on Monday night in Toff's Night Club to raise money for two club players, Trevor Scanlon, Cranmore and Cian McNamara, Green Road who were chosen to go on tour to Australia with the Connacht Colleges team. St. John's are the only team in Connacht to have two players picked in two consecutive years for the tour. Entry fee is £10 per team and will consist of four members. To purchase a table please contact Johnny Stenson on 69002 or Brian Leyden on 086 8276333. Please support. SLIGO LADIES the county team continue to train three times a week. On Tuesday and Thursday nights and on Sundays. The first league match will take place on February 25th. This game is against the Junior All-Ireland champions, Down, at a Down venue. The rest of the league programme are all home fixtures for Sligo. These games are on March 11th against Cavan; March 18th against Fermanagh and April 8th against Down. On April 1st, Sligo have a bye. If the team qualify for the National League quarter-final, they will be playing on Sunday, April 29th. In the Connacht Championship, a new format was introduced for the U-14 and Junior Championships at the recent Connacht Convention. In this year's U-14 Championship, Sligo play Leitrim on April 21st. If Sligo win they are through to the semi-final on May 16th, a defeat against Leitrim means a game on May 2nd. In the provincial junior championship, Sligo's first game will take place on July 15th against the loser of the fixture involving Mayo and Roscommon. In the U-16 Championship Sligo play Roscommon in a preliminary round game on April 27th. Victory against Roscommon and they will play Mayo on May 4th in the semi-final. In U-18 Championship Sligo face Roscommon on July 3rd.  TUBBERCURRY TRAINING on Tuesday and Thursday nights at 7.45 for all adult players. The county senior footballers along with the county senior hurlers are also in Kilcoyne Park for training sessions during. The Sligo County Lotto draw takes place on this Friday night. The club is actively promoting this draw which takes place fortnightly. Membership is available from any club member for £25. This is a critical financial period for the club with player insurance, team registration, public and property insurance needing attention and money. Best wishes for a speedy recovery to Mickey Gannon who has returned home after a long stay in hospital. At the recent club meeting sympathy was extended to the Brennan family on the death of Patrick Leonard and to the Roddy family on the death of Pat Roddy. Pat, a native of Mullinabreena parish, started his working life in Tubbercurry in the early '50's and while there played with Tubber senior football team. He showed much promise on the football field and appeared to be in line for a place on the county team. Unfortunately, he broke his leg in a league match against Keash and this together with some career moves ended his football days. From Tubbercurry Pat moved to Achill and later to England where his considerable business acumen was recognised and rewarded. His firm transferred him back to Dublin and he achieved much success in his chosen career. This success never changed the essence of the man that was Pat Roddy. He continued to be loyal to his old friends and responded to our club's many fund-raising efforts over the years. Tubbercurry GAA club offers sympathy to his wife Eileen and his children Paul and Fiona. Ar dheis De go raibh se.  ST. MICHAEL'S TRAINING the Intermediate team commences on this Wednesday evening, February 14th. Players are asked to assemble at the dressing-rooms at 8.00 sharp. The club's annual social takes place on Friday, February 23rd in Molly Fulton's. Tickets, which are priced at £10, will be on sale in McGuinness's, Ballintogher; McTiernan's, Ballygawley and Kelly's, Ballygawley. As numbers are limited tickets will be sold on a "first come first served" basis. Player of the Year and Clubperson of the Year presentations will be made at the social. Music is by "Close Encounter" and a good night is guaranteed. Membership fees are now due and players should note that insurance cover is dependent on being a paid-up member. The club lotto draw took place in Kelly's on Saturday night last. The jackpot was not won. The next draw takes place on Saturday night next in McGuinness's. The jackpot will be £2,650. Thank you for your continued support. There will be an Intermediate challenge game -v- Dromahair in Dromahair on next Saturday, February 17th at 4.00.  GEEVAGH (Bord na nOg) WE WISH to thank all who attended our annual general meeting on Wednesday, February 7th. The following officers were elected: Chairperson, John Hughes; Vice-Chairperson, Marie Conlon; Secretary, Helen Sweeney; Assistant Secretary, Catherine O'Reilly; Treasurer, Alice Gilmartin; Assistant Treasurer, Josephine O'Reilly; P.R.O., Geraldine Curneen (078) 47400) Delegates to Minor Board, Rosaleen McTiernan, Josephine Mulvaney, Marie Conlon; Hurling Officer, Joe Quinlan. The annual Race Night is on March 10th in Foley's Lounge. Please return your forms as soon as possible. Foundation course, commencing in March. Any mentor or person wishing to coach an under-age team would be advised to attend same. Contact 087 47326.  Best wishes to Geevagh girls camogie team in the semi-final on Thursday next. Well done to the boys team on reaching the final. MINOR BOARD AFFAIRS TEAM registration forms have still not been received from eight clubs, even though they are two weeks overdue. The activities committee meet this Friday evening at the Social Centre, Carraroe to plan the fixtures programme for the coming season. Those eight clubs are urgently asked to have these forms with the Minor Board Secretary, Mr. Fergal Henry, by – Thursday, February 15th (tomorrow) – in order to be in time for the Friday meeting. Otherwise their teams will be 
 NOT be participating in this season's events.  MULLINABREENA/ COOLANEY WELL DONE to all U-12, U-14 and U-16 players who turned out for the coaching session session in Nace O'Dowd Park on Sunday last. Another coaching session will take place on Sunday next at 2.30 sharp in the park. Players are reminded to wear warm clothing. Tickets for the Sligo Supporters Club Draw are still on sale. Tickets costs £50 each but can be purchased at club level for £25 including club membership and entitlement to enter in draw for All-Ireland tickets. We hope to sell as many tickets as possible within the club and pay entry fees for the coming year. All players, officials, parents of under-age players are asked to give their support. 25 Card Games continue in St. Nathy's Hall on Friday nights at 9.00. Tea will be served. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Stenson family, Muckety on the death of their uncle John who died in England recently. John was a former secretary of Mullinabreena GAA club and as a mark of respect a Mass will be celebrated for John in Achonry Church on Friday, February 23rd at 7.30. May he rest in peace.  CLOONACOOL TRAINING continues each Sunday afternoon and every Wednesday and Friday night for all the Intermediate panel over the coming weeks in preparation for the competition which starts with warm up games on March 19th with the league beginning on March 31st. The turnout to-date has been good but a number of people have been conspicuous by their absence and the management committee of Kevin Brett, Austin McTiernan and John Brennan are anxious that every single player attends training on a regular basis from now on. The Intermediate Championship starts in early October. The minor league starts in April on Friday evenings with the U-16 League on Monday evenings. Also starting in April with both of these Championships run off in August and September. The U-12 and U-14 Leagues will begin in mid-May. All team managers please take note and are also reminded that any team notes they wish to have published in the "Sligo Champion" they can do so by contacting the club's P.R.O., Tom Towey at 85711 by Saturday evening at 8.00 at the latest for publication the following week. We would like to sincerely thank all those who bought or shared in a ticket for the Sligo GAA Supporters Club fortnightly lotto draw which has its first draw of the new season on Friday night next and we hope for a number of winners in the months ahead. Congratulations to Footballer of the Year, Christine Johnston, who is being honoured for her onfield performances during last season's achievements at a gala sports function which will be held in Sligo on Friday night. Sympathy is extended to the Armstrong family, Ballyglass and to the Walsh family, Tubbercurry, also to the relations and friends of the late Paddy Dowling, Listowel, Co. Kerry who passed to his eternal reward last week. May he rest in peace. The club's next monthly meeting will be held on Friday night March 9th. Thanks to Michael Armstrong for once again putting his facilities at our disposal for training purposes.  DRUMCLIFFE/ ROSSES POINT THE following team managers have been appointed four our under-age teams. U-9, U-10, John Keavney; U-11, U-12, Michael McTighe; U-14, Paul Carr; U-16, Michael Breslin and Hugh Cannon; Minor, Eamon Bellew. Registration forms for all under-age players are being issued at present. Parents are asked to complete and return same. It is very important that all children are registered to play for the club, in order that they represent the club for the coming year. Fur further information contact Hugh Cannon or Eamon Bellew. A foundation coaching course for coaches and managers is being run by Pat Kilcoyne, Coaching and Games Promotion Officer on three consecutive Wednesday nights starting on February 28th in Sligo I.T. at 7.30. For further details contact Des Henry 087 6473556. The senior team had their first training session on Thursday night last – despite the frosty evening there was a good turnout under the watchful eyes of managers Gallagher and Ward. The team also trained on Sunday. Training continues on Tuesday and Thursday nights, commencing at 8.00 sharp and on Saturday evening at 5.00. All senior, junior and U-21 players are asked to attend. If you are unable to attend please contact Phil Gallagher (071) 63040. Details of the GAA Players Injury Scheme are now available. It is recommended that all players avail of this policy, which has improved cover from last year. Details are available from Des Henry. Club representatives continue to attend the Tuesday night sessions in the I.T., Sligo under facilitator – Luke Fitzmaurice from Ballina. There is a general consensus that the programme is very beneficial for the club. A full report will follow in due course. The club would like to welcome new members and would ask anyone interested in joining Drumcliffe/Rosses Point GAA club either as a player, coach or administrator, or at any level, male/female to contact Des Henry, Secretary 087 6473556 or Joe Davitt, Chairman 087 6003335. The club are considering entering a team for the FBD All-Ireland GAA Golf Club Challenge. All golfing members are asked to contact Des Henry to establish interest and select a panel.  ST. NATHY'S LADIES THE presentation of medals to the victorious six-in-a-row minor team and the victorious five-in-a-row senior team will take place on Saturday night next February 17th in the Knock na Shee Inn, commencing at 9.00. The medals will be presented to the players by Sligo inter-county players Angela and Padraig Doohan. As well as the presentation of medals, the Player of the Year awards will be presented with the minor and senior awards selected by the players themselves, these awards are once again sponsored by Jim Hughes, Innisfree Crystal to whom the club are extremely grateful. Well done to Sligo ladies on their performance last weekend. St. Nathy's were represented by Katriona Connolly, Michelle McGowan, Angela Doohan, Cammie Kennedy and Louise Gormley. Congratulations to Angela Doohan on receiving the Sligo I.T. sports award recently. April 9th is the date which has been arranged for the fashion show which is being organised by St. Nathy's ladies and it will be staged in "The Edge" at the Knock na Shee Inn. BUNNINADDEN THE CLUB held a very successful annual general meeting on Saturday night last. Secretary, John O'Flaherty and chairperson, Chris Marren gave detailed accounts of all the club's activities for the previous year, the highlights which were our successful draw at the start of the year then our victories on the playing fields in U-16 and Minor and the most famous victory of all bringing the Owen B. Hunt Cup to the parish for the first time in one hundred and nine years. Our great performance against Crossmolina in the Connacht Club Championship, and thanks to the great John P. Davey for his special cup of tea at half-time, also Kenneth Kearins and his players on bringing an All-Ireland U-16 Rounders title back to Bunninadden. Sympathy was extended to the families and Eastern Harps club on the tragic loss during the year of David Cryan, Ollie Shannon, Marc Hannon and Sean Flannery. Joint treasurers Brendan Gallagher and David Killoran gave a detailed account of the club's financial transactions during the year. Regrettably the senior management is leaving and we wish to thank them for all they have done in the past and  DROMAHAIR ON WEDNESDAY night last in the Blue Devon Bar, Damien and David O'Brien of Pinnacle Developments presented a set of jerseys for the U-14 team to joint team trainers, Joe Bird, Michael Loughlin and Gerry Fowley. Also present was chairman Mel. Farrell and secretary, Jim Meehan, along with two of the U-14 players, Sean Kelly and Shane Fowley. The club are very grateful to Damien and David for their kind sponsorship and would like to wish them the best of luck with their latest development, which has started in Dromahair since Monday, Abbeyvale. Cow Patty Bingo: Also on Wednesday night the club chairman Mel Farrell officially launched the "Cow Patty Bingo". Tickets for this draw have now all been distributed and if everyone sells their allocation then the draw will be a huge success. A speedy recovery is wished to Colm Torsney  TOURLESTRANE A FOUNDATION coaching course will take place in Sligo I.T. on Wednesday, February 28th, March. All under-age managers are encouraged to attend. For further information see Neil Egan. The club would like to extend get well wishes to Jim O'Hara, Tullinaglug, who is recovering in Sligo General Hospital at present. Out and about agin, is Mick Egan, Castlerock after recovering from injuries sustained in a car accident late last year. Jim and Mick are two of the team's most ardent supporters and we look forward to seeing both when the league campaign begins next month. Training for the senior team continues on Tuesday and Thursday evenings at 8.00. A large number of players were in action for the county teams at the weekend. On Saturday, Con O'Meara, Gerry McGowan, David Durkin and Eamonn O'Hara faced the tough Derry footballers, while on Sunday, Adrian Gallagher, Jerome Quinn, and Patrick Quinn lined out for the Sligo hurlers. Anthony Collins, Peter Gallagher and Enda Gallagher were among the substitutes. Congratulations to Mrs. Phil Doyle, Curry who was the lucky winner of the £1,550 Bingo Jackpot on Tuesday evening last. Also on Tuesday evening last a new Home Game was launched. Players receive a free sheet to fill out at home. There is a guaranteed £50 pay out with the possibility of £100. Extra sheets are available for £1.. Bingo continues every Tuesday night at 8.30 in Benada Abbey Hall. The minimum payout on the night is £1,080. The jackpot at present is £550. The in-house Lotto is currently at £150. Volunteers are always welcome. Please support this joint fund-raising effort between Banada Abbey Hall Committee and Tourlestrane GAA club. Deepest sympathy is extended to Gerry and Tommy Meehan, Gortermone on the death of their father, Pake, recently.  CUMANN na mBUNSCOL THE BOYS semi-final for groups 5-8 was held in the Teeling Centre, Collooney on Thursday, February 8th. Four schools were competing for a place in the finals, Enniscrone, Riverstown, Calry and Geevagh. The final scores were as follows: Calry 9, Riverstown 3; Geevagh 7, Enniscrone 1; Riverstown 6, Enniscrone 4; Calry 7, Enniscrone 1; Geevagh 6, Riverstown 5; Calry 8, Geevagh 8. Geevagh and Calry were tied on equal points at the end of normal time. Extra-time was played but with both teams matched in skill and enthusiasm the teams were still tied at the end of this period. The finalists were decided with a "golden goal" competition. Geevagh were first to score and are now through to the final. Calry were obviously disappointed but can be proud of a strong team effort and skillful play. The remaining semi-finals are to be played this week. The county finals will be played on Sunday, February 25th in the Teeling Centre, Collooney. Teachers/coaches are asked to remind participants to wear shin guards. The TSB/Cumann na mBunscol annual Table Quiz will take place on Friday, February 23rd in the Teeling Centre, Collooney. Information re same should reach schools this week. Cumann na mBunscol would like to thank teachers for the on-going support of the quiz. 
