sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee<br>Monday Focus 
    October 09 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/finally-us-gaa-muck-savages-get-the-credit-we-deserve-25960829.html }
GAA officials are not noted for crying or outward shows of emotion, but there must be a lot of them on the verge of blushing right now. Over the past few months, praise has been heaped upon the organisation from all quarters which, for a body that often prides itself on its siege mentality, must have taken some getting used to. Remember, it was just one year ago when so many forces in Irish life were ranged against the GAA because of their then failure to make Croke Park available for soccer and rugby. It was anti-Irish, it was unpatriotic, the taxpayers deserved better treatment etc, etc. It annoyed the Dublin Chamber of Commerce so much that they issued a statement against the GAA. Suddenly, Rule 42 was gone and, as some of us had predicted, the world did not end for the GAA. The Dublin Chamber of Commerce never got round to issuing a statement thanking the association for ensuring their members could continue to rip off sports fans when big matches are staged in the capital. Next, we had a great season of championship football with lots of draws - something that always brings tears of joy to the eyes of GAA officials. The Dubs had a great run which ensured that the media were happy as they basked in the glow of increased circulation. We also saw the hurling championship finish off with a flourish, after a damp-squib start, which pleased the traditionalists who believe the GAA only exists to promote hurling and should not be letting football interfere. To cap it all, last week, the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI), a body that would not be known for their interest in the GAA or the fortunes of Knocknavanna Gaels, produced a report indicating that sport in Ireland contributes about ?1.4 BILLION to Ireland's Gross National Product. The report also indicated that when it comes to sport in Ireland, be it match attendances, volunteerism or participation on or off the field, the GAA is far ahead of all other sports. As an example, 57 per cent of those who attend Irish sports events go to GAA games, with only 16 per cent going to soccer and 8 per cent to rugby matches. In essence, the ESRI report says the Irish are great for participating in and supporting sport, but the GAA far surpasses all other sports, in practically every issue dealt with by the report. This of course will not come as a surprise to hundreds of thousands of people all over this country who see the GAA in action every day. They see it moving in often strange and mysterious ways to achieve its ends but achieve them they do. They see how the GAA can energise all areas of Irish society - from large urban tracts to thinly-populated communities on the western seaboard. Areas like the parishes of Carna and Cashel in Connemara, from which the Carna-Cashel team came to contest yesterday's Galway football final against the glamourous stars from Salthill-Knocknacarra. Lots of non-GAA people have also been fully aware of how successful the organisation has been long before this ESRI report came out, but would never acknowledge it. Instead, we got the full array of derogatory comments saying the GAA was bigoted, Fianna Fail or the IRA at play, anti-soccer, narrow-minded, backward games for backward people, etc, etc. The arrival of the new-look Croke Park rocked these people back on their heels. Since many of the knockers were involved with sports which either had no national stadium or fairly decrepit ones, they found it difficult to keep pushing the old backward GAA clichés in their golf club bars. It will be interesting to observe if this report, from such a well-respected body as the ESRI, will alter the mindset of those who continue to look down on the GAA. By coincidence, another report was published recently pointing out that sports tourism has vast untapped potential in this country and stressed that Gaelic games have never been marketed properly as a tourism attraction. Other countries promote their local sports, varying from bull-fighting to sumo wrestling, but I cannot recall Bord Fáilte ever promoting Gaelic football or hurling as a means of attracting tourists to Ireland. Golf and horse-racing are widely promoted by Bord Fáilte but the two sports that are indigenous to Ireland never get a look in when our tourism body is preparing its budgets. This is typical of how a lot of Irish organisations view the GAA - a parochial organisation providing games for the natives but of no real consequence in the larger scheme of Irish life. The heads of the Ireland's media outlets, newspapers, radio and television, may also have their thought-processes awakened to the extent of the GAA's role in Irish life by this ESRI report. Maybe some of these decision-makers will ask why so many Irish newspapers give saturation coverage to British and world soccer for virtually the whole year and only for a few months in the summer does coverage of Gaelic games dominate, if at all in some cases. Just observe how often, at all times of the year, sports bulletins on RTE radio commence with the words: "And we begin with soccer." One wonders how the media decision-makers will equate their actions with the contents of the ESRI report. Of course, all the kind words being directed in the GAA's direction this year will be like water off a duck's back to their officials. Since most of them regard the GAA as their personal fiefdom, they will not pay much heed to what outside bodies think. Just as they ignore criticism, they will treat praise with equal disdain because it does not come from 'their own people' - meaning their fellow officials. But, for the 160,000 or so volunteers who keep the GAA going (ESRI figures), it will be a great source of satisfaction that, finally, an important arm of the state has recognised how massive a role the GAA plays in modern Ireland. It needed to be said and it needed to come from a body of the stature of the ESRI. eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
