sport gaa
{ Colm Keys 
    December 17 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/amateurism-is-a-thing-of-the-past-26339339.html }
Is it really 12 years since the then GAA president Jack Boothman delivered his clip on the ear to Jason Sherlock over the spiralling marketing phenomenon that the rising star of gaelic football was threatening to become? Sherlock had completed a magical first season with Dublin when he became the story of the summer. He was fearless, energetic and unpredictable, he re-vitalised a bunch of flagging footballers around him but above all he had the looks that separated him from the more conventional gaelic footballer. He appealed to youth and he struck a chord with the mass markets away from gaelic games and even sport. A Dublin press night prior to their All-Ireland final descended into chaos as queues stretched across St Vincent's in Marino to procure his autograph and meet the wunderkind. With Sam Maguire back in the capital for the first time in 12 years a Goal match in Croke Park had to be abandoned as hordes of kids took to the field in celebration. 'Jayomania' was in full flow. There was talk of a potential loss to soccer, in other conversations he was being mentioned as the GAA's first real superstar and Kevin Moran's Proactive company were reputedly giving advice. When Proactive pitched a stall in Dublin to test the waters, Sherlock was one of the few GAA names present in the Burlington Hotel on the night of the presentation. When pressed early the next year at a function in Waterford RTC on his thoughts about 'Sherlock the commodity' and his value to the GAA, Boothman was dismissive - suggesting glibly that the association would survive without him. His comments were reflective of the suspicions the GAA still harboured about potential relations with the commercial world. The development of two corporate tiers around Croke Park was helping substantially to fund the project, sponsors' logos were five years on the front of shirts and for the first time ever the championships were being sponsored, but players coining it on the back of their stardom was still an anathema and a perceived contravention of Rule 11 that governs and enshrines the amateur status. Up to then, the only endorsements permissible under GAA rules were work related so we had the uneasy sight of some of the best known hurlers and footballers of the age grabbing sheep in headlocks and extolling the virtues of Ranazole as a method of prevention against fluke and worms. Boothman's comments triggered a furore and within two years an amateur status committee report had been commissioned to deduce what were the parameters. Sherlock's star shone but briefly. He recoiled from the publicity that greeted his phenomenal first season and the gravy train predicted for him never really left station. He has never had a season like 1995 in the intervening years. These days Sherlock is an ordinary decent member of the Dublin football squad, a piano lifter rather than a piano player as the French regularly categorise their rugby players. You wonder what direction he might have taken and what Proactive would make of him in the current climate if it was 2005 and not '95 that he announced his arrival. The barriers have come down slowly in those 12 years. At the end of his presidency, just as the Gaelic Players Association were cranking up into action, Joe McDonagh's players' committee announced guideline changes whereby players could take endorsement money but would have to hand over 50pc of their earnings to a team pool. That later changed to 20pc and then disappeared completely when it became patently obvious that it was unworkable and inequitable. Fame The absence of a real international dimension will always prohibit GAA players from cashing in on their fame in a country of 5.5m people (including the North). The market is simply too small. There is, however, a small select few who have had and can in the future make small stacks of hay while the sun shines. DJ Carey had the personality, the catchy name and, of course, the skill that made him the priority guest for any launch going at the peak of his career. Carey has used an agent, Barbara Galavan, to organise some of his off the field activities but it must be said that when it came to charities and other GAA clubs the former Kilkenny star was generous with his time. Conor Ridge, a partner in Horizon Sports Management, predicted last year that a top GAA star would have the capacity to earn €100,000 in any given year. Ridge's prediction makes the recent 'grant' of between €1,400 and €2,600 seem like a pittance but how many, if any, would have the potential to crash the 100k barrier. The GAA's commercial manager Dermot Power has always maintained that Setanta O hAilpin's departure to Melbourne AFL club Carlton Blues stripped the GAA of its most marketable commodity. In the four years since Setanta became a professional Down Under, he would have earned substantially more in endorsements and other related commercial activities than he has done as a rookie on meagre wages for his first two years. When he left in October 2003 he had the hurling world in the palm of his hand, dark, handsome features, athletic, a swashbuckling style, a unique name in the game and a year of devastating impact even though Kilkenny ended as All-Ireland champions. You can imagine how the Guinness marketing team of the late 1990s might have spun all that. Cork won the next two All-Ireland titles and in his absence his older brother Sean Og stepped into the breach. Sean Og is now the most desirable GAA commodity with lucrative attachments to Spar and Adidas among others. He can command a reputed fee of between €3,000 and €5,000 for appearances, according to market sources. His commercial diary is looked after by a former member of Donal O'Grady's backroom team who also handles most of the other Cork hurlers and has spread his net wider to incorporate Kieran Donaghy as part of his 'stable.' Donaghy took last season by storm with his improvisation at full-forward for Kerry and with an outgoing, effusive personality his phone hasn't stopped ringing since. Colm Cooper is also 'in demand.' In the ongoing battle between the rival isotonic sports drinks, Cooper was Lucozade Sport's big catch as they prised him away from Club Energise's collective arrangement with the GPA. Powerade have also entered this battle in the last couple of years and have signed up Joe Canning, the young Galway starlet who has yet to play for his county's senior team but is already dipping his toes into commercial waters with an adidas ambassador title too. Adidas have a stable of up to 20 hurlers and footballers for which there is a €3,000 and upwards fee. Puma have about half that number while Nike have linked up with Cork's Diarmuid O'Sullivan and Sligo's Eamonn O'Hara. The average player can expect to gross between €1,000 and €1,500 for presence at a launch where a photocall and an obligatory few words are about as taxing as it gets. In recent years companies like Vhi, Ariel and Cantebury have all taken 'official' status with the GAA. The GPA have always been active on the commercial front from the days that six players crossed Harcourt St together and into a minor storm over amateur guidelines for a photograph that launched an ill fated deal with the Marlborough recruitment group. It was a challenge to the guidelines that was overlooked by the GAA and cleared up. Opel, Club Energise and Carphone Warehouse all have long standing deals with the GPA which offers opportunities to players, like the Club Energise TV advert set in Dublin's docklands last year and a lake in Wicklow the previous year. If you have a deal with a sportswear company, endorse an isotonic drink and get on board for five to six launches or 'company days' a year, the average top GAA player can gross over €20,000 a year. Add in the new welfare grant, win a Vodafone All Star, make the Opel players team, avail of a team holiday and drive a sponsored car and the value of all that goes beyond €35,000. It's all still small money though in a small indigenous market where only a very selective can thrive. The number of agents is small as is the number TV adverts, where the real money is. Club Energise, Lucozade Sport, Guinness and Spar that have cleverly used O hAilpin with the athlete Derval O'Rourke. The notion of pure amateurism has long since departed. The payment of grants next year is merely a further melting of the amateur polar cap as climate change continues to sweep the GAA. It's not a bottomless pit however, not near it. The real value for a GAA player still lies in permanent employment by banks and companies. Up to 100k is attainable in the current market but to make that any player would have it spread himself very thin. 
