sport gaa
{ Tom O'Riordan 
    February 08 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/tax-breaks-can-open-gaa-coffers-farrell-26057755.html }
GAA PLAYERS were the big losers from the tax incentive scheme introduced as part of the Finance Bill in the Dail yesterday. For while a wide variety of Irish sports' money earners will be able claw back a substantial amount of paid tax, the country's top GAA players have no prospect of getting a slice of Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy's cake. The new tax relief scheme is aimed at assisting sports persons resident here who have relatively short earning careers in their respective fields, and, who, under the scheme, would be entitled on retirement to claim back for 10 years of their sporting life. This is to be done by way of a 40 per cent deduction from gross qualifying receipts (before expenses) directly arising from sporting activities for each of the years concerned. The categories of sports persons to which this will apply are: Athletes, badminton players, boxers, cyclists, soccer players, golfers, jockeys, motor racing drivers, rugby players, squash players, swimmers and tennis players. The 10 year period is back-dated to start on April 6, 1990. But GAA players are left behind. Last night Dublin star Dessie Farrell, chairman of the Gaelic Players Association said the move by the Government could change the mindset of GAA officials who refuse to entertain financial reward for playing Gaelic games. "This is a system to be welcomed. Clearly there are people in Government keen to recognise the achievements of leading sports people, and willing to make life a little more comfortable by allowing them recoup part of their earnings. "I hope this will influence the GAA to change their attitude with regard to financial reward," said Farrell. However, the GAA were last night standing firm on their amateur status policy. "Our policy on financial reward is very clear. I don't expect this tax break will have any affect on the implementation of the amateur status rule," said GAA press officer Danny Lynch. "We are not in a position to discuss the merits, or otherwise, of this scheme because we were not consulted about it, or informed of the details. Nothing has changed which could influence the situation." However, Farrell is adamant the move will get officials thinking again, and perhaps get them to show a more relaxed attitude to allowing GAA players financial reward. "I don't expect the Government are drawing lines in the sand as to who is eligible, but I feel this will put extra focus on GAA players, and the difficulties they face in getting some reward for their hours of endeavour," said Farrell. "This will put more pressure on the GAA's top brass to change the way they think. "A few years ago they were saying they could never entertain such a suggestion, but more recently they said they could not afford it. I believe they can give financial reward because of the increased revenue they are going to get from extra championship matches. "The players are not out to break the bank, or anything like it. "All they want is meaningful recognition for making high profile games happen for several months of the year. It's great to see people make something from the sport to which they dedicate their best years. "This is not a pitch for GAA players to get rich, or anything like it, but I don't think we can keep our heads in the sand for ever." McCreevy's move will be of great benefit to sports persons, with the exception of those who attract the biggest crowds and generate the largest revenue of any sport in the country. 
