sport gaa
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    August 19 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/guns-and-poses-sinn-fein-show-their-colours-26415384.html }
FIANNA Fail aside, the GAA is the closest thing we have to a national movement. It is fashionable and perhaps understandable not to like the direction in which the movement moves, but you can't deny that the GAA is in many ways the life blood of rural Ireland and all that. It is certainly a formidable organisation, deriving great power from its firm foothold in every parish in FIANNA Fail aside, the GAA is the closest thing we have to a national movement. It is fashionable and perhaps understandable not to like the direction in which the movement moves, but you can't deny that the GAA is in many ways the life blood of rural Ireland and all that. It is certainly a formidable organisation, deriving great power from its firm foothold in every parish in the country, from its well-bedded roots all over the country. Which makes it all the more worrying that Sinn Fein/IRA clearly thinks it's above the GAA in the pecking order. Indeed, Sinn Fein/IRA seems to think that it is above the GAA in the pecking order of the GAA. When it comes to how to use GAA facilities, you would imagine that the GAA would have a big say in it. But it seems when it comes to the use of GAA grounds, the GAA may express an opinion but it is ultimately Sinn Fein/IRA which decides what goes. So last Sunday, despite the fact that the GAA had expressly forbidden it, Sinn Fein/IRA held a rally commemorating the hunger strikes in west Belfast's Casement Park. And yes, it was as blatant as that. The central council of the GAA said it couldn't happen but Sinn Fein/IRA ignored that completely and marched in and had the rally anyway. The GAA central council had its own good reasons for not wanting its sports ground to be used to commemorate the activities of a violent murderous organisation. Technically, the rally was a breach of GAA rule 7A, which bans party political activities in the GAA. Sinn Fein/IRA seems to have argued that this was not party political activity. This is despite the fact that the event was pretty much organised by Sinn Fein and addressed by Sinn Fein leaders. The argument was not resolved, obviously, but Sinn Fein/IRA went ahead anyway It's a worrying enough kind of development, if you think about it. Never mind the unfortunate resonances of nationalist (quasi) socialist organisations taking over football stadiums to have mass rallies. And never mind the fact that Sinn Fein professes to have always been a separate organisation from the IRA, and never mind that Sinn Fein now professes that the IRA is over. All that in itself would make you uncomfortable about Sinn Fein having mass rallies to commemorate murderers and martyrs and to glorify the IRA. Blood sacrifice is still a tetchy issue in this country, an ideal that has seen lots of Irish people kill themselves and each other in the name of fighting British oppression. What would really make you uncomfortable about this is the sense of righteous arrogance and entitlement that Sinn Fein displays. If this is them when they're on their best behaviour, you have to wonder what kind of Frankenstein we'll have on our hands in a few years if Sinn Fein continues to worm its way into mainstream politics. If Sinn Fein simply uses the GAA's grounds when it feels like it, even though the GAA expressly tells Sinn Fein not to do it, then how is Sinn Fein going to behave if we put it in government? It's just one of those things we should take note of. And of course you have to ask if all this means that Sinn Fein will be co-opting the GAA in general. Will this national movement, which is supposed to be staunchly non-party political, be used as a beachhead for Sinn Fein/IRA to introduce itself to every parish in the country, even if the GAA doesn't want them to? Is Sinn Fein/IRA going to annex the GAA against the GAA's wishes? It sounds very far out, but when you consider that the Shinners are happy to march into a GAA stadium to commemorate terrorists when the GAA has expressly forbidden them from doing so, then you have to start reconsidering what's far out and what's run-of-the-mill. Is the far out going to become the run-of-the-mill and, as long as it happens gradually enough for us not to notice it, will we continue to sleepwalk into it? And of course that's just us. Imagine if you were a unionist and you had to listen to Gerry Adams last weekend addressing a mass rally about how convicted terrorists are "role models" and how terrorists like the IRA deserve "special appreciation". You'd be a bit freaked out about what you were letting yourself in for in terms of the future of your country. On one hand you hear all this "reaching out" dialogue but when Adams and his own people get together, behind the politically expedient bullshit, you'd think this is what they're really like, people who glorify murderers. And murderers is largely what the hunger strikers are as far as unionists are concerned. Unionists have their own martyrs. The same day that Gerry Adams held his mass rally in an invaded stadium to commemorate terrorism, there was a memorial for the victims of the Omagh bombing. There weren't 25,000 people there. But then again, as we commemorate some dead people more and more fervently and with more and more pomp and ceremony, we are encouraged more and more to forget the inconvenient dead. Try and remember all this in the run up to the next election. Because they won't pull stunts like this in the run up to the next election. But this is what they'rereally like. 
