sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    April 10 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/sorry-larry-my-ten-for-are-as-good-as-your-ten-against-25989327.html }
THERE I was on Saturday night heaving a sigh of relief that the Rule 42 'debate' was in its death throes and we could all get on to more serious GAA topics like when will the powers that be make Croke Park available for games such as the upcoming National Football League semi-finals next Sunday. But the phone rang and it was Larry McGann all the way from Knocknavanna Gaels GFC. The greeting was a bit frigid, I thought, before Larry got straight to the point. "Look," says he, "you crowd in the media have been a disgrace in this Rule 42 carry-on. The likes of me, who are totally against the desecration of Croke Park by soccer and rugby players, have never got a look in with the newspapers, radio or television. "Only the crowd who want to sell out our GAA birthright seem to get the publicity and it looks like it is paying off when I see the way some of the great traditional counties, which you could always trust before, are behaving on the matter." By now I can sense when Larry and GAA people like him are not in the mood for rational debate so I made a proposal. "Larry, because you and I go back a long way, if you give me ten good reasons why Croke Park should stay closed, I will publish them, provided you allow me to give ten reasons for opening Croke Park. That's what they call balanced reporting, Larry." "I suppose it's better than nothing," says Larry and off he went. 1 According to the Official Guide the first aim of the GAA has always been to strengthen the National Identity in a 32-county Ireland. Surely allowing a 26-county Ireland soccer team play in Croke Park is totally contrary to that aim. 2 If the GAA lets the Soccer and Rugby people play in Croke Park, it's the same as handing them several millions extra per year and that will give them even more resources to promote these games at the expense of Football and Hurling. Do you know that in our local secondary school that was always a GAA stronghold, the IRFU pay a coach to come in and coach a rugby team. 3 The GAA doesn't need the money that renting out the ground would bring in. We have built Croke Park with our own resources and we will survive without Rugby or Soccer money. 4 They say that neither them Soccer or Rugby people have even asked for Croke Park. Wouldn't the GAA look fairly stupid if they change Rule 42 and then nobody asks to use it? 5 I saw where some lassie from the Dublin Chamber of Commerce was giving out that the GAA might be the cause of millions being lost to Dublin business people if Soccer and Rugby matches have to go to the UK. The Chamber has some neck when I think of the way THEIR members have been fleecing GAA followers for decades when they visit Dublin for big matches. 6 The IRFU and the FAI had the chance to join with the GAA and the government about 15 years ago to build a new National Stadium but they chickened out, while the GAA was for it. Why should the GAA have to pick up the pieces for them now? 7 You know that I'm not a fanatical nationalist, but I am a proud Irishman. To me Croke Park has always been a shrine to nationalism like Knock is for Catholics. An uncle of my own was there on November 21 in 1920 when the Black and Tans fired on players and spectators killing Tipperary player Michael Hogan and several spectators. Croke Park is no ordinary sports ground for Irish people like me. 8 MARK my words, if Soccer and Rugby are played in Croke Park, it's only a matter of time til other GAA grounds will be taken over as well. Here in the Knocknavanna Gaels club, half the players play soccer with Knocknavanna Celtic and they have often joked about playing matches in Páirc Knocknavanna. But if Rule 42 goes, I can see big trouble in a few years time in this parish if the Soccer lads have a big match and ask for the GAA grounds. 9 There's no floodlights in Croke Park, so how are they going to play Soccer games there in winter time? 10 Like GAA pitches all over Ireland, Croke Park was built by the blood, sweat and tears of true-blue GAA people like myself. If it is handed over to Soccer and Rugby now, people like me will feel we have been betrayed by the organisation we have given our lives to. "There's a lot more I could say about this," said Larry, "but I know some of you crowd in the paper would probably cut it out or change it so I will leave it at that. I suppose you might as well give your ten reasons even though I'm sure there will be nothing new in it," said he as he hung up. Right Larry, here we go. 1 1 Croke Park has cost over ?260million and is the GAA's prize asset. Good business people always maximise their assets and for that reason the GAA should take the ?5-10m per annum available from renting out the stadium for a few years. 2 The GAA wouldn't just be obliging Soccer and Rugby people by opening Croke Park. A large section of the support for Irish international teams are also GAA followers who would love the chance of showing off Croke Park to other sports followers. 3 Having Soccer and Rugby internationals in Croke Park would drive home the fact that the GAA is the strongest and best run sports body in Ireland - a far cry from the way GAA people were often taunted by other sports in times past. 4 Croke Park has staged Pony racing, Professional Boxing, Athletics, Shinty, American football, Australian Rules, Special Olympics, pageants and pop concerts. So why not Soccer and Rugby played by Irishmen? 5 Serving the national interest has always been important to the GAA. By helping our two national sports bodies and their followers in their hour of need, the GAA would be behaving as a good neighbour. 6 Rugby and Soccer facilities have been made available regularly to GAA teams, particularly abroad. Sligo, Leitrim and Longford county teams have trained at Longford Rugby club for instance. This is a chance to return the favour. 7 The implication that somehow people who play GAA games are better Irish people than those who play Soccer or Rugby is insulting in these times. The GAA is strong enough not to have to use such 'props' nowadays. 8 While helping the government is rarely a priority with Irish people, the GAA is a huge beneficiary of government grants for its day-to-day activities, such as the ?1m recently given to Dublin GAA and saving the government from the embarrassment of international fixtures being played abroad is hardly asking too much of the GAA just now. 9 The PR disaster for the GAA that would follow a 'No' vote can easily be avoided with no loss of principle by agreeing to allow the Central Council make the decision as to who is allowed rent Croke Park. 
