sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    January 11 2015 10:56 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/club-players-forum-has-potential-to-stir-things-up-30899496.html }
Nobody who understands grassroots GAA should be in any way surprised that a new internet-based movement called the Club Players Forum has come into being.  The stated aims of the Forum are as follows: "Striving to make Community, Clubs and Club Players central to the GAA again. A leaderless movement built on Amateurism, Volunteerism, family and respect." Noble aspirations no doubt that will surely strike a chord with a few hundred thousand club players around the country. I must state at the outset that I had no knowledge whatsoever of this development and have no idea of the names of the people involved. But anything that leads to a better life in football and hurling terms for GAA club players can only be regarded as positive. Obviously attempting to organise club players is a mammoth task because of the vast numbers involved compared to the GPA with probably just a few thousand members. Leaderless One thing also is certain: the GAA will not be putting €1.5 million at the disposal on any future club organsation as happens with the GPA. If the Club Players Forum, or CPA as they may be called, is claiming to be leaderless they will stand out as unique in the GAA. Granted, some of us may have referred to various sections of the GAA as leaderless from time to time but if that was the case it was always a temporary situation and even the GAA itself started organising leadership courses for clubs all over the country over 30 years ago to good effect. Club Forum members will have a particular problem trying to set up a national structure, if that is their aim, despite all the well-known problems that clubs have. Poor fixture-making is top of the list of course in the majority of counties and undoubtedly this is what has brought about this latest decision. They say they have about 1,500 people involved with them by internet but I am sure they would expect to get many times that figure to justify having a "cause" and only time will tell on that one. But even a small gesture of annoyance or anger at what is happening to club players is worthy of consideration so in that context the Club Players Forum is important as it is the first time that a large group of such players have expressed their views in unison, even if it is only anonymously at this stage. Public opinion is very important in any debate in modern society so by airing their views this latest body will be able to gauge what the general GAA public think about the conditions club players have been operating under in recent years. Are they concerned about these players or are they happy enough about how club competitions are run at the moment? I expect initial reaction to this new development will be negative from all the bodies involved in positions of power in the GAA such as Croke Park, Provincial Councils, County Boards. If the Players Forum develops as time goes by it will be interesting to observe the reaction from the GPA as, of course, they always are keen to point out that their members are also all club players. I imagine that since this new organisation is internet-based, it is aimed at the grassroots GAA membership rather than the leading officers and the aim will be to influence public opinion. Several other non-sport organisations have been relatively successful in recent years in achieving this objective as a means of highlighting their situation and on the face of it GAA club players with the huge numbers involved should be in a strong position in that regard. Even though the GAA throughout its history would never have been regarded as a radical organisation, as in a political sense, some major changes have taken place over the years brought about by rank and file members of the GAA as opposed to dominant officers. For example, when the most dramatic change in GAA history, the abolition of Rule 27, more infamously known as The Ban that cut the GAA off from involvement in any capacity in soccer, rugby or cricket for over 60 years, was eventually done away with in 1971, the decision was made in opposition to practically every GAA leader at county, provincial and national level including GAA presidents. It was a motion from the Dunboyne club in Meath, which requested that every GAA club in Ireland should call a special meeting and have their members decide on Rule 27, that led to the Rule being ended with 30 counties voting in favour of abolition. GAA leaders were shocked but were powerless to alter what was the very definition of democracy in the GAA. It will be interesting to observe the reaction in the coming year to the emergence of the Club Players Forum if it progresses because there is actually enormous work being done behind the scenes on Croke Park committees attempting to grapple with the massive problems of the GAA's crazy fixture structure for which the word 'nightmare' is the best description. Maybe the power of the internet can help to expedite the fixtures problem in some way.   GAA followers have a great affection and admiration for the best players from less successful counties who give their all throughout long careers but never win anything of substance. John Galvin of Limerick who left the scene last week, epitomises these sort of players. For over 15 years he was one of the greatest midfielders of his generation while playing with Limerick. On five occasions he had the chance of playing in a Munster senior final and was very unfortunate to lose one by four points after a replay with Kerry. On his retirement last week from inter-county football, he said: "I have always been the kind of player who commits himself one hundred per cent." What better tribute can a great player ask for than that? Indo Sport 
