sport gaa
{  
    March 11 2013 04:40 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/abbeydorney-all-the-news-29112945.html }
Ballyheigue overcame a great comeback by Abbeydorney in Abbeydorney on Saturday last.  The Black and Amber were down 4 points at half time due to the accuracy of Shane Dunne from frees and 11 wides by the home team. They settled down in the second half and led Ballyheigue with 3 minutes to go but a super point from Thomas Casey from a poor clearance from the Abbeydorney defence won the points for Ballyheigue.Best for Abbeydorney was Jason Fealy,Aidan Healy, David Doyle, Stephen O Connor and PJ Keane in defence with Kieran Dineen Brian Donovan and Daragh O Connell in attack.Shane Dunne, Ronan Kenny,Jason Griffin and Thomas Casey were excellent for the Seasiders. Credit to both teams and referee Michael Hennessy for affording the spectators a wonderful free flowing game to watch. Six Month Draw Results: First Prize Tony Donovan,Second Thomas Hannafin,Third Susan Dillane Fourth Nicola Treanor. Abbeydorney /Crotta Minors play Ballyheigue in ballyheigue on sat next march 9th at 4.00pm Gaa Club 6 Monthly Draw Results 3rd March 1st €1000. Tony Donovan Abbeydorney. 2nd €250. Tomas Hannifin Boheroe 3rd €150. Susan Dillane Abbeydorney. 4th €100. Niocla Treanor Listelick Tralee. Thank You For Your Continued Support Abbeydorney Juvenile registration for 2013 will take place on Friday 15th March in clubhouse from 6-8 pm. We welcome all Juvenile members for the new season. New members are very welcome. Lee Strand Scor na bPaisti: The County Semi Finals of the Lee Strand Scor na bPaisti will take place at two different venues over this weekend On Saturday March 9th at 2pm, St. Michaels Foilmore Community Centre will host the first semi final which will be for the south of the county with the following Districts Boards taking part - East Kerry, South Kerry, Mid Kerry and Kenmare District. Suzanne Ní Laoighre will be Bean a Tí. Then on Sunday March 1Oth commencing at 3pm it's on to the Abbeydorney Community Centre where the remaining semi final which will take. Five District Boards are involved and the running order on this occasion is - North Kerry Football, North Kerry Hurling, Castleisland District, West Kerry and Tralee/St. Brendan's. Brenda Dowling, Abbeydorney, will be Bean a Tí for the event. Two from each category at both semi finals will be selected to go through to the county finals which will take place at the Tintean Theatre, Ballybunion on Sunday April 7th. St Patrick's Day: We will have a meeting on Thursday next 7th March at 9pm in Abbeydorney Community hall anyone that wants to help out on the day please come along ANNASCAUL SENIORS: We lost out to Lispole over the weekend in our final West Kerry league game on a scoreline of 1-20 to 2-9. We started well, with Jonathon Deane finding the net to give us an early lead. Winning the breaking ball in the middle, we led by four points at the quarter way mark. Unfortunately, Lispole upped their work rate, cutting the supply of ball to our main scorers, Aidan Crean and Jonathon Deane. Despite David Clifford and Ger Farrelly's best defending, we were down at half time by six points. The second half provided little respite for us, as Lispole found the net within minutes to give us a mountain to climb. Despite Emmet and Genie's efforts, we never got close enough to threaten Lispole after that. Best for us were Kenneth Quirke, Emmet Kennedy, Genie Farrell and Jonathon Deane. TEAM: Conor Guilfoyle, Paddy O Shea, Eamonn Hickson, David Clifford, Colm Barry, Daniel O Connell, Ger Farrelly, Emmet Kennedy, James Scanlon, Kenneth Quirke, Genie Farrell, Shane Foley, Aidan Crean, Jonathon Deane, Declan Lindsey. Subs: John Bowler, Jaime Quirke, Shane Scanlon. ARDFERT ST. BRENDAN'S HURLING CLUB: UNDERAGE TRAINING for U-6 and U-8 hurlers (boys and girls) continues at Ardfert Community Centre. U-6's train from 10.30am to 11.15 and U-8's from 11.15 to 12 o clock. Registration for U-6's is 10 euro, U-8's ?15 and for all other underage groups it is ?25. We will also ask each player to bring 2 euro towards the cost of hall rental every Sat. morning please, and thanks to all those who bring it on Sat. mornings. Please ensure that players are registered and a parent/guardian mobile contact number available to receive text messages re blitz, training etc. & in case of emergency. RESULTS & FIXTURES: St. Brendan's minors defeated Ballyheigue in the NK League Rd.1 on Sun. 0-16 to 0-7. The game was played in Ardfert and it saw Eric Leen, Fionan Mackessy and Aaron Thompson making their minor team debut. We wish them and the minors well in the coming season. NK SENIOR LEAGUE: The seniors were due to play Kilmoyley in Rd. 1 of the Lg. last Sunday, but failed to field a team on the day. A combination of our hurlers on the Kerry team being ineligible and a spate of injuries left us with only 14 players, so we hope for better days ahead. The next game is v Causeway in two weeks time. On 16th/17th March the U-14's are due to begin their 2013 hurling year, and the minors are also due to play Rd. 2 of the NK league that weekend v Abbeydorney/Crotta. The seniors have Rd. 2 of the Lg. v Causeway also that weekend and we hope for a better turnout. JUVENILE SECRETARY: Still sending out a call for some parent/s of juv. players to get involved as Juv. secretary. Contact Gerard Hussey at 0872895264 if you can be of help. BAG PACKING for the juvenile club will go ahead on Friday & Sat. 15th and 16th March in Dunnes Stores, NCR, Tralee by kind permission. We hope for good support from parents of our juvenile hurlers to make a success of the hours we are given, and Gerard Hussey can be contacted with your hours of choice. GOLF CLASSIC supporting St. Brendan's HC will go ahead on Easter Weekend, Friday, Sat, Sun, and Easter Monday,29/30/31 March and April 1st at Ardfert Golf Club, kindly sponsored by Eddie Morrisson of Ardfert Pharmacy. We look forward to a bit of good weather for the few days. Prizes worth over €500 are on offer, with a team of 4 costing €80. Time sheet open, and Ardfert Golf Centre can be contacted at 066 7134744 to reserve a time. We are also looking for sponsors of a tee box for €30 or a green for €30 or both for €50. CUL CAMPs: Dates for the diary are 15 to 19th July for hurling camp in Ardfert. SYMPATHY: We extend our sympathy to Jeremiah & Margaret Davis, Tubridmore and all the Davis family on the recent death of Jeremiah's father Michael, grandfather to hurlers Michael and John Davis. LOTTO: The St. Brendan's Hurling Club / Ardfert G.A.A. lotto Jackpot last week was €7,600. The numbers drawn were 7, 13, 16, 28. There was no winner. The draw took place in the Abbey Tavern. The lucky dip winners were: €75 David Wallace, Cloonglebe, €40 Eileen Deady, Ardfert Village, €25 Kevin Lawlor, Killeacle. The next lotto draw was due to take place on Tuesday 5 March in Kirby's Bar when the Jackpot will be €7,700. Thanks for supporting our local lotto. Míle buíochas. FOOTBALL CLUB - The seniors played Churchill away on saturday last in the Brendans Board competition. This finished level at 2.07 each. Ardfert lined out as follows. David Wallace, Denis Moriarty, Rory Horgan, Michael Nolan, Eoin McCarthy, Eamonn Corridon, Mike Moloney, John Dowling, Jerry Wallace, Georgie Flaherty, Alan Kelly, Niall Clifford, Shane Griffin, Stephen Wallace, Kieran Fitzgerald. Subs: David Griffin and Christopher Wallace. They are due to play St. Pats this weekend. MINORS: are due to play Moyvane/Tarbert in Ardfert this saturday at 4pm. This is round two of the County League Div 3A. MERCHANDISE: currently on sale in Elverys Sportshop Tralee. DEFIBILATOR: training starts this friday night. Please contact Maurice Harmon on 0876564707 for more details. ASDEE NORTH KERRY LEAGUE Asdee 1-6 Ballydonoghue 2-10. Without ever reaching top gear Ballydonoghue continued their unbeaten North Kerry League Division 2 run when they overcame Asdee at Walsh Park on Sunday last in a fairly well contest encounter. NORTH KERRY FINALS OF SENIOR SCOR: Another great night of entertainment was enjoyed by a large attendance at the Community Centre Asdee on Saturday night last where the North Kerry Finals of Senior Scor took place. Ten Clubs took part, Listowel Emmets, Asdee, Duagh, Ballydonoghue, Beale, Tarbert, St. Senans, Clounmacon, Moyvane and Ballylongford with the standard of competition of a very high quality. Then when the Adjudicators made their final decision it proved to be a successful night for the local Club going through in the Novelty Act. Both the Question Time team of Maria Alice Walsh, Brian Coughlan and Eoin Kennedy and in Recitation Donal Dalton also performed well but failed to get the Adjudicators nod. A special thanks to Club Scor Officer Kathleen Carmody who worked tirelessly behind the scenes to have the Club represented at the Finals. The competition was once again kindly sponsored by Tom O Sullivan, Agri Business, Kilcolman, Asdee. The Novelty Group will now go forward to the County Finals will be staged in the Fossa Community Centre, Killarney on Friday March 15th commencing at 7 30pm. Asdee: Nora Stack, Anna Maria Tydings, Gerdie O Carroll, Tomas Walsh, Kathleen Carmody, Sinead Walsh. MEETING There will be a meeting of the St. Marys, Asdee G A A Club on this Thursday night in the Community Centre. Starting time will be 8 30pm.All Club Members are requested to be in attendance. FUNDRAISING Tickets are now on sale from any Club Member for the Fundraising Vidio Race Night which is arranged for the Store Bar on Saturday March 30th. Guaranteed a most enjoyable night so come along and support.Your generosity is once again required to make this a successful event. MEMBERSHIP. A reminder that membership of the Club is now open so anybody who would like to take out membership can do so by contacting Club Registrar, Patsy Coughlan . Adults E20 and Under Age E10. It is important to note that Membership of the Club will close on Saturday March 30th and this will be strictly adhered to. Only fully paid up members will be in line for any match tickets that the Club may aquire. FIXTURES. The following are some of the Fixtures for the early part of 2013; All games 2 30pm. NORTH KERRY LEAGUE. , Division 2. Sunday March 10th, Bye, Sunday March 17thaway to Knocknagoshel. Top two teams to play final with promotion to Division 1 for the winner. COUNTY NOVICE. Cromane will provide the opposition for our Senior footballers at JackWalsh Park on Sunday March 31st in Round 1 of the County Novice Championship. COUNTY LEAGUE. Asdee will be competing in Division 5 of the Credit Union County League and their opening game here will be an away game against the recently crowned North Kerry Senior Football Champions, Duagh on Sunday March 23rd. BALLYDONOGHUE CLUB LOTTO: Last week's Club Lotto Draw took place at Cantillon's. The numbers drawn were 2,9,12,14. There was no winner. The winners of the lucky dips were: Joe Rice - Asdee, Kathleen Brady - Knockenagh, Phil Boyle c/o Mary O Neill, Jim Sheehy c/o Mona,William Kissane - Kilgarvan. The winners of the three free draws were; Mary Henchy - Lyre, Pat Savage - Pallas, Pat Griffin - Coolkeragh.This week's draw, for a jackpot of 1,800 euro will take place in The Thatch on Friday night. FIXTURES: NKL Div 2 Rd 4 Ballydonoghue are away to Ballyduff on Sunday March 10th at 2.30pm. Co.Minor Leagur Div 4 Rd 2 Beaufort (1-4) Ballydonoghue (4-8). Team; Cian O'Mahony, Jack O'Connor, Jason Foley, Kieran O'Connell, David Foley, Jack Gogarty, Conor Kennelly, Stephen Foley, Padraig Lyons, Brian O Seanachain, Killan O'Carroll, Kieran Lynch, Jack Foley, David O'Neill, Darragh Sheehy. Subs: Darragh O'Shea, Brian Mason, Kevin O'Donnell, Michael Dee, William Kissane, Micheal Foley. Our minors were never in any danger in this game with Beaufort only managing a single point in the second half. N.K.League Div 2 Rd 3. Asdee (1-6) Ballydonoghue (2-10). Even though we looked in control for long periods of this game we were never really able to shake off a determined Asdee side. We led at half time (2-5) to (1-1) playing with the aid of a stiff breeze.. While most players can be happy with their performance Jim Cremins was Ballydonoghue's outstanding player on the day while Bill Joy was another to show well. Team: Shane Thornton, Billy Joy, John O'Mahony, John Enright, Dan Riordan, Darren Gogarty, Patrick Kennelly, Barry Shanahan, Martin O'Mahony (0-2), Eric O'Connor, Diarmuid Behan, Thomas Kennelly (0-1), Robert McGregor (1-0), Jim Cremins (0-2), Paul Kennelly (1-5-3f). Subs: Darren O'Connor, Sean Lyons (played), Eddie Sheehy (played), John Ross Dowling (played). NORTH KERRY FINALS OF SENIOR SCOR: Another great night of entertainment was enjoyed by a large attendance at the Community Centre Asdee on Saturday night last where the Tom O Sullivan, Agri Business, Kilcolman, Asdee Sponsored North Kerry Finals of Senior Scor took place. Ballydonoghue were worthy Instrumental Music victors. The winners will now go forward to the County Finals they will be staged in the Fossa Community Centre, Killarney on Friday March 15th commencing at 7 30pm. CEOL UIRLISE. Ballydonoghue Asling McCarthy, Padraig Enright, Thomas Enright, John Nolan. BALLYDUFF Club Membership is now available as follows; Adults & Players €40.00; Family membership €50.00 includes 2 adults and children under 18; Juvenile Membership €20.00. All those who have paid Membership before the March 31st will receive five free Ballyduff GAA Lotto Tickets. SCÓR NA BPÁISTÍ: Congratulations to the pupils from Ballyduff C.N.S. who represented Ballyduff G.A.A. Club at the North Kerry Hurling Board Finals of Scór Na bPáistí in Causeway. Figure Dancing - Conor Murphy, Anthony Kavanagh, Thomas O'Connor, Kieran O'Carroll, Tara Kirby, Rebecca Falvey, Davina O'Connor and Sophie Cronin; Solo Singing - Jasmine Griffin; Instrumental Music - Pádraig Walsh, Niamh Walsh, Maura Ross, Méabh Dalton and Aoife O'Connor; Story Telling - Seán Lucid; Ballad Group - Maura Ross, Jasmine Griffin, Sophie Flynn, Kate Kearney and Kerrie Ross; Quiz - Pádraig Walsh, Liam Dowling, Eric Kennelly and Katelyn O' Connor. Best of Luck to the Ballad Group and the Quiz team who go on to compete in the County Semi Final in Abbeydorney on Sunday. Thanks to all who helped. COISTE NA NÓG: Ballyduff Coiste na nÓg is holding a Fundraising Quiz in Connor's Bar Ballyduff on Friday March 22nd. Money raised goes to purchase goal posts and other equipment. All families are asked to support this fundraiser. Donations of items for the raffle will be most welcome. Noel Browne is currently looking at designs for Club tops. It is hoped that Club tops will be available for all to buy by the end of the season. Under 14 hurling training continues at the ball wall in Causeway on Monday at 6.30pm and under 12 hurling training in the sportsfield on Tuesday at 6.00pm BALLYHEIGUE GAA LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Saturday night's GAA Lotto: 10-11-13-16. The Jackpot of €2,650 was not won. Next week's Jackpot will be €2,700. The two €50 winners were: Pa Casey, Ballylongane and Pat Joe Godley/Brian Crowe, The Village. The €25 winner was Kitty Falvey, Doon. HURLING SENIORS: The Ballyheigue Senior hurlers had a one point victory over Abbeydorney in the North Kerry League at Abbeydorney on Saturday evening. Full time score Ballyheigue 0-16 and Abbeydorney 1-12. Team: Richard O'Mahony, Danny Casey, Sean Colgan, Damian Casey, Kevin Reidy, Mikey O'Halloran, Jason Griffin, Diarmuid Walsh, Jason Casey, Ronan Kenny, Joe O'Halloran, Shaun O'Mahony, Shane Dunne, Kevin O'Mahony, Tomas Casey; Subs. Used: Patrick Flahive and Tommy O'Connor. MINOR HURLING: A young Ballyheigue Minor Team gave a good display at Ardfert on Sunday morning in the North Kerry League . Final score Ballyheigue 0-9 and St. Brendan's 0-14. Team: Michael Leane, Owen Lucid, Brendan Dunne, Michael Reidy, Sean Patterson, Brian Riordan, Arran Casey, Philip Lucid, Shaun O'Mahony, Jimmy Hehir, Kieran O'Halloran, Adrian Flahive, John Corridan, Mikie O'Connor, Conor Galway. Sub. Used: Conor Healy. GAA SOCIAL: Ballyheigue GAA held their very successful Social at the White Sands Hotel on last Saturday night. Special invited guests were Gerard McCarthy, County Hurling Officer, and Fr. Tom Leane P.P. Medals were presented to the Intermediate team. Awards were presented to the following: Jerry Crean, "Senior Player of the year". Tomas Casey and Philip Lucid who were members of the Kerry Minor All-Ireland 'B' winning team. Joint Awards of "Club Man of the Year" went to John and Kieran Casey. Paudie Carroll received an Award for his winning of a Co. Minor Championship Medal with St. Brendan's Football team. Mikey O'Halloran received a special Award for his fine achievement in winning the Under-21 All-Ireland Ploughing recently. John Brassil did a great job a M.C. Many thanks to Jimmy Browne and his staff for the beautiful meal served. KERRY MINORS: The Kerry Minor hurlers were defeated by four points by Carlow in the Leinster League at Tipperary Town on Saturday. Ballyheigue players on the Kerry team were Brendan Dunne and Philip Lucid. FIXTURE: North Kerry Minor league – Ballyheigue v Abbeydorney/Crotta at John Joe O'Sullivan Park on Sunday morning at 11.30am. BALLYLONGFORD BALLYLONGFORD/ASDEE/BEALE LADIES: Results U12's travelled to Castlegregory on Sunday 3rd March to take on the home team. Both side started out strong but Beale took the lead in the second half and Castlegregory werent able to close the gap. All players gave a good performance especially for the first match of the season. FT Score Beale 8-9 Castlegregory 2-0. Team Lined Out- Tara Downey, Rachel Hanrahan, Rebecca O Sullivan, Caoimhe Scanlon, Edel Joy, Leona Connaughton, Lara Rohan-Kenny, Donna O Rourke, Rebecca O Sullivan, Sarah Gleasure, Kerri-Ann Williams Kissane, Donna Buckley, Millie Burns, Chloe Ellabell, Saoirse Keane. Subs- Mary Ellen O Connor, Rebecca Barry, Orla Mahoney, Christina Falvey Sheahan, Maggie O Neill, Clodagh Foley. Training Sessions U12's training session will take place on Wednesday 6th March from 5:00-6:00pm in Stack Park, Ballybunion.U14's & U16's first training session of the season will take place on Thursday 7th March from 7:00-8:00pm in Stack Park, Ballybunion. Fixtures U12's take on Duagh at Stack Park Ballybunion on Sunday 10th March. Time TBC SCOR NA BPAISTI: Apologies for wrong information that appeared in last week's notes in connection with Ballylongford not having any success at Scor na bPaisti level in North Kerry. This was inaccurate as the School children from Lenamore representing the Club actually won the Novelty act section having come up against very strong opposition from St Senans. The information in last week's notes was a mix up with our fellow parishioners Asdee and again apologies to all concerned. We wish the Novelty Act Group the very best of success as they go on to represent the Ballylongford Club and North Kerry in the County Semi Finals which will be held on Sunday next 10th March in Abbeydorney Community Centre at 3pm the group would appreciate all the support they can get and anybody that can travel to Abbeydorney to lend a bit of moral support would be very appreciated. BALLYMACELLIGOTT LOTTO: The Ballymacelligott Gaa lotto draw was held on Monday 25th Feb 2013. Numbers drawn were 1, 7, 12, 28. There was no jackpot winner. Lucky dip winners: 1. Joan Wharton, Ballyseedy 2. Sean Griffin, c/o Tom Leen 3. Ross Mansfield, c/o Tom Leen 4. Kathleen Brosnan, Arabella (online winner) 5. Joan O Mahoney c/o Tom Leen Seller Prize: Mannix PO Next weeks draw will take place on Monday 4th March for a jackpot 6000.00 SENIOR: Ballymac 1-07 John Mitchels 0-07 The senior team had a very good victory over John Mitchels on Sunday last in the town league. CLOTHING RECYCLE DRIVE: Will take place on Monday 18th March between 12.30 and 2.30pm at the main field. Please donate all clean unwanted clothes, bedlines, shoes, towels and textiles, bags, belts and soft toys etc. Mobile phones and books (no school books) are also accepted but please keep seperate from clothes. No carpets, duvets or mats can be accepted. All funds raised will go towards the upgrade of our juvenile pitch and upkeep of all facilities at Ballymac GAA. Thanks for your support GIRLS U12: Moyvane 3-03 Ballymac 2-04 We played our first game of the year away to Moyvane in the North Kerry League on Sunday last. Ballymac took the game to Moyvane from the start and were 2-02 to 1-02 ahead at the break. Moyvane upped their game in the second half and it was very close for all of the half. Our girls can consider themselves very unlucky to go down by two points. We done to all 18 girls who made the trip. Next game is at home to Castlegregory - date and time will be on the website www.ballymacgaa.com Team: Robin White, Sinead McKeown, Niamh Rahilly, Roisin Long, Caroline Hurley, Eve Creedon, Maeve O Sullivan, Aine Rice, Ashling O Connell, Aoife Galvin, Cora Savage, Emily O Donoghue, Lisa Curran, Ellie McElligott, Jade Riordan, Millie Dunne, Laura Dunne, Cait Rice COISTE NA NÓG: FAOI 16: Our U16's will continue training for the coming season. If you are not receiving a text about training times and games please contact Bridget Leen on 087 1249754. FAOI 14: ( Born 1999 & 2000) have now resumed training for 2013. A weekly text will be sent about training and games. If you are not receiving text please contact Tony Silles on 087-8057663. New members are always welcome. The following are our county league fixtures for Division 4. Friday 29thMarch at 5.00 at home to Fossa, Wednesday 3 rd April at 6.45 away to Gneeveguilla, Wednesday 10th April at 7.00 home to Ballyduff, Wednesday 17th April at 7.15 away to Kenmare and Wednesday 24that 7.30 home to Milltown/Castlemaine. FAOI 12: Our U12 boys training has recommenced. We had our first session on Saturday evening last and all the young lads did very well. We continue for the month of March with training Wednesday evenings from 6.30 to 7.45 and Saturday evenings from 5.00-6.15. Any new players interested in joining us can contact Mike Brosnan on 087 9240661. It's never too late to join our teams!!! Ballymac Academy resumed on Sunday last. There was great enthusiasm and lots of smiling faces to be seen across all age groups. The fun and games will continue next Sunday at 11am. Mark O'Connor, Andy Rodgers, James Bailey, Adam Joy and Maurice O'Connell were very impressive in the U10 boys group. In the U8's Diarmuid O' Shea, Alex O'Riordan, Micheál Savage, Michael Prendegast, Tommy Palmer, Evan O'Brien and Jack O'Connor demonstrated great sportsmanship. In the U6's group Lee Wharton, Stephen Turner, Sam Slattery, Cian Harris and Maurice Harrington did extremely well. A fantastic effort was made by Sarah Mason, Roisin Rahilly, Lauren Daly and Cora Savage in the U8 and U 10 girls. Well done to Kate Collins, Laura Kelly and Laobhaoise Mansfield who also played very well. Well done to Debra O'Connor and Sarah O Rourke in the U6's girls group. PARADE: We will be marching in the St Patricks Day parade, everyone is welcome to join in. BREITHLAETHANTA: The Academy wishes a 'Briethla sona' to Oisin O'Shea, Conor Daly, Maurice O'Connell, Andy Rogers, Peter Stein, Geraldlynn Cassidy and Jade Riordan. Enjoy your celebrations. MOTHER'S DAY: 'A man loves his sweetheart the most, his wife the best, but his mother the longest'. (Irish Proverb) Happy Mothers Day!! BEALE Beale GAA / Community Centre Lotto Sunday 24th February, 2013 was held in 'Kilcooley's Bar' The numbers drawn were 1, 19, 25 & 26 there was no winner of the €3,000 Jackpot, the lucky dip winners are €40 - Paul Horgan, C/O Feale Bar €30 - Mickey Mulvihill, C/O Post Office €20 - Thomas Murphy, C/O Courtney's Bar 5 Free tickets - Samuel Joyce, C/O post Office, Next draw will be held in Railway Bar on Sunday Night 10th March at 10pm and the Jackpot is €3,050 . We would like to thank everyone for your continued support Mass will be offered for the repose of the soul of Pádraic Liston on Sunday at 11.30pm in St John's Church at the request of Beale GAA club. Beale Minors secured the points in the County League, Division 5A, against St Patrick's, Blennerville on Saturday in Ballybunion. The opening half saw little separating the two sides and we kept our noses in front at the break by 2 points. Goals win matches and this was true for Beale as we ran out winners on a scoreline: Beale 2-8, St Patrick's 0-7. Beale team: Peter McMahon, Eoin Holly, Blake Hornyiak, Neilus Mulvihill, Stevie Linnane, Daniel Ellis, Brian Wall, Rory Mulvihill, Aaron Farrell, Shane Hanrahan, Wayne Jones, Killian Costelloe, Gearóid Kindelan. Substitute: Killian Walshe-O'Boyle for Gearóid Kindelan. Round 2 is way to Ballyduff on Saturday at 4.00pm. Beale Seniors play round 2 of the North Kerry League, Division 1B against Duagh on Sunday at 2.30pm in Duagh. Membership of the Beale GAA club is now open. Contact club registrar, James Buckley @ 087 7993069. Player membership: €50; non-player membership: €30. Closing date for membership end of March. AGM - At the recent AGM, Tomás Moran was elected Chairperson of North Kerry Coiste na nÓg. Beale GAA wish him best of luck in his new role. BROSNA Our yearly Lotto tickets are now due for renewal. For €100, you will become a member of the Brosna GAA club for a year. In the event of the Kerry Senior team progressing in the Munster and All Ireland football series for 2013, your name will be included upon request in any draws for available match tickets. You will also have a chance of winning our jackpot, which is now at €12,000, and also weekly lucky dips of €85 and 4 at €20. We thank you for your continued support. GAA Lotto: The draw for the GAA Lotto jackpot of €11,800 took place on Monday 25th February in The Woodview Bar. Numbers drawn were 6, 15, 21, 28. No Jackpot Winner. €50 and promoter's prize of €35 went to David O'Connell Brosna. Lucky dip winners of €20 each went to Aiden Murphy Brosna, Joan Browne Brosna, Helen Crotty Co Tipperary and Frank O'Keeffe New York. The next draw is on Monday 11th March in The Three Counties Bar. NK League: Brosna defeated Castleisland Desmonds on Sunday in a highly entertaining game. Desmonds took the lead through Stephen Bartlett but this was to be the only time that Brosna were behind in the game. Tom McGoldrick leveling up a minute later. Further scores from Adam Barry, Don McAuliffe, Mike Finnegan and Dave Curtin saw Brosna take a 5 points to 3 lead at half time. With Bartlett and Eoin Murphy getting the other scores for the away team. The 2nd half continued in the same way as Captain Shane Curtin and Flor McAuliffe started to dominate the midfield battle. Brosna built up a big lead with scores from McAuliffe, Barry, McGoldrick and Curtin. Castleisland scored a consolation goal in injury time through Donnagh O'Connell. Final Score Brosna 13 points Castleisland 1-7. Brosna entertain Listowel Emmets on Sunday 10th March at 2.30pm in the latest round of the NK League. CLOUNMACON Lotto Results 28th Feb Numbers: 2 4 15 27 - No Winner of €13,000 Jackpot Lucky Dips: €50 Mike Heffernan, c/o The Dollar €30 Joe Horgan, c/o The Dollar €30 Margaret Curtin, Clounmacon €20 Catherine, Aoife, Chloe & Shauna Walsh, Gortdromagauna €20 Willliam Lynch, Tarmons West, Moyvane 1 Match 3 receiving €20: Evelyn Greaney, Courthouse Rd. Clounmacon Victory Dance: The 2013 Clounmacon Victory Dance took place on friday night last in the Listowel Arms Hotel. Players were presented with their medals from selector Mike Collins for winning the Barrett Cup and the North Kerry Junior Championship in 2012. The 'A' Team player of the year 2012 award, sponsored and presented by Noreen Buckley went to Tom McCarthy and the 'B' Team player of the year award was presented by B Team Manager John O'Carroll to Timmy Kelly. Well done to both players. A night of great fun and dance was had, with DJ Dominic Scanlon keeping the dance floor full all night. Special thanks to The Listowel Arms Hotel for their great service and meal, to anyone who sponsored spot prizes and everyone else who helped organise and make the night such a great success. Here's to the new season been as succesfull as last years. CORDAL Cordal Coiste na nÓg U-16: It's not often that a football team and its mentors have the opportunity to test themselves on a pitch where no real knowledge exists of the opposition's style of play and playmakers. On a bitter cold day in Tralee, such an opportunity presented itself on Sunday, March 3rd at the John Mitchel's ground, where though the first scores went to the home side, Cordal-Scartaglen steadied and led at half time with a score-line of 2-6 to 0-7. A very good start to the second half saw Cordal-Scartaglen take control and deliver a performance with well worked goals and fine point-taking on display. The performance saw Cordal-Scartaglen leave Tralee worthy winners, 5 points to the good on a score-line of 4-11 to John Mitchel's 2-12. Congratulation to Cordal-Scartaglen on their excellent win and performance, commiserations to the John Michel's team and mentors. Two wins and a draw on the road see the team take on Knocknagoshel-Brosna in Scartaglen for Round 4 of the Castleisland District League. The match begins at 11am on Sunday 10 March. All support is very welcome as the lads take on more local opposition East Kerry Super League: Teams: Cordal V Fossa Venue: Cordal Referee: James O Sullivan, Firies, Throw in: 2.00pm Final Score: Cordal 2- 09 Fossa 0-08 Cordal will host Listry on Sunday 10th March in the East Kerry Super League.Throw in is expected at 2.00pm, we would appreciate your support for the team and management. Minor County League: Cordal / Scartaglen will take on Ballylongford/ Asdee on Saturday 9th March at home in the Minor County League. Supporters are asked to check with Clubs before travelling.Throw in is expected at 4.00pm. We wish the team and management the best of luck. Senior Club Membership: The Club Membership in now due for the coming year.All players be advised that due to insurance requirement,registration of all players is compulsory by the Club.Our membership is fantastic value and the fee has gone unchanged for a number of years,prices are as follows: Senior Players:€50 (insurance included) Students €35. (insurance included) Full Adult Membership: €30. Membership can be payed to the membership collector Dan O Donoghue or registration officer James O Donoghue as soon as possible,please. CAUSEWAY Causeway GAA: U6/U8/U10 training began last Friday evening and proved to be a great success. It will take place in the Community Hall every Friday evening from 6 to 7 until further notice. All children welcome. Great fun while also learning the basic skills of hurling and getting fit. Just bring along a helmet and a bottle of water. Any queries contact Mary Jo at 0872953560. DINGLE CORN UI MHUIRI: Comhgairdeas leis an bpobal scoil a bhuaigh Corn Ui Mhuiri, don tarna bliain as a cheile nuair a bhuadar ar Colaiste Brenainn, Cill Airne I gCill Airne 1-5 le 1-8 ar an Satharn seo caite. WEST KERRY SF LEAGUE: Dingle had an easy 1-14 to 0-5 over An Ghaeltacht in the West Kerry SF league Saturday last. On Sunday next they take on Lispole in the semi-final at Annascaul at 1.30p.m. DUAGH Photographs from the Victory Social may now be seen on the www.lyreacrompane.com website. Duagh seniors tasted the first defeat for a long time when beaten by Finuge in the North Kerry league at Finuge on Saturday. GAA: GAA lotto results from last week: no winner of €3,200 numbers drawn 13.15,20.27. €20 each to Donie McGrath, Glin; Katie Flynn, Duagh; Jack O Carroll, Pipers Hill; Rod Murphy, Lyre; Rod Murphy, Lyre. 5 x5 frees; Geraldine Broderick, Lisroe Pat Fitzgerald, Abbeyfeale Helen O Brien, Scrahan Michael O Connor, Keylod Cathal Dennehy, Duagh. Sellers Prize - Kieran Quirke,next weeks jackpot €3,300 at O Briens Bar . CROTTA CROTTA COISTE NA NOG A.G.M: The Crotta Coiste na nOg Annual General Meeting was held before a nice sizeable crowd in St Columbas Centre, Kilflynn. on Sunday evening 24th February. Chairman Sonny Egan presided and said that 2012 was a very successful year at under age level and thanked all coaches, parents and players for their tremendous efforts during the year, and he thanked all those who expended so much time and energy in coaching and training the young players. A very comprehensive secretary's report was delivered by Plunkett McElhatton detailing all the club activities on and off the field during very successful 2012. Treasurer John Mahony presented a very professional and detailed set of accounts. Tributes were paid to outgoing Secretary Plunkett McElhatton, Club's Merchandise Officer Maura O'Connell who stepped down from their positions. The following officers were elected for 2013: Chairman: Sonny Egan, Vice Chairman: Martin Conway, Secretary: Shane Herbert, Assistant Secretary, Paul O'Donoghue. Treasurer: John Mahony, Public Relations Officer: Mike Parker, County Board/North Kerry Board Delegate - Sonny Egan. Child Welfare Officer: Kathleen Quinlan, Coaching Officer: Brendan Mahony, Membership Officer: Paul O'Donoghue. Scor Officer: Anne Mahony, Club Merchandise: Aidan Sheahan. CROTTA LOTTO RESULTS: The four numbers picked out of the drum for the Crotta hurling club's weekly lottery draw with a Jackpot of €2,000 by Independent Observer: Dan McCarthy, Knockbrack, Kilflynn were: 10,11, 17 and 18 on Monday 25th February in Parker's Pub, Kilflynn. There was No Jackpot winner. The Lucky dip prizes winner each receives €35: Joe Joe Daly, Currovough, Tralee, Adam Fealy, Muckenaugh, Lixnaw and Pat Herbert, Kilflynn. Tickets are available at 2 Euro each or 3 for €5 from Club tickets sellers or from Herbert's Bar & Shop, Kilflynn, Parker's Pub, Kilflynn, An Siopa, Kilflynn, Kilflynn Post Offices, Foleys Shop, Lixnaw J.J Walsh's Bar, Lixnaw, Quilter's Bar, Lixnaw and from The Half Way Bar, Glenoe, Listowel, you can also play on the Crotta lotto on line now, check out www.crottagaa.ie or www.locallotto.ie. MUNSTER SCHOOLS SENIOR FINAL: Best of luck to Crotta Hurler, Jordan Conway and his Causeway Comprehensive School team mates who will play Scoil Mhuire Thomastown, Co Kilkenny in the Masita All Ireland Vocational Schools Junior Hurling Championship semi final on Saturday March 9th at 1:00pm, Venue: TBC KILFLYNN DEFIBRILLATOR GROUP: CPR and Defibrillator (AED) courses will take place at St Teresas National School, Kilflynn on the Saturday 9th March 2013. Two courses will be run on the day, first course 9am to 1pm and the second course from 2pm to 6pm. Course slot times will be allotted on a first come basis. To assist in defraying some of the cost of these courses, course cost is €20 per participant with the balance paid by the Kilflynn Defibrillator Group. New volunteers are most welcome. Those interested contact Helen at 0877457922 or Joe at 0851742189. SCOR NA bPAISTE: On Friday night 1st March in Causeway the North Kerry Hurling board held their Competion for scor na bpaisti. O'Neills Crotta competed in 4 events. Representing the club on the night were; Figure dancing; Nicole O' Connor, Ciara Rohan, Aoife Bowler, Ciara Bowler, Tadhg McKenna, Denis Nolan, Daragh O' Braoin and Cillian Baker, Instrumental music; Emer Quinlan, Páraic Shanahan, Amy O'Sullivan and Cillian Trant, Quiz team; Darragh O' Donoghue, Eamonn Rohan, Cillian Trant and Páraic Shanahan. Solo Singing; Kate Lynch. While all the children performed very well it was Kate Lynch, Glenballyma, Kilflynn having won the solo singing competition will now go forward to represent the club in the county semi final next Sunday. DESMONDS Brosna 0-13 - Desmonds 1-07 North Kerry League Round 3 3/3/2013 In Round 3 of the North Kerry League on Sunday, Desmonds slumped to their first defeat of the campaign against a strong, clinical and determined Brosna side. From the off, Brosna took control of the tie and led by 2 points early in the first half, Desmonds first score coming from a Steven Bartlett free. Brosna's dominance in many parts of the field during the first half was proving troublesome for Desmonds, in particular the vast amount of breaking ball that was won by the men in orange time and time again. Scores too were difficult to come by and following further scores from Steven Bartlett and Eoin Murphy, Desmonds entered the half time break trailing 0-05 to 0-03. The second half would require a much stronger Desmonds effort but it was Brosna who again seized the initiative kicking the first 2 scores of the second half. As the 2nd half continued, Brosna began to look the more comfortable of the 2 sides, with their defence tackling aggressively and breaking up-field on numerous occasions, and helped by the accuracy of their forwards who's long range point kicking was excellent. Late in the game Desmonds rallied and points from Cian O'Connor, Tommy Walsh Tadgh O'Connell and Tommy Hickey kept Desmonds within touching distance. Following 2 further Brosna scores, Donagh O'Connell's superbly finished goal brought the sides back to 3 points, a lead however, that Brosna would not relinquish to the final whistle. A disappointing day for the men in blue and white, although it may well prove a valuable lesson in the coming battles to be faced in the year. Desmonds Lotto Results: Saturday 2nd. No Jackpot Winners. Lucky Dip Winners: €80: Noreen O'Sillivan, Tullig; €40: Aine Kennedy, Knockanalig; €40: Adrian Collins, Duagh; €40: Dan Kearney, Laccabawn Next Lotto will take place on March 17th, in The Poet's Inn. FINUGE SENIOR FOOTBALL: Finuge had another big win in Division 1B of the North Kerry League on Saturday last. They outplayed North Kerry champions Duagh at O'Sullivan Park. The home side led 2-8 to 0-3 at half time, both goals coming from full forward Ricky Heffernan and went on to overcome their rivals in the second half. Ricky Heffernan scored two more goals in this half. Final score: Finuge 6-11 Duagh 1-7. The third round against St. Senans is due to be played next Sunday at 2.30 p.m. in Mountcoal. Team v Duagh: Cillian Fitzmaurice: Kenny Walz, Declan McCarthy, Keefer Roche; Paudie Galvin (0-1), Conor Fitzmaurice, Michael Stackpoole; Maurice Corridan (0-1), John McCarthy; Darren O'Sullivan (0-1), Stephen Power (0-2, 0-1f), Enda Galvin 0-2, 0-1f); Raymond Galvin (0-2, 0-1f), Ricky Heffernan (4-1), James Flaherty (1-1). Subs who played: Eoin McCarthy, Paudie Lyons, J.P.Barrett, Greg O'Connor (1-0), Kevin McCarthy. MINOR FOOTBALL In the second round of Division 4 of the Keanes Supervalu County League Finuge are scheduled to play Fossa at 4.00 p.m in Fossa next Saturday. ALL IRELAND DVD Copies at €20 each. are still available from Ann Marie O'Sullivan, Bridget Liston and Stacks Londis, Lixnaw KILMOYLEY REGISTRATION - It is that time of the year again, when members of the Finance Committee of Kilmoyley Hurling Club will be calling to all the Parish over the next few weeks in order to collect membership for adult members. The cost is €50 for all players over 18 years of age and €25 for all non-playing members. Extensive work must be done on the dressing rooms and field this year and as membership fees is the main source of income for the club it is VITAL for any club to have a strong membership base and we urge you to contribute to Kilmoyley Hurling club by becoming a member for 2013 and we want to thank you for your continued support all along. People living away from home can also avail of membership by contacting the club. RESULTS - SENIOR North Kerry League. Kilmoyley V St Brendan's. This game never went ahead on Sunday as St Brendan's were unable to field a team. MINOR North Kerry league - Kilmoyley V Causeway. This game was a one-sided affair as Causeway dominated the game winning on a score line of Causeway 8-13 to Kilmoyley 2-7. Kilmoyley improved in the second half and with more work can get up on top, but each player has to put in the work. Kilmoyley had players who were on the age down to 14 years. But that is the same with all clubs now as a lot of them are struggling for numbers. Commitment to the club is vital for hurling to keep going. Well done to those players who are committed to the game and their club. Some players were involved with their County, and a lot of players are preparing for the Causeway Comprehensive semi final game, but they still came out on Sunday and played for their club. Team - Emmet Meehan, Shane Monahan, Niall Meehan, Darren Godley, Maurice O Connor, Paudie O Connor, Robert McElligott, Paudie Godley, Kieran Regan, Robert Collins, Jordan Brick, Sean Curran, Liam Claffey, Fiachra King, Mark Lynch. Subs Eamon Dowling, Philip Flaherty and Jack Sheehy. The Minors are due to be in action again this Saturday V Ballyduff, but this will probable change due to the Causeway School semi final. TRAINING - Training continues for all age groups and members are left know. The Under 9 train at the Community Centre on Sunday mornings at 11am. All children and parents involved. Parents are encouraged to stay around and help out for the hour and children come along and enjoy the fun. FIELD CLOSURE - Kilmoyley sports field is closed to games for the remainder of this month as the goals have to be sodded and the field has to be spiked to help dry it out. CAUSEWAY COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOL - Best of luck to the Causeway under 16 and a half team and mentors who are playing in the All-Ireland "A" semi final v Johnstown, Kilkenny on this coming Saturday. Time and venue to be decided. More details when available will appear on the Kilmoyley Hurling club facebook Page(New page). Kilmoyley will be represented by Kieran Regan, Robert Collins, Kieran McCarthy and Maurice O Connor. KNOCKANURE Lotto Results 1st March Jackpot €7,400 Nos Drawn 11-29-31-32 No Winner Lucky Dips John Barry School Road Diarmuid Woods Knockanure Con Lynch & Catherine Walsh Gortdromagouna Noirin Buckley Main street Moyvane Bernadette Enright Keylod Bibi Gleeson Upper Athea Bar prize Tom O Sullivan Next Weeks Jackpot €7,500 LISTOWEL EMMETS Listowel Emmets Monthly Draw: The Listowel Emmets Monthly Draw took place at the Clubhouse in Frank Sheehy Park last Wednesday evening. The draw which was a double draw for January and February was made by Club Captain Denis Walsh. The results are as follows: Early Bird Winners: €100 Louis O'Connell - Listowel €100 Seamus Galvin - Woodlawn, Listowel January Draw: 1st prize €250 Orla O'Neill - Listowel 3 x €100 Denis Walsh - Listowel Edmund Hayes - Listowel John Costelloe - Listowel 6 x €50 Imelda Dowling - Listowel Tom Fitzgerald - Listowel Aaron Kennelly - Listowel Michelle Galvin - Billeragh ,Listowel Peadar O'Sullivan - Glenbeigh Tim & Siobhan Nolan - Listowel February Draw: 1st prize €250 Rose Molyneaux - Listowel 3 x €100 Ger McCarthy - Listowel Joby Costelloe - Listowel Colman & Ann O'Brien - Listowel 6 x €50 Pat Duffy - Listowel Sean O'Mahony - Listowel Jimmy Horgan - Listowel Noreen Wallace - Listowel Paudie O'Connor - Listowel Aidan McCarthy - Listowel Congratulations to all prize winners. Listowel Emmets would like to thank everybody who supported the draw. The next draw will take place on Wednesday March 27th. Tickets can still be bought for €5 per month contact Con McCarthy 087-2513582. Fixtures: 2013 North Kerry Senior Football League Division 1A - Round 1 - Sponsored by Con McCarthy of McCarthy Brokers Listowel Listowel Emmets V Tarbert Date: Friday 08th March Venue: Frank Sheehy Park - Listowel Time: 7.30 P.M. 2013 North Kerry Senior Football League Division 1A - Round 4 - Sponsored by Con McCarthy of McCarthy Brokers Listowel Brosna V Listowel Emmets Date: Sunday 10th March Venue: Brosna Time: 2.30 P.M. Listowel Emmets Ladies Training for U8 and U10 girls starts on Saturday the 9th of March 2013 and will continue every Saturday thereafter. Time is 10.30am to 12pm. Venue is Frank Sheehy Park. New players welcome. All players to register on the morning. Registration fee is €20 per child. A sub of €2 per week will apply to cover cost of equipment etc. Any enquires please contact Billy McElligott on 086-8748275 or Kevin Lynch on 087-9745341. Listowel U16 start their 2013 season with a round 1 North Kerry league game v Corca Duibhne in Frank Sheehy Park on Friday 8th March at 6pm. The girls are also playing a challenge game v Kerry U14 on Tuesday night at 6:30 P.M. in Tralee IT. All support welcome. U12's had a thrilling opening game of their season when they played Abbeydorney at home. In what was a close game throughout the girls were narrowly beaten by two points. Even with this narrow defeat this excellent performance will give the girls confidence for the coming games. Listowel Emmets will host the refixed Kerry Senior Ladies National League Division 2 game against Clare on Saturday next at 2.00 P.M. Anybody available to assist on the day should contact secretary Paula Henry or any committee member. Please support the Kerry girls as they look to get their third win in the National League after the drawn game to Westmeath last weekend. Listowel Emmets Senior Ladies secured a second win in a row in the North Kerry League with a comprehensive 2-11 to 1-02 victory over Abbeydorney away on Sunday last. After the welcome return of Kerry Star Breda Lane last weekend for the Paidi OSe tournament the girls were without Breda again as she traveled with Kerry to play Westmeath. With Rebecca Stapleton and Heather O'Rourke both carrying injuries and Norma O'Sullivan not available, there were opportunities for others to make their mark on the first 15. The focus of the senior team will now switch to the County League for the coming weeks with a home fixture against Laune Rangers on Saturday at 12.00 P.M. Development Plan: Last Thursday night was the first and most crucial step in the process of putting together a Development Plan for the Listowel Emmets Ladies Football club. William Harmon, National Ladies Football Development Manager facilitated an open workshop where members of the club chaired discussion forums in the key areas being addressed in the plan; Development, Finance and Fundraising, Facilities, Administration and Leadership, Communication and PR. Denis Walsh, Editor of the North Kerry Advertiser chaired the forum on PR during which many simple ideas were put forward as to how the activities of the club can continue to be communicated to the public. The planning committee would like to thank all those who assisted in any way last Thursday night. The committee will now collate all the information and together with other members of the club will prepare a 2 year plan for presentation to the club before the end of April. 2012 North Kerry Novice Football Championship Final: Listowel Emmets C 2-07 St. Senan's C 2-06 The Referee however had the score recorded as 2-07 to 2-07 so therefore the game ended in a draw officially and will have to be replayed. Listowel Emmets: 1. Mike Dalton 2. Shane O'Driscoll (Seán Carey) 3. Daragh Broderick 4. Darren Chute (Pat Hartnett) 5. Bryan Greaney (1-00 - Penalty) 6. Tom Walsh 7. Michéal Collins (Liam Collins) 8. Michael O'Connor 9. Billy MacElligott (0-01) 10. Jack Hartnett (Edward McCarthy) 11. Kieran O'Sullivan (0-02 (0-02 - Frees)) 12. Mikey Kennelly (0-01) 13. Jerry Kelliher 14. Mikey Paul Kelliher 15. David Keane (1-03 (0-02 - Fress)) Subs not used: Glen Dunphy John Healy Harry Foley Emmets Progressive 41 Card Drive: continues every Wednesday night at 9.00 P.M. in the Emmets Clubhouse, come along and enjoy the craic and don't forget to bring a friend. Emmets Coiste na nÓg: U6s: Listowel Emmets U6s kick start their year on Saturday 16th March at 10.00 A.M. in the gym at St.Michael's College. These sessions are open to boys and girls born in 2007 & 2008 and children must be going to school. These fun filled Saturday's where boys and girls learn the very basics of gaelic football. Hope to see you all there! Contact Norah Browne for further details 087-9955291 Saturday Morning Club: Emmets Saturday Morning Club will begin on Easter Saturday 30th March at Frank Sheehy Park from 10.30 A.M. - 12 Noon. The Saturday Morning Club is open to all players aged between 7 and 10 years old. Registration is €10. Please contact Patsy McCarthy for further details 087-6751364 Training Times for U12s and U14s If you are interested in joining other teams please see their training schedule below U14's training takes place on Monday evenings at 6.30 P.M. in the Town Park U12's will begin on Thursday 21st March 2013 at 6.00 P.M. in the Town Park LIXNAW Hurling Club: Activity began on the playing field on Sunday morning when the minors defeated Ballyduff in the North Kerry league in Lixnaw . Lixnaw won by 0-14 to 0-4 . The panel was as follows ; D.Silles, W. O'Connor, D. O'Regan, T. Brosnan, G. Stackpoole, I. McAuliffe, M . Stackpoole, S. Conway, J. P. Barrett, J. Buckley, J. Wallace, J. McKenna, T. Foley, L. Mullins, T. Molyneaux, C. Sheehy. The seniors lined out against Crotte in the North Kerry league on Sunday and were victorious on a scoreline of 2-6 to 1-2 . The panel of players consisted of M. Stackpoole, K. Waltz, D. McCarthy, M. Corridan, Conor Fitzmaurice, S. Power, Gavin O'Connor, E. Galvin, K. Roche, P. Lyons, C. O'Brien, Greg O'Connor,J. Lyons, R. Heffernan,J. Flaherty, Cillian Fitzmaurice, C. McCarthy, J. Fitzgerald, K. Boyd, G. Kelliher, J. Silles, W. O'Connor, K. O'Connell. Fixtures; The minor team are scheduled to play Causeway in Lixnaw on Saturday but this may be changed due to a game involving Causeway Comprehensive School . Bord na nÓg; Training has commenced for all age groups. The under 16 team will be managed by Tommy Molyneaux and John Griffin with Johnny Conway and any interested parents to give assistance also . The under 14 team personnel will be Nick Mullins, Jae Browne and Liam Mullins while the under 12 team management will be John McCarthy, Joe Shanahan, Benny Stack and Hugh Stack . Trainhg for this panel will be on Friday evenings at 7pm . Derrick Molloy and Moss Allen will take charge of the under 10 panel while Kenneth O' Sullivan and John McCarthy will be involved with the under 8 age group . If any other people are interested in assisting with any of these panels or in any way they will be most welcome . NK HURLING BOARD St. Brendans minors v Ballyheigue: NK Minor League Rd. 1 St. Brendan's v Ballyheigue played in Ardfert on Sunday 3rd March. The first outing of 2013 for these teams was played out in Ardfert in cold but dry conditions. St. Brendan's led from the start with a few Cian Hussey points, and continued to score from play, while Ballyheigue struggled to make their mark. A fine save by goalie Padraig Casey (St. Brendan's) gave them the upper hand and they added a few more points in the second half to leave the final score 0-16 to Ballyheigue's 0-7. Best for Ballyheigue were Philip Lucid, Brian Riordan and Jimmy Hehir, while St. Brendan's were best served by Patrick McElligott, Cian Hussey and Padraig Kearney. Referee: Butch Fealy. NOTES: Bag Packing for St. Brendan's juvenile's will take place on Friday and Saturday 15th & 16th March in Dunnes Stores,NCR, Tralee and all support is greatly appreciated. ST. BRENDANS GOLF CLASSIC will take place Easter weekend 29/30/31/ 1st April at Ardfert Golf Centre, sponsored by Eddie Morrisson of Ardfert Pharmacy, with prizes worth €500. Teams of 4 €80 and Ardfert Golf Centre can be contacted at 066 7134744 for more details. Minor League: Lixnaw 0-14 Ballyduff 0-4 Kilmoyley 2-7 Causeway 8-13 St. Brendans 0-16 Ballyheigue 0-8 Abbey/Crotta A bye Senior league Group 1 Abbeydorney 1-12 Ballyheigue 0-16 Lixnaw 3-12 Crotta 2-6 Group2 Ballyduff 0-4 Causeway 0-6 Kilmoyley w/o St. Brendans scr NKHB Minor leagues. Please note Round 2 will be played on Sat March 9th All games at 4. 00 pm Group 1. Ballyduff v Kilmoyley Causeway v Lixnaw Group 2 Ballyheigue v Abbeydorney/ Crotta St. Brendans a bye Next round of NKHD Senior League on weekend March 17th. SCARTAGLEN GAA LOTTO Scartaglin GAA Club's February Lotto Draw took place in Lyon's Bar on Sunday night February 17. The Jackpot was €11,200 and was not won. Numbers drawn were 7, 9, 16 & 19. Consolation 'Lucky Dip' winners were €40 Teresa Finnegan, Scartaglin, €30 each Marie Collins, Brosna & Michael Deenihan, €20 each to Maura Fleming c/o Patie Lenihan, Knockrour, Brian O'Connor, Knockrour West & Denis Lenihan, Counguilla. The next draw will be in Fleming's Bar on this Sunday night March 10th - Jackpot €11,400. LADIES FOOTBALL: Scartaglen Senior Ladies play Firies in Scartaglen on Sunday next March 10 at 12 noon in Round 1 of the County Senior League Division 2. Scartaglen Ladies Football Club wishes to thank all who contributed to their annual Church gate collection held recently and a word of thanks also to those who helped take up the collection. COUNTY MINOR LEAGUE: Scart/Cordal got their Minor County League campaign off to a good and winning start with a comprehensive 4-14 to 0-12 victory over near neighbour Currow in the opening round of the competition played in Currow recently. The first half was even enough with Scart/Cordal leading at the break by a single point 0-7 to 0-6. EK SUPER LEAGUE: In Round 3 of the East Kerry Super League Division 1B Round 3 Scartaglen found Rathmore too strong and lost on a final scoreline of 2-13 to 1-10. Nevertheless it was a reasonably good performance from an understrength Scartaglen side who trailed at the break 1-9 to 0-5. In the second half the local lads came more into the game and added a further 1-5 to their first half total. ST KIERANS Club AGM 2013: The Annual General Meeting of the club went ahead in Cordal Community Centre last Monday night March 4th. Full details of officers returned will be published next week. €500 Cross Country Quiz: Heat 7 of the quiz took place in the Crown Hotel Castleisland last Friday night March 1st and representing Desmonds in the final on Friday March 15th will be The Kingdom Team of Joan Walsh, John London and Moss Hartnett and the Crown Hotel Team of John Power, Johnny O Sullivan and others. The final night of the quiz will be held is Walsh's Bar, Knocknagoshel this Friday night March 8th March at 9pm. Tables of 4 cost €20. Looking forward to a great night of fun and laughter. St Patrick's Day Parade: The club will take part in the Castleisland St. Patrick's day parade again this year. Any players from the seven clubs, under 16 or minor teams who would like to parade in the club jersey with our float, please contact Tom at 087 2638476. ST SENANS Fixtures; N. K. L. St. Senans play Finuge on Sunday in . Minor County League; St. Senans play Churchill away on Saturday. Results;North Kerry Novice Champship final; St. Senans 'C' 2-6, Listowel 'C' 2-6. St Senans, Connor Keane, Alan Kelly, Mike Behan, David Hogan, Paud Whelan, Luke Ward, Gearóid O'Connell, Luke Lynch, Timmy O'Sullivan, Tim Quinlan, Tom Moroney, Tom Thornton, Alan Doran, Micheal Lynch, Murish Stack. Subs used, John P Quilter, Eoin O'Connell, Marcus Kelliher, Johnny Daughton. North Kerry Novice Champship semi final; St. Senans C 1-9 Clonmacon B 1-4, St Senans, Connor Keane, Alan Kelly, Mike Behan, Tim Quinlan, Murish Stack, Eamon Walsh, Eoin O'Connell, Luke Lynch, Adrain Fitzmaurice, Tom Moroney, Tom Thornton, Alan Doran, Micheal Lynch. Fixturs; Please contact any club office about any fixtures this weekend. MEMBERSHIP: is now due for 2013. Senior and Junior players €50 each, Minors €10 each, Members €20. Closing date March 1st please note closing date. LOTTO; 03/03/2013 Numbers drawn6,9,23 & 31. No Winner. Next weeks Lotto €12,900 €30,Mags Rellihan, Knockreagh. Matthew Doody, Kilflynn. €20, Tom McCarthy, Duagh. William Buckley, Knockbrane. Bottle of whisky, Treasa Browne, Skeehenerin. YEARLY LOTTO: Yearly lotto's are now due for renewal, the first draw will commence on Sunday night April 7th there will be a once off draw on the night for 5 x €100 Cheques for all yearly members. The lotto is the clubs main source of income, so we are appealing to all parents, players and members to please support the lotto. Thank you to those of you that have supported the club lotto in the past and looking forward to your continued support, it is greatly appreciated. Tickets are available at local outlets or from club delegates. Present Lotto Jackpot stands at €12,900. TARBERT Music Class takes place on Wednesday evenings in Community Centre. Improvers 6. 30 to 7pm. Advanced 7pm to 7. 30pm. 5euro per child. Children must be registered with Tarbert GAA. New members welcome. Congratulations to; Ashling O'Carroll, Conor Heaphy, Adam Mahony and Brian Cregan who were all very worthy winners at Sult na Nog recently. Well done. GAA LOTTO: There was no winner of last week's lotto draw. The numbers drawn were; 11, 12, 13 and 27. Bar Prize winner Sheila O'Connor. The Lucky Dip winners were Noelle McGibney, Mike Griffen, Noreen Boland, Kieran Ahern and Nora Roland. Next week's draw will take place in the Carmody's Bar with a jackpot of €1,300. Thanks to all those who continue to support the Lotto. Yearly tickets are now available from all committee members. MATCH RESULTS: Minors – Moyvane/Tarbert had an excellent victory over Listowel in the County League. Played in Moyvane the combination side got off to a poor start and were five points down after fifteen minutes. Two excellent goals by Sean Flavin and Martin Stack settled the team who led by 3-5 to 2-7 at half time. The second half was a very competitive affair with the combination side running out winners on a scoreline of 3-9 to 2-9. Next game is away to Ardfert next Saturday. Tarbert Seniors commenced their senior campaign in the North Kerry League in Shannon Park last Saturday with a convincing win over Moyvane on a scoreline of 0-13 to 0-5. Played in excellent conditions teams were level at half time on a scoreline of 0-4 each. Tarbert completely dominated the second half and ran out convincing winners. Team; D. Enright, J. Finucane, I. Flavin, P. Hanlon, S. O'Connor, J. Wren, G. O'Connell, C. Flavin, M. Normile, A. Lanigan, K. Wren, D. Wren, D. Langan, M. Buckley, G. O'Sullivan. Subs who played were; D. O'Connor, D. Leahy, and N. Stack. U-21s Clounmacon/Moyvane/Tarbert lost their semi-final game against Listowel on a scoreline of 1-9 to 0-14. MATCH FIXTURES: Tarbert play Listowel next in Listowel on Friday evening at 7:30. Tarbert are away to Castleisland on Sunday at 2:30. U-16s Moyvane/Tarbert U-16 team commence the North Kerry League on Monday 18 March at home to Finuge. Club Membership: Players and members are reminded that closing date for membership is the end of March. Players cost €50 while ordinary members cost €25, subscriptions to be forwarded to Club Register Donnacha Enright. Kerryman 
