sport gaa
{  
    February 01 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/i-can-see-the-day-when-all-ireland-finalists-will-down-tools-26397298.html }
Scrap the leagues, run the All-Irelands in Champions League style, protect the clubs and pay the players. This is one revolutionary's vision of the future. Cliona Foley met with Clare man John O'Brien to find out more. PICTURE the scene: Inter-county training one Monday night in 2010. Amid the banter about yesterday's away trip and performance against Dublin, the Kerry County Secretary pops into the dressing room and happily dispenses last week's pay packets to the players. Depending on what division they're playing in and at what stage of the season, players could be getting anything from ?100 to ?750 a-week but everyone's brown envelope, noticeably, contains exactly the same amount. Shocking? Far-fetched? Delusional? Not to one GAA fan who believes it is not only perfectly possible but increasingly inevitable if the GAA is not to hit crisis point and a major conflict eventually with its clubs and players. He may not wear sandals and a beard or parade up and down Jones Road with a placard but John O'Brien (37) is a hurling revolutionary who thinks it's time the GAA woke up and smelled the coffee. Events of recent weeks, with the GAA inviting the FAI and IRFU to share Croke Park for a king's ransom, have only copperfastened his belief that the GAA has got to re-vamp its competitions and embrace semi-professionalism if it is not to implode. O'Brien, it should be stressed, is not a member of the GPA or an inter-county star. He is a card-carrying GAA member and passionate advocate who is willing to offer up his masterplan to start some debate about the problems that he says will eventually create revolt within the GAA's own ranks. Long before the 'Open Croker' issue O'Brien had run his ideas past GAA luminaries like Cyril Farrell and Liam Griffin when they were on the hurling review committee and he's not afraid to paint the GAA's ultimate nightmare scenario. "I can honestly see the day where the two All-Ireland finalists might some day down tools a few days beforehand and say 'we want A, B and C', once the players realise the power they have," he predicts. Millions "I'm not being mercenary, just look at the facts. A team that wins the All-Ireland - that brings in millions - gets something like ?10,000 for a holiday fund. "You've a recent study saying that 70 per cent of the players would like some form of payment. In this world we live in, in this Celtic Tiger era, asking players to make all those sacrifices for nothing just won't wash anymore." O'Brien's revolutionary ideas are not just about paying the players. His chief concern are the GAA's most important nurseries - clubs - an area that he says is under increasing siege. Clubs are losing access to their star players who, in turn, have little time for their families and selves, because of the huge demands now made on inter-county stars. O'Brien has some radical solutions: get rid of the National Leagues, run the All-Ireland on a 'champions league' type format with a clear unalterable master fixtures list for club and county. Oh and pay the players a weekly wage as well. "I know I could be burnt at the stake for my ideas, they're pretty radical," O'Brien admits. "But we have so many problems to overcome that we need to start a debate. "I want to shock people. Not for the sake of it but to see what other people can come up with and if we can move things forward." O'Brien's profile is certainly not that of a heretic. He played senior hurling for his Clare club Whitegate until last year and through the club and school (Scariff Community College), where he teaches maths and music, he sees the problems first-hand. "We're in east Clare but we'd be representative of clubs all around the country. You walk into any of them and they'll all be talking about the same problems." Inter-county players - from senior to minor - are increasingly unavailable to their clubs, he notes. And clubs are being squeezed fixture-wise also, because of inter-county demands. He's also seen young fellas in his own club turn to other sports or the yankee dollar come summer, because local fixtures are sacrificed too regularly to the inter-county god. "Most clubs don't see their intercounty players for six weeks before a major championships game, that's ridiculous. The GAA has to do something about that or clubs will die." Demands He believes the physical and personal demands of the modern intercounty game makes semi-professionalism an inevitability. "If we keep pushing them they'll go to other sports like rugby or soccer - sure, they already are," he insists. O'Brien proposes a semi-pro GAA system, with a strict payment scale which ensures there is no 'star-system' to escalate spending. He calculates this would cost ?7.3million and that the GAA could still make over ?9m in profits. Under his masterplan, county players would still be released back to their clubs every second weekend. And he feels strongly that counties with 20,000-plus capacity venues should be given more games to host: bringing the game back to the heart of local communities and business to local coffers. The brave Banner fan admits his proposed system is far from perfect but believes his lack of respect for GAA tradition and politics gives him a more objective eye. "Everybody is well aware of the seemingly endless problems with the existing GAA structure which impinges on everyone involved from club to county level, as well as supporters, families and administrators." Democratic If anything, he says, the GAA is too democratic. "Thousands of people can voice their opinion, which is great, but unfortunately that means county boards are talking shops and nothing much changes. "You have to have leadership who will make hard decisions, change structures, take the flak and move things on. Right now there are too many different bodies (like the provincial councils) with their own agenda. At this stage we need a properly integrated approach if we're to serve everyone's needs. "Change is imminent," O'Brien warns. "Are the GAA prepared to grasp the nettle and be proactive in the change process or be left behind and, in doing so, lose control of the games they have so carefully nurtured for over a 100 years? We need a debate."  Pay for play? The Proposal * John O'Brien believes it is hypocritical to exclude players from payment if other aspects of the sport are increasingly professional and that they will eventually demand it. * He says it would be possible to pay a small weekly allowance (with performance bonuses) and still make big profits for the organisation. * This would give players a real incentive to put in the massive effort and sacrifices now involved and also stop them going to other professional sports. * Each player on a panel is treated equally so there is no 'star' system and payment costs do not spiral with increased profile. How to do it * Counties names 30 'contracted' players at the start of a season and make them play for their clubs on alternate weeks. A balance must be achieved between club and county. * Players could get a weekly allowance depending on their division, plus expenses - Division 1, ?200; Division 2, ?150; Division 3, ?100. * Everyone on the squad is paid the same, thereby maintaining strong team ethic. Each player's money increases by 10 per cent each year he is on the panel, thereby rewarding longevity of service. * Play-offs: Give weekly bonuses that increase with each round of the playoffs reached. Division 1: ?500/?600/?700/?1000; Division 2: ?300/?400/?500/?750; Division 3: ?200/?300/?400/?500. Thus a Division 1 player earns a minimum ?4000 (20 weeks x ?200) and a possible ?6850 from the play-offs. The costs League section: with 990 players (33 teams by 30 players) getting an average of ?150 a-week, the league section will cost ?2,970,000. Play-offs: Totals should be ?726,000 each for hurling and football. Week 1: 24 teams at ?330 pp averages ?238,000. Week 2: 12 teams at ?430 pp averages ?155,000. Week 3: 12 teams at ?550pp averages ?198,000. Finals: 6 teams at ?750 pp averages ?135,000. Totals: ?3,696,000 each for hurling and football. Overall: ?7.392,000. Totals will increase slightly as players increase years but there should be an incremental rise in gate receipts to meet this. The profits * At the most conservative estimate, a game in the league section (with a 5,000 crowd paying ?10 each) will bring in a minimum of ?50,000. * Two All-Ireland finals alone (average ticket price of ?45) will bring in ?7.2m. * 160 matches a year in one code = 320 matches minimum per annum at ?50,000 each gives ?16m minimum in gate receipts. Profits: Minimum of ?16m minus players' fund (?7.39m) = approx ?9m.  A new look All-Ireland? The Proposal * Replace the National Leagues with a Champions League style format, played across three seeded divisions, culminating in three All-Ireland finals. * Three divisions of 11 teams. Each team plays all others in their division once (home or away), resulting in 10 games each. These alternate weekly for hurling and football, therefore the league section of the championship needs just 20 weeks to complete. * At the end of the league section, finishing positions on each table will be decided on points or percentages. Where you finish (position) decides who you meet in the play-offs and at least one, and possibly two, will be relegated so there is incentive in all league games. The play-offs * Either six or eight teams of the 11 go through and should include a promotional element from the next lowest division. There will be four rounds in the play-offs. * Round 1: 5v8 and 6v7. Winners go through, losers eliminated. 1v4 and 2v3. Winners into semi-finals, losers to round 2. * Round 2: Winners of 5v8 and 6v7 versus losers 1v4 and 2v3. Winners go to semi-finals, losers eliminated. * Round 3 (Semi-finals): Winners of Rd 2 v Winners 1v4 and 2v3. Winners go through to All-Ireland final. * Extra-time if needed in all play-offs and if there is a draw the replay must be midweek or the following Saturday. Provincial Finals? Get rid of them as they have no relevance for the All-Ireland. Or could be played for at the end of the league section by the two teams from a province that finish highest on league tables. Time Scale * Football season starts on March 2. League section ends July 6. Play-offs begin August 3 and finish on September 7 or 21 (depending on whether six or eight teams go through). * Hurling season starts on March 9 and league section ends July 13. Play-offs start August 10 and finish on either August 31 or September 14. * This system needs just seven months to complete and it includes a possible two-week break to allow anyone involved at inter-county level to holiday with their family. * It also allows for provincial finals and plenty of time for players to play with their clubs on alternate weekends, one of the big bugbears of the modern GAA. * It should also facilitate the use of local, county grounds for more games. * Minor, U21, colleges and provincial games would have to be built into this calendar but O'Brien suggests the hurling Railway Cup should be played in conjunction with the International Rules series to act as a marketing tool for hurling, especially abroad. 
