sport gaa
{ Kathy Donaghy 
    May 28 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/gaa-hits-back-at-states-criticism-of-guinness-deal-25949120.html }
THE GAA yesterday lashed out at Government criticism of the organisation's  sponsorship deal with Guinness for the all-Ireland hurling championships. Defending his organisation, GAA president Sean Kelly accused the Government of singling them out and said they would not be taking it lying down. "There is a tendency that when someone needs a kick to kick the GAA. The GAA is not going to be an easy target. "If anyone wants to kick the GAA in the backside they will get two kicks back because we are not a soft option for anyone," said Mr Kelly in an impassioned defence of his organisation. The GAA president was responding to remarks made by Health Minister Micheal Martin in relation to the Guinness sponsorship. Mr Martin advised the GAA to change tactics in seeking sponsorship for the national games. He warned that the deal was sending the wrong message to young people and said he believed drinks firms should not be linked to sports promotion. However, in a robust defence, Mr Kelly said the GAA was not pleased at being singled out in this way and said that while he welcomed any Government initiative in tackling underage drinking, picking on the GAA was unfair. "If you look at any sport - soccer, tennis - they are sponsored by drinks companies but none of these are being mentioned," Mr Kelly said. And he said it had to be remembered that the GAA was the last of the sporting organisations to accept sponsorship by a drinks company, which it had done in 1995. "We were aware of the issues in the very beginning. That was why we were reluctant to take sponsorship. "We spoke to Guinness and we were reassured it would be used to promote hurling," he said. Mr Kelly said there would be no turning back from the contract with Guinness which is up for renewal again in 2004. "As far as we're concerned we have entered into a bargain. We are not going to break that lightly." He claimed that if they were to withdraw the sponsorship it would make very little difference to the drink culture we have in Ireland. "The problem is there for a long, long time. The real issue is getting down to the individuals themselves." He said people had taken the GAA for granted and had not appreciated what the organisation had done for society in general. And he said that what the GAA had done by putting facilities in place in parishes all over the country was to take young people out and set them on the right path for life. "That is not appreciated by the Government and by society generally," said Mr Kelly. He said the main concern of the GAA was for youth and said perhaps the Government tended to single out the GAA because they wouldn't be as aware of what was going on in other sports. Speaking on the issue of tackling drink in society, Mr Kelly said: "We will do whatever we can to ensure this terrible scourge will be alleviated in future." He said this included pointing out to their players that "this might not be the way to go" and to look at drink responsibly. And he named GAA stars, such as hurling legend DJ Carey and Derry corner-back Sean Marty Lockhart as well as Sligo All-star Eamonn O'Hara who did not drink at all. "They're all superstars - great heroes who can get on fine with no drink." He added that the country's drink problem was there long before the GAA came along. "We're not going to be a soft target. We're now a proud organisation. We're going to stand up for ourselves". 
