sport gaa
{  
    April 27 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27362591.html }
Sraith an Chontae: Ní raibh an tadh le Piarsaigh na Dromoda in aghaidh An Coirean Dé Satharn seo chaite. Chaill siad an cluiche ar an scór 1-08 in aghaidh 1-09. Seo leanas an foireann: Tadhg O’Súilleabháin, Aodhan O’Súilleabháin 1-0, Donal O’Currain, Donal M. O’Súilleabháin, Donncha O’Súilleabháin, Cian O’Hailiosa, Padraig O’Siochain, Colm O’Concúbhair 0-1, Seán Travers, Caoimhin O’Súilleabháin 0-1, Deaghlan O’Súilleabháin 0-2, Caoimhin O’Laoire 0-1, Seán O’Currain, Ciaran Moul O’Súilleabháin 0-1, Tomás O’Currain 0-2, Ionadaí: Aodhan O’Concúbhair, Séamus M. O’Súilleabháin, Michéal O’Concúbhair. Beidh siad Ag imirt in aghaidh Naomh Mhichíl/An Fhoil Mhór Dé Satharn seo chughainn ar a 7 a clóg, i bPairc an Phiarsaigh. Mná na Dromoda: Bhí turas bliantúil Mná na Dromoda ar suil an deireadh seachtaine seo chaite. Chuaigh ceathair deag mná go dtí Ostán na Sceilge sa Daingean agus baineadar an taithneamh as an turas. Dromid ICA Will be doing a Fun Run/Walk for Breast Cancer Research on Sun 15th May at 7.00 p.m. beginning at Ionad na Dromoda. Sponsor cards available from Mary Jo Fitzpatrick or Helen O’Sullivan. We look forward to having a good turn out at this fundraising walk for this worthy charity. Rúnaí Páirt Aimseartha - Tá an Comhchoiste ag lorg rúnaí páirt aimseartha faoi láthair. Gaeilge líofa scríofa agus labhartha riachtanach, scileanna riomhaireachta agus cuntasaíochta. Ceadúnas glan iomlán tiomána agus córas taistil buntáisteach. Eolas / Iarratas & CV go Oifig an Chomhchoiste Ceann Eich, Cathair Saidhbhín, Co Chiarraí (066) 947 4888 roimh 30/04/2005. Part Time Secretary- Comhchoiste is recruiting a part time secretary at the moment. Fluent Irish, both written and spoken necessary; computer skills and bookkeeping. A full driving licence and transport advantageous. Further info from / Applications including CV to Oifig an Chomhchoiste, Ceann Eich, Cathair Saidhbhín, Co Chiarraí (066) 947 4888 before 30/04/2005. Environmental Talks - Tá fear dárb ainm Dale Threadwell ag déanamh cuairteanna go dtí na scoileanna áitiúla an tseachtain seo, cuireadh faighte aige ag an gComhchoiste chun an obair seo a dhéanamh. Beidh sé ag tabhairt caint san Halla i mBaile ‘n Sceilg oíche Dé Céadaoin ag 8 pm. Dale Threadwell, an Australian ecologist will give a talk on Wednesday night in Ballinskelligs hall on Wildlife Gardens. Dale is visiting the local schools this week. Fáilte roimh gach éinne. COMMUNITY GAMES- For children from Waterville, Dromid & Caherdaniel will take place tomorrow night, Thursday April 28th at 6pm at Waterville Sportsfield. Everybody welcome. NATIONAL ROAD 10K C’SHIPS: Niamh O’Sullivan was back in action after a short break, and finished a very creditable 4th at these c’ships on Sunday last in Bilboa, Co Limerick. Our masters women team of Kate Moyna, Sile Kerley and Julie Hilliard performed well, but were just out of the medals. John Linehan was 4th master overall, with Tom Shanahan and Mike McAuliffe, both of whom ran well, completed the Riocht team. Well done to our athletes, who competed at the Listowel Sports on Sunday last. FIXTURES: On this coming weekend, the Co juvenile T and F c’ships will be on in the Track on Saturday, and the Bank Holiday Monday. On Sunday the Munster junior and u23 T and F c’ships are on in Cork. On Sunday, May 8, the Co senior T and F c’ships will be on in the Track. BOOK CLUB: The next meeting of the Book Club will be 7th May ’05 at 8.00 pm in Tech Amergin, Waterville. The Book for Discussion is ‘Seven Nights Zaragoza’ by Karen Gillece. This book by Karen, whose mother comes from Cahersiveen, is a first novel and was very well received by the critics when it was published recently. Everyone is welcome. Tea Dance There was a Tea Dance in the Community Centre last Sunday afternoon. Music was by Paddy and Seamus. Ryna O’Shea joined in with her fiddle. We had our own local shanachai John Brennan. Sandwiches, scones and tea were served. A great day was had by all. Over 100 people attended coming from the different community centres and active retired groups from Sth Kerry and it was an opportunity for people to renew old friendships and make new friends. It was really nice to see people of all age groups getting up and dancing and having a good time. the committee would like to thank everyone who helped on the day and thank to those who baked and those who sponsored raffle prizes. Comhbhron: Comhbhron le muintir Michael Heavey Fearamaoil a chailleadh le deonai. Ar dheis De go raibh se. Deepest sympathies to the family of Michael Heavey Fermoyle who died recently. May he rest in peace. Ras Oiche: Beidh Ras Oiche Capaill i gCable O Learys ar an 30u la d‚Aibrean ag 9.30 pm. Ta capaill a dhiol faoi lathair don ocaid. St Michaels GAA will hold a Race Night (Horses) in Cable O‚Learys on 30th April at 9.30 pm. Horses can be purchased from club members and supporters. An Chead Fhaoistin: Comhbhairdeas le Rang a Do I Scoil Mhichil a dhein Cead Fhaoistin an tseachtain seo. Beidh an chead comaoine ar an 28ú la Bealtaine. Congratulations to the children of Second Class who made their first Confession this week. First Communion takes place on the 28th May next. Community Support for Older People: There is a new grant available for people who need security lighting (inside) locks and chains for doors designed to strengthen points of entry to the dwellings, window locks, smoke alarms and monitored alarms. If you require any of these contact Community Care for a form. 9479111. All completed application forms must be returned by 17th May 2005. SafePass - Ta cursa SafePass a eagru ag an gComhchoiste go luath - eolas breise o Chliona 9474888. Beidh se tabhachtach go mbeidh an cursa seo deanta ag einne a bheidh ag lorg oibre ar suiomh togala, fiu mar phost samhraidh. Beidh cursa HACCP agus Manual Handling a eagru go luath freisin. Comhchoiste is organising a SafePass course in the near future - this is an excellent opportunity for anyone who is interested in construction work for the summer to get the course done. A HACCP course (Kitchen & Food Hygiene) and Manual Handling course will be organised soon also. Eolas breise from Cliona 9474888. Rúnaí Páirt Aimseartha - Tá an Comhchoiste ag lorg rúnaí páirt aimseartha faoi láthair. Gaeilge líofa scríofa agus labhartha riachtanach, scileanna riomhaireachta agus cuntasaíochta. Ceadúnas glan iomlán tiomána agus córas taistil buntáisteach. Eolas / Iarratas & CV go Oifig an Chomhchoiste Ceann Eich, Cathair Saidhbhín, Co Chiarraí (066) 947 4888 roimh 30/04/2005. Comhchoiste is recruiting a part time secretary at the moment. Fluent Irish, both written and spoken necessary; computer skills and bookkeeping. A full driving licence and transport advantageous. Further info from / Applications including CV to Oifig an Chomhchoiste, Ceann Eich, Cathair Saidhbhín, Co Chiarraí (066) 947 4888 before 30/04/2005. Environmental Talks - Tá fear dárb ainm Dale Threadwell ag déanamh cuairteanna go dtí na scoileanna áitiúla an tseachtain seo, cuireadh faighte aige ag an gComhchoiste chun an obair seo a dhéanamh. Beidh sé ag tabhairt caint san Halla i mBaile ‘n Sceilg oíche Dé Céadaoin ag 8 pm. Dale Threadwell, an Australian ecologist will give a talk on Wednesday night in Ballinskelligs hall on Wildlife Gardens. Dale is visiting the local schools this week. Fáilte roimh gach éinne. Coslia: Beidh an Coslia ins an Halla Pobail, Dun Geagain, Deardaoin 28u la Aibreain ag 11.00 am. Chiropodist: The Chiropodist will be in attendance in the Community Centre, Dun Geagain on Thursday 28th April next from 11.00 am. LOTTO: The Milltown/ Castlemaine lotto draw will be held on Monday, May 2, in the Castle Inn, Castlemaine and the jackpot is ?2400. WHIST: Winners - Bridie Moriarty, Beaufort; Mary Griffin, Killorglin; Bridie Kerrisk, Killarney; Ann Daly, Rossanean; Carmel Daly, Firies; Eileen Fitzgerald, Currans; Frank Brennan, Killorglin; Jimmy Boyle, Castlemaine; Patrick Herlihy, Killarney; Helen Leane, Gortshanafa; Brian Ladden, Knockbrack; Jerry Moriarty, Beaufort. Raffle - Ann Daly, Rossanean; Patrick Herlihy, Killarney; Kathleen Kelly, Firies; Michael McCarthy, Farranfore; Eileen Fitzgerald, Currans. Whist on Tuesday at 9.15pm. UNDER-8 and U-10s: There will be no training this Sunday for our younger players due to the Motor Rally that is on Sunday. Training again on Sunday, May 8th at 12.15p.m. All young players are welcome. Registration can be paid on the day. U-12: Our U-12s sponsored by Beaucon Development had their first game in the County League on Sunday evening last in Beaufort against An Gaeltacht. The first half was a very close affair and teams were level at half-time. The second half saw the taller and stronger Gaeltacht boys get the upper hand and ran out eventual winners on a score-line of 4-10 to 2-7. Team was: David Murphy, David Coffey, Michael J. O'Connor, Cathal Curran, Eoghan O'Neill, Shane O'Sullivan, Darren O'Sullivan, Cormac O'Connor, Padraig Doona, Shane O'Sullivan, Fergal Halissey, Conor Breen, Maura O'Sullivan, David O'Connor, Mairead Foley. Subs: Ronan Murphy, Seamus Noonan, Colin Foley, Jason Roche, David O'Shea, Liam Carey. Their next game is away to Spa fixed for Sunday next but due to the Motor Rally this game may be changed. U-14: Our U-14s sponsored by MF Decorating played 2 games in the Division 1 County League last week. They played Dr. Crokes in Beaufort and played Dingle in Dingle. Though they tried hard in both games Beaufort have found themselves out of their depth in this Division. Panel: Cormac Joy, Cormac Clifford, Gary Coffey, Colin O'Neill, Ronan Ferris, Sean Doona, Tomas Foley, Shane McGillycuddy, James Coffey, Edward O'Sullivan, Stephen Cronin, Sinead O'Connor, Paul Brennan, Kieran Hartnett, Garret Collins, Kevin O'Flynn, Matthew McDonald, Mary Kelliher, Michael Fogart, Donal Rice, Padraig Ashe, Shane Moloney. U-16: Our U-16s sponsored by CRL Oil, Killarney played Keel in the Mid-Kerry Championship in Keel last week. Beaufort ran out winners on a score-line of 3-7 to 0-4 but were made fight all the way for their win. Beaufort had a lot of play but squandered a lot of scoring opportunities. Panel: Gerard Hartnett, Cathal O'Reilly, Padraig Hallissey, Timothy O'Sullivan, Gerard O'Doherty, Shane Coffey, Gary Tangney, Eoghan Doyle, Sean Foley, Anthony Sheehan, Padraig O'Donoghue, Brendan Doyle, Michael O'Connell, Alan Courtney, Colm O'Shea, Adrian O'Connor, Lorca Maher,Kevin Ferris, Daniel Coffey, Ian O'Connor, Niall O'Doherty, Michael Breen Shane Noonan, David Collins. Minors: Our Minors sponsored by Aghadoe Heights Hotel, Killarney took on local rivals Laune Rangers in the Division 1 County League in Killorglin Friday evening. Beaufort, though not playing to their potential led at half time 2-3 to 1-3 with goals from Michael Hallissey and Padraig Doyle and points from Francis Courtney, Cathal O'Reilly and Timothy O'Sullivan. In the second half Beaufort played much better and ran out winners on a score-line of 3-8 to 1-7 with the goal coming from Hallissey and points from Courtney, O'Sullivan (2), Doyle and James O'Reilly. Team: Jason Foley, Giggs O'Sullivan, Dan O'Shea, Tadhg O'Donoghue, Padraig Hartnett, Micheal Dennehy, Cormac Joy, James O'Reilly, Francis Courtney, Colm O'Shea, Jeremiah O'Sullivan, Cathal O'Reilly, Padraig Doyle, Micheal Hallissey, Timothy O'Sullivan. Sub used: Shane Coffey. Their last game is against Kerin O'Rahillys in Beaufort on Friday evening next at 7.15p.m. Seniors: Our Seniors sponsored by MF Decorating travelled to Spa for the 1st Round of Intermediate Championship on Saturday last. This was a very entertaining and close game which went down to the wire with extra-time and the home team won by the minimum of margins in the end. Beaufort welcomed back Dan Doona and this team game a very spirited display and though they lost can learn a lot from this game. The first half saw Beaufort lead at half time on a score-line of 1-5 to 0-5 with points from Dan Doona (3), Damien Breen and James O'Reilly and the goal coming from Edwin Kelliher after the initial shot came back off the bar from Damien Breen. Beaufort lost Sean Fogarty through injury in the first half and saw Micheal Foley coming on. The second half saw the goal being the difference between the teams with both teams kicking 5 points - for Beaufort Dan Doona (3), Edwin Kelliher and Michael Foley scoring, but with 4 minutes into injury time Spa scored the equaliser which led to extra-time. James B. O'Shea was introduced for extra-time and contributed 2 points in the first 10mins with Kelliher again scoring a point and led 0-3 to 0-2 at half-time. Unfortunately Spa scored 2 points without reply in the last 10mins. This was a great team display by Beaufort and hopefully they can keep building on this with a young panel of players. Team: Mike Moriarty, Patch O'Sullivan, Robert Doyle, Jeremiah Doyle, Sean Fogarty, Kevin O'Brien, Micheal Dennehy, Damien Breen, James O'Reilly, Eanna O'Malley, Dan Doona, Padraig O'Sullivan, Edwin Kelliher, Jimmy Doyle, Michael O'Sullivan. Subs used: Michael Foley, James B. O'Shea, Dodo Hartnett, Martin Breen. U-21s: Our U-21s play Keel in Keel on Saturday evening next in the semi-final of the Mid-Kerry Championship. Senior'B's: Our 'B' team have played 2 games in the Mid-Kerry 'B' competition. They lost to Milltown/Castlemaine and beat Laune Rangers. Community Games: The Track and Field events (Races from Tiny Tots upwards, relays long jump, Cycling Race etc.) will be held in the local Sportsfield on Thursday, 12th May. Training for all age groups will be held on Thursday evenings at 5.00p.m. All are welcome. LOTTO: Our Lotto Jackpot of EUR6,800 was not won on Sunday night last. The Draw was held in Beaufort Bar. Numbers drawn were: 6, 11, 18, 21. Consolation Prizes: EUR80 - John Kelliher c/o Derry O'Sullivan. EUR50 each - Michael O'Sullivan, Shanacloon, Tom Grant, Cullina Park and Shane Murphy, Carnahone. The next Draw will be held on Sunday, May 8th for a Jackpot of EUR7,000. PIONEER NEWS: Congratulations to the Beaufort junior pioneer quiz team who won the All-Ireland final which was held in Swinford, Co Mayo on Saturday last. This was once again a great achievement and a great honour for their families and particularly for their centre, which always does great work. The All-Ireland Junior Pioneer Quiz Champs are Sean Foley, Liam Clifford, Jeremy Foley, Shane Costelloe and Saora O’Shea. Well done also to our very young juvenile team who won the Munster final and also competed very successfully at Swinford against tough opposition. This team, which can look forward to great times ahead was Tomás Foley, Susanne O’Sullivan, Edward O’Sullivan, Aisling Prendergast, Mairead Foley. Both teams wish to thank their dedicated coach Mossy Breen who missed the final due to illness and they wish him a speedy recovery. They also wish to thank their road manager John Joe Falvey who made the travel arrangements. PROGRESSIVE 31: The very successful 31 drives continue at the Beaufort Community Centre every Monday night at 9.30. Spots, raffle and refreshments served. COMMUNITY GAMES For children from Waterville, Dromid & Caherdaniel will take place tomorrow night, Thursday April 28th at 6pm at Waterville Sportsfield. Everybody welcome. DEATH; The death has occurred at his home in Florida of Rev Father John F Dede DD Professor of Canon Law. He will be sadly missed by his four sisters, Sr Eileen SP, Sr Mary Margaret SP, Sr Kathleen SP and Sr Patricia OSB, also his brother Fr Paul. Father John enjoyed many visits to his grandmother, Abbie Fitzgerald’s ancestral home in Goulanes, Castlecove, where his cousins Peter Fitzgerald and family still live. BOOK CLUB: The next meeting of the Book Club will be 7th May ’05 at 8.00 pm in Tech Amergin, Waterville. The Book for Discussion is ‘Seven Nights Zaragoza’ by Karen Gillece. This book by Karen, whose mother comes from Cahersiveen, is a first novel and was very well received by the critics when it was published recently. Everyone is welcome. 31 CARD DRIVE: The winners of the 31 card drive at the Blind Pipers on last Tuesday night are as follows. 1st table, Philomena Collins, Lohar, Waterville, Paddy O’Donoghue, Rath, Caherdaniel, winners in Freddies Bar were Bernie Gleeson, Skehanagh, Castlecove, Theresa Clifford, Caherdaniel. SYMPATHY: Sincere sympathy is extended to Joan Rayel and family, on the death of Sean, who died peacefully on Monday, April 18. May he rest in peace. A Sana School of English in Cahersiveen are running courses for state qualified teachers, enabling them to teach English as a foreign language in Summer Schools, May 16 to 21, May 30 to June 4, June 13 to June 18. Contact 066-9472458. SOUTHERN GAELS Fundraising Walk: On Sunday 1st May Southern Gaels Ladies Football Club are holding a fundraising walk from Caherciveen Library to Cuas Crom. The walk starts at 1.30 pm. Sponsorship cards are now being distributed and all support would be greatly appreciated. BOOK CLUB: The next meeting of the Book Club will be May 7, at 8pm, in Tech Amergin, Waterville. The book for discussion is “Seven Nights Zaragoza” by Karen Gillece. This book by Karen, whose mother comes from Cahersiveen, is a first novel and was very well received by the critics when it was published recently. Everyone is welcome. DEATH: The death occurred on April 18, peacefully in the Bon Secour Hospital, Tralee of Sean Rayel, Scart, Castlecove and late of The Mall, Dingle. His remains were removed from his home to The Most Precious Blood Church on Wednesday evening, and burial was on Thursday after 11.30am requiem mass to Coad Cemetery. Deepest sympathy to his wife Joan, children Hilda, Colette, John Muiris, Siobhan and Bridget, grandchildren, sisters in law, nieces, nephews, cousins, friends, and neighbours. Ar dheis Lamh De go raibh a anam, dilis. 31 CARD: Winners last week was Johnny Quilan, Behihane. Cards again Friday night. DERRYNANE HOTEL: Reopened last Friday week, wishing Mary and her staff a very busy season. DEATH: The death has occurred at his home in Florida of Rev Father John F Dede DD Professor of Canon Law. He will be sadly missed by his four sisters, Sr Eileen SP, Sr Mary Margaret SP, Sr Kathleen SP and Sr Patricia OSB, also his brother Fr Paul. Father John enjoyed many visits to his grandmother, Abbie Fitzgerald’s ancestral home in Goulanes, Castlecove, where his cousins Peter Fitzgerald and family still live. TABLE QUIZ; On behalf of the parents association, and teachers of the Fybough National School, we sincerely wish to thank those who participated, and sponsored our recent Quiz night. A great night was had by alll. Thanks to everyone for your generous support. DANCING CLASS; All those who are taking part in the Fleadh Cheoil set dancing,competitions are, asked to attend their class this and every Friday evening. . Annual Mass and 28th AGM was held on Thursday, April 7. The Annual Mass for living and deceased members of the Combined Counties Association was celebrated by the Chaplain, Fr Tom Furlong SMA (Waterford at SMA House Wilton) by kind permission of the SMA order. The readings were in the capable hands of Good Shepherd Sr Jane Murphy and Br Jim Redmond, SMA (Wexford) a founder member of the Association in 1977. Following the Mass at which prayers of the Faithful were offered by the Presdient, Mrs Mary Doody (Kerry), Chairman Mr PJ Hourihan (Longford) and Honorary Secretary Mr John T Madigan (Clare). The chairman Mr PJ Houirgan (Longford), a former Lord Mayor of Cork, he asked for a minute silent prayer for our late Pope John Paul II before formally opening the AGM with the reading of the minutes of the 27th Agm held on April 20. 2004. The President Mrs Mary Doody (Kerry) in her address, welcomed those present, thanked the Chaplain Fr Furlong, SMA (Waterford) for the beautiful Mass he had celebrated, and the SMA order for the facilities again offered to the AGM. She also thanked the members for the honour conferred on her in electing her as President and the executive for their assistance and co-operation during her term as President. She also complimented them on a very successful year. Her address was greeted by sustained applause. The chairman asked the meeting to alter the agenda by allowing him to move his address to after the reports which was readily agreed. The Honorary Secretary Mr John T Madigan (Clare) presented his report, running to four pages, in an abridged form which outlined the main activities of a successsful year. He voiced his thanks for the great team of collectors who manned the Church gates for the Annual Collection in aid of Edel House so well, despite inclement weather. And he also thanked his colleagues on the executive for their courtesy and co-opeation and Mr John Barett of the Orchard Bar for providing meeting facilities during the past year. Mr Tom Halpin (Ardfert, Kerry), Joint Honorary Treasurer presented a detailed account of the financial situation and joined with the honorary secretary’s. Thanks to all the collectors whose efforts resulted in the best Church gate collectioin to date and he expressed his thanks to the generous people of Cork. The Pro Con Quirke thanked the media for the coverage that had been provided up to December 2004, which, he felt, had been beneficial to the work of the Combined Counties Association. The amount of bad news, Tsunami and the recent deaths had taken precedence of what we as an Associatiob would regard as noteworthy, but he felt sure the good work in aid of Edel House woud cotninue to make headlines in the future. Having been involved in one capacity or another for over 25 years, he suggested that somebody might take on the job as Pro, and like the Honorary Secretary and Honorary Treasurer, he recorded his thanks to all who had haleped make the past year, the success it was. He thanked the SMA Order for their support during the past years. The presentation of cheque to Sr Jane then took placve and Sr Jane GSS of Edel House expressed thanks, not only for the cheque but also for the continued psychological support given throughout the past 28 years to all who worked in Edel House. She assured the Assocation of the prayerful gratitude of all associated with the work of Edel House. The chairman Mr PJ Hourigan (Longford) then addressed the meeting and thanked each of his fellow officers for their great commitment to the Association during the year and he praised the members of the Association for their great dedication to the cause of Edel House and the courtesy and co-operation they had shown to him during his year in office. He suggested the formation of sub-committees to organise Golf Classic and Marathon sponsorships. There were no matters arising from the reports which were all received with sustained applause, as were the addresses. The election of officers for the coming year then took place and resulted as follows: President - Mr Sean Carrig (Clare); Chairman - Mr John De Foubert (Cork); Vice chairman - Dr Jim Redmond (Wexford) a founder member in 1977 who had served as Vice-chair; Honorary Secretary - Mr John T Flanagan (Clare); Joint Honorary Treasurers - Mr Tom Halpin (Kerry), Mrs Gemma M Cadogan (Cavan); Pro - Mr Con Quirke (Kerry); Assistant Honorary Secretary/ Pro - Mrs Mary Doody (Kerry). With all present as committee with power to co-opt, despite his protestations, Fr Tom Furlong (Waterford) was unanimously re-elected Chaplain. Bingo. Bingo in CYMS, Killorglin every Sunday at 8.30pm. Bingo in Gaa Pavilion, Glenbeigh every Wednesday at 8.30pm Jackpot 700 in 46 calls. Blood Bank. The Blood Bank will be in the CYMS Killorglin this Wednesday 27th April 5 to 8pm. All blood donors welcome. New Students. Parents of children intending to enroll in Scoil Realt Na Mara, Cromane in September who have not already made contact with the school, please do so at their early convenience Tel. 066 9769331. Tenors. The McCrohan Tenors will perform in the CYMS on Thursday 28th April at 8pm along with Aidan O.Carroll and Guest Soprano Sharon Reidy. A night not to be missed. Alzheimer Tea Day. National Alzheimer Tea Day is on 5th May 2005. If you would like to host a Tea Morning please telephone 1 850 931 931 or write to Alzheimer House, 43 Northumberland Avenue, Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin and they will let you have Tea Party Pack. There are 29 Day Centres in Ireland who deal with Alzheimer Patients and they would like to have more. This is where the proceeds go from the Tea Mornings as well as having a national network of Home Care Support and a Freephone Helpline. They would love your support. Confirmation. Every Blessing for the future to the Cromane School Candidates John Rahilly, Rachel Moroney, Glosha, Patrick Foley, Sorcha Cronin O.Reilly, Cromane Lower and Oceanna O.Shea, Dooks, who were Confirmed in St. James Church, on Monday last. Lotto. The numbers drawn on 24th April in the Cromane Gaa Lotto Draw were 8,9,21,22. There was no winner of the 2,400 Jackpot. Four prizes of 25 each went to:- Jane Casey, Cromane Lr. Ticket sold by Finbar Casey. Maurice Moore, Upper Tullig. Ticket sold by Micheal Joy. Mrs.H. Connell, Gurrane West. Ticket sold by Leens Bar. Kathleen Sullivan, Lonhart. Ticket sold by Paul P.O.Sullivan. Next weeks Jackpot will be 2,500. If you don‚t speculate, you wont accumulate. DEATH: Sincere Sympathy to Hilda and Edward Fitzmartin of Cromane Upper and Ennis on the death of Hildas father Sean Rayel of Castlecove last week and to all members of the Rayel family. May Sean rest in peace. GAA: Cromane Seniors were at home to Tarbert on Sat in Round 1 of the Junior Club Championship. The game was played at a very fast space. Cromane were leading at half time on a score of 2.6 to 1.5. The Tarbert goal just came before the break. In the second half, Cromane went further ahead and were 7 points ahead at one stage but Tarbert closed the lead to four points and when Tarbert scored a goal and two quick points, the sides were level entering the final minutes, when Tarbert scored the winning point. It was a good team performance by Cromane. The final score was Cromane 3.9. Tarbert 2.13 a one point win for Tarbert. This was Cromane‚s second year losing by a point. Cromanes next game is in the Co.League on weekend of May 21st or 22nd against Tarbert in Cromane. Minors. Cromane/Listry Minors were defeated by Kenmare in Round 4 of the Co. League on Fri last in Kenmare. They play Temploenoe, Tuosist, Kilgarvan on this Friday in Listry at 7.30pm Under 16. Cromane/Listry Under 16 had a three point win over Glenbeigh in the Mid Kerry League on Wed. last and as a result, they are now involved in a play off with Milltown/Castlemaine on this Wednesday. Final score was Cromane/Listry 1.10 Glenbeigh/Glencar 1.7. Under 12. Cromane/Listry Under 12s are away to Glenflask in Round 2 of the Co. League on Sunday next at 7pm. EDUCATION OPPORTUNITY: Fetac Communications Level 1 is a basic qualification in English for anyone who left school early. The course covers different ways of gathering and presenting information well and will suit anyone who wants to improve his/her English. This course will be held in Killorglin on Thursday nights term time only over one year. No fee. Contact Jenny 066 9790765 during office hours. COMPUTER TOKENS: Please keep collecting the Tesco computer tokens for Cromane N.S. and Kiltallagh N.S. Tralee Rd. Castlemaine. They will be able to get valuable computer equipment with the tokens. They thank all those who have donated them to date. ST MICHAELS GRAVEYARD: Complaints have been made by many people of the untidiness of St Michaels. Rubble and stones and wreaths are strewn around the graves. We would ask people please to take away wreaths that need to be removed and also the plastic bottles etc which are scattered around. PARENT AND TODDLER GROUP: Every Wednesday morning 10.30 to 12.00, Currow Comm Ctr. All welcome. LADIES FOOTBALL: Monday, May 2 is the date for their sponsored 8k walk, in aid of club funds. ALZHEIMERS TEA DAY: Caroline Hickey, Boherbee will host a tea day for Alzheimers on Friday, May 6 from 10am to 12 noon, and from 7pm to 10pm. ARDFERT RETREAT: A day of prayer for parishioners of Killeentierna is arranged for Sunday, May 15. Please give your name to Humphrey or any member of the Legion of Mary. CORK COLLEGE OF COMMERCE: Is holding an open evening on this Wednesday, April 27 from 6.30pm to 8.30pm. The main feature will be a careers exhibition. Phone 0214222100 for further info, Cork College of Commerce, Morrisons Island, Cork. DIOCESAN COLLECTION: Next weekend for Kerry Mission Outreach. TRA NA GCEIST: Bilingual table quiz, in the Brown Flesk Inn, on April 28 at 9pm. Athletic training in Riocht Track Castleisland for u9s to 14s, 7 to 9pm every Wednesday and Friday. YEAR OF THE EUCHARIST: Any Minister of the Eucharist, who wishes to bring Holy Communion to the sick or housebound after Sunday mass, please arrange to do so with Fr Sugrue. MASSES: Cemetery masses in May, May 10, St Michaels, May 17, Old Ardcrone, May 24, Kilsarcon. Parishioners are encouraged to tidy up their family graves, in preparation for these masses. INTERMEDIATE C’SHIP: Currow v St M/Foilmore match never took place, due to non appearance of referee. It was very unfair to both teams, especially St M/Foilmore, who had to travel a round trip of 100 miles. The game will have to be refixed for Currow at a date and time to be agreed. MINOR LEAGUE: The minor team travelled to Ballylongford last Friday, having full points to date. Currows performance dropped from previous outings, and once again they paid the price for some very poor shooting up front. In the end they were defeated by a single pt 2-4 to 0-9. At Coiste na Nog level all the teams had mixed luck. The u16 team were defeated by Desmonds while they got a w/o from Cordal. A deflated u14 team, were beaten by Castlegregory and the u12 team were beaten in the first Rd of the Co league by Listry/Cromane. The junior team were also beaten by Rathmore in the E K League on Tuesday. The minor team play Legion in the final Rd of the Co league at home on Friday evening. They need a win here to be sure of qualifying for the final stages of the competition. LOTTO: There was no winner of the jackpot of ?6,300 drawn at the Riverside Inn, Currans on Sunday night. The numbers drawn were 4, 11, 14, and 25. The four consolation prize winners were Dora Broderick, College Rd, Castleisland, Con Reidy, Meen, Knocknagoshel, Eleanor Cronin, Dicksgrove, Currow and Tom Brosnan, Inchebee, Farranfore. The next draw will be held in the Brown Flesk Inn, Currow on Sunday night, May 29, when the jackpot will be ?6,400. U12 CO LEAGUE: Dr Crokes 3-15, Laune Rangers 2-10. We had two u12 teams in action last Sunday evening, our first team in Killorglin, and the game was played in their aptly named playing grounds of Cluain (meadow). The sides were level 1-3 to our six points at the break, our side put in a great 2nd half display. Anthony Keogh at midfield was wining a lot of ball as was Brian O Seandun in the forwards. Gavin O’Se his cousin got a great goal. David Healy, grandson of Sliabh Luachra musician, Johnny O’Leary RIP got another goal and Derek Maye also goaled. Our 2nd team were beaten 3-8 to 2-1 away to Gneeveguilla. Michael Sexton and Darragh O’Keeffe were our goal scorers. This Sunday evening, they play Churchill away at 7pm, while our first team have a home game against Austin Stacks. MINOR TEAM: Our minors also take on Austin Stacks this Friday evening at 7.30pm in our own pitch. CO HURLING LEAGUE: We play St Brendans Ardfert away this Wednesday at 8pm, and home the following May 4, to Kilmoyley also at 8pm. E KERRY U21 SEMI FINAL REPLAY: Gneeveguilla 2-14, Dr Crokes 3-10. Full report in sports section. JUNIOR LEAGUE; On Tuesday, May 3 at 7.30pm away to Firies. LOTTO: Numbers 4, 9, 15, 23. Sunday, April 24, jackpot ?3,000. Not won. Match 3 13 x ?40. Brendan Hartnett, c/o Lyno, Donie Lyne 33096. Collette Hunt c/o Lyno, Frank Duggan c/o Lyno, Donal Tucker, 82 Woodlawn Park, Padraigh O’Sullivan, Beaufort Bar, Malacky Walsh, Knockeenduff, Joe Jones c/o PO. Michael McCarthy, c/o Chris O’Connor. Joe Jameson 08793523712. John O’Meara 0872901205 x2, Theresa O’Mahony, Tulligbeg, Killorglin. Jackpot, Monday, May 2n, ?3,300. Draw Stretford End. Coiste na nOg Dr Crokes U-16 Team: East Kerry Championship semi-final versus Spa will take place in Spa on Wednesday 27 April at 7.pm. Your support would be greatly appreciated. U-14 Team - Dr Crokes 7-9, Dingle 2-8. Our U-14 team had another great win in the county league and just missed out on qualification for the Div 1 semi-finals. This was a great team performance and they played some fantastic football throughout. We led by 2-5 to 0-3 at half-time but were rocked by a quick goal and a point from Dingle within a minute of the restart. The team showed great character and responded with two quick goals and from then on the result was never in doubt. Alex O’Sullivan hit three goals, Keith O’Leary and Chris Brady were always a menace to Dingle and Timmy O’Donoghue led the forwards very well. The backs were outstanding once again with Sean Coppinger, Kieran Ward and Keith Buckley prominent. The team competed very well in Feile on Saturday but lost their three games by very narrow margins. U-12 - County League Rd 1 Team 1 Dr Crokes 3-15, Laune Rangers 2-10. Team 2 Dr Crokes 2-1, Gneeveguilla 3-8. Next Games on Sunday 01 May at 7.pm. Team 1 v Austin Stacks at Lewis Rd. Team 2 v Churchill away. FIRIES played Lispole in the first round of the Co junior c’ship in the Fitzgerald Stadium on Saturday night. Lispole raced into a 5 pt to 1pt lead, after 15 mins. Con O’Connor scored for Firies with a 65 yards free. Points by Tadhg O’Keeffe and Neil Foley (3) had the sides level at half time. At the start of the 2nd half, Lispole got 4 pts and Neil Brendan got a point from a free. A good move by Firies mid way through the half, ended with a well taken goal by Ger Murphy. Con O’Connor and Neil Foley 2 frees, and a Lispole point in the 20th min, gave Firies a 2 pt win, 1-9 to 0-10. Jer O’Sullivan made some very good saves, and Alan Looney at full back gave a display that should get him a all up to the Co minor panel. Overall it was an outstanding display by Firies. Team J O’Sullivan, B Spring, A Looney, D Spring, D O’Connell, N McCarthy, T Foley, C O’Connor O’Connell, T O’Keeffe, P Teahan, M Driver, J O’Sullivan, N Foley, G Murphy. Subs D O’Donoghue, T Fitzgerald, G O’Sullivan, E Foley. Firies next outing is away to Na Gaeil on w/e May 22. Firies B drew with Spa in Spa in the E K Div 1 junior league and play Dr Crokes on May 3. Score 2-4 to 0-10. V Horgan and B O’Sullivan got the goals. The Co junior league starts Friday, May 6. MINORS: The minors beat Keel by a point on Friday night last. They were losing by a point at half time. u16s Lost to Glenflesk last week, but are still involved in the league after two draws. u14s, Firies 7-14, Listry/Cromane 2-7. P Murphy, T and S Reidy, J and D Hayes, C O’Mahony, P Lynch, S Foley, J Sherwood, D Browne, S O’Mahony, E O’Mahony, E Kerrisk, S Hoctor, D O’Sullivan, M O’Leary, D Kennedy, S Casey, S Falvey, J Kerins. LOTTO: Numbers 1, 5, 27. No jackpot winner. ?30 winners Andrew Moynihan, Boulicullane, John O’Connor, Batterfield, Claire Galvin, Swinemount, Brendan O’Sullivan, Ballyhar, Claire O’Callaghan, Farranfore. ?1,400 next week in Hendersons. MINI SEVENS: The E Kerry GAA mini sevens NS girls competition took place on April 20 at Fitzgerald Stadium. 17 teams entered, with Firies NS being placed in group 5, along with Loughquittane and Barraduff. The Firies girls topped the group, winning both of their matches. In the semi final, they met the girls from Kilcummins NS and after a great game, the Firies girls were through to the final. Loretto had qualified from the other semi final. Firies drew with them just before the final whistle. In extra time, the Firies girls kicked over 2 pts, and won. Panel S O’Connor, M O’Connor, K O’Connor, R Flynn, B Ni Mhurchu, S Hoctor, N Gleeson, G O’Mahony, K Nagle, C Hickey, S Farelly, M Lyne and A Doyle. ENROLMENT: Parents/guardians wishing to enrol their children, for the School year 2005/06 in Firies NS may obtain enrolment forms, at the playschool, at the school, by phoning the School at 9764496. Completed enrolment forms should be returned to the School on or before April 29, 2005. You will be invited to visit the School, along with your child, on a date to be decided in June. ATHLETICS: Training in Farranfore on Thursday 6.30 to 7.30. Co juvenile sports at Castleisland Track on Saturday. Javelin, discus at 11am, other events at 12 noon, u9s, 10s at 4pm. Part 2 of Co juvenile c’ships on Monday, walks, hammer at 11am, all other events at 12 noon. DEATHS: The death has taken place of Margaret Cronin, nee Prendergast, Boulicullane. The removal was from Flynns Funeral Home to Firies Church and after requiem mass on Wednesday to Killeentierna Cemetery. The death has taken place of John Joe O’Donnell, Waterford and Village Green, Firies. Sympathy is extended to their families, relatives and friends. WHIST: Prizewinners, D Boyd, C Daly, B Cooper, B Kerrisk, J Murphy, M Brennan, H O’Connor, J Moriarty, E Fitzgerald, D Kissane, A Moriarty, N Murphy, P Herlihy, K Fitzgerald, K Hannifin, A Hickey. ROSARY: The rosary will be recited every evening during the month of May at Farranfore grotto, beginning this Sunday evening, May 1 at 7pm. BASKETBALL TOWN LEAGUE: Firies NS won the final of the Div A town league in the 3rd and 4th class girls section, in the Town hall on Friday evening. They defeated Loreto NS by 9 baskets with a score of 18, 9. Team S Hoctor, G O’Mahony, N Gleeson, B Kerrisk, S Affonso, O Gleeson, N O’Sullivan, K Grooves, A O’Connor, N Clifford, S Fitzgerald. Farranfore NS won the 3rd and 4th class boys final of the Town League Div B. COMMUNITY GAMES: Swimming - Congratulations to our swimmers on performing very well at the County Swimming Competition on Saturday. James O’Donoghue had a very strong swim to win gold in U10 backstroke. Sarah Lynch won silver in a very close race in the U14 breast stroke. Also well done to Carmel Kate Kelliher and Sean Affonso who competed. Tag Rugby Boys and Girls U11 (Over 8) - Training will commence on Friday, April 19, from 5-6pm, at Farranfore field. County events - Girls soccer U15 on Sunday, May 1, and Gaelic football mixed U10 on Monday, May 2. Best of luck to our teams. FOSSA LOTTO 7, 11, 12 and 13. No Jackpot Winner Consolation Prizes 4 x ?50 Niamh Spillane, Lackabane, Lily Terry, Curragh, Aghadoe, Tim Cronin, Crohane, Fossa, Stephen O’Shea, C/o Tim Cronin 4 x ?25 Kevin Myers, Barleymount, Neil O’Meara, Crohane, Fossa, Bridget Harvey, Fossa and Oran & Eabha Dwyer. This Weeks Jackpot ?3,950 FOSSA COMMUNITY ALERT has recently formed with a launch planned for September. The next meeting will take place at the GAA clubhouse on Wednesday, May 4th at 8.30pm. For this venture to be successful it is essential that each district of the parish be represented. FOSSA COMMUNITY GAMES: Swimming: A great day for Fossa in Tralee on Saturday last when our swimmers brought home a total of 13 medals and 1 certificate. It was a great reward for the hours of work put in by Fiona Hallissey NT, Cliona and Niamh O’Sullivan and Mary O’Leary over the past number of weeks. SWIMMERS: The following swimmers represented our parish with pride: Boys; Nicholas Doyle, Micky O’Shea, Thagh O’Shea, Evan O’Keeffe, Shane Hennigan, Daniel Coffey, Colm Walsh. Girls; Niamh O’Sullivan, Carol O’Connell, Brid Kissane, Sarah Cahill, Sophie Debler, Siobhan Murphy, Laura Kennely, Rachel Cronin, Laurna Doherty, Amy Cahill, Karen O’Leary, Megan Cronin, Emily Cahill, Katie Hennigan, Sarah Ostellho, Georgina O’Shea, Claudia Ostellho, Sinead Sheehan. All these and those parents who accompanied them created a great club spirit as they cheered on our participants to victory. Gold medals went to Niamh O’Sullivan(Knockasarnett), Girls Freestyle under 16: and Carol O’Connell (Knoppoge), Girls Breaststroke Under 12: and both girls now qualify for Mosney in August. Well done to both. Silver Medals were won by Sarah Cahill (Knoppoge), Girls Breaststroke Under 12, and the Boys Under 13 squad of Micky O’Shea( Dromin), Thagh O’Shea (Dromin), Shane Hennigan (Lackabane), Daniel Coffey (Dromin) and Evan OKeeffe (Lackabane). Bronze Medals went to the Girls Under 13 Squad of Carol O’Connell, Sarah Cahill, Sophie Debler (Barley mount), Laura Kennelly (Dromin) and Brid Kissane (Pallas) Certificate: Georgina O’Shea (Dromin), Girls Freestyle Under 8. Girls Under 15 Soccer: Mastergeeha Soccer pitch is the venue, and 11.00am is the time on Sunday next for the County Girls Under 15 Soccer competition. Hopefully we will have some more good news to report next week. Athletics: Training continues every Friday at the Old Sportsfield from 6.30pm to 7.30pm. We particularly invite children from the Parish who attend school in Killarney eg (residents of Bellview Woods) to come along, remember Fossa is your Community Games Area. Community Games Football blitz . Venue not known at the time of going to press. Monday next (bank hol. ) time 11 a.m. TABLE QUIZ: Eddie Sheehy will travel to Kenya as a volunteer teacher to teach underprivileged students in a poor rural village school outside the capital Nairobi on 26th June. The school receives no state funding and so money has to be raised by the parish or by voluntary donations. To assist in his fundraising Eddie is holding a table quiz in Scott’s Hotel on Wednesday 27th April at 9pm.. All money raised will be donated to the running of the school FOSSA HISTORY: Many people feel it is high time that a comprehensive history of our Parish was compiled and printed in book form. A group of us have got together recently to set about doing same and we would like more of you to come and join us.This would be from earliest times in Fossa from the times of McCarthy M r, to the Elizabethan conquest, to the era of the Landlords associated with Fossa such as the Earl of Kenmare, Lord Headley of Aghadoe, the Herbert family, as well as Lord Ventry who owned Barleymount at one stage. Any information that people might have on the above as well as any information on the various families who inhabited our little Parish down through the centuries would be most welcome. We would hope to include facts on all aspects of life in Fossa -people, -places, -historical details, -sporting activities, -cultural items, -church history, -old photographs etc. If you have any old stories or information about life in Fossa stories of Parish activities please contact any of the following Michael Doyle 064 31459, Gene Moriarty 064 32200, Mick Spillane 064 31320, or Kieran Coffey 064 33002 If you need any item included in these notes please contact local correspondant Michelle Cooper Galvin 064 37707 or email coopergalvin@eircom.net FOSSA COMMUNITY PRE-SCHOOL will be holding a fundraising Ceili in the Castlerosse Hotel on this Friday night 29th April. Music By Various Artists. Admission ?7.50. Spot Prizes & Refreshments. Doors open at 9pm. Come along and enjoy a traditional night of Rince, Ceol & Craic. Glen Parent and Toddler Group meets every Tuesday from 11am - 12:30 in the Glen Day Care Centre. Ta NaÌonra an Ghleanna oscailte gach la o 8:45 - 5:30 Seisiun naÌonra o 8:45 - 12:30 agus o 12:30 - 3:00 SeirbhÌs tarÈis Scoile oscilte o 3:00 - 5:30 Thuilleadh eolas Û BrÌd 087 9761507 no Helen 087 2173233 SAFE PASS: Ta cursa SafePass eagraithe ag an gComhchoiste don cEadaoin 4u Bealtaine - Beidh an cursa ar siuil in Ionad na Dromoda i gCillÌn Liath ar a 9 a chlog ar a bpointe - eolas breise o ChlÌona 9474888. Beidh se tabhachtach go mbeidh an cursa seo deanta ag einne a bheidh ag lorg oibre ar suÌomh tuga la, fiu mar phost samhraidh. Beidh cursa HACCP agus Manual Handling a eagru go luath freisin. Comhchoiste has organised a SafePass course for Wed 4th May - the course will take place in the Dromid Community center in Killinleagh at 9AM sharp - this is an excellent opportunity for anyone who is interested in construction workfor the summer to get the course done. A HACCP course (Kitchen & Food Hygiene) and Manual Handling course will be organised soon also. Eolas breise from Cliona 9474888. RunaÌ Pairt Aimseartha - Ta an Comhchoiste ag lorg rnaÌ pairt aimseartha faoi lathair. Gaeilge lÌofa scrÌofa agus labhartha riachtanach, scileanna riomhaireachta agus cuntasaÌochta. Ceadnas glan iomlan tiomana agus curas taistil bunta isteach. Eolas / Iarratas & CV go Oifig an Chomhchoiste Ceann Eich, Cathair SaidhbhÌn, Co ChiarraÌ (066) 947 4888 roimh 30/04/2005. Comhchoiste is recruiting a part time secretary at the moment. Fluent Irish, both written and spoken necessary; computer skills and bookkeeping. A full driving licence and transport advantageous. Further info from / Applications including CV to Oifig an Chomhchoiste, Ceann Eich, Cathair SaidhbhÌn, Co ChiarraÌ (066) 947 4888 before 30/04/2005. Environmental Talks - Ta fear darb ainm Dale Threadwell ag dÈanamh cuairteanna go dtÌ na scoileanna aitila an tseachtain seo, cuireadh faighte aige ag an gComhchoiste chun an obair seo a dhÈanamh. Beidh se ag tabhairt caint san Halla i mBaile ‘n Sceilg oÌche de CÈadaoin ag 8 pm. Dale Threadwell, an Australian ecologist will give a talk on Wednesday night in Ballinskelligs hall on Wildlife Gardens. Dale is visiting the local schools this week. Failte roimh gach Èinne. Drag Hunts: The Glen Beagle Club Annual drag hunts will take place in the Glen next weekend. The puppy drag will take place on saturday evening starting at 6:30pm sharp. The main drag hunt will be run on sunday at 3:30pm with the maiden drag commencing ten minutes later. The drags will be run over the usual scenic course of valley and mountain and a lage entry of dogs is expected with dogs from all South Kerry Clubs, Kenmare and Cork participating. This testing course should show who the best dogs are. A great weekend’s racing promised - Not To Be Missed!! - Prizes will be presented in Fisnerman Bar Pormagee on Sunday Night. The members of the Glen Beagle Club would like to wish a speedy recovery to Mike Neill who is recovering from illness in Cork Hospital. Mike put a huge amount of work in the organising of the Drag Hunt since they began a number of years ago and was one of the main driving forces behind it. Hope you will be back with us again shortly. WHIST: Winners ladies 1st Hanna Keating, The Glen, 2nd Anne O’Keeffe, Valentia, 3rd Mary Casey, Portmagee. Gents 1st Cait O’Shea, Portmagee, Mary Brennan, the Glen, Mary Riordan, The Glen. Lowest score Noreen Divane. Raffle 1st Peggy Brennan, 2nd John O’Shea. WEDDING: Congrats to Christopher O’Sullivan, Faha, and Anne Marie Casey, Portmagee who got married in Portmagee Church last Saturday. Reception was held in the Killarney Heights Hotel. COMMUNITY ALERT: Any elderly person, wishing to avail of the grants for security lighting, etc should fill up the application form immediately. Contact Day Care Centre for forms. All completed forms must be returned by May 17. S KERRY LEAGUE: St Michaels/Foilmore play Dromid Pearses in Dromid at 6.30pm on Saturday, April 30. A large group of supporters travelled to Keel last weekend and they weren’t disappointed. This Co Junior C’ship game had all the ingredients of such encounters of the past. It was a close and competitive with both sides giving their best. This resulted in deadlock at HT on a score of 4pts each, with D O’Sullivan,3, and C Griffin, 1, on the mark for Glenbeigh/Glencar. Keel hit the front early in the 2nd half with 2pts only to be rocked by a cracking goal from R O’Connor. Again Keel hit the front with two more pts but up stepped C O’Sullivan to slot home a second goal. At this stage the crowd were on their feet in the stand with Keel again closing the gap with a pt. D O’Sullivan had the final say with a pt after Keel had failed to convert two scorable frees. The backs were solid again this week with F Griffin & J Hoare and K Donovan in outstanding form. R O’Connor was back to his best at mid-field while D O’Sullivan & M Griffin were effective up front. Final score 2-5, to 9pts. The B team got a lesson in football from a strong Milltown/C’maine outfit last week. Only for Ger O’Sullivan’s outstanding performance the scoreline would have been much worse. T Walsh, T Healy, S Caulfield & P Griffin also tried hard. Victories in the two remaining games are now required for qualification to be achieved. The minors were defeated by Tuosist/ Kilgarvan/Templenoe on Friday last. Please return membership forms without delay as membership closes on April 30th. Any new members should contact Ger O’Connor. Minors Glenbeigh/Glencar “v” St Michael’s/Foilmore on Friday April 29th @ 7.30pm in Glenbeigh Mid-Kerry B C’ship Glenbeigh/Glencar “v” Laune Rangers on Tue 3rd May in Killorglin. Training on Wed & Fri @ 8pm. The club will hold a fundraising night at the dogs on Sat July 9th. Tickets available shortly. COMMUNITY GAMES: Congratulations to the boys u15 handball team who won silver medals in the Community Games county finals, which were held at the Tralee Sports Centre on Saturday, April 23. The team members were Rory O’Connor, Jason McKenna, Colin McGillicuddy and Joseph Sheehan. Well done boys. Also a special word of thanks to Christy Moriarty who trained the team and to the parents and supporters who travelled to Tralee on the day. Also well done to the Cathal Griffin and Conor Griffin who won medals at the Special Swim Event at the Tralee Sports Centre on Saturday, April 23. Great swimming boys. The U10 mixed football takes place in Dr Crokes pitch on Monday, May 2, at 11am. All boys and girls who entered their names for this competition are asked to be at the Beaufort pitch by 10.30am sharp. Any boys or girls who do not have a lift are asked to contact Anne at (066) 9768366 who will try to arrange a lift for them. Of course all parents are encouraged to support their children on the day and this would be greatly appreciated. See you there boys and girls and good luck. BINGO: Don’t forget bingo each Wednesday at 8.30pm, in the GAA Pavilion, Glenbeigh. HANDBALL CLUB: The Jason McKenna, Cumann na mBunscoil Handball Competition which was to be played at Croke Park Handball Court on Saturday was postponed and will be played at a later date. Juveniles - Glenbeigh Handball Club season came to conclusion on Friday night with the presentation of trophies and medals to players for competitions the Club organised during the handball season. The Club would like to thank parents and players for their help and co-operation during the year. Sponsorship - Glenbeigh Handball Club would most sincerely like to thank Christy and Bernadette Burke, Faha, Glenbeigh for their kind sponsorship of juvenile handball trophies. Collection - The Handball Club would like to thank everyone for supporting the Club’s Annual Church Gate collection last weekend. LOTTO: Lotto Draw held at The Corner House, Baraduff on Sunday the 24/4/05. Jackpot ?2,800 Numbers: 2, 3, 10, 14 – No Winner. ?50 Draw: Jill Brosnan, Killarney – Seller Mike Nash, Jack Cronin, Killarney, Kitty Foley, Fires & Tim Coakley, Clonakilty. Next Lotto Draw to be held @ Loo Bridge on Sunday the 8/5/05, Jackpot ?3,000. Yearly Lotto subscriptions - Yearly Lotto subscriptions have been posted to your homes. Our fortnightly draw provides continuous income to the club and offers valuable prizes to subscribers. The jackpot starts at ?2,000 and if not won rises by ?200 each draw. Annual tickets are available at ?50, where you choose 4 numbers for the year and, include one free draw. Contact Jimmy Kelly or Jimmy O’Shea or any club officer in order to subscribe. Intermediate County Championship - Our seniors had the tough assignment of an away trip to Division 1 Team St Mary’s Caherciveen, on Sat nite. Glenflesk had a brisk start and were awarded a free within 30secs which was not converted and which told the story for the remainder of the game. Chances were few for Glenflesk throughout the match with our forwards finding possession very hard to come by. After 3mins Brian Sheehan kicked over a free for the fist score of the game, which Glenflesk responded with a free, kicked over by Damien McCarthy. On 6 mins St Mary’s broke down a Glenflesk attack and Rory Keating kicked over for St Mary’s. Another free by Brian Sheehan on 10mins, with Seamus Moynihan adding a score on 13mins. Ten mins went through the first half without either team scoring. Possession was predominantly with St Mary’s who failed to put away many scoring chances. The score at Half Time was St Mary’s 0.5 Glenflesk 0.3. Glenflesk would have been the happier at half time with St Mary’s having most of the play but their inability to covert scores was keeping Glenflesk in the game. The second half started with St Mary’s pressing hard and could have added a goal to their tally only for Gerry Kennedy clearing the ball from the goal line. St Mary’s kicked over 3 unanswered points on 33, 34, & 37mins before on 41, 42 & 48 mins D McCarthy got Glenflesk within 2 points of the home side. That was as close as we were to get with the home side adding 2 further points, with the score at Full Time St Mary’s 0.10 Glenflesk 0.6 Teams & Scorers: Glenflesk; Mike Guerin, Paul Favier, Gerry Kennedy, Ml O’Donoghue, Padraig O’Donovan, John C O’Donoghue, Ollie Favier (1pt), Eric O’Donoghue, Damien McCarthy (3pts 2 frees), Denis Dennehy, Seamus Moynihan (1pt), D J O’Donoghue, Conor Sullivan, John B O’Donoghue (1pt), Enda Favier. St Mary’s; Darren Corcoran, Mike T O’Connor, John M Clifford, Gearoid O’Driscoll, Stephen Curran, Paul O’Mahony, John A O’Sullivan, Niall O’Driscoll, James Fitzgerald (1pt), Ray Keane, John Quirke (1pt), Brian Sheehan (5 pts 2)frees, Daniel O’Sullivan (1pt), Rory Keating (2pts), Austin Constable. Subs; Adam Quirke, Liam Corcoran. East Kerry Senior League - This Final was fixed to be played on the Bank Holiday Weekend, Friday the 29th of April @ 7.30pm at the Fitzgerald Stadium against Kilcummin. However this fixture is currently under review at time of going to press. Details of change will be advertised locally. East Kerry Board Meeting - Will be held at the Killarney Heights Hotel on Wed nite the 27/4/05 @ 9pm. Club Executive Meeting - Will be held after Senior training on Thursday the 28/4/05 @ 9pm in respect of the Club’s Parish Collection, which will be held over the Bank Holiday Weekend. Your support will be welcomed over the weekend in order for us to attend all gate collection points. Club Collection - Club Parish Collection will take place over the Bank Holiday Weekend on Saturday the 30th of April and Sunday the 1st of May in the Killarney Urban area. East Kerry Junior League – Division 2 - We are grouped against Legion, Kilcummin, Listry & Fossa. Our last fixture against Listry was called off as Listry has pulled out of this competition. Round 3 away to Legion on Tuesday the 3/5/05 @ 7.30pm and Round 4 at home to Kilcummin on Tuesday the 10/5/05 @ 7.30pm Minor County League 2005 - Our Minors were away to Valentia on Friday where they defeated Valentia; 3.12 to 0.11, this game was played in Cromane. We are away to Renard on Friday the 29/5/05 at Beaufort @ 7.30pm Under 16 2005 - Under 16’s East Kerry Division 2, play Gneeveguilla at home on Wednesday the 27/4/05 @ 7pm. Under 14 County League 2005 - Our under 14’s were away to Currow on Monday the 25/4/05, they were defeated by a very strong Currow side. Under 12 County League 2005 - We played Rathmore on Sunday the 24/4/05 and had a great victory at home with the final score Glenflesk 3.09 to Rathmore 1.09. We are grouped with Ballymac, Currow, Cromane/Listry, Milltown/Castlemaine, and Rathmore. We play Cromane/Listry on Wed the 27/4/05 at 7pm. Note: Parents should check with team trainers to verify all underage fixtures. Coiste nOg - Underage Training - Training for Under Age continues on Friday nights for Boys Under 8 @ 6pm and Boys Under 10 @ 7pm. Girls training on Friday night @ 6.30pm to 7.30pm. Scor Na Bpaisti - The County Final is being held at the Gleneagle Hotel on Sunday May the 8th Kerry Coaching & Games Development Committee - On Friday 22nd of April venue Fires GAA Grounds at 7pm (Fun Games/Go Games for Family) and Monday the 9th of May at Dr Crokes GAA Grounds at 7pm (Practical Drills (Advanced Drills) for Football). Course duration 2 hours. Any persons involved with our underage teams are invited to attend theses courses. The club will refund course Fee of ?10. If you have any news which you wish to be published on our notes you can contact Mike Nash Club PRO @ 064 54929, or e-mail to myknash@eircom.net EK U21 SEMI-FINAL REPLAY: Gneeveguilla 2-14, Dr Crokes 3-10. Gneeveguilla advanced to the EK final after another thriller against an excellent Dr Crokes side. See EK GAA notes in the sports section for full match report. Check locally for date of final v Rathmore. Intermediate championship - Ballymacelligott 1-12, Gneeveguilla 0-9. Gneeveguilla made their exit from this competition in the first round on Saturday. Ballymac led 0-7 to 0-3 at half-time and a goal with 15 minutes remaining killed off any hopes of a Gneeveguilla comeback. Team: G Cremin, B Sheehan, E Lawlor, M Murphy, A O’Leary, M Moynihan, D O’Connor, F McAuliffe, J Brosnan, D O’Connor (0-1), M Murphy (0-2), T Sheehan, D O’Sullivan (0-4), R McAuliffe (0-2), DJ O’Connor. Subs: A Moynihan, T Gleeson, G Moynihan, T Murphy. Fixture: Gneeveguilla v St Pats on May 21/22 in Round 5 of the county league. B TEAM: Gneeveguilla were defeated by Dr Crokes in round 2 of the EKJL. Round 3 was fixed for Tuesday evening of this week v Firies. MINORS: The final round of the county league is fixed for Friday, April 29, Gneeveguilla v Ballymac at 7.30pm. U16: Glenflesk v Gneeveguilla this Wednesday evening, April 27, in the Div 2 EK semi-final. Venue: Glenflesk. U14 CO LEAGUE: Gneeveguilla defeated Knocknagoshel in Round 5. Round 6 is on May 9, away to Ardfert. U12 CO LEAGUE: Ballyheigue v Gneeveguilla in Round 2 on Sunday, May 1, at 7pm. GAA LOTTO: There was no jackpot winner. The numbers drawn were 7, 11, 12, 16. Five ?40 each to Timmy o’Keefe, Bonard; Anthony Breen, Beaufort; Lil O’Keefe, Bonard; Denis Keane, Grotto View, Gneeveguilla; Yvonne O’Brien, c/o Jimmy O’Brien’s Bar. Entered for weekend away draw. Mike Moriarty, c/o Petros Bar. Jackpot this Sunday will be ?2600. NO winner of our weekly lotto jackpot on April 22. Numbers 2, 10, 14, 20. ?50 each Dinny Donnelly, Coom, Tess Vaughan, Lisheen. ?30 each Orla O’Riordan, Leam, Tim Murphy, Millstreet, Elaine Moriarty, Causeway. No bonus winner, 2, 11, 23, 28. Jackpot, Friday 30, ?5,800. Bonus ?1,000. The club wish to thank its sellers and we need new sellers. Well done to all who travelled to Listowel sports last Sunday. Congrats to Tony Buckley, our only medal winner at Bilboa in the National 10k.A fine crowd travelled in the bus and a great day was had by all. Next week end is one of the busiest of the whole year. Co Juv c’ships on Saturday and Sunday, Munster Junior and u13 on Sunday. Our School sports is now fixed for May 6, 5pm. Community games is the previous night in Gneeveguilla. Note you must compete in School sports, to get to Castleisland on May 28. Same goes for community games. AT the executive meeting of the Irish Countrywomen’s Association, held on April 14, delegates supported the INO in their campaign for solidarity with patients on trolleys and the early alleviation of their suffering. Anne Murray ICA National President called on ICA members to join in the lunchtime protests being held and said it was unacceptable that patients should have to put up with these conditions, at a time when they were most vulnerable and called on the Minister for Health to implement without delay the delivery of additional bed capacity, promised in the Government Health Strategy. The mini marathon takes place on May 8. Proceeds in aid of breast cancer research. Sponsorship cards etc will be at your Guilds, or contact Ina Mulhall 0667123223 or Celia Cooke 0667123709. Make and model May 5. A prize for each category. There is also prizes for best child model, best adult model and best compere. The craft classes are this weekend, April 30 at the Earl of Desmond Tralee. Contact Bridie at 0667139175 re numbers attending. FEDERATION CUP FOR ARTS 2005: Theme photography. Subject family pet or farm animal size minimum 5” by 4. Maximum 8 b 10. Post your entry in a rigid envelope and include a stamped self addressed envelope for return. Include your name, address, guild federation and tel no. Entry fee ?5. Closing date, Sept 23, to National contest sect, Anna Byrne, 17 Blackheath Ave, Clontarf, Dublin 3. This year the competition will be run on 3 categories, colour, black/white, digital. Please specify category entered. It is very important to include sufficient return postage, otherwise we cannot send back your entry. KEEL GAA: Keel played Glenbeigh at home in the Junior Championship last Saturday evening and in a closely fought encounter it was the visitors who came out on top on the scoreline of 2-05 to 0-09.After missing a litany of chances in the first half Keel went to the half time break level on 4 points with Glenbeigh.Despite Keel starting out the second half much the better it was Glenbeigh who got the lucky break to score the games first goal.Keel showed great heart to drag themselves back into the match and regained the lead with five minutes left on the clock.It is said fortune favours the brave but in this instance fortune was against Keel as a speculative effort into the Keel square ended up being booted to the net.Keel continued to fight back but were unable to locate the final pass that could have led to the winning goal and in the end time r 
