sport gaa
{  
    December 19 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/chairmen-back-other-sports-at-croke-park-26102440.html }
AN Irish Independent survey shows a huge groundswell of support for the recently mooted idea of allowing the playing  of other sports in Croke Park. Of the 32 chairmen polled, 13 supported opening the GAA's HQ to other sports, nine were against the idea, seven were undecided and three declined to comment. The greatest support for the proposal came from Leinster where six of the 12 chairmen polled were receptive to the idea of Croker hosting other sports, only two were against the idea, while three were undecided and one declined to comment. The Ulster chairmen voiced the greatest opposition to the possibility of opening the doors of Croke Park to other codes with five against, three for and one declining to comment. Munster was split down the middle as two supported the idea, two were against it, one was undecided and one declined to comment on the issue. The majority of Connacht chairmen were keeping their powder dry with three undecided. None dismissed the idea out of hand though, and the two other chairmen supported Croker being opened to other codes. Money makes the world go around, and the financial rewards of opening Croker's doors was the predominant justification quoted by those chairmen who supported the idea. According to Clare county board chairman, Fr Michael McNamara, "the GAA must explore all commercial avenues that would allow us to maintain a healthy organisation. PROMOTE "Allowing other sports to be played in Croke Park would provide the GAA with much-needed funds to further promote and develop the game." "Considering it already hosts our national sports, I think it would be fitting if Croke Park was the country's National Stadium for all sports. "I don't think playing other sports in Croke Park would take away from the philosophy and core values of the GAA - Croke Park will always be a field of dreams for GAA players and fans alike. A decision on this issue will have to be made sooner rather than later." If or when that decision is made, Waterford's PJ Ryan will be to the vanguard of the 'No' campaign. "The over-spending on Croke Park has backed the association into an awkward position but you don't sell your principles and soul for money," stated Ryan. "The only national identity that Ireland has at the moment is through Gaelic games, but I think that would been endangered by playing other sports in our Gaelic games stadia. I'm not anti-other sports and I think a lot of GAA people who, like me, aren't hard-liners, would be disappointed if Croke Park was opened to other codes." One of the most common concerns voiced by the county board chairmen - those for, against and undecided - was the possibility that if Croke Park was opened to other sports then other GAA grounds around the country would follow suit. "I wouldn't have a problem with other sports being played in Croke Park as long as the buck stopped there," stated Mayo's PJ McGrath. "There is no way other GAA pitches around the country could support other sports. We're having a hard enough time finding pitches for our own competitions. At the moment we can't even fit schools' matches into Castlebar's schedule." Ulster chairmen broached the topic with more certainty than most. Of the nine counties, the personal opinion of five chairman was that the issue was not worth pursuing - making it was the only province that would turn the idea down. BACKING Only one chairman in the six counties - Gerard O'Kane in Derry, gave the idea his backing: "I don't think it's any bigger an issue up here than anywhere else. "The whole thing doesn't worry me as I feel our games are capable of competing successfully with other codes. "We have to move forward some day and if this could be accommodated it is something that could be to the benefit of the association." Cavan chairman George Cartwright was one of the few other Ulster chairman that would support the idea. "My views are as I expressed them at the county convention. I would certainly support a policy change which would give Central Council authority on the question of other sports being played at Croke Park." "If other organisations want to rent out Croke Park what are the financial benefits for the GAA as a result? Would the monies be used to defray the capital costs, maintenance costs or would they be filtered down to cash starved counties. That for me is the real issue." Longford chairman Martin Skelly, who was elected on Sunday, pointed to an amendment to Rule 42A proposed to by the Grattan Óg Club that placed all property and grounds under the sanction of Central Council. "The debate that accompanied it was short and the vote that accompanied it was passed almost unanimously. "I myself am comfortable with the whole concept. Our footballers have had to use the local rugby facilities in the past and I have always felt at odds with the fact that we could use their facilities on their terms and yet could not do likewise if we wished." 
