sport gaa
{  
    March 29 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/sharing-of-stadia-can-only-work-both-ways-26525589.html }
Paraic Duffy, the GAA's director-general, writes a refreshingly honest review of his sport in the 2008 annual report. Duffy's language is clear, his views straightforward and his meaning is not buried in jargon or, worse, the tortured phrases of a human resources executive. He is worried about discipline, reckons the inter-provincial competitions should be abandoned, supports the international rules series and is concerned about the future of his sports in schools because of Government cutbacks on teacher substitutions. Duffy points out that the GAA is strongest in non-fee-paying schools and will therefore feel the pain of the cutbacks more severely than schools that at least have a choice to divert some of their revenue towards sport. Unless the Government changes tack, Duffy says, the GAA faces a "serious problem" that "should alarm us all". His concerns with Government failings do not stop with schools sport. His most trenchant criticism is reserved for the decision to exclude the GAA from the new Tallaght soccer stadium, which he describes as the "most serious example of a lost opportunity to develop multi-sports participation in a publicly funded facility." It is a decision, he says, which cannot be justified, and which he clearly fears will be replicated in north Dublin, where another publicly funded sports stadium will most likely exclude the GAA. Duffy (pictured) makes an ostensibly fair point, but he ignores the real context of sports development in this country and he steps away from the clarity that has been the highlight of his report. In an ideal world, every major population area would have one outstanding local facility that could be used for all major sporting events. A spirit of ground and facility sharing would benefit all sports and all communities, but in Ireland things evolve differently. We have plenty of second and third-rate facilities, often in close proximity in the same town, but truly first-rate facilities are rare. Sporting politics dictate that Limerick's impressive Thomond Park will host soccer and pop concerts during the summer rather than hurling or football, while the Gaelic Grounds will be idle if Munster make the Heineken Cup semi-final. The thawing of relations that saw Croke Park, a partially publicly funded facility, open for soccer and rugby has not been extended across the country, and the prospects of an extension remain remote. So Munster will travel to Croke Park for that semi-final if they defeat the Ospreys -- a massive improvement on the alternative venue at the RDS, but not as appropriate as Cork or Limerick. When Duffy talks of exclusion from new publicly funded stadia, he should really start with an extensive audit of the GAA's existing facilities and decide which ones are best suited for upgrade as multi-sports facilities. If he could present Government with that list, then the taxpayers' money could be used more effectively to develop quality infrastructure for all sports. Instead of having to buy land and build stadia from scratch, existing GAA grounds could be refurbished so they could host rugby and soccer. The same, of course, applies to rugby and soccer: their grounds could be redeveloped so they could host Gaelic games. In time, co-operation and redevelopment would see duplicate second and third-rate facilities merged into multi-use first-rate facilities, while allowing all sports to match their stadium needs across the country. In that context of co-operation, any new stadia would also be multi-use facilities that served the whole community and not just one section of it. Recession, which dries up public funds and reduces the possibility of a club selling its grounds for property development, might help stimulate co-operation, but there will be many diehards on all sides who would rather have exclusive use of a run-down stadium rather than share a redeveloped one. Duffy is right: public money should be used to develop multi-sports facilities, but first he must fully convert the GAA to the concept, and then persuade other sports to follow him. He cannot talk about perceptions of fairness in the allocation of taxpayers' money without acknowledging the divisions which prevent Irish sport from developing and sharing facilities. If Ireland's sporting leaders could present a united front, they might even be able to get their hands on the lottery money that was meant to fund their development but which has been subsumed by Government. Now that would be a result. 
