sport gaa
{  
    October 08 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/dramatic-changes-needed-to-ease-club-logjams-26323573.html }
Tomorrow, the GAA will present the long awaited report on club fixtures which has been prepared by Pádraig Duffy, the Player Welfare Officer and hot favourite to succeed Liam Mulvihill as the GAA's top man. Duffy is nothing if not a realist and is acutely aware of the political machinations which lie behind every major GAA decision at administrative level. Therefore his report will be dominated by what he believes can be changed in the GAA rather than the aspirational nonsense which often dominates such reports. Club fixtures are undoubtedly the greatest problem facing the GAA in the immediate future and with each passing year, it gets worse. More and more club players are getting frustrated with the farcical method of playing important club matches in most counties in Ireland and they are prepared to take strong action to bring about change. What the average club player requires is a regular programme of games, involving league and championship matches, between March and October a period of about eight months. Club players often devote as much time to training and match preparation as inter-county stars but whereas the county players get priority treatment regarding a fixtures list which they can look at in January and be sure it will be carried out, the club player knows such a list for club matches if often useless. The intentions of the various fixtures committees in every county are admirable and the annual fixture list looks great on paper in January or February. But as most club players know only too well, the season will not be many weeks in operation until postponements start and this will continue for the entire season. The result of all this is club players going many weeks without a game, often not knowing when an important championship game will actually take place until a week or less beforehand. Inevitably there is a glut of fixtures in November-December as county boards stampede to get competitions finished so that they will be able to boast they have completed their fixture programme in the calendar year. They have, but at what price? Horror stories I have a list of horror stories regarding club fixtures the length of your arm sent to me in recent years by players. Stories about holidays having to be cancelled at short notice when a big county championship match, which had been postponed a couple of times, is suddenly pulled out of the hat with four or five days notice; about senior club games being called off because one team has a player on the county minor or junior team; about county team managers not allowing players who are between 25th and 35th on the county panel to play for their club, thereby denying another 40 odd players a game that week. And the problems caused by footballers who dabble in hurling at club level and vice-versa are almost laughable -- unless you are a conscientious club player, of course, to whom it does not seem in the least bit funny. A senior club football game may be called off because a few players on one team are fixed to play junior hurling with their club. And of course the talented 18-year-old dual player who can drive a JCB through the most elaborate of fixture-lists ever produced as he tries to answer the calls from four or five different teams in his own club. The list of reasons why club games are called off is almost endless and there is a very poor record in GAA administration of officials taking a hard line on such matters. It is more popular to grant the postponement, with the County Convention later in the year in mind, and sure who cares about a few whinging club players anyway? The trouble for the GAA at national level is that there are thousands of 'whinging club players' all over the country and their attitude is hardening all the time. In modern Irish society people are arranging their life-styles more precisely than they did 25 years ago. Dedicated club GAA players are quite prepared to set aside a substantial part of their free time for their GAA activity so long as it fits in with the other components of their lifestyles such as work, holidays, family requirements and other sporting interests. But when the postponements start happening with the consequent disruption to the lives of players then things take a dramatic change. Personal relationships are put under strain, family commitments are upset, there may be problems at work and so on. Many modern day players will not put up with this sort of disruption of their lives and drop out of GAA activity altogether. Others may stay in the system but simply go through the motions with regard to playing for their clubs by putting their GAA commitments at the bottom of their list of lifestyle activities. And always there is anger at the GAA as an organisation with the inevitable comparisons with how other sports like rugby and soccer can publish fixture lists and then carry them out as published, while the GAA cannot. All the claims being made in recent times about how great, wealthy and influential the GAA has become since the opening of the new Croke Park ring very hollow with many club players when they are told five days before a big county championship game that the match is off for one of the many reasons listed earlier. A special congress is to be held shortly by the GAA to address the matter of fixtures but don't expect any drastic changes. Because the only way anything can be done to solve the problem is to take actions that are unpopular and GAA administrators are not in the habit of doing such things. For example some inter-county competitions need to be done away with such as the U21 grade which has a devastating effect on club fixtures in each county, the Junior championship at inter-county level and the various cup competitions that take place in each province at the start of the year. More dates for club games cannot emerge unless there are less inter-county games but the GAA has never shown any desire to remove inter-county games from their calendar. Many modern But the bottom line remains that if we want a proper club fixture list, which involves 98% of the GAA's playing membership, then inter-county games which involve less than 2% of players has to be curtailed. The logic is blindingly obvious but the will to comply with the logic is simply not there in the GAA so it will be interesting to see if Pádraig Duffy's report proposes the elimination of U21 competitions at all levels in the GAA. Only dramatic change can solve the club fixture crisis but going on past history the GAA will not opt for that but instead will make cosmetic changes to give the impression that they really do care about the clubs. This subject is topical now because the All-Ireland club championships are about to start. These are great in their own right but they present a false image of the overall state of club games. With the backing of sponsors, the club championships now starting will be made look very glamourous with the impression being conveyed by smart advertising slogans that everything on the club scene is rosy. The reality, sadly, is very different. 
