sport gaa
{  
    January 19 2015 04:19 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/gaa-30919603.html }
GAA FINGALLIANS Club membership is now due. Applications have now gone out to all via email and are available on www.fingallians.com or from the club office between 9.30am and 12.30pm at 01-8400125. The great sports prediction quiz is now available online for €10. Check out http://www.fingallians.com/index.php/2015-membership-and-quiz/2015. Our Academy started back last Saturday and new boys and girls are most welcome from the ages of four to seven. Tickets for the National GAA club draw are priced at €10 each and are available from the club bar.  We currently have two courses in the pipeline for January and February: a Hurling workshop this Friday and Running Mechanics in the GAA on February 21st. For more information please contact the club's GPO Nicky at nicola.fitzgerald.gpo.dublin@gaa.ie.  Fingallians will be representing Dublin in the quiz section of the Scór na nÓg final on 14th February at Citywest. This is a GAA All-Ireland final and tickets are in high demand. Tickets are only available through clubs and will not be available at the door. Those seeking tickets (€20 each) should contact Liam Ó Culbáird at 086-3814422. Leaving Cert oral exams will take place in April. To help our members, we will be hosting a weekly Irish language conversation group specifically for teens, starting in late January. Further details will follow. GAA Season tickets can be purchased online at http://www.gaa.ie/seasonticket. Would you like to become a referee? Please contact your local referee administrator or recruitment officer who will give you details on upcoming GAA Referee Foundation Course in this area. Details are available on  http://www.gaa.ie/coaching-and-games-development/match-officials/ FINGAL RAVENS Our Juvenile agm takes place this Tuesday (20th) at 8.30pm in Kettles. We encourage all mentors and parents/guardians to attend. As our current committee are stepping down, we are recruiting for the following positions: Juvenile Club Chairman, Juvenile Secretary, Juvenile Girls Secretary, Juvenile Girls Board Delegate, CCC1 delegate and CCC2 delegate. Well done to Darren Daly who played in Dublin's O'Byrne Cup win over Meath. Best of luck in the final. The Supper Dance takes place in Kettles Country House next Saturday and tickets - priced €25 - are on sale now. Please contact Lisa on 085-7300934 or any committee member. The club's Operation Transformation group will continue to meet every Saturday morning at 9.30am at the pitch - beginners welcome each week.  If you would like to order tickets for the upcoming Dublin Spring Series in Croke Park, please send your orders through to Lisa on our club phone - 086-1765932 - by 8pm on Thursday January 29th. Fingal Ravens are taking part in the GAA National club draw and tickets are on sale now. Tickets are €10 and all proceeds will go directly to Fingal Ravens. Tickets are available from Lisa on 085-7300934. Memberships for 2015 must be paid in full by March 31st - forms are now available. Deepest sympathy to Slivia Maxwell Flanagan and the Maxwell family on the recent passing of their mother Agnes. There was no jackpot winner in last week's lotto. Numbers drawn were 5, 6, 16, 34 and the €20 prizes went to K McDonagh, R Tormey and P Connell. This week's jackpot is €12,957. MAN O WAR Tickets can be purchased online at manowargfc.com for the GAA national draw until tonight (Tuesday). Tickets can also be returned to any club committee member.  The club's annual presentation and dinner dance takes place on Saturday February 28th - details to follow.  Adult men's, ladies and all juvenile teams have returned to training and new players are always welcome.  O'DWYER'S We would like to extend a huge thank-you to the management and staff of SuperValu Balbriggan who welcomed and helped us with our fundraiser over Christmas. A huge thank-you also to all members who gave time up during the busy period to help us. All fixtures for the coming weekend can be found at http://www.dublingaa.ie/fixtures. We are taking part once again in the National GAA Draw. Tickets are €10 each and the club gets to keep 100% of funds raised. We are hoping to use this money towards the cost of installing badly-needed ball nets and would appreciate all support. Tickets are available from all committee members. Training for men's team will continue this Tuesday and Thursday at 7.30. New and old players are more than welcome. Training for the ladies team continues on Wednesdays at 7.30 - please be in the club at 7.15. Again, new and old players are more than welcome. Our club lotto is available to play online www.odwyersgaa.com. Last week's numbers were 10, 11, 21 and this week's jackpot will be €818. Membership for 2015 is now open at www.odwyersgaa.com. There are a huge number of options available for all members and newcomers are always welcome. ROUND TOWERS LUSK All tickets (sold and unsold) for the GAA National Draw have to be returned to Croke Park by next Saturday. Can we therefore ask you as a matter of urgency to return all tickets, be they sold or unsold, to the club by this Wednesday at 9pm. Thank you all for your support with this fund-raising drive. The next fundraiser for the club will be a Table Quiz on Friday 6th February at 8.30pm, with a table of four costing just €20. This is an ideal way for everyone to get together for some fun, whilst raising funds for the club.  Memberships are now due for 2015. Full details along with a downloadable form are available from the website at  http://www.roundtowerslusk.ie/memberships-for-2015/ Well done to all those who took part in the recent Foundation Course in the club.  Our new Under-8 team had their first outing of the year at the Gormanston Indoor Hurling Tournament and put on a fine display.  Well done to all our teams who took part at the weekend. There was no winner of our lotto last week. Numbers drawn were 3, 17, 21 & 26 and €50 went to Marcella and €25 to B Fagan & P Daly. This week's jackpot stands at €3,700.  Bingo continues every Monday at 8.30pm in the hall, with a book costing €10. ST COLMCILLES A REMINDER that membership is now due.  The GAA National Draw is back again, with some great prizes on offer. Tickets are €10 each and are now available in the clubhouse. All proceeds from the sale of tickets is retained by the club, so please show your support and purchase a ticket. Adult team training this week is on Tuesday from 8pm to 9pm in Swords Fitness and Thursday from 8pm to 9pm on the pitch. New players are always welcome. We hope to secure a friendly at the weekend against Fingallians, day and time to be confirmed. Last week's lotto numbers were (Draw 1) 4, 7, 19, 30 and (Draw 2) 7, 15, 26, 30. There were two winners of €100 in each draw and this will remain the case until one of the jackpots is won. Jackpots this week are €10,000 and envelopes are available in the clubhouse, the Estuary Pub, the Harp Bar and the Pound Pub. You can now play lotto on our club app - just text Cilles to 087-1962013. Thanks for your continued support. Our pool team was given a walk over last Monday. This week sees them at home to Delaney's - best of luck to all involved. Colmcilles/Wednesday darts team was at home to The Astro and it was another great win for the lads, with a scoreline of 8-0. Well done lads. This Wednesday sees the team away to Syl's 8 - best of luck lads. Congratulations to five players from this team who were selected on Dublin 'B' team panel for the Leinster Championship in Kilkenny, namely Dylan Rutledge, Shane Hand, Kevin Power, Paul Moran and John Power. Well done lads. On Friday Colmcilles A were away to The Star and another great night of darts saw the lads winning again with a scoreline of 6-0. Well done to Aaron Lowndes on his 114 checkout and his 180, and well done to all involved. This Friday sees them at home to the Strand. On Friday night Colmcilles B were at home to The Strand and after another great night of darts unfortunately the Strand won 4-2. Well done to all involved. This Friday sees them away to The Cricket. If anyone wishes to have anything added to the club notes you can contact Lorraine at lorrainecoconnell@hotmail.com or alternatively leave a message on Our Facebook Page. Colmcilles Gaa Club. ST FINIAN'S SWORDS The lotto jackpot was €9,300 this week and the numbers drawn were 4, 8, 12, 14.  We had one jackpot winner - Tony Dervan! Tony lives in England but has been a supporter of our club lotto for many years through our standing order system. We send him huge congratulations. The €50 lucky dip winners were Sheila Kavanagh and M Naughton and this week the jackpot will be €1,500. Congratulations to Ciara Buchanan on making the Dublin Minor Camogie panel for the 2015 season. Ciara is going from strength to strength and is also part of the DCU camogie squad. She is a great example to our juvenile camogie teams. Well done to Eoin O'Connor on making his debut with Fingal senior hurlers against Wicklow in the Kehoe Cup at the weekend, joining fellow club member David Hattie. The game ended in a draw, 0-12 each. Well done to all the juvenile teams who took part in the Gormanston Indoor Hurling League over the weekend. Please return all sold National Draw ticket stubs to the club office as soon as possible. Club membership fees are also due and can be paid through our website or in the club office. Tickets for the Spring Series National League Football and Hurling games in Croke Park can be ordered by email from stfiniansgaaclubswords@gmail.com or by calling the office on 01-8132656. ST MAUR'S Alas it's time to renew your membership. The online membership scheme is open and rates and set-up are the same as last year. Payment by five monthly instalments is available as normal - see http://www.maurs.ie/ClubNews/Membership.aspx for details. The annual Players Night function will be on Saturday 7th February in the clubhouse. Tickets will be on sale in the downstairs bar between 7.30 and 8.45 this Tuesday night. Demand is high and quite a few have gone already. Numbers are limited, so to avoid disappointment get up tonight and purchase your ticket.  It was great to hear whistles in 'The Park' over the past week or so as training commenced for the season with most teams, with more to follow this week. Well done to all our Maur's teams who played in week one of the Gormanston indoor hurling tournament. A special mention to the U-10 camogie team and especially their parents. Scheduled to play at 6.30 and at 7, we still had a huge turnout, with 20 players for the two teams. Well done all! Congratulations to Conor Maguire who played in Dublin's win against Offaly recently. Ciaran Reddin, Eoin Fletcher and David McGuinness were part of the winning DIT team against Wicklow. Numbers drawn in last week's lotto for a jackpot of €9,250 were 15, 20, 29, 30 and the €50 lucky dip winners were Maria Coscoran, Ann Marie Milne, Patricia Mulholland, Bridgette Delaney and Holiday Money. This week's jackpot will be €9,500. Numbers drawn the week before last were 9, 12, 20, 29. The €50 lucky dip winners were Alex Kerrigan, James Carthy, Austin McGeough, Andy Cawley and M Monks. SKERRIES HARPS Tickets for the GAA National Club Draw need to be returned - whether sold or not - by this Thursday. They can be returned on Thursday night at the Games meetings or give them to any committee member. All monies collected stay with the club, so please support this initiative. Congrats to Pat Dwyer on being awarded RTE's Local Hero on Saturday last. This is awarded to an individual in a community that goes the extra mile and Pat definitely does! See how he got on by tuning into RTE's Today programme this Wednesday at 4.30pm. Club annual membership is now due. All players must also pay the mandatory Injury Fund Fee and Membership Fee before the season starts. Subsrciptions are as last year, with an extra Social Membership Now available at €50. You can now pay on line at skerriesharps.ie and follow the links. Adult and Juvenile training has now commenced. Any person interested in playing or helping with any team can contact Paul Donnelly at 086-8431268, or anyone interested in playing with a juvenile team or helping out can contact Pat Delaney at 087-6181179. Juvenile Games Meetings continue every Thursday at 9pm, with Adult Games meetings at 10pm. The Juvenile Academy is on Saturday mornings between 10 and 11.30am. Gormanston Indoor Hurling has begun and will continue for the next five Sundays. Contact Denis at 086-8177965 for more info. Last night in the clubhouse was a great success, with great music, crowd and craic, and we are all looking forward to the new clubhouse opening soon. Photos of the Juvenile Awards Night are now on the Flickr page on the website at skerriesharps.ie. Lyndsey Davey has been nominated for Fingal Independent Sports Star of the Year. To vote for Lyndsey fill out the form in the Fingal Independent this weeks - all support very welcome. Zingo result 7-2-6-5-1-4-3. There was no winner of the jackpot, which now stands at €2,600. All proceeds go to the day-to-day running of the Harps. This Thursday's draw will be in The Gladstone at 10.30pm. Envelopes cost €2 from Gary Holland or by quarterly bank standing order - or play on-line at skerriesharps.ie. Playing makes it possible and helps your club at the same time. Wild GEESE A happy new year to all our members and supporters and a special thanks to all that supported our lotto and fund-raising throughout 2014. Adult football training this week is on Tuesday and Thursday at 8pm and training for ladies takes place on Monday and Wednesday at 8pm. Thanks to all who supported the agm and new members are very welcome. There will be a committee meeting this Tuesday. Last week's lotto numbers were 1, 7, 21, 23 and the €20 prizes went to Aisling corbally, Thomas Carroll and Packie & Scats. This week's jackpot stands at €640. Wild Geese would like to send on condolences to Andrew Kettle's family. Andrew was well liked and respected by the people of Oldtown and will be sadly missed. Ar dheis Dè go raibh a anam. Golf BALBRIGGAN SUNDAY'S Spring League No 4 results: Front nine - Div 1 winner Dave Noone (5) 22pts, 2nd Barry Callaghan (6) 22pts; Div 2 winner Willie Rooney (12) 21pts, 2nd Jim Behan (11) 21pts; Div 3 winner David Watson (20) 23pts, 2nd Gary O'Reilly (13) 22pts. Back nine - Div 1 winner Greg Jnr Lewis (2) 21pts, 2nd David Brabazon (2) 19pts; Div 2 winner Pat O'Connor (10) 21pts, 2nd Tom Clarke (10) 20pts; Div 3 winner Jimmy Courtney (14) 22pts, 2nd Paul McNally (14) 19pts. Saturday's Spring League No 3 results: Front nine - Div 1 winner Quentin Hughes (4) 22pts, 2nd Mark Farrell (6) 21pts; Div 2 winner Tony Kenny (11) 22pts, 2nd Michael Geary (12) 20pts; Div 3 winner Derek Curran (19) 22pts, 2nd Rory Kelly (14) 22pts. Back nine - Div 1 winner Tom Dwyer (8) 21pts, 2nd Pat Kinsella (8) 21pts; Div 2 winner John Scully (10) 21pts, 2nd Willie Rooney (12) 20pts; Div 3 winner Pat Ring (14) 19pts, 2nd Michael Hussey (15) 19pts. Rugby ASHBOURNE THERE are no adult games for the next few weeks as we have a bye in the first round of the Provincial Towns Cup. The next competitive games are the away trip for both the first and second XV on 8th February. We will keep you posted on the details. Adult training has resumed like normal and all are welcome. It is never too late to join. The Youth and Mini sections are on a seasonal break, but if you are interested in taking part please look us up and join in. We are always open to new members. All games will be listed weekly on our Facebook and Twitter pages as well as the website. Follow our Legends of Ashbourne Event on Facebook and the website.  Follow us on www.ashbournerugby.ie or on Twitter @AshbourneRFC and Facebook at AshbourneRFC. Fingal Independent 
