sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    November 13 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/officials-run-away-from-job-of-sorting-out-pitch-violence-26355054.html }
PERSONALLY, I am not very concerned whether or not we have any more games between the GAA and the AFL. I have always maintained that they were just an interesting add-on to the GAA season for our leading players and Irish sports fans in general. The GAA would survive and prosper just as well without the Australian connection, even though we have already taken quite a bit from the experiment for Gaelic football. However, I am not impressed with the attitude of prominent GAA people since last Sunday week as they set themselves up as paragons of virtue and expounders of sportsmanship in international sport. All of them were adamant that the contacts with AFL football should stop forthwith because they say they never saw anything as dirty in all their lives as the second test match. And they tell us the GAA cannot be party to this violent conduct emanating from the Australians. The clear implication is that these Australians are savages and should never again be allowed on the same playing field as GAA players who are much more civilised and play the game in a sporting manner. But, in effect, these GAA people are running away from the problem of dirty play by brainwashing us all into believing that the only answer to last Sunday week's events is to abandon the whole GAA-AFL connection. As I said at the start, I have no problem with the link being broken, but like many other GAA people I would not agree with breaking it based on this warped logic. This whiter than white GAA image does not fit well with the GAA approving television ads like: "It's time to play - HARD" or "There's no compromise in International Rules". The level of hypocrisy inherent in this official attitude of the past week is staggering. We all know that the GAA is rife with dirty play and indiscipline at all levels from Under 12 up to All-Ireland senior championship, and the organisation is in a poor position to lecture anybody in this area. Hasn't the GAA been convulsed with discipline problems every single year in recent times? That is why they have had to adopt panic measures such as the setting up of a quasi-legal body called the DRA in an attempt to control the situation. This year alone we had the Tyrone-Dublin brawl in the National League which largely went unpunished. We had an Offaly player being trampled upon as he lay on the Croke Park sod, there were shocking scenes in several big club hurling games around the country and only last Sunday referee Pat Fox from Westmeath was assaulted after a Leinster club championship match. In recent years there has been a litany of players who had their jaws broken in off-the-ball assaults in GAA games. Dirty incidents are tiny in number in relation to the total number of games played, but that is no justification for it. I could list a saga of savagery and barbaric acts which I have witnessed on GAA fields over the past 30 years and what annoyed me most during the past week was that the prominent GAA people who savaged the Australians, correctly on this occasion, as a prelude to calling the series off for good have in their lifetimes seen as many such acts of dirty play. Some of them have also been involved in the political manipulations at County Board or provincial level which enabled some of the perpetrators of disgraceful acts to escape suspension. This is the 'You scratch mine and I'll scratch yours' syndrome and there has been a hell of a lot of scratching done by GAA officers at all levels regarding dirty play. Just last week, we had the laughable situation in Galway hurling where people who spoke out to the media about dirty play in the county final got bigger suspensions than the culprits. That tells us a lot about the GAA's priorities when it comes to discipline. In no area of its wide portfolio of activity does the GAA talk so sanctimoniously as when dealing with dirty play and the constant ignoring of Liam Mulvihill's pointed comments on the subject in his annual report is contemptuous. In the upcoming AGM season, officials will be outdoing each other in their praise for the sporting nature of GAA games and then in a casual way mention that "we had a few unsavoury incidents during the year". As always there are hidden agendas. A large rump of GAA officers were always totally against the link between the GAA and AFL. Some had genuine reasons, but others were coming from a background of insularity, believing that GAA games were the only true embodiment of Irishness and any involvement with other countries' sports would pollute that ethnic purity. This was also one of the main reasons behind the infamous Rule 27 which banned GAA members from playing or watching soccer, rugby, hockey or cricket right up to 1971. These long-term objectors have now seized on the dirty play in the last two test series as their opportunity to move in for the kill. The wind had been taken out of their sails since 1998 because the series was so popular and drew huge crowds in both countries, but now they see their chance to kill it off and they don't care a damn what the players or fans think - they never did. It appears we will now have a split in GAA ranks on the future of these games. Nearly all county players want them to continue and obviously regard selection for Ireland as a highlight of their careers, especially players from the large number of counties who cannot realistically hope to win an All-Ireland. A majority of the fans would also like the series to continue, with changes of course. However, the popular stance among GAA officers, led by President Nickey Brennan, is that the hybrid game should now be killed off. We can expect a mass stampede by other officials, led by Central Council members and would-be GAA presidents to jump on the bandwagon. This division between players/fans and officials has the makings of a nasty scenario. Could the GPA please comment? I have no doubt the games could be cleaned up to everyone's satisfaction if people really want to. We had a similar situation after the 1986 series when we saw atrocious violence in Australia. That time the Irish players gave as good, or as bad, as they got, but then there were men like Pat O'Byrne, Brian McGilligan, Jack O'Shea, Mick Lyons and Niall Cahalane to name just a few playing under the guidance of Kevin Heffernan. When I was appointed manager for 1987 and 1990 it was clearly understood that a cleaning-up job was what was wanted and that's what happened. So it could happen again. A few things would swing the balance back to fairly normal sporting behaviour. Firstly, the referees should be forced to issue red cards for serious offences. Had that been done in the first quarter last week, it would have nipped the it in the bud and I wonder if Pat McEneaney had been the Irish ref would he have done that? Secondly, the GAA now holds all the aces and with proper negotiating skills should be able to extract draconian and enforceable changes from the AFL, who have no other possible outlet for international activity. But based on the comments from GAA people last week, I doubt if the will is there to salvage anything. The players' and fans' wishes will as usual be at the bottom of the list. And the GAA, having run away from sorting out violence in the compromise game, will continue to do the same with Gaelic football and hurling. 
