sport gaa
{  
    May 26 2008 09:33 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sports-budget-puts-horses-and-dogs-ahead-of-children-26449206.html }
IT'S time for a proper debate on sport in Ireland or, more specifically, on the Government's role in it. The publication last week of a survey of general sporting activity is the perfect starting point. ‘Sporting Lives’ is the title of the recent ESRI report, and at first glance it offers us something different. But in essence it doesn't. The ESRI has previously published much of this information, but the debate on sports policy has not started. As a result, the authors have presented their findings in a way designed to attract maximum attention. We can only hope that this time the debate catches fire. In reading the report or press releases you need to keep an eye out for the two ‘R’ words – recreation and relative. The report shows that there has been an increase in sport and physical activity for recreation. This does not mean that there is more sport and physical recreation undertaken by the 21st century Irish compared to older generations. Many in previous generations walked and cycled to school or work because it was the only option. They did not engage in this physical exercise for recreation purposes. The report does not say that we engage in more sport and physical exercise. The words “for recreation purposes” are crucial. The report finds that GAA is in relative decline. Most people miss the significance of the word relative. The pessimists in the GAA latch on to the word decline and the GAA begins on the defensive. The recommendations suggest that government funding might direct resources away from the GAA. Now there is something to grab the media headlines. Unfortunately, the other ESRI reports on sports have not received the attention they deserve. Maybe the suggestion that the GAA gets less funding will provide the spark. Let us look at government funding of sport. In the revised estimates for 2008 the Government plans to spend €311m on sport – €93m of this is for Lansdowne Road. Of the remaining €218m, a figure of €76,268,000 is destined for the Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund. Yes, 35pc of the €218m is going to the dogs and horses – and a large portion of this goes in prize money. If you want to know the big winners, then look at the annual reports of Horse Racing Ireland. It will come as no surprise. Does it not make more sense to spend money getting kids running than horses running? The ERSI has previously highlighted this situation, but it seemed to make no difference. Where else does the taxpayers’ money go? Nearly €58m goes to the Irish Sports Council. There is a budget of €56m for National Lottery sports capital grants and €20m for the provision of swimming pools. There is nearly €7m allocated to the National Sports Campus. Then there is the €1.5m for ‘Grants to Support Sport in Disadvantage Areas'. A full €1.5m ringfenced for sport in disadvantaged areas out of a projected spending of €311m. The ESRI report highlighted the lack of participation by lower socio-economic groups and this Government gives it €1.5m while the Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund gets €76m. There's priorities for you! This Government has given sports a priority that it did not have before 1997. They increased the funding and signalled its importance at the Cabinet table. However, the allocation of funding suggests questionable priorities and ad hoc policy implementation. Look at the distribution of the National Lottery sports capital grants. The county represented by the Minister for Arts, Sports and Tourism gets more per capita funding when the grant allocations are announced. Donegal got the highest per person funding from 1999-2002 while Jim McDaid was minister. When he left office Donegal slipped to 23rd in the rankings. John O'Donoghue looked after the people of Kerry. In per person, terms it was ranked 10 th of the 26 counties for McDaid's period in office. Surprisingly, Kerry got the highest per person allocation for the period 2003-7. A certain St Mary's GAA club in Kerry got €650,000 in grant allocations during the same period. The recent ESRI report has some sensible suggestions. The earlier reports provided others. But the debate has to start with our priorities for sport. More importantly, the Government has to put its money where its mouth is. Don't talk about giving priority to disadvantaged areas and then ringfence €1.5m. Don't talk about equitable distribution of National Lottery funds and then allow the minister to bring the bacon back home. And don't talk about the health benefits of sport before proceeding to give €76m of a €311m budget to the nags and dogs. 
