sport gaa
{  
    November 29 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/monday-focus-a-great-day-for-gaelic-games-as-bad-old-coaching-manual-is-torn-up-25888570.html }
WHAT would you say are the 'big items' on the GAA agenda for your ordinary follower of the games just now? The All Stars teams? The Dublin manager fiasco? The provincial club championships? The debate about opening up Croke Park? Undoubtedly, all these topics take up the attention of the media and the GAA public. But last Saturday an event took place in Dublin which in my humble opinion was far more important than any of the other matters that generally occupy the time of the GAA's chattering classes. The official title of the event was the National Coaching Conference 2004 and in attendance at the splendidly equipped Dublin City University (DCU) were coaches of all levels from underage to All-Ireland inter-county level. An amazing 622 coaches attended, which was about 50 per cent more than at the inaugural event a year ago. Having spent half a day at DCU, I could only marvel at the the incredible level of sophistication which has been brought to GAA coaching under the overall direction of the Croke Park Games Development Officer Pat Daly. As one who attended the very first coaching conference in Gormanston College many years ago - which was organised by Joe Lennon, Eamon Young, Mick Ryan and Jim McKeever among others - I cannot but marvel at the distance travelled in the coaching sphere since. Back then, you were regarded as a GAA communist if you let the word out that you were interested in coaching and anyone associated with coaching was considered not to be a genuine Gael at all, at all. "What the hell do we need this coaching lark for? Sure, we had no coaching in our day and didn't football and hurling thrive," they said. Another 15 or 20 years went by after that Gormanston conference before the GAA realised that coaching was actually a necessity. Thankfully, we have come a long way in the past 20 years and now the standard of coaching expertise available to GAA people is probably the best of any sport in the country. That is not to say, of course, that this expertise is actually being put into practice at all levels throughout the GAA. Indeed, one has only to study any game of Gaelic football from Under-12 to All-Ireland championship level to see the paucity of skills on offer in your average match. Saturday's conference was mainly concerned with modifying the systems of coaching and training which have existed in the GAA for the past 25 years or so to take cognisance of the mistakes that are being made and to bring it into line with 'best practice' in coaching around the sporting world. But it was also geared towards winning the battle for young boys and girls throughout Ireland. To achieve this, the GAA has devised a revolutionary new system of introducing football and hurling to children from the age of seven to about twelve. It is called Go Go Games and incorporates three stages, Play to Learn, Learn to Compete and Compete to Win. The idea is to bring children into football and hurling, initially purely for the fun of it, which is what children of that tender age want anyway. In this phase, they simply learn the very basic skills and to make it easier and more enjoyable they use specially adapted footballs, sliotars that are softer, and hurleys with a rubber bás that are much more user-friendly than the normal ones. In Phase 2, the children, now aged 10 and over, move into more realistic games situations and it is here they are introduced to competition for the first time. And in the third phase, Compete to Win, they get involved in the nitty-gritty of playing to win in competitions. This is no airy-fairy gimmick drawn from some other sport. Apart from coaches becoming advocates of this system, the GAA has produced a brilliant DVD for parents and teachers who might have no great knowledge of football or hurling. The aim here is make sure that nobody feels inadequate about getting involved in Gaelic games, be they children, parents or teachers. The GAA in the past often scorned people like that. As in all good coaching, the emphasis all the time is on small games, mainly seven-a-side, on pitches that get bigger as the children get older. But there is one incredibly important detail - there are to be no subs. Instead, every player gets the same amount of game-time and what a transformation that is. Is there a GAA person out there who has not at some stage of their underage career been one of an army of subs at match after match? They all remember the embarrassment of going home to sceptical parents week after week and dreading the inevitable question: "Were you playing today?" And the humiliating attempts at trying to make an excuse for the answer "No". Space prevents me from elaborating further on this new coaching approach, but take it from me it is, as coach John Tobin remarked on Saturday, "a seismic shift away from how things were done in the GAA". Children are going to be brought into the GAA fold in a user-friendly way, far removed from the dictatorial manner in which many people in charge of kids teams behaved in the past. It is a brave move, but is sure to work. Several surveys recently have shown that the main reason for children and teenagers dropping out of GAA games is the lack of fun. For the new scheme to succeed, it will be necessary for many mentors to change their attitude of bulldozing children into a 'win or fail' approach. The GAA has paid a high price for this approach in the past. Saturday's coaching conference also dealt with many other relevant matters and I was intrigued to learn that as regards physical fitness there has been a recent sea-change on what is considered best practice. One of the great GAA traditions, doing countless laps of the field in order to build up stamina, is now obsolete. So too is running up and down mountains in the middle of the night and other imaginative forms of punishment devised by managers and trainers over the years. The new mantra is that stamina training is the enemy of speed, and endurance training is now out because it interferes with the new philosophy regarding new forms of speed which have been proven to be most suitable for football and hurling. The theory is that the body strength which is undoubtedly needed for high-class performances should be acquired in the gym, not on the mountain. The strength acquired through year-round gym training programmes gives players the explosive power necessary for that initial burst over five metres, which is vital in football and hurling. Dr Kieran Moran and Jim Kilty gave short but brilliant expositions on these theories that must have impressed the coaches listening. To me, they certainly made admirable sense. Dr Niall Moyna gave a brilliant exposé, backed up by statistics from 2003 inter-county matches, on the lack of skill in county teams. In that year, teams won less than half their own kick-outs; 84 per cent of fouls were personal, mainly the result of poor tackling; and only 42 per cent of scoring chances from play were converted. "What are we doing at coaching sessions?" he asked plaintively. Having been asking the same question for years in these columns and beginning to think I was a voice in the wilderness, I was glad to hear that question coming from an acknowledged coaching expert such as Dr Moyna. Saturday, November 27, 2004 was a great day for the GAA. Mark it down!  Eugene McGee: Monday Focus e-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
