sport gaa
{  
    January 19 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/players-target-slice-of-croker-bonanza-26404810.html }
Cliona Foley THE Gaelic Players' Association have issued a stern warning to the GAA to share out the money from their historic deal with the IRFU and the FAI or else face a backlash from players. Even before the GAA had time to get smug over their new Croke Park cash cow, officials were brought thumping back to earth by the GPA's thinly-veiled threat to supports its calls for renumeration. "Our elite athletes in the GAA, we believe, rank alongside the best in other codes, stars who will now be on show to the Irish sports fan in the home of the GAA," said the hard-hitting statement. "Next year we will share a pitch with professionals and, we believe, few will notice the difference," it added. "The development and modernisation of the association is not just reflected in capital, bricks and mortar but also by the huge strides made by county panels in the last decade in the pursuit of higher goals and excellence." It is as blatant an ultimatum as the GPA has ever given to the GAA. "Players now have confirmation of the GAA's potential to add to its revenue streams. "In light of our ongoing negotiations with the GAA over inter-county player reimbursements, this potential is significant." While our top footballers and hurlers don't envy the mega earnings of superstars Damien Duff (?5m a year salary) or Brian O'Driscoll (?400,000), they feel entitled to a slice of the Croke Park action. The GAA hit back immediately, insisting that whatever revenue is raised by Croke Park rental is needed for other priorities and will be invested back into the games down to grass-root level. "This (the GPA's comment) was anticipated. "Most people will interpret it as an opportunistic premise to further the concept of pay-for-play," said GAA Press Officer Danny Lynch, a scathing comment which is sure to only infuriate the GPA further. The GPA's reaction to the new Croke Park 2007 deal was not surprising but certainly pulled no punches as the players claimed credit for helping to make Croke Park the big cash-earner it now is. The GPA said the historic agreement reflected the view held by the majority of players and grassroots GAA members. But while congratulating the GAA and Sean Kelly, in particular, for finally pulling it off, they then went straight for the jugular. They welcomed what they archly described as "confirmation of the GAA's potential to add to its revenue streams. 'Most people will interpret the GPA statement as an opportunistic premise to further the concept of pay-for-play.' "In light of our on-going negotiations with the GAA over inter-county player reimbursements, this potential is significant." The GPA pointed out that it is over 10 years since the first redevelopment of Croke Park was completed. "In the interim, it has been, primarily, our county hurlers and gaelic footballers that have helped fill the magnificent new stadium," the statement added pointedly. The GPA said its players "rank alongside the best in other codes," who will now be showcased in Croke Park. Pay-for-play, which many within the GAA believe is increasingly topping the GPA's agenda, was not mentioned, even though it and the possibility of a strike from disgruntled players,are increasingly being mentioned. The GPA called on the GAA to now weigh in behind their application for players to get annual grants from the government, something they are currently trying to negotiate via the Irish Sports Council. One of the country's marquee players Armagh Kieran McGeeney is the current GPA secretary. And he added his voice yesterday, saying the latest developments will inevitably increase the pressure on the GAA to respond to the players' demands. "Given the symbolism of professional rugby and soccer games going ahead at Croke Park, failure to secure funding will further alienate our members who are already greatly angered with the slow rate of progress on this issue," he stressed. Support "We urge the GAA to actively support our campaign to secure government funding via the sports grants scheme," he added. But the GAA rejected their demands forcefully yesterday. Lynch said the GPA was ignoring the fact that there are still outstanding major debts (of ?35 million) on Croke Park and that investment by counties in training and supporting players had increased hugely recently. "Spending on intercounty teams has not just increased by percentages but several 100 percentages recently yet the vast bulk of counties are roughly breaking even or just below that," Lynch said. He said anyone who studied the annual Croke Park reports would know that "there is rarely more than a token surplus because the money is reinvested," and pointed out that many provincial and club grounds were also in debt. Lynch said the players should also note that the GAA's priority is to reinvest any new income back into the game, whether facilities or players, at county or club level. "There is no logical connection between what happened on Tuesday and the players' demands for government grants, they are very different issues," he added. 
