sport gaa
{  
    January 28 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/gaa-must-beware-fruits-of-the-boom-26406434.html }
Traffic jams delaying the start of warm-up games in January, Championship attendances up 100 per cent in ten years and revenue rivers running atfull flood. It's bonanza time for the GAA but can it all last? Gaelic Games MEMO to oil salesmen. Call on GAA ground caretakers with a plentiful supply of your best products. You'll do good business. Note to rust remover experts. Scrub all GAA contacts from your list. They don't need you, not for the present at least. It's boom time for GAA attendances, leaving turnstiles whirring merrily. Regular lubrication is all they require while even the merest speck of rust is eradicated in minutes by the frantic action. Records The new season is speeding through warm-up competitions, the winners of which will be forgotten in a few weeks, but already attendance records are being set as supporters react to months of starvation. A crowd of 11,000 watched Donegal v Tyrone in Ballybofey last Sunday; around 8,000 enjoyed Dublin v Meath in Parnell Park while almost 7,000 turned out for Laois v Offaly in Portlaoise. All small by comparison with what the big championship action attracts but quite remarkable nonetheless, especially when compared with the turnout from leaner times. Try this for context. Last Sunday's Donegal-Tyrone attendance was three times larger than the crowd that watched the Derry-Cavan Ulster semi-final in 1985 and only 6,000 behind the crowd at the Down-Tyrone Ulster final of 1986. The last ten years have seen a dramatic increase in attendance figures, with the total turnout for the All-Ireland and provincial championships doubling to a stage where they have come very close to the two million mark. The new generation of GAA supporters will find it difficult to understand that it wasn't always so and that back in the early 1980s, the GAA was extremely worried about the downward attendance spiral. Even the big games weren't attracting the crowds. When the 1982 All-Ireland football semi-finals (Kerry v Armagh and Offaly v Galway) drew a combined total of just over 42,000, it was suggested that consideration be given to playing both games on the same day in subsequent years. Unquestionably, Kerry's dominance for so long had knocked the heart out of other counties whose supporters really didn't see much point in travelling to Croke Park unless for an All-Ireland final which is a special occasion in its own right. There were other factors too. Supporters had less disposable income; emigration was rampant; transport wasn't as readily accessible and the product wasn't as good. Also, the GAA kept 'live' TV coverage to a minimum on the basis that supporters wouldn't travel if they could watch games in their own homes. The opposite has proved to be the case but, in fairness to the GAA, that was the accepted wisdom of the time, even at international level. While it's impossible to be specific about what launched the GAA boom, there's evidence to suggest that the Dublin v Meath four-match saga in 1991 had a huge influence as it transcended the whole scene and became far more than just a Leinster championship game. Besides, the GAA broke with tradition and played the fourth game on a Saturday and also televised it 'live', turning it into a massive day for Irish sport. The arrival of Clare (1995) and Wexford (1996) were hugely significant in the hurling upsurge. Imaginative Meanwhile, the imaginative advertising input from main sponsors, Guinness, Bank of Ireland, Allianz, AIB and Vodafone all helped to further promote Gaelic games. So too did the massively expanded coverage in the print media. The introduction of 'back door' championships added extra impetus as did the redevelopment of Croke Park, where the big games have become events more than mere sporting contests. And if all that wasn't enough, the GAA enjoyed more luck when Armagh and Tyrone made the All-Ireland breakthrough. The Ulster boom has been so phenomenal that the attendance at tomorrow's McKenna Cup semi-final between Armagh and Tyrone in Casement is expected to be around 15,000. Truly remarkable. So then, it's all blue skies for the GAA as they bask under the hottest sun in their 122-year history? Not quite. A bonanza decade has inevitably put pressure on amateurism as players eye the riches that are streaming into the coffers. Even without pay-for-play, a total of 12 counties - Carlow, Down, Laois, Leitrim, London, Longford, Louth, Monaghan, Offaly, Roscommon, Sligo and Westmeath - were handed special grants of ?10,000 to help alleviate financial strains in 2004. While that's the reality of life in some counties, the overall income streams are bulging, which hasn't gone unnoticed by the GPA. The debate on amateurism is only beginning to warm up and unquestionably the hugely increased revenue will be central to GPA demands in future years. Another issue facing the GAA is the question of whether their earning capacity has peaked. Certainly, there were signs last year that the 'back door' football games had dipped in appeal, certainly in the earlier rounds. However, there were mitigating circumstances in that they didn't produce the usual quota of really exciting contests. Also, the turnout at the National Leagues hasn't kept pace with the championship surge, although the GAA has to take some responsibility for that. The failure to run properly graded Divisions has robbed the football League of such big crowd-pullers as Meath v Dublin, Tyrone v Armagh, Tyrone v Derry, Galway v Mayo, Kildare v Dublin, Dublin v Galway, Kerry v Armagh and Kerry v Galway. The current hurling League format means that there is no guarantee that such great clashes as Clare v Limerick, Cork v Tipperary, Kilkenny v Cork, Galway v Clare and Waterford v Kilkenny, Wexford v Kilkenny will take place, which is a scandalous waste of potential. Also, the decision to allow two League games to be screened live by TG4 every Sunday is questionable. Great service TG4 have done the League a great service over recent years but showing two games (one 'live' one deferred) offers a serious temptation to watch the action from home on a cold spring Sunday, especially when supporters can also tune in to English soccer games which, whether the GAA likes it or, are of massive interest all over Ireland. Still, the GAA has not only withstood the challenge of global sport being beamed into virtually every house but have actually managed to prosper in a manner which many thought was impossible 20 years ago. However, affluence brings its own challenges, ones which will leave the GAA facing some tricky decisions in the years to come. First, though, they can enjoy the warm glow which comes from knowing that a Dr McKenna Cup semi-final in late January 2006 will attract considerably more than major championship games did 20 years ago. 
