sport gaa
{ By MARTIN BREHENY 
    August 28 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/croke-park-may-open-up-to-soccer-and-rugby-26112614.html }
ROY KEANE and Keith Wood could be on their way to  playing international soccer and rugby in Croke Park. A dramatic move which would lift the automatic ban on the use of GAA pitches by other sports will be made at the GAA's Special Congress in Dublin on October 7. A Laois motion, which was deferred at the annual Congress in Galway last April, proposes changing the rules relating to who can make decisions on the use of GAA property. They want such powers to be handed to Central Council, which would make an easing of the restrictions on pitch usage far more likely than under the current regulations. GAA rules prevent its property being used for purposes ``which are in conflict with the aims and objects of the association.'' Soccer and rugby come under that heading on the basis that they are in competition with the GAA for players. However, in a cleverly drafted proposal, which was drawn up by the Shanahoe club in Laois, the Special Congress will be asked to grant Central Council the power to ``set aside aspects of the above rule in certain circumstances.'' Effectively, it would remove the veto on soccer and rugby being played on GAA pitches and allow Central Council to decide what constituted ``special circumstances.'' The GAA have come under pressure in the past to allow pitches be used for one-off soccer games.  PROPOSED This included Healy Park in Omagh which was proposed as a venue for a soccer game to raise revenue for the Omagh Bomb fund. It would have taken a Congress vote to grant permission for such a game but, if the Laois motion is accepted in October, a hastily convened Central Council meeting could make the decision. As Central Council usually takes its cue from the Management Committee, the Laois motion effectively proposes that decisions as to the use of GAA property be handed over to a select band of senior GAA officials, led by president Sean McCague and Director-General Liam Mulvihill. That, in turn, could encourage other organisations - notably the Irish Rugby Football Union - to approach the GAA for the use of the redeveloped Croke Park. The GAA has no ideological differences with the IRFU because of its 32-county structure. However, there would be opposition to allowing soccer into Croke Park because of its divided status in this country. The possibility of renting Croke Park to other organisations was raised by former GAA president Peter Quinn at Congress last April. Quinn, a financial expert who has a major input into the Croke Park redevelopment project, stunned delegates by suggesting that all options would have to examined, including renting the stadium to outsiders.  DEMANDS Senior GAA officials are also worried over the financial demands of servicing the redeveloped Croke Park. It will cost around £2m per year, yet Croke Park will not house any major GAA games between the end of September and St Patrick's Day. A deal with the IRFU would make financial sense for the GAA as the rugby season kicks in at the end of the hurling and football championships. The IRFU have already given their backing to the Government's National Stadium project but if the GAA eased their restrictions on the use of Croke Park, a deal could be struck. The FAI are still committed to building their own stadium, although there are increasing doubts about the viability of Eircom Park. But if the GAA did a deal with the IRFU, it would provide a major financial windfall for Croke Park. A minimum of three internationals take place in Dublin every winter and while rugby fans may have an emotional tie with Lansdowne Road, it is no longer up the standard required for a major international sporting organisation. When completed, Croke Park will accommodate almost 80,000 fans in an all-seater environment and, crucially from an IRFU viewpoint, will also have massive facilities for corporate entertainment. While there is bound to be opposition from some GAA sectors to any proposal which might ultimately lead to soccer and rugby being played in Croke Park, there is a growing sense of reality that the redeveloped stadium will be costly to run and that lining up a deal with other sports is becoming an increasingly attractive option. A clear indication as to whether the GAA is ready for change on the pitch use issue will become very apparent on October 7. 
