sport gaa
{  
    February 01 2013 02:35 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/sport/gaa/grassroots-29027917.html }
ASHFORD Lotto results for week ended January 21 - numbers drawn: 2, 11, 14, 17. Jackpot: €19,000. No winner. Match 3 winners: 14 at €43 each - K Brophy (D O'Brien), V and A O'Flaherty (T Snell), Joey Driver (S Driver), Peter King x2 (King's), Jack Duffy (Rocky's), Esther Carthy (S McDermott), P and A Doyle (V Doyle), John Doyle (V Doyle), Grainne O'Neill (S O'Neill), Charles Merrigan (L Phelan), Teresa O'Brien (R Byrne), Irene Doyle (S McDermott), Robert Egre (GPO). Seller's draw: Maura Nugent and GPO. Next committee meeting is on February 15. The play-off match against Valleymount again fell foul of the weather. County Board GAA raffle tickets are now on sale from any committee member. Cost is €50 for three draws. First prize in each draw is €10,000. There will also be an internal draw for people who buy a ticket from Ashford GAA club. You have until end of March to get your ticket. Why not join up with a friend/family member etc. and buy one jointly. EIRE OG GREYSTONES Annual Dinner Dance - Just to tell you to be putting the few bob aside for the club's annual Dinner Dance which has been arranged for February 22 in The Parkview Hotel, Newtown. Juniors of 2003 - In the course of conversation one was reminded that 2013 is the 10th anniversary of their glorious and hugely significant county championship win. In this the year of The Gathering one thinks that a getting together of these players in the Autumn would be wholly appropriate. Mouthguards - As an earnest of its long-term commitment to player welfare the GAA is making the wearing of mouthguards compulsory, in games and practice sessions, for all players of Gaelic football. The rule came into force at underage, up to and including Minor, on January 1 and will extend to adults from January 2014. We learn from the information circulated by the juvenile cathaoirleach, Colm Dorgan, that the incidents of dental injury in Ireland are among the highest in the EU and that one third of these are sports related. Included in the information is an important caveat viz. oral injuries incurred while not wearing a mouthguard are not covered by the player injury scheme. GAA/GPA mouthguards, both "boil and bite" and custom fitted, are being circulated through Supervalu, Centra, Lifestyle, Elverys and O'Neills. The former are already available while the others will be available shortly. Research of the market has shown that these mouthguards, supplied by OPRO, are the best product available in terms of quality, certification and value for money. Gaelic abroad - Recently during a rare few moments of idleness, while peregrinating through some websites with sport-related content, one happened on the headline "Tiki-Taka Gaelic football? GAA to invade La Liga action next week". (Joe.ie) A visit to Wikipedia enlightened one as to the meaning of this strange hyphenated combination, Tiki-Taka. It is apparently a nonsense expression coined in 2006 by a Spanish broadcaster to describe the type of soccer favoured by Johann Cruff during his time at Barcelona and which involves a short passing game aimed at retaining possession and patiently awaiting the right opportunity - the writer was obviously being tongue in cheek! It seems that the local Gaelic team, Éire Óg Seville, has been invited to play a half-time exhibition game on the night (28-01-13) Sevilla play Granada. No doubt those of our own who see little merit in Gaelic football and who affectionately refer to it as 'bogball' will shudder with embarrassment at the thought of this inferior brand of big-ball game, carrying the tag 'Irish', finding its way onto such hallowed turf before such discerning spectators. These will be pleased to know that the Sevilla invitation to Éire Óg is not a purely philanthropic gesture and that they are using it as a marketing ploy to entice members of the large Irish diaspora in the area to become supporters of the club. On the night, the entrance fee for Irish passport holders is a mere €5, the tricolour will be flown, Irish music will be played agus beidh an cúpla focal le cloisint. The coiste of Éire Óg Seville, on the other hand who, it goes without saying are awake to the charms of the Gaelic game, see the potential for its being appreciated by a populace free of prejudice and are delighted with the opportunity to make the sport better known. Go n-eirí an t-ádh leo! NEWCASTLE The AGM of Newcastle GAA club will take place on Tuesday February 19 in Newcastle Community Centre. Anyone interested in putting themselves forward for any of the positions for the coming year (Chairman, secretary, treasurer, PRO etc), please contact the current chairman Damien O'Neill or the current secretary Gerry Heffernan. Training for the Junior A football team will recommence in early February. Congratulations to 'Lord Mayor' Pat Carey on getting three numbers in the GAA lotto draw on January 21. The ticket was sold by Newcastle's number one ticket seller, Liam Doyle. DUNLAVIN There was no winner of the lotto last week. The lotto is now a whopping €13,400. Buy a ticket for €2 and support the future running of our club. The numbers last week were 2, 5, 14, and 15. Terry Allen has been appointed as the new Intermediate manager for 2013, his selectors will be Mick Murtagh, Damien Moore and Martin Caplis. The manager of the Junior team for 2013 is Ronan Byrne and his selectors will be Mick Murtagh, Ed Rigley and James Travers. We would like to wish both management teams and their players all the best in 2013. Club membership for 2013 is now due, membership is €20 for non players and €40 for players. New members are warmly welcome. Membership can be paid to any committee member. Anyone interested in advertising a business in the GAA grounds? Cost of a sign for the first year is €150 and €100 per annum thereafter. Further details can be obtained by contacting Conor Miley or James Whittle. The club would like to wish both the Wicklow footballers and hurlers the best of luck in their upcoming league campaigns. We hope that both teams can have a successful campaign in preparation for the championship. The club would like to extend its deepest sympathy to the Carty, Deering and Kirwin families on the recent deaths of Johnny Carty, Gemma O'Loughlin and Sheila Kirwin. Club gear on sale and available to anyone looking for the ideal gift or even to treat themselves. The list includes caps, watches, polo shirts, jackets and hoodies. Keep up to date with all of the news with Dunlavin GAA Facebook page, just log on and 'Like' and join in the craic, news and banter with our friends and family from home and abroad. BARNDARRIG Special general meeting to be held in Barndarrig National School on Monday February 4 at 7.30pm sharp followed by a committee meeting afterwards. A full list of new committee members will follow. The Barndarrig GAA club dinner dance will take place on Saturday February 23 in Jack White's at 8pm. Tickets are €25 each or two for €40. A four-course meal and music can be enjoyed. Tickets can be purchased from any committee member. Barndarrig ladies football training kicked of last Tuesday night. Anybody interested in joining or returning can do so by going up to Barndarrig GAA pitch Tuesdays and Thursday nights from 7.45pm untill 8.45pm and on Saturday mornings from 11.30am until 12.30pm. All welcome. Men's adult training will be returning in the next week or two, more details to follow. Tickets are available for the Garden County Development Draw. It's a three monthly draw at a cost of €50 for the three months. Contact chairman James Crowley on 087 2166864. The club would like to thank Michael Murphy, Wesley Crowley, Kevin Dempsey, Keith Bradshaw for bringing the cups to all three schools, Barndarrig National School, Redcross and Brittas Bay and a special thanks to the teachers for letting this go ahead. Full details on juveniles and membership next week . ST NICHOLAS Congratulations to Barry Miley who received the Wicklow Minor player of the year award at the annual Wicklow GAA awards. This was a great achievement and a well deserved award for his performances throughout the championship. If there is anyone interested in completing a referees course in February please contact any member of the St. Nicholas committee. NEWTOWN Commencement of training - In preparation for the season ahead and following a very productive players meeting during the week the Senior players are first back to the field; training takes place on Tuesday February 5. With the Senior league starting in just under a month and with the Senior championship starting early this year on 21 April, Newtown Senior training will begin in earnest under the management team of Peter O'Neill, Dominic Leech and Shay Power. The club would like to wish all involved the best of luck and hopefully it will be a very successful year, we also have a lot of lads who will make their debut in senior football in 2013 best of luck lads. Coaching Courses - The Foundation Award is the introductory award for coaches of Gaelic Games. The course is aimed at beginner coaches and will enable participants to assist a coach in the organisation of activities to develop hurling or football. The course is seven and a half hours in duration and covers four key modules, as well as introductory and conclusion modules. These four modules are: 1 - Introduction to Games; 2 - Skill Development; 3 - Movement Skills; 4 - Coaching Children, Youths and Adults. Participation is highly recommended for any of our adult players who are looking to get involved in coaching. If you are a coach or would like to get involved in coaching in the coming year and you do not have this cert please contact Paul O'Riordan so a course can be arranged. Mouthguards - The compulsory use of a mouth guards in Gaelic football matches and training sessions for all age grades, up to and including minor, is due to come into effect from January 1. The mandatory use of mouth guards at U-21 and adult level will commence from January 1, 2014. The Fureys and Davey Arthur are playing in the Parkview hotel this coming Saturday at 8pm. All proceeds to Newtown ladies football all support is greatly welcomed The club are currently upgrading the website www.newtowngaa.ie all suggestions for the website or any items for the Newtown notes are very welcome please contact Lisa Fahey at lisafahey1@gmail.com or alternatively text or call 0868736043. AVONDALE The club membership fee is now due, and registration for adults will take place on Tuesday January 29 and Friday February 1 from 7.30-8.30pm. Juvenile registration will take place on Saturday February 2 from 11am - 1pm, and on Friday Febraury 9 from 7.30 - 9pm. All registration will be held in Avondale GAA complex. Any member who will not be available on these dates can contact Craig Cahill on 086 3593907. The membership fee for all adult players is €80, and is €40 for anyone who is unemployed. Any adult non-playing member will pay €50. Enrolment for all juvenile players will cost €30 for the first child and €15 for each child after that. If you wish to play this year, your membership must be paid by Thursday February 28. As of January 1, 2013, all age groups from U-6 to Minor level, playing Gaelic football must wear protective mouthgaurds in order to comply with regulations from Croke Park. The club will now be stocking official GAA mouthgaurds, which be available on registration nights at a price of €8 for bronze and €15 for silver. Don't forget to keep your diary free for the club's Dinner Dance on Saturday February 23 in the Woodenbridge Hotel. Tickets are priced at €25 and you can book your ticket by contacting the secretary Craig Cahill or any member of the committee. Training for all adult players will commence on Monday February 4 in Avondale GAA complex. Any child who is aged four or five years old and is interested in joining the Avondale GAA Nursery club for the coming year can contact Liam Kelly on 087-6878123. ARKLOW ROCK PARNELLS We had a great turn out at our first Senior hurling meeting of 2013 which included Junior and Minor players as well. It showed that adult hurling is alive and kicking in the club. It was fantastic to see so many Minor players there which bodes well for the future. The timetable for training is as follows - Mondays at 7.30pm, Tuesdays at 8pm, Thursdays at 7.30pm and Sundays at 10am. Training on Tuesdays is core training only and will run for 10 weeks. Senior and Junior players will train together and will be joined by the Minors when they are available. We would like to welcome Shane O'Hanlon onto the Senior team set up. Shane will be training the team this year and is very well qualified for this position. Best of luck Shane. The Juvenile AGM will take place at 7.30pm this Friday Feburary 1 in the clubhouse. All interested parties are asked to attend; parents of players are especially requested to attend. Unfortunately our U-6 and U-8's training last Friday had to be cancelled due to adverse weather conditions. Training will be on again this Friday from 6.30 to 7.30pm under lights on the all weather pitch. Hopefully the weather will be kinder to us this week. Best of luck to all the clubs teams young and old on the hurling field this year and have fun playing this wonderful game of ours. Like us on Facebook at 'Arklow Rock Parnells GAA Club' to keep up to date with the latest club news and engage with the club and fellow supporters. BALLYMANUS There was no lotto jackpot winner for the draw held Monday January 21. The numbers drawn were 8, 15, 20, and 25, with three lucky match three winners. Club membership is now due. Players cost €30, juveniles and non-players €10. Finally a word of thanks, from Anna Byrne, to all that supported her table quiz fundraiser last weekend. A special word of thanks to Michael as MC, all those that entered teams or donated spot prizes and to the O'Toole family for the use of the premises. STRATFORD-GRANGECON Lotto Results for Monday January 21 - The winning numbers are 05, 15, 18, and 25. The jackpot is €11,000, no jackpot winner. There were six match three winners who won €45 each. They were: James Barrett, Glenview, Stratford (Seller: James Barrett); John Gallagher, c/o Bam (Seller: Pat Bollard); Mick Kehoe, Grangecon Hill (Seller: Tracey Norton); Jason Plunkett, c/o Bam (Seller: Pat Bollard); Christina Bermudez, Kilcullen (Seller: Pkt Cronin Junior); Fiona Cronin, Grangecon (Seller: Jim Cronin); Sellers prize: Margaret Dunne and Anthony McDermott The Junior West Winter League will resume on Sunday February 3, details of opponents to be confirmed. This is to allow all the clubs time to register players and teams for 2013. Please contact Annette Mangan on 086 8462771 to renew membership, cost of €30 per adult including €20 gear voucher included in the price. A three-weekly payment system can also be agreed. Our juvenile registration information evening/day will be coming within the next few weeks COOLKENNO Coolkenno Juveniles held its annual awards evening in Ballyconnell Hall on Saturday January 26. All players, from U-8 to Minor, received a certificate for their hard work and dedication during 2012. Medals were also given to the U-8s and U-10s for their participation in the Go-Games during the year. Players who represented the club in skills competitions around the county were also presented with a medal. Special guests for the evening were county footballers Paddy Dalton, Darragh O'Sullivan and Dean Healy. Darragh and Dean, who both play for St. Patrick's, brought along the Miley Cup to remind us all what it looks like! A big thank you to all three for making the time to be in attendance and best of luck for the coming year. Thanks also to everyone who made the evening such a success. KILTEGAN Well done to our county hurlers on another great win in the Kehoe Cup, this time against DCU in Bray on Sunday. Well done to our own Geoffrey Bermingham who had a great game. Best of luck to our county football team who play Fermanagh in the first game of the National League on Sunday in Aughrim. Membership is now due for all members and players and also for gym users - adult membership €30, student €20 and family membership €50. Family membership includes two adults and up to four children U-16. Final date for payment is February 28. If gym users have not paid their membership by this date, entry to the gym will be denied for insurance reasons. The gathering of Kiltegan GAA Club and Kiltegan Camogie Club 2013 Celebration Dinner will take place in Talk of the Town on Saturday March 23 at 7.30pm sharp. Music by DJ Brian Flynn, tickets €15. A great night will be had with presentation of medals to various teams; a raffle will also take place on the night. Tickets are available from Pat Keogh 086 8454356, Damien Byrne 087 6792761, Paula Boland 086 6861271, Siobhan Doyle 087 2372050 or Talk of the Town. Our club send their sincere sympathy to the Whyte family Glen of Imaal and the Kirwan family Mountkelly, Rathvilly, on their recent bereavements. Juveniles - Indoor hurling is on every Tuesday night in the hall in Hacketstown. U-8's at 6.30pm to 7.15pm and U-10's and U-12's from 7.15pm to 8.15pm - all welcome. A great night was had at the juvenile presentation last Sunday in the hall thanks to our guests Peter Keogh, Dave Murray, Paul Garrigan and James Stafford for coming. A big thanks to former Kiltegan player Raymond Byrne for bringing Kilkenny sub-goalkeeper Eoin Murphy and the Liam MacCarthy Cup to Kiltegan. A special thanks to everyone who helped on the night especially Pat Judy Keogh, Grainne O'Toole, Katrina Byrne and Siobhan Doyle. West Wicklow Hurling meeting has been changed to January 31 in Dunlavin at 8.15pm. Juvenile committee members will travel to the meeting. Lotto - no winner. Winning numbers were - 01, 02, 13, and 21. Match three winners: Niall Gartland, PJ Reilly, Des Foley, Ruby Connelly, Sarah Rose Rafferty and Liz Timmins. Next jackpot €17,600. Next draw takes place in Juniors on Monday at 10pm. CARNEW EMMETS Whoever is last to leave Carnew on Saturday evening will they please turn out the lights because almost the entire population will be in the Amber Springs Hotel in Gorey for the Bash for Cash 2013 fundraiser against Craanford GAA Club. All tickets for this superb event are now gone so to the 900 lucky punters who will be filing through the doors come Saturday evening we hope you all have a wonderful night and please shout and cheer to the best of your abilities. those boxers in the ring have given it their all over the past two months for the betterment of their clubs. 
