sport gaa
{ Eugene Moloney and Bill Corcoran 
    April 08 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ahern-to-face-dail-grilling-on-no-strings-cash-for-gaa-26089509.html }
THE GAA is to get a further £70m in funding on top of the  £60m announced by Taoiseach Bertie Ahern for Croke  Park. But Mr Ahern could face tough questioning in the Dail tomorrow over his no-strings £60m Croke Park handout after it emerged that the matter does not appear to have been formally presented at cabinet. Although the necessary cabinet documents in relation to the £60m funding have yet to be signed, a Government spokesperson stressed the Tanaiste Mary Harney had been consulted. According to the Government, the £70m will be paid at the rate of £10m annually under the National Lottery funded Sports Capital programme for the next seven years, as part of a commitment to games development and capital projects nationwide. What has angered opposition TD's is not just the timing of the £60m announcement by the Taoiseach, coming as it did just the day before the GAA voted on whether to allow other sports to use Croke Park, but his insistence on pressing ahead with plans for a separate national stadium. There was also criticism from the opposition parties that following the announcement of the extra cash, delegates to Saturday's GAA Congress narrowly defeated a motion to open up Croke Park to non-GAA sports. PD Chairman John Minihan said although he was a staunch GAA supporter he was more than a little taken aback that the organisation had not responded to such a sizeable donation by opening its doors to other sports. Describing the Government's motives as "bewildering" he said it did seem hypocritical to refuse Lotto funding to golf clubs who bar women from membership, and then to give such a sum to an organisation which does not allow other sports to use Croke Park. He added "any sporting organisation getting that amount of money would have caused an eyebrow to be raised". Labour's Sports spokesman Brian O'Shea described the timing of the Croke Park funding announcement and the context in which it was made as amounting to "almost a bribe on the part of the Government." Like his Fine Gael counterpart Jimmy Deenihan, he was strongly critical of the Taoiseach's seeming determination to press ahead with plans for a National Sports Stadium which is now reckoned could cost as much as £1bn. Mr O'Shea described the Taoiseach's pursuit of this goal as "obsessional" while Mr Deenihan said Mr Ahern seemed almost "fanatical" about proceeding with the alternative sports arena. Mr Deenihan urged the Taoiseach to have "a serious rethink" on Stadium Ireland and suggested the joint Oireachtas Committee on Tourism Sport and Recreation should be asked to carry out a detailed examination and evaluation of the cost of proceeding with the plan. Although the Taoiseach said on RTE radio yesterday he felt it was inevitable that Croke Park will be opened up to non-GAA sporting events Mr Deenihan said it would have been better for the organisation had they achieved the required majority to amend the controversial rule 42. The former Kerry footballer said it was his understanding that the decision to give money to Croke Park had been taken several weeks ago. He said while the organisation certainly deserved the money, there also should be some reciprocation to the public who were paying the money. Mr Ahern said that he was disappointed that the GAA delegates had failed to mandate the GAA's central council to open up Croke Park to other field games such as rugby and soccer. "The GAA spent £200 million developing Croke Park and got themselves in major financial difficulties, and we had to bail them out," he said. Mr Ahern claimed that if the Government had not bailed Croke Park out of its financial debt then it would have been its one million members and 20,000 teams that would have suffered. 
