sport gaa
{  
    April 14 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/player-grants-hit-new-snag-26286875.html }
DERMOT CROWE and DAMIAN LAWLOR GAA players' hopes of receiving grant assistance this year have suffered a blow as it has emerged that the Government is seeking further clarification on the proposed use of the ?5million funding. The news will increase speculation that the matter is being fudged with a general election around the corner. This latest twist in the on-going saga means that the prospect of GAA players receiving grants of up to ?3,500 in time for this year's championship is now looking increasingly unlikely. Despite submitting a joint proposal on the implementation of the grant aid system well over a week ago, the GPA and the GAA have yet to receive any official feedback on the subject. Contacted yesterday, a spokesman for the Department of Arts, Sports and Tourism said that it was "not clear" what the GAA's intentions were and that the manner in which the money is used has to "follow certain guidelines". He said that they were in the process of writing to the GAA to seek clarification. Efforts to raise the matter at a Central Council meeting on Friday night were not entertained, giving the impression that there had been no new developments. But yesterday, addressing player welfare issues at Congress, GAA president Nicky Brennan admitted that there was confusion over the Government's intentions. "Despite public pronouncements attributed to Government sources, we have had difficulty in achieving clarity or the required confirmation of what precise funding would potentially be made available and how precisely any such funding would be allocated and could be administered within the norms, guidelines and regulations generally applied by the Controller and Auditor General in respect of exchequer funding. "In this context, we have been informed that funding could potentially be forthcoming from three separate departmental subheads, Sports Capital Funding, Games Development Funding and Sports Council Funding, which from a GAA perspective would be conditional on being additional to any funding the association currently receives and which would be administered by the association." He said the fundamental issues were whether or not they would accept an offer of funding from the Government and if the use of that on welfare issues compromised the organisation's amateur status. "We are happy that both fundamentals are addressed in our submission and will be addressed in any future administration involved," he said. "It has been done on the basis that any funding forthcoming will be additional to funding currently being allocated to the association from the exchequer, that there will be a guarantee of continuity on an annual basis, that it will apply to expenditure being incurred by inter-county panels of 30 players and be an addition to any player welfare expenditure currently being met by our association. "In this regard I must stress that in excess of ?18m was spent by county units on player related activities last year, plus another ?7.2m by way of payments to players from the GAA Player Injury Scheme. We now await a response from the Minister and his Department in relation to our submission." It is interesting to note that we now have both sides seemingly waiting for further clarification from the other, suggesting an impasse of sorts. The Government's need for further clarification on the ?5m funding, saying monies are being made available for "infrastructural projects possibly including player welfare", suggests the issue is not being treated with much expediency - and time is rapidly running out. If it is not sorted before the election, then the grants issue that the GPA has spent six years lobbying for could be back to square one. The current minister may not hold the office and the same government may not even be in power by the summer. While other parties have looked favourably on the GPA's proposals, a change of government will mean that players may have to begin a fresh campaign. The red tape is causing serious frustration for the players who have in the past threatened to strike due to the slow pace of negotiations. Nearly two weeks ago, the GPA and GAA finally united to agree a system of distributing the pledged ?5m in government funding to hurlers and footballers throughout the 32 counties. Their joint-submission was then handed into the department. While GPA officials say they have no reason to doubt that the money will be forthcoming, citing assurances from Minister O'Donoghue, there is now a feeling at the top level in Croke Park that the issue will be stalled until after the general election at least. A leading official said before the start of the Annual Congress yesterday that the GAA's biggest concern was that it would left be carrying the can if the Government did not follow through. "Having to foot the bill, that's the GAA's biggest worry," he said, "but as things stand there is not much discussion on it, or even interest, as we are not picking up the tab. It's like where you will go for a few drinks if the other person is paying." The issue is causing tensions within the department, however, where some fear that grant aid for GAA inter-county players would discriminate against other sports, and even ladies' football and camogie. It was noteworthy how quickly the ladies' associations moved to assert their rights to a share of the finances once news of a deal being struck between the GAA and GPA emerged. While the GPA would argue that they are not two sides of the same coin, it still has the potential to cause grave political difficulties for the Government. The GPA insists that the Minister for Sport has already pledged his support of grant monies to players, provided an agreement on how to distribute them could be reached with the GAA. That moment has now arrived. When contacted earlier in the week, the department had nothing to say when asked about the future of the ?5m funding. "We have received a proposal from the GPA and the GAA and the matter is currently under consideration," said an official Government spokesperson. "Until a decision is taken we have no further comment to make on the matter." After putting so much time and effort into the proposal, the GPA will keep up the pressure in the hope that the grants may start this year, but with the election just weeks away, it's unlikely that such a promise will be delivered that quickly. One ray of light that the money could yet filter through is the fact that the GPA chief executive, Dessie Farrell, recently spoke to Minister O'Donoghue, and received no indication that the project was in peril, as was suggested last week. Armagh star and GPA secretary Kieran McGeeney has also urged the Sports Minister to keep his side of the bargain. "Grants have been available to Gaelic games for over 15 years, and big grants, for grounds or whatever. I just hope all the work that's been done over the past number of years now hasn't gone to waste, and that the Government will keep their half of the bargain," he said. At yesterday's Congress, Brennan also touched on the GPA's demand for official recognition. "Of necessity, the process must, and will take some time, probably up to the end of this year as the issues are broad and the implications fundamental," he said. "They are taking place on the clear understanding that the amateur status and ethos of our association cannot in any way be undermined or compromised." 
