sport gaa
{ Geraldine Collins Dail  Correspondent 
    April 10 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ahern-admits-60m-gaa-deal-not-clear-to-pd-leader-26089704.html }
TAOISEACH Bertie Ahern admitted yesterday in the Dail, amid strong criticism from the Opposition, that the announcement on the controversial decision to allocate  £60m to the GAA had been more rushed than would normally have been the case. He also said that his partners in Government - the PD's - did not have "the full facts". But he said none of the meetings about the issue were secret and many had been covered in the media. However, he said "clearly the meeting we had last week and the final offer was not clear, and certainly was not clear to the Tanaiste". He apologised for any breakdown in communications over the controversial decision. He had understood the GAA Congress of last Saturday might have been called off for obvious reasons (foot-and-mouth) but that was not the case. It went ahead without some delegates from Co Louth. "The association was anxious to inform its organisations and delegates of the details of the stage reached in discussions with the Government which have all taken place in good faith." Mr Ahern gave the Dail a list of dates on which the meetings were held. "We thought that was a reasonable, practical and courteous thing to do so I issued the letters on that basis." However, he said he did not believe they broke any Cabinet procedures "because the position we took was that we would finalise the discussions". The Government discussed the recent developments about funding for sport yesterday morning, he told the Dail to an uproar from the Opposition benches. Defending Sports Campus Ireland, he said it reflects the policy of providing a comprehensive range of facilities. "The funding offers made in good faith to the FAI and the GAA will be honoured on the basis of the letters conveying those offers but the Government believes, and I reiterated, that where sporting facilities are funded by the taxpayers, those facilities should be shared as widely as possible to the benefit of the whole community." He said the legal discussions will continue and the offer of financial assistance to the GAA and the FAI will be pursued in that context because it is not just a question of Croke Park but a question of using these facilities throughout the country. Fine Gael TD Alan Dukes said the Taoiseach found himself in "bad faith, bad standing and bad odour with the GAA, the Tanaiste, the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, the members of the Government and all the rules of Cabinet procedure". He accused Mr Ahern of playing "fast and loose" with rules designed to protect taxpayers money. Labour Leader deputy Ruairi Quinn said the GAA had provided wonderful service over many years and when they were on the verge of making an historic decision which would reflect the new ethos embodied in the Good Friday Agreement, the Taoiseach made a deliberate intervention to thwart that decision and reverse it. He said the Taoiseach was motivated to cynically intervene at the eleventh hour without informing his so-called partners in Government "who are locked in at the back of the bus and can't get out", in order to prevent the GAA from expressing a democratic decision in a particular manner. Meanwhile, the chairman of the Leinster Council of the GAA yesterday warned that Croke Park might never be opened to outside sports unless Mary Harney backs off in her demands on the organisation. The Tanaiste, Ms Harney, said on Monday night that the new £60m was "still up for negotiation" and could depend on whether the GAA was willing to open Croke Park. Seamus Alderidge, who is in favour of letting other sporting organisations use the stadium, said: "If the Tanaiste is saying that she is adding strings or going to force the GAA to do something before they get money, I should tell her that she is going down the road of ensuring that Croke Park will never be opened." He said he understood a deal had been done between the Government and the GAA on the controversial £60m grant. Mr Aldridge said the deal was made before the GAA narrowly voted to maintain its ban on outside sports from using the stadium. He said the GAA would have voted for the change if the grant had not been announced the previous day. "I think if it (the money) hadn't come through when it did, we wouldn't be having this conversation at all." 
