sport gaa
{ DARRAGH McMANUSE 
    January 30 2010 04:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/is-this-the-gaas-guiltiest-secret-26627688.html }
r The O'Byrne Cup, presumably, was unused to all the attention. One of the GAA's early-season competitions -- nobody really cares about winning but teams get to see where they stand -- is normally characterised by small crowds, even smaller public interest and infinitesimal press coverage. Not so this week, as Sunday's O'Byrne Cup match between Kildare and Laois made front pages as well as the sports pages. Seven footballers were sent off and a mass brawl involving almost every man on the pitch turned this inconsequential event into a short-lived riot. Our own sports writers described the day's events as 'GUBU': surely the worst denunciation in the Irish lexicon. All week it reverberated, with GAA chiefs and commentators pondering big questions: what action must now be taken? Do we need to overhaul our disciplinary system? In truth, it was really just a storm in a teacup, and probably wouldn't have attracted so much attention if this wasn't such an uneventful time of year. A few pucks were thrown, a bit of pushing and shoving; nobody was seriously hurt. Indeed, hardly anyone is ever hurt in a donnybrook; individual acts of violence -- elbows to the face, late pulls with the hurley -- are more dangerous. And Gaelic games have a long history of mass argy-bargy on the field. This writer's book, GAA Confidential, mentions a melee as far back as 1893, during the All-Ireland hurling final between Cork and Wexford. Reverse the digits and the sport, and the 1983 football final between Dublin and Galway saw four red cards and a bust-up in the tunnel underneath the Hogan. And so it's gone throughout the GAA's 12 decades. The more famous brawls include: Louth and Laois's fractious Leinster football semi in 1991; the Semplegate affair involving Cork and Clare hurlers three years ago; Dublin's football league rumbles with Tyrone in 2006 and Meath in '08; and Meath and Mayo's All-Ireland football final reply in 1996, which regressed from match to ruction to anarchy to farce. Two key points need to be made: one, trouble at GAA matches is exclusively restricted to the playing field; and two, most folks aren't all that bothered by it. It's not ideal, but it's not such a big deal either. A vox-pop of people about the Laois-Kildare imbroglio drew the following, pretty indifferent responses: "Always happens at this time of year; doesn't really matter"; "The usual old nonsense -- send them all off and that'll put a stop to it"; "These games in January are rubbish anyway, at least a fight livens it up." Online, too, the reaction was muted: on the popular GAA forum anfearrua.com, one contributor wrote: "Think the ref got it a bit wrong to go for the nuclear option after the brawl, although there was some proper digs going in ... Yellow (cards) each, I'd say. No real skelps there." On Laois.com a spectator wrote: "(It) doesn't make it right to fight like that but it was the only exciting part of the match." So here are some bigger questions: do GAA folk love a punch-up? Why do they seem more common than in other sports? Is it to do with the tribal, almost atavistic, nature of amateur competition, in which you play not for money but for pride of place -- often against your neighbours? Tyrone man Donal McAnallen co-edited the historical work The Evolution of the GAA, published before Christmas. He succeeded this writer as editor of GAA magazine High Ball during the last decade, and has written a number of academic articles about the history of Gaelic games, so is well-placed to comment. "I think it's true some people love a good row at a game, although they mightn't admit it," Donal says. "But it's not a uniquely Irish phenomenon: it seems to be a widespread masculine instinct to want to watch a punch-up, as long as nothing dirty is introduced." In GAA, he reckons, some contributory factors include the fact that "there are more players on the field than in soccer, which increases the possibility of brawling; the fact that players are amateur means they have less to lose from being sent off; and parochial rivalries between neighbouring teams are a significant factor in flare-ups in club games". Brian McDonnell is sports editor of the Limerick Leader and a fervent Tipperary supporter (there's a delicate balancing act). He's been cheering or reporting from sidelines across Munster for years, and admits "it's an unfortunate truth that a punch-up is capable of improving a contest. But considering the battle going on for kids (with other sports), the GAA are going to have to do something drastic about violence". "This time of the year is definitely the most violent. With the championship so far away, players can settle old scores, confident that if they get suspended, there's plenty of time before the business end of the year. And referees don't want to send anyone off around this time." A third opinion -- or diagnosis, maybe -- comes from Dr Tadhg MacIntyre, who lectures in sports psychology at the University of Ulster. He has consulted with inter-county Gaelic teams as well as Olympic athletes and professional rugby players. Tadhg says: "Thankfully, violence among fans in GAA is not tolerated. But players can feel there are three sets of rules: the book, the referee's interpretation of those and the players' own code. It's only considered 'cheating' if the player's code is broken. So jersey-tugging, tussling, even throwing a dig is acceptable, whereas kicking a player on the ground is out. "As spectators, we change our emotions and physiology on a neural level; we share the emotion of the players. So when players in a hyper-aroused state respond violently, we are not far behind them. We know it's wrong, but enjoy the experience for a few seconds. Then our social norms kick in." And sooner a group of fit young men throwing shapes at each other on the field than hordes of feral hooligans throwing parts of the stadium at each other off it. Besides which, what better way for them to keep warm on a chilly February afternoon? Irish Independent 
