sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    January 14 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/gaa-recognises-that-player-power-is-here-to-stay-26061463.html }
THE change of attitude within the power structures of the  GAA at the highest level regarding their attitude to  inter-county players in the past couple of years has been fascinating to observe. When the Gaelic Players' Association was set up under the direction of Donal O'Neill, the first reaction of GAA officialdom was the same as it was any other time players tried to form an organisation of their own a mixture of open hostility, an attitude of 'ignore them and they will quickly disappear', and behind-the-scenes character assassination of leading members of the new organisation. This approach had worked very well for the GAA 20 years ago when John Callinan the Clare hurler and Robbie Kelleher of Dublin had started another players' organisation. That time, however, there was no Donal O'Neill around and the new body was easy meat for the GAA officials. But O'Neill posed a problem for the GAA. For a start, it was difficult enough for GAA bosses to apply the usual 'he's only an upstart' approach to him because he was a member of one of the great Ulster GAA family alliances, the O'Neills of Down GAA fame and the McKnights of Armagh. Secondly, O'Neill was actually an expert in sports promotion techniques so the GPA was able to get off to a good media start before the GAA realised they had a problem on their hands far more serious than had been presented to them before. Then the names of some of the leading officials of the GPA emerged and these were difficult to denigrate by GAA officers. People like Seamus Moynihan, Jamesie O'Connor and Dessie Farrell were not ones to be treated lightly and the GAA was panicked into upgrading their previously unknown players' representative body by appointing high-profile Armagh player Jarlath Burns to lead it. That body whose name escapes me as it does 99pc of GAA members was even given representation at Central Council meetings in an effort to show that the GAA had become a convert to players having rights. The GAA also insisted that all counties should pay travelling expenses at 30p per mile and that players on county teams should have free playing gear and proper meals after training. We can be sure that all these things were expedited by the arrival of the GPA and many GAA officials hoped that by making such concessions the GPA would simply go away. But the GAA suffered a major blow in its tactical battle with the GPA when, after the rules were changed to allow GAA players take part in sponsorship deals, the official GAA body charged with getting such commercial deals failed miserably to 'sell' any famous GAA players to advertisers so that little or none of the anticipated revenue for leading GAA stars materialised. The attempts to turn the ordinary GAA follower against the GPA did not really succeed. The GPA, after their initial blaze of publicity, more or less kept their heads down but kept working away and occasionally provided some media fodder about what they were up to just to keep everybody interested and send out a message that: 'We haven't gone away you know'. But the average GAA follower seemed to accept that inter-county players deserve some additional recompense for all the time and effort they nowadays put in. The most recent development from the GPA was to produce an itemised, well-researched report on the cost of playing inter-county football or hurling that is, the money which your average county player has to forgo because of the time he devoted to inter-county activity. This includes lost earnings and lost overtime and was the first time such things had been costed in a professional manner. For whatever reason, the top brass in the GAA then decided that they should negotiate with the GPA, obviously with the target of subsuming the GPA into the official players' organisation in Croke Park. And so we have the meeting last week of GPA officers and GAA President Sean McCague and Liam Mulvihill among others. This is the civilised way to address the whole issue of the players' role in the GAA at inter-county level, but it also marks a major departure for the GAA because treating players in a civilised manner was never the hallmark of GAA officials with the odd honourable exception. For 100 years or more, players in the GAA filled a servile role. The GAA belonged to the officials and players were always kept firmly in their place underneath the table where they could, if lucky, survive on the crumbs that might fall off that table. But times have changed. The modern GAA player is well-educated and, like most young people in Ireland today, self-confident, articulate and ambitious. Certainly they are dedicated totally to playing GAA games for club and county, but they can differentiate between blind loyalty to the GAA cause and their own self-respect. When players are paid 15p a mile travelling expenses, as happened with a team in an All-Ireland final a few years ago, they KNOW they are being abused. When they cannot get a couple of free admission tickets for their family for a game they are playing in, in front of 30,000 to 60,000 paying fans, they are disgusted. When a county player who has played championship games for his county in the summer cannot buy even one ticket for that year's All-Ireland final, when every tin pot officer of his own County Board can, he feels humiliated. That's why the GPA has stayed the course. Today's player will not accept this sort of second-class treatment. They will not be used and abused by officers of county boards with totally different agendas. There is talk of GPA members seeking to have a weekly allowance of around £100 (127) paid to them on a permanent basis. Players are no fools and they can see that the GAA increased its gate receipts from the football championship last year by three or four million pounds at least. Hurling will have a pro-rata increase this year. The GAA can no longer repeat the mantra of past decades that the money is not there to take better care of players. But great caution is needed. Extra benefits must not be confined to the big stars of the game. County players in Leitrim, Longford and Carlow are as dedicated to their counties as those from Kerry, Galway or Dublin. Any extra perks for county players must come from central GAA finances, not from cash-starved county boards. And, most importantly of all, county players represent less than ONE PER CENT of the GAA's playing population. Other club players, just as dedicated but not as talented, also have to be considered because they are the real backbone of Gaelic games. But at least the fact that the GAA and the GPA are talking as equals now is a progressive step. Every genuine GAA person will hope that these talks work out satisfactorily so that the players who generate the GAA's massive income will feel that their role is appreciated something that often was not the case in the past. eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
