sport gaa
{ Breda Heffernan 
    March 17 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/minister-at-war-with-gaa-over-croke-park-funding-26271120.html }
THE war of words has intensified between the GAA and Sport Minister John O'Donoghue over Croke Park's redevelopment. THE war of words has intensified between the GAA and Sport Minister John O'Donoghue over how exactly the redevelopment of Croke Park was cash aided. Mr O'Donoghue yesterday launched a scathing attack on the sporting association, accusing it of making "misleading statements" regarding the level of government funding for the project. He said the Government had allocated ?114m towards the redevelopment - far more than the ?19m claimed by GAA sources. However, last night GAA spokesperson Danny Lynch accused Mr O'Donoghue of being "disingenuous" and pointed out that the vast bulk of the ?114m actually came from the National Lottery. "The minister is continuously referring to the taxpayers' money that went into Croke Park but, other than than ?19m for the Special Olympics, the money that went into it was Lotto money. To suggest it was taxpayers' money is a bit disingenuous." He pointed out that raising money for sporting and other activities was the raison d'etre for the National Lottery when it was set up 20 years ago. Mr Lynch said the minister's comments would "peeve some people off" considering the huge tourism revenues the GAA had generated for the State through the opening of the historic grounds to rugby in recent weeks and soccer in the coming weeks. Earlier Mr O'Donoghue said: "I am disappointed by the misleading statements being given by GAA sources on the level of government support for the GAA. "The Government has allocated almost ?114m towards the redevelopment of Croke Park, which is considerably more than the ?19m being portrayed as fact by these anonymous sources." Mr O'Donoghue reiterated his criticism of the GAA over the court action being taken by Dublin GAA club Thomas Davis to allow gaelic games be played in the Tallaght Stadium, which is being earmarked for Eircom Premier League club Shamrock Rovers. In recent weeks, GAA President Nicky Brennan has called for gaelic games to be allowed into the stadium in Tallaght on the basis that the doors of Croke Park are being opened to the FAI. soccer for the forthcoming Irish international matches with Wales and Slovakia. The High Court heard that South Dublin County Council was told by Mr O'Donoghue that he would only provide funding for a soccer stadium. Mr Lynch said South Dublin County Council had originally decided that the stadium by a multi-sport facility but that the Minister has essentially excluded the GAA from Tallaght. Mr Lynch said the GAA did not want any special treatment, but when major new sporting developments were being built exclusively with Government funding on publicly-owned land, other sports should get a look in. 
