sport gaa
{  
    January 26 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/countywide-27358446.html }
CastlegregoryTHE AGM OF CASTLEGREGORY COMMUNITY COUNCIL - The AGM will take place on Monday February 6th at 8.30pm.  We feel that the parish is not fully represented on the Council and we appeal to you the members of our community to become involved by joining the committee for 2006.  It is essential that the committee be comprised of members representing all organisations and station are COISTE NA NÓG - The annual Coiste na nÓg card game will take place on Sunday 29th January in the Clubrooms starting at 7.00pm sharp. PANTOMIME - The Castlegregory Pantomime Group will be presenting ALADDIN beginning on the Thursday 26th January 2006 to Sunday 29th all shows will be at 8pm sharp except Sunday matinee 3pm. Tickets are ?10 Adults, ?5 Children and they will be sold only at the Information Centre. REFUSE COLLECTION - Please note that the bin charges will be ?6.00 per bag. The next collection date for the Community Bin will be on Friday 27th January between 8.30am – 10.30am. WHIST CLUB - The whist Club meets every Thursday night at 8.30pm. If anyone is interesting in joining or would like to learn how to play please contact the Information Office 0667139422 for further details. MAHAREES WREN - Many thanks to the Maharees Wren Group who donated the following:- ?400 to New Playschool Castlegregory, ?200 to costs for upkeep of Old School Maharees, and ?145 to Fenit Lifeboat. BINGO - The Bingo is postponed for the time being. It will resume on 7th March. CARE OF THE AGED - The Care of the Aged would like to thank Paddy Healy and his family for their generous donation of a fridge to the Club Rooms. We would also like to thank the Castlegregory Wren, David & Maureen Nakash, and Mike Keane c/o Castlegregory Golf Club for their generous donations to the Care of the Aged. CHESS CLUB - Anybody interested in forming a chess club for adults and children, please contact the Information Centre @ 066 7139422. Castle GAA: Committee meeting will take place on Thursday 26th January at 8.00pm in the club dressing rooms Senior, Junior and Minor training will start on Sunday 29th January. All players from all grades, regardless of fitness, injuries etc., are expected to attend this first training session. Our opening match of the season will be on 4th Feb at home to Lispole in the W Kerry League. Tickets for the dinner dance, which takes place in the Meadowlands on 4th Feb., are now on sale and can be had from Tadgh Óg Flynn, Pat O’Shea or Tom Hogan. As the tickets are limited and selling fast, those wishing to attend are advised to book their tickets now. Web Site: The club now has its own web-site, which can be accessed at www.castlegregorygaa.com. Our thanks to Patrick Fidler for all his help with setting this up. Coiste na nÓg - The annual Coiste na nÓg card game will take place on Sunday 29th January in the Clubrooms starting at 7.00pm sharp. A Players Registration Day for all our juvenile players will take place on Sunday 12th February in the Clubrooms between 12.00pm –1.00pm. Due to new regulations regarding insurance it is imperative that all players are registered before training commences for the coming season. Causeway GAA: Social- Causeway GAA Club will hold their Annual Social on Friday 24th February at Ballyroe heights Hotel. Tickets ?25 Adult, ?12.50 Children and will be available from club officers in the coming weeks. GAA Membership-Senior players ?50. Ordinary Membership ?30. Juvenile membership fees to follow. Anyone wishing to avail of membership can contact Sheamus Buckley (Registrar) or any officer of the club. CAMOGIE FUNDAY A HUGE SUCCESS: Over 200 primary school girls turned out at Causweay Comprehensive GAA grounds on Saturday January 21st for the first 'Camogie for the Kingdom' Funday. The event, which was aimed at primary schools in the north of the county where hurling is traditionally strong, was extremely successful with 15 schools represented on the day. Events began at 11am with skills sessions for 9 groups from 6 to 12 years of age. Go Games were also organised for the children in the afternoon session. Hurleys and helmets were supplied for each child on the day thanks to funding made available to Cumann Camógaíochta na nGael by the Irish Sports Council. Children in the participating schools also entered art and essays competitions which were on display on the day. Mary O‚Connor will be visiting winning schools this week with prizes. RTÉ‚s OB Sport were there to cover the days events with presenter, Evanne Ní Chuilinn, talking to the children and filming them in action on the day. The programme, which covers a variety of sports, airs on Friday nights at 8.30pm. Details of the broadcast of the Camogie for the Kingdom funday on OB Sport will be sent to each of the participating schools. The funday is part of an initiative set up by the Camogie Association‚s Munster Council and Mary O‚Connor who works as a full-time Regional Development Co-ordinator in Munster for camogie. The aim is to start camogie in Kerry with a view to setting up clubs and a county board in the county. Minister for Arts, Tourism and Sport, John O'Donoghue, T.D. was in the Brehon Hotel last week to launch the initiative along with President of the GAA Seán Kelly. Guest visitors at the event on Saturday included Cork hurler Ronan Curran, camogie legend Deirdre Hughes of Tipperary and Cork All Ireland winning camogie players Elaine Burke (captain) and Sarah O‚Donovan. The event was a huge success with special thanks to the coaches on the day who included Kerry GAA Board‚s Maurice Leahy who has been a tremendous help with the initiative. Other partners in the event included the Kerry Local Sports Partnership, Tralee IT, Kerry GAA Board, Gaelic Gear, Mycro Sports, O‚Neills and Glaxo Smith Kline. Anyone interested in becoming involved in camogie in Kerry should contact Mary O‚Connor, Regional Development Co-ordinator at 0871251271. Churchill COMMUNITY GAMES: At the secretries meeting in Earl of Desmond Hotel on Friay night last, I was pleasantly surprised to be presented with the Killarney Credit Union Perpetual Trophy for swimming for 2005 for the Spa/ Fenit/ Barrow area. This is the first time this trophy has been awarded. So well done to all our young swimmers and their excellent coach - Josephine Cahill. Josephine heself was thrilled when she got the trophy on Sunday last. Hopefully our swimmers will do well again this year. Best of luck to our adult quiz team in the county final this Friday night at the Tankard 8pm, and to our U13 boys indoor soccer in action in Killorglin (pool A) this Sunday, January 29. Check in time 9.30am. ICA: The monthly meeting of the Spa/ Fenit ICA Guild will take place at the Oyster Barn this Wednesday night, February 1, at 8pm. New members will be more than welcome to attend or to join the Guild at any time. SYMPATHY: Is extended to the Murphy family, Fenit on the death in the USA of Patrick’s Aunt, Julia Kenny. GAA: An extraordinary meeting of the Club will be held this Saturday night, January 28, at 8.30pm sharp. All members should attend. 41 DRIVES: Results of last weeks 41 drive at Oyster Tavern - Bert Carmody and Angela Nolan, Justin Brosnan and Mark O’Brien, Jim Wrenn and Seamus Griffin, Jim Kelly and Jer Hickey. At Tankard - Anne O’Connor and Catherine Nolan, Eddie O’Connor and Brendie McCarthy, Maura Healy and Joseph Locke, Danny Slattery and Tom. Cards as usual next week. THANKS: The Spa/ Fenit Development Association would like to say a special thanks to all those who did a sponsored Christmas Day swim to raise funds for the proposed playground in Fenit Village. Participants included Gabrielle Browne. The group, which has been working hard since October, would also like to thank everyone involved in the committee, associated fundraising events and the very successful launch of our new parish publication The Churchill Times. Please note that the next meeting of the Spa/ Fenit Development Association will be held on this Thursday night, January 5, at 8pm, in Godleys Hotel, Fenit. Clounmacon SET DANCING CLASSES: Will resume at Clounmacon Community Centre on Tuesday, January 31, at 8.15pm. Everyone welcome. ST MICHAELS COLLEGE: The Enrolment and Open Night for the Academic Year 2006-2007 will be held at St Michaels College, Listowel on Thursday, February 2, from 7.30 to 9.30. Students who enrol will be offered a Special Orientation Day. This day will include 1, Transition from Primary to St Michaels; 2, Student Assessment; 3, Organisation of Homework; 4, Introduction to New Subjects; 5, School Rules. Only students who enrol on the night can avail of the above. GAA: The Agm of the Clounmacon GAA Club will be held at the Community Centre on Friday night, February 10, at 7.30pm sharp. All members of the Club are requested to attend due to new regulations regarding insurance. It is imperative that all players are registered before training commences for the coming season. The insurance for the players is ?20, for non players ?10. Kerry leagues will commence on the first week of April. The A team will be in division 3 along with Ballydonoghue B, Ballyduff B, Beale B, Duagh B, Finuge B, Tarbert B. The B team will be in Division 4 against Asdee B, Brosna B, Emmets C, Gale Rangers, Knockanure and Knocknagoshel B. The top four teams in each group qualify for semi-finals: 1st v 4th, 2nd v 3rd. RACING: Next racing fixture for Listowel will be Sunday, June 4 and Monday, June 5. HEALTH SHOW: A Health Show will be held at the Devon Inn, Templeglantine on Sunday, February 5. CANCER SUPPORT GROUP: The Listowel Cancer Support Group meet at Listowel Arms Hotel on the third Wednesday night of every month. DAFFODIL DAY: Friday, March 24, 2006. SINGING CLASSES: Classes have now resumed in Moyvane with Mary Mulvihill. LISTOWEL PARKING: A parking ticket will soon be required if a person parks their vehicle in Carrolls Yard, Listowel. CAO: Don’t forget February 1, is the deadline for CAO applications for Leaving Cert students. FÁS: Will be running a Stonework Course in Listowel. For further details tel (068) 23429. DEATHS: The death took place last weekend of Maurice (Mossie) Walsh, Skehenerin, Listowel. Sympathy of the Community is extended to his brothers Michael, Tommy and Patrick, sisters Brid, Kay and Helen, sisters in law, brothers in law, relatives and friends. The death took place on January 20, of Catherine (Kit) Carmody (nee Fitzgerald), Gortomosillihy, Moyvane. Sympathy of the Community is extended to her son, daughters, sons in law, daughter in law, grandchildren and friends. SOCIAL: The 30th Annual Clounmacon Social takes place on Saturday, February 4, at Listowel Arms Hotel. Music by the Michael Collins Band. Tickets are ?25 and can be had from any committee member. PIONEER SOCIAL: The NK Pioneer Total Abstinence Association will hold their Annual Social on Friday, February 3, at the Golf Hotel, Ballybunion. Music by Johnny Barrett. Tickets are available from Mary Holland at Tarbert (068) 34422. REMINDER: Please have items to be included in these notes with the writer not later than Saturdays at 8pm. County Kerry Hunt Club The pace was quick and clear in Causway as we were treated to a day of all clear jumping. The hunt was lead out by fourteen couple and Denis O' Sullivan, who must be congratulated for doing a great job in the absence of David as huntsman. Emily Vile although managing to hide in the only bush to be seen in the whole countryside and carrying pieces of it around with her for the rest of the day was a superb whipper in. The first lady we have had in this position I may add. Denis and Emily set a flying pace keeping us all moving over the walled country. The hunt headed out via Ardagh to Meenoghane where it was non-stop stonewalls for five miles back through BinCoinin to Clash. There were many supporters out watching the spectacle as forty horses raced across the clifftop. Many thanks to all the supporters and to Declan Brodrick who was out at Breeches Brooke cheering us on. Jackie on Katie and Robert on his Silver informed me their 12.2's had to climb down the occasional rather large wall but most other jockeys and mounts took them in one leap. There was a great buzz in the crowd as we headed back to Barrons bunker for a great feed of soup and sandwiches. Thanks to Sally Ann and John Patrick for making us all welcome. Happy Birthday Noelle Keily, 25 again you said and thanks for the scrumptious cake! Welcome to Marguerite O'Brien, her big brother Joe and their ponies Charlie and Archie who have joined the hunt recently and made it all look so easy. Hope the lip isn't too swollen today John Murphy. The clear jumping didn't suit his steady grey who prefers to bank. Lord Murphy did correctly note that next week his horse will continue to bank whilst the rest of us will clear jump straight into the first dike we meet in Abbeydorney! I have the longest list ever of people to thank but I will start with Emily and Kate who have really done a great job with the notes while I was off sunning myself downunder. The girls enjoyed the task so much they have agreed to jobshare with me from now on. Cheers lads and watch out everyone there are now three of us watching and listening for a funny comment or fatal blunder. Thanks a million to Mary Crickard and her team including Sylvester O' Carroll, Jeremiah, Finbar, Thomas Harrington who did all the premission seeking. Eilin, Dennis and Tommy O' Sullivan turned out for the walk on Saturday. Big thanks to Tommy who pulled the drag Sunday morning. The biggest thank you goes to all the farmers and to David Barron for making parking easy with the use of the yard. Teams are now being accepted for the golf classic to be held in Ballybunnion. 25th March ring Jeremiah O' Connor for details at 087 6959245. Plans are well underway for the point to point. Contact Mike O' Sullivan if you are interested in helping or in more details at 0876302194. We will be in Abbeydorney next Sunday for the ploughing so please do your best to keep the standard up and turn out well. We will be in Ballybunion on the 5th of February watch out for mini's long awaited return! The hunt can be contacted at countykerryhunt@yahoo.co.uk Dingle COFFEE AFTERNOON: At a coffee afternoon and wine evening held in the home of Josephine Fitzmaurice, Holy Stone, recently, a total of ?2725 was raised, half of which went to Breast Care, Tralee General Hospital and the other half to the Oncology Unit, Tralee General. A special thanks to all who attended and gave donations. To Patrick Fitzgerald for supplying wine, Noel Evans for spot prizes and the cheese lady. Also all who helped in baking cakes etc. SOCIAL: The Annual Senior Citizens Social will be held in the Hillgrove Hotel on Sunday next, commencing at 3pm. Tickets ?10. All are welcome. LOTTO: The GAA lotto draw held in Maura Bán Brosnans on Tuesday last had a jackpot prize of ?3400. The numbers drawn were 8, 11, 15, 24. There were no winners. Four prizes of ?50 went to Noreen Ferriter, Beenbawn; Pat Ashe, Ballymore; Jack O’Sullivan, Goat St and Joan Bean Ui Mhoráin, Baile Riach. MANAGER: Colm Geaney is the new manager/ trainer of the Dingle senior football team. His name was ratified at a special club meeting on Wednesday night last. His co selectors will be Fergal Daly and Paul Scanlon. The U21 manager is Murt Moriarty. Damien Foley is in charge of the minors and Fintan Ashe, Johnny Fitzmaurice and Breandán Fitzgerald responsible for the junior B team. The seniors play their first match of the season on Sunday week, February 5, when they host St Pats in the first round of the West Kerry SF league. DEATH: The death occurred on Sunday last at St Johns, Balloonagh, Tralee of Sr Mary Curran, Mercy Order, late of Flemingstown. She spent many years in Coláiste Íde. Duagh DEATHS: Sympathy is also extended to Joan Daly and family Knockavallig on the death of her father James Murphy Tournafulla. LOTTO:The GAA lotto jackpot was not won last week. The next draw is on Friday January 27th when a jackpot of ?2800 will be available.The draw will be held at O’Connors Bar. BASKETBALL:Congratulations to Loretta Maher Knockadireen on being selected on the Irish international Under 20 basketball team. TICKETS:Tickets are now on sale by the local GAA club for the Peugeot cars. Two cars are on offer in the monthly draws and tickets are ?100. There are many other cash prizes on offer as well.We are delighted to report that the sales of these tickets are going extremely well and the club expects to reach its target. PARISH:Some dates for your parish diary:Confirmaton for the pupils of Duagh NS in St. Bridgids Church Duagh on Wednesday March 8th in the afternoon. First Communion: Saturday May 20th. COURSE: Cooking and Entertainment course in Resource Centre Lyreacrompane commencing on January 23rd at 7.30pm and running for 8 weeks. For further information contact the Resource Centre at 068 48369 with regards to fees and course contents. Contact immediately please as places are limited. Finuge FESTIVAL: There will be a meeting of the Sean McCarthy Festival committee on Sunday night, February 5th in Teach Siamsa. New members are invited to join the committee. This year’s festival will run from August 4th to 7th, the Bank Holiday Weekend. THATCH: Work is well underway in re-roofing the corner house. The thatchers are displaying great craftsmanship and when finished the house should look as good as ever. Foynes ST SENANS COMM GAMES: The current programme of activities are as follows. Wednesday, 7pm to 8pm, Shanagolden Hall, draughts u10, u12, u14s, badminton u13, u15. Table tennis u13, u16. All events boys and girls. Saturday, 10am, Foynes, u13 basketball boys and girls. 11am Foynes, u13, u15 badminton, boys and girls. 12.30pm, Foynes, u16 basketball, boys and girls. Sunday, cross country. From u9s to u14s. 12.45pm, meeting at Foynes Library. 1pm, meeting at the Hall, Shanagolden, travelling to Curraghchase this Sunday, returning at 2.15pm. Families, ie parents, and children welcome, you can make it a family fitness outing. All most welcome. Monday, 7.30pm, Shanagolden Hall, quiz practice, u14s boys and girls. TABLE QUIZ: A table quiz, will take place in Foynes Yacht Club on Friday night, January 27, at 9pm. The quiz is organised to raise funds for Fr O’Malley in the Philippines. Your support is greatly appreciated. RUGBY: Estuary rugby FC are organising a fund raising raffle and tickets are available locally. The first prize is two tickets to the Ireland v Wales game in Dublin on February 26 and one nights accommodation in Days Hotel, Rathmines. The draw will take place in Shanagolden on February 11. Kerry Deaf Resource Centre Hello and welcome to our weekly news section. Last week Minister Noel Ahern and some of his colleagues visited the KDRC and met with our staff and members of the EEI Project. An enjoyable afternoon was had by all and our thanks once again to Mr Ahern's department for funding the refurbishment of the ground floor of the KDRC. Our thanks go to CACDP who this weekend will provide our Deaf Adult Tutors a three day Assessor Training for ISL Level 1. This means that if any student who is learning CACDP ISL 1 will have a group of Deaf Examiners in Kerry, Cork and Limerick who will also be trained to assess. Our thanks also go to Leargas who came to visit the EEI Project and provide us will valuable assistance and advice on how to proceed with the final year of the project. The Kerry Deaf Adult Learning Programme Conference and Awards Ceremony which will take place Saturday 21st October in Tralee. More details will be provided in due course. As of the 1st of February Therese Gallant will be our new Outreach worker in the following areas- Castleisland, Scartaglen, Knocknagoshel, Lyracompane, Brosna, Firies and surrounding areas. Therese worked with the Citizens Information Centre in Castleisland for the past three years and is well known in these areas. Therese will liase with local Day Care Centres, Community Centres, Citizen Information Centres and the Health Service Executive in the delivery of this service. For an appointment, please contact our service. We are currently establishing a part-time location in Castleisland, details will be made available in the next few weeks. Lastly, we would like to wish Tracey Daly all the best when she returns to live in Dublin in February. Tracey originally came to Tralee on placement when she was studying to become a sign language interpreter and ended up staying nearly two years. We would like to thank her for all the work she did locally for our members. She was an asset to our service and will be missed. Kerry Deaf Resource Centre Ltd, 4 Gas Terrace, Tralee Tel: 066 7120399/ Fax: 066 712 0386/ E-mail: kdrc@eircom.net Mobile (text) 087 633 4687 Kilflynn PLAYSCHOOL COLLECTION: Abbeyflynn Community Playschool will hold a Church Gate Collection next weekend. COMMUNITY GAMES: Best of Luck to the Abbeydorney/Kilflynn Adult quiz team that will compete in the County Community Games quiz on Friday night 27th January in Tankard, Fenit at 8.00 p.m. Team: Tom Hayes, Bernie Shanahan, Jason Fealy, Tommy Hayes and Rachel Shanahan. KERRY MINORS: The Kerry Minor Hurlers recommenced training at Ballyheigue Community Centre on Friday 13th January.The following Crotta players were present: David Galvin, Philip Twomey, Matt Lynch and Darren Twomey. SENIOR TRAINING: The Crotta Senior hurlers will continue Training on Wednesday night at 7.00 p.m. at Tralee I.T New training ground, North Campus, Dromtacker and every Saturday’s at 6.00 p.m. SOCCER: Kilflynn Santos Senior Soccer Team had 1 nil victory over Fenit Shamphires, at Meadows Grounds, Crotta on Sunday 22nd January, with a goal from a penalty by Brendan Keane. Kilflynn Panel: Mark Mc Namara, Seamus Enright, J.P Mc Elligott, Aiden Scalon, Brendan Keane, Niall Enright, Denis Sayers, David Mc Loughlin, Colin Curran, Colm Mc Elligott and Gary Hogan. Subs Martin Daughton for G.Hogan, Jonathan Caffrey for C.Curran, Chris Nicholson for N.Enright and Gavin Foley for D. Mc Loughlin. OFFICERS MEETING: There will be a meeting of The Crotta hurling club officers at their Clubrooms Dromakee, Kilflynn on Wednesday 25th January at 9.00 p.m. All officers are requested to attend. RURAL DWELLERS: The Kerry Branch of the Irish Rural Dwellers Association are currently arranging to have regional meetings in various areas around the county. Members of the community who may be concerned about rural issues including planning matters are invited to attend. Such meetings will be fully advertised in future issues of the local notes. Community members who may be experiencing planning problems are invited to make submissions regarding same to Irish Rural Dwellers, PO Box 327, An Post, Edward St, Tralee, Co Kerry LOTTO RESULTS: The Four numbers drawn out of the drum by the Independent observer Betty Falvey, Garrynagore, Lixnaw, in The Crotta hurling club lotto Draw on Monday night 16th January in Parker’s Bar were: 4, 14, 20 & 22. There were no winners of the ?2,800 Jackpot. The lucky dip winners each receive ?35: Susan Dillane, Abbeydorney, Stephen Mason, Tralee and John Mc Carthy, Knockbrack, Kilflynn. Tickets are available at ?2 from Club tickets sellers or from Cronin's Bar, Parker's Bar and Kilflynn Post Office KERRY HURLERS: The Crotta hurling club was represented by Andrew Keane on the Kerry Senior hurling team that were defeated by a Waterford Institute of Technology side, at Ballyheigue in the Quarter final of Waterford Crystal Cup on Sunday 22nd January on a 3-10 to 2-19 scoreline. CROTTA SOCIAL: There is only Two weeks to go for The Crotta hurling club Annual Social in Ballyroe Heights Hotel, Tralee, on Saturday 11th February. Neily O’Connor followed by a Disco will provide music on the night. The victories Minor hurling panel will receive their County Minor B Championship Medals, and the Junior hurling squad will also be presented with their County League Div. 3 Medals. As usual the club’s hall of fame award will be presented. There will two new Awards announced and presented at the social this year. The Club Hurler of The Year will receive the Dick Parkinson Memorial Trophy, and The Sam Hillard Memorial Trophy will be presented to The Club Person of The Year. Book your Tickets now from club officers at ?25. There is strictly no admittance after the Meal. DARTS: The weekly Darts Doubles Tournament recommence on Saturday night last at Parker’s lounge Bar, Norma O’Connor and J.P Twomey defeated Phil Morris and Richard Parkinson in the final. The weekly Darts Doubles Tournament will continue this Saturday night, Names to be in for the draw at 10.15 p.m. The Winners will receive a Leg of Lamb each. YOUTH 2000 RETREAT: The Youth 2000 Retreat will be held in St. Brendan’s College, Killarney on 27th to 29th January. Age group 16 to 35 years. No cost, donations only. Theme “The Kingdom of God is within you” For details contact Sean at 086 1651219 or www.youth2000.ie 
