sport gaa
{  
    December 22 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/countywide-27365710.html }
An Dromod Craobh Chiarraí Theas:  Ní raibh an t-ádh le Piarsaigh na Dromoda sa Craobh Chiarraí Theas Dé Satharn seo chaite in aghaidh An Dairbhre.  Seo leanas an foireann:  - Tadhg Ó Súilleabháin, Aodhán Ó Súilleabháin, Cian O hÁilíosa, Dónal M. Ó Súilleabháin, Bord na nÓg: Piarsaigh na Dromoda received the Club of the Year Award from Coiste na nÓg this week. This is a great achievement for all players’ committee members, trainers and supporters. Bazaar: Beidh bazaar bliantúil Piarsaigh na Dromoda ar siúl De hAoine 23u Nollaig i dtábhairne na hAoine. Rothaiocht/Siul: Beidh an Rothaoicht/siul bliantúil ar siúl ar an Satharn, 31u Nollaig ar a haon a clog. Tá fáilte roimh gach einne páirt a glacadh. Dromid I.C.A. hosted the Christmas Community Party on Sun 11th Dec at the Inny Tavern. A most enjoyable day was had by all. Many thanks to all who sponsored spot prizes, to Humphrey & Staff and all who helped our on the day in the preparations of this function. Comhbhrón: le muintir Maire Áine Bean Uí Shé, Ceanúig a fuair bas an tseachtain seo chaite. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a hanam dílis. Ballinskelligs Mass Times: Christmas Eve Mass will be at 8.00 pm. Christmas Day Mass will be at 11.00 am. Ballinskelligs Community Ballinskelligs Community Care raised ?175 for the Pakistan Earthquake victims and we would like to thank you for your generosity. We would also like to wish you all a very Happy Christmas. Beaufort Samaritans: The Kerry Branch of the Samaritans will take up a Church Gate Collection before Masses on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. Your generousity will be greatly appreciated. Community Alert Group: The Annual General Meeting of Beaufort Community Alert Group took place in the Community Hall on 15th December, 2005. This Meeting was very well attended. Guest speaker was Superintendent Michael Maher, Killarney who emphasized the importance of people in the Parish working together looking after the security and needs of the elderly and people residing alone and that all suspicious activities that come to notice are reported immediately to the authorities. Officers elected for 2006: Chairman: Jack McGrath; Vice-Chairperson: Claire Savage; Secretary: Mary Anne Leane; Assistant Secretary: Eileen Tangney; Treasurer: Melvin Carson; Assistant Treasurer: Kathleen O'Connor. Under the 2005 Scheme for Community Support for older people Beaufort Community Alert received a grant of EUR11,000 to fit security alarms and other security devices in the homes of the elderly. This work will be done after Christmas. GAA Lotto: The numbers drawn on Sunday night last in Kate Kearneys for the Lotto Jackpot of EUR1,600 were 3, 11, 12, 18. There was no winner. The consolation prize winners were: EUR80-Bernie Casey, The Valley. EUR50 each-Patsy O'Shea, Lislibane, Mike Coffey, Keel, Kilgobnet and Bridie Joy, Cooleanig. Please note that the next Draw for a Jackpot of EUR1,800 will take place in Pat Sheahan's Bar on Friday night, December 30th instead of New Years Day Night. On behalf of the Beaufort GAA I wish all our members and supporters a very Happy and Peaceful Christmas and a prosperous and successful New Year. Caherdaniel The Annual Christmas Party was held in Caherdaniel Hall on Sunday and it was a great success enjoyed by all our senior citizens and their friends. Festivities kicked off at 2pm with Mass in the hall celebrated by Fr Ryan, this was followed by a lovely dinner prepared by Tom Corridan and his helpers. The meal was followed by dancing to Ger Donoghue and a great display of nimble feet and fancy footwork was on display. Everyone was entertained by the fine singers who sang including Fr Michael Curran Lohar who is home on holidays from South Africa and Fr Ryan was a great MC. There were loads of raffle prizes and the organisers would like to thank all those who sponsored these. A special raffle for the senior citizens was won by Betty Donnelly Reenaratha and Johnny Galvin of Caherdaniel and Caherciveen. The organisers wish to thank everyone who participated in any way to make the day the resounding success it was. A special word of thanks to Mary O Connor of the Derrynane Hotel whose help and support is very much appreciated. It was great to see all our senior citizens enjoying themselves and meeting people they might not have seen since last years party. Go mbeirímid beo ag an am seo arís 31: The winners of the 31 card drive at The Blink Pipers Pub on last Tuesday night are as follows, 1st table Paud Collins, Lohar, Waterville, Kevin Donnelly, Caherdnaiel, 2nd table, Michael McGillicuddy, Behinane, Castlecove, Florry Donnelly, Farraneregh, Caherdaniel. Cahersiveen Church Restoration Fund: A dance in aid of the Daniel O’Connell Church restoration fund will be held in the Ring of Kerry Hotel, Cahersiveen on Monday 26th December. Music by Neily O’Connor. Fantastic prizes will be raffled on the night. Please support this project. SOUTH KERRY SPORTS COMPLEX: Opening hours Monday 4p.m. to 10p.m. Tuesday morning 7a.m. to 11a.m. also afternoon 4p.m. to 10p.m. Wednesday 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. Thursday morning 7 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. also 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. Friday 4p.m. to10 p.m. and Saturday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. On Tuesday’s 4 p.m. to 5.30 p.m -Junior Soccer Age 9 to 12 year old. Wednesday 4 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. Kids Club Age 4 to 9 years old. Wednesday nights CIRCUIT TRAINING – On a Wednesday night at the South Kerry Sports Complex, come along and see those last few pounds disappear before Christmas. It’s all a bit of fun, come along and bring a friend. Sports – Hall available for hire for Birthday Parties, indoor sports etc. For more information please call Deirdre on 087 6424359 / 066 71555 after 4 p.m. Teen – Busters Club - Are you between 12 to 15 years old? Now the GYM is available to you under the supervision of a Qualified Fitness Instructor! “No Weight Training” Allocated times: Friday 4pm – 10pm and Saturdays 11am – 3pm. 3 euro per session or 30 euro per month. For more information please call Deirdre on 087 6424359 / 066 71555 after 4 p.m. Gift Vouchers for Xmas – stuck for an idea for Xmas Presents? Why not give a Gym Voucher! A wide variety of packages available for all ages. Start the New Year in a Healthy Way! Contact Deirdre on: 087 6424359 – Merry Christmas!. CHRISTIE’S VIDEOS/DVDS - County Final DVDs and videos between South Kerry and Dr. Crokes for sale at Quirkes Newsagents in Cahirciveen, Lee Records in Tralee or from Christie on: 087 9226284.Also all videos and DVDS of all the South Kerry Championship Games available from Christie’s and on Monday night (5th December) a CD of the Voices of Kerry will be launched by Whessey Fogharty on his radio programme. All proceeds of this CD goes to Tigh-an-Oileain, Valentia and Kerry Radio’s Charity Appeal Christmas Fund. CDs on sale at Quirkes Newsagents in Cahersiveen, Lee Records in Tralee or from Christie’s. All CDs and DVDs produced locally by Christie’s Video Productions in Cahersiveen. CHRISTMAS CARDS - This year sees an even wider choice of Christmas Cards available with the addition of custom made cards. Choose from a selection of historical landmarks or cards with a religious scripture - and even cards with a humorous theme, or your very own personal feature. These locally designed cards are available in English or Irish and are in the local shops, or phone 087 0559060. C.I.C.’S OPENING HOURS CITIZENS INFORMATION SERVICE - The Cahersiveen Citizens Information Centre provides information on all your rights and entitlements. It is a free and CONFIDENTIAL service. Opening times: Tuesday to Friday 10.00 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. plus Wednesday & Thursday afternoons 2.30 to 5.00 p.m. The center is based in the Library Building (across from the Courthouse), New Market St, Cahersiveen. Telephone 066-9473515 POWERBOAT CLASSES AT CAHERSIVEEN MARINA - Level 1 and Level 2 courses run by qualified ISA instructors. For further information please tel: 066 947 2777 HELPING HAND; Helping hand charity shop opened Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 10 until 4.00. Your support is greatly needed and appricated SCOIL MHUIRE PRIMARY SCHOOL will be celebrating their annual Christmas Mass and Carol Service in the O’Connell Memorial Church on Wednesday 21st December at 7.30 pm. All Welcome HAPPY CHRISTMAS; Wishing all our readers a happy and peaceful christmas READERS: If you have any Articles you wish to have printed in the Cahersiveen Notes i.e. Weddings, Births, Deaths, Events or any Breaking news...please ring or email the ACARD office at the Marina, The Pier, 066-9472777 email: acard@eircom.net before noon on Mondays. If you don't tell us we can't tell them! Castlemaine CASTLEMAINE Childcare Services are organisin swimming classes in January. Contact the Centre at 0669767833 for further info. Castlemaine Comm Care wishes to thank everyone who attended the senior citizens Christmas party and also all those who contributed in any way to make the day the tremendous success it was. Happy Christmas and a bright new year to all. The AGM of Castlemaine Comm Council will be held on Thursday, January 19 at 8pm. CASTLEMAINE UNITED: Xmas draw, winners, widescreen tv and dvd, Donal Donnelly. Coom. Gneeveguilla, hi fi system, Barty Flynn, Castlemaine. Xmas hamper, Marion Reidy, c/o Kerry Airport.Meal voucher, R Walsh, Cordal West, microwave, Dan O’Sullivan, Kilcolman, Milltown. Seniors had a good win at home to Mastergeeha on Sunday. Timmy O’Connor, and Niall Colgan scored the goals. Best were Nigel Wren, Paul Carroll, Jimmy O’Connor and Andrew Doyle. The club would like to thank everyone who supported our Xmas draw and recent church gate collection. We would like to wish everyone a merry Xmas and happy New Year. Comhaltas THE AGM of Kerry County Board was held in Tralee on December 13 and was attended by most branches. Kerry County Board officers for the coming year are as follows. Cathaoirleach, Jackie Walsh, Leas Cathaorileach, Denis Courtney, Runaí, Treasa Feirteur, Leas Runaí, Garaldine Guilfoyle, Cisteoir, Tadhg Creedon. PRO Aoife Granville, Iniuchoirí, John Moriarty, P J Hartnett, Treoraí na Gaeilge, Brendan Feiriteur, Oifigeach na nóg, Sean Egan. Munster delegates, Micheal and Anne Granville. FLEADH CHEOIL: The Kerry County Fleadh will be held in Milltown on April 8/9. YOUTH DAY: Congratulations to Tony O’Connor and all involved in organising the youth fun evening, which was held in The Killarney Heights Hotel on November 27. A great time was had by all, and it is hoped to make this a regular event. CEOL AN GHEIMHRIDH: Will be held on January 7/8. Music, singing and story telling competitions will take place on Saturday, 7 January in Ceolann, Lixnaw. Dancing competitions will take place in Castlemaine Community Centre on the afternoon of Sunday 8 January. More information will be forwarded to branch secretaries soon. CALENDAR OF EVENTS: It is hoped to arrange a calendar of events for CCE in Kerry for the coming year. Branches are advised to notify the County Board of all upcoming events. GLENFLESK CCE: The annual Christmas concert was held in St Agatha’s Community Centre, Glenflesk on Saturday, December 10. It was a very successful night with local talent performing to a packed hall. Thanks to all who helped to make this night a great success, including all those who prepared the children and helped with the tea etc. Thanks also to all who donated prizes for the raffle including, Denis O’Brien’s Shop, Glenflesk, the Curraglass Inn, Top Oil, Sheehan’s Chemist, Killarney, Paddy’s Restaurant, Killarney, The Gleneagle Hotel, Darby O’Gills and John Culloty, Annaghmore. CR AN AGHASAIGH CCE DINGLE: The branch will hold a seisiún na nóg this coming Friday, from 4pm to 6pm in O’Flahertys Bar, Dingle. Everyone is welcome. Guíonn Coiste Chontae Chiarraí beannachtaí na Nollag oraibh go léir agus gach dea ghuíi don bhliain nua. Any branch wishing to forward information for inclusion in Comhaltas notes, should forward them to Aoife Granville 086-8560562/aoifeg@iol.ie. Cromane BINGO: Bingo in the CYMS every Sunday at 8.30pm and in Glenbeigh Pavilion every Wednesday at 8.30pm. GAELIC TELECOM: Cromane G.A.A Club in conjunction with Gaelic Telecom will be offering all its members the opportunity to reduce their monthly phone bill whilst supporting Cromane G.A.A club. A member of Gaelic Telecom will be contacting members in due course about the benefits and information on switching. This is an ideal opportunity to assist your club while in turn reducing your phone bill. For more information call 1890 929 422. SEW CELTIC: Sew Celtic make and sell personalized gifts such as towels, cot blankets, bibs, shawls, Cushions, all embroidered to order. They can be viewed at The Square, Tralee every Friday. Contact 066 9769993 or 087 9697391. They have a beautiful range of goods. Well worth a visit for that special gift. ANNUAL Charity Christmas Swim: The Annual Charity Chritmas Swim will be held on Rossbeigh Beach on St. Stephens Day at 1.o.clock. Killorglin Mental Health Assoc. will have people doing the swim for them. If you would like to swim or sponser someone, please contact members of Assoc. or Stephen Grady, Publican, Killorglin. They would love your support for this worthy cause. LIVING LINKS: Supporting the suicide Bereaved. Monday to Friday 10.00 12.00. Contact 087 9006300. TEENTXT: R u stressed? Worried ? desperate ? Ur not alone. Text the word „Teen‰‰ to 50101. This is a Free Text service to Kerry Teens. AGM: The AGM of Cromane Gaa Club is set for Sat. 14th Jan at 8.15pm in Cromane Centre. Motions and Nominations must be with the club secretary Tomas Hayes by Monday January 9th. USED Postage Stamps: With the Christmas season upon us, please keep your used stamps for the writer. Please leave a little bit of the envelope around the stamps. Used Spectacles are also valuable in poorer countries and used computer ink cartridges are used by Mission Societys. They are used in third world development programmes and also in local charities. BE SAFE BE SEEN: When walking or cycling on the public highway in the evening or at night, please wear bright clothing and reflective belts, jackets or arm bands. It could save your life. AUTHOR: Congratulations and every success to Fiona Brennan, Killorglin and Knocknagree daughter of Kathleen Brennan (Nee O.Sullivan) of Cromane Lower and John Brennan on the Launch of her book titled „Wild in his own way‰ which is a biography of Listowel born playwright George Fitzmaurice whose Plays were performed in the Abbey Theatre. It took Fiona five years to complete this book and it is well worth reading. An ideal Christmas present available in all bookshops. BIRTH: Congratulations and Best Wishes to Noreen and Phyl Crosby, Dooks on the safe arrival of their baby boy. CHRISTMAS RAFFLE: Cromane Rowing Club are having a Christmas Raffle for a Portable TV/DVD Combi. Spirit and Wine Hamper, DVD Player, and lots more prizes. Tickets are 2 each and 3 for 5 available from any Committee Members or Rowing Crew. Draw will be in Jacks Bar, Cromane on 23rd Dec at 9pm. If youre not in, you cant win. Please support this worthy cause. DEATH: The death occurred last weekend of Patrick O.Sullivan of Cromane Lower. Patrick was one of lifes true Gentlemen. He emigrated to New York in 1958 where he was a bus driver for 25 years before he returned to his native Cromane. Prior to his departure to the USA he was involved in the fishing industry in Cromane and was a member of the Senior Cromane Gaa Team in the Mid 50s. He always came back on holidays every summer and in the late 70s was one of the main organisers of the very successful Cromane Seine Boat Rowing Crew. When he returned home he was very much involved in the Cromane Football Club, the construction of the new Dressing Rooms and also helped out in the fundraising. Patrick was a very generous and kind man and anything he ever won from the Club, he always put it back in. He never saw a young boy without a pair of football boots or jersey and was always on hand to transport young lads when they had to be taken to various matches. He was very proud of his nephew Sean who played with the Kerry Minors, Under 21s and won an All Ireland Senior Medal with Kerry in 2004. Patrick also had an open door for all to come and chat, and his neighbours were always were calling in when all topics of the day both local and international were thrashed out. When some bicycles or a motor car were seen outside Patrick‚s house, it was said „That the Dail was currently sitting‰. He always read the Newspapers and was very up to date with all issues and was a very good friend to many and will be sadly missed by young and old. He was a perfectionist and had a spotless home and was very clean and tidy. A Guard of Honour of some of his team mates of the 50s as well as present day club members was formed and lead him to his final resting place in Dromavalla. Sincere Sympathy to his brothers, in laws, nieces, nephews. Uncle and all his family, relations and many many friends. Ar Dheis De go raibh a ainm dilis. GREETINGS: Seasons Greetings to all our readers at home and overseas. I did my best to bring you all the news from Cromane in 2005. I appreciate any items for the notes and thank you all for your help and support. Remember I do not know everything. LIVING ALONE: Please give a call and think of those on their own this Christmas. 25 YEARS: Congratulations to Micheal O.Sullivan, Forest View, Upper Tullig, who was recently honoured by Dawn Dairies in Killarney for his 25 years dedicated service to the Company at a Reception in Killarney. Well done and Best Wishes to Micheal for the future. SAMARITANS: There will be Church Gate Collection on behalf of the Kerry Branch of the Samaritans this weekend in Cromane. GRADUATION: Congratulations and Best Wishes to Gerry O.Sullivan, Forest View, Upper Tullig who graduated with a Batchelor of Science in Construction in Health and Safety in Limerick recently. Every success to him for the future. LOTTO: The numbers drawn on 18th Dec in the Cromane Gaa Lotto Draw were 4, 16, 17, 18. There was no winner of the 5,800 Jackpot. The following were the winners of the weekly prizes and some extra prizes were added for Christmas 100 Hamper: Mary Carey Upper Tullig. Ticket sold by Patie Joy. 50 Hamper: Mossie Pierse, c/o Red Fox. Ticket sold by Patie Joy. 25 Breda O.Shea, c/o Mad Mix. Ticket sold by Mad Mix. 25 Liam and Michelle Teahan, Cromane Lr. Ticket sold by Jacks Bar. 25 Timmy O.Connor, Douglas. Ticket sold by Kathleen O.Sullivan. 25 Marian Mahony, Tulligmore. Ticket sold by Leens Bar. 25 Fr. Liam O.Brien, Killorglin. Ticket sold by Patrick Casey. Bottle of Brandy: Ciarain Griffen, Glosha. Ticket sold by Patrick Casey. Bottle of Whiskey: Gerard Flynn, Tulligmore. Ticket sold by Ian Costelloe. Cromane Gaa Club wish to thank everyone for their support and help with the weekly draw during the year, especially our sellers and customers and wish you all a happy Christmas and prosperous new year. Next weeks Jackpot will be 5,900. Draw will take place on 27th Dec at 7pm. If youre not in, you cant win. This is the main fund raiser for Cromane Gaa Club and need your support at all times. Dr Crokes E KERRY MINOR LEAGUE FINAL: Currow 0-7, Dr Crokes 1-10. Full report in sports section in E Kerry GAA. TRIPS TO TRALEE AREA: On Wednesday last, Bridie O’Shea, led a group of some 30 pilgrims to Ardfert for our annual trip le Cunamh De, all their prayers will be answered. The following night it was rasai na con at Tralee Greyhound Track, where there was ten races. Many prayers were said here, as well with good results for some punters. Club members are asked to return tickets to either Moss Harman or Deirdre Cremin. MIKE TAKES THE PLUNGE: Our congrats to Crokes, and Kerry junior player, Mike Cooper, who got married last Saturday, to local girl, Mary T Broderick, in Moyvane. Their reception was in Ostan Drom Alainn, Muckross Road, and the lucky couple have a months long honeymoon in far off New Zealand. NOLLAIG SHONA: To all GAA supporters everywhere, a very happy Christmas, and best of luck to our teams on the playing fields in 2006. To all Dr Crokes followers thanks for your support during the year. Farranfore/ Firies GAA LOTTO: Numbers 13, 29, 30. Jackpot not won. ?30 each to Joan Mulchinock, Longfield, John Keane, Clounlara, Con Dennehy c/o CIE, Rathmore, M O’Sullivan, Coolcaslagh, Denis O’Sullivan, Rathbeg. AGM: Friday 30th, mass for deceased members 6.30pm, followed by AGM at 7.45pm. ROAD RACE: The annual 4 mile road race from Farranfore to Firies and back for the Fr Dan Browne Memorial Cup will take place on St Stephen’s Day, at noon. The juvenile short races will take place during the senior race, starting at the Kerry Group Mill gate. Joggers are also welcome and there are lots of spot prizes. CHRISTMAS: Mass in Ballyhar on Christmas Eve is at 7.30pm and in Firies at 8pm. Masses on Christmas day are 10am in Ballyhar and 11.30 in Firies. Best wishes to readers at home and abroad during Christmas and the New Year. DEATH: The death has taken place of Mrs Julianne O’Sullivan, nee Scannell, Gortshanafa, Farranfore. The removal was from Barrett’s Funeral Home to Currow Church and after requiem mass on Saturday to St Michaels Cemetery, Killeentierna. Sympathy is extended to her family, relatives and friends. BASKETBALL: The u16 boys had a win over St Brigid’s and the u18s beat Rathmore by 2 points. Both games were in Farranfore Hall. 31: Farranfore Hall on Christmas night, December 25 at 9.15pm, ?1,200 in prizemoney. WHIST: Prizewinners on Wednesday 7 December: A Daly, J Boyd, D Kissane, W O’Leary, N M O’Leary, B Kerrisk, H O’Connor, D Boyd, B Cooper. Raffle; J Murphy, D McKenna, J Quirke, M B O’Sullivan. Glenbeigh/ Glencar GAA: It was with great sadness that the members of Glenbeigh/Glencar club learned of the untimely death of former club player and referee Mike (Ned) O’Sullivan. Mike gave outstanding service to the club as a player, very often his saves in goals preventing defeat for our team. When he finished playing he turned his attention to refereeing and was regarded as one of the best in the county. He was the club’s referee for many years and was always available for under age games as well as senior. We extend our sympathy to his wife Mary, son John Michael and daughter Patricia. THANK YOU: A big thanks to Mary B and her girls from the pioneer club, who donated the profits from their last disco to Tigh Beithe in the Community Centre. This ?475 is going towards buying a tv/video/dvd player for the centre. Gneeveguilla LOTTO: December 18, jackpot ?4,000. No winner. Nos drawn 2, 10, 16, 22. 5 lucky dip winners, Niamh Murphy, Killowen, Kenmare, Neily Cronin, Goulane, Gneeveguilla, Matt Dobbins, Sliabh Luachra Estate, Maureen Keane, Grotto View, Quarry Cross, Pat Hickey c/o Cadburys. Entered for week end away, Fiona McAuliffe, Gneeveguilla. Christmas hamper winner, Dan O’Leary, Millstreet. We would like to thank all our supporters, members and sponsors, and wish them all a very happy Christmas and prosperous New Year and we look forward to their continued support for 2006. AC: No winner of our weekly lotto on December 16. Numbers 18, 21, 24, 32. Lucky dip ?50 to Denis O’Leary, Convent View, and P J Murphy, Gneeveguilla. ?30 each Geraldine McCarthy, Goulane, Siobhan McCarthy and Anne Moynihan, both Gullane. Bonus not won, 5, 10, 22, 25 were the numbers. This Friday night, we have ?7,400 lotto. ?1,000 bonus draw. A monster hamper 2 x ?50, and 3 ?30, so buy now for Christmas. The club are reminded of the following fixtures, St Stephens Day, Farranfore 4 mile road race. Saturday, Dec 31, winter series n the Demesne, also Dec 31 Munster multi events and masters track and field, Nenagh. January 1st, Beaufort 10k road race. We are presently in contact with Rathmore Gym with a view to going there for our club Winter games on either Jan 21/28. More news later. Our tour on Saturday was a great success. We went to Dingle, so we had a great time. I wish to thank Denis and Mike bus drivers, Brendan and John, Shelia, Hannah and Eugene for their help. Heres wishing you all a happy Christmas and bright new year. No training for a few weeks. Keel Keel GAA Development Draw: As we approach the January deadline and as the workload will be increasing extra help would be gratefully accepted. This may involve selling tickets or being available to distribute information to different locations. The raffle is entering a critical phase and your help will be needed. Bord na N’Og: Replica Keel jersey’s are now available in the sizes 10/11 and 13/14. Contact Mike Murphy or Brian Prendergast if you wish to purchase a jersey for your child. Keel GAA: Keel GAA would like to thank all those people who have given their time to the club throughout the year whether it is selling lottery tickets or umpiring at games. We would also like to wish Keel people everywhere a happy and safe Christmas and a prosperous 2006. Keel Lotto: There was no winner of the lotto jackpot of ?2140 at the recent draw held in the Anvil Bar. The numbers drawn were 5-7-22-24 and the following were the consolation prize winners. Hampers Jerry Fitzgerald Anascaul and Ann Foley Farnes. Bottle of Whiskey. Carla Counihan, Castlemaine, Ella Hillard, Gortaleen, William O Shea, Gortanedin. Bottle of Wine. John Evans, Lassabee, Nora Ashe, Ballyarkane, James Finn, Anascaul. The next draw will be held in the Anvil Bar on Tuesday 20th December and the jackpot will be ?2210. 
