sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    November 26 2008 04:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/blueprint-fails-to-address-several-key-issues-26495035.html }
THERE isn't a single criticism that can be levelled at the actual contents of the GAA's Strategic Vision and Action Plan for the next seven years, which was unveiled yesterday. As to what's missing, now that's a different story. The report is tightly focussed and easy to read. It's largely free of controversy and won't generate any of the rows which made its predecessor -- the 2002 Strategic Review Committee (SRC) report -- such a thought-provoking document. And in a way, that's the big weakness. Ultimately, it may achieve more than SRC 2002, in that it's based on a consensus approach and doesn't contain such provocative suggestions as dividing Dublin into two, or reducing football teams to 13-a-side. Vision SRC 2002 demanded that the GAA membership buy into a vision which was far too radical and required too many rule changes. That's where the roadblocks were erected, as many of those directly affected by the proposals for a new style of governance borrowed Margaret Thatcher's "Out, Out, Out" mantra and voted much of it into oblivion at Congress. Implementing this report requires few, if any, rule changes. To use an education comparison, it has taken the existing curriculum and laid down guidelines on how to achieve the highest possible mark at exam time. It doesn't challenge or criticise the curriculum. But then again it was never going to, since new director-general Paraic Duffy outlined at the start of yesterday's launch that, unlike SRC 2002, this wasn't a root-and-branch review of structures. Instead, it's an action plan designed to maximise the efficiency of the existing set-up, based on what those who compiled the report gleaned from extensive interaction with a wide cross-section of the GAA community. It's also a things-to-do blueprint for Duffy and the changing team in Croke Park up to 2015. It extends to expectations from provincial councils, county boards and club executives in an attempt to get the entire organisation pulling in the same direction, as opposed to running independent republics. All very worthwhile and, if achieved, will result in a more streamlined and effective organisation. Indeed, the chances are that much of it will come to fruition, as Duffy's diligence and energy means there's no chance of this report heading for a high shelf and declaring itself open for business as a dust-gatherer. However, even as work begins in implementing a report which has a heavy club-community-volunteer ethos, it's important to begin looking at the entire curriculum and devising a strategy for the many serious issues which will emerge long before 2015. The whole question of how inter-county players fit into the evolving GAA will remain a conundrum. Policy Pay-for-play is regarded as the very antithesis of everything the GAA stands for, but there needs to be a more coherent policy that simply declaring it a non-starter for evermore. The relationship between inter-county players, their county boards and the GAA at higher level will, to a large degree, decide how successful the Association is into the future, simply because the big games generate the money to keep everything afloat. That's not an argument in favour of pay-for-play, but it shows how crucial it is for the GAA to get that particular relationship right. Another key area that needs to be addressed is county-ground development. The country is awash with grounds with capacities which are never required, yet basic facilities are poor in many of them. Such piecemeal developments simply cannot be allowed to continue. There are a whole range of other issues which need to be tackled too if the GAA is to tighten its grip on the sporting soul of the nation. The latest report, if fully implemented, will make the house more comfortable, but it won't apply any stress test to the foundations. In a rapidly changing sporting world, that's the next challenge which faces the GAA. CIVIL war in Cork so who, among others, steps forward for last Sunday's game to mark the 150th anniversary of St Colman's College, Fermoy? Michael Collins, of course. What's more, the Bride Rovers club man scored a goal for a development squad pressed into service to represent Cork so as to create the impression of normality when, of course, none exists. Strange, uneasy times in Cork but the irony of having a Michael Collins, involved at a time of Civil War is unmistakable. Any sign of a Treaty on Leeside? NOTICE anything about the Croke Park pitch for the recent rugby internationals? As part of the sponsorship arrangement with the IRFU, the Guinness name was emblazoned boldly on half-way and behind the posts. aNow consider this. Imagine if the GAA applied a similar arrangement for an All-Ireland hurling final, when Guinness were sole sponsors. If you thought the torrents which poured down during the Galway-Kerry game last August were heavy, they would be a mere drizzle compared to the new deluge. Only this time, the clouds would unload themselves of odium and outrage. And who would open the taps? Some within the GAA itself, but there would be outside help too from various medical personnel and other lobbies, who emerge on an annual basis on news programmes, phone-ins and in newspaper letters to castigate the GAA for the Guinness sponsorship. Where have those critics been over the past few weeks? Silent as mute lambs. So it's okay for anther sporting organisation to brand the Croke Park surface with alcohol advertising but if the GAA have any links, however tasteful and discreet, with the same company they are depicted as social delinquents. Now there's the essence of hypocrisy. Perhaps the more vocal medical elements, who regularly make demands on the GAA that don't seem to apply to other sports regarding alcohol sponsorship, might address their inconsistencies the next time they meet at a European rugby, sorry Heineken Cup, game. Incidentally, former GAA President Dr Mick Loftus, a long-time critic of sponsorship by alcoholic drink companies, is exempt from criticism because he has remained consistent at all times. Not so for many others in his profession who, in a blatant example of double standards, treat the GAA differently to other sporting organisations. 
