sport gaa
{  
    October 14 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/as-the-irish-international-rules-team-leave-for-australia-today-not-everybody-is-convinced-that-the-annual-series-is-good-for-the-gaa-so-which-is-it-jewel-or-junket-a-editor-mamartin-breheny-reports-25961711.html }
IF Tyrone manager, Mickey Harte had one wish just to complete the near-perfect season, it's likely that he would request that all air travel between Australia and Europe be cancelled forthwith. He would also delete the Australian Football League's phone numbers from the GAA database, block TV coverage of Aussie Rules football and set up kangaroo courts to try adventuring Gaelic footballers whose wanderlust tempted them Down Under. Harte, you see, is an active member of a constituency that regards the annual joust between Ireland and Australia in a game that's manufactured solely and especially for the occasion as a betrayal of GAA principles. He believes that all the GAA's resources should be directed into promoting its own indigenous games, not in trying to maintain links with another sport, played under completely different rules, on the other side of the world. OPPOSED Harte has always been opposed to the link-up with Australia, but if he were sceptical about its value before he became Tyrone manager, he has reason to positively detest it now. Star midfielder, Seán Cavanagh, who travels with the Irish squad today, has been mulling over an offer to join the Brisbane Lions for the next two years. Having sampled Australia with the International Rules team in 2003, Kevin Hughes travelled there earlier this year and missed all of Tyrone's championship campaign. Brian McGuigan also travelled to Australia early this year, but later returned home to play a crucial part in Tyrone's All-Ireland success. Hughes's absence from midfield left Harte with a problem that he found very difficult to solve. If he's to lose someone as influential as Cavanagh, it would seriously impact on Tyrone's prospects of picking up more titles in what is unquestionably a golden era for them. Still, it's a small world in travel terms these days and smaller still for GAA players who are tied to an amateur game, played almost exclusively on a small island on the western tip of Europe. Inevitably, some will look elsewhere for adventure, excitement and the chance to play a professional sport. Harte - and others who oppose the Ireland-Australia link-up - accept that but feel that the GAA are wrong to involve themselves in a game that helps identify prize Gaelic football assets for the marauding foxes of the AFL. They understand too that the players love to get an opportunity to travel overseas, live like professionals and get an opportunity to represent Ireland at international level, albeit in a contrived code. However, Harte argues if international exposure is the sole basis for the Ireland-Australia games, Gaelic football could be exported and marketed overseas. He would prefer to bring football and hurling teams abroad and show off the wonderful spectacles that both sports create. That's already being tried with the inter-provincial series but is still at the infant stage and, based on attendances in Rome and Paris for the hurling and football finals over the past two years, will need an awful lot of marketing to make them financially viable, let alone worthwhile in terms of marketing. "The inter-provincials should get the promotion. They're being buried at the same time as the International Rules are getting huge amounts of coverage. There's no logic in that," said Harte. He also believes because the Australians have to play with a round ball, most other rules for the International game are weighted heavily in their favour. Consequently, the real skills of Gaelic football are not being shown to a wider audience. Harte insists that Gaelic football is technically a far superior game to International Rules and that the GAA have a responsibility to showcase their games around the world. There is also a view that by linking up with a professional body, the GAA is like a hen showing off her chickens to the fox, who slyly lies in wait and pounces later. The foxes made a more daring swoop this year, holding trials in Limerick for young Gaelic footballers. The GAA are very unhappy with this development and will raise it with the AFL during the tour, although there is little either side can do to prevent professional clubs seeking to recruit players. However, if it were to increase, it could put the future of the International Rules series in jeopardy. "The AFL don't want this type of recruitment to develop any more than we do. We both want to maintain the International Rules series as an opportunity for players to play for their countries. The players like it and so do the public," said GAA President, Seán Kelly. Unquestionably, the series has seized the imagination of the public in both countries. Over 106,000 watched the two games in Croke Park last October while over 102,000 turned out in Perth and Melbourne for the 2003 Tests, figures that will be replicated over the next two weeks. That makes the tours more than financially viable, so critics can't attempt to undermine the games on that basis. Also, those who enjoy playing the game regard it as the ideal outlet for international exposure. ONLY CHANCE "It's the only chance we have to test ourselves against players from other countries. The same goes for the Australians, so if the players and public want it, surely it's worth continuing," said Irish captain, Pádraic Joyce. While Harte sees absolutely no merit in the hybrid game, former international, Colm Browne (Laois) believes that Gaelic football can learn from Aussie Rules. He points to the benefit of taking frees from the hand in Gaelic football, something which was picked up from Aussie Rules. However, from a viewing perspective, he is not a fan of the hybrid game. "The game itself does nothing for me. I find it aesthetically displeasing as a so-called sporting spectacle." Harte finds the game totally repugnant to his sporting constitution but will watch both tests, if only to underscore his theory that Gaelic football is vastly superior. He can't admit it but it's one occasion when he probably hopes that Seán Cavanagh plays poorly so as to convince his star midfielder that Clones and Croke Park would be more natural environments than Brisbane next summer. Both the GAA and the AFL are committed to maintaining the International Rules series and have already signed up a formal deal which is due to expire in 2012. However, negotiations to extend it will start long before then. With public and player support so strong, the series seems certain to continue unless there is a dramatic increase in the number of Irish players signing up for Australian Rules teams. If that were to happen, the GAA would have no option but to end the relationship on the basis that if would be ridiculous to do business with a professional organisation that was involved in selective asset-stripping. Sean Kelly is convinced that won't happen, but promises that the GAA will keep the situation closely monitored. "Very few Irish players have signed for Australian Rules teams over the years and we don't think that will change. "However, if it were to happen, we would obviously review the situation. Having said that, footballers who want to play Australian Rules will do so anyway, irrespective of whether or not we have international games," he said. There is, of course, another significant by-product from exposing Irish amateurs to Australian professionalism. Having lived like professionals for a few weeks, the Irish team return to the strict amateur code, a transition that can't be easy. With the GAA's amateur wall already being tested by jolts of varying strengths, the experiences of the International Rules team will, over a period of years, increase the pressure all the way from the foundations up. Ultimately, that's the real risk the GAA faces by cosying up with the AFL. 
