sport gaa
{  
    November 20 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/50m-extra-to-open-croker-25887316.html }
THE GAA will ask the Government for a further grant of up to ?50 million towards the redevelopment of Croke Park if the ban on playing rugby and soccer in the 80,000 capacity stadium is lifted at Congress next April. And, according to GAA President Seán Kelly, there is a "good chance" that the Government would look favourably at such a request since a change of policy by the GAA over the use of Croke Park would finally solve the stadium problems that have dominated the sporting agenda for a very long time. While Kelly is a strong advocate of opening up Croke Park, he warns that the IRFU and FAI would face big rental charges for the use of the stadium. With Lansdowne Road set to close its doors for redevelopment once the planning process has been completed, the Irish rugby and soccer teams will have to play their 'home' games in Britain for two years unless the GAA makes Croke Park available. The mass exodus of supporters to Britain, combined with the loss of revenue from overseas fans, would result in a huge loss to the Irish economy so, according to Kelly, it would be self-financing for the Government to make a further grant to the GAA in return for the opening of Croke Park. "There is no reason why we shouldn't make a request for a further grant to help us clear off the debt on Croke Park," said Kelly. "We would be in a strong position to do so because if we offer to open up Croke Park, subject to certain conditions, the decision as to whether Irish rugby and soccer teams play overseas will then be up to others. "Nobody can accuse us of not being good neighbours which will most certainly happen if our international teams end up playing in Britain while Croke Park remains closed," he said. With several counties set to propose motions calling for a change of the rule governing Croke Park, Kelly is anxious to dispel a number of myths regarding the current situation which, he insists, has changed dramatically in recent times. "For a start we received a ?40 million grant recently, so the argument that we shouldn't discuss opening Croke Park until the Government honoured a commitment entered into back in 2001 is no longer valid," he said. "Secondly, we have put in place a number of safeguards to ensure that if counties propose motions regarding Croke Park, they won't be ruled out of order on technicalities. "Thirdly, Lansdowne Road will be closed for redevelopment, so the use of Croke Park has become a national issue." He wants GAA members all over the country to consider the matter at upcoming AGMs so that as many members as possible express their views. "The decision on whether or not to open Croke Park must be based on the calm, practical reality of what's right for the GAA, not on emotions and scaremongering. We have to deal in facts, not myths." "Myth 1 - It has been suggested that there were strings attached to the recent ?40 million Government grant in relation to the use of Croke Park. That's absolutely untrue. "Myth 2 - Those who oppose opening Croke Park argue that if the rule is changed for one venue, it will shortly apply to other grounds. Again, untrue. Croke Park would be specified under rule as the only GAA ground available for a relatively small number of major international occasions. "Myth 3 - Opponents claim that rent money earned from the use of Croke Park would simply disappear into central GAA funds. Not so. A commitment would be given to use every cent of profit from staging international games on developing hurling and football in schools, colleges and clubs. "That would be honoured to the letter so that each year, GAA members would be able to see the positive benefits at local level accruing from using rugby and soccer money to promote our own games. "Myth 4 - The argument that playing rugby and soccer in Croke Park would help promote those games at the expense of the GAA is not valid. Croke Park holds 80,000 whereas a redeveloped Lansdowne Road will accommodate over 50,000. Does anybody seriously believe that by allowing an extra 30,000 soccer or rugby supporters into Croke Park it would make any difference in terms of marketing games that already get saturation media coverage for international occasions? "When set against the financial return, not to mention the international profile, accruing to the GAA, we would definitely be the winners. "Myth 5 - There have been claims that because Croke Park holds 80,000 whereas the current Lansdowne Road ground holds less than half that, rugby and soccer would make a financial killing by playing in our much larger stadium. Not so. If soccer and rugby make X out of playing in Croke Park, the GAA will make X Y because we can set the rates. "People seem to forget that. It's our ground so our rates apply and if others weren't happy with that, then there could be no deal. "Myth 6 - If we open up Croke Park it will change the GAA forever. Why so? There were grim predictions that the GAA was doomed when it lifted Rule 27 (the ban on GAA members playing 'foreign' games) in 1971, but the opposite proved to be the case. It was later claimed that removing Rule 21 (which prevented members of the British Army and the RUC from joining the GAA) would split the GAA in Ulster. Again, totally untrue. The GAA has never been more united in Ulster." Despite Kelly's support for a change of policy on Croke Park, he accepts that there is every chance the status quo will prevail after next year's Congress as it would take a two-thirds majority to amend the relevant rule. "It's hard to win a majority when you have to get two out of every three votes, but maybe the two-thirds rule is a good idea for an issue of this importance." He encounters very mixed views on the Croke Park issue on his countrywide travels and is often surprised by the varying approaches from different age groups. "You might think that the older generation would be against opening Croke Park while youngsters would support it. That's by no means the general case. I have met people as old as 90 years who are urging us to open up Croke Park and use the money to promote our own games, while I have met teenagers who are totally opposed to the idea." Kelly's stance has resulted in him being dubbed a traitor by some irate letter writers, but he is also encouraged by the widespread support for his views. "Those who accuse me of making this a personal issue are completely wrong. All I have ever done is respond to questions from the media regarding the use of Croke Park. "When I'm asked, I'll give my views, but I won't get involved in a debate because that's not the President's function. However, I strongly reserve the right to express my own opinions. I was elected to lead rather than just chair meetings," he said. Whatever the eventual outcome of the vote, Kelly believes that it's healthy for the GAA to indulge in a vigorous analysis of its position regarding the use of Croke Park. "The GAA had the vision and the courage to proceed with the Croke Park project when others hadn't and we now have one of the finest stadiums in the world. None of our members need have any fear that we will ever do anything to damage the aims and ideals of the GAA. Croke Park is a marvellous asset, not a problem. In the end, we'll do what's right for the GAA." 
