sport gaa
{  
    November 25 2007 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/the-future-is-in-safe-hands-26334315.html }
Duffy the man for changing timesThe GAA's new director general will focus on strategic leadership as the role expands to take on some of the duties of the president, writes Dermot Crowe CROKE park has seen more sensational moments than last Thursday's unveiling of Paraic Duffy as the next director general of the GAA -- he was favourite from a long way out. Some expected him to win even before the job was advertised, and while there were reservations about the process of selection, the winner is widely regarded as a worthy and popular choice. The GAA's immediate future is in good hands. While he professed to have had no interest in the job when he joined the Croke Park staff as national player welfare officer a year ago, many within the Association believed he was headed that way, or being led that way. He sacrificed his post as principal of St Macartan's College in Monaghan and quickly gelled with leading GAA officials. Speaking about his initial reluctance to apply for the job, he told the media on Thursday that it was the encouragement of others that persuaded him to reconsider, including, notably, Liam Mulvihill. Mulvihill's part may have been minor but it was significant that he should mention it and perhaps a little embarrassing for the current incumbent who later stressed that he had "no role" to play in the appointment of Duffy. But if Duffy was wavering, then any encouragement from Mulvihill was bound to have boosted his confidence and put him thinking positively of his prospects. In his 50s and sporting an old-fashioned pioneer pin, Duffy doesn't claim to have the charisma of Bill Clinton. But he has a warm personality and an appealing lack of pretension. A fine track record on committees and satisfactory level of gravitas moved him briskly up the ladder to become one of the most influential men in the GAA. The responsibility of steering the GAA itself, warts and all, will soon be his. He will be well paid for it. The job carries an estimated salary of €250,000 and will involve vital decisions affecting the GAA's future welfare and prosperity. But his immediate priority is to ensure that the volunteers on the ground aren't neglected. At a time when the GAA is being charged with selling its soul to commerce, neglecting the lower ranks, he is seen as an effective bridge between the hierarchy and those further down the food chain. It is a theme to which he warms. He confessed that finance wizardry is not his strong point. As an administrator, and a communicator, he is one of the GAA's shiniest assets. GAA president Nickey Brennan, who played an influential part in the process of finding a successor to Mulvihill, regards the appointment as the most important act of his tenure. Duffy, like his predecessor, won't have an executive role. He is like Mulvihill, an enforcer of GAA policy, not a wild radical. The emphasis will be on team play and bringing people onside. His appointment comes at a time of considerable change in the GAA management structure. Brennan added on Thursday last, quite unannounced, that the presidential role would change in the future, to embrace more of its former ceremonial duties and be less executive driven as had been the case in recent years. Presidents, who remain unpaid, have become involved in issues like staffing and strategic planning, moving well outside the remit of former presidents who were expected to travel the country and meet the people in a more ambassadorial role. Since Sean McCague took office after Joe McDonagh those who have filled the position have opted to do it on a full-time basis. They had no choice because of the increasing workload, having to strike some accommodation with their employers. Now Brennan has hinted that their responsibility may be greatly reduced. The GAA will soon advertise for the position of deputy to Duffy who will be given the title of Chief Operations Officer and deal with more nitty-gritty business, leaving Duffy to focus on the strategic leadership the GAA requires. This will effectively take on some of the duties which the president currently is left with. Duffy's first task will be to form a national strategic plan and work from there. While Duffy said he would be anxious to initiate reforms, show leadership and innovation, he was anxious to play down the idea of one single leader running the Association, saying it was too complex to be managed by one man. "I would be very strong on this idea of a team, I think if six or seven address an issue it will be much better than one. We will then go to Management Committee and fight for it. "On the visibility side I don't see myself personally being to the forefront, you have a President, who is the spokesman. I would see the Association going out and fighting for issues. I am not saying I won't be dealing with the media, but that is more for the president." There has been some unease over the whole appointment process, to the extent that it was raised at a recent Management Committee meeting, but crucially, no one is disputing Duffy's suitability for the role. While Brennan refused to disclose the number of people who applied for the job, it is believed 21 people applied for the position. A recruitment consultant was hired to interview each one and trim the list to nine. An interview panel was then selected to interview the surviving candidates and Brennan had a major role in their selection. Among those who failed to make the final interview were former GAA president Joe McDonagh, Director of Games Pat Daly, forthcoming GAA presidential candidate Liam O'Neill and Brian Mullins, the Dublin footballing legend. The second stage of the process pared the number of contenders down to three, each surviving candidate interviewed by Brennan, Hogan and Sean Silke. By then Duffy was odds on to win. Peter McKenna, as stadium manager, had more financial expertise and was widely acclaimed as a huge influence on the success of Croke Park as a commercial entity. But he didn't have enough GAA schooling; while Pat Gilroy, a successful businessman and former inter-county footballer with Dublin, was short of administrative experience and shocked many by going so far. Ultimately, Duffy had the right balance of attributes, capable of mixing with the conservatives in Croke Park and the more maverick elements outside. "That's not easy to do," admits Sean Kelly, former GAA President. "One of the reasons he is able to do that is that he is trustworthy. What he tells you, he means. He doesn't take positions hoping people like him, if he has a job to do he will do it professionally. He is obviously very competent but doesn't have any major agendas. He has a good understanding of what makes the GAA tick." Duffy says he is anxious to "get the GPA thing out of the way" first before he assumes the new role. He will also be hoping that the GAA can act quickly in appointing a deputy who will require lots of administrative experience. Player welfare is going to be on the agenda for some time and he is probably the most able establishment figure to deal with it. Refusing to discuss the situation in Cork, where players are threatening to strike over the county board's decision to remove the right of managers to pick their own selectors, Duffy said that if the national issue were solved then he was confident others would follow. "I am fed up talking about grants, I hope we put that to bed and develop a totally different relationship with our players. I'd like us to be clear about what we mean by amateur status; it will never be about pay for play. I don't think the relationship has to be confrontational. I would hope to see a good positive relationship." He said that the GAA had a responsibility to accept the bona fides of the GPA and that the GPA had a responsibility to show restraint and avoid excessive use of provocative trade union rhetoric in order to find a common ground. But he reiterated the GAA line that the grants issue is one created by the Government and player welfare is a separate area of concern being dealt with by his office. He promised to listen closely to what clubs have to say at an upcoming forum in Croke Park to ensure that there is a closer link between the top and lower levels of the GAA. "There is a gap, a 'disconnect', between the clubs and Croke Park. We will have a national forum in February and we don't know what they're going to tell us. People give out about Croke Park, (how) it's all about corporate boxes, but we need to hear that. That's crucial. "If I do nothing else over the next seven years I really want to do something that makes the club say, 'well, ok, he was useless on business but at least the club scene is better.'" He has a good track record on discipline. "I would not like to see another summer in 2008 like we had in 2007. Nickey (Brennan) made six recent proposals and two of those in particular I would like to see happen: and agreed procedure for a video panel to review off-the-ball incidents. I would like that in place for the next championship. And the appeals procedures need to be tightened up so we don't see the loopholes we saw last year. There is a perception out there that we are too loose and far too flexible on discipline. Last summer was not good in that regard. I would be pushing that very strongly." 
