sport gaa
{  
    April 01 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/article34582125.ece }
GAA: Abbeydorney 2-15 Crotta O Neills 0-12. Div 1 County Snr Hrl League. Abbeydorney GAA offers their sincere sympathy to the Daly Family Ballymacelligott on the death of Maureen, Mother of Mary Fealy who is the wife of James our chairman. Senior Hurling County League: Abbeydorney defeated Crotta ONiells in the opening rounds of the hurling league on Sunday last Crotta went into a early lead 0-8 to o-1 in the first quarter and abbeydorney came more into the game before half time with a goal by Stevie OSullivan and points from PJ Keane and Mike OLeary 1-05 TO 0-9, Abbeydorney wre in control of the second half with the aid of the breeze and a second goal by Ronan ODonovan.Gaa Club six Monthly Draw Our next 6 Monthly draw will be held on Sunday, April 5, Thank You For Your Support.Allianz NHL Kerry will play Laois in the 1B Relegation play off on Saturday, April 2, at 5 pm in Austin Stacks Park and the Kerry Footballers will play Cork on Sunday at 2pm in Tralee ANNASCAUL County Senior Football League: With two points on the board after a first round win over Tarbert, our lads will host Ballydonoughue this coming weekend in Rd 2 on Sunday at 2pm in Annascaul. The West Kerry League semi final replay between Annascaul and An Ghaeltacht has yet to be confirmed. Annascaul/ Lispole Minors: Well done to our minors on a well deserved draw in Cordal on Saturday last in Rd 4 of the County League. The score was 1-11 to 0-07 at half time in our favour after a great first half display. The second half saw a Cordal/ Scartaglin comeback to draw the game with a late goal to leave the final score 2-14 to 1-17. It was a great team effort by all the lads who were up against a very physical side. The next fixture is a must win home game to reach the semi-finals, where our lads will take on Ballydonoghue in Rd 5 of the league on Friday, April 1 at 6:30pm. ARDFERT St. Brendans Hurling Club/Ardfert gaa lotto draw took place in Kate Brownes with a jackpot of €1,300. There was no winner of the jackpot and the numbers drawn were 12, 15, 18 & 28. The lucky dip winners €75 Walter Sheehan, Banna, €40 Mike Corridon, Ballinprior, €25 Tommy Kirby, Liscahane. Next weeks draw takes place in McElligotts Bar with a jackpot of €1,400 and remember if your not in you can't win!! NK Senior League played in Causeway on Good Friday evening resulted in a 1p victory for Causeway on a score line 13p to 2-8. We are due to play Abbeydorney in our last game in this competition on Friday night next April 1 @7.30pm. Div 1 County League Played in Ardfert on Easter Sunday resulted in a 3p victory for Kilmoyley on a score line 9p to 12p. Our next outing in County League is away to Abbeydorney on April 8. NK Intermediate League This league begins on Wednesday evening next 30th with a home game to Kilmoyley @6.30pm. NK Minor League This league begins on Sunday next April 3 with an away game to Kilmoyley/Odorney @11.30am. They are away to Crotta the following week on Tuesday 12th @7pm in this league. Congratulations to John Egan who received a much deserved Gaa hurling player of the week award after a tremendous display against Offaly. Well deserved. Best of Luck to our Kerry Hurlers who play Laois on Saturday next @ 5pm in Austin Stacks Park, where a win will secure a place in Div1B hurling for next year. We wish the team and management well and especially our own John and Darren. Congratulations to Cian Hussey who celebrated his 21st birthday over the weekend. U6 Hurling Training: Training for U6's this Saturday in Ardfert Community Centre from 10.30am to 11.30 Cost 2euro per session. U8 and U10 Hurling TrainingTraining for U8 and U10 this Saturday in Banna AstroTurf from 10.30am to 11.30 Cost 2euro per session.U16 League ResultSt Brendans 2g2pts Rathmore 1goalU12 League FixtureLixnaw v St Brendans on Friday, April 1, at 6.30pm in LixnawU14 League FixtureSt Brendans v Ballyheigue on Saturday, April 2, at 5pm in Ardfert.U16 League FixtureLixnaw v St Brendans on Thursday, March 31, at 6.30pm in LixnawClub MercandiseJuvenile Club Jerseys are now available contact Roseanne on (086)1097661Facebook and WebsiteFor all up to date information on fixtures and matches please see our facebook page and our website at www.stbrendanshurlingclub.com ASDEE COUNTY LEAGUE: Asdee 1-7 Knocknagoshel 0-14 Played at O Rahilly Park, Ballylongford on Sunday last Knocknagoshel picked up the league points on offer after a well contested encounter that say both sides very much off target but when the final whistle sounded the key to Knocks victory was their determined play and when faced by a strong wind in the second half and with Asdee playing well and ahead by a 3 point margin and looked set for a win with 15mts remaining it was the boys from Knock who dug deep and put in a storming finish and led by James Walsh (7pts overall) finished the half kicking 7pts without reply and finished the game deserving winners. Knock with the aid of a stiff wind were much sharper and John O Keeffe opened the scoring for the visitors. At the other end a mix up in the Knock defence left Noel Long in for a handy goal after 9mts. James Walsh hit 2 points and with Conor Sheehan excellent causing endless problems running at the Asdee defence where Eoin O Carroll was excelling in his defending role. Eoin Kennedy and Mike Brosnan exchanged points and even though John Doran and Darragh Keane were winning their midfield battle it was Knock who were scoring. End to end play resulted in both sides squandering easy goal opportunities and it took a full length save from Knocks keeper Aidan Walsh to deny Darragh Keane from point blank range. James Walsh kicked further points and Asdees most impressive Paul O Carroll left the half time score Knock 0-6 Asdee 1-2. Asdee had wind advantage in the second half and were quickly into their stride with Paul O Carroll, Mike Breen and Noel Long on target and after 6mts were 1-5 to 0-6 ahead. Nial Barrett and Mike Breen exchanged points and at the three quarter stage the game became a bit niggly and players got involved but in fairness Referee Brendan Griffin had everything under control. When play resumed with the home team ahead by 2pts and when Paul O Carroll kicked a glorious point from an acute angle stretching the lead to 3pts it looked good enough for the league points; however this was as good as it got for Asdee as Knock took complete control and with James Walsh, (3) Niall Barrett, Ritchard Cottor, Michael Walsh kicking points it was Knock who held out. Paul Reidy, Dara O Connell and John Brosnan were others to impress for the winners while for Asdee Kieran Kelly, Sean Keane, Con Carmody and Martin Collins tried hard. Teams and scorers; Asdee; James Kelly, Eoin O Carroll, Martin Collins, Con Carmody, Kieran Kelly, Sean Keane, Brian Coughlan, John Doran, Darragh Keane, Mike Breen, 2pts, Eoin Kennedy, 1pt, Michael Walsh, Paul O Carroll, 3pts, Noel Long, 1gl, Dinny Dalton. Knocknagoshel; Aidan Walsh, Michael Murphy, John Brosnan, Darragh O Connell, Conor Sheehan, Paul Reidy, Denis Collins, 1pt, Darragh O Connell, Mike Brosnan, Dan Roache, James Walsh, 7pts,(2f,145), John O Keeffee, 1pt, David O Donoghue, Michael Walsh, 1pt, Nial Barrett, 3pts. Subs used, Cillian O Connor, D O Leary, Ritchard Cotter, 1pt. Referee, Brendan Griffin, Clounmacon. Type a message... MINOR COUNTY LEAGUE Asdee/Bally 3-12 Ballyduff/Duagh 3-9. The third round of the Division 5 Minor County League threw in on Saturday last March 26 in damp and blustery conditions at O Rahilly Park, Ballylongford. It proved to be a very cliched version of a game of two halves. In the opening half it was the homeside that got off to a dream start and dominated in all positions on the field. They tackled hard and were very clinical in their shooting and Ballyduff/Duagh found it difficult to cope with the work-rate been expressed by the Asdee/Bally players. By the 16th minute the homeside were leading 2-7 without reply. However after two quick goals from Adam Cronin the first half ended on a scoreline of 2-11 to 2-1. On resumption it was the visitors that started the brighter and took the game with aggression and vigor to the home side. They very quickly got on top and began whacking up a tally of scores. By the 15th minute they had an extra 1-4 on the scoreboard and by the final 10 minutes only 5pts separated the sides. Play flowed from end to end in that last 10mts with Ballyduff/Duagh having a slightly hold on the game. The home side however managed to hold out by capping their first half total with an extra 1-2 to just about edge out the challengers with the game finishing with only 3 points between the sides. Asdee/Bally travel to Keel on this Friday evening;(time to be confirmed) in the final round and a victory there agains Keel/Listry would guarantee that the team would be in the knockout stages of the competition Team and scorers; Stephen Lynch, Sean Carmody, Sean Hanrahan, Paul Murphy, 1pt, James O Connor, Cian Barrett, Jack Keane, 1pt, Jack Mulvihill, 1pt, Conor Carmody, 2pts, Thomas Doherty, 4pts, Ronan Carmody, Michael Holly, 1gl, Eoin O Connor, 2-3. FUNDRAISER. Getting closer to what is sure to be billed as the event of the year when Asdee G A A will host the spectacular "Stars in their Eyes" in the Community Centre on Saturday April 10. .There will be a heated Marquee complete with a Bar and Big Screen with tea and snacks and other refreshments to avail of also. The show which had generated huge interest throughout the locality and beyond will commence at 8pm and will see each act imitate their famous counterpart in what promises to be a night full of fun and entertainment, .There will be a heated Marquee complete with a Bar and Big Screen with tea and snacks and other refreshments to avail of also; with prizes and other surprises in store. Entry (E15) will be by ticket only and with a limited number available it would be very important that you should purchase now. Certainly a show not to be missed. BEREAVEMENT The death took place recently of another of our great footballers. Mossie O Carroll of Killelton, Ballylongford. Along with playing at all grades with Ballylongford he was also on the Asdee Intermediate team that won the North Kerry title in 1956. On behalf of the club we would like to extend our sympathy to his wife and family. GOLDEN GOAL. Week 9 winner of the Golden Goal was Ava and Liam O Hanlon, Asdee East which is in conjunction with upcoming Fixtures in both National Football and Hurling League and Championship. (Televised games) Tickets are on sale from club members at E2 each with E40 to be given out each week to the winning number which corresponds with the first goal scored. COLLECTION. The local St. Marys, Asdee will be holding their Annual Church Gate Collection for 2016 on 2nd/3rd of April for Coiste Na Nog and the Senior Collection will take place on the weekend of July 30/31st. CLUB MEETING. The next Club Meeting of St. Marys, Asdee G A A will take place in the Community Centre on this Thursday, March 31, commencing at 8pm. SHANNON RANGERS. Shannon Rangers 3-5 St. Brendans 3-14.Shannon Rangers will not be taking part in this years Garveys County Senior Football Championship after a very much below par performance against a much more determined St. Brendans side who in fairness were full value for their 9 point victory at Austin Stack Park, Tralee on Friday evening last in a championship qualifier. Representing the local club were Darragh Keane, (1-1), Martin Collins and Eoin O Carroll. FIXTURES Credit Union County Football League Division 5. Round 3 on Saturday, April 9, away to Duagh.Time to be confirmed. North Kerry League, Division 2. Back Games; Friday April 1, 7pm; (away) Asdee v Ballyduff; Asdee v Knocknagoshel, Tuesday April 5, 7pm in Knock. Saturday, April 24, @ 2.30pm Ballylongford v Asdee. Division 5 County ChampionshipQualifier Asdee will have a home tie against Firies at Walsh Park on Sunday, April 17, COUNTY MINOR LEAGUE. In the final Round on this Friday April 1, 6 30pm it will be Keel/Listry away. WEBSITES. Asdee G A A website is now up and running once again so for all our activities and match reports; just log on towww.asdeegaa.com. BALLYHEIGUE GAA LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Sunday's GAA Lotto: 13-15-18-20. The Jackpot of €3,000 was not won. Next week's Jackpot will be €3,050. The two €50 winners were: Stevie Reidy, Tiershanahan and Denise O'Halloran, Marian Park. The €25 winner was Joe Leen, C/o Taidgh. SENIORS: The senior hurlers were defeated by Causeway in round 1 of the Co. League on Sunday. PATRICK O'MAHONY TOURNAMENT: The annual Patrick O'Mahony Tournament will be played on the 16th and April 17. Teams taking part will be announced later. FIXTURES: Co. Under-14 hurling League Ballyheigue v St Brendan's at Ardfert Saturday, April 2, 5.00pm. Co. Under-12 hurling League Ballyheigue v Ballyduff at Ballyduff Friday evening 6.30pm. Co. Under-14 football League Ballyheigue v St. Senan's at John Joe O'Sullivan Park this Wednesday evening 6.30pm. Co. Under-12 football, Ballyheigue v Finuge at John Joe O'Sullivan Park Sunday evening 6pm. North Kerry Intermediate League Ballyheigue 'B' v Ladies Walk this Wednesday at Ballyduff 6.30pm. North Kerry Minor League Ballyheigue v Ballyduff at John Joe O'Sullivan Park, Sunday morning 11.30 am. BALLYDONOGHUE CLUB LOTTO: Last week's Club Lotto Draw took place at Tomaisin=92s the numbers drawn were 2,11,18,22. There was no winner. The winners of the lucky dips were: Phil O'Sullivan - Tullamore, Peggie O'Hanlon - Asdee, Joe Riordan - Lisselton, Catriona Madden - Lr.Kilgarvan, Brendan O'Driscoll - Tullamore. Free Ticket winners: Ann Bunyan - Causeway, Liz Madden - Lr.Kilgarvan, Joanne Riordan - Ballymac. Next draw, for a jackpot of €4,100 will take place in Cantillon's on Friday night. RESULTS: U14 Co League Div 7: Cordal/Scart 1-11. Ballydonoghue 1-04 Team: Ryan O'Neill, Robbie Foley, Paddy Foley, Podge O'Connor, Jack Sheehy, Emmet Kelly, Mikey Nolan(1-04), Tadhg O'Carroll, Oliver Kelly, Rónán O'Neill, Vincent O'Doherty, Jack O'Sullivan, Jamie Keane. Subs: Tom Molyneaux, Sean Galvin. U12 Co. League: Our U12's got their Co League Div 4 campaigns under way with a home games against Renard on Sunday 20th Mar. We came away with one win and one lost on score lines of Ballydonoghue 2-05. Renard 5-15. & Ballydonoghue 5-11. Renard 3-02. These games were followed by a trip to Scartaglin on Good Friday and in very blustery conditions we came out with two good wins Scartaglin 3-04. Ballydonoghue 3-11. & Scartaglin 1-07. Ballydonoghue 5-03 Next up for the U12's is a trip to Kerins O'Rahilly's on the Sunday, April 10, Co. Minor League: Ballydonoghue 1-15. Spa 0-03. Paddy Kissane, Liam Guiney, Joseph Lynch, Michael Gogarty Donal Doyle, Dan Power, Brendan O Neil, Cian Mahony (0-01), Michael Foley (0-02 ), Mike Dee, Steve Mason(1-01), Jack Behan(0-04), James Donnegan, Brian Mason(0-05), Jack Kennelly(0-02)Subs16 Cian Horgan, 17 Tadgh Molyneaux, 18 David Lynch, 19 Jamie Lynch FIXTURES: NKL Div 4 Rd1 Ballydonoghue C v Finuge C on Thursday, March 31, in Coolard @ 6.45pm. NKL Div 3 Round 1 Ballydonoghue B away to Moyvane B on Tuesday, March 29, 6.45 pm. NKL Div 3 Round 2 Ballydonoghue B v Ballyduff B in Coolard on Tuesday, April 5, 6.45pm. Co Minor League Round 5 Ballydonoghue away to Annascaul / Lispole on Friday, April 1, 6.30pm. Co Senior League Div 3 Rd 2 Ballydonoghue away to Annascaul on Sunday, April 3, 11:30pm. Our U14/U16. Anthony Maher presented our U14/U16 with their medals recently at a gathering in Tomaisin=92s Lisselton. David Kennelly was presented with a momento for his outstanding severice to Ballydonoghue Coiste na nÓg . By Anthony Maher and Coiste na nÓg Chairperson Pat O'Sullivan. BALLYLONGFORD Once again Ballylongford Gaa notes were edited with the match report taken out.LottoBallylongford Gaa Weekly Lotto Draw Jackpot €5700 25/3/16Numbers Drawn 3.6.22.32. No WinnerLucky Dips€20 Bobby Stack B.D.Agri Parts Moyvane€20 Vincent Walsh Horse and Hound Bar Ballylongford.€20 Thomas Sheehan Ballyline3 Free Tickets Alison O'Neill RusheenBar Prize Sponsored by Horse and Hound. Tom Lyons Tullahinell.Easter Eggs WinnersJack,Ciara,Liam.Main StreetAnnmarie Donovan BallylineAlison O'Brien Rusheen.Thank you for your support.County Minor LeagueBallylongford/Asdee 3-12 Ballyduff/Duagh 3-9The home side collected the points on offer in round 4 of the County League to keep their hopes alive of qualifying for the final stages of the competition. Leading by 2-11 to 2-1 at half time after playing against the wind it looked like they were in a strong position going into the second half but it was Ballyduff/Duagh who also played their best football against the wind as well and were unlucky not to get something from the game.Final round next week is on friday evening away to Keel/Listry 6-30pmReferee Tom SullivanFixturesNorth Kerry League Two back games to be confirmed.April 24 at home to AsdeeCounty Junior ChampionshipAway to Tuosist Date to be played this weekend time and date tbc.County Minor LeagueRound 5Ballylongford/Asdee v Keel/Listry Friday 1st 6.30pm.Senior County LeagueSunday, April 10, Ballylongford v Cordal.North Kerry Junior LeagueTuesday, April 5, 6-45pmBallylongford B v Desmonds B .North Kerry Under 16 League.April 11 6-45pmBallydonoghue v Ballylongford/Asdee.Lee Strand Under 12 County LeagueRound 1. April 3 6pmGneeveguilla v Ballylongford/Asdee. BALLYMACELLIGOTT LOTTO: The lotto was held in Ballygarry House on Monday, March 21, for a jackpot of €2,200. Numbers drawn were 2,4,9,22. There was no winner. Lucky Dips 1. Paddy Dineen, c/o Tom Leen 2. Padraig O Leary, Gleenageenty, 3. Nina Mansfield, Chutehall 4. Teresa Lonergan, Kilquane 5. Jack Flahive, c/o Mary Riordan Sellers Prize : Tom Leen. The lotto now stands at €2,300 and can be played at www.ballymacgaa.com SENIORS Following their good win over Dr. Crokes B in their first round of the Co. League our Senior team travel to Churchill next weekend for a Round 2 fixture. Currently this game is fixed for 12noon on Sunday April 3, however this may change. Please check facebook and twitter for further updates. MINORS Our Minor team maintained their 100% record in the Co. League with a 1-14 to 1-4 victory over John Mitchels last weekend. They hope to maintain this record when they take on Desmonds in Ballymac on Friday next at 6.30. FAOI 16 Ballymacelligott U 16's played St. Pats Blennerville in Blennerville on Easter Monday evening. The underfoot conditions were very trying and it was a credit to both teams the way they adopted to play some excellent open football. St. Pats started the game very strongly tagging on a few early scores, but Ballymacelligott gradually worked their way back into the game to lead at halftime on a score line of 2 -7 to St. Pats 0-5 The second half started in the same way with St. Pats on top but the hard work of all the Ballymac backs limited their scoring opportunities. As the half wore on Ballymac again took over and scored some excellent scores late on, to leave the final score St. Pats 1- 10 Ballymacelligott 4- 11 This was a very good team performance with 8 different scorers and all 21 players contributing to the win. Team, Darragh Lynch, Eoin Culloty, Tadhg Brick, Kevin Lenihan, Liam O'Brien, Daire O Connor Chawke, Diarmuid Lynch, Joshua O'Keeffe, James Carmody, Barry Lyons, David Rogers, James Carmody, Dylan McHuge, Cillian Gallagher, Daire Keane, Aidan O'Brien, Dylan Dunne Moriarty, Alusin Jah, Cian Godley, Jonathan Lowe, Brian Cassidy. FAOI 14 U14A: Ballymac Boys start off their league campaign with a home game against Ballyduff on Wednesday the 30th of March. Throw in 6.30pm U14B: Ballymac Boys start off their league campaign with an away tie to Beaufort on Wednesday the 30th of March. Throw in 6.30pm. FAOI 12 Ballymac Gold & Blue Boys teams start off their League campaign with away fixtures to Dr.Crokes on Sunday 3rd of April. Both games throw in at 6pm. FAOI 10 Ballymac U10 boys (born in 2006) are playing in a 9-a-side blitz in John Mitchel's club next Thursday the 31st of March. The Blitz starts at 4pm. All players to arrive for 3.45pm. The Ballymac Academy continues next Sunday at 11am the 3rd of April. FAOI 8 The Ballymac Academy continues next Sunday at 11am the 3rd of April. FAOI 6 The U6 boys and girls will continue training in St. Brendan=92s hall next Sunday the 3rd of April. Any parent who has a boy/girl interested in joining the academy on Sunday mornings please contact Dave Slattery, Coiste na nOg Secretary on 0872201042 or the ladies Secretary Anthony Curran on 0872713507. CAILINI FAOI 14 Our U14 girls had their first game of the year when they took on Austin Stacks in the Round 1 of the Co. League on Easter Monday last. On the day the Tralee girls were victorious on a scoreline of 5 - 1 to 1 - 8. CAILINI FAOI 12 Our U12 girls had a very good victory over Castleisland Desmonds last Tuesday evening in Round 2 of the North Kerry League. They ran out winners on a scoreline of 3 - 6 to 0 - 2. BWILDERED will once gain take place on Saturday April 30, 2016 at 11am. Ballymac GAA Club and Lee Strand are once again joining forces in the promotion and running of this event. We are also fortunate that John Lenihan and Joe O Connor of Irelands Fittest Family are designing the course for the event. Full details on entry and all other information can be found at www.bwildered.ie and also on the dedicated facebook page. DEFIBILATOR TRAINING - A defibilator training night will be held on Tuesday, April 5, at 7.00pm in Austin Stacks Park. Anybody from the Club who is interested in attending please contact Club Secretary Fionnan Fitzgerald on 0879860441. CIARA GRIFFIN Well done to Ballymac native Ciara Griffin who was part of the Irish Rugby Squad which took part in the recent 6 Nations Championship. Ciara played in all the games and scored a try in their final game against Scotland. SYMPATHY - Last weekend a dark shadow was cast over the Parish with the untimely death of Carol Leen, Kilquane. Carol's husband Noel and sons Kevin and Eoin have had a long and continuing involvement in Ballymac GAA Club, all at the Club extends its deepest sympathy to the Leen family on their sad loss. At dheis De go raibh a anam. KNOCKNAGOSHEL Membership; Anyone wishing to be a member for 2016 need to pay membership in the coming weeks. Only paid up members are entitled to tickets for Kerry matches. Membership can be paid to Club Registrar Jack O'Connell, Club Secretary Steven O'Connell or Club Chairman Noel Brosnan. Adult Players: €50 Students €30 Under 18's €20 Under 16 Downwards €15 2+ Under 16 Downwards €25Family Membership €85 General Membership €30 Division 5 County League; Knocknagoshel seniors picked up their first win of the season against Asdee in Ballylongford in the Division 5 of the County league. After a tight first half the teams went in level at the break 1-2 to 0-5. Asdee started the second half very well and opened up a 4 point lead. The young Knock team showed great team spirit to come back from 4 points down and finish the match scoring 8 points on the trot to win on a scoreline of Knocknagoshel 0-14 Asdee 1-7. Lotto; The next lotto draw is on this Saturday, April 2, in Walsh's Bar at 10pm. Tickets available from all club members and players. Please support. Minors; The Knock / Brosna minors lost out to Beale 3-7 to 1-8 in the Minor County League CASTLEGREGORY This is the last week to pay your membership. If you want to play and, more importantly, be insured to play this year please pay your membership to Sean Spillane or another committee member. Castlegregory Dominant Over Ballyduff: astlegregory chairman Pat O'Shea read an excerpt from the Irish Proclamation before kick off in honour of those who gave their lives for Irish freedom in Easter 1916 The weather was not as kind to West Kerry as it was in O'Connell Street, Dublin with wet and windy conditions making it difficult for good football. Ballyduff opted to play against the wind and started better with a nice build up the pitch causing a close in free which was scored by corner forward Jerimiath Houlihan in the 3rd minute.It was the 10th minute before Castlegregory registered a point which came from play by lively corner forward Brandon Hoare. It was just as difficult for both sides to kick and pass with any degree of accuracy but the home side finally started to take hold of proceedings. Castlegregory wing forward Jason Griffin received a pass from Liam Maunsell into the danger zone and could have claimed a goal but blazed it over the bar on the 13th minute. Full forward Maunsell followed up with a point minutes later as the home side seemed to be winning all the breaks from the Ballyduff kick out. Three pointed frees (Keelan Dowling) before half time as a result of relentless pressure on the Ballyduff defence left it 0-6 to 0-1 at the break.Despite being against a big wind, Castlegregory continued to dominate in the second half with yet another pointed free in the 33th minute. Ballyduff did pull one back within a minute from centre forward Barry O'Grady but Castlegregory kept their work rate high and ended an intense two minutes of passing with a Timmy Moriarty goal which came from a rebounded James Galwey shot off the post in the 10th minute. A pointed 14th yard free a minute later (Dowling) and it seemed Ballyduff heads would drop. But they battled on and pegged back a point from play (O'Grady) on 14th minute followed by the North Kerry side's midfielder Paul O'Carroll with a 20th minute point from play to reduce the lead to seven points. But Castlegregory came right back with a point and it looked like the lead was secure.but then things changed as Kerry senior hurler Jack Goulding got a great solo goal on 30th minute for Ballyduff to leave only four between them. With plenty injury time to be played this was Ballyduff's chance to drive on. However, on the kick out Castlegregory went up the field and ended a great move with a Griffin goal and held them to just one more score in the five minutes of injury time to record their second victory in the country league on a score line of 2-9 to 1-5.TeamsCastlegregory 1. David O'Dowd, 2. James Galwey, 3. Nicholas Fitzgerald, 4. Timmy Walsh, 5. Joe O'Connor, 6. Gearoid Fitzgerald, 7. John Joe Hussey, 8. Timmy Moriarty (1-0), 9. Adam O'Donnell, 10. Jason Griffin (1-2), 11. Gavin O'Connor, 12. Keelan Dowling (0-5 frees), 13. Jordan Quirke, 14. Liam Maunsell (0-1), 15. Brandon Hoare (0-1).Subs: Thomas O'Connor for B Hoare.Ballyduff1. James Sheehy, 2. Paul Nolan, 3. Eddie Joy, 4. Thomas Slattery, 5. John P Leahy, 6. AnthonyO'Carroll, 7. Michael Hussey, 8. Roger Costelloe, 9. Paul O'Carroll, 10. John O'Regan, 11. Barry O'Grady (0-3, 0-2 free), 12. Jack Goulding (1-0), 13. Ger Houlihan (0-1 free), 14. Cathal Kearney, 15. David Goulding. Subs: Liam Boyle for D Goulding, Declan Boyle (0-1) for J O'Regan. CoisteI was really encouraging down at the pitch last weekend to see U-10's training (Trainers Ger O'Callaghan & Clement Crean) followed by U-12's who were coached by ''Young Seniors; Jordan Quirke and Brandon Hoare (John O'Connor, Enda Whelan & Jason O'Connor are also coaches for this group). This was followed by U-16's and Minors under the guidance of Peter Butler, Patrick O'Donnell and Gavin & Joe O'Connor (with back-up from Seamus Rafter and Tim Dennehy). It's fantastic to see players, both current and not so current, giving something back to their club. And that was only a fraction of the people that are involved with developing our younger players. The Future is bright, Caislean Abú! CASTLEISLAND DESMONDS Desmonds Travelled to Play Templenoe in Round 2 of The Kerry Co. League last Saturday.This game was always was going to be a hard road trip as Templenoe were only recently crowned All Ireland Junior Club Champions. The home side went in to an early lead with a point & goal inside the 1st two minutes on the clock from Sean Sheehan & Tadgh Morley ,and they had the Desmonds Backs at sixes & sevens during the 1st quarter of the half. They followed this With 2 wides from play. Thomas Hickey of Desmonds got the 1st chance to score from play but this was to see his attempt go wide. Templenoe added another point from Stephen O'Sullivan to see the home side lead by 1:2 to 0:0 after 11 minutes of play. It was to take the Visitors Club Captain Maurice Hickey to open their account with a point from play after 14 minutes on the Clock. Should Templenoe have done better with their Kicking they would have been well in front as they missed their next 5 shots in a row. Desmonds introduced Sub. Cian O'Connor in midfield For Pa White after 18 minutes of play. John Spillane then kicked another point from play for the home side. We then saw Desmonds Cian O' Connor scored their 2nd point from a free to go in at half time trailing by 1:3 to 0:2 The second half started badly for Desmonds as Thomas Hickey went off injured in the 1st minute & we saw Tomas Lynch Introduced. In the next 8 minutes of play we were to see Templenoe miss 4 more wides. They were to miss a total of 18 wides in the match and this tells its own story for the visiting team .Desmonds were always under pressure in the 2nd half of the game, much like they were in the 1st half of the game which was played in wet & windy conditions for most of the game. Desmonds were to introduce subs Gearoid McCarthy & Chris Brosnan for Michael Walsh & Sean Lynch after 12 & 20 minutes of the 2nd half. Templenoe went on to score 2 more goals in the 15th & 23 min of play from corner forward Stephen O' Sullivan who put in a man of the match display. Cian O'Connor added other point from a free for the visitors. Desmonds introduced substitute Graham O'Connor for Barry Lunch and he was to score Desmonds only goal in Injury time this was then followed up by a point from play by Maurice Hickey in the 34th minute of the half to make the score board look more respectable at the end of the game .Overall it was a bad day at the office for Desmonds and the game finally finished up with a scoreline of. Templenoe 3:5 to Castleisland Desmonds 1:5 Next co league game is at Home to Glenbeigh- Glencar on Sunday, April 10, Time TBC The Desmonds senior ladies travelled to Derrynane to play Southern Gales in the co. league last Sunday where they were beaten by 6:10 to 4:2. Next game takes place away to Corca Dhuibhne on Sunday, April 3, @11am in Lispole. All teams will have to play without their county players as Kerry play Monaghan in the national league. Congratulations to Leanne Mangan who celebrated her 21st at the Southern Gaels game. The club lotto take place next Saturday, April 2, in Kearneys Bar with the jackpot @€4400. Tickets @€2 & 3 for €5 will be on sale during the week. The Demonds Minors had a very good victory in the co. league over Moyvane/ Tarbert on the scoreline of of 2:13 to 3:06 played in Castleisland last Saturday, March 26, @4pm Under age fixtures : Desmonds under 12 team host Na Gael in round 1 of the co.league on Sunday, April 3, @6pm. The under 14 team start their co. league programme away on Wednesday, March 30, to Fossa @6:30pm. The under 16 team host Laune Rangers in round 3 of the central region on Monday, April 4, @ 6:45pm. We would very much appreciate if parents & supporters would kindly show their support for the teams over theses three games. Causeway GAA Results: Causeway Seniors completed two fixtures last weekend. In NK league Causeway 2-9 St Brendans 0-14. In County League Causeway 1-14 Ballyheigue 0-3. GAA Senior Fixtures: Intermediates v Abbeydorney in NK League this evening(Wed).Venue to be confirmed. Seniors v Kilmoyley in NK league down for Saturday...but due to Kerry v Laois, time and possibly day to be confirmed. Details will be on bulletin board at club rooms as soon as confirmed. NK Minor league first fixture will take place on Sunday next at 11.30am v Tralee Parnells in Tralee. NK Intermediate v Ballyheigue on Wed April 6 at 6.30 in Ballyheigue. GAA Juvenile Fixtures: U16s v Ballyduff at 6.30 in Causeway tomorrow (Thursday). U12s v Kenmare/Kilgarvan away on Friday April 1. GAA Mass: A mass for past, present and deceased club members will be held in Causeway church on Friday(April 1) at 7.30pm. Club lotto: Nos drawn 4,15,17,32. No Jackpot winner. €50 winners Tadhg Diggin, Denis o Sullivan. €25 winners Therese Diggin, Mike Fitzpatrick, Leanne Sheehan. CROTTA O'NEILLS FINAL CALL FOR CROTTA MEMBERSHIP The Final reminder that this Wednesday, March 30, is the deadline for Crotta hurling club membership renewal for current and new members. New members always welcome. Membership is as follows: 50 for players, 30 for general members, 20 for students and OAP. Only people who are fully paid up members of Crotta Hurling Club shall be entitled to request tickets for any Kerry matches. To join this years membership contact Club Registrar, Paul O'Donoghue now, or any club officer. SPECIAL OFFER You can now purchase your annual Crotta hurling club membership and a Crotta hurling club yearly lottery ticket, which entitles you to one ticket in the weekly lotto draw for 52 weeks . Membership and yearly lotto ticket can be obtained from all club officers now for only 100 euro. Closing date is also Wednesday March 30, 2016. KERRY U-15 HURLERS Well done to the Kerry U15 hurling squad in the Gary Scollard tournament on Saturday, March 19, in John Mitchell's GAA Club pitch, Tralee. Kerry were unluckily losing to Cork in the final after a fantastic win against Limerick in their first game. The Crotta hurling Club was well represented by James Sheehan, Aodhan MC Kenna, Daniel O Rourke and Declan O'Donoghue. FIXTURES Crotta U-14 Hurlers will play St.Pats of East Kerry on Friday evening March 25 at 5.00p.m in the Lee Strand County League Div 2 tie at the sportsfield, dromakee, Kilflynn. The Crotta verus Rathmore U-14 game on Saturday last was called off as Rathmore were unable to play. The Crotta Senior Hurlers will commence their County Senior Hurling League Div 1 campaign against Abbeydorney on Sunday, March 27, at 1.00p.m in the sportsfield, Abbeydorney. DARTS NEWS The winners of the weekly doubles darts tournament in Parker's bar, Kilflynn on Saturday night March 26 were Declan Falvey and J.P Twomey who defeated Sean Leahy and Maurice Fealy in the final. The next tournament will take place in Parker's Snug bar on Saturday April 2. Names in for 10.30pm. The Tuborg and District Darts league results Week 9, Parker's A team defeated The Huddle Bar, Tralee By 6- 1 on Friday night March 25, and Parker's Pub B team had a bye in The Tuborg Tralee and District Darts league. KERRY SENIOR HURLERS Best of luck to the Crotta Hurlers Sean Weir, Shane Nolan and Jordan Conway and their Kerry Hurlers and their management who play Laois in The Allianz Hurling League Division 1B Play-Off* on Saturday, April 2 in Austin Stack Park, Tralee, at 5pm *Loser plays against winners of Division 2A final in relegation/promotion play-off RAMBLING HOUSE Listowel Rambling House will be held in the Seanchaí Centre, Listowel on Thursday, March 31, from 9.15 pm. A great evening of traditional music, song, dance & storytelling is guaranteed. Admission is free, tea/coffee served. POETRY READING Kerry Poets Noel King and Louis Mulcahy will give a reading in the Seanchaí Centre on Thursday, April 7, 7.30 pm. Admission Free. NOTES Anyone interested in submitted items for the Kilflynn notes, can contact Mike on 066 7135129 or 087 9794541 or email kilflynnnotes@gmail.com before 12noon on Monday. Currow Currow Coiste Na nOG: U16: Currow travelled to Kenmare on Easter Monday, March 28, to play Kenmare in the East Kerry League, Match report to follow in next week's column. U14: Our U14 team began their season on Wednesday, March 30, where they made the journey to Listry to play Keel/Listry in the County league. U12: Currow are due to play Duagh in the county league this coming Sunday, April 2, at 6pm in Currow GAA ground. Please check with club officers, subject to change. U6,U8,U10s: training continues this coming Saturday at 10am in Currow GAA ground. Currow Currans Ladies Football Club: On Sunday last March 26 our U14 Girls started their County League campaign when we travelled to Kenmare to play a Kenmare/Sneem combination. Because of the Easter holidays and a large injury list a very understrength Currow Team travelled and put up a great performance in the circumstances against a very strong Home Team, with the final score Kenmare/Sneem 5-06 Currow 0-01. Best for Currow were Cait O'Mahony, Cira Fitzgerald, Maria Daly, Emma Buckley, Fiona Brosnan, Lauren Butler and Danielle Moriarty. Our Senior Ladies will play Dingle next Sunday in Currow while our U14 Team will travel to South Kerry to play Southern Gales LIXNAW Hurling Club; Fixtures for the week: Our u12's are at home this Friday the 1st against Ardfert at 6:30 pm Our u14's are away to St Pats this Saturday the 2nd at 5pm Our u16's are at home this Thursday the 31st against Ardfert at 6:30pm FIXTURES; County Senior Hurling League Round 1 Lixnaw V Ballyduff in Ballyduff this Friday, April 1, at 6.30pmague North Kerry Intermediate League Lixnaw V Crotta in Lixnaw on Wednesday evening March 30 at 6-30pm. KERRY HURLING; SENIOR- Kerry play Laois in the AHL Div 1 B relegation playoff game in Austin Stack Park this Saturday at 5.00pm. Good luck to the team and management. MEDAL PRESENTATION NIGHT; the rescheduled Lixnaw Hurling Club medal presentation function took place last Thursday night in the Community Centre. A well-attended function witnessed the presentation of the County Minor Championship and North Kerry u16 championship medals. The u16 medals were presented by Kerry winning All Ireland winning captain John Buckley while former All Ireland winning Clare captain Anthony Daly presented the minors with their medals. Presentations were also made to John Griffin, James Flaherty and Darragh Shanahan, Lixnaw members of the successful 2016 Kerry National League and Christy Ring cup winning team while Robert Silles, Liam Mullins, Ger Stackpoole, John Buckley, Shane Conway, Colin Sheehy, Tom Foley, Jason Keane, Jeremy McKenna and David Silles were recognised following the success of the Kerry All Ireland Minor B winning combination as was their Coach during the campaign, Jonathan Silles. Awards were also presented to the successful Lixnaw team management namely, Tommy Molyneaux, John Griffin, Nick Mullins and Willie Dowling from the minor and Mike Kelliher, Con Keeffe and Tommy Molyneaux from the u16s. Congratulations to Elaine & Nick Mullins who were the worthy recipients of the Club Person of the Year award and Paddy Hegarty was a popular recipient of the Hall of Fame award. Thanks to the following for their co-operation Lixnaw Community Centre committee for the use of their excellent facilities for the occasion, Padraig Dennehy, Ian Liston, those who organised and decorated the hall, those who organised the catering and prepared refreshments etc.many, many thanks. EASTER DRAW; Thanks to all who supported our Easter Draw. The results are as follows; 1st Prize Easter Hamper-Sponsored by Foleys Galaexpress; Mike Kelliher, Banemore. 2nd Prize; Mid-Week break at Woodlands Hotel Adare; Mrs Hennessy, Finuge. 3rd Prize; Meal Voucher for Kingdom Greyhound Stadium; Paddy Hegarty. 4th Prize; Meal Voucher for Devon Inn Hotel- James Flaherty. 5th Prize; Lixnaw Jersey- Sponsored by Foleys Galaexpress; Elaine Mullins. 6thPrize; Signed Kerry Jersey compliments John Tweek Griffin; Maureen Quilter, Lixnaw. 7th Prize; Box of Chocolates; Siobhan Walshe, Irremore. Margaret Conway, Lixnaw.. HURLING CLUB FIELD DEVELOPMENT MEETING will be held this Friday night in the clubrooms at 9.00pm. All welcome. SYMPATHY; The death has occurred of Mike O'Keefe, formerly of Ballinclogher and Celbridge, Co Kildare. Sympathy to his wife Cait, daughter Saileog, brothers Pat, Johnny and Con, other relatives and friends. May His Gentle Soul Rest in Peace. KILMOYLEY Kilmoyley hurling club Funeral: It was with great sadness that the club and parish learned of the passing of legendary Kilmoyley hurling icon John Flanagan. John was the holder of five senior County Championship medals in 1962, '63, '64, '70 and '71 winning three with his brother Brendan and was captain in 1963. John also captained Kerry's hurlers to Junior All Ireland glory in 1972 when he scored 2 great goals to defeat Warwickshire, and was honoured for this achievement by the Kerry County board at their Millennium banquet. As a grandson of the great Jack Quane that was a member of Kerry's All-Ireland winning side of 1891, John was destined for hurling greatness. He was an iconic figure in the number 6 jersey for Kilmoyley, inspiring those around him with his courageous displays. He would speak of his achievements and great feats with Kilmoyley and Kerry, and challenge our younger hurlers to emulate those exploits to help bring home more championships to Kilmoyley. John had a great love of greyhounds and kept himself fit throughout the year, walking dogs in his wellingtons back the road to the church. Most of his dogs included Kilmoyley in their names such as Kilmoyley hero and Kilmoyley lass, one of his bigger wins came in the Rathdowney trial stakes in Laois in 1986 with Starfortell. John was also a great man for shooting birds in the shooting season, and was a well known character in places such as Doneraile, Co. Cork. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Ellen. Ar dheas Dé go raibh a anam. Juvenile Fixtures: Our U16s team take on Rathmore this Thursday evening 6.30 p.m in Kilmoyley.. Our U12's have their first match of the season also at home against Rathmore on Friday evening with our U14 team scheduled to play Rathmore away on Saturday evening.Seniors resultCredit Union Co SHL rd.1 result Kilmoyley 0-12 St. Brendans 0-9. This was the fourth meeting in a row between the sides since last years county final, and credit to both sides, this was another sporting game despite the very wet underfoot conditions following recent heavy rain. Both teams were very much depleted for various reasons, and ultimately Kilmoyley ground out this win thanks to the excellent freetaking by Brendan Harris. Kilmoyley team: Aiden McCabe, John Godley, Ian Brick, Paudie O'Connor, Robert Collins, Daniel Collins, Flor McCarthy, Jordan Brick, Brendan Harris, Maurice O'Connor, Sean Maunsell, Emmet Meehan, Philip Flaherty, Adrian Royle, Eoin McCarthy.FixturesIntermediates vs St. Brendans in Ardfert Wednesday at 6:30pmBest of luck to the Kerry senior hurlers who take on Laois in the Division 1B relegation play off this Saturday in Tralee. SCARTAGLIN GAA REGISTRATION Scartaglen GAA Club wish to advise that the closing date for registration/membership of the club for 2016 is this Thursday March 31. Anyone who has not paid their membership by that date will not be entitled to have their names included in draws for Munster and All Ireland Championship tickets. LOTTO DRAW Scartaglen GAA Club held their Easter Lotto Draw in Hughes Bar Cordal on Saturday night last March 26. The jackpot was E4,600 and was not won. Numbers drawn were: 7, 10, 11, 12. Consolation prize winners were as follows: E40 -- Denise Dunlea, Barna ; E30 -- Cormac Collins, Banard, Gneeveguilla ; Brighid Walsh, Cordal ; E20 -- Emma Buckley c/o Fred O Connor, Bridget O Sullivan, Knockrour, Catriona O Connell. The next draw will be in O Connors Bar on Sunday night April 17 when the jackpot will be E4800. SOCIAL AFTERNOON Castleisland District Social Club will hold a Social Afternoon in Castleisland Day Care Centre on Sunday next April 3 from 2-5pm, all are welcome. MINOR COUNTY LEAGUE Cordal/Scart remain unbeaten after another keenly contested Co League Game played in Cordal on Saturday last. At full time the sides finished all square on a scorleine of Cordal/Scart 2-14 Annascaul/Lispole 1-17. The visitors led 1-11 to 0-7 at Half Time. The home side got off to a better start in the second Half with Flor Mc Carthy striking for a goal in the 12th minute, after Eddy Horan 0-2 and Kieran Donoghue had kicked good points. Four unanswered Annascaul/Lispole points between the13th and 20th minute had them leading by Six. A T J Connor pointed free in the 21st minute was cancelled out a minute later by Brian Kenedy. Jason Cronin pointed for the Home side in the 23rd minute. A minute later T J Connor found the Annascaul/Lispole net. Cordal/Scart were now getting on top and Kieran Donoghue reduced the margin to the bare minimum with a excellent point. Both sides had chances before Hugh Connor kicked the final point to level matters. Cordal/Scart Team and scorers: Conor Mitchell, Padraig Brosnan, Sean O Connell, Jack Mc Auliffe, Josh Kerin, Hugh O Connor (0-2), Kieran Donoghue (0-3), Flor Mc Carthy (1-0), Kieran Enright, Sean Horan (0-1), T J O Connor (1-2), Sean Walsh (0-1), Eddy Horan (0-4). Subs Used Patrick O Connor, Jason Cronin (0-1), Padraig O Connor. Ref: Micheal Walsh Before the game a minute silence was observed in memory of the late Tom Wrenn a fitting tribute to a great Cordal Club Man. EK SENIOR LEAGUE Scartaglen are due to play Firies at Farranfore on Sunday next at 12 noon in the East Kerry Senior League Division 2 Semi Final. The winners will play Fossa in the Final. Extra time will be played at the game at Farranfore if necessary. LADIES GAA REGISTRATION There will be a registration session for all players who intend to play football for Scartaglen Ladies Football Club for the coming year. This registration session will be in the Clubhouse on Monday evening next April 4 from 7-8pm. New players most welcome and they should bring along a birth cert if they wish to register. TARBERT FIXTURES: Tarbert Seniors take on Brosna next Monday in the North Kerry League in Knocknagoshel at 2pm. Underage team's games also commencing this week, please check Tarbert GAA facebook or tarbertgaaclub.com for all fixtures. MEMBERSHIP: Membership for the 2016 season is now being collected. Players 50 euro, Students 25 euro , Ordinary Membership 25 euro, OAPs 10euro. Membership dues to be forwarded to Donnacha Enright, Club Registrar. Closing date for membership is March 31. Kerryman 
