sport gaa
{  
    November 11 2017 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/localnotes/around-the-districts-36295824.html }
Blackwater DISCO The next teenage disco run by Blackwater camogie club will take place on Friday, November 17, from 8.30 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the Blackwater Parish Hall. Entry €5. This is a fully supervised event and strictly no alcohol. Please spread the word. Meeting There will be a general open meeting in Blackwater Hall on Tuesday, November 7, at 8 p.m. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the options regarding the proposed Blackwater Community Centre. The two major options are either to redevelop the existing hall or to build a new one at a site close by. Plans for both options have been prepared, on a pro bono basis, by architect Fergus Finlay and costed by Douglas Taylor. Substantial fundraising will be needed to implement either option. As important decisions will be made at this meeting that will affect this and future generations it is hoped that it will be well attended by members of the community in Blackwater. Active Retirement:  Members who attended the Wexford Light Opera production of Hits from the Musicals' recently, report that a it was a great night out and a most enjoyable production. next group get-together is on November 13th at 4pm, Levers Bar [Whelans] when there will be a talk and advice given on Power of Attorney. The talk will be given by Mr.Cormac Mullen.   The annual general meeting is scheduled for November 27th [more details to follow]. screen hall event Circus chuckles stage show screen hall Friday 10th November Showtime 6.30 pm until 7.30pm Sharp doors open at 6pm as a large crowd is expected this show is for all ages circus clowns jugglers fire juggling fire eating and much more no sweets or drinks for sale but you can bring your own price only €5 per person all new 2017 show Bree-Galbally Bree Youth Club EGM Bree Youth Club will hold an EGM on Tuesday, November 7, at 8 p.m. in Bree Community Centre. All parents and guardians are invited to attend. Youth Club Disco The next Youth Club senior disco will take place in Bree Community Centre on Friday, November 10. Courtnacuddy Youth Club will host a Junior Inter-club party on the same night. Members are reminded that for health and safety reasons and to ensure adequate supervision cover, only members who have signed-up for the discos by the designated date may attend. Bree NS Clothing Collection Bree NS parents' association will host a Clothing, Household Textiles and Mobile Phone Collection on Thursday and Friday, November 9 and 10, at Bree Community Centre. Clothing, Soft Toys, Shoes, Handbags, Belts, Laptops, Mobile Phones, Curtains, Towels etc will be accepted and can be dropped off on Thursday, November 9, from 6.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. and on Friday, November 10, from 8.30 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. Church gate collection Bree-Davidstown Community Games, which involves children from the parishes of Bree, Davidstown and Cloughbawn, are holding church gate collection in these areas on Saturday, November 11, and Sunday, November 12. Your support would be appreciated. Bree Parish Journal Preparations for Bree Parish Journal are under way for this year's edition due for publication before Christmas. All clubs and organisations in the parish are asked to have a report of their activities over the past two years ready for the end of October. All items, including advertisements, to be advised to Jim and Clare Doyle, Garranstackle 053 9247706 or email jamcsdoyle@eircom.net. Bree Active Retirement The next social of Bree ARI will be held on Wednesday, November 15, in Bree Community Centre from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. with the usual bingo, tea and chat. The raffle cards are to be returned at this meeting. The Christmas party has been organised for December 20 in the Riverside Hotel. Anybody, who would like more information please contact 086 0747823. Leslie Dunne Album Release Leslie Dunne will launch his new Solo Album ''How Great Thou Art' with a concert on November 26 in the Church of the Assumption, Bree. The concert will start at 2.30 p.m. and Leslie will be joined by guest artists. Chess and Draughts Bree-Davidstown Community Games Chess and Draughts resume this Tuesday, November 7, from 7 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. in Bree Hall. All children from eight years to 16 years are welcome. Cost is €2 per child to a maximum of €4 per family. Youth Club Soccer Competition The FDYS soccer competition for under-12, under-15 and under-18 will be held on Friday, November 17, in the Astro Active Centre, Enniscorthy. Interested members should speak with Larry Delaney, Sports Co-ordinator asap. Bree AC News Indoor Training has resumed in Bree Hall on Thursday nights and outdoor training takes place on Monday and Wednesday evening, all starting at 7 p.m. Next outing for the club will be the Leinster Championships in Adamstown on November 12. Pioneer News A meeting of Bree PTAA will be held on Tuesday, November 7, in Bree Community Centre at 8 p.m. All Pioneers in the parish are asked to attend this important meeting.  Any pioneers in the parish, who are due gold or silver pins please contact Eddie Dunne by November 7 the Pioneer Social Dinner is on November 24 in the Riverside Park Hotel, Enniscorthy. Further information from Eddie Dunne. Sacred Heart Calendars costing €2.50 each and Pioneer Christmas Cards costing €3 for a pack of five are now available to buy from Eddie Dunne. SERT Wexford table quiz South East Radiotherapy Trust provides a daily voluntary transport service from Wexford to Whitfield Radiotherapy Clinic, Waterford. SERT are holding a table quiz on Wednesday, November 15, at 8.30 p.m. in Wexford Golf Club costing €40 per table of four. Great prizes and a monster raffle on the night. Come along with or without a team and enjoy a fun night and help support this voluntary service. All support would be greatly appreciated. Our Lady's Island Mass of Remembrance The November Mass of remembrance will be celebrated on Saturday next, November 11, in Tacumshane at 6 p.m. and in Our Lady's Island at 7 p.m. Bingo Our Lady's Island GAA weekly bingo in Butler's every Tuesday at 8 p.m. This week's jackpot is €650 - come along for your chance to win. Old School Cards Cards every Tuesday in Tacumshane Old School at 8.30 p.m. Adm €5, tea coffee.  Christmas Cards OLI 'Women's Kitchen' Project will have a stall selling their unique handmade Christmas cards at the Christmas Craft Fair on Sunday, November 26, in Hotel Rosslare from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.  All proceeds from this stall will be used to fund future community projects in Our Lady's Island. Ballycogley Players A little reminder. The Ballycogley Players will perform their 'Night of Comedy' on Friday, November 10, in St Martin's GAA Complex, Piercestown and on Sunday, November 12, in Carrig-on-Bannow Hall with an 8 p.m. start time on both nights. Admission €10.  Looking forward to seeing you all for a great night of laughter and entertainment. ICA  The November meeting of Our Lady's Island ICA will take place on Monday, November 13, in the Community Hall at 7.30 p.m. New members always welcome. Split-the-pot Congratulations to Dolores Murray, on winning €160 in last week's split-the-pot draw.  Draw takes place in the community centre on Sunday after Mass.  Thanks to all involved. Murrintown Community centre Bingo - Mondays 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Bus pick up at usual points. Taekwon-Do - Mondays and Wednesdays 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Contact Pat O'Rourke - 053 9145773. Flutterby's Theatre - Mondays 3.20 p.m. to 4.20 p.m. Contact Natasha/Nikki - 089 4601092 Women's Indoor Soccer - Tuesdays 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. Contact Annemarie Kavanagh - 086 1700962 Dance Fit Classes - Tuesdays 7.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. Ongoing weekly classes, beginners and all levels welcome. Or just come along. Contact Amanda Burke - 087 9713339 Zumba - Wednesdays 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Contact Jaymee Duggan - 086 3367386 Pilates - Thursdays 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Contact Elaine Dowling - 086 8431723 We at Murrintown Community Centre are in urgent need of volunteers for bingo on Monday Nights from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. (once every four to six weeks). Should you have some free time on a Monday evening and are willing to volunteer please contact the community centre at 053 9139328. Murrintown Community Centre also has facilities for Squash, Badminton, Soccer, Volleyball and Basketball. The centre is also available for hire for children's birthday parties. Please call the centre for details. For more information contact Murrintown Community Centre - 053 9139328 murrintowncommunitycentre@gmail.com. split-the-pot  Last week's winner was Anne Sinnott winning €706, Anne bought her lucky ticket in Traynor's Hardware Store.  Draw takes place every Monday night at Murrintown Bingo. Remember you must be in to win. Piercestown ARA Club news Shopping Trip to Cork on Tuesday, November 28. €45 including coach and evening meal in Dooleys Hotel Waterford. Depart 8 a.m. Please contact Ann at 087 6677411 to book your place.If you are already booked, please come to the St Martin's Centre any Tuesday on or before November 14 to pay the €45 for this trip, receipt issued. few seats left. Organist needed Organist needed for St Martin's Church, anyone willing to play the organ for Piercestown Church Choir please contact Fr O'Reilly or any choir member. notes  Forward your notices to peadar.dempsey57@gmail.com by Thursday evenings. FUNDRAISER Please note fundraising is under way at the moment for the senior citizens' christmas party. All donations and spot prizes for raffle to John Price, your support is greatly appreciated thank you. BALLYCOGLEY PLAYERS Present 'a night of comedy in saint martins community center. Friday, November 10, at 8 p.m. admission €10 on the door Oulart Recent Birth Congratulations to Emmet and Vanessa Rice (Oulart and Dublin) on the birth of their second son, in Holles St Hospital, on Thursday, November 2. Baby Joseph weighed 7lbs 13oz and is brother to Frank. Congratulations also to proud and happy grand-parents Pauline and Gerry Rice, Kilnamanagh, Oulart and to Joan and Eugene Swaine, Blackrock. split-the-pot The latest winner of Scoil Mochua's split-the-pot was Mia Doyle, who won €137. The next draw will be held on Monday, November 13. Entry envelopes are available from local businesses. Oulart Scout Group The local Scout group has been very busy since returning from the summer break. The Cubs and Beavers had a very exciting 'night hike' to the new Mise Éire Monument and they enjoyed a fascinating talk by local historian, Brian Ó Cléirigh. Beavers also took part in an Emergency Services information day in Piercestown and they learned all about the roles played by different emergency services in Co. Wexford. Cubs and Scouts tried their hands at some backwoods cooking by the campfire. Our new Scouts have been learning how to build structures in Pioneering and you may have noticed the fantastic work they have done cleaning and planting in the car park, opposite the school. camogie club In conjunction with the club sponsor Corrigan's Spar and Family Butchers and Super Chips, well - known chef and food writer, Edward Hayden will give a cookery demonstration in the Riverside Hotel, Enniscorthy at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, November 28. Alongside Edward's cooking delights, there will be a variety of stalls showcasing their products. It promises to be a great night's entertainment. Tickets cost €15 each or two for €25 and will be available from camogie club members and the club committee. Scór na nÓg The semi-final of Scór na nÓg (under-17 talent competition) will be held in Inch Hall on Saturday, November 18.  The Scór na nÓg table quiz will be held on November 9 in Piercestown.  Contact Breda Jacob if you are interested in taking part in any Scór event. under-16 hurling Oulart-The Ballagh juvenile hurlers reached the Shield Final of the Gorey Guardian under-16 Roinn one shield. Having played a draw with Ballynastragh Gaels (four goals. Three points to two goals. Nine points)  On October 24 hey went into the replay on 30th October with renewed hope. Unfortunately, they lost to a stronger outfit (2-6 to 2-12), much to their own disappointment as well as that of their supporters and management team. Well done to all connected with the team.  The experience gained in this year's campaign will stand to them in future years. Coaching Oulart-The Ballagh Coiste na nÓg and the camogie club are delighted to announce that renowned coach, Paudie Butler, will deliver a coaching presentation and workshop in Oulart on November 24 and 25. Paudie, who is a former National Director of Hurling and master tutor with the GAA, is well known for his abilities to inspire players of all levels to improve their skills and how they play the game and to inspire and tutor coaches to work effectively with their teams. On Friday, November 24, parents and mentors/coaches of all underage groups (under-sixes to under-18s) are invited to attend the coaching presentation in Oulart Community Centre at 7.30 p.m. This is a great opportunity and everyone is encouraged to come along. Refreshments will be served afterwards. On Saturday, November 25, Paudie will host a two-hour coaching workshop for all underage mentors/coaches from 10 a.m. to midday.  A number of players from the under-10 to under-18 age groups will also be asked to take part in the workshop to assist with the demonstration of coaching techniques. Service of Remembrance Wexford Hospital is holding its seventh service of remembrance at Clonard Church on Friday, November 10, at 7.30 p.m. This Service is intended for families and friends of those who died at Wexford General Hospital over the past year or those who have a strong connection with the hospital. It is also open to anyone who wishes to attend. Tea and coffee will be served afterwards. The Ballagh Cookery Demonstration In conjunction with the camogie club sponsor, Corrigan's Spar and Family Butchers and Super Chips, the well - known chef and food writer Edward Hayden will give a cookery demonstration in the Riverside Hotel, Enniscorthy at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, November 28.  Alongside Edward's cooking delights, there will be a variety of stallholders showcasing their products.  It promises to be a great night's entertainment. Tickets will cost €15 each or two for €25 and will be available from camogie club members and the club committee. Scór na nÓg Teams from the Enniscorthy and Gorey districts will compete in the semi-final of Scór na nÓg (the GAA talent competition) for boys and girls under 17 years, in Inch Hall on Saturday, November 18. The competitions will begin at 7.30 p.m., following registration at 7 p.m.  There are eight events in Scór, namely Figure Dancing, set dancing, Solo Singing, Ballad Group, Recitation, Instrumental Music, Stage Presentation and, on a separate night, the table quiz in St Martin's GAA on Thursday, November 9.  Anyone interested in taking part is asked to contact Breda Jacob at 087 1686978. Curate's Residence The new tenants who have moved into the priest's house in the Ballagh are sent every good wish as they take up residence in their new abode.  While access to the Old Cemetery is assured, people are asked to respect the privacy of the family. Weekend Masses in the parish Saturday 6.30 p.m. in the Ballagh and 7.30 p.m. in Oulart. Sunday  10 a.m. in Oulart and 11 a.m. in the Ballagh. Mission Boolavogue Parish Mission, conducted by Fr Derek Meskell CSsR will be held in St Cormac's Church from Saturday, November 4, till Friday, November 10. You and your family are invited to attend and all are assured of a warm welcome. under-16 hurling Oulart-The Ballagh juvenile hurlers reached the Shield Final of the Gorey Guardian under-16 Roinn one shield. Having played a draw with Ballynastragh Gaels (four gls. Three points to two gls. Nine points) On October 24 they went into the replay on 3oth October with renewed hope. Unfortunately, they lost to a stronger outfit (2-6 to 2-12), much to their own disappointment as well as that of their supporters and management team.  Well done to all connected with the team. The experience gained in this year's campaign will stand to them in future years. Coaching Oulart-The Ballagh Coiste na nÓg and the camogie club are delighted to announce that renowned coach, Paudie Butler, will deliver a coaching presentation and workshop in Oulart on November 24 and 25.  Paudie, who is a former National Director of Hurling and master tutor with the GAA, is well known for his abilities to inspire players of all levels to improve their skills and how they play the game and to inspire and tutor coaches to work effectively with their teams. On Friday, November 24, parents and mentors/coaches of all underage groups (under-sixes to under-18s) are invited to attend the coaching presentation in Oulart Community Centre at 7.30 p.m.  This is a great opportunity and everyone is encouraged to come along. Refreshments will be served afterwards. On Saturday, November 25,  Paudie will host a two-hour coaching workshop for all underage mentors/coaches from 10 a.m. to midday. A number of players from the under-10 to under-18 age groups will also be asked to take part in the workshop to assist with the demonstration of coaching techniques. Kilmore Christmas lunch Christmas is approaching so the section is organising its Christmas Lunch. This year we are going to the new Coast Hotel in Kilmore Quay on the Wednesday, November 22. Food music and craic are the order of the day. No bowls There will be no bowls in the Stella Maris this week, however the usual Ten-Pin Bowling will take place on Mondays in Leisuremax at 10.30 a.m.  Wedding Bells  Congratulations to Philip Cousins Groveside Kilmore and Sarah Pierce from Barntown, who got married recently.  Philip is son of Mary and Seanie. We wish this couple many happy years of married life to gether. Scope meeting Kilmore Scope will be holding a meeting in the AOH hall on Thursday, November 9, at 7.30 p.m.  Meeting business will be reports on repairs and re-decorating of the hall which has almost been complete. We will also discuss funding issues and plans for the immediate future for the hall.  A good attendance is requested for this important meeting. Bus to Michael English This is a final call for anybody wishing to avail of the bus to the Michael English/Brendan Shine concert on Thursday, November 30, in Whites Hotel to book immediately as seats are very limited.  Kilmore ARA is putting on the bus and seats are available to non-members, but please book immediately to 087 2901251. Glynn-Barntown SINGING PUBS  Congratulations to Mary Jo's, Larkin's Cross in the recent singing pubs having scooped three big wins in the competition. Stephen Cullen was crowned best male singer, Mark Mono got the special Adjudicator's award and Stephen also received the Guinness Golden Harp award. Well done, guys.  A huge thank you to our other participants, Sarah, Billy and Damien. And of course to our marvellous audience, who for us, are always winners. TABLE QUIZ A Community Games fundraising table quiz will take place in Declan's Sycamore House, on Friday, November 10. The event kicks off at 9 p.m. so round up your buddies and save the date in your diary. A table of four costs €20. See you there. HOSPICE COFFEE MORNING  A coffee morning will take place on Thursday, November 16, from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. at Boggan's Shop (Tea Room) Newtown Road. All are invited to attend. SPLIT THE POT Barntown Parish split-the-pot is up and running. Watch out for the boxes on shop counters at the following locations; C & D Providers, O'Brien's Londis Larkin's Cross, Saucy Butcher Clonard, Killeens Service Station, Barntown parish office, Mary Jo's and the Sailing Cot. Only €2 to enter.  The pot is growing every week. Congratulations to last week's winner Frank Stafford, who took away €80. YOUTH CHOIR Barntown Parish Youth Choir will held their first rehearsal on Thursday, October 26, at 6.50 p.m. in Barntown Church. The choir is open to all fourth Class Primary to sixth Year Secondary School pupils. BPYC endeavours to enrich, inspire, motivate and engage all the musical talent in the parish. Gratitude to all who turned up for the registration evening, and for those of you still interested in signing up, you are not too late, please contact Vocal Coach, Ann Cleary (née Stamp) at 087 9004554 to find out more information. PONGO Pongo will take place in the Kitchen in Glynn Hall on the first Tuesday of every month at 8 p.m. Come along and enjoy the fun.  The annual parish Christmas Bazaar will take place on Sunday, December 17, after 10 a.m. Mass - save the date in your diary. MUSIC AT THE MANOR  Barntown's Mayor, Mr Tom Dempsey presents Music at the Manor in aid of Wexford Hospice Homecare and Barntown Parish Music, Live Bands, Finger Food, DJs, Prizes and much more. Slaney Manor, Barntown on November 17, 8 p.m. till late. Tickets are €20 and can be purchased at the parish office 053 9120853. CAMOGIE Well done to our minor camogie team who had a good win over Bunclody in championship in Killurin last Sunday. Final score 3-11 to 2-2. COISTE NA NÓG GAA FUNDAMENTALS REMINDER GAA fundamentals started Sunday, November 5, for girls and boys at the hurling wall in Killurin. Cost: €2 per session: 10.11 a.m.: Second, third and fourth Class 11.midday: Fifth and sixth Class Tuesdays:Junior Senior and first classes Barntown Hall 6.15 p.m. to 7.15 p.m. Wednesdays:Junior Senior and first classes Glynn Hall 6.15 p.m. to 7.15 p.m.  Well structured programme so your child gets the active, healthy fundamentals for life. Parents are encouraged to stay and observe, you may pick up some fundamentals. MENTORS The selection process has begun for Coiste na nÓg team managers and selectors for 2018. If you are interested please contact Willie 087 2933815 or Ruairí 087 4185950 by November 8. under-21 FOOTBALL Wishing our under-21 footballers every success as they begin their campaign v Ballyhogue Saturday, November 4. Result not known at time of print. AGM Glynn-Barntown  GAA Senior Club AGM will take place on Friday, November 24. Formal notifications via email and post are in the process of being issued.  Nominations and/or motions to secretary as soon as possible but no later than November 3. Contact Danny 086 1089553 for further information. CLUB GEAR SHOP The club Gear Shop will be open Wednesday, November 8, from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Skinny track bottoms, socks, shorts, half zips, jerseys, skorts and gear bags in stock. CLUB LOTTO RESULTS  Glynn-Barntown GAA lotto Wednesday, November 1 - Numbers drawn were 1, 2, 3 and 17. No jackpot winner. One match-three winner Mark Donovan. Next draw in Marty's on Wednesday, November 15. Jackpot now €6,800. New club lotto 2017/18 We are drawing to the end of the 2016/17 lotto year... make sure you have purchased your ticket for 2017/18. Help keep our fantastic facilities, our 50 plus teams and our 500 members all in top order while also being in with the chance of snaring the €10,000 jackpot. Contact John at 087 2807679 for ticket information and payment options. Help share the responsibility. GET TOGETHER  Glynn-Barntown GAA, Coiste na nÓg, camogie and Ladies' Football, Tennis, All Players, volunteers and Parents Day Saturday, November 11, in the club house - all welcome. Kick off live 5.30 p.m. Ireland v South Africa (Rugby) then 7.45 p.m. Ireland v Denmark (Soccer) with special promotions all night long and finger food for all. LADIES FOOTBALL Glynn-Barntown Ladies' Football AGM is coming up soon and we are actively searching for new committee members to join us for the 2018 season. Just message our Facebook page, speak to any coach or committee member or contact glynnbarntownladiesfootball@gmail.com if you would like to help out. It's great fun and a great way to get to know fellow Glynn-Barntown members. You don't need to be a ladies' football parent to join.  Please spread the word. DISTRICT NOTES CONTACT DETAILS Please be advised of the deadline for District Notes. The People Office deadline is 2 p.m. on the Friday before publication. Notices for inclusion for the Glynn-Barntown area, should be emailed (before midday) to hillaryobrien@eircom.net or alternatively, phone or text Hillary at 087 2028065. Taghmon-Camross Passion Play 2018  There will be an open meeting in Camross Hall on Wednesday, November 15. 8 p.m. for all people interested in being involved in Passion Play 2018. The committee invites anyone interested in partaking in the choir, performing in the Play itself, helping with Sets, Costumes, Make Up, Front of house, Back stage and helping with tea. All will be very welcome. December Dance  The December Dance will be held in Camross Ballroom on Friday, December 1. with proceeds in aid of Caroreigh parish funds. Music by the ever popular Brendan and Patricia Lee, dancing 10 p.m. till 12mn, Adm. €8 including the tea and Door Prizes. Come along to our Christmas dance, a wonderful night guaranteed plus supporting Caroreigh parish funds. Breakfast morning Taghmon-Camross GAA Club are holding our annual breakfast morning on Sunday, November 12, from 9.30 a.m. till 1.30 p.m. in the GAA clubhouse. Your support would be much appreciated. Taghmon ICA. The October meeting took place recently. The meeting started with a vote of sympathy with the Morrissey family on their recent bereavement.  Fitness classes took place for the month of October. It is hoped to resume these in the near future. Seven members attended the recent Convenor meeting in Bridgetown. Some suggestions were made for the guild Christmas dinner and will be discussed at the November meeting.  Please bring your Shoeboxes for team hope to the next meeting. The competition is for the nicest pair of ladies slippers. The next federation meeting takes place on Monday, November 27. The next meeting takes place on Wednesday, November 15. Rathangan-Cleariestown notes If you have any news or information that you would like to submit in the weekly notes you can contact Rathangan Parish Hall at 051 563039 between 9.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. or leave a message. Also you can email your notice to rathanganhall@gmail.com. At the latest all notes must be received by 10 'o clock Friday Morning. Community lotto  There was no winner of last week's jackpot of €6,000. No match-three winner, next draw match-three numbers to win or share 400€. The next lotto draw will be held on Tuesday, October 31, and the jackpot now stands at €6,200. Bingo  Rathangan parish council wish to thank everyone who supported our recent bingo and we look forward to your continued support by donation or attendance on the day at our next bingo on November 12. Thank you. Climate Change  We all know how climate change affects our lives. The recent Hurricane Ophelia is a good example. In Rathangan School we are doing our bit to raise awareness of and reduce climate change. We are recycling, using less water and turning the lights off when we are not using them. Also this year we are going for our fourth Green School Flag which is 'TRAVEL'. This ties in well with climate change as it requires us to try walk, cycle or carpool where possible instead of using the cars. We ask that all the families in our community do their bit for climate change. Thank you from all at St Anne's NS. Rose of Rathangan  Are you up for a laugh? come support our 'Rose of Rathangan' fundraiser on November 25 in Rathangan Bar. Tickets are only €5 or €10 on the door. Check out Facebook to find out more about this fun filled evening and see local lads as you never seen them before vying for the crown.  Fastnet rovers fc Our season is now under way and we have introduced a new Academy (under-six and under-seven) on Sunday morning and under-eights on Saturday. Please contact the club or check our Fastnet Rovers AFC page on Facebook for more details. St Anne's Shop  Christmas is Looming. St Anne's Shop for those Surprise Christmas Presents - Shorts, Jerseys, Training Tops, Hoddies, Polo Shirts, Skirts, Socks, Rain Jackets and Beanie Hats. St Anne's Skinny Tracksuit Pants - Ages 5-6, 7-8, 9-10, 11-12, 13-14 €35 - Age15-16, Small, Medium Large etc €40 - Call or text Ann 087 2076869 or email stannesshop@gmail.com. Little Breeches  Rathangan's Little Breeches re-opened on Tuesday, September 5. It offers a warm and welcoming environment where children can explore, play and learn in our outdoor and indoor environments. Limited places are still available for this term and we are now taking bookings for the Spring and summer terms. Contact Sinéad at 087 9852960 or sineadwhite119@gmail.com for more information or to book your place. Parent/Toddler Group  Parent and Toddler Group in Rathangan Hall, Tuesday mornings from 10.30 - midday Babies to pre-school age. Come along and enjoy a coffee and a chat. Breakfast morning  Rathangan Variety Group a holding breakfast morning on Sunday, November 12, from 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. in the Rathangan Bar. The Full Irish Breakfast just five €. Proceed towards our 2018 Production of Sister Act.  Rathangan Housing  The homes are not yet fully let so we are still open for inquiries and interest from anyone considering a move. Further information from members of the committee or at the parish hall or call Willie at 086 8106672. Yoga Classes  Yoga class in Rathangan Hall will resume on Wednesdays at 7 p.m. Suitable for beginners and improvers. €10 per class or five classes for €40. Contact Julie at 087 1250720 for details. Please bring a mat. Fastnet Monthly Mega Money Draw: Our Monthly Mega Money winner was Tommy Walsh winning €425 in our October draw. Envelopes are now available for our next draw from all players and all leading local retailers. Your support is appreciated. Craft and Design Centre  New opening times at the Forge Craft and Design Centre Baldwinstown: Thursday and Friday 9.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday and Sunday 9.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Pop in for coffee and cake. Community Drama Following on from public meeting in Tomhaggard Social centre it was agreed that the workshops will take place on Thursdays 7.30-9 starting November 9. Anyone interested in any area of drama, acting, directing, backstage are welcome to attend. The course is being funded by Creative Ireland. Ballymurn Church news Mass Times. Tuesday 7.30 p.m. Thursday 9.30 a.m. Saturday 9.30 a.m. and 8.15 p.m. and Sunday 10 a.m. Dates for your Diary - Ballymurn Parish Gathering will take place on Sunday, December 3, in Ballymurn Hall. Youth Club  Ballymurn Youth Club every Friday night in the hall from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Don't forget Disco November 10. Bingo  Bingo every Monday night in the Anvil Ballymurn at 9 p.m. GAA News  Congratulations to our intermediate hurlers who beat Monageer in the Co semi-final replay in extra time in Wexford Park. They now play St Anne's in Wexford Park next Saturday in the county final. Please come out and support the team. Hard luck to our junior hurlers who lost out to Adamstown last weekend in the replay of the county final which also went to extra time. Club Gear Anyone interested in club gear or half zips for Christmas etc, contact John Cummins for any orders in the next two weeks. Penny Bank  Penny bank collections every Saturday and Sunday in the hall after Masses. Deepest Sympathy  Sincere sympathy of the community is extended to the Bishop family on the tragic deaths of Martina's brother Syl and sister Ann. May they rest in peace. Also to the Prendergast family on the death of Billy Osborne Carnew and to Nick and Margaret Byrne and family on the death of Nick's mother Patrica Byrne Kilmore RIP  Knitters Knatters Ballymurn Knitters would like to invite you to a Christmas craft demonstration by Anne Doran on Wednesday, November 15, in the club room of Ballymurn hall at 11 o'clock. Everyone welcome. For more information please contact 087 274027. Birthday  Congratulations Congratulations to Breda Redmond Ballylucas, who celebrated a very special this week. Pioneer News  The Pioneer social dinner is on November 24 in the Riverside Park Hotel, This will be preceded by Mass for deceased members at 6.15 in the same venue. For more information or tickets contact 053 9138190. Glenbrien GAA lotto Lotto held November 1, numbers were 1, 9, 14 and 19 bonus 16. Lucky-dip winners: Anna Mai Conroy, Eamonn Mernagh, Carol Heffernan, marie Rowley, Joan Murphy, Dan Doran, Kevin Murphy, Brian Doyle. Next draw November 15 in Slaney Inn tickets available locally. Parish Draw October winners in Glenbrien Parish draw. First prize, Seán and Olive McDonald. €40 each, Mikie and Aileen Nolan, Tommy and Ita Sludds, Lar Lambert, and Mary Furlong. Dancing The next date for social dancing in Oylegate Community Centre is Sunday, November 12. Music on the night is by the ever popular Moynihan Brothers from Ferns. Dancing is from 9.30 p.m. and admission is €8. Come along for a great night of music, dance and the usual 'cup of tea. Wexford Male Voice Choir  The concert will take place in the church on Friday, November 24. Members of the Glenbrien Parish Group will be going door to door in the next two weeks selling tickets for th night. The children from the Holy Family Primary school will also be taking part in the concert. A great evening of entertainment is guaranteed on the night. Shoe box Collecttion. The Shoe box collection for the homeless people of Co Wexford If you wish to make up a shoe box for the Appeal items can include Toiletries, Socks Gloves, Hats Scarves Travel Mug, Thermal itemstorch Sweets Rain poncho and a Christmas card. Please label the Box for adult Male or Female Collection will take place on Saturday, December 2, in the Old School centre from 10 to 12 for more information please contact Fiona at 087 7076496. thank you. Glenbrien Text Alert A general meeting of Glenbrien Text Alert will be held in the Old School Centre on Tuesday, November 7, at 8 p.m. Please attend as important issues will be discussed such as the purchase of a defibrillator, security within the parish, possibly running a first aid training course and the Garda involvement in the text alert scheme.  A divisional meeting of the text alert groups is being held in November so if you would like any item to be raised then please attend this general meeting. gaa club agm GAA club will hold our AGM for adult and underage sections on Sunday, November 19, at 5.30 p.m. in the community centre, your attendance would be much appreciated. parents' association  On Friday morning the staff and Pupils set off on their annual Witch walk around Glenbrien Village stoppng atscare stations along the way to spook and entertain the community that came along to join them the parents set up the stations with the children having sponsorship cards to raise funds for activities in the coming months. It was back then to the school for some trick s and treats. A huge thank you to all the parents and guardians who provided and made props for the stations along with those that donated and made cakes and buns and those who helped with the games and refreshments, and to all those from the community who came out to show their support and were brave eneough to walk with us. Clonard Clonard lotto results. Results for Wednesday, November 1. This week's winning numbers 13 - 20 - 22 - 24. No jackpot winner. Nine match-three winners receive €72 each: Seán and Margaret Farrell; Elizabeth Kavanagh; David Carley; John Kehoe; Catherine Cullen; Ian Thomas; Margaret Whitty; Darragh McLaughlin and Delores Black. Jackpot for Wednesday, November 8, €14,400. Tickets are €1.50 at the parish office or any promotor.  Lotto draw takes place every Wednesday night at Clonard Bingo at 8.30 p.m. If you wish to join or be a promoter please call to the parish office to have it arranged.  Results available on clonardparish.ie or Facebook church news Acorn Shop: Opening Hours Monday to Friday 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Wednesday 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Christmas Mass Bouquets and Novena Cards available. Vouchers available for Bingo Books, Christmas presents. Confessions In Clonard: Every Saturday from five to 5.45 p.m. Clonard Parish Radio" All Church services are broadcast on 92.9 FM Please inform people who are sick or housebound so that they can join us over the airwaves. Masses: Saturday Vigil Mass 6 p.m. Sunday 9 a.m., 10 a.m., and 11.30 a.m. Weekdays: 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. Wexford and Clonard Parishes  Invite you to Taize Prayer in Clonard Day Chapel November 12 and December 10 at 7 p.m. Taize is a form of mediation through music, readings and silence. Please join us for our opening night.  Christmas Fair: The date of the Christmas Fair Volunteer meeting has been changed to November 6 at 7.30 p.m. in the Shamrock Room, instead of October 30. Apologies for any inconvenience. Pro Life Trust: Would like to thank all who contributed so generously to their recent church gate collection. A special thanks to all the collectors. November Pious List: Please remember to return your November Pious List of the dead, so that all your departed loved ones will be remembered at our Masses during November. Spare lists can be found in all porches of the church. svp bric a brac The Saint Vincent de Paul Society will hold a Furniture and bric-a-brac sale in St Michael's Hall, Thomas Street on Friday, November 10, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. All proceeds in aid of the society. Log-On-Learning. Log-on-Learning is a one to one six-week course for members of the public who could benefit from some help using an electronic device such as a smartphone, a tablet or a laptop. Participants are paired off with a Transition Year student who will help them with any aspect of their device.  Participants are encouraged to bring their devices with them, though we do have iPad and desktop computers if desired. Spaces are on a first come first served basis, so please get your name to Betty at 053 9142783.  Dates: Tuesday, November 7, till Tuesday, December 12. Time: 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Venue: Lunch room (while in old school). Cost: Free. school enrolment Junior Infant Enrolment in Scoil Mhuire, Coolcotts September 2018. Parents and Guardians, who wish to make an application to enrol their child in Junior Infants in Scoil Mhuire for September 2018 are asked to submit an Application to Enrol Form on or before Friday, November 10. The form is available on the school's website coolcotts.com (enrolment section on homepage) or you can pick up a copy of the form at the school. If you know of a parent or Guardian in the community who may have a child for enrolment, please pass on this message. Wexara News Some upcoming dates for your diaries. Trip to Rathwood on Wednesday, November 15. Bus pick - up at Clonard at 10.30 a.m. and leaving Rathwood at 4 p.m. Our Christmas party is in the Talbot Hotel on Wednesday, December 20, at 1 p.m. Our next general meeting is Wednesday, November 29, at 2.30 p.m. in Clonard. Wexara Phone number is 087 6094587. Clonard GAA  Congratulations to Ciara and Dean on winning €378 in this week's split-the-pot draw seller this week was Mary Kavanagh. Next week's envelopes are on sale now, thanks to all for selling and supporting us weekly. Over the Water Co-op agm  Castlebridge Community Development Co-op will hold their annual general meeting on Monday, November 13, at 8 p.m. in the Reading Rooms. All are most welcome. Curracloe AFC news Curracloe United AFC had no winner of their jackpot and three match-three winners in their weekly lotto draw on Sunday, October 29. The numbers drawn were 8, 17, 19 and 22. The match-three winners who each received €100 were John Fielding, c/o C & C Builders, Screen; Duggie, c/o An Post and Brid Curran, Ballyvaloo. The club will host their annual table quiz on Friday, November 10, in Hotel Curracloe commencing at 9 p.m. Entry fee of €20 for a team of four members. There will be a raffle on the night and lots of s. Christmas Fair A reminder that a Christmas Fair will be held in Castlebridge hall on Saturday, November 26, All proceeds to the Tracie Lawlor Trust for Cystic Fibrosis. Contact 087 3341344 for further details. Ballymore-Mayglass St Fintan's To the Fore Some 40 years ago a Wexford district team became the first aqnd only district team to be crowned senior football champions. The final was played in Belfield versus Bunclody and the panel of players included 10 from the St Fintan's club. If anyone out there can supply any type of photograph from that time the club would very much appreciate it. Ballycogley Hall Hi energy Dancefit classes held every Monday and Wednesday at 7.30 p.m. Plus. Forever Active 50+.every Monday in the hall@11.30. Call Amanda Burke. Forever Fit Wexford 087 9713339. Or just come along. Ongoing weekly classes. Beginners and all levels welcome alwaysandforeverfit.com. lotto The St Fintan's GAA lotto now stands at €6,200 and tickets can be purchased from local shops and the club grounds on Tuesday evenings from 8 p.m. and from club members at a cost of €1.50. There is also a match-three prize of €200 up for grabs each week and this prize was not won last week and the pot will now be €400 for the coming draw. Last week's numbers were 3, 18, 31 and 34. Many thanks for your continued support. Nights Of Comedy A little reminder. The Ballycogley Players will perform their 'Night of Comedy' on Friday, November 10, in St Martin's GAA Complex, Piercestown and on Sunday, November 12, in Carrig-on-Bannow Hall with an 8 p.m. start time on both nights. Admission €10.  Looking forward to seeing you all for a great night of laughter and entertainment. Tomhaggard social centre Mon 10-1 Women's Shed, 6-7.30 Yoga, 7.30-9 Ventures. Tuesday 7-9 Art, Wed, 10-12, Women's drama 7-8.30 Cubs and Scouts, Thursday 10-1 Mosaic Class, Fri 10-12 Women's drama, Sat 10-11.30 Beavers. Drama Mon Thur Fri. New Community Theatre starting soon. Following the installation of the new Kitchen in Tomhaggard social centre the existing stainless steel one is for sale. For Enquiries and dimensions contact Angela 087 2840272. Knitting and Stitching Show Anyone interested in going to the Show? There are a few spaces available on a bus going on November 11. They will be stopping on the way home for a meal. Contact Trish 087 9881532 for details and to book a place. Scouts Meetings resume this week. Co Orienteering on November 19 for all sections. Community Drama Following on from public meeting in Tomhaggard Social centre it was agreed that the workshops will take place on Thursdays 7.30-9 starting November 9. Anyone interested in any area of drama, acting, directing, backstage are welcome to attend. The course is being funded by Creative Ireland. St Fintan's Fundraiser Don't be disappointment, get your tickets for their November 10 show in Danby Lodge Hotel before they are all gone. Tickets are limited for this show due to both venue capacity and to ensure the comfort of all those who will be attending. Tickets €15 available in hotel reception NOW or through eventbrite.ie. When they are gone, they are gone. You have been warned... All Blacks AFC The under-14s played a very competitive 2: two draw away to Wexford Albion in less than ideal conditions.It was a game of two halves with the wind a major factor. The first goal was created from great work by Matthew Lewis on the wing who picked out Phil Tierney, who took the ball in his stride and lobbed the home keeper for a superb finish. The second was a excellent strike from Tadgh Deegan from outside the box.  Most of the second half chances fell to Albion from which they found the net on two occasions to level the game. Just on full time James Wright in goal made a fantastic save from a Albion free kick to earn the Blacks a deserved draw. Get Well Soon Get well soon wishes are sent by the family and friends of 19YR old Mayglass man and St Anne's talented gaelic player Roy Nunn. Roy was knocked down when struck by a car in Dublin and was rushed to the Mater hospital in a critical condition where he gained consciousness after treatment. We wish Roy a speedy recovery. Birthday Greetings Ballycogley Players drama group member Johnny Doyle of Mulrankin was joined by a gathering of family and friends in Bridies bar Bridgetown during the recent past to celebrate a special birthday. Johnny is wished avery happy birthday from his fellow group members. Special Awards Three members of the same family were pleasantly surprised when they attended the AGM of Wexford scout county.  Nick, Breda and Laura Hayes received their awards for their contribution to scouting in the county. Laura received a silver meritorious award, her woodbeads and 15-year service award while Nick and Breda received a Gold meritorious award each and if any family was to be rewarded for their hard work and dedication to scouting it surely must be the Hayes family. Congratulations to all three. Table quiz There will be a fundraising table quiz held in the Halfway House Ballycogley on Thursday, November 16, at 8.30 p.m. Table of four is €20 and all proceeds will go the Ballycogley hall development fund. Please come along and show your support and give the brain cells a workout. Hunt Canter The Killinick Harriers recently held a Hunt Canter in Ballycogley and the surrounding area. This proved a very successful day with a great turnout. The weather was on our side, we even managed to get in before Ophelia reared her head.  We would like to thank the landowers who generously allowed the horses cross their land. All proceeds have been very kindly donated to the Ballycogley hall development fund. Crossabeg Text Alert news For all who ordered and signed up for Fire Alarms at the last meeting of Crossabeg Text Alert, please call to Kyle Forge to collect same on Saturday, November 18, between midday and 1 p.m. There will be a fire safety talk by Ray Murphy at midday. Parish Concert A parish Variety Concert will be held in Ferrycarrig hotel this Thursday, November 9, commencing at 8 p.m. Tickets are €10 for adults with children being admitted for free and are available from the Parish Finance committee and at the door on the night of the concert. All proceeds are in aid of church funds. Juvenile Athletics. Now that the dark evenings have set in, training for the juvenile members of St Killian's AC has relocated to Crossabeg national school hall this week. Please note the change of times. Training every Monday evening (only) from 6.30-7.30 p.m for boys and girls aged seven years and up to and including third class pupils. Training every Monday and Thursday evening from 7.30-8.30 p.m for boys and girls from fourth classes and upwards. Representing Ireland St Killian's juvenile athlete Jack Forde will represent the CBS Wexford, his club and country when he will be in action in Glasgow on Friday, November 10, Jack competed in the national schools Combines in Athlone on October 28 where he achieved PBS in the 60m Hurdles (9.35sec) and the 800m (2.19.77). He finished in fifth place overall which means he will be representing Ireland in Glasgow. What a marvellous achievement for such a young athlete and his local club wishes him the very best of luck. We hope you thoroughly enjoy the experience, Jack. Senior Athletics Well done to the senior members of St Killian's AC who competed in the Dublin City Marathon on Sunday, October 29. Pádraig Moriarty had been putting in serious preparation for the race and had some very strong performances in recent competitions so it was great to see this coming together for him and he finished in a super time of two hours 52 minutes which placed him fifth overall in his category. Well done, Pádraig.  Gerry Moran has been seen pounding the roads over the last couple of months and did himself and his club proud finishing in a time of four hours 43 minutes.  There was no fear for Jay Kehoe, who took up the challenge and really enjoyed the occasion, cruising home in a cracking time of three hours and 44 minutes. Senior citizens party. The annual Christmas party for the senior citizens of the parish will be held in Ferrycarrig hotel on Sunday, December 9.Members of the organising committee will be calling on all householders in the coming weeks for their generous support for the event. Invitations will also be issued shortly to our senior citizens. Coffee morning. A reminder that if you wish to pre-order Christmas cakes, puddings, tarts etc from Annis Kehoe, before she holds her annual coffee morning on Saturday, December 9, please call her at 087 2426146. The event will be held at Kyle Forge from 10 a.m. till 2 p.m. Refreshments will be served and there will also be a raffle with many great prizes on hand. There will also be many mouth watering goodies on offer, tarts, puds, cakes, bracks, jams, chutneys, vegetables, potatoes etc. Rosslare Harbour Sympathiesu  We extend our deepest sympathy to the following people who have had bereavements recently. Anne Grant and family, Ros Mor, Rosslare Harbour, on the sad and untimely death of her sister Carmel McFadden, Newtowncunningham, Co Donegal, also her brother Tony McFadden who passed away recently. To Eileen Comerford and Margaret Moore, Kilrane, on the sad passing of their mother Maura O'Neill, Rochestown, Duncormick, whose death occurred on October May 16 they rest in peace. Comedy with the Players A little reminder. The Ballycogley Players will perform their 'Night of Comedy' on Friday, November 10, in St Martin's GAA Complex, Piercestown and on Sunday, November 12, in Carrig-on-Bannow Hall with an 8 p.m. start time on both nights. Admission €10. Looking forward to seeing you all for a great night of laughter and entertainment. Christmas Craft Fair  KRH Tops Community Group will host a Christmas Craft Fair in Hotel Rosslare on Sunday, November 26, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Stalls will include Handmade Christmas Cards and Decorations, Wood Turning, Wood Crafts, Wall Decals and Dreamcatchers, Gift Jars, Christmas Lighting, Handmade Wine Racks, Reindeer Food and Christmas Eve Boxes, Glitter Jar Craft Lights, Jigsaws and Cuddly Toys, Lifeboat Souvenirs and Christmas Cards, Photography, Knitted Gifts, Original Art, Cross Stitch Kits, Delicious Home Baking, Preserves, Hot Chocolate and Cookies, Children's Decoration Workshop and lots more.  The ideal way to stock up on Christmas gifts and Stocking Fillers.. Mrs Claus and her helpers will be on hand to read stories round the fireside and the children will be able to make and take home decorations for your tree, while you browse.. There will be a special Christmas Bar Food Menu available on the day if you fancy a break from the cooking. Still a couple of spaces left if anyone is interested in putting in a stall. Contact Bernie 087 7051733. RNLI news  The Rosslare Harbour Branch of the RNLI wish to express their sincere thanks and gratitude to all who attended and supported our recent Fish Supper. A special word of thanks to Hotel Rosslare for their generosity and use of their facilities and to the following for their sponsorship, support, assistance and generosity towards the 'Fish Supper' and its success; Murphy's SuperValu, Atlantis Seafood (Mark and John), Steve Yarr, Saltees Fish, Kilmore Fish Company, Meyler's Fish Shop, Keelings, Lidl, Lloyds Pharmacy, Wexford Golf Club, Veronica and 'Sneezer' Walsh (Rosslare Crab), Eamonn Black, Micheál Ferguson, Frank McRory, Culleton's Bar and Restaurant, Kevin McCormack, Whitford House Hotel, Sofrimar, Joe Whelan (Saturnas), Stafford's Bakery, Brian and Louise O'Hagan, Trudie's Catering, John Tattan (Ballycotton) and Langton's House Hotel (Kilkenny). A wonderful turnout ensured that a great night was had by all and the following were the winners of the door prize and raffle prizes: Door Prize: Art Sheil, Langton's House Hotel Voucher: Brendan Walsh, Dinner Voucher - Hotel Rosslare: Jacqueline Kehoe, Hamper - Murphy's SuperValu: Graham Mullen, Hamper - Lloyds Pharmacy: Margaret Hartigan, Hamper - O'Hagan Cooling: Joe Monaghan, Voucher - Whitford House Hotel Leisure Centre: Doreen Taylor, Glass Candle Sticks: Trish Carroll, Perfume Set: Jack Higginbottom. A total of €2,080 was raised from the event, all of which are much needed funds towards our Lifeboat Station and our Crew. Once again a big 'thanks' to all. Upcoming Events: The following are upcoming events and dates for the diary, in which we would be grateful for your support. Sunday, November 26 - Sale of RNLI Christmas Cards, Christmas Stocking Fillers and general RNLI souvenirs (as part of the Craft Fair in Hotel Rosslare) Monday, December 4 - annual table quiz in the Railway Social Club. St Paul's AC  Leinster Juvenile Cross Country Championships took place last Sunday in Navan Co Meath. Great running from Rob Stirling to finish in 16th place overall and he was also part of the Wexford Team that were pipped for fourth place by one point. Day three of the Juevenile Cross Country Championships will take place in Adamstown on Sunday, November 12, at midday St Mary's GAA Weekly lotto Winning numbers 6, 13, 18 and 31. No jackpot winner.1 Match 3Winner, Caroline Ellard. Jackpot next week €11,750.  Six- and 12-month gym memberships available. Please contact John Byrne 087 2584723  The AGM takes place in St Mary's Complex Sunday, November 19, 3 p.m. Hope to see ye all there. Rosslare Strand Split-the-pot Congratulations to Gabby Mein, who picked up €171, in our weekly draw. Envelopes are available from Cushen's Tagoat, Nosh N Coffee, The Enterprise centre, The Lotus Restaurant, Turners Garage, Lollitots, Tides, The Bay, The Bay fish and chip, Centra, Cois Barry House, Kelly's Hotel Swimming Pool, The Pharmacy, The Hospital Shop, Seashells, The Enterprise Centre and our two new locations Wild and Native and Sami's takeaway and convenient store. The next draw will take place in the Bay on Friday, November 10. Can't be around, going away or even emigrating well you can still play using Multi Draw. Cois Barry House The Children's Halloween Party will take place on October 31 at 7.30 p.m. Come in fancy dress/costume. Music, Games and great fun. The Community House is now taking bookings for 2017 so if you want to hold a party or meeting etc, please contact David Clancy 087 7631605. Taekwondo is extending their classes on a Saturday morning: 10 a.m. to 11 a.m.: Adults, 11 a.m. midday: Advanced students, 1 p.m. 2 p.m.: Beginner students. AA Meetings are on every Sunday Evening at 8 p.m. Spinning Classes - Tuesday morning 9.45 a.m. and 6.30 p.m. that evening also Thursday 9.45 a.m. and 6.30 p.m. come along and join in we promise no pot holes. Bannow-Ballymitty Community Alert  A meeting and AGM of the local branch of the community alert group will be held in Ballymitty hall on Tuesday, November 21, at 8 p.m.  Dancing Dancing continues every Thursday night in Tír na nÓg with music this Thursday the ninth Delta Dawn, November 16 South Bound, Thursday the 23rd Richie Halpin, and Thursday the 30th Michael Ellard. Starts from 9.30 all welcome refreshments served. Christmas shoebox  It's that time again to get a shoebox and fill it with gifts to send out to those who don't get anything for Christmas. Forms available at the PO and these need to be ready for collection on November 9. Drop off to school, Bannow PO or Breda's Shop. Grantstown news Events in Grantstown Community Village. Tuesday 7th: Mass at 11.30/Exercise in the Morning and Pongo in the Afternoon. Wednesday 8th: Pongo/Arm Exercise in the Morning and Imagination Gym in the Afternoon. Thursday 9th: Pongo/Chair Exercise in the Morning and Cards/Music in the Afternoon. All Welcome to join us:) Don't forget you can find all of this information on Facebook. Home Baking Some tasty home baking available from our kitchen staff. Delicious Tea Brack's, Cheesecakes, and Apple tarts. To place an order please call our reception at 051 561016. Ballycogley Players Back by popular demand the Ballycogley Players will present three one-act plays in Carrig Community Centre Sunday, November 12, at 8 p.m.  For more information contact our reception at 051 561016. Meals on Wheels Would you benefit from a Hot Delicious and Nutritious Meal delivered to your door? Why not give us a call at 051 561016. GAA club notes Please note change of AGM: this important meeting has been changed to Thursday, November 16, at eight o'clock down in our complex. Please attend this last meeting of 2017 and see what 2018 will bring to our club. Lotto numbers were 6, 14, 23 and 29. Next jackpot will be €13,700. Liam Spratt was our MC for the third annual race night and fancy dress which took place on bank holiday Sunday night. Many many thanks to all who supported us on the night and who also bought and sponsored horses. Winners of the fancy dress were the Pam Sandwich. Thanks to everyone who helped in any way from the Barretts Team to the Naceys for feeding us, to the Marquee squad for the shelter, the tote personal for the finance and to all who turned up to support us. Until next year. Irish Dancing Classes Irish dancing classes in Carrig Community Centre every Monday afternoon. Girls and boys from age three years up welcome. 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. Junior and senior infants 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. all other ages Contact Alice at 087 9364255. Wexford People 
