sport gaa
{  
    February 08 2009 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/we-have-to-be-about-more-than-a-game-26512219.html }
What happens when you put the greatest hurling manager in the history of the game and the most successful Gaelic football manager of the last 20 years in a room together? Gaelic Games correspondent Damian Lawlor managed to get Kilkenny's Brian Cody and Tyrone's Mickey Harte to hook up in a Dublin hotel recently, and in their most revealing interviews ever, they gave a fascinating insight into the secrets of their success. DL: How long do you allow yourself to sit back and savour the latest success? Or do you ever really switch off? MH: Not really. You savour the moment, I savour it for a short time but there's always the business of looking to the future, wondering how you sustain the momentum. We haven't done that too well in the past few years, but Brian has done it again and again. So we have something to learn from him. In the off season you'd be busy catching up on other sides of life. There's a huge social commitment which comes with winning titles, going to clubs, schools and dinner dances but after that you're planning again. I don't mind. It's a privilege to be there. BC: Before a final, you're totally preoccupied but it's not always intense. In fact, it's a hugely enjoyable place to be. I look forward to the whole season and then head off on the team holiday after the championship. That does me. Do I take a break? Well, I take in the club scene which kicks off in a major way after September and I get caught up in that because James Stephens are in it. I get to see as many club games as I can. I don't see hurling as something you can switch off from. The pressure thing? That's over-rated. This is a great place to be. What's the biggest challenge in motivating a squad of winners year after year? BC: Actually, it's not a huge challenge at all. People constantly ask me how we could possibly have the same hunger as the likes of Waterford. Very easily -- we have. Success is a massive thing to taste, we like it and we want more of it. Every season has a lifespan and for the past few years we have reached the end. But we want that every year. It's all up for grabs again the next year; why would you not be hungry for it again? I don't find it difficult to motivate anyone and neither do the players. That's the way it will be. MH: Brian and his lads have a tradition of being there every year. For us, winning during the past few years was our first glorious era and we were in new territory. There were huge celebrations after our first All-Ireland win and it was easy to get lost in it all. In 2004, the death of Cormac McAnallen had a huge impact on why we were not able to retain the title at the time. Then in 2005, we got the title again but afterwards we were hit with an unreal amount of injuries which militated against us. They are factors in us not maintaining our momentum, but there are no such factors here this season, thank God. So let's test to see what our mettle is really like this year. That's my challenge. Although you are two of the most successful managers in the history of the game do you still feel a need to constantly reinvent yourselves? BC: You're always trying to raise standards. If we stand still and repeat what we did last year, it won't work. We have to constantly raise standards and that can either involve freshening up the panel or backroom team. The players knowing they must raise standards helps; the perfect hurler or footballer lives nowhere, it's not as if you can get this game cracked. You're constantly going out to bare your soul, it's a massive challenge. That's what sport is about. MH: I wouldn't agree with change for change's sake. You don't always have to change personnel; maybe you just have to help them discover new things about themselves. That's often as good as bringing in a new player. It's no harm to do things somewhat differently because, as Brian says, success at the top level one year will not do the next; we can't just switch on the button and go again. Every player within the package has to deliver some new impetus to the show. Look at Seán Cavanagh, what he got last year you couldn't count on two hands, but he has now to deal with that pressure and see what new skills he can bring to his game. He can't rest on his laurels and say: 'I'm an icon'. And when someone like Seán has to do it all over again after what he's achieved, then we all have to do it. I know that's how Seán himself feels. And if the top man of last year says he has to improve, well all the rest of us have to as well. Both your teams created perfect storms last year. Brian, your side destroyed Waterford and Mickey, your men battered Dublin. Surely there was a common underlying factor in both wins? What was it? BC: The performance in the All-Ireland final was outstanding. If you could dream up a way to play the game that day that was it. Things really fell for us. There's no way I could predict it would happen like that but I knew well they were going to perform; I always feel that anyway because of the attitude that permeates through our panel. Even if we were to lose, I would be confident that the genuineness and spirit would have been there and that's always our starting point. We have discovered it can bring us to certain heights. MH: I couldn't have foreseen the level of performance we reached against Dublin but we were in a good place beforehand. We recognised that our pedigree in the marketplace had been undersold because I think we were improving steadily after the Down game. In fact, we played well twice against Down, who maybe had the one thing in mind -- beating Tyrone. And they only did that by a point. It was not the bad result some people made out. We got on a rehabilitation course against Louth, then played Westmeath who hadn't conceded more than 10 points all year. We met Mayo and people undervalued that game too but they're a decent side and we came out of a tight game. People read it as two ordinary teams clashing but we saw it as a decent win. We were confident against Dublin and they were on a hiding to nothing after beating Wexford well. The game was set nicely for us to ambush them and we did just that. You've got to know each other well over the years. Do you learn much from each other? BC: Yeah, you constantly learn. I'm learning as I'm sitting down here, you're always soaking up stuff. It's important that we're prepared to be open to what's out there. I spoke to the Tyrone boys last year, but what I said was literally nothing. I did it because Mickey and I got to know each other pretty well over the last couple of years and I didn't think anything of going in talking to footballers. I didn't look on them as footballers anyway, I saw them as sportspeople and that's part and parcel of the way things work. I firmly believe everyone knows something, and if you're clever or bright, you will learn. You may not always use it, but it will stick in the memory. MH: Dead right. When Brian and I talk to teams, we don't talk to footballers or hurlers we talk to sports people. I don't care; I talk to rugby folk, soccer folk, I talk to business folk more than anyone. At the end of the day, good practice is good practice, regardless of what you're about. When Brian spoke to us, the great thing was it gave an endorsement to our players that Kilkenny watch us and we could learn from them. We wanted to get up to their level and after Brian came in we knew that we weren't far off the mark ourselves. We mightn't have had a good previous couple of years but we knew we weren't far off the top after listening to Brian. What's more important at your level, man-management or being a good coach? BC: You're managing people, you're managing men and it's a very important part of it. Man-management is down to the basics. And that means respect. If there is respect in the group, the communication channels are open. If that's not there or the mutual respect isn't there, it's impossible to go anywhere. MH: Without a doubt, it doesn't matter how talented the players are -- if they're not nice people I wouldn't want to be there. Even if they have all the skills of the game. I like being around good people and if they're good, solid citizens then the rest is easy to manage. When people buy into our ethos it's good for their relationships and social circle. But we have to be about more than a sport. As Brian says, the key word is respect and good communication skills are hugely important. We have learned that when you listen, it's wonderful what you hear. Say there's a player you really need on your 15, but he's not putting the work in or he has no confidence. What's your approach? BC: To be honest, I would never really see it that anyone has to be on the first 15. It would have to be a player who really wants to be on my team first of all, that's the starting point. It's in the player's hands and it's back to his attitude straight away. If it's obvious to me that he wants to be on our first 15, then you can work on his confidence but if there's a lack of ambition, honesty or genuineness then I wouldn't be pursuing that player. No matter how talented he's perceived to be. MH: I would see that as a challenge to help that player do the best he can. If it's down to their own carelessness and own lack of respect for themselves then I'd have little sympathy but if the player is trying hard and things are not working out for them, I would see that as a major project to help that person find the level they want to reach and let them know that they still have value as a player and a person. I would emphasise that I understand life doesn't always flow as it should sometimes. You have both encouraged your players to slot into different positions in big games over the years. Should a player be able to play anywhere these days? What thoughts occupy your mind when you look to repositioning a player like Seán Cavanagh or Tommy Walsh? BC: Our players, the forwards especially, are very adaptable, and the modern game produces hurlers capable of doing that. To be honest, and not many know this, but I often leave it up to themselves to switch during games. That comes down to the respect I have for the players and their ability to make the right call. I can't play a match for the players, so a lot of it is up to them. The movement takes place especially in our forwards, the backs are very specialised and there's marking to be done there, but if ball dries up in the full-forward line, Henry [Shefflin] or Eddie [Brennan] might see what needs doing and they don't have to look at me to switch. Very often it happens that three or four different players make a move themselves. Lads would be saying afterwards that I'm making all these calls but I'm not. That's the truth. I have absolute confidence in their honesty to play these positions and of course I have confidence in their abilities too. We're very flexible. They're not straitjacketed like some people think they are. MH: Reassuring players about making moves is not too hard, it depends on what your key attribute is as a player. I want footballers to firstly develop all the skills of the game. Then I look at the position thing. But it's way down the line. I don't want them to get hooked on one position, instead they must have all the skills. In the days when I played the game, the forwards stood up front, hoped the ball went up to them, they took scores if they could and folded their arms until someone got it back to them again . . . lazy people generally. It's not like that anymore. The forwards have to be the best tacklers and defenders need to go forward. The game is much more fluid now. But before moving someone you don't throw people into these things unaware; you look at their profile, where they may have played before and you practise it on the training field. A versatile player on our team has a good chance. When we first started in 2003 we had no midfield, apparently, and we had to work around that. Players now get to do things they wouldn't normally have done, What do you make of the new rules? Is it silly to have hurling and football tarred with the same brush? Were there more problems in Gaelic football? BC: I really don't know, and I haven't spent much time thinking about it. I was away on holidays and in our last two games, Walsh Cup matches, both were refereed sensibly, My biggest fear is that refs would go out negatively, looking to produce yellow cards and just watching out for negativity, That hasn't happened yet and I don't want to pre-judge them. But I don't think there was too much wrong with hurling to be honest and I would hate to think that they'll [Croke Park] get obsessed with any sort of physicality. It's a physical game, within the rules of course, and I just hope that referees' mindsets will not be on looking out for problems instead of letting the game flow. MH: I would want to give things a chance. You can't dismiss the rules until you see them in prolonged action. We had three McKenna Cup games, three different referees, and there was only one yellow card in all games, the card was not against us either. If the refs are sensible, I have no problem. In fact, if they did show common sense with the old rules they'd be fine for me too. The league will tell a tale. Intensity rises as the season goes on because players are fitter and the ground is harder. We'll see then but the jury is still out. On match day there are perceptions of you both. Mickey, you're portrayed as a calm figure; Brian, you can be seen as hard-nosed on the line. Will there ever come a time when GAA managers are forced to watch from the stands? BC: I wouldn't want that to come in. I like being on the line. I like the freedom of being there. I would not want to sit. I like being on my own and having my selectors behind me for a chat if I want. I don't think we have to do it just because managers sit in stands in other sports. It seems to happen that we take ideas from other sports but there's no point in people saying we can't see enough on the sideline. I see plenty. MH: I agree totally. There's a sense of connection when you're close to the action. You don't have to get involved, don't have to rant and rave, but the players can connect with you if they so wish. And it's no bad thing if a player sees you're staying in control, regardless of the scoreboard. If you're sitting in the stands, you're just one of 80,000 people. On the line, there's an intangible bond, a connection is the best word I can use. You feel for the players when you're close by. Brian, if you were in a position where a key player was absent all year would you bring him back for an All-Ireland final like Mickey did with Stephen O'Neill? BC: What a top player first of all. I wouldn't comment on an individual case, you go on your instinct. I decide things on my gut instinct. If the situation arises, you do it; if it's best for team, then I'd do it. Mickey, it worked. At the time you insisted he was coming back for the rest of his career, not just one match, but you would have got slated had Tyrone lost that final. MH: To me, it was the right decision regardless of the result of the match -- the right decision is always the right decision. Because we won, no one is talking about it in bad terms, but if we lost there'd have been a jury out to hang me. I don't care. You live by your decisions. I said at the time that he wasn't back for the year, he was back for good, for the rest of his career and I think that the country at large will appreciate that in due course. There is huge media attention on Gaelic games. Still, even though some ex-Kilkenny players might feel aggrieved that their careers weren't longer, there hasn't been much criticism of your reign, Brian. But Mickey, despite your success, the knives were out big time for you last season. MH: That's life, maybe there's more access to the media in the north than in Kilkenny, a certain number of people are fickle anyway and often the most fickle are the loudest and those who know better say less. I've learned over the years that you don't give the power of your wellbeing over to people who stand on the sidelines and fire shots at you. It's not a good thing to do. I have to respect their ignorance. Which I do. Brian? BC: When you're winning, it helps. It curtails criticism. That's about it. What's the best thing about being an inter-county manager? And the worst? BC: It's not just a case of sport only being enjoyable if you're winning. Look, we have been successful but we have lost big games too and it comes back to spirit between management, players, board, clubs and supporters. Even when we lose that our spirit is intact; disappointments will happen along the way and if you can't handle the bit of pressure that follows a loss, you have no business being here. Lowlights? There are none for me. The media? They are vital for the GAA and there has to be exposure. Now, it's not all terrific, the standards are not always what they should be and they can lower the tone for many in their profession -- but they don't get to me. I'm very comfortable, confident in my own ability to do it. I've been in the job 10 years. It's mad but time has just rolled on. It didn't start off successfully, but we've had great times since. Ah, it's not even about that, what I love most of all is just the training, being part of the whole thing, I love big matches and small matches, but the training, where I see the players letting themselves go and are totally honest, that's what I love. They don't have to be badgered or driven -- they're on time and it works. Henry could be there for an hour hitting frees and could go home then hitting frees for another hour. Absolute honesty -- if that was to cease I'd be a failure and I'd have to go. But it's there and it's still intact. MH: It's my seventh year, 17 years since I started off with the minors. BC: It's too long Mickey. MH: Maybe you're right. But it's a privilege to be working with Tyrone since 1991. We learned a lot about life and family life over the years; the spirit of Paul McGirr lives on, his team-mates carry that spirit on and the core of his team is still there. We revisited tragedy in 2004 when we lost Cormac, but again we helped each other along, The sense of the reality of life, people get overworked about sport but life is about so much more 'It's a privilege to be working with Tyrone since 1991. We learned a lot about life and family life over the years. The spirit of Paul McGirr lives on' than that. The lads have built great friendships, they have respect for their families. Tragedy was part of our lives. Kevin Hughes lost a brother and a sister, John Devine lost his dad, our bereavements were pretty acute, but that's when the GAA comes into it. The spirit Brian talks about is crucial then. The lads enjoy each other's company in life and they don't get caught up in the seriousness of it. These are tough times in Ireland. How will the economic problems affect the GAA? BC: It's not visible to us yet, but it's a tough time and jobs are being lost. It's hard to see how the GAA will avoid it; clubs will be hit, young fellas will lose jobs, some will have to travel. It's the reality of life now and for the next couple of years. One good thing is that wherever they go now the GAA is there for them. It's some bit of comfort for people going away that they can get involved in a piece of home MH: There's no direct evidence for us either, thank God, but it will affect clubs. It's unfortunate, maybe the GAA gives people an outlet here and focuses people's minds, maybe people can share their problems through sport. We have a sense of support in the GAA where people will do all they can to help. Even our clubs are strong now and are keeping their good players. Nowhere in the world is safe from the economic gloom at the moment, so maybe people are better off at home. This year, the Association celebrates 125 years but there's a third strike in seven years in Cork, we now have player grants and management upheavals. Do you ever wonder where it will all end? BC: The times we're living in, I suppose. Essentially, though, the spirit of the GAA is alive and well and is to be found all over the place. Negative things tend to be highlighted but the GAA is massively strong and clubs are the heartbeat. My players give everything to their clubs, they have to be leaders in their clubs. There's so much that's great about the Association but it's no longer highlighted, we wait for the next problem. Drug-testing came upon us from on high, there was a big episode this year but it in no way tarnished anyone. Whatever else is going on, well we're dealing with people, and there will always be ups and downs, MH: We have to keep balance and perspective, bad news makes the news, sometimes it appears as if there's nothing but problems. The GAA has had a positive impact on so many people, the connection of people abroad; yes there are difficulties that arise from time to time, when there are so many people involved there will always be trouble but the GAA have navigated their way through 125 years and look at all the advances they have made, clubs have training facilities, floodlighting. Junior clubs are able to raise a quarter of a million euro to put up dressing rooms and coaching is thriving at underage level. The GAA is all about what can I give, not what can I get. That's still the prevailing ethos, sometimes other things appear to contradict that, but they are not even in the same league as what has been given. Brian, before we go, what's the biggest challenge facing hurling? BC: It's in a great state, it's very healthy. I've been listening for years about Leinster hurling and always gone against the view that its poor. This year, we have Galway and Antrim and it strengthens a very decent championship, there are massive strides being made in Dublin and we played Antrim recently and they were, genuinely, a good hurling team. All they're lacking is regular exposure to top-class games but I'm sure they're on a high now, looking forward to playing in Croke Park. Carlow are improving, I was in Sligo a while back to present Nickey Rackard medals and the sheer excitement and love of the game was evident. I loved it as much as anything, just being there among people who loved hurling and got phenomenal satisfaction out of winning the championship they could win. The All-Ireland club semi-final between 'Shamrocks and Portumna will be worth anything to see. In Kilkenny, the underage scene is going through the roof, young fellas hurling from under six right up along. It's a great time. And Mickey, what do you reckon is the biggest challenge facing football? MH: To continue evolving. Some of these names like 'blanket defence' were bandied about and it gave negative connotations. To call it that did it a great disservice and it caught on. The game has to evolve. Dublin and Kerry in the 1970s gave us the best football we saw for a while but it moved on. Now we're in the noughties and it's moved on again. It's the way it has to be -- otherwise people get bored. The supporters need to see more creativity, we have more complete footballers now than in any generation but it will change again in a few years, strategies will change again, people will copy successful systems and what we're looking at now, we'll look back in 10-15 years and describe it as ordinary. I'm looking forward to moving on, it's taxing but it brings things to new level. Overall, we're in a good state. 
