sport gaa
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    January 17 2015 11:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/leftfield/have-your-say-breaking-gaas-glass-ceiling-30916220.html }
I read with great interest Dermot Crowe's article about the doors that have been opened, particularly with respect to Roisin Jordan's appointment to the chair in Tyrone recently, for women in the GAA. I would like you to know that I was the first break through in Ireland on many levels in the GAA. It was so long ago now it is easy for people to forget! I was appointed secretary of my beloved Rathcoffey GFC in Co Kildare in 1972. I was 20 years of age then, I was single then and my name was Mary Flood. I soon became a delegate to county board for my club, and was elected county registrar of the Kildare County Board in January 1975. While retaining the registrar's position for the next nine years, I was privileged to be elected unanimously as county vice-chair in 1981, and held that position for three years. I was married then and my name was and is now Mary Weld. I retired from administration in the GAA in 1984 as my children were growing fast and needed me at home more! I also managed Rathcoffey School football team, was secretary of Bord na nOg for a while and also secretary of Scór in Kildare. I never had time to wash the jerseys or make the tea for the GAA! I would like to think I was responsible for putting the first crack in the ceiling of the GAA for women, and applaud my club and county for having such belief in the fairer sex. Mary Weld   Let's hear it for TG4 sport After watching the wonderful selection of football matches on TG4 over the last few months, including provincial club finals and ladies football, I was so proud and happy that we have a station that shows us so much variety. We have heard so much lately of cutbacks at RTE and other stations, and have watched Sky and Setanta take over so much of the televising of sporting events - no good to the likes of me and thousands more who have not got those services. Tg4 excel in showing such an amount of sports: they cover the Tour De France, they show boxing, including Katie Taylor's defence of her world title, snooker, darts, motor racing, horse racing etc. However, it is the televising of the provincial rugby matches that is the highlight at this time of year. TG4 can deliver the goods on a limited budget I am sure. It makes the paying of the TV licence more appealing to one and all, young and old. So TG4 thank you and keep up the good work, and I know I am not alone in wishing you continued success. Murt Hunt   Drug testing not a level field Unfortunately drug testing in sport is not uniform either by sport or country, so comparisons are neither fair or valid. Athletics, like soccer, is worldwide in participation but not worldwide in testing so comparisons with other sports are not valid. We have seen the recent Russian scandal and the huge increase in detection in Kenya when the IAAF put in a programme of 'flying testers': 21 failures in 2014! Many parts of the world have no testing because there is no budget and perhaps no moral imperative. My daughter, a prominent Irish middle distance runner, qualified for sports council funding aged 18. She had five tests in that year and regularly since, despite no subsequent funding. To keep funding she needed to finish in the top eight in the European under 23 1500m to remain funded. She was 10th in the final and has since been elevated to ninth as one of the runners ahead of her failed a test. I'm convinced that no other sports person in Ireland in the professional sports would have been tested at this rate. We are, in any event, never told. Athletics, for all its faults, implements immediate complete bans for all failures. Other sports like rugby and soccer appear to keep failures under wraps until a series of committees review 'the evidence' and adjudicate quietly. I have no recollection of a single four-year ban being imposed in either sport. Full research and comparisons between the testing and management of failures in different sports would make worthy research and reporting. Certainly better than using data from vested interests. Any comparison between sports needs to reflect the numbers participating, the level of testing both worldwide and in Ireland and even more importantly how testing and related failures are handled. Liam Treacy Marcus O'Sullivan (Former athlete) "The highlights get crystallised towards the end of your career. A lot of the time you are just passing through, a work in progress, and it is not until the end draws near that you start to look for the moments that represent you as an athlete." Those are the reflective words of Marcus O'Sullivan, three times World Indoor champion over 1500m, as he ponders the notion of outstanding moments in his 15-year career as a top athlete. Looking back over that relatively long career, free from serious injuries, it is the moments that represent him as a person he chooses as the golden ones, not the races that brought medals. The Corkman is one of only three people to have recorded a century of sub-four-minute miles, and it is this achievement which he feels defines him as an athlete. "It took me 15 years to achieve that milestone, and I have almost as many at 1500m. It was a big part of my career and represents who I was as an athlete." Now in his 17th year as the track and field coach at Villanova, where he studied himself, the world record for the mile relay that he set along with Ray Flynn, Eamonn Coghlan and Frank O'Mara at Belfield 30 years ago is an unforgettable night that almost didn't happen. "That was a transformative evening. Going out to do the warm-up, the stadium was empty but when we came out to run it was full. People had come from their homes to be part of it. I walked away feeling very fulfilled. It was a special night and we all still talk about it now." Another night in 1985 completes his defining moments. Winning a European 1500m silver medal in front of an enthusiastically vocal crowd of Irish football fans taking in the athletics while in Budapest for a match, was the first time in his career he felt the weight of a nation's expectations bearing on him and it was a wonderful feeling to fulfil their patriotic hopes. A father of two, he has overseen the careers of 15 national champions in the cauldron that is American college sports. "As much as I love the technical aspects of coaching, college is a critical part of their lives and we are trying to develop their values, provide them with a good moral compass and teach them life-skills," O'Sullivan explains. 776 The new record for career centuries set by Ronnie  O’Sullivan during his Masters quarter-final victory over Marco Fu on Thursday. ‘Everybody on the outside can tell me I’m crazy, but I lived on the inside and saw it first-hand.’ Nascar driver Kurt ‘the Outlaw’ Busch testified in court last week that he believes his former girlfriend is a trained assassin who takes part in covert operations and inspired a character in the film Zero Dark Thirty Sunday Indo Sport 
