sport gaa
{ Colm O'Rourke 
    October 20 2013 01:14 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/colm-orourke-national-games-worthy-of-special-place-on-curriculum-29674393.html }
The future of sport in schools should be a concern to all – whether people are interested in the competitive aspect or simply in the health benefits derived from exercise. It stands to reason that a large part of sporting activity should be focused on schools where young people will spend much of their days from now until June. Yet the penetration of sport at schools level is decidedly patchy and getting more so. It may appear that various sports are thriving, but private schools promoting rugby gain a disproportionate share of publicity which in turn distorts the overall picture. What the rugby schools do they do very well, but it is a lot easier in private schools as most have some level of funding to promote their games, while the majority of other schools pushing various sports rely on goodwill from staff and a thin budget. The comparison is not like for like. The Budget exaggerated the trend by reducing funding for sport, a move that will impact on everyone in the long run. Cuts which have reduced sports funding from €57.3m five years ago to €40m now give a fair indication as to sport's position in the overall scheme of things. Into the breach, as they have always done, step organisations like the GAA which provide the glue that keeps many communities together. And because they are amateur and will keep going regardless, their role in society is largely undervalued. A statement like that might seem to come from the extremist side of the GAA, where everyone is looked on as an enemy. Yet the promotion of all sport in schools is damaged by Government policy which underfunds and basically ignores its very existence. I know that it can sound like a broken record but there were great opportunities under the Croke Park hours to make a meaningful contribution to sport in schools as well as drama, debating, music and a lot of other things. Instead, the extra 33 hours which were part of the original Croke Park hours were designated for after-school planning purposes where all the staff had to be together to carry out largely meaningless tasks. A small number of these hours could have been set aside for planning and the rest left at the discretion of school management. They could have been used to reward teachers to get involved in sport and other activities that could have had a real benefit to students. In just looking at the narrower benefits for football, as it is my particular interest, it would have created enormous goodwill among teachers if they saw that their work was being valued in this way. The more involvement, the greater the health benefits to all young people who participate and the less obesity and general ill health. Not for the first time the Department of Education missed the wider meaning of education, which is unsurprising when they negotiate agreements with no involvement from school management – who might actually tell them the right way to do things. On the other side are the ASTI who have never inspired me as having any vision of what education is about. If they had greater interest in their members they would have been sorting out something like this which would benefit school morale, extra participation in sport by young people and job satisfaction among teachers. Instead they are like the mother at the Garda passing-out parade who gazed admiringly on her son who could not march a step and announced to everyone, "They are all out of step except my Johnny". And the leadership continue to march lemming-like to the cliff edge, in the process causing dissent and rancour. In this environment schools and colleges football has taken a hit. Some places find it very difficult to get a teacher to take a team, others play games without much preparation as they now find that their teaching load is heavier. On top of that are extra hours in the evenings which only serve to annoy dedicated teachers who could be out training a team or doing something productive. And so we have a state education system which recognises the native language as important but actively works against the promotion of the national games. It is hard to square the two. After such a great year of football and hurling, and where The Gathering was swollen by huge numbers coming home for GAA events, not to mention the support the GAA community gives to emigrants, it is time for a change of policy. Increased support for football and hurling at schools level is not a threat to anybody or any other sport. It is about ensuring that the national games, if that term has any meaning, are funded and protected to some extent from global sports which can offer professional opportunities to talented sportspeople. It is an uneven struggle even if few organisations enjoy the number of volunteers that the GAA can muster in communities. I have often made the point that any school that does not make some effort to expose its students to Gaelic games is not giving a proper broad education. It is part of the wider cultural experience of music, language and games which is part of what we are. If young people take it or leave it then that is their choice but the first experience for many young Irish of the GAA is when they go abroad. And they find it a positive one as sharing and giving is part of the GAA philosophy. If schools' football suffered an irreversible decline, then clubs would be under greater pressure to provide a more extensive fixture list, while many schools without sport in general would be soulless places. The GAA needs to be more flexible too, more 11- and 13-a-side games, changing age groups to school years rather than ages, more first and second year games, big matches under lights at night, more input from county boards in providing basic gear. In other words, try anything and everything because a player who plays football over the winter in school will be a better player for club and county. Not only that but all research indicates a better and more active healthy mind too. It's not too often that everyone can be a winner if the nuts and bolts are put in place, but success can only come from a joint approach from the Department, school management, county boards and provincial councils. There are plenty of teachers to do the work if they get a lead. Sunday Independent 
