sport gaa
{ Frank Khan 
    December 16 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/gaa-berates-fine-gael-over-interference-in-its-affairs-26252384.html }
FINE Gael was embroiled in a bitter row with the GAA last night over its suggestion that Croke Park might be used  for rugby and soccer internationals. In a stinging attack, GAA president Sean McCague expressed amazement that a major political party should "attempt to manipulate" the sports body's policy and "interfere with the management and administration of the Association for their own political agenda and expediency". In its sports policy document A Sporting Chance, drawn up by its spokesman, former Kerry All-Ireland football star Jimmy Deenihan, Fine Gael said that if returned to government it would talk to the GAA about funding the completion and upgrading of its headquarters. Mr Deenihan said yesterday: "Hopefully the GAA in return would allow for the occasional rugby or soccer international game to be played that would require a seating for up to 80,000 people." But he insisted there was "no conditionality no pressure, no strings attached" on the GAA. He added: "What we are trying to do is use the money to be spent on Abbotstown (Campus Ireland) right across the country in developing a real world-class infrastructure for all the communities in the country so the GAA will gain considerably from our proposals." The party spokesman said he was amazed and disappointed by Mr McCague's reaction. He also insisted he had tried without success to make contact with the Croke Park authorities as far back as last July by telephone and in writing. But Mr McCague said last night that Fine Gael "never had any discussions with the Association in regard to the formulation of their current published policy on sport". While he welcomed the party's plan to provide enhanced spending on sport, he could not accept that "uniquely amongst sporting organisations" any funding from the party for Croke Park would be conditional in terms of the use of the stadium. He pointed out the GAA's own investment in Croke Park and other stadia around the country amounted to hundreds of millions of pounds with massive returns to the exchequer. The GAA chief added: "We expect funding commensurate with our investment and we will not and cannot accept funding that is conditional relative to the use of our grounds or change of our rules." And he reminded Fine Gael it was the GAA's responsibility to provide for the development "of our sports and infrastructure". He added: "Matters of policy are issues for our membership through Congress alone. "In all issues of policy, the GAA has always reserved the right to allow its membership decide in theinterest of the Association only and not based on party political association, political ideals, agendi orexpediency." He hoped Fine Gael would reconsider its policy and approach in respect of the GAA and apply the same considerations and criteria to it, as it said it intended for other sporting organisations. 
