sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    June 30 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/revealed-damning-report-exposes-glaring-inadequacies-in-gaa-spending-and-player-development-34844507.html }
Glaring inadequacies have been uncovered in four Leinster counties across many key areas of team preparation, player development, deployment of sports science and use of financial resources. A major report presents a chaotic picture of sloppy administration, poor communication between various strands of team management across various grades, a shortage of properly qualified coaches, a lack of understanding of the need for properly applied sports science and little structured mid- to long-term planning. Offaly, Laois, Carlow and Westmeath are the counties involved in a study which Leinster Council chairman John Horan has described as "one of the most significant reports to be published in the GAA for many years". The 18-page document, which has been seen by the Irish Independent, arises from a Leinster Council initiative to undertake an extensive analysis of how a €1 million fund, allocated to five lower-ranked counties for hurling development over five years, was being spent. 
 
Close
 Liam O’Neill will leave his role as GAA president ‘physically, emotionally and mentally drained’ SPORTSFILE / The four above-named counties, plus Antrim, are the beneficiaries of the grant, which was put in place in 2014 by Liam O'Neill during his term as GAA president. Antrim were not involved in the Leinster Council study, which was carried out by Nickey Brennan, former GAA president; Michael Dempsey, head of the Sports Academy at Carlow IT and Kilkenny hurling trainer; Shane Flanagan, Leinster Council operations and games manager; Colm Clear, Leinster Council education manager. The study involved an analysis of activity in the four counties and included interviews with senior, U-21 and minor hurling managers, plus county board officers. 
 
Close
 Leinster CEO Michael Reynolds. Photo: Sportsfile SPORTSFILE / In a stark overview, Horan says that the report "makes no attempt to sugar-coat where we stand or what the future is". "One of the chief findings is confirmation that we could be getting a better return on our financial investment." The follow-the-money approach to the analysis reached some stark conclusions, which suggest that while the four counties were all totally genuine in their endeavours, attempts to do the right thing were undermined by a lack of expertise across several areas. "Key stakeholders did not appear to possess sufficient knowledge or awareness of both long and short-term outcomes in order to manage the funding in such as a way as to bridge the gap with Tier 1 counties. "In many cases senior managers, County Board officers and staff stated that they had inadequate understanding of the basic elements of high performance. "There was a significant lack of coherence among all the stakeholders in the operation of the funding within the counties, poor communication, confused agendas and a lack of clear direction lessened the likelihood that the funding programme would deliver a positive outcome," notes the report. An area of major concern for the review group centres on the haphazard manner in which sports science (strength and conditioning, nutrition, body composition, player health/welfare and sports psychology) is being applied. They discovered a dearth of expertise, planning and monitoring at administrative level while sports-science personnel ('service providers') were allowed to do their own thing in a largely uncontrolled environment. Questions have been raised too about the competency of some of those providing sport science services. The group also asserts that there was "some apathy towards certain areas of sports science in all four counties". "It was typified by this response from one manager: 'I don't have any time for this sports science stuff.' "This is probably due to a lack of knowledge and understanding on the part of county boards and team management. For example, there was no re-testing of senior players in three counties. The competence of some of the service providers in receipt of funding must be questioned in this regard," says the report. The sports science area comes in for much attention as the group identified it as an area in urgent need of streamlining. They discovered that it was common for sports science personnel to run their own show. None of the counties had anyone managing or coordinating the sports science team. Some managers admitted that they 'didn't really understand this sports science stuff so it's left up to the lads' (service providers). In some cases, the extent of the contact between team management and sports science personnel was minimal with one manager describing it thus: 'We would have a chat over the phone going home to plan what to do next.' Yet, the group discovered that of the €159,000 drawn down from the Hurling Development Fund by the four counties in 2015, most was spent on sports science services for the senior teams, with strength and conditioning (€54,600) the largest expense. Those figures relate to the grant only so it's likely that considerably more was spent in this area by the counties. The report points out that there is no requirement for service providers to meet any accreditation criteria and that the problem was exacerbated by a lack of expertise among those making the appointments (team managers and/or county boards). The group recommends establishing a panel of accredited sports science specialists, who would work with developing counties. They also call for "fast-tracking the many strength-and-conditioning coaches who work with GAA teams into the Association's own accreditation structures". Concerns are expressed over the absence of skill-testing in the four counties involved. Instead, there was "an over-emphasis in the strength and conditioning areas, resulting in less focus on technical, tactical, team play development, psychological and nutrition." Communication was poor too with minimal contact between senior, U-21 and minor managers. "There was little evidence of training plans being put in place and in no case was the management of a county team (senior/U-21/minor) required to submit training plans to the county board." While the report concentrates on the experience in the four Leinster counties in receipt of Hurling Development funding, the authors believe that its findings are equally applicable to many - if not most - other counties. To that end, they recommend that the GAA centrally builds its own technical expertise by employing people with the required skills "to design, manage, monitor and deliver effective programmes to support our amateur players and coaches." The report has been forwarded to the GAA's Management Committee so that the findings can be shared nationally, rather than confined to the four counties directly involved and the rest of Leinster. Irish Independent 
