sport gaa
{  
    January 26 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/breheny-beat-strong-lobbying-for-tax-breaks-is-least-players-deserve-26005779.html }
ON first inspection, it seems totally bizarre. How, in the name of all that's fair and equitable, could amateur GAA players expect to receive tax concessions from the Government as an acknowledgment of their contribution to society? Would it not make a mockery of the tax code to grant relief on unearned money? And where would it lead? If tax breaks were granted to GAA players why not to amateurs in others sports? All are interesting questions but just because the answers might prove awkward doesn't mean the queries shouldn't be raised. In one of its more innovative proposals, the GPA asked the Department of Finance two years ago if tax breaks were a possibility for GAA players. The response was straight out of the 'Yes Minister' handbook of bureaucratic-speak but in essence, it decreed thatit was not really an option. Now, the matter is to be formally raised again, this time by the GAA itself. It was appropriate that the announcement by President, Sean Kelly of the decision to agitate with Government on the players' behalf should be made in Hong Kong, one of the world's great trading centres although that had nothing to do with the timing. Perhaps it was the sight of the Vodafone football All Stars in all their ambassadorial splendour that prompted Kelly to press on with an interesting concept. It's unlikely that the Government will respond any more favourably to the GAA than it did to the GPA but, at the very least, it re-opens a debate which cannot continue to be ignored. "We have no problem with professional sports people getting tax incentives but we also believe that our players should be similarly recognised. It shouldn't be outside the ingenuity of those who devise the tax laws to come up with a scheme which benefits GAA players," said Kelly. And there's the crux of the issue. Professional sports people are entitled to generous tax breaks, as are singers, musicians, artists and assorted others. Even the mating habits of thoroughbred horses come in for special consideration under Irish tax law, yet GAA players who contribute so much to the country are ignored. In purely economic terms, the GAA can make a coherent case as to why the tax break idea is viable. The Exchequer benefits enormously every year from the tax revenue generated from GAA activities. In fact, the figure is increasing annually as the games schedule grows in line with the demands of a public who are more than happy to spend money on tickets, transport and other expenses as they follow their teams around the country. Even apart from the economic impetus created by GAA activities, there is the question of how Irish society values its unique games and those who sustain them. However much the critics - and there are many of them - seek to portray Gaelic football and hurling as parochial and, by extension, predatory on mainstream professional sports, the reality is that they represent a significant chunk of the country's heritage and should be respected for that. Granting small tax breaks to the top exponents would be a fitting way of thanking the players for the enormous effort they put into ensuring that the highest preparation and fitness standards are met. Is it fair, for instance, that GAA players, whom the Government contend (so far at least) are not entitled to any tax concessions are subject to the same stringent drug-testing as professionals? There's an inescapable irony in the fact that drug testers are paid a fee and expenses to pursue amateur GAA players around the country, demanding that they provide samples, yet when a request for tax relief is made, the Government hides behind the amateur excuse. The big test now facing the GAA is to present a very detailed case to Government as to why tax breaks should apply. Equally importantly, they will have to spell out exactly how the scheme would operate and how much it would cost. Obviously, it could only apply to inter-county players and would have to be tightly controlled so that no abuses took place. However that should be quite easy to achieve in a partnership between the Department of Finance and the GAA. One of the key questions is whether the Government will approach the issue in good faith or simply reject it as having no basis in the sensible application of the tax laws. One fears that may well turn out to be the case, which is why the GAA have got to mount a serious campaign to persuade the authorities of the uniqueness of the case. Quite simply, it comes down to this. Does the Government appreciate the special contribution GAA players make to society? If so, they will find a mechanism to tie in a modest tax concession, based on out-of-pocket expenses. The cost to the Exchequer would be minimal, certainly by comparison with the tax breaks awarded to the bloodstock industry where, in many cases, the beneficiaries are already extremely wealthy. Sean Kelly has promised to set up an expert committee to devise a tax proposal when he returns from Hong Kong. It should report very quickly and then begin the lobbying campaign at Government level. It's the least GAA players deserve.  Martin Breheny
  Breheny Beat e-mail: mbreheny@eircom.net 
