sport gaa
{  
    March 09 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/countywide-27359034.html }
THE next round of the East Kerry senior league will be played in Direen on Sunday, March 5 at 2.30pm against Rathmore. Last weekends match v Gneeveguilla was cancelled as a mark of respect to the late Pat Adams.SENIOR COUNTY LEAGUE: The first round of the county league commences on Sunday, March 19 v Beale in Direen.U-14 BOYS: Training for u-14 boys has been switched THE next round of the East Kerry senior league will be played in Direen on Sunday, March 5 at 2.30pm against Rathmore. Last weekend’s match v Gneeveguilla was cancelled as a mark of respect to the late Pat Adams. SENIOR COUNTY LEAGUE: The first round of the county league commences on Sunday, March 19 v Beale in Direen. U-14 BOYS: Training for u-14 boys has been switched to Thursday at 5.30pm in Direen. There will be a challenge match in Direen on Sunday at 12 noon. Players to assemble for 11.30am. U-12 BOYS: Training for u-12 boys begins on Wednesday, March 8 at 5.30pm in Direen. JUVENILE FOOTBALL: Don’t forget training for u-16 to u-10 boys and girls begins on Saturday, March 11 from 10.30am to 12 noon in Direen. Looking forward to seeing you all and having some fun. PAT ADAMS RIP: The club mourns the death of Pat Adams who passed away on Friday morning after losing his battle with Motor Neurone Disease. Pat played for the Legion from underage to senior level, winning numerous championships and leagues. He captained Killarney to a minor county championship win in 1986 and in the same year won a Munster colleges senior medal with St Brendan’s, Killarney to add to his Frewen Cup medal which he won in 1984 also playing with the Sem. Pat was to play a major part in the Legion’s victories in the county league Division 1 and county club in 1993 and ’94. I n 1999 Pat transferred to Gaultier GAA club in Waterford because of work commitments. Legion’s loss was Gaultier’s gain as he helped them to win the Intermediate championship in 2003. Pat worked in Waterford City Municipal Golf Course before moving to Kilkenny in the last six months. Pat married his wife Maire, who is from Kilkenny in 2000 and they had two children, Ciara and Seán. Pat died at the age of 37. Pat’s removal and funeral took place in Kilkenny on Saturday and Sunday and was attended by all his old team-mates and friends from the legion. The club extends its deepest sympathy to Pat’s wife Maire, his children Ciara and Seán, his mother Delia, his brothers and sisters and extended family. May he rest in peace. CONGRATULATIONS: Happy birthday to Betty Lyne, Cleeney, who celebrated her 80th birthday recently surrounded by her children and grandchildren Betty is the wife of the late Denny Lyne. Denny was one of the famous Lyne brothers of Cleeney, Kerry and Legion great, who served his club and county with such distinction. BABY JOY: Another footballer for the Legion and the Griffin family with the arrival of Paddy and Sheila’s little boy, Joshua, who was christened at the weekend. Congratulations to you both. MUSICAL TALENT: Congratulations to Katie McAuliffe, who qualified as one of six finalists for the Killarney Rotary Club Young Musician of the Year out of approximately 200 competitors. While Katie did not win the competition this was her second year qualifying for the final which is open to all ages up to 18/19 years of age. Quite an achievement for an 11 year old with the voice of an angel. Look at Charlotte Church. Well done also to Máiréad O’Donoghue, who won the u-12 category playing the violin and to Rachel Murphy who won her category playing a piano duet with Eileen Galbraith from Beaufort. With all this talent coming through the future of Scór in the club is looking very bright. Listry SCOR SINSEAR: Best of luck to Listry Novelty Act who are in the Kerry Finals on Sunday next 12th March, at the Gleneagle. They are Ted Ahern, Bernie Buckley, Maura Kennedy, Mike Tangney, Brendan Allman & Sean O'Sullivan. GAA: Minor & U. 16 training in Cromane on Friday evening next at 7pm. Under 14 training in Listry on Wed. evening at 7.30pm. LADIES FOOTBALL: Registration meeting for U.12, U.14 and U.16's girl's football will take place in the Clubrooms, Milltown on Friday, March 10th at 7.30pm. All players must attend accompanied by a parent/guardian. Medals will be presented. New members welcome. RURAL SOCIAL SCHEME: Vacancies exist in the Listry/Faha area for participants on the Rural Social Scheme. For further details contact Rosarie or Mary at 066-9761615. SYMPATHY is extended to the Broderick Family Rockfield on the death of their sister Sheila McAuliffe, Kilcolman, Milltown, who died suddenly on Sat. morning last. R.I.P. Also sympathy to Mary Hartnett O'Sullivan & her son Donie of Aglish, on the death of her brother Jack, who was buried in Aghadoe on Sun. last. R.I.P. Sympathy to John & Margaret Griffin and their daughter Elizabeth of Roscartan Faha, on the death of John's mother Elizabeth, who was buried in Inch on Sun. last. R.I.P. GET WELL We would like to wish Kieran Buckley Rockfield, a speedy recovery and hope to see him back on the football field soon again. COMMUNITY COUNCIL: K.D.Y.S. meeting in Listry Community Centre on Friday 23rd March, at 8.30pm sharp. All 6th class and upwards children (starting Secondary 2006) who are interested in short term project with a view to setting up a KDYS Youth Club in the area. All are welcome. PARISH SOCIAL: Our Parish Social will be held on Sat. night next 11th March, in Dromhall Hotel. Still plenty of tickets available. LOTTO: Winning No's 1, 3, 16, 22. Jackpot not won. Consolation Prize Winners as follows. 3 x ?50. Mike Kennedy Ballymalis. Ciara O'Donoghue Lissivane East. Tom O'Leary Ballyhar. 5 x ?20. Fergus Clifford Lahard. Niall O'Shea Lissivane East. Eimer & Louise Quirke Laharn. Cianna Foley Keel. Kathleen Cronin Ballytrasna. Jackpot next week March 12th. ?3,050. Milltown KENYA FAMINE RELIEF: A Table Quiz in aid of famine victims will take place in Griffin's Bar, Castlemaine on Thursday March 23rd at 8.30pm. Table of 4 - ?30. Raffle prizes, trophies, table sponsorship and donations deeply appreciated. All proceed will go to the stricken area. Contact Renee or Nigel at 066 9767339 or 087 9445156 SEAN NOS: Step Dancing and Brush Dancing Classes will commence at Castlemaine Community Centre on Sat. 25th March for 6 weeks. Adults ?30, Children ?18. Enquiries at Centre 9767833. LADIES FOOTBALL: Registration meeting for U12, U14 and U16 girls football will take place in the Clubrooms, Milltown on Friday, March 10, at 7.30pm. All players must attend accompanied by a parent. Medals will be presented. New members welcome. GAA: The postponed Mid Kerry league semi-final, Beaufort v Milltown / Castlemaine, which was due to take place on Sunday, will now be played on Sunday, March 12 at Beaufort at 2pm. LOTTO: The postponed lotto draw which was due to take place on Sunday night will now take place on Sunday, March 12 in Griffin’s Bar, Castlemaine. The jackpot is ?2,000. MEMBERSHIP . . . is now due. Membership fees are as follows — Adult ?30; Players ?20; Students ?15. The Membership Officer is Willie O’Shea, Kilcolman, Milltown. ST PATRICK’S DAY PARADE: The 2006 St Patrick’s Day Parade will take place before Mass on Thursday, March 17. Milltown / Castlemaine GAA club are asked once again to take part. Managers of all teams from the seniors down to u-8s should see that team members will take part. Indeed the whole club should be involved in this venture. Brendan Twiss, Damien McCarthy and John Joe Harmon will be the co-ordinators on the day. All participants should assemble at the Mart at 9.30pm. SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING: Milltown / Castlemaine GAA club are holding a special general meeting on Tuesday, March 28 in the clubrooms, Paddy Burke Memorial Park, Milltown, commencing at 8.30pm. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss and adopt a club constitution. VOTE OF SYMPATHY: Milltown / Castlemaine GAA club was saddened to hear of the unexpected death of Sheila McAuliffe in the early hours of Saturday morning. The club would like to extend its sympathy to her husband, George, sons Joseph and John, daughters Muireann, Emer, Deirdre and Aoife and to her extended family and friends. Sheila took a great interest in GAA affairs and in the playing careers of her family members. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a h-anam. Portmagee BIG WHIST: The next Big Whist will be held on next Monday night 13th Marchí06 in the Portmagee Community Centre at 9.00 p.m. All are welcome. TABLE QUIZ: The Portmagee Community Centre and the G.A.A. Club are running a fund raising Table Quiz on Thursday 16th Marchí06 at 9.00 p.m. in the Bridge Bar. Your support will be greatly appreciated. DEATH: Sincere sympathies are extended to Breda Reardon and family, Pound, Portmagee on the death of Breadaís brother recently. May he Rest In Peace. J.J. OíKELLY TALK: The talk on The Life of the Writer J.J. OíKelly (Sceilg) by Dr. Brian P. Murphy O.S.B. on Friday, 10th March has been cancelled because Dr. Brian P. Murphy has fallen ill. The talk will be re-arranged for a later date. HEALTH PROMOTION TRAINING 2006: A Course on Drug Awareness Training for Parents will be held in the OíConnell Centre, Cahersiveen on Friday, 10th March from 9.15 to 2.30 pm. If you are interested in the course, please phone 066 9472414 to book a place. The course is free of charge. Please note applicants will be on a first come first served basis. Light lunch will be provided. CHILDCARE ñ TAX INFORMATION: Would you like to mind children in your own home but have concerns about the tax implications? There will be a Tax Information Evening in Killorglin Rowing Clubhouse, The Bridge, Killorglin (near The Fishery) on Tuesday 14th Marchí06 at 7.00 p.m. A tax expert will be present to explain the new Childminding Tax Relief and to answer your queries. For more information please contact Claire OíToole, Childcare Development Officer, South Kerry Development Partnership, An tSean Scoil, Killorglin 066)9761615. IVERAGH FLOWER & GARDENING CLUB: The Iveragh & Gardening Club invites all interested in Organic Gardening and Polly Tunnels to there next meeting on Monday 13th Marchí06 at 8.00 p.m. in the OíConnell Centre, Cahersiveen. Admission Fee applies. SKELLIG RANGERS G.A.A.: The Lotto: Weekly results of the Skellig Rangers Lotto, for week 05/03/06. Lotto Jackpot was Ä225 and the numbers drawn were: 13, 15 & 22. There was no outright winner and the winners of the consolation prizes were: Ä30 Anne Kennedy, Kilkeveragh, Portmagee, Patrick OíSullivan, Ardcost, Portmagee and Ä20 John McCarthy, Doora, Portmagee. The Jackpot for next Sunday 12/03/06 will be Ä250. LOTTO ROTA: Rota for Sunday 12th March 2006: Vincent Page, Eugene Curran and Colm Martin. NEWS FROM THE PRO ñ John (Butter) OíLeary: South Kerry League: Skellig Rangers 1-12, St. Maryís 1-08. Played at Pairc Chill Imellagh on last Saturday. St. Maryís opened the scoring with a point in the first minute from Niall OíDriscoll followed in the 2nd and 3rd minute by 2 points from Austin Constable and Niall OíDriscoll, then in the 4th min Adrian Casey scored a great point for Skellig Rangers, which was closely follow by a goal for St. Maryís by Vinney Moriarty. Skellig Rangers scored again in the 10th minute with a point by Sean Courtney. In the 19th & 20th min 2 points were scored by St. Maryís Austin Constable and Adam Quirke. Sean Courtney scored another point for the Rangers and on the stroke of half-time a great goal by Adrian Casey who rose high to punch the ball to the back of the net. Half-time score; Skellig Rangers 1-03, St. Maryís 1-05. Skellig Rangers opened the scoring in the second half by a point from Stephen OíSullivan and after two minutes Austin Constable got a point back for St. Maryís. Then fro the 6th to the 16th minute Sean Courtney scored 4 points followed by 2 more points by Austin Constable then points for the Rangers from Aidan OíSullivan, Stephen OíSullivan and Wayne OíSullivan. Final score Skellig Rangers 1-12, Stí Maryís 1-08. TEAM: Michael Brennan, Patrick McGill, Wayne OíSullivan, Colm Martin, Colm OíConnell, Brian Hickey, Sean OíDriscoll, (Capt), Paul McGill, Chris OíDriscoll, Declan OíLeary, Stephen OíSullivan, Aidan OíSullivan, Declan Keating, Adrian Casey and Sean Courtney. Subs: Garry OíDriscoll for Declan OíLeary. Man of The Match: Sean Courtney. NEXT MATCH: Skellig Rangers play Derrynane on next Saturday 11th March at 1.30 pm. again at Pairc Chill Imellagh. COACHING SKILLS: Fun Games for all the South Kerry Under Age Coaches will be held on next Monday evening 13th Marchí06 in the Portmagee Community Centre from 7.30 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. All coaches are welcome to attend. Any queries please contact Sarah OíConnor @ 087-7613107. Referee Training: A meeting will be held at the Community Centre on Friday 10th March at 9.00 p.m. The Club has to nominate a person who may be willing to train as a referee. As and from 01/06/06 if no names are forth coming the Club will loose valuable points in the Co. League, these points could be the difference between promotion or relegation at the end of the year. Surely there is someone in the Community who has a genuine interest in the Club and who are willing to assist on this matter. This meeting will be followed by a very important issue regarding Health & Safety. HEALTH & SAFETY: Each area in South Kerry are now contemplating the purchase of a Defibrillator for their own community. A discussion will be held on Friday night regarding the training of personnel, cost and location of the machine. This machine can be transported to Matches, Regattas etc. It is imperative that this machine is installed in the area as it may save lives in the future. It is essential that people from the community and a representative from each group in the area attend this meeting so that a proper discussion may take place. BIG DRAW: Results of the January draw: Mini Breaks: Daniel & Cian OíSullivan, Reencaheragh, Portmagee. Cavan Crystal Brandy Glasses: Bob Casey, Accountant, Church St., Tralee and Seamus & Breda OíSullivan, 6 OíConnell St., Cahersiveen. Cavan Crystal Champagne Flutes: Maureen Murphy, Optician, 2 Market St., Cahersiveen and Valerie Mackey, Cois Uisce, Cahersiveen. Framed Mirrors: Marian OíDriscoll, Kilkeveragh, Portmagee. Babs Sheahan, The Square, Killorglin. Eileen Casey, Portmagee Village. Ricky Grogan, Daly City, California, USA (c/o Johnny Brennan). Peggy OíShea, 13 St. Joseph Tec., Cahersiveen. John and Noreen McGill, Ardcost, Portmagee. Michael Kennedy, 326 Kilburn Lane, London. Keith Moran, Waterville and John Clifford, 6 Valentia Rd., Cahersiveen. Framed Pictures: Ulick Walsh, Currow, Killarney. Timothy Corcoran, Ardcost Lower, Portmagee. Delpac Ltd., Ballinskelligs. Kevin OíLeary, c/o Tubs & Tiles, The Horgan Centre, Tralee. Gerard McCarthy, c/o McCarthy Insurance, Cahersiveen. Paddy OíLeary, Aghadda, Portmagee. Patrick & Eileen OíShea, Church St., Cahersiveen and Thomas Shanahan, Portmagee Village. Renard SENIORS: A dominant first half performance paved the way for victory for Renard in this third round South Kerry league game against Derrynane, played in Renard on Saturday last. Renard raced into an early three point lead thanks to points from Liam O'Sullivan, Cian McCrohan and a Stephen O'Sullivan free. However, Derrynane struck back after twelve minutes with a goal from mid-fieldier Declan Gleeson. However, Renard quickly regained their composure and added further points with three from Liam O'Sullivan, two from John Sugrue and one each from Stephen Curran and Stephen O'Sullivan to lead by 10 points to one goal approaching half-time. Right on the stroke of half-time Liam O'Sullivan finished a five man Renard move to the net to leave the half-time score Renard 1-10, Derrynane 1-0. Derrynane came into the game much more in the second-half and had points from David Breen and Adrian Breen and two from Donal Galvin. However, despite these scores Renard never looked in danger and had points from Liam O'Sullivan, Stephen O'Sullivan, Kieran O'Sullivan and Paul O'Sullivan to run out comfortable winners on a final score of Renard 1-14, Derrynane 1-4. Renard's next game is this coming weekend when they take on South Kerry champions Valentia in their final game in the group stages of the South Kerry league. CLUB DRAW: The January and February draws in the club's fundraising raffle took place recently in The Town House. For the January draw, first prize of ?300 was won by Tim O'Connell The Harp; second prize of ?100 was won by Tony McCarthy Marion Place while the third prize of ?50 went to Michael Clifford Ballard. In the February draw, first prize went to Tommy Murphy Laharn South, second prize went to Jimmy Sugrue Ohermong while the third prize was won by Eugene O'Sullivan Iveragh Turf Co-Op. Thanks to all who have supported the draw. The next draw will take place at the end of March. TEXT ALERT: Recently the Reenard GAA club has launched a Text Alert system to club members and players to promote and encourage club activity. To promote this service a limited number of text messages are being made available to non-members, past players and friends of Reenard GAA. At first these messages will be available free of charge but in the longer term, 6-12 months, a nominal charge may apply to members and non-members alike. If you are not getting the Text Alert right now and would like to see what this service might offer you then simply send your mobile number with your name and address to 0879486802. To any sponsors who might be interested in reaching a local audience we also invite you to evaluate this service with a view to financial support. Sneem GAA NEWS The senior team traveled to Dromod on Saturday afternoon last to take on Dromod Pearses in the third round of the South Kerry league. A win was needed in ths game in order to earn a playoff for a place in the semi final of the competition. Following a tense and sometimes very physical game Dromod Pearses finally edged us out by the narrowest of margins. The score was Dromod Pearses 0-10; Sneem 1-6. The next outing for the senior team will be on Sunday, 19th March, when we travel to Ballinskelligs to take on St. Michaels/Foilmore in the first round of the County League Division 2. Training continues of Friday at 8:30pm, Saturday afternoon at a time to be decided,, and Tuesday at 8pm. The Ladies team did not have any game over last weekend. On Sunday next they travel to Churchill to take on the locals in the Pat Lawlor 11 aside tournament. A further reminder that club membership is now payable by all officials and players and anybody outside of this group who wish to become paid up members of the club. The club committee has already decided that only fully paid up members will be entitled to be entered in draws for Munster and All Ireland tickets. Membership will be accepted by the Chairman, Secretary, or Treasurer of the club. CHILDMINDERS -Tax information for Childminders. Would you like to mind children in your own home but have concerns about the tax implications? There will be a Tax Information Evening Killorglin Rowing Clubhouse, The Bridge, Killorglin (near The Fishery) on Tuesday, 14th March 2006, at 7:00pm. A tax expert will be present to explain the new Childminding Tax Relief and to anwser your queries. For more information please contact Claire O'Toole, Childcare Development Officer, South Kerry Development Partnership, An t-Sean Scoil, Killorglin. (066)9761615. GAA LOTTO 5/3/06 2,300.00 - 6/8/14/17 No winner. 40.00 euro consolation prizes: Edel O'Leary-Bohocogram, Jim O'Sulllivan-Convent House, Jim O'Shea-North Square. Connie Clifford-Bollanonove. Next Draw 12/3/06 at the Restler's Inn. Jackpot 2,450.00 euro. SNEEM RESOURCE CENTRE open Monday - Friday 10am - 2pm. Internet access, fax, photocopies, library, nearly new clothes and books for sale. Drop in centre. Spa SCOR: The Spa Groups that will compete in the County Scór Sínsear finals at The Gleneagle on this Sunday 12th March 7:00 p.m. are: - Solo-Singing – Cíara O’Donovan Ballad Group – Kieran Ryan, Aileen Griffin, Donagh O’Connor, Kate Curran and Maireád Mangan. Set Dancing – Triona Mangan, Mairead Mangan, Patricia Moynihan, Maureen Hegarty, Eóin Cronin, Denis Cronin, John Riney and Micheal O’Rourke. CROKE PARK - The Set Dancing Group has been invited to perform during the interval at the All-Ireland Club Championship finals in Croke Park on St. Patrick’s Day. We wish them every success. GAA FIXTURES - Senior East Kerry League Spa -V- Kilcummin, play at Kilcummin on Sunday 12th March at 2:30 p.m. Senior County League Spa -V- Dingle, play at Dingle on Sunday 19th March at 2:30 p.m. MEMBERSHIP - GAA Club registrar Gerard Mangan will be in attendance at The Clubhouse on Friday nights 8:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. for the purpose of collecting club membership now due for renewal. Adult Membership ?25, and Juvenile ?10. OFFICIAL OPENING - A full list of activities are being organised to mark the official opening of the GAA Club Sports Hall and Clubhouse by President Sean Kelly and Minister for Arts, Sports and Tourism John O’Donoghue. A number of other dignitaries will also be in attendance. The club will produce a special publication which will contain details of various stages of this development. COMMUNITY GAMES - The following are the results of the SPA/Muckross Community Games Arts Competition:- Boys U-8:- 1st Daniel O’Connor 2nd Oran Coffey Girls U-8:- 1st Áine O’Sullivan 2nd Ada Fleming Boys U-10:- 1st Alexander Bruggener 2nd Billy Courtney Girls U-10:- 1st Kara O’Connor 2nd Naomi Farrell Boys U-12:- 1st Christopher Buckley 2nd Jacob O’Keeffe Girls U-12:- 1st Kayleigh McKenna 2nd Ellen O’Sullivan Boys U-14:- 1st Kevin Joy 2nd Shane Hickey Girls U-14:- 1st Michelle Horan 2nd Niamh Hussey The above named now go forward to the County Final at The Convent School Grenville, Listowel on this Saturday, March 11 at 1pm. ATHLETICS - Congratulations to Emer Tangney, St Brigids and SPA/Muckross who figured among the medal winners at the All-Ireland Schools Cross Country competitions in Dublin on Saturday. This result has earned for a place on the Irish Schools Athletic Team who will participate at the S.I.A.B Cross Country Internationals in England on April 8th. HALL ROSTER - The following is the Stewarding Roster for Sports Hall commencing on Monday 13th March: - Patsy Cronin, Neily O’Mahony, Sean Moynihan, Pat Tangney, Liam Courtney, Jimmy O’Sullivan D’Arcy and Sean O’Sullivan. 31 DRIVES - Card drives continue in The Clubhouse on Tuesday nights 8:00 p.m. SYMPATHY - Sympathy is extended to families of former Dr.Crokes secretary Billy Duggan and former Legion and Killarney footballer Pat Adams whose untimely deaths at the weekend caused much regret in local GAA circles. Sympathy is also extended to Fintan Lawlor on the death of his father. May they rest in peace. RETIREMENT - Best wishes are extend to current Clubman and former SPA and East Kerry Board Secretary Denis Fenton who has retired from his position as Personnel Officer of the Southern Region Health Services Executive. St Michael’s / Foilmore ON Saturday in Ballinskelligs, St Michael’s / Foilmore defeated Waterville in round 3 of the South Kerry league on the scoreline of 1-6 to 0-6. As a result St Michael’s / Foilmore have now qualified for the semi-finals of the South Kerry league. It was another excellent performance as the team were missing a few players. There is a full report of the game in the South Kerry notes in the sports section. MEMBERSHIP . . . must be paid up by March 19. Only fully paid up members can be entered for tickets for the All-Ireland series. Thank you for your support as usual. CLUB JACKETS . . . can be purchased from club officers. SPEEDY RECOVERY . . . to Mark O’Sullivan who had an operation recently, we hope it won’t be too long until he is back on the playing fields again. Star of the Laune AC THE Club had a very successful day out at the County Indoor Track & Field championships in Tralee on Saturday. Competing in springs, hurdles, shot and relays, they brought home no less than 16 medals. These budding athletes included Linda Costello (3 medals), Aileen Crowley (4 medals), Niamh Clifford (2 medals), Michelle Costello (2 medals), Sarah Costelloe, Naoise Doherty, Emer Moore, Isabel Moore, Maedbh Johnston, Aoife Johnston, Mitchell O’Sullivan and Shane Murphy. Training continues every Saturday at 11.30am at the intermediate school. AGM: The Agm of the Club was held recently. The following officers were elected: Chairman - Anthony Dennehy; Vice chairman - Batt O’Connor; Secretary (meeting) - Mossie Kelliher; Secretary (organising) - Michael Mangan; Treasurer - Alice O’Shea; Pro - Anne Mangan; Committee - Mary Carey, Michael Costelloe, Ian Rafferty. 
