sport gaa
{  
    April 14 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-60m-finance-game-that-everybody-lost-26248131.html }
The GAA cash debacle has left Bertie Ahern's sporting dream in danger, says Jerome Reilly ON the eve of the GAA congress, Tanaiste Mary Harney got a phone call from Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy to tell her what Fianna Fáil had been up to with the GAA. That call, late on Friday April 6, was in the nick of time, 90 minutes before GAA president Sean McCague confirmed the association was to receive £60m and had agreed to play some games in Stadium Ireland. Ms Harney had been out of the Government loop following the death of her father on April 1, and the casual phone contact dealt with a number of issues. The GAA mega-deal was merely mentioned en passant. Ms Harney did have one question. "Well, I presume this deal is dependent on the GAA opening up their grounds to other games?" she asked. Ms Harney's presumption was ill-founded. No such agreement had been reached nor had it been sought. The PD leader hit the roof, and was as angry as she has ever been since the foundation of the partnership. Both personally and politically, she had been sidelined once again, as Bertie continued his solo run. The curious vote only intensified her anger. One rushed show of hands; no recount. It looked suspiciously like a return to the worst days of vote manipulation in New York's Tammany Hall where shady dealings were neatly summed up by the adage: "Never write it if you can speak; never speak if you can nod; never nod if you can wink." Final elements of the sweetheart deal had been agreed some four days before the GAA annual congress and sealed during direct contacts between McCague, Ahern, McCreevy and Sports Minister Jim McDaid. It was designed to secure the short-term financial viability of the Stadium Ireland project, but instead it exploded like a pipe bomb. Bertie's Bowl in Abbotstown may now never be built, his personal relationship with Mary Harney is critically injured and the increasingly uneasy alliance between Fianna Fáil and the Progressive Democrats lies severely damaged. Time was running out for both the GAA and Fianna Fáil wing of Government as the negotiations neared endgame. Throwing open the gates of Croke Park to soccer and rugby was not a major issue though Mr Ahern is broadly in favour of opening up GAA grounds to other sports in the long term. But at this juncture such a decision would not have suited his short-term aim of making Stadium Ireland a certainty. In fact, it would have called into question the entire viability of the project. If Croker were able to host six international rugby and soccer matches a year, there would be absolutely no justification for Abbotstown. In any event, during the two weeks before congress most commentators felt the Roscommon (Kilmore GAA) motion to open up Croke Park would not get the two-thirds majority required. Bertie was determined to conclude the agreement because he wants Stadium Ireland to be built even if electoral disaster befalls Fianna Fáil next year or a potential partner in the next Government decides to scupper Stadium Ireland as a prerequisite to joining an FF-led coalition. To ensure the grandiose £1bn project became a fait accompli, it was time to copperfasten the legal and contractual details so the project could not be torpedoed without enormous financial penalties. According to Bertie's timetable, that meant a deal with an internationally respected stadium operator had to be signed, sealed and delivered before the end of the year. To this end the FAI and the IRFU were already on board as anchor tenants at a combined cost to the taxpayer of some £100m in "hello money", while the nod from the GAA was icing on the cake. The clock was also ticking for Sean McCague who needed the approval of Central Council to keep up their end of the £60m bargain. What really surprised the GAA side was how easy it had all been. Though it felt it deserved every penny of the £60m, that didn't mean it honestly expected to get all of it. It had pointed out that it was the premier sporting organisation in the country, with more than 20,000 teams and one million members drawn from every village in the Republic, as well as being a mainstay of nationalist communities in the North. The GAA stressed that it had already bitten the bullet by rebuilding Croke Park on its own initiative, provided a safe world-class venue for some 76 Gaelic games per annum and paid direct and indirect taxes of some £40m. It may also have pointed out that the IRFU would still have Lansdowne Road, worth hundreds of millions in pure real-estate terms alone, while the FAI had been rewarded for cocking up its own Eircom Park project. An organisation left with considerable question marks over its administrative abilities, the FAI had secured a multi-million-pound investment package. While the nitty-gritty of the Government/GAA pact was being ironed out, Mary Harney was blissfully unaware of how much taxpayers' money was being lavished on Croke Park. She believed it was a provocative and deliberate snub. In June 2000, the general council of the Progressive Democrats had overwhelmingly opposed the national stadium with Ms Harney stating that while she disagreed with the project, partnership required compromise and a "trade-off" was required to counterbalance PD demands for improved old-age pensions and tax cuts. THIS was at the time when the stated cost of the project was some £230m and before it emerged that financial projections clearly showed the project would cost closer to £1bn, not including the commitments to the FAI and GAA which will add nearly £200m to the cost. Last week, Mr Ahern was forced to mumble an unconvincing apology to the Tanaiste, though it hasn't quelled PD unrest. Nevertheless, by blowing her top, the Tanaiste has secured two important agreements from her Government partners which could sound the death knell of Stadium Ireland. Firstly, a memorandum will be supplied to her detailing the financial arrangements being made with the GAA, FAI and IRFU arising from their agreement to use Stadium Ireland. Secondly, and more importantly, it's been agreed to carry out an "external overview of the Stadium Ireland", including the cost implication and ancillary costs, such as access infrastructure as well as ongoing operating costs. This study could reveal some alarming news for the taxpayer and give the PDs the ammunition and moral leverage to renege on their "trade-off" with Fianna Fáil. It may at least ensure that it will be the next Government who will decide if the country can afford the Bertie bowl. However, nobody has come out of this debacle a winner. The GAA loaded the gun for their bigoted critics who have been taking pot-shots all week, Bertie stands accused of Haugheyesque duplicity while Mary Harney and the PDs can ill afford to alienate voters whose first love is Gaelic games. 
