sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny<br>Breheny Beat 
    October 12 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/breheny-beat-gaa-hold-aces-in-latest-game-of-croker-cat-and-mouse-25892661.html }
NEVER in the decade-old debate as to whether a re-developed Croke Park should be opened for international rugby and soccer has there been a better time to have an opinion on the subject. The All-Ireland championships are over, the International Rules series is a two-Sunday wonder, leaving the GAA community to drift towards winter alongside the provincial clubs championship which, for all their local fascinations, don't dominate the national agenda. Thank God then for the great Croke Park dilemma embracing, as it does, a gritty mixture of ideology, principle, politics, history and money. It's the liveliest sporting topic in and out of town as the rival camps assess their weaponry, plan strategy and prepare for intense battle. Just about everybody has a view on the issue, ranging from the more entrenched wing of GAA opinion which would prefer to see the stadium burned rather than opened up all the way across to the equally illogical anti-GAA brigade who somehow believe that other sports organisations have an automatic right to be rewarded for their inertia by being handed the keys to Croke Park. The one party to remain silent so far is, perhaps, the most important of all - money. It has kept very private counsel but have no doubt that ultimately it will be hugely influential. In fact, I predict that it will lead to a very serious row. Here's why. Those who assumed that the Government's ?40m grant for Croke Park which was announced two weeks ago is the final instalment from State funds are almost certainly wrong. It was merely keeping a promise entered into with the GAA in 2001 and came without strings attached. Now to the next scenario. The Government offers the GAA another ?50m in return for declaring Croke Park available for soccer and rugby internationals. That would bring total State investment in Croke Park to ?160m. A generous amount, admittedly, but still more than ?30m less than what's promised towards the re-development of a much smaller Lansdowne Road. The GAA is then left facing a choice of effectively having the Government wipe out the Croke Park debt in return for lifting the restriction on the use of the stadium. It's an enticing prospect as it would free up a massive amount of GAA cash for the many projects and challenges it faces over the next decade. Let's suppose for a moment that after an emotionally-charged debate and all the usual soul-searching, Rule 42 is amended and Croke Park opens for rent to other sports. Now that's when the real intrigue begins. Assuming that planning permission for a Lansdowne Road is granted (that's not a good bet by the way), the IRFU and the FAI need a home for their international matches so they ring the GAA. "You've a lovely ground over there, any chance we can rent it for match X? Otherwise, we will have to play in Britain." "Of course you can have it. We're delighted to be able to help you. So what have you in mind then? "Sorry"? "The rent. How much are you prepared to pay to use Croke Park?" Now that's when the biggest row of all sets in because quite rightly the GAA will seek to maximise their earnings for renting a stadium to their competitors. The IRFU or FAI may not have thought that far down the line as yet but they should because Croke Park won't come cheap. In fact, it will be extremely expensive. Even with the dearest Lansdowne Road tickets costing ?70, a full house is incapable of returning more than ?2m in gate receipts. That contrasts with Croke Park, which, using the same pricing structure, would generate around ?5m. That's exclusive of the corporate boxes which, for major rugby and soccer games could be sold at massive prices. It's likely that the total gate receipts from an Ireland v England rugby international would be around ?6m at Croke Park as opposed to ?2m at Lansdowne Road. That's a massive difference but who benefits from the extra money? If the GAA charged 20% of the gross income in rent, they would earn ?1.2m, leaving the IRFU with ?4.8m, from which they would have to pay all the expenses of running the game. They would still be left with a whole lot more than their returns from Lansdowne Road. And that's a problem for the GAA which is in opposition to rugby and soccer for the hearts and minds of young and old alike in Ireland. They have to do so from a disadvantaged position, given that soccer and rugby are international sports, which carry enormous marketing influence. The GAA knows what the IRFU and FAI can earn from games in Lansdowne Road and can also estimate what a switch to Croke Park would generate. So I have no doubt that when (as opposed to if) the restrictions on the use of Croke Park are eased, both the IRFU and the FAI are in for a real shock when they discover how much the GAA will demand in rent money. It's a battle the GAA can't lose. Instead of depending on a spurious ideology that belongs to another era, they would be fighting their corner in stark business terms. Their sole brief (actually an obligation) would be to extract as much as possible in rent money to use in the promotion, marketing and development of their owngames. Through their own negligence, neither the IRFU nor FAI are in a very strong bargaining position on stadium matters so it could turn into a real bonanza for the GAA who, once they make the big decision to open Croke Park, will be holding a hand of aces. That's always assuming of course that they don't allow the myopic minority from within their own ranks to direct them into another dreary cul-de-sac in the Rule 42 debate. 
