sport gaa
{  
    June 01 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27359530.html }
DEATH: Sympathy is extended to the family, relatives and friends of Mrs. Bridget Reidy, Ballymacquim who died recently.G.A.A. Our Intermediate team was defeated by Dr. Crokes in Co. League in Killarney on Wednesday. Score 1-13 to 0-11. Team  S.Croinin, B.O'Leary, 0-3, G.Maunsell, D.Fahey, M.Leahy, W.O'Leary, D.Lawlor, E.Egan 0-1, M.O'Callaghan, D.Doyle 0-2, D.O'Connell 0-1, DEATH: Sympathy is extended to the family, relatives and friends of Mrs. Bridget Reidy, Ballymacquim who died recently. G.A.A. Our Intermediate team was defeated by Dr. Crokes in Co. League in Killarney on Wednesday. Score 1-13 to 0-11. Team S.Croinin, B.O'Leary, 0-3, G.Maunsell, D.Fahey, M.Leahy, W.O'Leary, D.Lawlor, E.Egan 0-1, M.O'Callaghan, D.Doyle 0-2, D.O'Connell 0-1, C.O'Brien, H.O'Connell, B.Maunsell, J.McCarthy 0-4. Subs F.Roche for C.O'Brien, P.Dineen for M.O'Callaghan. U-11 OUR u-11 beat Duagh in N.K. Championship in Duagh on Thurs. evening Score 5-11 to 1-3.Team J.P.Byrne, J.Shanahan, R.Freeman, A.Conway, C.Freeman, C.Dowling, W.O'Leary, M.O'Leary 3-11, E.Guerin, C.McCarthy 1-0, S.O'Sullivan 1-0, T.Kearney, W.Colbert, A.Rigney, D.Egan. Subs D.O'Connor, C.Donovan, N.Mahony, D.Murphy, C.McCarthy, A.Buckley. BORD na nOG: A very important meeting of Bord na nOg will be held on Thursday June 1st at 9p.m. to make arrangements for Blitz on Monday. It is vitally important that all parents of U-12 team attend. Fixtures: U-12 North Kerry Blitz Mon. June 5th commencing at 10.30 a.m. in Sportsfield. U-12 Co.League v Dr. Crokes Friday June 2nd 7p.m. home. U-11 North Kerry Championship v Causeway Wed May 31st 6.30 p.m. away. MUSIC in the complex this Sunday night by Cool Effects. McElligott's Bar The winner of the weekly poker classic on Wed night was John Donovan. Sun night Tom Moriarty. The winners of 41 CardDrive on Sat night was a two way divide between Gerry & Gretta Doyle and Jer. Lawlor and Peggy Carroll. Abbeydorney Parish Hall & Community Centre Building Fund Members Lotto Draw. Results 28 / 5 / 2006. Numbers Drawn. 2 - 14 -19 - 26. No Jackpot Winner. Consolation Prizes ?25 -Ger McCarthy, Lisenearla. ?25 - Sonny Egan, Garrynagnore. Spot Prizes Frank O'Connor, Rathscannell. James Dillon , Riverside. Names for ?500 Mini Jackpot. Mike Mahony, Rathkenny. Brendan Healy, Killahan. Niamh McKenna, Ballinclogher. Next Draw Sunday June 4th - McElligotts Bar - Jackpot ?8200. AbbeyFlynn Youth Club - There is a trip to Dublin Zoo on 22nd June. Members are to be at the train station at 6.15 a.m. and will arrive back in Tralee at 10.30 p.m. that evening. Cost is ?30 per person. A sponsered walk is planned on the 4th June at 12 noon on Banna Beach. Those that sell a card and attend the walk will not have to pay for the trip. Money for the trip, sponsor cards and money to be collected Friday 2nd June in the Community Centre. Parents are expected to attend between 7-8 p.m. to sign consent forms. These forms have to be signed. CAMOGIE: Camogie training continues on Wednesday evenings from 7 to 8 pm in Lixnaw GAA Pitch. It is vitally important taht each girl has their own helemt and hurley and is registerd with the club. Please bring one euro with you each Wednesday night. The blitz has been rescheduled for Sunday June 11th at Causeway. Please check next weeks notes for further details. COURSING CLUB: Due to a bereavement, the annual general meeting of the Abbeydorney Coursing Club will now take place on Wednesday, May 31 at 9pm sharp in the Community Hall. Abbeyfeale A sponsored walk in aid of Our Lady‚s Hospital for Sick Children will take place on Sunday 4th June at 2pm. The walkers will leave The Square and walk along the old railway line. There will be a gathering afterwards in O‚Sullivan‚s bar with soup, sandwiches, spot prizes, etc. KNOCK - The local Legion of Mary travel to Knock on Sunday next 4th June. Further details from Peg Murphy at 068-31232 or Sean Broderick at 068-31213. RADIO - West Limerick Community Radio celebrated its first birthday last weekend and held an Open Day at the station to mark the occasion. It now broadcasts regularly from its studio in Abbeyfeale. DISCUS - Karen O‚Connor of Brosna, representing St Joseph‚s Secondary School, created a sensational result when she won the Senior Discus at the CIT Cork track last week. Karen also won the silver medal in the shot putt competition to finish off a superb day for the Abbeyfeale student. She has now qualified for the the All Ireland Schools Championships in Tullamore next month. She is wished the very best of luck. AGM - The AGM of Abbeyfeale Utd FC takes place at Riverside Park on Wednesday 7th June a 8pm. Abbeyfeale Utd B are the new division 2 champions. BASKETBALL - St Joseph‚s, Abbeyfeale secured victory in the All Ireland B Basketball championships with a 43-23 win over Mount Temple in the final in Carlow. An Riocht Well done to all our athletes who competed in the Munster Masters Track & field c/ships on Sunday last here in our own track. Willie Reidy Michael O SullIvan Sile Kerley and Hannagh O Sullivan were our representatives, all of whom were among the medalists. In the boys u.18 combined events Paul Culloty was just edged out by Brendan O Sullivan of Beara after both finished on the same points. Paul lost out on countback. Maura Halpin was runner up in the girls u.19 having again displayed her great versatility over the five events. Best wishes to Laura Crowe, Laura O Reilly, Maura Halpin and Paul Culloty who have qualified for the All Ireland Schools T&F in Tullamore on Saturday next. L0TTO - The Riocht lotto will be on in Walshes Bar Knocknagoshel on this Friday night for a jackpot of 6,000 euros. Music will be by Breda Diamond Annascaul LOTTO: Results of draw on 22nd May 2006 8,10,24,25. Winners of the ?40 prizes were James Regan, C/o Brosnan‚s Bar; Eileen O‚ Driscoll, Camp; Anna O‚ Shea, Ballinvoher; Paddy Geaney, Barr na Sráide, Dingle; Hannah Mc Carthy, Annascaul. WHIST: Results form Wednesday 24th May. LADIES: 1st Bridie Lyne 2nd Dora Moriarty INTERVALS: 1st Margaret Whelehan 2nd Eilish Ashe GENTS: 1st Rory Moore 2nd Kathleen Begley INTERVALS: 1st John Mc Enery 2nd Michael O‚ Rourke MYSTERY: Joan Sayers and Betty Johnson RAFFLE: Michael O‚ Rourke, Martin Courtney, Mickey Murphy, Eileen Galvin. CHIROPODIST: Maureen Scannell will attend the health centre on Tuesday June 6th at 10a.m. I.C.A: The A.G.M of Annascaul I.C.A was held on Thursday May 18th. Out-going president Liz O‚ Leary thanked all the members for their hard work and dedication to the guild during what was a very productive and enjoyable year. Joanne Lenihan was unanimously elected the new president. A great day was had on Wednesday 24th May when the guild and friends went around the Ring of Kerry. The only black spot was the weather. We are now on our summer break and meetings will resume again on September 7th when new members will be very welcome. UNISLIM classes revert back to Wednesday nights at 8.00pm in the South Pole Ardfert ATHLETICS: Saturday last, the 27th of May was the date for the County Schools finals in Castleisland. The was a huge attendance at this event with athletes from schools all over Kerry. Many of our athletes competed on the day, the following are the results. Representing Ardfert NS. 2nd class boys 100m, Jimmy Shanahan silver, Iarla Courtney bronze. 3rd class boys 200m, Quinn Newsome Mc Donnell gold. 4th class boys 100m, Daniel Shanahan silver. 4th class boys 200m, Eoghan Courtney gold. 5th class girls 600m, Una Marley silver. 2nd class 4x100m relay Jimmy Shanahan, Finan Mackessey, Shane Lowth and Iarla Courtney gold. 4th class 4x100m relay Daniel Shanahan, Quinn Newsome Mc Donnell, Thomas Nolan and Eoghan Courtney gold. Those who also competed on the day were Ella Horgan representing Rathmorral NS, quailfied for the final, also making the final for Glenderry was Mark Dineen and for Kilmoyley was Daniel Lonergan. Representing Ballonagh school Kayleigh O Carroll won the bronze medal in the 4th class girls 100m. Competitiors also representing Ardfert Ns were Patrick O Sullivan, Owen Mc Elligott, Darragh Mc Garty, Aiden Healy Orla Casey Jane Sweeney and Darragh Dineen. All the children competed to a very high standard well done to all of them. Sunday was the Munster Master Championships we had one athlete competing on the day who claimed two gold medals. Patrick O Riordan won both the high jump and the long jump with personal bests in both events. Club training has now been handed over to community games on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, and we are on a break until the cross country season starts in September. However those athletes who will be competiing at Munsters will continue to train Wed evenings in Castleisland. Our open sports will be held next Monday the 5th of June in the Ardfert Gaa grounds at 1.30 pm we have a varied programme of events and enquiries to Theresa 087 4134468. TIDY TOWNS COMPETITION: Ardfert has entered the 2006 TidyTowns Competition. Please support our door-to-door fundraising in the next two weeks. Clean-ups continue on First Saturday of the month. Please come along. CILLARD CAMOGIE CLUB: Unfortunately our blitz had to be cancelled due to all of the bad weather over the last few weeks. The new date will be decided on shortly. Training for this week is on Thursday at 6:30 in Kilmoyley. Congratulations to Louise Flaherty,Maura Godley and Aoife Fitzgerald who are on the tag rugby team that won a well deserved Gold County medal, Sunday . GAA: St. Brendan’s Hurling Club; Fixtures and results; Div. 2A Hurling League Ballyheigue 6-14, St. Brendan’s 2-4. The North Kerry Senior Championship game v Abbeydorney will now take place on Friday evening June 9th. The U-14’s were defeated by Lixnaw last Friday evening on a score 4-5 to 2-2 in Co. League. Team panel Kevin Skinner, Kevin Orpen, Kevin Hannafin, Danial Slattery, Gearóid Silles, Seán Kearney, Danny Costello, Danial Foley, John Hussey, Micheál Nolan, Donal Mackessy, Danial Casey, Kieran Fitzgerald, David Griffin, Shane Lehane, Cian Hussey, Brian Fitzgerald, Cillian Wolff, Eamon O’Shea, Thomas Fitzgerald, David Fitzgerald. The U-11’s were successful in N. K. League defeating Lixnaw 4-7 to 2-3. Team panel; Ryan Delaney, Aoife Fitzgerald, Gearóid Sheehan, Ryan Duggan, James Lyne, Fionán Horgan, Pádraig Casey, Kevin Hannafin, Pádraig Kearney, Eoghan Courtney, Brendan O’Connor, Fionn Kavanagh, Darragh McGarty. Underage fixtures; U-11’s meet Kilmoyley in Kilmoyley this Wednesday at 6.30pm. U-12’s meet Lixnaw at 7pm on Friday night. Please check with team mentors re venues etc. The U12 ground hurling blitz will take place in Lixnaw on Bank Holiday Monday June 5th at 10.30am. Ardfert N. S. Mini-7’s hurling team travelled to Nemo Rangers grounds in Cork last Friday and played three games meeting teams from Cork which they won 2-4 to 2-1, narrowly lost to Tipperary 2-10 to 4-3, and lost to Waterford 3-7 to 1-3. The players were very impressive against some very tough opposition. Congratulations to all involved and to all who made the effort to travel to Cork. Congratulations to hurler and footballer Alan Kelly, Turbid, who was recently chosen as Hurler of the Year from Christian Brothers School, Tralee. Alan is doing his Leaving Certificate this year and the award was presented at the school awards night. The GAA Development Squad training began on Saturday last in Ballyloughran House where some underage hurlers from all the clubs will be given specialised training over a period of months. The Development Management was full of praise for the players and coaches attending. The chosen players are asked to give a commitment to be at all training days and be available for games etc. We hope they will all benefit from the experience. New replica short sleeve St. Brendan’s jerseys will be on sale at the Sportsfield on Saturday morning at the U-8 & U-10 training. The 10-11 age jersey costs ?30 and the 13-14 size costs ?35. They can also be bought from Niall Horgan c/o Centra. The GAA Development Lotto continues every week with the Draw held on Tuesday nights, rotating between Kate Browne’s, Abbey Tavern and McElligott’s. Tickets are on sale in shops and from Club Officers at ?2. Minimum Jackpot of ?1000, and consolation prizes if the Jackpot is not won. See posters on display in shops. We would like to send our sympathies to Mary and Paddy O’Connor, West Commons, on the recent death of Mary’s mother. Please note that Hurling Club membership lists will be finalised shortly and only fully paid up and registered members will be entitled to vote at AGM and be included in draws for All-Ireland tickets. Juvenile Registrar is Helen Hannafin and Senior Registrar is Siobhan Hussey and membership forms are available from them. Rates are; U8 & U 10 players ?15, U 11 to minor ?20, Adult player ?40, Student rate ?25. COMMUNITY CENTRE: The Indoor Market continues every Sunday from 11-2pm with a variety of goods for sale and the book sale runs in conjunction with the market. Last Sunday the proceeds of the sale and the chocolate sale were in aid of the work of Sr. Consilio. Thanks to all who supported the charity. Opening hours for Ardfert Community Centre Laundry 9am-1.30pm Monday –Friday. Price list on display in Laundry and an ironing service is also now available for clients. Gym opening hours are 10-2pm Monday-Friday, 5-9pm Monday-Thursday with 5-8pm on Fridays. The Senior Citizens meet every Tuesday from 11-2pm, for chat, fun and friendship, exercises, music, and also enjoy a hot cooked dinner served to them by a voluntary committee. The plans are being made at the moment for the Summer Camps during July and August, and registration forms will be circulated to the school. Ardfert Community Centre is now in a position to have staff available for small home maintenance jobs, and gardening etc. For enquiries for any of the services please call to the Community Centre or contact 7134066 /7134067. We would like to wish Mrs. Rita Hoare, Ardfert village a speedy recovery as she is at present a patient at Kerry General Hospital. THE GAA lotto draw took place in the Abbey Tavern. Numbers drawn were 10, 23, 27, 17. There was no winner. Prizewinners: ?75, Joe Doyle, Barrow; ?30 each — Eileen McCarthy, North Commons, Ardfert; Brendan McCarthy, Carrahane, Ardfert; Paula McCarthy, North Commons, Ardfert; Kathleen O’Connor, Casement’s View, Ardfert. The Independent Observer was Martin Casey, Banna. Next week’s draw takes place in McElligott’s. FOOTBALL: In round 2 of the county junior league we had a 1-16 t 0-10 win over Currow. A Darren Wallace goal in the first half helped us to a 1-10 to 0-3 interval lead. The second half saw us control matters and run out easy winners in the end. This Friday night we are away to Ballymac. Our seniors are back in action this weekend with an away game in Dingle on Sunday at 2.30pm. Congratulations to Stephen Wallace on his performance with the Kerry juniors in Fitzgerald Stadium and to Brendan O’Leary who represented our National School on the Kerry NS team against Waterford also in Fitzgerald Stadium. ARDFERT / KILMOYLEY COMMUNITY GAMES: First and foremost, this week, we must congratulate our judo competitors who did us proud on Thursday week. Aine O’Connor won gold and now goes forward to represent club and county in the Munster semi-finals in July. In the same competition Aoife Fitzgerald and Aidan Healy got silver while Lorna O’Sullivan and Jack Nevalainen won bronze. Well done to all who competed. Sunday was a busy day for the youngsters, with the tag rugby and gymnastics in Tralee. In the gymnastics we had three competing — Orlaith Casey, Maire Crowley and Rachel Murphy. All performed brilliantly, but unfortunately were outside the medals. In Tralee Rugby club grounds, the tag rugby was on. Here the lads and lassies were hoping to retain their title. In their group were Firies, whom they beat 13-6 and Spa / Muckross whom they beat 10-9. They then went on to play Marian Park / Manor in the final. After a very hard nailbiting game they came out on top on a scoreline of 11-9. Team: Aoife Fitzgerald, Maura Godley, Louise O’Flaherty, Eoghan Courtney, Kevin Shanahan, Gerard Sheehan, Thomas Nolan, Jimmy Shanahan, Iarla Courtney, Daire McGarty, Aidan Healy, Padraic Godley. They now go to the Munster finals in July. Well done to both Brendan Courtney and Mike Shanahan for all the hard work they have put in over the last couple of weeks. RETREAT CENTRE: Members of Listowel Adoration Group and friends will be with us at the Retreat Centre, June 8 for an evening of prayer and reflection 8-10pm. Other adoration groups are welcome to join. There are a few vacancies on our Poetry Retreat, June 25 to 30, all are welcome, published poets and those who are novices at the craft. Booking telephone (066) 7134276. Asdee The Asdee area is renowned for its great appetite for sport and down through the decades some local sporting stars have gone on to win national accolades in various sporting disciplines. Last weekend a well known Kilcolman girl made the sporting headlines when she was chosen as Sports Person of the Year at the annual Vetinery College Awards at University College Dublin. Moira Mc Elligott won the award for his proficiency of a number of sports. Moira was a very good Gaelic footballer in her younger teenage years and has gone on to make a name for herself in show jumping and also at taekwondo and kick boxing. She has won numerous awards in taekwondo and last year and also competed in events in Europe. Eldest daughter of Eamon and Esther Mc Elligott Moira was surprised to be chosen for the award but was pleased as it was ample recognition of her great prowess in a number of sports. Moira is a first year student at the vetinary college and when her studies are completed is looking forward to her career as a vetinary surgeon. As well as her winning trophy Moira was also presented with a cheque for ?250. All her relatives and friends in the area congratulate her on her achievement and wish her the very best of luck in her studies, CHILDCARE - Listowel Community Centre require 2 childcare Workers part - time, Tuesday and Thursday mornings, Fetec Level 5 and First Aid certificate essential. Contact Donal O Sullivan or Phil O Connell at (068) 22244 or (068) 22203 for further details. Spin and Tone Class continues at the centre on Thursday nights at 7pm. Pay as you go only ?10 per class. A Tuesday night Spin & Weights Class is also available paid in advance for remaining classes. contact (068) 22203 for details. TRIATHLON - Locals are asked to support Phil O Connell and Josephine Mc Cathy who are competing in the Chicago Triathlon in August. Both are training instructors at The Listowel Gym and Leisure Centre and the proceeds of their adventure in the United States is going to Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children Crumlin, Dublin. Phil and Josephine are now engaged in a rigorous training schedule for the next couple of months as the Triathlon will involve running, cycling and swimming. Sponsorship cards are now widely in circulation so dig into your purses and pockets and support this very worthy cause. HELEN HITS THE BIG 40 - The party hats were out in the townland of Craughdarrig on Friday night when one of the most popular ladies in the area reached a momentous milestone in her life. Helen Russel had nothing out of the ordinary planned to mark the special occasion but her husband John and family were plotting behind the scenes and organised a big bash to mark the occasion. John himself was caught by a surprise party to mark his 40th birthday a few weeks ago and he was glad to have an opportunity to get one back at his other half. The Store Bar in Craughdarrig was the venue for the night of celebration and family and friends from far and wide were invited to join in the festivities. Live musical entertainment was also on the menu as well as lashings of all kinds of tasty food. Helen got a big surprise when she entered the door with everyone lying in wait to wishing her a happy birthday. The whole event turned into a very enjoyable social occasion. When all the food was demolished revellers took to the floor to some of the best sounds of the 1970's and 80's. Silence prevailed as the big birthday cake was taken out and the big celebrity was given a rousing reception as she extinguished the candles. VIDEO RACE NIGHT - A charity Video Race Night will be held at The Highfielder Bar in Ballylongford on this Sunday night June 4th with the proceeds in aid of the Tsunami Orphanage Appeal Fund. A very appealing programme of racing has been lined up and with Liam Purtill in the commentary box a night of top class entertainment is guaranteed. The first race commences at 9pm and good local support for this worthy cause would be appreciated. ST PIO PRAYER MEETING - The local St. Pio prayer Group will hold their monthly Prayer Meeting at St. Mary's Church on this Thursday evening June 1st at 7pm followed by Mass at 8pm. ASDEE RACE DANCE - Everyone will be getting out the handbags and glad rags this Friday night June 2nd for the annual Asdee Race Committee annual dance which will be held at The Golf Hotel in Ballybunion. Now regarded as one of the best night's out of the year a great nights entertainment has been lined up with music by the Eddie Lee Band to be followed by a rousing night of hits from the charts with the Disco. There will be loads of very good spot prizes to be given on the night. Members of the race committee have been burning the midnight oil over the last couple of weeks as they have been out promoting tickets sales and calling to all houses in the area. On their travels to date they have been receiving a very enthusiastic response and they will continue selling tickets right up to Friday night. The Asdee Races were revived 4 years ago after a lapse of 30 years and they have since developed into a highly successful annual event that brings out the local community in very large numbers to the seaside course on the beautiful Littor Strand. The Race Committee has prided itself on the fine programme of racing they provide every year and the very good prize money that is up for grabs. Like any event of this nature a substantial financial outlay is necessary to maintain the appeal of the event so fund - raising activities always top of the priority list. Therefore it is most important that the community lends their full support to the forthcoming dance so even if you are unable to make it to the dance buy a ticket and lend your support for the continued success of the Asdee Races. Tickets are now widely on sale priced ?5 which is excellent for money and good local support would be appreciated. The Races are now the top sporting and social event on the local calendar and they will be staged again this year in October. WEBSITE - The new Asdee Rovers Website is going down very well and has received a huge amount of hits in recent weeks. It carries all the news on the clubs fixtures and results as well as some revealing photos which are updated on a regular basis. The website also gives exiles of the area and local people living in other parts of the country an opportunity to play the club's weekly Lotto. To play in the lotto all you have to do is send ?50 for six months or ?100 for 12 months and 4 numbers between 1 and 24 and you can be in the draw every week which offers a very substantial Jackpot. The Asdee Notes are now also online every week so pass on the news to family and relatives overseas. You can access at Website at www.north kerry,ie and click on the Asdee Rovers icon on the right hand side of the homepage. COMMUNITY GAMES - The spirit and enthusiasm of the community games is very much alive in the parish with a big turnout of children and parents for the annual Community games athletics events which were staged recently at the sports field in Ballylongford. Weather conditions were reasonably good for the great sporting occasion and a great atmosphere prevailed in the build up to the opening event. Arrangements for the evening were again very competently handled with the organising committee leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that everything was in place for the smooth running of the great sporting occasion. The Ballylongford pitch was in splendid condition for the programme of events which is a tribute to the Ballylongford club who now have a facility they can be very proud of. It was good to see Asdee represented in the proceedings and all the children contributed to a great evening's entertainment. It was great to see a big number of entries in the younger age brackets but unfortunately when it came to the older children in the mid teens that numbers competing were much lower. Once again the event was very well organised by the local committee with Donal O Sullivan of Listowel doing an excellent job in the commentary box at the starting line A special word of thanks to the Ballylongford G.A.A. club for the use of their field and to all the people that assisted in the smooth running of the event. The Asdee qualifiers on the evening were Girls Under 8 60 metres Christina and Ellen Tydings, Girls under 12 100 metres Ashley Dunne, Under Boys under 12 100 metres Michael Tydings. All the qualifiers now go forward to the County Finals which will be staged at Austin Stack Park in Tralee on Saturday and Sunday June 17th and 18th where they carry everyone's best wishes for further success. SOCCER - Asdee Rovers extended their unbeaten run to 10 games at Tralee on Sunday when they shared the spoils 0 - 0 with Division One title chasers Currans in division One of the Kerry District League. This was a very evenly contested game with the outcome remaining in the balance right up to the final whistle. It was a good all round performance by Asdee and while they had a number of opportunities to win the game a draw was probably a fair result at the end of the day. It is good to see the team going through a rich vein of form in recent games and it augurs well for their prospects of doing well in outstanding cup engagements. They play Mainbank B in the Celsius Menswear Cup at Tralee on this Wednesday evening with winners down to play Ballybunion B in the quarter final. Meanwhile they are also in the quarter final of the Reserve but face a very difficult assignment with an away draw against the winners of Castlegregory or dingle Bay Rovers The team was Ned Moloney, Mike Long, Kevin Kennelly James Doherty, Martin Higgins Noel Long, Eoin O Mahony, Kieran Connolly, John Pierse. Patrick O Brien and Liam Mc Elligott. Subs Paul O Carroll, William Keane, Brian O Connor, Miche†l Walsh. Kevin Boyle, James Kelly and Sean O Keeffe. LOTTO - The Asdee Rovers weekly Lottery was held at Jesse James Tavern on Sunday night and the Jackpot was not won. The numbers drawn were 3 - 4 - 16 - 23 The lucky dip prize winners were ?50 Chrissie O Carroll, Asdee East ?25 John Swanser, Ballylongford, ?25 Maurice O Brien c/o Tom o Sullivan, Shop Local. Next week's draw is at The Store and the Jackpot is ?5,100. G.A.A. - The Asdee junior team minus a number of regulars booked their place in the North Kerry league Division 4 semi - final at Listowel during the week with a facile 17 point victory over Gale Rangers. After a slow opening period Asdee eventually found they rhythm and outclassed the opposition running out the easiest of winners at the end. While the opening quarter was evenly contested the game completely changed after this with Asdee sending their opponents reeling with 3 goals in the space of 5 minutes from Dan Kearney, Charles Dalton and Kenneth Tydings, At half time Asdee held a commanding 3 - 2 to 0 - 2 lead. They continued their dominance in the second half and further goals from Dan Kearney and Paul O Hanlon had their game over as a contest long before the final whistle. On an evening when everybody played their part Dan Kearney Charles Dalton Joe Holly Donal O Carroll Kenneth Tydings David O Connor and Mike Griffin played a huge part in the victory. Asdee will play Listowel Emmets C in the semi - final with the winners to play either Brosna B or Clounmacon B who contest the remaining semi-final. Dates and venues to be decided. When Asdee will have a full panel of players to pick from they will have high aspirations of outright success in the competition. The final score was Asdee B 5 - 8 Gale Rangers 2 - 2 Team and scorers Padraig Vallelly Kevin O Callaghan David O Connor Dan Dalton Brian O Hanlon John Gorman Kieran McElligott Charles Dalton (1 - 1) Donal O Carroll (0 - 1) D Kearney (2 - 0) Paul O Paul Hanlon (1 - 1) Joe Holly (0 - 1) Kenneth Tydings (1 - 2) Mike Griffin (0 - 2) Kevin Vallelly. Subs Ivan Tydings Mike Vallelly. FLASHBACK - When the Asdee GAA club was reformed back in 1986 as St Mary's Asdee the following were the first Officers elected. Chairman Fr. Michael O Sullivan Vice Chairman John Doran Snr Secretary J P McElligott Treasurer Eddie Anthony Walsh PRO Mike Rice Delegates N K B Fr Michael O Sullivan Tom O Sullivan John Doran snr Senior Selectors Patsy Coughlan Jim O Connor Jack Hennessy Trainer Mike Doyle Captain Tim O Connor The first competitive engagement was in Division 2 of the N K L against Ballyduff and even in defeat 1 - 5 0 - 5 the team showed plenty potential. That historic team that lined out in Ballyduff were Eddie Joe Linnane Mike O Connor Paddy Dee Sean O Connor John O Gorman Paddy McElligott J P McElligott Gerdie O Carroll Sean Doran capt Sean O Keeffe John Joe O Carroll Micheal O Connor Barry Healy Dan Dalton Jimmy O Carroll. Subs Tom O Donoghue John Martin Collins Mike Vallelly Kevin Mulvihill Joe Dee Joe Edgeworth Mike Breen RIP - The Clubs first win was in the County Novice B Championship against Causeway but Foilmore ended our prospects of going further when they defeated us after a replay. Then the Club decided to enter a team in the N K junior championship, the Murphy cup was the prize for the winners, Lenamore provided the opposition in the semi final but Asdee were equal to the task and won through to the final. Gale Rangers who had won the NKL earlier on and were firm favourites to do the double of league and championship provided very stiff opposition in the final. The game was played in Moyvane and Asdee were lucky to get a second chance. However in the replay and with a few adjustments to the team we captured our first trophy and a proud Tim O Connor accepted the cup. When the Asdee/Ballylongford combination won the Junior cup in 1974 Tim was also a playing member of that successful side as was John Joe O Carroll. Team selector Jack Hennessy was captain of that winning combination. The 1986 Murphy Cup winning side that defeated Gale Rangers after a replay on a score of 1 - 5 to 0 - 3 were Sean Whyte Sean O Connor Tom O Sullivan Tim O Connor capt John O Gorman Paddy Dee Mike Vallelly J P McElligott Gerdie O Carroll Michael O Connor John Joe O Carroll Paddy McElligott Dan Sheehan Sean Doran Donie O Keeffe. Subs Mike Moloney Eamon Collins Tony McElligott Leo O Donoghue Fergus O Connor Joe Dee Kevin Mulvihill Joe Edgeworth Seamus Edgeworth Jimmy O Carroll Mike O Connor John Griffin Sean O Keeffe. SHANNON RANGERS - After all the expectations Shannon Rangers made a dismal exit from the senior County Championship at Fitzgerald on Saturday evening going down by a whopping 17 point margin to East Kerry. Their prospects of overcoming East Kerry were turned into turmoil when many of the squad withdrew from the team To make matters worse most of the officers of the club did not turn up for the game on Saturday evening and supporters were also very few and far between. It seems now that many players have no pride in wearing the Shannon Rangers jersey anymore and that is most regrettable as the club has a very proud history. The whole bizarre sequence of events that unfolded prior to the game came as a bombshell to the team trainer John Kennedy but he rose above it and still managed to get out a team despite the intolerable predicament he found himself in. At short notice many players that were not on the Shannon Rangers panel answered the call of duty and lined out with the team in Kilarney. Of course given the circumstances the team had very little chance of success but to their credit all the players on duty could not be faulted for effort. The PRO of the Shannon Rangers club Jack Hennessy said he was very disappointed and upset at the shambles in Kilarney on Saturday evening which he said was a new low for the club and team of which much was expected this year. He said expectations were very high at the A.G.M of the club earlier in the year and with the experience and expertise of John Kennedy at the helm as trainer prospects of doing well in the County Championship appeared to be very optimistic. He paid tribute to all the players that rallied behind the club at short notice and John Kennedy for getting a team out to play the game. He said John Kennedy has given a full 100% to the job as trainer and it was most regrettable that he was treated in this way by certain players. For the record the team that lined out were K Hughes, Ballydonoghue, S Enright Tarbert, C O Mahony Ballydonoghue, C Kissane Beale P Collins Beale M O Mahony Ballydonoghue J King Beale P Kelly Ballylongfordc G Dowling Beale K Wren Tarbert A Lanigan Tarbert S Langan Tarbert K Mulvihill Ballylongford, D Lanigan Tarbert I Blake Beale. Subs L Galvin Beale P Bunyan Ballydonoghue N Long Asdee B Brown Beale L Foley Ballylongford C Dineen Asdee S Foley Ballylongford East Kerry 1 - 19 Shannon Rangers 1 - 2 However it was not all doom and gloom out North of the County as Feale Rangers made the long trip to Annascaul worthwhile when they accounted for West Kerry and now have a much sterner test when they take on County Champions for the past 2 years South Kerry. 
