sport gaa
{  
    January 15 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27365969.html }
SYMPATHY: Is extended to Joe and  Mike McKenna on the death of their mother Kathleen McKenna, Fortwilliam who died recently. Also to the Lenihan family, Ballybroman on the death of Mike Joe Lenihan, Co Mayo and late of Ballybroman.WEDDING: Congratulations to John Rice, son of David and Treasa Rice, Abbeydorney who married Sarah Kate Curran, Celbridge, Co Kildare recently.GAA SYMPATHY: Is extended to Joe and Mike McKenna on the death of their mother Kathleen McKenna, Fortwilliam who died recently. Also to the Lenihan family, Ballybroman on the death of Mike Joe Lenihan, Co Mayo and late of Ballybroman. WEDDING: Congratulations to John Rice, son of David and Treasa Rice, Abbeydorney who married Sarah Kate Curran, Celbridge, Co Kildare recently. GAA: Agm - At a very well attended Annual General Meeting in the Clubhouse, on Sunday, the following officers were elected: Chairman - John Joe Fealy; Vice chairman - Gerry Treanor; Secretary - Ger Maunsell; Asst Sec and Registrar - Ian Maunsell; Treasurer - Frank Egan; Pro - Kathleen Hayes; Club committee - Mike Hannafin, Timmy Weir, Paudie Dineen, Tom Healy, Kieran Hanafin, Mikey Leahy, Jackie Treanor, Brenda Dowling. Social - The Club in association with the Ladies Football Club will hold their Annual Social in Ballygarry House Hotel on Saturday, January 31. Tickets ?25. Music by Martin Williams and Nostalgia and Disco. Members of both clubs will be calling door to door with tickets. It has always been a great social night for the Parish. So come along for an enjoyable night. Bord na nÓg - The Bord na nÓg AGM will be held on Friday night, January 16, at 9pm, in the Clubhouse. All parents of under-age players are asked to attend. Congratulations to Michelle Leen and Mairead O’Donovan on their performance in Lansdowne Road. Michelle was the first girl from Abbeydorney to play in Lansdowne Road and Croke Park. Sympathy - The Club extends sympathy to the following: The Lenihan family, on the death of Mike Joe (Mayo). The late Mike Joe won minor championship medals with Abbeydorney. The Fealy family on their recent bereavement on the death of Danny Daly. LADIES FOOTBALL: The Club would like to express its deepest sympathy to the Fealy family, on their recent bereavement on the death of Danny Daly. CLUBHOUSE: Saturday - Music with DJ Jer; Sunday - Music with Murt and Bibi. MCELLIGOTTS BAR: The winner of the weekly Poker Classic on Wednesday night was Cathie Buckley. On Sunday night the winner was John Donovan. The weekly winners on Saturday night were Maureen Harmon and Angela Weir. Darts - Friday night at 9pm. BAKING COMPETITION: Will be held in conjunction with Abbeydorney Ploughing Match on Sunday, January 25. Categories - Brown and white bread, scones, apple tart, porter and queen cakes. Entries must be handed into ICA members or Abbeydorney PO before 4pm, Saturday, January 24. LADIES RUGBY: Congratulations to Mairead Donovan who was on the Munster team that beat Leinster and Ulster in the U19 Interprovincial Tournament, at Malahide last Saturday. On the previous night, Michelle Leen and Catherine Collins took part in an exhibition game during half time between Sale Sharks and Leinster at Lansdowne Road scoring a try each. THE ORGANISERS of the local St Patrick`s Day Parade have again requested that all clubs, groups, individuals, etc., intending to take part in the parade should notify the committee without delay. This is necessary in order to arrange proper insurance cover for the participants. Confirmation of intention to take part must be made, on or before 25th January, to the secretary, Sean Broderick. CARDS: There was another big attendance at Meenkilly Card Game on Tuesday 6th January. It proved to be a great night for the ladies present, as each of them was presented with a rose to celebrate ladies night out for Little Christmas. The winners with 13 games were Ann O`Connor, Joe O`Connor and Den Lane. Three teams divided second prize. They were; Tom Lenihan, Mike O`Donnell and John Paul Lenihan. Noreen Murphy, Liam O`Connor and Jamsie McEnery. Mrs Crowley, Jimmy Sweeney and Bridie Collins. Ticket winners were Pat Doran, Nora Lyons, Ann O`Connor, Den Lane (twice) and Peg McCarthy. Table prizes went to Betty McCarthy, Nancy O`Connor and Peg McCarthy. Door prizes were won by Nora Lyons and Sean Harnett. DEATH: The death has occurred of Jack Riordan, Main Street. He is survived by his wife Nora, daughters Margaret, Bridget and Norette, sons Billy and T.J. and by his brothers, sisters, grandchildren, relatives and a large circle of friends. GAA: St Joseph’s Girls senior football team won the County Limerick Senior Shield, beating Pallaskenry in the final by 0-11 to 0-4. The junior team qualified for the knockout stages of the Munster Championship after victory over Doon by 4-3 to 2-5. SOCIAL: The Abbeyfeale Coursing Club Annual Social goes ahead in the GAA Clubhouse on Saturday night, January 17 with music by Joe O`Keeffe. HARRIERS: Abbeyfeale Harriers have announced the following meets; January 18th, Metal Bridge, Ballaugh, Abbeyfeale. January 24th, Loughfouder School, Knocknagoshel. All meets start at 11am. SOCCER: Abbeyfeale Utd teams enjoyed a free weekend due to bad weather and unplayable pitches. The club will hold a card game at the Railway Bar on Sunday 18th January starting at 5.30 pm. DRAW: Winners in the Fr Casey’s Christmas GAA draw were as follows; 1st - Hamper - Gearoid Stack, Shannon. 2nd - ?100 - Nuala O`Connor, Dromtrasna. 3rd - ?50 - Mary Lane, Knocknasna. 4th and 5th - bottles of whiskey - Mike McCarthy, Galbally. Gary Foley, Listowel. RUGBY : In the Munster Junior Cup a spirited Abbeyfeale XV went down 8-0 to Kilfeacle at The Grove. Abbeyfeale trailed 3-0 at half time. They created several good scoring chances in the second half before the visitors sealed the issue with a late try. In the James Smith Memorial Cup, Abbeyfeale U/20`s defeated Newcastlewest at The Grove by 12 points to 7. Hello and welcome again to our newsletter. We hope that this year will be of pleasure to each and every person. In this week’s issue one of the members of the Youth of One Nation will be publishing poems to give encouragement to young people. Senita will also have a poem for you all. Southern African students By Nomleth (de Blackstar) © 2004 Summer leading to its edge of the season, sun shining brightly as the cock crowed to wake up the young nation. A nation that will be aiming very high, saying the sky is the limit. While the pressures provoking the ambitions to succeed. Children waving goodbye as they took a thoughtful step to school. Hoping that this year will be of improvement, leading them towards progress. While the previous year, had gone with its gravitational forces of failure. Your feature depends on your hands. A MESSAGE TO YOUNG PEOPLE We all know that some of us saw good improvement in our schoolwork last year but some hadn’t. This is to tell that it is never too late to achieve. Don’t sit back and let the gravitational forces of failure pull you down. Just tell yourself that I know I can‚. No matter how strong the forces of failure are, just bear in mind that you can do it. Wishing the leaving certificate students the best in their exams. Never give up. The sky is the limit. Reach out for the best. Black and beautiful By Nomleth Nyapokoto (de Blackstar)© 2004 Proud and positive. Creative and pro-active. Black but a star. Combination achieved. Black and a star combined. Blackstar I was named. An inspirational proper noun inspired me apt to shine. To reflect alien amongst the constellation. Exultance within the star. Life at wonder. Ambitious and motivated. Melancholy reclining Blackstar anxiety resistance. The Blackstar occupied. Opposes had no room. For Vance opportunities were banned. Miss Positive overthrew Mr. Negative. What‚s left? Twinkle, twinkle little star. SENITA’S PIECE: Today I have nothing long or big to write about. I do have a poem that inspired me and makes me think about hard working mothers all around the world. The composer of this poem is Adrienne Rich. The mother's battle for her child with sickness, with poverty, with war with all the forces of exploitation and callousness that cheaper human life needs to become a common human battle waged in love and in the passion for survival. The views in this newsletter are the personal views of the authors. Tel 066 718 5311 Text 087 793 6457 E-mail africanvoices@eircom.net THE COMMUNITY learned with sadness of the death in Kilcolgan, County Galway of Bridie Mc Dermott (nee Gleeson) formerly of Tullahinell, Asdee. A member of a very large and highly esteemed family, Bridie who was aged 51 was the daughter of the late Michael and Margaret Gleeson of Tullahinell. Bride passed away peacefully after a long and bravely borne illness Throughout her long illness Bridie had a very positive outlook on life and retained all her endearing characteristics right up to the time of her sad passing. A lady of warm and outgoing personality Bridie always had a kind word for everyone and she will be sadly missed not only by her family but by everyone that knew her. Although residing in County Galway for a long time Bridie always had a great affinity with her native parish and kept closely in touch with everything that was happening in the area. Just over a month ago Bridie appeared on the Prime Time programme of RTE. Many of her relative's neighbours and friends from the Asdee area made the journey to Kilcolgan for the funeral. Bridie is survived by her husband Frank, son, Justin, daughter Louise, brothers, Patsy, Michael, Joe, Denny, Jerome, John, Tommy, and Brendan, sisters, Noreen, Mary, Margaret and Agatha to whom deepest sympathy is extended. TAPE ON SALE: Everyone will be delighted to know that a videotape of the recent drama production by the local schoolchildren is now available to purchase. The drama production as staged at the local community centre just before Christmas and was thoroughly enjoyed by the huge audience that was present. The tape is priced ?10 and is available from Ann Collins, Craughdarrig. OPENING: The official opening of The Store under the management of the Stack family of Kilcolman will take place on this Friday night January 16. A special social function will be held to mark the occasion and music will be provided by the Hillsiders. A great night's entertainment is guaranteed. CHERNOBYL CONCERT: A night of musical delights featuring widely acclaimed singer Brian Carr will be held at Siamsa Tire in Tralee on Wednesday night January 21 at 8pm. He will be performing songs from all the big Musicals and from his latest Album Moonlight Musicals. Brian will be joined on the night by Ireland's Rugby World Cup singer Coleen Shannon and local emerging talent Cathriona O’Connor and Joanne O’Sullivan. Accompanist on the night will be legendary D'Oyle Carte and the Irish Tenors, accompanist Patrick Healy. All the proceeds of the night will go to assist a group of nurses from Tralee General Hospital to travel to Chernobyl in March as part of a Chernobyl Children's Project. The nurses will be part of a large contingent of Irish Volunteers and aid workers. Tickets priced ?15 are available from Siamsa Tire Phone (066) 7123055. This is a charity concert which is worthy of good local support where a great night's entertainment is guaranteed. TARBERT COURSES: If you have been promising to take up a computer class for the winter period this is your chance with a whole series of classes just kicking off at Community I.T. Access in Tarbert. Courses on the present schedule include Beginners, Intermediate/Advanced, intermediate, Internet/email Publisher, Sage (city and guilds), ECDL, Payroll (Guickpay), and computerised Accounts for beginners. If you are interested in any of these courses contact Jenny at (068) 36938 PIONEER SOCIAL: The annual North Kerry Pioneer Social will be held at the Golf Hotel in Ballybunion on Friday night January 16. Music will be provided by Johnny Barrett and tickets are widely on sale from members of the association priced ?17.50. WATER SCHEME: Work on the Asdee Group Water Scheme has been progressing very satisfactorily in recent times with Phase two now completed. The work was carried out with no great inconvenience to the local community which is a tribute to the contractor Eamon Mulvihill. While everyone is delighted to see this work being completed so efficiently people of the area in general are wondering when Kerry County Council will commence on the main line. Work on this line terminated last year when the contractor left the site and no news regarding a new contractor completing the work has been forthcoming. People who have paid out ?600 to join the Scheme should be updated on when work on the main line will re-commence. BRENDAN KENNELLY TRIBUTE: Residents of the area residing in Dublin are reminded that a big tribute concert to the celebrated Irish poet and dramatist Brendan Kennelly in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the Arts will be held at The National Concert in Dublin on Saturday night, January 24 2004. This will be a night of poetry, music, song and dance featuring friends and colleagues from the world's of literature and entertainment all coming together to pay tribute to the ever popular Brendan Kennelly. Carrie Crowley of RTE will compere the concert which will include performances by Siamsa Tire, Cheoil Chiarri, violinist Ken Rice, singers Ronnie Drew, Kathy Nugent, Cathriona O’Sullivan and Denis Hagan, poet Paula Meehan, Asdee actor Paddy Mc Ellligott and of course Brendan Kennelly himself. Many surprise guests are also being lined up for what promises to be a highly entertaining show. Tickets priced ?25 are available from Tim Kennelly at (068) 43445. A bus will be travelling from Ballylongford to the concert on the day. LOTTO: There was heavy demand for tickets for the Asdee Rovers Lottery at the weekend but no punter came up with the correct combination of numbers when the balls were taken out of the drum at The Store on Sunday night. The numbers drawn were 4 - 6 - 11 - 12 The lucky dip prize winners were ?50 Anthony Sheehan, Ballynoneen, ?25 Niall Fitzgerald, Tarbert, ?25 Brendan Bambury, Ballylongford. This week's draw will be held at Jack J's and the Jackpot is ?3000. GAA: The North Kerry Finals of Senior Scor will take place at the local Community Centre on Saturday February 7 commencing at 8.3Opm. Anybody interested in representing the club are asked to contact Club Scor Officer Mattie Quinn immediately. The Categories are, Figure Dancing, Solo Singing, Instrumental Music, Question Time, Recitation Ballad Group, Set Dancing, Novelty Act. Clubs taking part must take part in any two of the above categories. DRAW: The 1Oth of the Club Fund Raising Draws will be held at Jacks Jays on Saturday January 31st. Promoters of the draw are requested to have their cards and outstanding money returned well in advance of the above date. GAA LOTTO: Numbers drawn : 1, 13, 23, 25. No winner. Lucky dip winners of 40 Euro were Larry O Shea, Inch. Sean Quirke, Camp. Tim O Shea C/O Dan Foleys , Michael Courtney, Ballintarmin. Joan Sayers, West Inch. Next draw on Friday the 16th at Dan Foleys. Jackpot will be ?2,450. GAA AGM: The AGM of the Annascaul GAA will be held on Sunday next the 18th of January in the community centre at 7 O Clock. WEST KERRY FINAL: Our Junior team played An Gaeltacht in the replay of the west Kerry B final and again it ended in a draw, 0-5 to 0-5. We played very well in the first half with Tim Falvey and Timmy Griffen picking off the vital scores and our defense looking very strong but an Gaeltacht fought their way back to a deserved draw. The replay is fixed for Sunday next in castlegregory and hopefully it will be 3rd time lucky for our lads. Best for us last Sunday were Paul Moriarty, Conor Slattery, Johnny Shea, David O Donnell, Brendan and Tim Falvey. WHIST DRIVE: Ladies 1st Pat Moore, 2nd Mary Flahive. 1st interval, Bridie Lyne, 2nd Marie O’Sullivan. Gents 1st Mickie Murphy, 2nd Eileen Moriarty. 1st interval, John McEnery, 2nd Kathleen Begley. Mystery Mary Donegan and Michael O’Rourke. Raffle, 1st Kathleen Begley, 2nd Maureen Finn, 3rd Mickie Murphy, 4th Breda Baker. RETREAT CENTRE: Priests from the diocese will conclude their retreat at the retreat centre this Friday. Sunday will be a day of support and reflection for recovering alcholics faciliated by Rev J Curran from Aiseiri, W exford, Sr Barbara Macnamara MMM, will facilitate an Enneagram workshop Friday 30th to Sunday 1st. Residential and non -residential places available Tel: 066 -7134276 ST BRENDANS ATHLETIC CLUB: A very important meeting will be held on this Thursday, January 15 at 8.30 in Community Centre. A number of important positions need to be filled to ensure the clubs future. Registration of all athletes will take place on Wednesday Jan 21 from 7-8 in Community centre. GAA LOTTO: Draw took place in Kate Brownes Pub; The numbers drawn were 1, 8,18, 22. Observers: Billy O’Donovan, Banna West, Ardfert. The consolation prize winners were ?75, 1, Chris Edge, Adrahan, Ardfert; ?30; Anne Lawlor, Ardfert; ?30 James Slattery, Tralee Rd, Ardfert; ?30 Rita Henry, Ardfert; ?30 K Clifford, Tralee Rd, Ardfert. Next week’s jackpot: ?6,575; Venue Brandonwell Bar. Entries for quarterly draw: P J O’Riordan Liscohane, Ardfert; Joe Dowling, Killeacle, Ardfert; Peter Egar, Liscahane, Ardfert; Shanie O’Flaherty, The Village, Ardfert; Helina Wallace 6 Casements view, Ardfert. ST BRENDANS HURLING CLUB: Sympathy is extended to the Galvin family, Sachille on the death of their Mother. The Lenihan Family, Casements View, Ardfert on their family bereavement and to Tadgh O’Sullivan and family, Tubrid, Ardfert on the death of his mother. May they all rest in peace. ATHEA Community Council resumed their lucky numbers draw on Saturday night last, with a jackpot of ?3,500. There was no outright winner. However the numbers drawn were 9, 18, 19, 24. Lucky dip winners were ?50 Margaret Reidy, Upper Athea, ?30 Bernie Higgins, Glasha, ?20 x 4 Ted Tierney, Templeathea, Liz Flynn, Knockanaire, Noreen Brouder, Templeathea, Sean Mahony, Markievicz Park. Sellers prize Thady Hunt and Brownes. Next weeks draw will be held at The Top of the Town, and the jackpot will be ?3,600. Best of luck to all. Incidentally a new list for the readers for 2004 is being presently drawn up. Anyone wishing to help out with the readings at the mass which they normally attend is asked to give their name to the clergy. COMMUNITY IT: Access Tarbert have now commenced enrolments for computer courses for 2004. Phone 068 36938. Courses include Beginners, Intermediate, advanced, internet, e mail, publisher, SAGE, City and Guilds, ECDL, payroll and computerised accounts. FUND RAISER: A grand fund raiser will be held at The Gables on Saturday night, January 24, in order to raise funds for the new Hospice at St Itas Hospital in Newcastlewest. Spearheaded by Fergus Scanlon, along with the friends of St Itas, their aim is to raise over one million for the hospice and they are doing well so far. Athea Church gate collection, the table quiz and now this dance with music by the very popular P J Murrihy and Seamus Shannon will make our parish among one of the great contributors to this most worthy project. Indeed all the surrounding areas have been doing their bit all of us know someone or have had family, in the care of the staff of St Itas and Im sure all will agree their dedication is second to none. So come along enjoy the night of music and dance and at the same time you are helping a great cause. AGM: The AGM of the Athea ladies football team will take place at Top of the Town on Friday night, January 23 at 8pm. All team members are asked to attend and new members are especially welcome to come along. Parents of team members are also welcome. CONFIRMATION: This year the Sacrament of Confirmation will be administered by Bishop Donal Murray to 5th and 6th classes of Athea NS on Tuesday, March 2. First Communion this year will be on the 3rd Saturday in May. LADIES FOOTBALL: The ladies footballers will hold their annual Church gate collection this weekend, January 17/18, before all masses. Your support for the club would be very much appreciated. As we all know it takes a lot of money to finance and run a club, the collection is one of their main sources of doing just this. As many as possible of the team members are asked to come along and help out with the collection. GUN CLUB: A good crowd attended the Athea Gun Club dance at Top of The Town on December 29. The prizes went to the following lucky winners, 1st prize, tv to Mike Hayes c/o AAL, 2nd prize, a hamper to P J Quaid. Thanks is extended to all those who gave spot prizes and sold tickets on the night, and to the gun club members, who sold the cards. Anyone interested in clay pigeon shooting, there will be a shoot on the first Sunday of every month, starting in March. Contact Denis Hayes or Tommy Enright for more info. HAPPY New Year to all readers and contributors. I look forward to your help in putting together these notes every week again this year. It has been a busy Christmas Season in Annascaul this year, kicked off by the School Concert on December 18 which put us all in a festive mood. Again held in the Connor Crean Centre this year, the children of Scoil Bhreac Chluain performed marvellously and entertained us all royally. The hard work and hours of rehearsals by the children really paid off. The devoted time and effort put in by Pat Clifford, Principal and his backup team of teachers and assistants was obvious. Thanks kids – Scrooge has a lot to live up to ! Christmas Eve and Christmas Day passed peacefully with kind weather and emigrants return as usual. It was great to meet up with old friends and new to celebrate this happy season. We are not forgetting however the loss of friends and relatives who passed away throughout 2003. They were sadly missed by their community, families and friends, especially at Christmas. The Wrenboys were busy in Annascaul on St Stephens Day. Music, song and dance were the order of the day, when many of us were allowed to make more of a fool of ourselves than usual while in disguise ! December 27 saw a winter wedding in our parish. Congratulations to Mary O’Donnell Ardroe Inch and Thomas Devane Lispole who married at St Josephs Church Inch and followed with a reception at Ballyroe Hotel Tralee. Wishing you both many years of happiness together. New Years Eve was as busy as ever. The town cryer rang the bell at midnight to inform us of the incoming New Year. She was followed by a parade of pipers and locals marking the occasion in a particularly local pikeman fashion. The lovely tradition of a piper playing at midnight started by Paddy Sullivan was continued this year by the four pipers from the United States . They heard of the event and came specially to Annascaul to join in the festivities. They certainly added to the occasion. If the singing, dancing, fun and frolics of the night are anything to go by, we are in for a good year. On January 2 the newly formed drama group, River Shadow Performers, held their first concert and drama event at the Connor/Crean Centre. A variety of local talent was presented as young and old performed sets, sean-nos singing, seanachoi storytelling, ballad singing, Irish dancing, Christmas songs and our local young rock group. They were all most impressive. In the second half our new thespians took to the stage and treated us to the specially written drama ‘The Legend of Cuchulainn, The Giant and the Ghosts of Scal’ telling the story of the Legend of the Lake. Watch out for the video which I am assured is on sale shortly. Happy Whist Year ! Whist has resumed on Wednesday nights as usual from January 5. Here are the results from last Wednesday night:- Whist Results 05/01/04 - Ladies 1st Bridie Lyne. 2nd Hannah Hannifin. 1st Interval Mary Flahive. 2nd Interval Kathleen Ui She. Gents 1st Gerry Curran Gents 2nd Tim Collins. 1st Interval John McEnery. 2nd Interval Mickey Murphy. Mystery Siobhan Kennedy and Martin Murphy Raffle: Maureen Finn. Kathleen Ui She. Siobhan Kennedy. Bridie Lyne. Eileen Collins, Peggy Sayers, Siobhan Kennedy, Martin Murphy, ANNASCAUL ICA - a big crowd enjoyed the Christmas Flower Decoration demonstration and raffle on December 11 at the Community Centre. Thanks to Maureen Kennedy for sharing her expertise. Delicious homemade refreshments were greatly appreciated by all who attended. On January 8 ICA General work and meeting nights will resume at 8pm. ICA – Members don’t forget the Christmas Party at Redcliffe House on January 15. CHERNOBYL PROJECT: Local well known singer Mr Bryan Carr will be holding an evening of singing from your favourite musicals at Siamsa Tíre, Tralee on Wednesday, January 21, at 8pm. All proceeds on the night will go to assist a group of nurses from Tralee General who will form part of a large contingent of Irish volunteers and Aid workers who are travelling to Chernobyl as part of the Childrens Project there. Bryan will be joined by such well known singers as Ireland’s World Rugby Cup singer Coleen Shannon and locals Catherine O’Connor and Joanne O’Sullivan (courtesy of Tralee Stage School). Accordionist on the night will be legendary Doyle Carte and Irish tenors accompanist Mr Patrick Healy. Your support for this worthy cause will be much appreciated. PIONEER SOCIAL: The North Kerry Annual Pioneer Social takes place at the Golf Hotel on this Friday, January 16, at 8.30pm. Music by Johnny Barrett. Tickets available from usual sources 27174/27365/47320. BEALE BORD NA NOG: The AGM of Beale Bórd na nÓg will be held at the Community Centre this Thursday night, January 15, at 8.30pm. OBITUARY: The death took place peacefully at her residence East End of Mrs Joan Daly (nee Hartnett). A member of a highly respected family. Joan ran a very successful Bed and Breakfast business and was also in the catering trade. There was a huge attendance at the removal to St Johns Church and burial at Killahenny. To her grieving husband, Jack, daughters Joanne and Marie, sons John, William and Maurice, brothers Tim and Moss (Ballybunion), Pat (London) and John (New York), families, relatives and friends, deepest sympathy is extended. AFTER SCHOOL CLUB: The Ballybunion After School Club will re-open on Tuesday, January 13. There will be a collection from St Josephs NS, at 2pm, and 3pm. And also at 3pm, from the Boys National School. The photos from the Childrens Christmas Party are now ready for collection from the Ballybunion Community Centre. BEALE GAA: The AGM of Beale GAA takes place this Friday night in the Community Centre at 8.30pm. CREDIT UNION AGM: Ballybunion Credit Union are holding their AGM on Tuesday, January 20, at 8pm, at the Golf Hotel. The Credit Union play a pivotal role in the Community and therefore deserve the support of all shareholders members at this AGM. LOTTO: The results of the Ballyduff Community Games and Ladies Walk Hurling Club lotto draw for Monday, January 5, held at Barons Bunker was as follows: 9, 12, 21, 22. There was no jackpot winner. The following won ?50 each, Irwel Jones, Bishopscourt; Ann O’Connor, The Village; Gilbert Jones, Bishopscourt. TV Draw - Alex and Jennifer White, Tralee; Siobhan Hennessy, Glounerdalive; Dave O’Carroll, Kilmore West. Tickets are on sale locally at ?2 each. PARENTS ASSOC: The results of the Ballyduff School Parents Association’s Christmas Draw are as follows: 1, Hamper - Colm Boyle, Ballincrossig; 2, Whiskey - Brendan O’Brien, Bishopscourt; 3, Gift Voucher Heiton McCowens - Teddy Dalton, Lacca Cross; 4, Lynch Voucher, Lowe’s - Kay Flanagan, The Village. The organisers of this draw wish to thank all those that supported it and the total amount collected was ?2, 653.40. ARTS & CRAFTS: Arts and Crafts classes for children take place every Saturday at Ballyduff Community Centre at 2pm. Materials supplied and everybody welcome. GOLF CLASSIC: A fund raising Golf Classic for Ballyduff GAA Club will take place in London on Friday, March 26. Ballyduff GAA Club is organising a trip to London from Thursday, March 25, to Sunday, March 28. Anybody interested in making the journey is asked to contact Liam Ross for further information. AGM: The Annual General Meeting of the Ballyduff Hurling and Football Club will be held at Ballyduff Central NS on Friday, January 23, at 8pm. Nominations and motion forms have been sent to all members and these forms must be returned to the secretary by this Friday, January 16. Anybody interested in getting involved with underage football and hurling teams are especially needed. So come along to the AGM. Vacancies arise for Vice-chairman and North Kerry Hurling Board delegate so get those forms returned, but remember to sign them. FOOTBALL: The Ballyduff Junior football team became the first team to bring honours to Ballyduff in 2004 by virtue of their 1-13 to 1-3 victory over Tarbert in the final of the 2003 Building League Division 4 NK league. Played in Ballylongford on Sunday last the results of the game was never in doubt as Ballyduff were on top throughout. They led 0-7 to 0-2 at half time having played with the strong wind. The expected Tarbert revival never materialised in the second half and the Ballyduff boys ran out convincing winners by ten points. The team lined out as follows: Tom Enright, TJ Linnane, Cathal Laide (capt), Christy Ross, Patrick Moran, David Slattery, John Paul Leahy, Roger Costello, Joe Murphy (0-3), Colm Boyle, Eddie Joy (0-1), Damien Fitzpatrick (0-1), Patrick Quinlan (0-2), William Quinlan, Thomas O’Rourke (1-5). Subs: John O’Carroll (0-1) for C Boys (injured); Xavier Godley for W Quinlan; Seamus McCarthy for P Quinlan; Eoin Gibbons for D Fitzpatrick; John Hussey for Christy Ross (injured). After the game North Kerry Football Board treasurer; Ballyduff’s JP Hussey presented the Buildstone League Division 4 trophy to Ballyduff captain Cathal Laide. Ballyduff GAA Club wishes a speedy recovery to Colm Boyle who sustained a broken collar bone in the game. NEWS ITEMS: All items for inclusion in the Ballyduff notes must be with the writer each Sunday evening at 8pm, to guarantee inclusion in the next edition of The Kerryman. GOLF SOCIETY: The Annual General Meeting of Lowe’s Bar Golf Society was held on Friday night, January 9, and the following officers were elected: President - Murrie O’Connor; Captain - Jimmy O’Sullivan; Honorary secretary - Eamon Stack; Asst secretary - Phil Lowe; Handicap secretary - Liam Gallagher. A list of outings for 2004 is now being prepared by the Captain and secretary and will be published shortly. GYM: Are you looking for a healthy pastime for the long dark nights. If so why not drop into the Gym at Ballyheigue Community Centre, where fully qualified staff will give you a free tour of its extensive facilities. The Gym has ten pieces of user friendly cardiovascular equipment, as well as machine and free weights. You can pay by the session or avail of our unbeatable membership offers. Whether its loosing weight or getting fit for upcoming events, the gym at Ballyheigue Comm Centre is worth a visit. Open Monday to Friday 10am to 1pm and 5pm to 9pm, and Saturday, 10am to 1pm. Call Paudie at 066-7133837 for more details. AEROBICS: The next programme of aerobics will begin Monday, and Wednesday, January 19/21 at Ballyheigue Comm Centre. Its an eight week course, twice a week. These classes have proven to be very successful in the past so booking is essential. Phone Paudie 066 7133837. LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Saturday night’s GAA Lotto 2, 19,20,21; The jackpot of ?2,350 was not won next weeks jackpot will be ?2,400. The two ?50 winners were Susan Horgan, Marian Park, Rene O’Carroll, The Village. The ?25 winner was Cian O’Sullivan 29 Marian Park. DEATHS: The death took place during the week of Maisie (Mary), Smith (Nee Lawlor), Ballymacquinn and formerly of Thurles. She is survived by her daughters Breda and Joan brothers Diarmuid and Maurice, sisters, Joan, Kitty and Betty grandchildren, son in law, nieces and nephews. Burial on Friday in St Patricks Cemetery, Thurles. The death also took place of Kathleen McKenna (nee O’Halloran) Forthwilliam, Abbeydorney and late of Clohaneleish, Ballyheigue. She is survived by her sons Joseph and Michael brother Donie sisters, Marie, Bridie and Hannie, brothers in law, sister in law, nephews and nieces. Burial on Friday in Kyrie Eleison Cemetery. The death has taken place of Sr Benedict Enright, late of Glendahalan, Ballyheigue at the Mercy Convent, Bantry, Co Cork. She is survived by her brother and sister. GAA: The re-convened AGM of Ballyheigue GAA club will be held on Sunday in the community centre at 8.30pm. MUSIC CLASS: Music classes recommence with T P McNamara on Thursday evening 15 January in the Community Centre at 5.30pm. Lessons for the next two weeks are part of the first term, a second term will commence on January 29 for a further ten lessons, new students are always welcome. COURSING CLUB: Lotto - The numbers drawn were 7, 8, 17, 18. There was no winner of the jackpot. ?50 winners were Mary Godley, c/o Centra and Chrissie Maunsell, Abbeydorney. This weeks jackpot will be ?5350. The draw will take place in the White Sands on Sunday night. INSHORE RESCUE: A meeting of the Ballyheigue Inshore Rescue Service will be held on Wednesday night, January 21 at 9pm in the boathouse. RACES: A meeting of the Ballyheigue race company will be held in the K L Lounge on this Wednesday night at 9.30. All outstanding money to be handed in at the meeting. HUNT: Kerry hunt club are holding a hunt this Sunday in Ballyheigue starting at 1 0am from the beach car park. PLAQUE: Anybody interested in having their name inscribed on the plaque on the Sportsfield wall can contact any member of the GAA Club. Naíonra na Mara - De bharr timpiste, fanfaidh Naíonra na Mara dúnta. Due to an unfortunate accident suffered by An Muinteóir, Denise Ní Shuilleabháin, Naíonra na Mara will remain closed until further notice. We would like to take this opportunity to wish Denise a speedy recovery. We would like to thank those who have already expressed an interest in availing of the service. Go raibh míle maith agaibh go léir. Má tá aon ceist, any queries, please do not hesitate to contact Risteárd Ó Fuaráin on 087 6763764. ADULT SET DANCING: Classes with Timmy Woulfe on Wednesday night at the Marion Hall, 8.30pm. SINGING CLASS: Sharon Buckley singing classes will resume in the Marion Hall on Friday evening at 6pm. SCÓR: Best wishes to Celia Mulvihill who will be completing in the semi-finals of Scór at Watergrasshill, Cork, on Sunday. CONGRATULATIONS: To the local syndicate whose horse Cloudy Bay won the Pierse Leopardstown Handicap Chase at Leopardstown, worth ?60,000. DEVELOPMENT: Work is progressing on our development and our field is nerly finished. We are now concentrating on our new stand. It is hoped to prepare tenders and send them out to contractors in the very near future. The fencing is now almost complete and the place is looking better. The Club wish to thank everybody who help us in anyway. BLOTTO: The Club ask our sellers to make a big effort to push the blotto sales as expenses to run a club as big as Moyvane these days cost a lot of money. Again a big thanks to everybody who are helping and working for us. On behalf of Moyvane GAA Club, I wish all our patrons and supporters a very happy and peaceful 2004. SINGING CLASSES: Just to let you know classes will begin soon in Listowel. Singing classes for individual, group, children or adults can be arranged. Also special workshops for groups such as choirs, singing or acting groups can be arranged. For more information contact Priscilla Donovan (068) 36624. GAA SOCIAL: Tickets for Scartaglin GAA Social on February 7, will be available from club officers this weekend. The price is ?25 each. The venue for the annual get together will once again be the River Island Hotel, Castleisland. Scartaglin U21s will be preparing shortly for their first outing in the East Kerry U21 league. Two positions not filled at the recent AGM were those of Pro and lotto co-ordinator John O’Sullivan of Knockrour and Seamus Riordan of Barna have now respectively assumed these positions. BASKETBALL CHAMPIONS: Congratulations to St Mary’s senior ladies basketball team who won the senior ladies final in the Castleisland basketball blitz held recently. St Mary’s beat University of Limerick 39-23 in the final. Congratulations also to the two Scartaglin ladies on the team Bridget O’Connor from Knockrour and Kathryn Canty from Dromulton. Kathryn scored six points for her team in the final. ST KIERANS COLLECTION: The Annual Church gate collection in aid of St Kierans GAA Club will be taken up at all Masses in the Club’s Catchment Area this coming weekend, January 17 and 18. Officials of clubs involved with St Kierans are asked to organise and help out with this collection in their areas. ELECTRICITY INTERRUPTIONS: Consumers in the Scartaglin area have been advised by the ESB that there will be an interruption to the supply on this Thursday, January 15, from 9am to 5pm. This interruption is necessary in order to renew the network in the area. The ESB regrets any inconvenience caused to consumers because of the renewal work. ENGAGEMENT ANNOUNCED: Congratulations to Ailish O’Donoghue, daughter of Eileen and James O’Donoghue of Knockrour, and Denis Dicker of Malahide, Co Dublin who announced their engagement before Christmas. We wish them both every happiness and joy for the future. AFTERNOON OF PRAYER: There will be an Afternoon of Prayer in Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Scartaglin on Sunday, January 18, commencing at 2.45pm. The speaker will be Arthur McCluskey who will give testimony as to how his brother’s death led to his own conversion at Medjugorje. There will also be Divine Mercy songs of praise and workship and a Eucharistic Blessing and Prayers for healing. WALKING FESTIVAL: Walking, we are told is very good exercise so people who do a lot of it maybe interested to learn that a St Patricks Walking Festival is being planned for Killarney. The festival, will include a week of exercise and celebration. It will be based at Aghadoe Heights Hotel. For more details contact info@patfalvey.com. CHURCH DUTIES: Those requested for Church duties for the month of January are as follows: Readers - Vigil Masses - Jerome O’Driscoll. Sundays - Caitriona Horan and Bridget Reidy. Collectors: Vigil Masses - Michael Daly and Mossie Kerin. Sundays - Denis Horan and Pat Horan. RESULT: Well Lisselton Rovers have certainly hit the headlines after dumping Wembley Utd out of the Munster Youth Cup in Ballybunion last Sunday. This is the result we desired to get as the opposition were big guns and we really did not expect the result. We are now in the last eight, the quarter final stage and would you believe we have received a home draw against Waterford Utd. Lisselton were by far the better team and only for two penalties being converted by Wembley, Lisselton could have run out four goals to one winners. A full match report is in the main section of this paper. The local lads on the panel were: Keith Hughes, Martin O’Mahony, Colin O’Mahony, Kevin Walsh, Barry Shanahan, James Flavin, Daniel Sparks. Lisselton Rovers celebrated their second biggest day in the Club last Sunday with a great home victory against Wembley. However the attention this weekend turns to the clubs biggest day since its foundation in 1991. On this Sunday, Lisselton Rovers will represent Kerry at senior level and take on the Mighty Manorhamilton Rovers of Leitrim in the last 32 of the FAI Cup, people reading these notes may not realise the level reached by Lisselton Rovers but let me try and shed some light on how big this game is. The FAI Cup is the biggest amateur senior soccer competition in Europe. 1020 teams first took part from all over the 32 counties. Lisselton at the start could be backed at 100 to 1, now they have reached the last 32 and their odds are down to 20 to 1. Should Lisselton reach the last 16 this will entitle the team to partake in the FAI senior league next year? So as you can see its already a huge occasion to get this far and we are hoping that like last Sunday, all sports fans of all equations and all sporting bodies will make the 16 mile trip to Tralee and shout on Lisselton Rovers on this historic occasion. Lisselton will have to be at their best as the opposition won the Sligo/Leitrim League on six consecutive years, in saying that Lisselton are playing top drawer soccer and we’ll be relying on the local lads: Eoin Mahony, Timmy Foley, Edward Diggins, Anthony O’Connor, Ger Lovett, Ben Sweeney, Mark Hannon, Keith Hughes, Kiki Mulvihill and Martin Higgins to inspire Lisselton to a home victory. Mounthawk is up by Fás Tralee and all supporters will have the benefit of being in from the cold weather as the KDL boasts a huge stand with over 1000 seats. The game kicks off at 2pm sharp. A bus will leave Lisselton on Sunday for the FAI Cup game at 1pm, from Tomaisín’s at a cost of ?5 return. Your support is welcome on the day. PITCH: Last Sunday, Lisselton had to change their game at short notice from Ballyloughran to Ballybunion due to our pitch being unplayable. Many thanks to Ballybunion who obliged us at such short notice and also thanks to the home support for coming out to support us in such bad conditions. Apologies to the people who turned up in Ballyloughran and we were not aware of the venue change. Next Sunday all supporters who travel to Tralee will have the comfort of a new seated stand. INDOOR: The children’s indoor soccer camp will re-commence in Ballyloughran this Saturday 10am until midday at a cost of ?30 per child. All girls and boys aged 6 to 12 are welcome. LOTTO: The lotto took place in the Thatch last Friday for a jackpot of ?2800. The numbers drawn were 2, 7, 14 and 17. There was no jackpot winner. Winners of the lucky dips were Pat Holly, Asdee; John Joy, Crough; Angela McKenna, Knockenagh; Noreen Hartnett, Lisselton and John O’Connor, Lahesrough. The winners of the free tickets were Ger Collins, Coolkeragh; Peter O’Mahony, Ballybunion and Pat Scanlon, Ballyhahill. Next Friday’s draw will take place in Tomaisins for a jackpot of ?2900. CONVENTION: The Senior and Bord na nÓg conventions took place on Sunday, January 4, in the clubrooms. The following officers were elected for the coming year. President - Timmy Carr; Chairman - Pat O’Sullivan; Vice President - Timmy Carr; Chairman - Pat O’Sullivan; Vice chairman - Dermot Lynch; Secretary - Maurice O’Mahony; Asst secretary - Mike O’Mahony; Treasurers - Paddy O’Connor and Padraig Hughes; Auditor - Brendan Buckley; Pro - Brendan Griffin; Scor officer - Gerald Fitzgerald; Development officer - John Dowling; Safety Officer - Joe Shanahan; Bord na nog chairman - Francis Kennelly; Bord na nog secretary - Gerard Moran; Co Board delegate - Pat Griffin; Delegates to NKB - Pat O’Sullivan and Maurice O’Mahony; Senior trainer - Anthony Doyle; Senior selectors - Donal Enright and Tom Kennelly; Junior selectors - Nix Riordan, Pat O’Sullivan and Joe Shanahan; U21 selectors - Tadhg Carr, Martin Scanlon, Pat Keane, Eamon Diggins and Brendan Buckley; Minor trainer - Fr David Gunn; Minor selectors - John Houlihan, Joe Walsh, Pa Foley and Padraig Hughes; U16 trainer - Sean Carr; U16 selectors - Paddy Henchy, Christy Dillon, Tom Hegarty and Maurice O’Mahony; U14 selectors - Francis Kennelly, Joe Walsh, John Lonergan, Tom Hegarty and Gerard Moran; U12 trainer - Dave Kenneally; U12 selectors - Timmy O’Connor, Jerry Behan, John Dowling and Patrick Lyons; U8/10 selectors - John Dowling, Michael Gogarty, Patrick Lyons and Dave Kennelly. 1978 NOVICE CHAMPS: The Ballydonoghue senior panel and officials of the 1978 county champions, who defeated Milltown/ Castlemaine in Austin Stack Park, Tralee on November 5, all of 25 years ago, were invited to a get together at Tomaisins on Saturday, December 27, where they had a most enjoyable reunion. The following were on the panel: George McNamara, Colm O’Connor, Thomas McNamara, Joe Walsh, Gerry Behan, John Bambury, Pa Flavin, Mike Barry, Jimmy O’Sullivan, PJ Houlihan, Sean Kennelly, Mossie Henchy, Tom Mulvihill, Paddy Henchy, John Hegarty, Francis Kennelly, John Dowling, Bill Finnucane, Jim Finnerty, Mossie O’Sullivan, Joe Riordan, John Barry, Johnny Bunyan, Robert Bunyan, Tom Hegarty and Nix Riordan. The officials were Jackie Hegarty (RIP), Noel Hughes, Timmy Carr, Bud O’Connor, Ned Barry, Batt Maher and Mick Walsh. To cap a most memorable and enjoyable night, the legendary Eddie Dowling was in attendance. BROSNA GAA: The AGM of Brosna GAA took place last Sunday before a good-sized attendance in the clubrooms. Officers appointed for 2004 were as follows: chairman Tim Murphy; vice chairman Patrick Brosnan; secreary Jimmy Keane; asst secretary, William Horgan. Registrars: Michael Murphy, Kieran Curtin, Daniel Cronin and William Curtin. Development Officer, Dan Shine. Senior trainer to be picked in the near future. BROSA SOCIAL: Photos of the recent Brosna GAA Social held in the Devon Inn can be viewed on www.geocities. com/brosna_gaa. CENTENARY FLAG: Tarbert GAA Club celebrate the centenary of the GAA in the parish this year 1904-2004. On New Years Eve at the entrance to Shannon Park, the centenary flag was hoisted by Micheal O’Sullivan and Laura Lavery. Michael, who represented the older generation of Tarbert footballers and Laura, who represented the underage and present day footballers, were warmly applauded by everyone present. Club Chairman, Anthony Stack, thanked Michael and Laura and paid tribute to Secretary Joe Langan, for the preparation work he put in for the hoisting of the flag. 90TH AND 93RD BIRTHDAYS: Congrats to Mrs Josie O’Connell, Carhoona, on the celebration last week of her 90th birthday. Mrs O’Connell celebrated the occasion at her home with her family and friends. Congrats also to Mrs Nell Allen, Doonard Lower on the celebration of her 93rd birthday on December 28. GAA LOTTERY: There was no winner of the ?3,500 jackpot in the GAA lottery draw, held at Coolahans Bar on Friday night. The numbers 6, 17, 21, 28. Lucky dip winners of ?30 each Donal Finucane, Helen Buckley, Kieran Walsh. Bar prize winners Eddie Carville, ?50 in the envelope draw. ?20 each Joe Langan town, Patrick Carmody, Anne Kiely. Promoters prize ?20 Achor Bar. The next jackpot will be ?3,600 and the draw will be held at the Anchor Bar on Friday night. All welcome. GOLDEN JUBILEE: Heartiest congratulations to Michael and Peggy Lanigan, The Square, Tarbert on the celebration of the golden jubilee of their wedding. Joining them for the happy occasion was their sons, Micheal and Ambrose, daughters in law Patricia and Noelle, grandchildren and extended family members and friends, as well as best man at their wedding, Michael J Coolahan and bridesmaid, Mrs Joan Moore. The celebrations commenced with mass in the family home, by Very Rev Mossy Brick, PP and Very Rev John O’Connor, and afterwards there was a happy gathering when many stories and happenings of the last 50 years were recalled. On behalf of the community, the writer would like to extend best wishes to Michael and Peggy for many more years of health and happiness together. SILVER MEDAL: Congrats to Aoibheann Prendiville, Pulleen, who won a silver medal in the 3,000m walk at the Munster Junior indoor c’ships, held in Nenagh at the weekend. Aoibheann is a member of Listowel AC, and will be underage for this competition for the next three years. GAA MEETING: The first meeting of the Tarbert GAA club in their centenary year, will be held in the Community Centre, on this Thursday night at 8.30pm. GAA SOCIAL: The Tarbert GAA Centenary social will be held at Kirbys Lanterns Hotel, on Friday, February 6. Music by the Classics Showband. SYMPATHY: Of the community is extended to Mrs Maureen Healy, Tieraclea, Tarbert, on the death of her mother, Mrs Nora O’Connor, Lenamore, Ballylongford, which took place at Woodview Nursing Home, Finuge on January 7. A big number of Tarbert people attended the removal of the remains to St Michaels Church, Ballylongford and at the burial which took place in Lislaughtin Abbey. Mrs O’Connor was predeceased by her husband, Moss, who died last May. Sympathy of the community is also extended to Mr Noel Kavanagh, Woodview Place, Kilpadogue, on the recent death of his mother, Mrs Mary Kavanagh, Causeway. GAA CONVENTION: There was a good attendance at the Tarbert GAA Convention held in the Community Centre on January 4. The Chairman, Anthony Stack, said that this convention was of particular significance, since this is the centenary year of the club. He thanked senior team trainer, John Anthony Culhane, for the work he put in with the team during the past year and said it was a great achievement by the team to win Div 4 of the Co league. The Chairman appealed to all players to put a special effort and commitment to training. He thanked Dan Wren and the field development team for their work in Shannon Park. He also paid tribute to all involved in the lotto each week. He paid special thanks to Ned Holland, Patsy O’Connell, John Foley, Johnny Mulvihill and John Coleman for all their support during the past year. Club Secretary, Joe Langan, thanked the Chairman and all his fellow officers and the committee for their help and support in the past year. He said for the centenary year, the club must put in a big effort for all the teams, and especially the minor team who need to be well coached and supported. The Sec thanked the finance committee and said the five year plan for Shannon Park was on course. The programme of events for the centenary year will be launched at the end of January. The Sec thanked the team mentors and supporters and congratulated players who got married during the year. He extended sympathy to the people who suffered bereavements. Joint treasurer, Michael Carrig, gave a detailed account of the years income and expenses and stressed that the vital income for the club is the lottery draw. The following officers and committee were elected. President Very Rev Mossy Brick PP, vice presidents, Fr Tommy O’Hanlon, Bishop Eddie Carmody, Fr James O’Hanlon, Fr John O’Connor, Georgie O’Connell, Tommy O’Callaghan, Mossy Henchey, Dan Kiely, MCC Very Rev P O’Connell, Ritchie Lyndon, Peter Langan, Finbar Carrig. Chairman Anthony Stack, vice chair, Patrick Pattwell and Kieran Walsh. Secretary, Joe Langan, Asst Sec, Patricia Griffin. Joint treasurers, Michael Carrig and Joe Langan, town. Registrar Danny Enright, Dev Officer Dan Wren. Scor officer, Micheal Lanigan. PRO Finbar Carrig. Co Board Delegate, John O’Connor. N Kerry Board delegates, Patsy O’Connell and Sec Joe Langan. Committee members, Johnny Wren, Patrick Carmody, Eamon Egan, James Carrig, Tom Stack, Sean Egan, John Diggins and John O’Sullivan. 
