sport gaa
{  
    November 17 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-end-thugs-law-25922479.html }
ACCORDING to reports in various media outlets the GAA is said to be  "seriously concerned" about the incident in Croke Park lately when two plain clothes  gardaí tried to interview Down footballer James McCartan as he left a meeting of the  Games' Administration Committee. Apparently protests from the GAA were forwarded to the Garda authorities and a lot of well-known GAA officers were said to be very upset at this 'unwelcome development'. The player had been summoned before the GAC in relation to an alleged assault on a young Westmeath player during a challenge game last May between Down and Westmeath. The assaulted player, Kenny Larkin, suffered a broken jaw in the incident. A Down referee officiated at the game but sent in no report of the incident and after Westmeath got onto the GAC, that body started an investigation - in slow motion. Eventually, six months later, the GAC got round to interviewing people and that's why the Down player was in Croke Park a couple of weeks ago. As with all people who have their jaw broken, Kenny Larkin suffered a great deal after the incident. He would have been taking food through a straw for many weeks, he forfeited any chance of playing for Westmeath in the 2003 championship and as a trainee Garda, he could easily have forfeited that particular career but he didn't. I am not writing this article to fight the case for either party since I have absolutely no information about what actually happened that evening. What concerns me is that there should be so much 'shock and awe' at the very notion of gardaí sticking their noses into the affair. But then there is a great and long-standing tradition in the GAA, as in many other sports, which is used to absolve people who behave like thugs so long as they are wearing a jersey and shorts and are taking part in a sporting fixture. It does not of course apply in sport universally and no later than last week the Leeds United footballer Alan Smith was actually arrested by police because he threw back a bottle which had been thrown onto the pitch when he was playing for Leeds. You just couldn't imagine that happening in Gaelic games - the arrest I mean. That has been a major factor in the emergence of the 'Hard Man' in GAA games right from the start of the association over 100 years ago. Certain players achieved national or local notoriety because they behaved regularly on the GAA pitch in a manner that would have seen them arrested and charged had they done the same things in the street, at work, in the home or outside a pub. So very quickly the myth grew up in the GAA particularly that when you went onto a playing field, you left the laws of the land behind you in the dressing room. As long as you were taking part in a match you had a licence to kick opponents, box them in the face, strike them with a hurley and generally behave like a savage. Thankfully the vast, vast majority of GAA players did not do so. But a tiny minority always did take that poetic licence and a tiny minority still do so to this day. In the GAA there was a sort of general absolution extended to players who assaulted opponents by the great unwritten rule: 'Whatever happens on the playing field should be left on the playing field'. Some of the written rules of the GAA were often used to impose suspensions on violent players but that only added to their notoriety by confirming in the minds of some people at least that they really were 'hard men'. Any person who follows GAA games regularly will have been at matches where vicious assaults took place. They will have witnessed mini-riots in the sideline at club games. Some will have witnessed referees being struck after games, something which has happened on several occasions in the year 2003 for instance. At many of these games there were uniformed gardaí in attendance, often on official duty. And I am sure I am not the only one to have wondered from time to time why, when serious assaults were taking place on or off the field, those gardaí did not intervene as they would have done had they been on duty in any village, town or city and observed people being assaulted. Were gardaí instructed not to intervene at GAA events when they saw people being assaulted or mini-riots taking place on the sideline? Is there an opt-out in the laws of this country which allows people to be assaulted at GAA games without having any recourse to the laws of the state to protect them? In short, are GAA and some other sports grounds no-go areas for An Garda Síochána, by mutual agreement? With this long history of Garda non-involvement in lawbreaking on GAA pitches, it is easy to understand why there was such consternation at high levels in the GAA over the recent Garda incident in Croke Park. There was added intrigue attached to the affair because McCartan comes from outside the jurisdiction of the Gardaí and because the Westmeath player is now himself a trainee garda. There was therefore enough material there to keep the GAA rumour-machine in overdrive for several months. That is the frivolous side of the issue. Much more serious is the whole issue of gardaí attending GAA matches, observing assaults taking place and doing nothing about it. There is a lot of nonsense talked about 'a man's game' and what happens in sport should be kept in sport, etc. Breaking a man's jaw is not sport, as is often the case, when it happens 'off the ball'. It is a crime, plain and simple. Indeed, people who partake in sport should be more disciplined and restrained than non-sportspeople because of their training so they should be setting higher standards than people in the street. A broken jaw, of which there seems to be an inordinate number in the GAA, is a terrible injury because of the pain it causes and the disruption to the life of the victim for such a long time. It is noteworthy that on the rare enough occasions when GAA players take civil actions against opponents for assault, the court verdict usually goes in favour of the victim. It is a sad fact from the GAA's viewpoint that despite the great progress made in Gaelic football and hurling in recent years through better coaching, organisation and refereeing there are still far too many assaults taking place on then field of play of a serious nature. Maybe, since the best efforts of the GAA itself have failed to eradicate this thuggery from their games, it is time to review the role of gardaí at GAA events. Rather than expressing concern at the recent happening in Croke Park, the GAA might be wiser to develop a better liaison with Garda authorities. This could give the GAA extra power to deal with the sporadic outbreaks of violence at games in addition to the GAA's own rule-book, the Official Guide, which has so far failed to eliminate the problem completely. 
