sport gaa
{  
    March 09 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/open-croker-is-a-shut-case-25993939.html }
IRRESPECTIVE of the pressure that comes on the GAA to open to Croke Park for international rugby and soccer internationals, Presidential candidate, Christy Cooney insists that it should remain locked, even during the period while Lansdowne Road is being redeveloped. In what will be regarded as a significant boost for the "no change" camp, Cooney contends that if Croke Park were opened up for rugby and soccer internationals, it would be impossible for the GAA to uphold a different policy for its county and club grounds all over the country. "It would create a split right down the middle of the Association," he warned. Nor does he favour transferring the power to amend Rule 42 (which governs the use of GAA property) from Congress to Central Council, as proposed by several counties and supported by his Presidential rival, Nickey Brennan. In an exclusive interview with the Irish Independent, Cooney said he had been consistently opposed to opening up Croke Park and nothing had happened in recent times to encourage him to change his mind. "I believe that Croke Park is a unique GAA brand and that's why I want to retain the status quo. That has always been my opinion so I'm totally consistent on the issue. My view is that Croke Park should stay as it is, a GAA stadium, run by the GAA for GAA games," said Cooney, who on April 16 will go head to head with Brennan in a Congress vote for the Presidency. Cooney is adamant that if Croke Park were opened to soccer and rugby, the pressure on the GAA to make similar concessions at grounds around the country would become intolerable. "You can't separate Croke Park from the rest of the GAA's assets and grounds. It's not practical to ring fence it, as has been suggested. You would have a situation in a local community where you'd be told that if it was OK to open Croke Park it should be in order to open the local GAA pitch. That would have all sorts of serious implications for the GAA," he said. Calls to open Croke Park for the duration of the Lansdowne road redevelopment have been increasing in recent months but Cooney opposes that on the basis that if the rule were changed it would be impossible to re-introduce it at a later stage. "It's all or nothing. If the rule is changed, it's changed and there can be no going back. That's why I believe it should remain as it is. I also feel that it's a decision for Congress, not Central Council. I have total respect for the members of Central Council but this is a major policy issue which should be dealt with by Congress and not handed over to another body." Cooney accepts that there would be a negative PR spin-off towards the GAA if Ireland's rugby and soccer internationals had to be played in Britain while Lansdowne Road was being redeveloped but he does not regard that as sufficient reason to open Croke Park. "I want to make it perfectly clear that my viewpoint has nothing to do with disliking rugby or soccer. Far from it. I wish them and all other sports the best and watch them on TV when I get a chance. However, the management of other sports is the responsibility of their organisations. They have to do what's in their best interests just as we have to do what's right for the GAA. "As I see it, our job is to defend our brand image. It's also a question of protecting our Association and of maintaining market share. We don't have to be all things to all people. If soccer and rugby internationals are played in Croke Park, will it be regarded as a GAA stadium or a National Stadium? Croke Park has always been the icon of the GAA and I believe that our aim should be to get more of our own players - at both club and county level - playing there and not offering to rent it to others," he said. Cooney also questions why the GAA is being put under such pressure to open Croke Park when neither the IRFU nor the FAI has asked to use it. He also believes that with uncertainty still surrounding the Lansdowne Road redevelopment timetable, much of the discussion about Croke Park is hypothetical. "We're under no obligation to share our facilities. Instead of getting credit for having the vision and the courage to take on the redevelopment of Croke Park, we're being told that having built one of the finest stadiums in the world, we should share it with others. When we were redeveloping Croke Park, we carried on using it and, of course, we were also able to use our other fine grounds around the country. Maybe with a bit of foresight by the other associations, they could have planned something similar years back." Cooney argues that if rugby and soccer were allowed in Croke Park, it could lead to cracks in the GAA's amateur wall. "If GAA players saw professional soccer and rugby players in Croke Park, they might well ask, why aren't we being paid? The GAA has built a fantastic network of grounds and facilities right throughout the country, mostly from its own resources and through voluntary endeavour. Croke Park is at the top of that pyramid and stands as a monument to the community spirit our Association engenders. Why should we give our grounds to others sports when it's part of our ideology and ethos that it shouldn't happen? Why should we bear the brunt of pressure for a situation that's not of our making? Cooney dismisses the argument that Croke Park is under-utilised, pointing out that there were 28 double fixtures there last year. "How many games were played in Lansdowne Road or on Premiership grounds in England last year? The notion that Croke Park is underused is a figment of people's imagination. Besides, if we are to play more games there, they should involve our own hurlers and footballers. I want to stress that my views have nothing to do with being anti other sports. As I see it, the GAA has a duty to promote and develop its own sports and I believe that retaining Croke Park as the Mecca for our members helps achieve that. I know that having developed such a wonderful stadium, we're the envy of others but we have to think of ourselves and what's good for our Association now and into the future," he said. Referring to the recent controversy over whether calls for a change of Rule 42 were properly in order for Congress, he said it was outrageous that the Motions Committee, comprised mainly of former Presidents, were wrongly castigated. "These are men of the highest integrity who have contributed enormously to the GAA all their lives and the idea that they would deliberately attempt to keep any motion off the Congress agenda is an insult to their integrity. If they said a motion wasn't in order then we can take it that was the case." He also warns that any attempt to coerce the GAA into changing its stance on the use of Croke Park will be strongly resisted. "The GAA will never be bullied. Congress has always shown that it's capable of making decisions in the best interests of the Association and I'm sure that will continue. I am against any change in Rule 42 but I will accept whatever decision Congress reaches. That's the way we do business in the GAA and it has stood us well for more than a century."  Cooney factfile Age: 52 Club: Youghal Administration Career: Former Youghal, Cork County Board, Munster Council Chairman. Former member of Management and various other top-ranking committees at county, provincial and national level. Current Youghal club chairman. Occupation: Assistant Direct General with Fás. Member of VHI Board.  Christy Cooney on... THE EXPERIMENTAL RULES 'We should have been experimenting in the 2004 Leagues, knowing that 2005 was a rule-changing year. As it is, we will have to make decisions, based on experiments that are being carried out in the League, even before the competition is over. The changeover between the sin bin and the yellow cards caused huge confusion. I believe there is no need to change the rules in hurling. In football, I'd be concerned that the direct pick-up will increase hand passing and soloing while kicking skills lose out.' PROFESSIONALISM IN THE GAA 'Not a runner because the GAA couldn't afford it. Even if we could, it would destroy the club scene because county players would no longer play for their clubs on a regular basis. Look at how club rugby has lost out in a professional era. By all means, look after our players properly but pay-for-pay is not on but then the majority of GAA players aren't even looking for it.' GPA & PLAYER RELATIONS 'I want the players to be represented at the highest level but it would have to be on a formal basis. I would deal with the GPA only if they came under our auspices. For as long they're outside the GAA, they can't be officially recognised. I believe that most player issues have been sorted out but we need to keep monitoring it constantly. There's scope for a players' body but it has to be inside rather than outside the GAA.' HURLING & ITS PROBLEMS 'We keep hearing of how few teams can hope to win the All-Ireland but was it any difference 30 years ago? There are more counties in contention for major honours now than then. Obviously we have to continue promoting and developing the game through coaching and various other initiatives but we must always be positive and remember what a fantastic game we have.' DISCIPLINE 'We need to get away from a situation where courts are making decisions for us. There are proposals to separate discipline from fixture-making at GAC level and also to introduce an arbitration system. The GAC has often been unfairly criticised in the past when, in fact, they were operating within the rules. There's an onus on us to ensure that those bringing appeals are properly versed in the procedures involved. With lots of new people coming in as officers over the next few years, it's important that we make things as simple as possible so that they don't get caught up in technicalities.' WHY HE WANTS TO BE PRESIDENT 'I have significant senior management experience which I believe is important. I believe that I can bring to the position a lot of clear thinking and the broad management expertise required to lead the association into the future. I have a vision for the GAA and I also know how to put a strategy in place to deliver on that vision. I'm up front and I'll call it as it is.'  Martin Breheny  Click here to get the best in-play betting with Betfair 
