sport gaa
{  
    October 15 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eugene-mcgee/recognition-of-player-power-key-to-ending-this-stand-off-26324963.html }
There is no love lost between the GAA and the GPA and the current verbal confrontations between the two groups over the payment of government-financed grants to inter-county players is just the latest manifestation of that. In the GAA world there are three major groupings, the players, the elected officers and the supporters. The players, in general, are in favour of the GPA and what it is attempting to DO in the way of getting ever-increasing facilities and better conditions for all players, club and county. So far it is mainly county players who have benefited from the GPA's efforts, but club players are at least hopeful that their problems will be addressed too -- sometime. The vast majority of elected GAA officers at all levels would be against the GPA and it is important to state that because when most of these officers speak in public they give the opposite impression. But they are being hypocritical in the main, because officers have always been wary at the very least about players in the GAA scheme of things. One hundred years of players being seen but not heard has led many officers to believe that this was a permanent way of life for GAA people and they see no reason to change their attitude which can best be summed up as "Lads you just go out and play the football and hurling and leave the running of the GAA to us." The first major jolt GAA officers got to this cosy set-up was when the Cork hurlers took strike action a few years ago. That such a thing could occur in Cork of all places where the County Board was always in total control and Frank Murphy was the most powerful GAA officer in the country rattled a lot of GAA officers elsewhere. When the action of the hurlers ultimately ended in victory and laid the foundation for one of the most successful eras in Cork hurling in modern times, then some of the more perceptive GAA officers around the country realised that things were about to change. They would have to start listening, at least, to those pesky GPA people in order to avoid Cork-like confrontations in several other counties. So at the top level the GAA began to make soothing noises about the GPA , saying it was nice to see players getting organised and sure weren't we all in favour of players having the very best in every way. Of course we were! But behind this veneer of acceptance of player-power everybody knew that, in reality, a war of attrition had begun between two of the three sections of the GAA, the officer corps and the players. Like any such war, the tempo varies all the time. We have had several temporary truces, during which things are all lovey-dovey, but more often relations between the two groups have been frosty at best. When GAA officers started a rearguard action to discredit the GPA, they used as their main weapon the claim that the GPA was merely a front for securing pay-for-play for inter-county players because they knew that was a non-runner with the third section of the GAA -- the supporters. But at the same time, the GAA itself moved to channel some financial perks to players by changing rules to allow them do endorsements, and the like, and paying the players for promotional work for the GAA, which was a major concession. That was an attempt to kill with kindness and it certainly softened the cough of the GPA for a while. But then the GPA people managed to convince the last government that, as elite athletes, inter-county players deserved to benefit from government grants for sports people just as hundreds of people from numerous other sports have done in recent years. This was a major achievement by the GPA which certainly added to the status of county players. The GAA itself, of course, had received countless millions from State funds over the past 25 years, but that all went into coaching and development, and none went to the players directly. So one-up for the GPA. Or so it seemed. Minister John O'Donoghue, who understood the GAA better than most politicians, agreed to make €5m available in grants to county players in hurling and football in every county in the land. This would have seen players getting between €1000 and €2500 each, not earth-shattering but at least official recognition of their status as elite sports people. But this was where the official GAA got edgy and were terrified that if they, themselves, handled such payments they would be setting out on the road to pay-for-play. So the GAA told the GPA that the money would have to be disbursed through some other agency outside the GAA such as the government itself or through the Irish Sports Council. This pass-the-parcel carry-on has been going on now for a year or more, and the change of government has not help as new minister Seamus Brennan needed time to get up to speed on his new brief as Minister for Sport. Nickey Brennan last week made it clear very forcibly that the GAA, officially, will not taint its amateur image by paying out the government grant. This evoked a charge of scare mongering from one of the toughest GPA officers, Donal Og Cusack from Cork, who made the very valid point that all inter-county players are also club players . There have been attempts by some GAA officers to split the GPA by claiming they was only interested in county players and did not give a damn about club players. This past week, the word 'strike' came back into the debate from several GPA members following four provincial meetings, at which many players expressed their anger at the play-acting that has gone on regarding the €5m. At the same time, Aaron Kernan of Armagh implied that the players would look like spoiled children if they were to go on strike, so there are obviously divided opinions on the matter in the GPA. The Chief Executive of the GPA Dessie Farrell, said last week: "The time for talking is over. We've negotiated, we've discussed, we have bent over backwards. We've been amenable, we've acquiesced, we've gone around the houses on this particular issue and yet it hasn't been implemented. So players have just said 'enough is enough'." A players strike is the ultimate weapon available to the GPA, but it is a tactic fraught with risk. Many of their own members may not run with the idea. But the bigger risk is that it would alienate the GAA supporter section, although in relation to this particular issue of government money being available but not being distributed, it is likely that the fans would back the players. Maybe this latest GAA-GPA spat will bring the GAA to its senses and they will take steps to formally recognise the GPA as an official negotiating body for all players. Whether the GAA likes it or not, player-power is a a fact of GAA life. But overriding everything else is the absolute paranoia among GAA officers regarding anything that might be seen to even acknowledge the possibility of pay-for-play. Managers and coaches can get paid, so can all the full-time GAA officials around the country, but never a player. That is why €5m has been lying idle for a year when it should have been in the back pockets of inter-county player -- in EVERY county, not just the successful ones. 
