sport gaa
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    March 29 2014 10:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/eamonn-sweeney-begrudgery-at-the-heart-of-it-30138429.html }
I like Jerry Kiernan. I respect Jerry Kiernan. He is an intelligent and perceptive commentator on athletics and enjoyed an honourable career in the sport himself. Any man who finishes ninth in the greatest Olympic Marathon ever and who ran 46 minutes for ten miles and under four minutes for one mile has achieved something of genuine substance. That's why I wish he'd stop making a donkey out of himself because of his obsession with doing down the GAA. It seems beneath his dignity somehow. But that doesn't stop him. Last year he laid into inter-county players, declaring: "I don't particularly like the GAA. I don't like football in particular. I don't think there's much to it but I watched some of the National League games over the weekend and what struck me was how unfit the players were." He added: "We're giving so much prominence to a sport that I feel doesn't deserve it. I don't have a high opinion of their fitness or their commitment to fitness . . . I believe that GAA people live in a cloistered world, don't think about what they do and they tell themselves that they're training hard." Back then, Kiernan's ire was provoked by the payment of grants to inter-county players. And last week, when he heard that the government had given a €600,000 grant to redevelop the London grounds in Ruislip, the Kerryman went back on the warpath. "I don't believe that the GAA should get any amount of taxpayers' money. They're the richest association in the country. They get everything," Kiernan told Newstalk. As well as disparaging the skills and fitness of footballers and hurlers and observing that, "The GAA is largely a local organisation, the standards required to play in it; there's not an awful lot required," the former Olympian claimed that other sports are being damaged by government funding of the GAA. "€600,000 is not a huge amount of money but it's a lot of money that could be used in certain areas. In one of my training groups tonight, there's a kid coming up from Athlone and he'll spend €15 on the bus. He's a sub-four-minute miler, he gets no state money, he gets nothing like that," said Kiernan. "There are standards applied for getting money in international sport. There is no standard applied to the GAA getting money except their popularity." One problem with Kiernan's argument is that the last sentence there isn't the killer point he thinks it is. Because in a democracy popularity is a perfectly good basis on which to allocate sports funding. In fact, it may well be the best basis of all. I have no doubt about the excellence of the Athlone athlete Kiernan mentions. But it's legitimate to question what use funding elite athletes is to the general population. Suppose that €600,000 was taken away from the GAA and given to 30 promising athletes. Where's the benefit for the wider community? The redevelopment of the grounds at Ruislip will benefit hundreds, maybe thousands, of people who'll use the facility. Give that money to individual athletes and they are the only ones who benefit. (The fact that the grounds are in London doesn't matter. Kiernan didn't bring it up and he'd presumably be just as unimpressed were the funding going to Kerry or Waterford. Anyway the contribution of exiles to not just the GAA but the country in general should have been recognised long ago.) I believe that elite athletes should be funded by the state and their pursuit of excellence recognised. But it's a lot harder to argue for that funding than it is for funding which will benefit grassroots sport. Most competitors in any sport will never reach the heights attained by Jerry Kiernan or the promising young athletes he trains, but this doesn't mean they're less entitled to funding. In fact, given that they comprise the majority of sportspeople, they're more entitled. A major objective of national sports funding is to improve the general health and fitness of the population, something best achieved by using quantity of participation rather than quality of performance as a yardstick. The GAA happens to be the most popular sporting organisation in the country and this has to be taken into account when the money is being allocated. Kiernan's assertion that as many people compete in athletics as hurling and football simply isn't true. As a former schoolboy athlete who loves the sport, I wish it was. But it's not. What about the much-repeated claim that the GAA is awash with money and can afford to fund any possible development anywhere off its own bat? Again, simply not true. It never was and the contention rings particularly hollow at a time when Croke Park is having to bail out county boards on the brink of bankruptcy. Above all, it's contrary to the experience of people in clubs up and down the country who are out in all weathers selling tickets, who are racking their brains to think of fundraising ventures to alleviate the financial pressure and who depend mightily on an enormous reservoir of unpaid volunteers. Volunteers, by the way, who make up a substantial section of the taxpayers on whose behalf Jerry Kiernan is so keen to take up the cudgels. Most GAA people will, I think, echo the sentiments of London football manager Paul Coggins who said, "I knew of Jerry Kiernan growing up and he was a fantastic ambassador for Irish sport. I have the height of respect for him as an athlete but I think he's wrong. It's not a well-thought-out statement. Give the grant to us, don't begrudge us and wish us well as we wish everyone well in whatever sport they compete in." It's a dignified and decent response and its use of the B word gets to the heart of the controversy. Because it's hard not to see Jerry Kiernan's attitude as being at some level motivated by begrudgery. In his great Ireland 1912-1985, historian Joe Lee ponders the prevalence of this phenomenon in Irish society and suggests it comes about because the smallness of the country meant that anyone who didn't get something knew of someone who did and felt jealous of them. That attitude continues to bedevil Irish life and sport is not immune to its unlovely effects. Last weekend I was looking up the Cork GAA twitter page to see how Castlehaven under 21s were getting on against Bandon when I noticed the site had retweeted someone's claim that the magnificent El Clásico of the previous night wasn't really much good at all. Whoever looks after that page does a fine job normally but that retweet came across as petty. Petty like the authors of the Irish rugby report of last year which maintained that their sport would sweep all others aside because of its moral superiority and the soccer fans who make cracks about 'bog ball' and 'stick fighting,' and anyone who thinks you show your love for your own favourite sport not by praising it but by denigrating other sports. Petty like Jerry Kiernan. It's time we realised that we're all in the same boat. Because it's not the €600,000 which went to the GAA Jerry Kiernan should be worrying about, it's the €86m spent by Irish Water on consultancy fees, the €3.3m spent on a State Pathology Office which never got built, the €4m given in foreign aid to Uganda without a receipt which was subsequently stolen. There's your real enemies right there, Jerry. That's who's doing your four-minute miler out of his fair share. And for God's sake man will you lighten up about the GAA. You're right, no GAA player is as fit as a top athlete. But how many of those athletes can kick points like Colm Cooper, score goals like Shane O'Donnell or make saves like Stephen Cluxton? Or for that matter drive a horse home like Tony McCoy, land a punch like Katie Taylor, break a tackle like Brian O'Driscoll, steer a boat like Annalise Murphy, sink a putt like Rory McIlroy or strike a boundary like Kevin O'Brien. There's room for everyone. backpage@independent.ie Believe the hype – it will be massive A Vision Of The Future. "Welcome back to Park Sharon McDiawara in Carrick-on-Shannon for this Sky Sports Super Sunday clash between Leitrim and Roscommon in what is a HUUUGE game for both teams. An awful lot at stake here, Gary." "Yeah, the winners will go on to get hammered by Mayo while the losers will have to face into an away match against Waterford. So you've got to say it's winner takes all." "A good first half for Leitrim." "They've done ever so well. But they always say that 2-7 to 1-5 is the most dangerous lead in Gaelic football." "Graeme, was that a sending off for you?" "Not for me, no. I think he's clipped him alright but the boy's made the most of it. It's creeping into our game. I blame the influence of those foreign players, from Tyrone and Londonderry. And disappointing to see the Roscommon players crowding round the ref. Sad to see players trying to get their fellow amateurs in trouble." "If I may, we're just going to go over to Jim White who's at O'Moore Park. Any developments Jim?" "Not at the moment. As the transfer window clock ticks down, I can report that there's been no sign of Seánie Johnston in Portlaoise. There have been reports that he's been sighted in Kerry and also in Donegal but at the moment it looks like he's staying put in wherever he is at the moment." "Thanks Jim. Jamie, Emlyn Mulligan's been doing well for Leitrim at top of the left." "Triffic. Yeah, he's a top, top, top of the left. He literally owes Leitrim nothing at this stage." "We'll take a look at the replay. Jamie Carragher, is that a 45 for you?" "It's a nailed-on stonewall 45. You can see why managers get upset. They just want a bit of consistency. That's the kind of thing that could cost someone their job if Gaelic football managers actually got paid which they don't obviously." "Who's impressed you on the Leitrim team first half, Paul Merson?" "Mo-RAN in midfield. And their number five, not sure I can pronounce the name. B-b-b . . ." "Brennan." "Jamie Redknapp, have Leitrim surprised you?" "Well, they've literally come in under the radar and they've literally been waiting in the long grass for Roscommon." "Leitrim are the noisy neighbours, aren't they? Hang on, I can hear Charlie Nicholas shouting like a mad person being stung by a wasp on the other side of the studio. A point for Carlow, Charlie?" "Unbelievable stuff here. I thought the referee was going to give a free to Wexford 55 yards out but he's decided to hop the ball instead." "Amazing Charlie. Keep us posted on how that develops. And wake Thompson up, he hasn't screamed in ten minutes. Wexford's last wide, by the way, is their 3,751st since 1975. Jamie, are you sticking with Roscommon?" "Well, they've literally got the wind in the second half. But it's anyone's game." "That's the magic of the Connacht championship quarter-final. Back to Martin Tyler in Catterick-on-Shoreham." "Would you BELIEVE it? FINNNNNNNNNNNNNERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRAN. He's won the throw-in." "Triffic." Real treat in store for book lovers The Boys of Summer is sportswriting's Sergeant Pepper, its War and Peace, its Citizen Kane. It was written in 1972 by Roger Kahn, a New York journalist who covered the fortunes of the Brooklyn Dodgers baseball team in the early 1950s. The book combined his memories of those days with his account of tracking down the retired players two decades later. Kahn is a fine writer but what makes the book so special is the Dodgers themselves. They were the most entertaining team of their era but kept coming up short of a World Series victory, losing four times between 1947 and 1953 to their neighbours, the mighty New York Yankees, before breaking through in 1955. Then there's the fact that they were the team which broke the colour bar in baseball by giving Jackie Robinson the chance to become the first black player in the major leagues. So the racial drama of America is present. As is the knowledge that after 1957 the Brooklyn Dodgers were no more, the owner having moved the franchise to Los Angeles, thus giving the story that compellingly elegiac feel common to tales of vanished empires. This is a book you should read. It will stay with you forever. The good news is that it's currently in Irish bookshops. That's down to the English publisher Aurum Press who've released it as part of Sports Classics, a series so fine any thinking sports fan should snaffle up the entire handsome collection which also includes three other books that rank near the top in their respective sports, Arthur Hopcraft's The Football Man, John Reason's How We Beat The All Blacks (about the 1971 Lions tour) and Derek Birley's A Social History of English Cricket, as well as John Pearson's extraordinary account of Malcolm Campbell's attempt at the world land speed record in 1964, The Bluebird and The Dead Lake. With a second set of classics primed to go in May, this is the publishing equivalent of ESPN's 30 for 30 series. Treat yourself. Sunday Indo Sport 
