sport gaa
{  
    March 03 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaas-sporting-agenda-points-the-way-26239704.html }
NORTHERN NOTEBOOK, TERRY McLOUGHLIN WITHOUT a ball being kicked in the European 2008 European football championships already there has been a clear winner. The GAA has shown again that when it sets out to achieve the high moral ground it can scale the most difficult of obstacles. Of course there was political pressure. Of course there were financial sweeteners in the last couple of years in the context of grant aid for the development of Croke Park. The GAA will argue, and argue with great vehemence, that it was not coloured by those factors in making its historic decision to allow, in effect, the doors of its playing headquarters to be opened in order to accommodate soccer. Perhaps that really was the case. Perhaps not. But it really doesn't matter. What does matter is that all those who love sport, who have a pride in the heritage and symbolism and the actuality of a new Ireland, can look forward to the Nation's main sports arena playing a pivotal role in one of the world's major sporting occasions. It has also helped continue the propulsion of the GAA to the forefront of the sporting pack. They are the pacesetters, the main agenda writers. Much more importantly they have shown supreme political expertise in delivering an agenda that can only be for the good of sport. The speed of change has been immense. Last November it had the courage to ditch Rule 21. It has received almost universal acclaim for its decision to shatter the mould of sporting politics in Ireland. In recent weeks we have seen a Minister of the Northern Ireland Assembly, a man from the Ulster Unionist party, as the main guest at an anniversary dinner of one of the most prestigious clubs in Ulster. It didn't matter that a series of bomb hoaxes ruled out the speech Mr McGmpsey was to give in Enniskillen. For the message had got through, to even the most bigoted and recalcitrant of the Wrap the Green Flag Around Me, Friday night Nationalists and Republicans that things have changed utterly and irrevocably. That message was reiterated last weekend at the Ulster Convention of the GAA in Belfast. The address given to the assembled delegates by the Lord Mayor of Belfast, Jim Rodgers, was another ground breaking move. The fact that it was not commented upon more was, in one sense, a pity. In another sense, however, it was the most potent example possible that we are moving rapidly forward in terms of maturity in the North. Mr Rodgers spoke of his love for sport, all sports. He never once tried to make any sort of political capital out of the fact that he was the first Honorary Secretary of the Ulster Unionist Party to address the GAA. While it might not be recognised as being any big deal in other parts of this island, the positive response to the massive bridge building exercise that the GAA embarked upon last November, has been breathtaking. Just think about it. We have students in the new Police Force of Northern Ireland wanting to play in competitions organised by the GAA. We have Government Ministers of a Unionist persuasion being delighted to attend a GAA dinner. We have one of the most influential power brokers within the Unionist Party expressing his pride as First Citizen of Belfast in attending a GAA Convention. It is right to acknowledge these fundamental shifts in attitude as being the seed corn of a more progressive and enlightened future. But the sooner they become more an indication of how normal people, with differing political and cultural backgrounds, can interact as human beings, the better. Certainly the momentum for change, the desire for progress would appear to have a receptive and sympathetic sounding board within the GAA. Once regarded as the most fundamentalist of sporting organisations, the Gaelic Athletic Association has now shown a radical and refreshing willingness to accommodate the collective sporting desire of the entire continent of Europe. Of course there is absolutely no guarantee that the joint bid by the Scottish and Irish Football Associations will be eventually rubber stamped by UEFA. But in terms of positive publicity and marketing, the generosity of spirit shown by the GAA in allowing the facilities at Croke Park to be used for a game that was not so long ago regarded as a so-called foreign sport, the returns will be enormous. For while the GAA can talk all about the fact that its games are played in over 50 countries world wide, and although they can point to the tremendous success of the Compromise Rule test series against Australia, outside Ireland the image of the GAA has been limited. The decision to allow the outside sporting world sample the fantastic stadium reality that is the new Croke Park, before a world wide audience running into countless millions is the only sane one that could have been made. For the GAA hierarchy to have turned its back, because of antiquated so-called principles, on the opportunity to showcase its premier pitch to the world would have been a sporting crime of appalling magnitude. The reality is that the GAA can now start preparing for a share of the lucrative financial spin-offs that will inevitably follow in the wake of its historic decision. By allowing soccer to be played at Croke Park, the GAA will be presented with the financial funding to further underpin its role as Ireland's dominant sporting organisation. 
