sport gaa
{  
    January 31 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/millennium-sees-end-of-soccer-for-croker-row-26127730.html }
By EUGENE McGEE    BERTIE AHERN did Danny Lynch a good turn last week and God knows if you are PRO for the GAA you can always do with a good turn. BERTIE AHERN did Danny Lynch a good turn last week and God knows if you are PRO for the GAA you can always do with a good turn. When our Taoiseach confirmed that the government was going to spend unlimited amounts of money on building a new super-stadium in a part of Dublin that most people never even knew existed, he killed off one of the most recurrent problems that Lynch has had to deal with in recent years. `Why will the GAA not allow soccer to be played in Croke Park?' is the question which must have been the bane of Danny Lynch's life since he took up the job of PRO. At times it was a question that was used as a stick to beat the GAA with and particularly a couple of years ago when the government of Bertie Ahern announced that they were going to give £20 million towards the redevelopment of Croke Park. Even when GAA officials explained to media people for the umpteenth time that the GAA has never been asked to make their ground available for soccer, even at the height of the Jack Charlton love-in, the questions still persisted, the implication being that somehow the GAA owed soccer a living. That'll be the day! Now with the announcement of the Millennium Stadium and the decision of the FAI to build their own soccer stadium, there will never be any need to ask the question of the GAA again. Indeed much more likely is a different question in a few years time if and when all the sporting edifices are completed, Croke Park, Millennium Stadium and Eircom Stadium. I am predicting now that when we reach that happy time in Irish sport the question being asked of the GAA will be: Why won't the GAA play some of its big matches in Millennium Stadium?' It's as stupid a question as the one that has been in vogue in recent years but then when was stupidity a barrier to asking difficult questions of the GAA? If the present plans of the leading sports bodies stay in place over the next ten years it looks as if Millennium Stadium itself will become one of Ireland's greatest white elephants of modern times. If there is no soccer or GAA played there the place will never be filled unless there is a renaissance of monumental proportions in Irish rugby or the Pope starts coming to Ireland every year. Of course, there is much more to the proposed development than aiming for full houses of 80,000 and we should not judge the proposal simply by that criteria. IT is difficult to see how or why the GAA would play any of its major games in the new stadium. Indeed one of the big problems facing the people who will have to manage the newly refurbished Croke Park when it is finished in a few years time is to get enough big matches and other events in the place to enable it to pay its way. The infamous back-door system in the hurling championship was a device which has yielded a boost to annual attendances by providing more attractive quarter-finals. But unless there is a drastic change to the manner in which the closing stages of the All-Ireland football series is played off the scope for having more big matches in Croke park is virtually nil. In that context it is hard to see how or why the GAA would play any matches in Millennium Stadium. It is of course very costly to play games in Croke Park because of the huge manpower needed at organisational level, and therefore the Croke Park limited company charges very high rent to bodies such as the Leinster Council and Central Council for staging games there. In theory it is possible that the rent for Millennium Stadium could be much lower but still it is hard to see the Leinster Council staging a Leinster final in Dunsink while Croke Park lies idle. Dublin County Board would not be interested either because the revamped Parnell Park can cater for their club and National League crowds so where will there be any GAA games found for the new stadium? It is no secret that successive governments have attempted to get the GAA to have a different attitude to staging soccer games in their grounds than they have now through the rule in the Official Guide which specifically outlaws soccer in GAA grounds. But the government pleading fell on deaf ears within the GAA despite that carrot of £20 million. In latter times GAA officials have been saying that it would not make sense to give their grounds to a rival sports organisation with which the GAA is in competition for the hearts and minds of young Irish people. Nobody really believes that is the real reason of course but it sounds good. What the arrival of Millennium Stadium will do is to copper-fasten still further the ghetto-isation of the three biggest field games in this country. The rugby matches will be played in the new stadium, the soccer matches in Eircom Stadium and the GAA games will stay in Croke Park. The dream of Ireland having a French-type stadium which would house major events from the leading sports will remain a dream. AND many GAA diehards will sleep easy in their beds, as the mere thought of a big GAA game being played on a ground that has been used for soccer and rugby is enough to make these dinosaurs reach for the sick bag. At the moment most people are saying that it is the rugby people who are the cute ones. They still have Lansdowne Road to do with it what they will but they will soon have a new home for their internationals, including any future World Cup games, which will allow them to greatly increase their revenue for such matches. But, and it is a very big `but', if the GAA wanted to be cute they too could make use of the Millennium Stadium. At present it takes far too long to play off the latter stages of the All-Irelands. THERE is usually a gap of four weeks between a provincial final and All-Ireland semi-final and the same gap for the winning semi-finalists before the final in late September. With the use of the new stadium the GAA could stage both All-Ireland semi-finals in football in Dublin on the same day, in Croke Park at 3.0pm and in Millennium Stadium at 6.0pm or thereabouts. What an opportunity that would be for travelling fans and it would allow the GAA to bring forward the All--Ireland finals to late August and early September which a lot of people favour. On the downside the long-term capacity of Croke Park to earn additional revenue will certainly be curtailed by the arrival of two new stadia in Dublin. Because the sort of non-GAA events which have been staged in Croker, concerts and the like, would be more likely to go to one of the other grounds. Any such loss of revenue would be serious for the GAA and would lessen the chances of any big GAA games being played outside of Croke Park. E-mail: emcgee@hotbot.com 
