sport gaa
{  
    February 18 2013 08:45 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/abbeydorney-all-the-news-29073552.html }
ABBEYDORNEY GAA Club 5 Year Plan: Abbeydorney Gaa Club developing a strategic 5 year plan for the future, A workshop will be held in the Community Centre Abbeydorney on Wednesday next 13th February at 7.30pm, The meeting is open to everyone to come and have their say.It is important that a large cross section of the community attend.We would especially appeal to all our new residents in the parish to come along and get involved in your new community.You will be most welcome. Bord na nOg Meeting: A Bord na nOg meeting will be held on Friday 15th February at 8pm in the GAA Clubhouse all welcome to attend. St Patrick's Day Parade: After three good meetings and a very good response from local business its full steam ahead for St Patrick's Day Parade, so all that is needed on the day will be a few stewards to help out,Our next meeting will be held on Thursday 21st February at 9pm. Allianz National Football League: Kerry Senior footballers were well beaten by Dublin 1-11 to 0-4 in Killarney on Sunday last. Allianz National Hurling League: Kerry Senior Hurlers will play Westmeath in Austin Stacks Park on Sunday 24th February at 1pm Club Football: Well done to Kenmare footballers or reaching the club All-Ireland football finals on Saturday last defeating Castleknock 1-17 to 1-12, hard luck to Finuge who were defeated by Cookstown 1-09 to 0-6 in the Intermediate All-Ireland Final. ANNASCAUL The senior team drew their second game of the West Kerry League at the weekend, 0-12 apiece with Castlegregory. Despite being down a number of players, we started well with Shane Foley and Gerard Lenihan causing the Castle fullback line problems, with Shane picking off our first score. Ball was relatively easy to come by around the middle with Eamon Lenihan and James Scanlon dominating in the air, and Genie Farrell winning the ground battles. With Genie's accuracy from dead balls adding to Gerard Lenihan's effort, we went into a 0-4 to 0-2 lead at the quarter way mark. From there we lost our way, sluggish movement in the backs allowed the visitors back into the game, as Castle led 0-7 to 0-6 at half time. We upped our effort considerably in the second half and took the lead with frees from Genie and a monster effort from Emmet Kennedy. Our fullback line tightened up, limiting Castle's chances at the other end. Our midfield and half back line provided a great barrier across the middle as we dominated possession, with David Clifford and Ger Farrelly standing out. With four minutes to go, Castle woke up and put us under major pressure, ending with a good effort from Alan Fitz to level it. Best for us were Genie Farrell, Shane Foley, Gerard Lenihan and Eamon Lenihan. TEAM: Tommy Pierce, Eoghan O Neill, Andrew Finn, David Clifford, Ger Farrelly, Eamonn Hickson (0-1) Colm Barry, Eamon Lenihan, James Scanlon, Declan Lindsey, Genie Farrell (0-7f) Gareth O Donnell (0-1), Shane Foley (0-1) Gerard Lenihan (0-1) Kenneth Quirke. PLAYING SUBS: Emmet Kennedy (0-1), John Bowler, SUBS: Daniel Flannery, Kiernan Brooks, Shane Scanlon, Stephen Pierce, Fintan Herlihy, Jaime Quirke, Jaime Finn, Fionn Coakley. We play Ghaeltacht on Gallarus next Saturday, provisionally fixed for 2pm. ARDFERT FOOTBALL CLUB JUVENILE REGISTRATION - this took place on friday night last in the Community Centre, Ardfert. A big thank you to all the parents and players who attended. There was a great response and this augurs very well for the year ahead. JUVENILE TRAINING - u12s takes place from 6pm to 7pm on saturdays in the Community Centre, Ardfert. u14s takes place on friday evenings between 6pm and 7pm in the Community Centre, Ardfert. MINOR FOOTBALL - Round 2 of Coiste Tra Li took place in Ballyrickard on Saturday last. Ardfert played against Austin Stacks who proved too fast and fit for us on the day. Ardfert did keep trying but were behind by 1.02 to 2.07 at half time. Thomas Nolan scored the goal and Jordan Brick scored two points from frees. Austin Stacks continued to dominate the second half. Final score Ardfert 1.07 Austin Stacks 3.11. Team: Kevin Hanafin, Liam Dalton, Gearoid Sheehan, Jimmy Shanahan, Dara McGarty, Jack Nevalainen, Fionn Kavanagh Ennis, Brian O'Riordan, Finan Horgan, Thomas Nolan (1.02), Cian Hussey (.01), Brendan Connor, Edward Nolan, Jordan Brick (.02f), Iarla Courtney. Subs: Paudie Carroll (.02) for Jimmy Shanahan, Jimmy Shanahan for Edward Nolan. Ardfert will play Kerins O'Rahillys at home on saturday next at 4pm. SENIORS - For the second week running the Brendans Board competition did not take place. This sunday, feb 17th we are scheduled to play John Mitchells in Ardfert at 4pm. DEFIBRILLATOR TRAINING - Just to remind all those involved with teams, including players, that this training will commence shortly. Please contact co-ordinator Maurice J Harmon on 0876564707. MEMBERSHIP - This is currently being collected by Club Registrar Maurice J Harmon. He can be contacted on the above mobile number. VALENTINES WISHES to all our members young and not so young! ST. BRENDAN'S HURLING CLUB: CROKE PARK CELEBRATING 100 YEARS: Throughout 2013 Croke Park will celebrate 100 years as "Home of the GAA". A series of events and activities will be organised to mark this celebration encouraging members and supporters to share their memories and stories about Croke Park. Check out the website www.crokepark.ie/100 years for further information. Please note the website will go live on February 1. The Kerry hurlers take on Westmeath at home on Sunday 24th Feb. in Rd. 1 of the Allianz National Hurling League. In Rd. 2 they are away to Laois, Rd. 3 at home to Wicklow, Rd. 4 away to Kildare and Rd. 5 at home to Derry. The Christy Ring campaign begins on May 4th with an away game for Kerry to Down. We wish all involved with Kerry hurling success and good fortune this year. Local fixtures begin with the minors at NK level on March 2nd, and on 16th March the U-14's begin their 2013 hurling year. Also in March the seniors kick off with the NK league and the U-16's with the Co. League. Management teams are in place for all age groups now but we are still waiting for someone to fill the vacant posts of juvenile secretary and Scor Officer. Please contact Juvenile Chairman Gerard Hussey if you would be interested in helping out. RECYCLING continues with Jeremiah Clifford accepting old unwanted torn linens, boots, clothes etc. in bags which are then sold on for recycling. Jeremiah can be contacted at 0868198578 if you have bags to be dropped off to him. LOTTO: The St. Brendan's Hurling Club / Ardfert G.A.A. lotto Jackpot last week was Ä7,300. The numbers drawn were 3, 6, 8, 9. There was no winner. The draw took place in Kirby's Bar. The lucky dip winners were: Ä75 Pat O'Driscoll, Station Road, Ä40 Mary Corkery, Kilflynn, Ä25 Avril Leahy, Causeway. The next lotto draw will take place on Tuesday 12 Feb. ASDEE The North Kerry Finals of Senior Scor sponsored by Tom O Sullivan of O Sullivans Agri Kilcolman, Asdee will take place at the Community Centre, Asdee on Saturday March 2nd commencing at 7pm. Scor Na bPaisti This most popular competition which will be coming up on Sunday February 24th in the Tintean Theatre, Ballybunion where the North Kerry Finals will take place commencing at 2pm. Local Club will be involved in both competitions. SCHOOL OF EXCELLENCE. News in from John Dillon, G. D. A. North Kerry the following are the re-fixed times and dates of upcoming workshops in the North Kerry School of Football Excellence 2013. Local Coaching Officer, Micheal Walsh will be representing the Club at Workshops. UNDER 12 & 14 CONDITIONED GAMES & DRILLS JOHN DILLON - February 18th 7.30pm Listowel G.A.A. Grounds. UNDER 8 & 10 FUM GAMES & DRILLS MARY BEADES March 4th 7pm St Michael's College Listowel Gym MEMBERSHIP: Membership of the Club is now open so anybody who would like to take out membership can do so by contacting Club Registrar, Patsy Coughlan . Adults Ä20 and Under Age Ä10. It is important to note that Membership of the Club will close on Saturday March 30th and this will be strictly adhered to. Only fully paid up members will be in line for any match tickets that the Club may aquire. MEETING: The next Meeting of the St. Marys Asdee G A A Club for 2013 will take place at the Community Centre on this Wednesday February 13th starting time 9pm. FIXTURES: The following are some of the Fixtures for the early part of 2013; All games 2 30pm. NORTH KERRY LEAGUE: Seniors will take on Ballyduff away on Sunday February 17thin Round 1 of the McCarthys Insurance League, Division 2. Remaining games; Sunday February 24th home to Ballylongford, Sunday March 3rd away to Ballydonoghue, Sunday March 10th, Bye, Sunday March 17th away to Knocknagoshel. Top two teams to play final with promotion to Division 1 for the winner. COUNTY NOVICE: Cromane will provide the opposition for our Senior footballers at JackWalsh Park on Sunday March 31st in Round 1 of the County Novice Championship. MINORS County Minor League will be getting underway on Saturday February 23rd. Asdee/Bally will once again be representing us in Division 6 "A" Opposing teams will be; Duagh/Listowel "B", Cordal/ Scartaglin. Currow. COUNTY LEAGUE. Asdee will be competing in Division 5 of the Credit Union County League which is not finalised at the minute as to what teams will be participating. ATHEA Athea Coiste na n”g: Gum Shields: Following the GAA's Annual Congress in April 2012 a new rule was enacted that made it mandatory to use a mouth guard in all Football Games and Football Training sessions from January 1st 2013 for all age grades up to and including Minor. The club by ordering in bulk can buy them for Ä5 each. Registration: We will be holding our Registration Day on Sunday the 3rd of March in the Clubhouse from 12pm to 1:30pm. Registration costs Ä15 for any U6 player, for U8's up to U16's it will be Ä25 for one child and Ä40 for a family of 2 or more children. Any child registering for the first time please bring a copy of their birth cert. The Club will offer a Ä10 refund to any parent that helps out the club with fundraising during the year. The winners of the colouring competition will be announced at 1pm. Looking forward to seeing you all there. Fundraising Calendar: Our new 12 page calendar to help raise funds for the club, is still on sale at a cost of Ä5 each. It is jam packed with a wide variety of photos which were taking throughout the year. The calendar would make a lovely present for anyone living at home or abroad. The calendars are available to buy from any of the coaches and at Rose's shop. Colaiste Ide agus Iosef: Dylan Griffin, Thomas Sexton and Gary Vaughan were all members of the Colaiste Ide agus Iosef school senior football panel that narrowly lost out in the Munster Vocational Schools B football final on Friday night last in Tralee IT grounds. Athea Ladies Football - Registration for all ages will take place on Friday evening 22nd of February in the Con Colbert Sports hall from 7pm to 8pm. On the night there will be fun and games for all that attend, it is important that a parent also attends to fill out the forms. If there is anyone willing to help out with any of the teams please contact Liz O' Sullivan. We are looking forward to another great year with all the girls and hoping to see a lot of new faces on the playing field. BALLYDONOGHUE CLUB LOTTO: Last week's Club Lotto Draw took place at The Thatch. The numbers drawn were 6,10,12,19. There was no winner. The winners of the lucky dips were: Diana McCarthy - Dromerin, Billy & Laura Foley - Glouria, Margaret Geraghty - Listowel, Ger Kennelly - Moyvane, Tommy Kilgallon - Coolkeragh. The winners of the three free draws were; Joe Walsh c/o W. Kissane, Noelle Hegarty, Caoimhe Lynch - Coolkeragh. This week's draw, for a jackpot of 1,500 euro will take place in The Thatch on Friday night. FIXTURES :- All clubs are facing into their busiest time of year with the beginning of the 2013 playing season next weekend. Our seniors face into a hectic schedule with five rounds of the N.K. league, six rounds of the Co.League plus 2 rounds of the Novice Championship without a break from February 16th to May 25th. Plenty of opportunities to cheer on our teams so please come out and give your support to all our players enjoy the fresh air and meet new friends in 2013. N.K.Legaue Div 2 Rd.1 Ballydonoghue play Knocknagoshel on Saturday February 16th at 3:00pm in Coolard. Co.Minor League Div 4 Ballydonoghue are at home to Churchill on Saturday February 23rd. Co League Div 5:- Ballydonoghue are away to Renard in Rd.1. on March 24th and home to N.K. Champions Duagh in Rd.2 and away to Kilgarvan in Rd.3. Sympathy: At the last meeting of Ballydonoghue club votes of sympathy were passed to Keane Family - Moyvane,Liston Family - Ballybunion, Dalton Family - Asdee, Boyle Family - Kilconly and Lynch Family - Urlee,The Family of Garda Adrian Donohoe. BALLYDUFF BALLYDUFF GAA LOTTO: The results of the weekly Ballyduff GAA Lotto for Monday February 4th are as follows; the numbers drawn were 12, 14, 17 & 268. There was no winner of the Ä2800 Jackpot and the following won Ä50 each; Paudie County, Hearthill, Ballyduff; Grace Lowe, Village, Ballyduff; Gerdie O'Connell, Lacca, Ballyduff. TV DRAW: James Slattery, Abbeydorney; Patricia Dennehy, Leigh, Ballyduff; Billy Browne, Kiltean, Lisselton. The Lotto Draw continues each week and tickets cost Ä2 each. Your continued support is greatly appreciated. COISTE NA NOG : The following officers were elected at the recent Annual General Meeting of Ballyduff Coiste na n”g: Chairman: Brendan Nolan Secretary: John Ross Assistant Secretary: Marie O' Carroll PRO/Registration : Marie Lucid Coaching Officer : Noel Browne A Fundraising committee was also elected. Medal presentation and registration will take place on Sunday next February 17th in the GAA Club Rooms at 6.00pm. All juvenile players must be accompanied by an adult. Parents will be required to help out at training during the year. LADIES FOOTBALL: The Annual General Meeting of the Ballyduff Ladies Football Club was held on Friday last and the following Officers & Trainers were elected for 2013: CHAIRPERSON: John Ross SECRETARY: Mary Murphy P.R.O: Todd Connor SENIOR TRAINERS: Nicky Leen & Denny Rourke UNDER 12 TRAINER: Brendan Nolan UNDER 14 TRAINERS: Maurice Whelan & Eddie Kearney FIELD DEVELOPMENT DRAW: It's that time of year again when Beale GAA take to the stage. Rehearsals are going well and the set director and his team are busy at work. An event not to be missed when we perform "Jacques" and Beanstalk in the Tinte·n Theatre on February 22nd and 23rd at 7.30pm. Our third consecutive year and another momentous occasion as players and parents, trainers and club officers perform together on stage. For a great evening of entertainment, fun and frolics, get your tickets from Joyce's Newsagent, Ballybunion Credit Union or by calling 086-3937654. BALLYLONGFORD BALLYLONGFORD/ASDEE/BEALE LADIES: Registration for All Underage Teams will be held in Ballylongford GAA Clubhouse on Friday 15th February from 7:00pm-9:00pm. A second registration night will take place on Tuesday 5th March 7:00pm-9:00pm in the Ballybunion Community Centre. Please ensure to bring a copy of child's birth cert if not previously registered with the club. New members, players and supporters are always welcome. Registration for All Senior Players & Mothers and Others will take place before Training Sessions on Wednesday 13th & Friday 15th February. New members, players and supporters are always welcome. Training Sessions Beale Ladies Senior, Mothers & Others Training Sessions will take place on Wednesday 13th & Friday 15th February at 7:30pm in Stack Park, Ballybunion. Fixtures: This Sunday 17th February sees the start of Beale Ladies Senior Team Season In Division One A of The Junior North Kerry League when they travel to Ballyduff to play the Home Team. Time TBC SCOR Na bPAISTI: The North Kerry Football Board Finals of ScÛr na bP·isti will take place at the Tintean Theatre Ballybunion on Feb. 24th This is a competition specially designed for Primary school children and was the brain child of the wonderful Siobh·in Cotter R.I.P. and has been hugely successful since its foundation. Forms will be with clubs shortly. Further details can be sought from Club ScÛr Officer Noel Fennell at (068) 43108. Only clubs who take part in Senior ScÛr can take part in Scor Na bPaisti THE YEAR KICKS OFF: The G.A.A. Club season will officially kick off on this coming Sunday February 17th with the commencement of the McCarty Insurance sponsored North Kerry Football Leagues 2013. Two Divisions of the League start this Sunday Division 1A and Division 2. There are four games in total down for decision but Ballylongford have no involvement this week as they have a bye. The games are as follows: Division 1A: All games Sunday 2pm (First named teams home venue). Emmets v Tarbert. Desmonds v Moyvane. In Division 2: Ballyduff v Asdee and Ballydonoghue v Knocknagoshel. The second Round will go ahead on Sunday Week. Under 21 Championship Semi Final: The Moyvane/Tarbert/Clounmacon combination side will play Listowel Emmets at the O' Rahilly Park on this Saturday evening Februay 16th at 2.30pm. Extra time will be played if required. BALLYMACELLIGOTT LOTTO: The Ballymacelligott Gaa lotto draw was held on Monday 4th Feb 2013 at O Riadas Bar. The numbers drawn were 2, 13, 23, 27. There was no winner of the jackpot of 5600.00 Lucky dip winners: 1. Gerard Arthurs, Kielduff 2. Ned Flahive, Ballymac 3. Enda Gee, Dulague Castleisland 4. Alan Perfect, Ballymac 5. Martin Collins c/o Tom Leen Seller prize: Tom Leen Next weeks draw will be held at The Ballygarry House Hotel on Monday 11th Feb for a jackpot of 5700.00 SENIORS: Ballymacelligott 2-12 Churchill 1-08 The senior team had a good win over Churchill in the St. Brendans league on Saturday last. The home side were always in control and goals from Daniel O Shea Padraig McCarthy ended the game as a contest early in the first half. Full report on the website www.ballymacgaa.com SENIOR FIXTURES: Ballymac v St. Pats in the St Brendans League on Friday 15th Feb at 7.30pm. Venue is Caherslee. Ballymac v Kerins O Rahillys in the Town League on Sunday 17th Feb in Ballymac. Please check www.ballymacgaa.com for times. Coiste na n”g: Our u16's have already resumed training for the coming season. If you are not receiving a text about training times and games please contact Bridget Leen on 087 1249754. New members are always welcome. Girls u12/14 Training: Training will continue on Sunday morning from 11-12pm at St. Brendans hall.. Ballymac Academy resumes on Sunday 3rd March at 11.00am. Registration: For 2013 (boys and girls) will take place on Friday 15th February from 7.30pm until 9.00pm in club meeting room. If you have any queries regarding juvenile registration please contact Willie Costello on 087 6187475. BEALE The whole community is saddened at the untimely death of P·draic Liston. A key player in Beale's first North Kerry Championship victory in 1977, P·draic was a major force when we won the County Novice Championship final in that year and promotion to Division 2 of the County League; as well as winning a County Senior Championship medal with Shannon Rangers. P·draic went on to contribute to our North Kerry Championship 3-in-a-row, with success again 1978 and 1979, and he donned the green and gold of Kerry at Minor and Senior level. Beale GAA extend our sympathies to P·draic's family on this sad occasion. Suaimhneas sÌoraÌ da anam uasal. Beale Seniors contest Division 1B of the North Kerry League with our first game on Sunday, February 24th at 2.30pm in Ballybunion against Finuge. Duagh and St Senans also contest this division. Beale Seniors contest Division 4 of the County League again this year. Our first game is away to Brosna on the weekend of March 23rd and round 2 is at home to Ballyduff on the weekend of April 7th. Other teams in the competition are: St Senans, Moyvane, Tousist, Na Gaeil, Lispole, Keel, Churchill, Castlegregory and Ballylongford. We are away to Fossa in the first round of the County Novice Championship . Date and venue to be confirmed. Beale Minors contest Division 5 of the County League again this year with our first game against St Patrick's, Blennerville on Saturday, February 23rd. The Beale GAA panto has been postponed as a mark of respect to the Liston family on their recent bereavement. " Jacques" and Beanstalk has been rescheduled for February 22nd and 23rd in the Tinte·n Theatre at 7.30pm. Tickets available from Joyce's Newsagent, Ballybunion Credit Union or by calling 086-3937654. Special rates for families, senior citizens and students. The proceeds of this year's performance will go towards Beale GAA club development and Ballybunion Sea and Cliff Rescue. Membership of the Beale GAA club is now open. Contact club registrar, James Buckley @ 087 7993069. Player membership: Ä50; non-player membership: Ä30. Closing date for membership end of March. Beale GAA / Community Centre Lotto Sunday 10th February, 2013 was held in 'The Exchange' The numbers drawn were 3, 5, 11 & 19, there was no winner of the Ä2,850 Jackpot, the lucky dip winners are Ä40 - Siobhan Griffin, C/O Courtney's Ä30 - Jimmy Murphy, Lahardane, C/O Holly's Ä20 - Marian King, Marconi Ave, C/O Railway 5 Free tickets - Siobhan Gleeson, C/O Feale Bar Next draw will be held in 'The Attic' on Sunday Night 17th February at 10pm and the Jackpot is Ä2,900 . We would like to thank everyone for your continued support BROSNA GAA Lotto: The draw for the GAA Lotto jackpot of Ä11,200 took place on Monday 4thFebruary in The Three Counties Bar. Numbers drawn were 4, 7, 15, 21. No Jackpot Winner. Ä50 and promoter's prize of Ä35 went to Mikey Joe Walsh Brosna. Lucky dip winners of Ä20 each went to Joan O'Grady Abbeyfeale, Liam Lane Brosna, Pat Dillane Brosna and Wilma Lenihan Brosna. The next draw is on Monday 18th February in Kate Pats Bar. NK Novice Championship: Brosna B take on Listowel Emmets C on Saturday 16th February at 3pm In Knocknagoshel in the Semi-final of the NK novice championship CASTLEGREGORY Castlegregory GAA West Kerry League - Castle 0-12 Annascaul 0-12. This was a closely contested game played in Annascaul on Saturday evening. The home side got off to the better start with two early points before Alan Fitzerald opened from a free . Wing back Gearoid Fitzerald surged forward and finished with a well taken point from play, followed by a point from Colm Sills. Annascaul added two more, before points from Shane Hennesey and Anto Kelliher. Castle went ahead with a free from Anto Kelliher, but Jeanie Farrell closed the gap again before Alan Fitzerald gave Castle a one point advantage going in at half time. Castle increased their lead after play resumed with points from Alan Fitzerald and Anto kelliher, Annascaul got their first of the half, before Colm O Mahoney added a point from play to put Castle three ahead. Joe Scully and Colm Sills were winning a lot of ball and making life difficult for the opposition but the home side were not content to give up and continued to attack , Jeanie Farrell kicked four points from frees and Emmett Kennedy, who was introduced in the second half put Annascaul two points ahead as the game entered its final stages. The momentum swung to Castle once more and Colm O Mahoney narrowed the lead to one point. Castle launched a final attack and when Colm O Mahoney was fouled it was Alan Fitzerald who converted the resulting free to draw the game. Overall a very entertaining game. Castle play Lispole next Sunday in the final round. Time and venue to be confirmed. Details on Spar notice board during the week. Castle will play Killbride of Cavan in the Paidi ” SÈ tournament on the weekend of 23rd of Feb. Club Membership is now due and we would like to remind all members that the 31st of March is the dead line for payment. LOTTO: Here are the lotto results from Tuesday 5th February. Numbers Drawn 03, 05, 12, 26 No jackpot Winner Consolation prizes go to Caitlin & Irina Kerins; Sean Moriarty; Aine Moriarty; Mary Kelliher Next Draw Tuesday 19th February Maurice Fitzgerald's Bar ,Jackpot Ä7,600. Coiste Na n”g. We are pleased to announce that Ann Sheehan has been appointed as coiste Na n”g secretary for the coming year. We wish ann the best in her new position. Regestration took place on Sunday last. All players will have to be registered before they can train and play, forms can be obtained from the respective mentors. CAUSEWAY Causeway Camogie Club: U6 - U10 Training continues every Saturday in the Sports hall 11 am to 12 Noon everyone welcome!!!!! U12 - U14 Training continues every Saturday on Astro Turf from 4.30pm to 5.30pm, and every Tuesday from 6pm to 7pm cost Ä2. Don't Forget!!!!! We are holding our Club Registration Day on the 16th February in the Sports Hall Causeway, From 12 noon to 2 pm, all new members to bring copy of Birth Cert and a Parent needs to be present on the day, all are welcome so come along and join us, refreshments for everyone on the day. Registration fees: Adult Ä20 Child Ä15 Family of 3 or more Ä35 CLOUNMACON Lotto Results 7th Feb Numbers: 10 17 19 22 Jackpot: Ä12,400 - No Winner Lucky Dips: Ä50 Aidan Galvin, Irremore Ä30 John & Theresa Browne, c/o Jets Ä30 Ann Brennan, c/o Shenagh Ä20 BJ O'Connor, c/o Amber Ä20 Michael Collins, Ballygalogue Park 2 Match 3 each receiving Ä20 Mary Aherne, Clounmacon & James Allman, Greenville Novice Championship Clounmacon B will play St Senans C in the semi final of the Novice Championship on Saturday February 16th at 3pm in Ballybunion. Extra Time if required CORDAL The Cordal GAA AGM took place in the resource room of the Cordal Community Center on Friday 25th January. The following Officers were elected: President John Griffin; Vice Presidents Gerry O'Mahony, Neilie McAuliffe, Michael P O'Connor, Richie Walsh, Diarmuid Flynn, Sonny Boyle, Joe Reidy, Jimmy Roche, Ulick Roche, Gerry Coffey, Eddie Griffin, Nora O'Connor, Davy Joe O'Donoghue Chairman Tom Wrenn. Vice Chairman Charlie Farrelly. Secretary Richard O'Donoghue. Assistant Secretary Niall O'Ciardubain. Treasurer Tommy O'Connor Assistant Treasurer. Tom O'Connor. PRO Nora Fealey Co Board Delegate Tom Wrenn. East Kerry Delegates Johnnie O'Callaghan, Tom Wrenn, Mike Flynn, Richard O'Donoghue St Kieran's Delegates. Domo Ciardubhain, John Brosnan. Substance Abuse Officer Niall O'Ciardubh·in. Culture Officer Domo O'Ciardubh·in. Safety Officer Gerard Murphy. Children's Officer George O'Connor. School Liasion Officer Thade O'Donoghue. Coaching Officer Sean Og O'Ciardubh·in. Registration Officer James O'Donoghue. Membership Collector Dan O'Donoghue. Minor Team Trainer Niall O'Ciardubh·in Senior Team Trainer Diarmuid O Ciardubh·in Thanks to the hard work of a large number of people, Cordal GAA were awarded Ä65,000 from the Sports Capital Grant,this is a substantial amount to receive for any Club, but in order to carry out the necessary work in our field, we will also require some financial help from the public. This is an important year for Cordal GAA, as the local football field will get a transformation in the coming months. We would urge all our members,families,neighbours and friends to show your support and get behind the Club during this coming year.Please support the Lotto and any fundraising that the Club will be organising to help make Our field a place were all Our players can perform in a safe, comfortable and proud environment. Lotto - This months lotto took place in Se·n Hughes Bar,Cordal on Saturday 26th January. The numbers drawn were: 8,11,27,29 There was no Winner of this months jackpot, so its all to play for yet.The Lotto now stands at Ä4000. Lucky Dips went to: John O Sullivan,Killarney Road, David O Connor, Knocknagoshel, Jack & Paul Kerin, Carker, and Shane Kelliher, Cordal. Sellers Prize went to Katherine Horan,Coom. Cordal GAA would like to thank all at Hughes Bar for their help and continuous support. We would also like to thank Domo,Se·n Ûg,James,Billy and Donal who were this months team leaders,and all who supported this months Lotto. The Cordal Lotto over the last twelve months was very salubrious for the Club and this is due to the the hard work of our very loyal and diligent Lotto Coordinators, who have worked tirelessly all year long to achieve such high standards.Our grateful thanks goes to Maurice Costello, Diarmuid O Ciardubh·in and MichÈal Cahill and we wish them well for the coming year. Next months lotto take will take place in Fagin's Bar. Please do you part and support the Club's Lotto. Senior Club Membership: The Club Membership in now due for the coming year. Senior Players: Ä50 (insurance included) Students Ä35. (insurance included) Full Adult Membership: Ä30 Membership can be payed to the membership collector Dan O Donoghue or registration officer James O Donoghue as soon as possible please. DINGLE DINNER DANCE: Dingle GAA club will hold its celebratory dinner dance Friday 15th Feb in Dingle Skellig Hotel at 19.30. We are delighted to offer you this opportunity to celebrate the year that was 2012 with a 4 course meal and disco till late. Tickets are Ä40 and can be purchased at The Dingle Diner, Paul Geaneys, John Diony O'Connors or club executive members. MEMBERSHIP of the club is now due. We appreciate the importance of your contribution to help provide and maintain the best service for our young people. We hope that you continue as a valued club member. Membership can be given to any officer of the club. Gold membership (lotto ticket, admission to games under Dingle GAA control) is Ä150; ordinary membership is Ä50; students and OAPs is Ä30 and minors Ä20. SCOR: Comortas Scorn a bPaisti sa Phobalscoil sa Daingean ar an Aoine 22/2/2013 ag 7 p.m. Scorn a sinsear I Tabhairne Paul Geaney ar an Aoine 1/3/2013. Dingle 2-15, Lispole 1-12. Dingle rediscovered its mojo this week as it posted a good win against neighbours Lispole in an entertaining and keen contest at Pairc Ui Bharoid. This was a good advert for the game as both teams went about their business with purpose and intent and played sportingly from start to finish. Scorers: Marc O hEibhin 0-6, Donal O Riain 1-3, Brian O Conaill 1-1, Pol O Dubhain 0-3, Sean D O Conchuir 0-2. Dingle has no game in the West Kerry league next week. COISTE NA NOG: CLG Daingean Ui Chuis will be holding a 31 card drive (tables of 8) in Paul Geaneys Sunday 17th Feb at 6 p.m. Your support is appreciated. DINGLE LOTTO: The weekly GAA club draw held in Barrack Height Bar Tuesday 5th had a jackpot of Ä3000. Numbers were 1, 7, 14 and 25, no winner. Ä50 each to Helen Griffin, Lispole; Jim Cahillane, c/o Ballydavid Post Office; Mike Lynch, Kilfountain and John Joy, Droichead Pub. DUAGH Duagh GAA COISTE NA NOG AGM: Following the Coiste na nOg agm on Sunday 3rd February we failed to elect board of officers due to astonishingly low numbers in attendance. This issue needs to be addressed as soon as possible. If this is not addressed, Duagh Coiste na Nog will not function which will affect your children in 2013 and the coming years. We appeal for parents, guardians and the community to come to a meeting @ 8pm in Duagh Family Centre on 15th February 2013. We need your support if children are going to participate in Duagh GAA this coming year. GAA: Fixtures Duagh seniors v St Senans in North Kerry league in Duagh 17/2/13 at 2.30pm. SOCIAL: Tickets for the social are being quickly snapped up and will be distributed at the Family Centre on Friday Feb. 15th at 8.30pm and Tues. Feb. 19th at 8.30pm. Tickets may not be purchased after this date as numbers are restricted and understandably demand is high. The social will take place at the Devon Inn on Friday 23rd February MINORS: Just when GAA matters were beginning to quiten a little the Duagh minors joined with Finuge, won the North Kerry Minor Championship when defeating Knock/Brosna by one point. This championship for the Jotty Holly trophy was sponsored by O Connor Hardware Duagh and the trophy was presented to the captain Chris Breen Coolanelig. So, the two North Kerry trophies are now in Coolanelig senior captain Kieran Quirke is also from Coolanelig. Well done to the team and management. Team: James O Connor, Chris Breen captain, Kenny Wallace F, Luke O Donnell, Mike Stackpool F, Aaron O Connor, Willy O Connor, Eamonn McKenna, Kieran Lucey, Tom Scanlon, Gerard McCarthy, Ian McAuliffe F, Jason Wallace F, Nigel O Connor,Shane Horgan, Brendan O Sullivan F, JP Barrett F, Damian Kissane F, Dylan O Regan, Gary Kelly F, Eoin Lucey, John Murphy. F denotes Finuge player. AGM: The AGM of Duagh GAA was held recently. The following were elected: President: Pat Dillon Vice Pres. Sean Sheehy, Tom Sheehy MJ Daly. Patrons: Fr P Moore, Fr P Dillon, Fr T Mcmahon. Chairman: Martin Leane, Vice Chair: Ted Halpin, Runai: Brendan O Donnell, assistant runai Mike Buckley, PRO: Patrick Keane, Treasurers: Gerard Buckley and Mike Buckley, Assistant Treasurers Cathal Dennehy and Pat Shanahan, Scor Officer: Grainne Keane, Coaching Officer: John Halpin, Childrens Officer: Liz Twomey Delegate to County Board: Adrian Collins, Delegates to NKB: James Daughton, Ml McEnery, DJ Dwoney. Field Committe Chairman: Ted Halpin, Finance Committee Chairman: Patrick Keane. Senior Team Management: Donal Scanlon, Brendan O Brien. Hurling: Paul Swaine, Andy O Regan, Eoin Kelly, Tim Quirke. FINUGE ALL IRELAND FINAL: For the management, panel and the hundreds of supporters who travelled to Dublin last Saturday evening's defeat in Croke Park was a disappointing end to a great campaign. Although we had plenty possession early on the failure to convert chances into the Canal End in near perfect conditions resulted in Cookstown leading for most of the first half. Nevertheless thanks to points from James Flaherty, Eamonn Fitzmaurice (2) and John Griffin the Tyrone outfit led by just one point 0-5 to 0-4 at the interval. The sight of almost the entire Fr. Rock's team surrounding the referee as the half time whistle blew was ominous. As it turned out the referee became centre stage in the second half. Jason Quinn's two points early in the half stretched the Northerner's lead but the harsh red carding of Maurice and Pat Corridan were huge body blows to Finuge. The 43rd minute goal of James McGahan had Fr. Rock's five points ahead at the three quarter stage and although Finuge bravely kept going to the final whistle there was to be no reprieve. Finuge's 2 points of this half came from a long range effort from Pat Corridan and a free by Paul Galvin. Final score: Fr. Rock's 1-9, Finuge 0-6. We congratulate Fr. Rocks on their victory but we question the theatrical manner in which they appeared to attempt to influence the match officials. For our own part we are proud of the achievements of Chris Allen and his team. The winning of the elusive County title with victory over Spa and the triumph in Munster will in time stand out as major milestones in the club's history. We look forward to competing as senior club in 2013. KILMOYLEY SOCIAL - Thanks to everyone who supported the Hurling club social on Friday night which was very successful and entertaining. It was great that nearly 200 sat down to the meal and special thanks to Ballyroe Hotel for providing a beautiful meal. All ages attended and it was great to see the young people enjoying themselves. The night opened with the Senior Scor team putting on their hilarious sketch of "Hang up them auld boots" which got a great reception from the crowd. Club chairman Fintan Ryan got the speeches underway by inviting everyone to the Social and looked forward to a successful year on and off the field. Invited guests Gerard McCarthy, hurling officer and Joe Walsh, North Kerry Board chairman spoke on the night and wishhonour the occasion. Michael also spoke and said that they were a fantastic bunch of lads to work with and he enjoyed his time with them. Michael was also presented with a plaque. Maureen Spillane accepted the plaque on behalf of her brother Kieran Treacy (RIP) and received a standing ovation from the crowd. Daniel Collins received a plaque for his involvement with the St Brendan's Minor Footballers. To finish the presentations off, a birthday cake was presented to Ian and PR who celebrated birthdays with a 0 during the week. MEMBERSHIP: It is that time of the year again and membership will be collected shortly. More details next week. BEST OF LUCK: The club would like to congratulate Ian Brick who is the new Trainer/Coach of the Kerry Minor hurlers and to Joe Walsh who is the Manager of the Kerry U21 team. Best of luck to both club members. JUVENILE CLUB: TRAINING - The juvenile club coaches agreed the following training schedule: Juvenile hurling training: commences this Sunday at 11am. Kids aged 9 and under will be looked after at the community centre. please bring 2euro. Kids aged 10 to 15 will train at Pairc Naomh Erc at the same time. There will be plenty of coaches on hand to give all players a great hour of fun and entertainment. Any parents or friends interested and available to give one hour of their time a week are very welcome to help out and assist in our children's further development. MEDAL PRESENTATION: Last year's U12 side that won phase 3 of the county league will be presented with their medals at a function at the clubrooms this Friday at 7.30pm. Team and parents invited to attend. JUVENILE REGISTRATION - Juvenile player registration: Registration for all juvenile players will take place at the clubrooms on Sunday 24th February at 11am. Registration fee for the year per player is 20euro, or Ä50 per family. KNOCKNAGOSHEL Congratulations to James Walsh on making his debut for the Kerry seniors against Dublin in Killarney on Sunday last. We hope to see more of James with Kerry throughout the year. Knocknagoshel seniors will begin their North Kerry league campaign away to Ballydonoghue on Saturday 16th February at 3p.m. Membership of the club is now open. Juvenile registrar is John O'Connell and senior registrar is Tom Greaney. Membership fees remain the same as last year at Ä50 for senior players, Ä30 for students and Ä20 for minor players which covers insurance aswell. Ordinary membership is Ä30. The next lotto draw will take place on Saturday March 2nd in Moynihan's Bar Headleysbridge. Tickets for this daw are available from the usual sources. Anyone who feels they could help the club lotto by selling tickets should contact club officers. The progressive 41 card drive continues every Thursday night at 9pm in Walsh's Bar. Spot prizes on offer each night. New card players are always welcome. LISTOWEL EMMETS Well done to Fergus Reen a former Listowel Emmets stalwart who helped Douglas to win the Seandun Cork City Junior A league final to seal their first Championship & League double in 43 years. Douglas beat Whitescross by 1-18 to 2-14 after extra time in the League Final last Sunday. Sympathy: Listowel Emmets would like to extend their deepest sympathies to the Flahive family - his wife Kathleen, sons Tom and Tadhg and his extended family of Church Street on the untimely and sudden death of Jim Flahive. Ar dheis de go raibh a anam usail. Fixtures: 2012 North Kerry U-21 Football Championship Listowel Emmets V Clounmacon/Moyvane/Tarbert Date: Saturday 16th February 2013 Venue: O'Rahilly Park - Ballylongford Time: 3.00 P.M. (Extra Time to be played if required) 2013 North Kerry Senior Football Division 1A - Round 1 - Sponsored by Con McCarthy of McCarthy Brokers Listowel Listowel Emmets V Tarbert Date: Saturday 16th February Venue: Frank Sheehy Park - Listowel Time: 7.30 P.M. 2013 Club Membership: Club Membership for this season is now due. Membership can be paid to John James Buckley or Tom Walsh. The rates are as follows: Adult Playing: Ä70 Adult - Non Playing: Ä50 Minor: Ä40 OAP: Ä40 Club Membership Special Offer: Coiste na n”g - Adult - Ladies Join Listowel Emmets GAA and avail of our 2012 Family Membership Rates! Enjoy 20% off your annual membership of Emmets G.A.A. when registering the whole family! When renewing or joining Emmets G.A.A this season avail of 20% discount when registering Juvenile and Adult members. One adult membership ( Ä50) & One juvenile membership required when availing of this offer. Contact John James Buckley (087 2406824) or Tom Walsh (087 7989030) to join. Emmets Progressive 41 Card Drive: continues every Wednesday night at 9pm in the Emmets Clubhouse, come along and enjoy the craic and don't forget to bring a friend. Listowel Emmets Monthly Draw: Commencing shortly, we will be running a monthly draw that will take place on the last Wednesday of each month at the Clubhouse. The 1st draw is taking place on Wednesday 27th of February. Listowel Emmets Ladies: COME AND TRY 2013 This is a four week programme to give girls the opportunity to try out football before making a commitment to joining for the year. Starting Thursday February 14th in St Michaels College Gym from 6-7P.M. for girls aged 6-13 years who have never played ladies football before. It promises to be lots of great fun with loads of activities and games every week. For more information please contact Mary 087 8667028. UNDERAGE AWARDS The annual awards night will take place on Sunday February 24th in the clubhouse for all U8 to U16 teams from 2012. Anyone who wishes to register their child for 2013 can do so at the awards night from 6.00 P.M. LADIES SOCIAL: Thank you to all our club members and guests who came to the Social on Saturday February 9th at the Listowel Arms Hotel. This was a night to reflect on the growth of the Ladies club since it began 12 years ago with special recognition given to Jim Galvin and to founding member Billy Keane. Coiste na n”g Awards: The annual awards night for Emmets Coiste na n”g will take place on Wednesday night 20th February 2013 at 6.15pm in Frank Sheehy Park. Coiste na n”g Registration Night : The Coiste na n”g registration night will take place on Monday 25th February 2013 at 7.15pm. All players wishing to register with the club at underage level and in particular the Saturday Morning Club and U12 should register on this night. If you any further queries please contact Conor Moriarty 087 8375384 Secretary or Sean Moriarty Chairman 087 3287970. LIXNAW Hurling Club: The first monthly meeeting of the year will take place on this Thursday at 8 pm. It is important that all offficers, committtee personnel attend as well as members who wish to assist in any capacity . Before we know it activity will be beginning on the playing fields so now is the time to get all the structures in place for the year . Finuge , despite making a great effort, did not achieve All-Ireland success on Saturday but they gave us all some enjoyable times during their journey to Croke Park . MOYVANE U21 NKC 2012 SEMI FINAL: Moyvane/Clounmacon/Tarbert v Listowel Emmets on Saturday, February 16 at 3.00pm in Ballylongford. Extra Time will be played if needed. SENIOR NKL RD 1: Moyvane Seniors start off the year away to Castleisland Desmonds in Round 1 of the Division 1A NKL on Sunday, February 17 at 2:30pm. MEMBERSHIP: Club membership is now open at Ä40.00 for players and Ä20.00 for non-players. Membership can be paid to any committee member. Membership will close for 2013 on Friday, March 22, as members must be officially registered with Croke Park. Ä100 LOTTO: Again this year Moyvane GAA are offering you the opportunity to buy the Lotto for a yearly sum of Ä100.00, which gives you two free draws per year. For further details please contact any committee member. CLUB LOTTO: There was no winner of this weeks Jackpot of Ä10,900. Numbers drawn were 4, 7, 10 and 11. Lucky Dips of Ä40.00 each: Martin Sheehy, Lisselton, Padraig Kissane, Murhur, Andrew Scanlon, Ballygologue Rd, Tessie Holly, Tarmons Hill and Philip Collins, Athea. Next weeks Jackpot is Ä11,000 and the draw will be held in Brosnan's Bar on Sunday, February 17 at 10:00pm. COISTE na nOG Registration for all U6 to U16 players wishing to play this year will be held on Sunday 17th January in the Marian Hall from 11:45 to 13:00. A parent needs to attend to register their child, registration cost will be Ä15 per child for the year, with a maximum of Ä30 per family . LADIES FOOTBALL: Unwanted clothes collection will take place on Thursday, February 28 between 12 and 4pm at the Community Centre Moyvane. Bags can also be dropped off on Wednesday, January 27 between 6-8 pm. All unwanted clothes, shoes, handbags, curtains etc accepted (no duvets /pillows). It's time to Spring clean again, leave as many bags as you can. All funds raised will go towards running Moyvane Ladies Football Club. SCARTAGLEN ST.KIERANS AGM: The AGM of St. Kierans GAA Club will be held in Cordal Community Centre on Monday night next February 18 at 8pm. The meeting will be preceeded by mass at 7pm for deceased members. All welcome. COISTE NA NOG REGISTRATION: Scartaglen Coiste na nOg registration night will be on Friday night next February 15 in the clubhouse from 6.30pm to 7.30pm. GAA MEMBERSHIP: Scartaglen GAA Club registrar wishes to point out that membership of Scartaglen GAA Club is now due and all membership subscriptions for 2013 should be paid before March 31st, which is the final closing date. EK SENIOR LEAGUE: Scartaglen Senior footballers got the new season off to a flying and winning start when recording a narrow but deserved 1-11 to 2-6 victory over Glenflesk in the East Kerry Super League Division 1B at Rathmore on Sunday last. At half time the Glenflesk men led 0-6 to 0-4. On this Sunday February 17 Scartaglen travel to Kilcummin to play that team in Round 2 of the Super League, with a throw in time of 12 noon. GAA LOTTO DRAW Scartaglen GAA Clubs February Lotto Draw will take place in Lyons Bar on Sunday night next February 17 when the jackpot will be Ä11,200. St Kierans Ä500 Cross Country Quiz: Round 3 of our quiz took place last Friday night February 8th in Fleming's Bar, Scartaglin. The winners were: Team 1; The Wild Rovers - Liam Young, John Reidy, Pa Reidy and Jerome O Driscoll and in second place and also going forward to the grand final in March were: Team 2; The Late Comers - Con Hewitt, Mike Cremin, Jessica Hewitt and Sean Cremin. Thanks to all the teams taking part and all the raffle sponsors; Fleming's Bar, Scartaglin GAA Club, Daly's shop and Post office and Mike Cremin. Round 4 of the competition will go ahead in the Halfway Bar, Ballymac on Friday next February 15th at 9pm. Bag Packing Fundraiser: We will have a bag packing fundraising day in Garvey's Super Value, Castleisland next Friday February 15th 2013. Any help on the day would be appreciated. St Kieran's AGM 2013: The AGM of the club will be held in Cordal Community Centre on Monday February 18th 2013 at 8pm. The meeting will be preceded by mass at 7pm for the deceased members of the St Kieran's district. All welcome. Silver Jubilee: The club celebrates its silver jubilee in 2013. The sub-committee under chairman, Tom Herlihy, are planning a number of events to celebrate the occasion. Details of all events will follow later. County Minor League: We wish the best of luck to all clubs in the district who will commence the 2013 County Minor League this weekend 16th/17th of February. Munster Colleges: Seven of our players were involved with Colaiste Ide agus Iosef, Abbeyfeale in the Munster Senior Collages Senior B Final in Tralee last week. Unfortunately, they lost out to a strong Colaiste Ghobnathan, Ballyvourney team. St. Senans Results; N.K. Novice C'Ship St. Senans recived a walk-over from Knockanure. MEMBERSHIP: is now due for 2013. Senior and Junior players Ä50 each, Minors Ä10 each, Members Ä20. Closing date March 1st please note closing date. REGISTRATION: for Coiste Na n”g for 2013 is Ä10 per child and Ä20 for two or more Children. There will be a registration evening shortly. Details later. All players must register. All players from under 6 up to and including minors must wear Mouth Guards (Gum Shields) during training and matches from January 1st 2013. Lotto; 10/02/2013. 3,11,21 & 24 No winner. Next weeks Lotto Ä12,600 Ä30,Berenatte O'Sullivan, Listowel. Patsy Mehan, Kilmorna. Ä20,Peggy O'Sullivan, Ballylongford. Denis Lane, Rae,, Kilmorna. Bottle of Whisky, Tom McCarthy, Duagh. RAMBLING HOUSE: The next rambling House Session is Friday Night February the 15th @ 9pm in the Thatched house Finuge. Musicians, Singers, Story Telling are most welcome. Light Refreshment served. TARBERT GAA LOTTO: There was no winner of last week's lotto draw. The numbers drawn were; 7, 24, 26 and 28. Bar Prize winner Aoife Cregan. The Lucky Dip winners were; Noreen Horan, Stella Enright, John McGinley, Micheal Normile and Joesphine Deenihan. Next week's draw will take place in the Swanky Bar with a jackpot of Ä1,100. Thanks to all who continue to support the Lotto. MATCH FIXTURES: U-21 ñ Clounmacon / Moyvane / Tarbert semi-final game against Listowel will now be played in Ballylongford next Saturday at 3pm. SENIORS: Tarbert commence their senior campaign in the North Kerry League away to Listowel next Sunday at 2:30pm MEMBERSHIP: Players and members are reminded that closing date for membership is the end of March. Players cost Ä50 while ordinary members cost Ä25, subscriptions to be forwarded to Club Register Donnacha Enright. Kerryman 
