sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    October 26 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eugene-mcgee/time-for-clubs-to-cash-in-on-aussie-exodus-26576508.html }
The GAA traditionally had a very wary approach to any new developments that involved finance, with their great fear always being that they might lose some control over their own workings. A good example was when live television was broached after the foundation of RTE in 1961. Somewhat reluctantly, GAA leaders of the time agreed that RTE could televise the All-Ireland semi-finals and finals in 1962 but there was to be no mention of binding contracts, something which might threaten the ability of the GAA to run its own affairs. Instead, the first Director of RTE Sport, Micheal O'Hehir no less, agreed with GAA president Hugh Byrne that the games be shown for the princely figure of £10 a year. When other sports began to adopt commercial sponsorship including advertising on jerseys, the GAA stayed well clear. At Congress after Congress, the great GAA orators of the day warned of the evils of sponsorship and the danger that it would corrupt the pure amateur ideals of the GAA forever. GAA presidents proclaimed that sponsors' ribbons would never besmirch the Sam Maguire or Liam McCarthy Cups. We still have a few GAA zealots out there preaching the same message about county players. Eventually, the GAA moved with the times and will soon be earning a third of its income from television and sponsorship. But how much money was lost to the GAA while they delayed these decisions? At present, there is a lot of nonsense being talked about young footballers going to Australia to get involved with professional AFL clubs. There is much weeping and gnashing of teeth about this latest Flight of the Earls and one would think that county teams are going to be decimated. It is rubbish, of course, but it allows some people to express their narrow attitude that Gaelic games are the only ones worthy for young Irishmen to play. They give the impression that these talented players who leave are traitors, and the fact that they are getting money is even worse in these people's eyes. The same people want all connection with the Ireland v Australia games abolished and they may well get their wish. Yet many people are disappointed that the International Rules series is not being played this month, as they would have been had the Aussies not come up with a 'buckshee' excuse that fooled nobody. Only a tiny handful of young players get involved with Australian Rules and of those who do, the majority return after between one and four years for a variety of reasons -- not least because they have not got the personal motivation required in professional sport. I never met Ricky Nixon, who acts as a recruiting agent for young Irish players for AFL clubs, but he seems well motivated. Nixon and GAA officials have never hit it off because the GAA basically resents everything he stands for. Shades here of the attitude the 'old GAA' used to have to sponsorship, where they refuse to acknowledge the situation and instead try to scuttle it. Unfortunately for them, that policy is not an option simply because the GAA has absolutely no control over what sport young men get involved in. How some die-hards must yearn for the old days, up to 1971, when GAA members were barred from playing soccer or rugby. No doubt if Rule 27 were still in force, Australian Rules would have been added to the blacklist by now. But we live in more civilised times nowadays and every sensible person knows, as indeed do the leaders of the GAA, that footballers are free to play any sport. But are the GAA bosses adopting the right course of action? Is there not a case for some system of compensation being available for those GAA clubs who lose players to Australia? In soccer, when young players sign up for British clubs, it is often specified in their contract that the club with which the youngster started with would get financial rewards based on the player's subsequent performance. In some cases this compensation can be very substantial. Why can't the GAA not negotiate with AFL in Australia along similar lines, thereby ensuring that when one of the major AFL clubs signs an Irish player, there would be a substantial contribution towards that player's home GAA club? The main genuine complaint about young men leaving for Australia is that the input by their local clubs with regards to coaching and general progression is wasted from the club's point of view. Surely instead of turning a blind eye to the departure of players to Australia, the GAA should ensure that when the player signs for, say, St Kilda, as in the case of Tommy Walsh, there should be a payment to his club, Kerins O'Rahillys in Tralee, which would be seen as an investment in the future of the club. A signing-on fee of at least €20,000, and more on progression through the ranks, would merely reflect the important role the GAA club played in the player's career. That seems simple enough but in the GAA, no decision is simple. No doubt there would be further shouts about professionalism and this would be regarded as 'blood money' by the purists of amateurism. Yet there seems to be no such outcry when famous county players get free cars, free holidays and numerous other commercial and financial rewards which merely exposes the whole hypocrisy of GAA amateurism. The GAA spent many years losing out to television rights and sponsorship, so hopefully they will not make the same mistake about signing-on money to the relevant GAA clubs. I imagine the AFL in Australia would approve of such a system but if the GAA merely sticks its head in the sand, they are doing an injustice to both their own players and the relevant clubs. Young men will continue to go to Australia and the GAA should be generous in their response -- but also look for compensation for the clubs. Irish Independent 
