sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    May 13 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/why-gaa-shouldnt-kill-the-messenger-26086724.html }
NOT many people know this but a meeting of the GAA's Central Council was held on April 28 last at which a lot of the time was spent lambasting the media. Now the Central Council is the supreme governing body of the GAA between annual congresses and consists of about 40 members who - in theory at least - are the most powerful officials in the whole organisation. So bearing in mind the many pressing matters that require the attention of GAA legislators such as the Croke Park development, the GAA's commitment to the proposed Stadium Ireland and the new-style football championship to name just a few, I was curious to find out what terrible event had occurred to cause the greatest brains in the GAA to spend such a long time applying their collective wisdom to the media. Well it arose because of a motion put forward by Dan McCartan of Down (not to be confused with the former great fullback from that county) which read: "That Ard-Chomairle (Central Council) deplores the intolerant and hysterical comments carried by sections of the media which were directed at delegates to Congress who chose not to support the amendment to Rule 42 and Rule 5 and in particular the references to President and ex-Presidents." This refers to the recent Congress vote regarding the use of Croke Park. In order to enlighten his Central Council colleagues Dan McCartan circulated an extensive selection of the said derogatory remarks from the Sunday Independent, Sunday Tribune, Irish Times and the Irish Independent. There were 40 such examples all told from a wide variety of writers, sports and otherwise. Having failed to have any of my remarks included it appears that I will simply have to try harder if I want to antagonise GAA officials. Mr McCartan reserved special mention for RTE and he circulated a transcript from the Sunday Game of April 8 in which Ger Loughnane made reference to the apparent power and influence of the Cork delegation to Congress "and especially the leader of the Cork delegation". Dan McCartan wrote: "We cannot allow this sinister innuendo to go unchallenged. As a self-respecting Association we have an obligation to protest strongly at the unjust treatment of one of our counties and its Secretary and to demand from RTE a public apology and retraction". Several speakers made comments and the motion was passed unanimously by Central Council. No wonder we are all nervous wrecks in the media at the moment! It is often hard to know whether to laugh or cry at the regular outbursts of media-bashing which take place at all levels of the GAA, of which this is but the latest. Long years of observation at close quarters have indicated to me that the majority of GAA officials detest journalists as group, full stop. Most of them however disguise their feelings very well in public and whenever the speak at AGMs or functions they are careful to praise 'our friends in the media' and they usually add in: 'We in the GAA must be prepared to accept criticism from the media provided it is justified, we mightn't like it but we should accept it'. The roots of the GAA's problems with the media are easy enough to trace in the historical connection between the Irish media and the GAA. For the first half of the GAA's existence there were only a handful of full-time journalists covering GAA affairs for the national newspapers and radio. The vast majority of GAA writing was done by non-journalists who were nearly always 'pure' GAA people. This applied particularly to provincial newspapers. These GAA fans with typewriters, pencils or biros saw their main function as presenting the best possible image of their beloved GAA. Objectivity was a dirty word. Matches were reported in glowing terms, officials were lauded like statesmen and the darker side of GAA life was completely ignored. Dirty matches were glossed over, players sent off were rarely named and the usual political skullduggery of the GAA never saw the light of day in print. Hard to believe now that for the greater part of his career the great broadcaster Michael O Hehir would never give the name of players sent off. In his autobiography Sean Og O Ceallachain recounts how he was telephoned by one of Liam Mulvihill's predecessors, Padraig O Caoimh, and severely chastised for naming in his radio match reports players who were sent off. Sean Og stood his ground. Over 70 years of this 'whitewashing' of GAA coverage, to which there were several honourable exceptions, deluded many GAA officials into believing that they would always be able manipulate GAA coverage. But when television arrived in Ireland things began to change and in addition more newspapers were employing full-time journalists to cover GAA affairs. These people were impartial and objective and not surprisingly many of the darker images of the GAA began to see the light of day. This led to a lot of friction at times as GAA bosses adjusted to the new reporting regime and even the great John D Hickey of this newspaper was once banned by Cork County Board over remarks he made about Christy Ring in a Munster final match report. Things have improved greatly in the past 20 years and the arrival of sponsorship has helped a lot. When PJ Carroll & Co first sponsored the Carrolls Allstars in the early seventies their PR man - Pat Heneghan - began the process of dragging the GAA into modern media practices. But they were slow learners. Nowadays, the GAA has its own PR department under Danny Lynch but it is nowhere near as well resourced as it should be for such a huge organisation. Danny is usually seen in a fireman role AFTER some controversy has broken. Instead, his department should be setting the style and tone of the GAA's relations with the media and anticipating where there might be media disasters. Because at the end of the day GAA officials will have to admit that their organisation with its myriad committees is constantly the author of its own bad publicity. For instance, just last week we heard about Mayo U21 team having used SIX subs when beating Sligo in the Connacht final recently. The automatic penalty for this is loss of the game. The Connacht Council did not apply that rule. I'm sure they had their reasons but good public relations would have seen them explaining their decision publicly before it leaked out through the rumour machine. So if the GAA wants to lessen the collateral damage of bad media reports they need to adopt a more open approach and give vastly increased resources to Danny Lynch's department. That's what Central Council should be debating instead of lambasting journalists who usually are only reflecting public opinion. They could also reflect on what Sean McCague said in his Congress address recently: "The GAA is often an easy target for criticism when there are breakdowns in discipline. It is clear that such incidents on GAA fields receive far more attention and negative publicity than similar incidents in other sports. But instead of claiming to be victims we should strive to ensure that any breakdowns are limited and that our critics are denied the opportunity to attack and deride us." eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
