sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    May 28 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/herein-lies-the-remains-of-the-gaa-26451005.html }
DEATH NOTICE (Croke Park and every parish in the country) -- May 2008. Aged 124 years. The GAA, (suddenly and suspiciously), in the not so loving care of the Economic and Social Research Institute. Sadly missed by its shocked 800,000 members, 425,000 players and 2,500 clubs. Funeral arrangements later, once the thousands of overseas relations return. GAA Stadiums, club houses and pitches strictly private, prior to being handed over to other organisations. Donations, if desired, to the ESRI to help them produce some more bizarre findings. The ESRI haven't divulged how much their latest research project, run in conjunction with the Irish Sports Council, cost -- but no doubt it was pretty expensive. 'Sporting Lives -- an analysis of a lifetime in Irish Sport' is all there in its lengthy glory on the ESRI web site, but for now let's adopt the Albert Reynolds one-page brief policy. Actually, let's trim it down to one line. The GAA is finished. Its games are being overtaken by other sports -- and not just by main competitors like soccer and rugby either. The Ireland of the future will be a GAA-less country where soccer and rugby are the main sports, but which will also include shoals of swimmers flailing happily in our pools (who'll fund them?) and waterways, 10-mile cycling cavalcades snaking through hills and valleys and battalions of basketballers pounding the boards. Yes and the sound of 'fore' will resonate across the land as golf becomes the new hurling. Note to ESRI: Drop little Johnny or Joanne down to your local golf club next Saturday morning. Ask to have them coached a few times a week, given games, transported to and from matches, provided with gear and brought on 'away' weekends. And while you're at it, ask can they cater for hundreds of other youngsters from the area too and then prepare for the look which says: 'Are you certifiable?' According to the ESRI, friends to all sports except Gaelic Games, there are issues of concern over how much money is being allocated to the GAA. "The data shows that the Sports Capital Programme currently devotes the lion's share of the available resources to sports that have relatively low and declining popularity, especially Gaelic games," they pronounce. In fact, they deemed that statement so important that they put it in bold type as they did with a reference to the "relative decline of Gaelic Games over several decades". Relatively low? Declining popularity? Several decades? How can the ESRI expect to be taken seriously when they refer to Gaelic Games as having relatively low popularity? An organisation that caters for at least 425,000 playing members, whose inter-county championships are attended by around 1.75 million people every summer, who are pursued by commercial companies in recognition of the valuable sponsorship vehicles they provide, and whose grip on the heart and soul of communities throughout the country is so strong, can scarcely stand accused of low popularity. As for the assertion that the GAA has been in decline for several decades, do the ESRI think that they can dress up apparent nonsense and feed it to us as fact? Presumably the GAA was in serious decline when, alone among sports organisations, it set about developing its own stadium to modern requirements in the early '90s Yes, the GAA received some State funding for the redevelopment of Croke Park but not nearly as much as the IRFU/FAI are getting for the joint venture at Lansdowne Road for a stadium with a 27,000 lower capacity. Besides, the GAA went it alone at a time when the others were waiting for the Government to build a national stadium. And, in case the ESRI has forgotten, the GAA came to the rescue of the IRFU and FAI when it looked as if the country would be embarrassed by having to export rugby and soccer internationals. Also, can the ESRI recall a report form a few years ago which showed that the GAA provided over 50pc of volunteers involved in all sports? That contribution was estimated to be worth around €260 million per year. Not bad for an organisation in decline. Incidentally, the ESRI should not have forgotten that report because it was actually produced by them. The danger of the latest ESRI offering from a GAA viewpoint is that there's always the danger that perception becomes reality. If an outside agency such as the ESRI presents such a negative picture of any sports organisation, it will be seized upon by those who wish to exploit the findings to suit themselves. It could also make it more difficult for the GAA to get Government funding in future. Speaking of which, the ESRI receives around a third of its funding from Government which is a damn sight more than the GAA do. Wonder who makes the greater contribution to the country, the GAA or the ESRI? MONAGHAN became the latest side to mount an interview-free cordon around the county in recent weeks so they can't blame over-exposure for their Ulster championship defeat by Fermanagh on Sunday. My God, what would Patrick Kavanagh, poet and scholar, not to mention former Inniskeen goalkeeper, make of his native county men declaring themselves tongue-tied? Come to think of it, what does former GAA president and former Monaghan manager Sean McCague or new Director-General Paraic Duffy make of it? It's an immutable fact that the better teams become, the greater the frequency of interview requests. So the more often the phone rings, the better a squad should feel about itself. No player is obliged to do an interview but every panel has plenty lads who are prepared to talk. So why is the clam-up culture so popular? Silence isn't always golden and it sure as hell doesn't help win championship games, as Monaghan now know. LIVE television coverage is a crucial promotional device for all sports but it needs to be used judiciously. That's why the GAA was taking a big risk by featuring Laois against Offaly as their TV launch game for this year's All-Ireland hurling championship last Sunday. Apart from the fact that both of the counties had been relegated to Division 2 this year, Offaly beat Laois by a combined total of 29 points in the previous two Championships, so the omens for a cracking contest weren't exactly good. And so it proved as Offaly galloped to a 16-point win after hitting Laois for 4-22. It didn't exactly make captivating viewing. One-sided games are always a risk in sports like Gaelic games and rugby but in terms of launching the 2008 hurling campaign on TV it would surely have been better to wait until next Sunday's Clare-Waterford game in Limerick. 
