sport gaa
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    April 05 2014 09:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/eamonn-sweeney-viewers-will-have-last-laugh-30158933.html }
And they say RTE can't do comedy. Well, The Centre and The Walshes may be as funny as woodworm in a walking stick but our national broadcaster came up trumps with last Tuesday night's brilliant satirical show, Prime Time. It was a brave decision by the show's writers to mock the station itself but it paid off in spades because a 20-minute sketch, based on a scenario where RTE had to deal with the GAA selling some TV rights to Sky, was one of the most hilarious things you're likely to see on Irish television. The star of the show was a 'Dublin GAA fan', who, in a brilliant performance, delivered the hoary old cliché about the GAA being the 'Grab All Association', claimed ticket prices for big matches are so high most of the population can't go to them so they are only attended by 'event junkies and event groupies' and went off on a tangent about how Sky are responsible for there being no Irish or English players in Premier League matches. You couldn't have got a better piss-take of the kind of spoofery where utter inaccuracy is teamed with complete certainty. But the genius of the performance lay in its attention to detail. How better to satirise recession-related poor-mouthing than to claim that the majority of the population can't afford, for example, the €20 for a Hill 16 ticket to last year's Leinster football final. And I'm still getting a chuckle out of the notion of those 'junkies and groupies' whose jaded search for ever greater heights of sensation can only be satisfied by the impossible glamour and decadence of the provincial championships. The fact that he appeared to be reading from a piece of paper was another brilliant touch. The GAA's director-general Páraic Duffy and former GAA president Nickey Brennan seemed bemused by the carry-on, as though they'd come to the studio for a reasonable debate. But they must surely have cottoned on to the joke when the actor playing host David McCullagh got to work. 'McCullagh's' interrogation of Duffy was obviously a satirical dig at RTE's normal practice of kowtowing to people in authority and letting them away with all kinds of bullshit. The interviewer was invited to contrast this with 'McCullagh' getting all Jeremy Paxman on a guy who hadn't actually done anything wrong. Snapping at Duffy straight away that he'd done a bad deal for the GAA, 'McCullagh' poured on the rudeness and disdain, adding a snide comment about British viewers only being likely to watch the GAA if they saw it by accident when flicking through Sky's less popular channels. That was amusing enough but even more satisfying was the moment when he wondered how dedicated fans would actually see championship matches if they weren't on RTé. Duffy's retort that maybe they could go to the actual games was perfectly delivered. The exchange was obviously a jab at couch potato Premier League fans. It seemed to dawn on Duffy that perhaps the interview wasn't entirely kosher when 'McCullagh' compared the GAA decision to the Heineken Cup TV rights being sold to Sky and Duffy pointed out that there are no Heineken Cup games at all free-to-air while around 100 GAA games a season are. And the shoddy research which has cost RTé dear in the past was hinted at when 'McCullagh' confidently declared that there "aren't many empty seats at quarter-finals", whereas in reality there were almost 17,000 of them at last year's Kerry-Cavan/Mayo-Donegal double bill and over 26,000 of them at the Kerry-Donegal/Cork-Kildare games the year before. 'Miriam O'Callaghan', the other host, also did a bravura comic turn. Despite being saddled with a ludicrous accent, she delivered some hilarious lines with perfect timing. Particularly satisfying was an extended routine about the possibility of the nation's children being dragged into pubs en masse by their parents because the GAA have sold exclusive rights to 14 games, (though I felt the director could have introduced some violins at this point). A clever point was made about the Irish relationship with alcohol by implying parents who wouldn't pay €15 a week for Sky Sports wouldn't have any problem decamping to the pub on Sunday afternoons and splashing out on drink there. 'Miriam's' suggestion that the beauty goes out of sport when money is involved was another zinger, given that she was playing the role of an RTé presenter, a class of person not usually associated with distaste for exorbitant financial reward. And her lament that "people who have given their lives to the GAA" were being "sold down the swanee" because the Association had sold the TV rights to 14 games was a magnificent skewering of the kind of witless hyperbole too common in this excitable media age. Slipshod RTE journalism came in for a rub too when Brian McEniff appeared with 'Brian McNiff' written underneath him as though Prime Time wouldn't even have known the correct name of one of the GAA's legendary figures. And there was a telling dig at corporate loyalty when both 'Miriam' and 'McCullagh' pressured Duffy and Brennan to guarantee that Sky wouldn't be getting any more games, as though it were RTé's interests rather than those of GAA fans they were bothered about. The high jinks included the reading out of a viewer message which purported to find it hilarious that a GAA official had mentioned the Heineken Cup on air. Yeah, because it's not like the Association have hosted a load of high-profile rugby internationals in Croke Park or anything. In fact, the programme was so funny that other media outlets couldn't help getting in on the act. Wasn't it a brilliant stroke to have Tommy Walsh, a professional footballer, complaining that the GAA had betrayed the amateur ethos? And to have former rugby international Trevor Hogan, in a brilliant impersonation of a man who doesn't know what he's on about, explain that rugby needs TV money to grow the game but the GAA doesn't. Hogan even resurrected the old canard about the GAA exploiting its players because they're not professionals. Radio comedy show Liveline also joined in the fun but as usual that didn't really work. The 'callers' were so completely OTT they lacked that edge of believability essential to satire. Sadly, some people didn't seem to get the joke. Dessie Farrell of the Gaelic Players' Association, who've spent years making sure players aren't exploited, welcomed the deal. And so did Dónal óg Cusack, a man who no-one could ever accuse of either pandering to Croke Park or keeping his mouth shut if he thinks wrong has been done to players. It's been suggested to me that the Prime Time piece was not a satire but rather a dire attempt at a news piece on the deal. But that's hardly true. If it was, RTé would have to explain why it went into a tantrum about the GAA selling a few games to a rival broadcaster, a tantrum which only underlined the complacency and entitlement which probably drove the GAA to seek an alternative broadcaster in the first place. Because, if we're talking seriously, it's worth pointing out that player reaction on Twitter was overwhelmingly favourable, that most fans are probably looking forward to seeing if Sky can do a better job than RTé, that the GAA's amateur ethos doesn't change the fact that a lot of money is needed to keep the Association going, that clubs all over the country are constantly fund-raising and will welcome any new cash injection, that rather than 'grabbing all', the GAA has always spent money at grassroots level and provided the best sporting facilities in the country. And, furthermore, that Premier League and Heineken Cup matches being shown on Sky haven't resulted in the pubs of the country being knee-deep in children, that GAA fans have always been and will remain the best in the country for getting off their arses and actually going to games, that GAA people are proud of their games and think they deserve an international audience, that a Sky Sports subscription is within the means of most interested people and unlike the TV licence is actually decent value and that TV people who treat venal politicians with kid gloves should extend a small bit of courtesy to officials of an association which has done nothing but good for this country. But, no, it must have been satire. Above all, it nailed the mentality of people who think any new development in the GAA means the Association is going to hell in a handcart. The prophets of doom were out in force when the sports grants were paid to inter-county players, when rugby and soccer were played in Croke Park, when the GPA was formed and when The Ban was repealed. I'd bet that back in 1892 when the GAA decided that from now on a goal would not outweigh any number of points there was a Jeremiah predicting this would be an end to the games as we knew them. "Do you know what GAA stands for?" he'd have said, "the Goals Abolished Association." And his fellow Gaels would have smiled and shook their heads and carried on with their work. backpage@independent.ie Masters to keep us guessing Even before the injury which ruled out him out of this week's Masters, Tiger Woods' position as world No 1 had a provisional feel to it. His return to the summit last year said a lot about Tiger's battling qualities but the days when Majors were a question of Woods v the field are a long time gone. Rory McIlroy had seemed such an obvious heir apparent to Woods that when he hit the No 1 slot in 2012 he seemed primed to stay there for a long time. Instead his game unravelled to such an extent that last year served as an object lesson in how sport at the very top level rarely goes according to plan. If any one player was to assume the Woods mantle in the near future, it probably would be McIlroy. But it's more likely we're in for a spell of democracy at the helm of things. Since Tiger's record 281 consecutive weeks at the top came to an end in October 2010, Lee Westwood, Martin Kaymer, Luke Donald, McIlroy and Woods have swapped the position between them. And that's why the Masters is such a fascinating prospect with no clear frontrunner in sight. McIlroy's form has improved but the question marks are still there; Jason Day, who looked like a potential No 1 when winning the WGC Accenture Match Play in February, hasn't played since due to injury; Phil Mickelson has also been struggling with injury, while Justin Rose is recovering from tendonitis and has struggled with his putting this year. Henrik Stenson missed the cut last month's Honda Classic while Dustin Johnson, a big American fancy after a huge improvement in his putting this season, posted 80 in the first round of the Houston Open on Thursday and promptly withdrew. History seems to be against last year's winner Adam Scott as only three golfers – Woods in 2002, Nick Faldo in 1990 and Jack Nicklaus in 1966 – have managed back-to-back victories, while 2007 champ Zach Johnson is in the form of his life. Bubba Watson, the 2012 winner, is also in flying form, his win in February's Northern Trust Open was his first since his Masters triumph. Then there are the latest American wunderkinds. Jordan Spieth is only 20 but followed a brilliant amateur career by finishing tenth on the PGA money list last year and winning the tour's Rookie of the Year award. And his fellow Texan, 23-year-old Patrick Reed, won the biggest tournament of the season so far, the WGC Cadillac Championship to become just the fifth player to win three PGA events before his 24th birthday. Maybe the remarkable cinderella story of Jimmy Walker a 35-year-old journeyman from Oklahoma, who'd never won a PGA tournament before this year but who's now won three and tops the money list, will continue. Five of the last 11 Masters have been decided by play-off and only two of them by more than two shots so chances are that we'll be on the edge of our seats into the final hour yet again. This one has more possible plot lines and prime suspects than the most devious HBO series. And I haven't even mentioned Kuchar, Bradley, McDowell, Stricker, Schwartzel . . . Sunday Indo Sport 
