sport gaa
{  
    January 22 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27366038.html }
GAA: Social - Saturday, January 31, the night of our Annual Social in association with the Ladies Football Club is fast approaching. Tickets ?25 are available from members of both Clubs. Music by Martin Williams, nostalgia and disco. Come along for what is guaranteed to be a very enjoyable night in Ballygarry House Hotel. Membership - The deadline for Club membership is Saturday, February 21. Cost: Adult ?20, Juveniles ?5. Money to be paid to Club registrar Ian Maunsell. Bórd na nÓg - At the Bórd na nÓg AGM held on Friday night, the following officers were elected. Chairman - Ger O’Connell; Treasurers - Mary Leen and Kathleen Hayes; Pro - Kathleen Hayes; Bord na nOg delegate - Tom Healy. The position of secretary was deferred to our next meeting. Website - You can now visit Abbeydorney GAA Club website at www.abbeydorneygaa.com. Please note this site will be updated weekly with pictures, news, events, photos and happenings in the Village. Advertisement slots to business locally. Contact club secretary or if you wish you can email at abbeydorney@eircom.net if you would like to include news from the Village. THANKS: The Lenihan family would like to thank all their friends, neighbours and relatives who travelled to Mayo for their brothers funeral. MCELLIGOTTS BAR: The winner of the Poker Classic on Wednesday night was John Donovan; Sunday night was Eileen Flaherty. The winners of the 41 card drive on Saturday night was James O’Sullivan and Martin Young. Saturday - Music by Castletown Ramblers, 9pm. Sunday - The Ploughing Match Presentations will take place. HANDBALL: The Club was represented at Ballyroe Heights Hotel county championships singles on January 10, by Ciaran Marron and Darren O’Sullivan. Runner-up and doubles on January 17, by Darren O’Sullivan/ Brendan O’Donnell (Ballymac) and Stephen O’Connor/ Conor Baker, both teams runners up in finals. Medals will be awarded at the Handball Awards night in Ballyroe Heights Hotel on Friday, January 30, at 8pm. COMMUNITY GAMES: U17 quiz will be held in Abbeydorney Community Centre on Friday, January 23, at 7.20pm. First three will qualify for adult quiz team which will participate in the county finals on February 8. All welcome. If any group of children are interested in doing a project for community games (U11, U13, U15 and O15). Please contact Patsy at (066) 7135013. CONGRATULATIONS: To Julie McElligott, Abbeydorney and Pat Hayes, Kilflynn on their recent engagement. We wish them all the best in the future. BORD NA NOG: In conjunction with the Ladies Football Club will have their juvenile medal ceremony on Friday night, January 23, in the Sports Complex at 8pm sharp. All juvenile players and their families are invited to attend. There will be music and refreshments. We look forward to meeting you all. CLUBHOUSE: Saturday - Music with Mike Williams. Sunday - Music with Celtic Clan. The results of the recent Pool Tournament were: Mens winner - Donal Donovan; Runner up - Joe Charles. Ladies winner - Mags McCarthy; Runner up - Lillian Somers. PLOUGHING MATCH: Mass for deceased ploughmen from the Parish will be held on Saturday night next, January 24, at 7.30pm, in St Bernard’s Church, Abbeydorney. The Annual Ploughing Match will be held on Sunday next, January 25, on the lands of Michael O’Riordan, Boheroe, commencing at 12 noon. The usual Ploughing Classes, along with a Beginners Class, will be held and Brendan Glavin, a native of Abbeydorney and now living in Yorkshire, will be home again to plough in the horse class. The judges for this year’s Ploughing Match will be Dermot Flynn from Kanturk and Andy O’Connell from Buttevant, and the Ploughing Supervisor will be Con Hartnett from Kanturk. Once again, the County Kerry Hunt will be run in conjunction with this years Ploughing Match and the horses and riders will visit the Ploughing site during the afternoon. Other events will include: Large Vintage Machinery display; Treshing demonstration; Farm Animal display by George Kelly, Hazelford Farm, Beaufort; Sheaf Tossing competition; Kerry Macra na Feirme Farm Tasks; Display of Agricultural Machinery by Kerry Garages; Bread Making demonstration by Muckross House; Indoor Marquee displays; Most Appropriate Dressed Lady/ Gent competition; Baking competition by Abbeydorney ICA; Gate raffle; Bouncing Castle for children. Music by Sonny Egan and friends from the Rambling House. Hospitality, courtesy of Mrs Eileen McCarthy and family, will be available all day on site. LADIES FOOTBALL: The presentation of medals to our underage players will take place on Friday, January 23, at 8pm, in the Sports Complex. We are holding the Presentation in conjunction with Bord na nÓg underage hurlers. After the Presentation there will be light refreshments and a disco. Everybody welcome. Congratulations to our minor team who defeated Legion in Ballyduff last Sunday in the semi-final of the league. Next weekend they play Corca Dhuibhne in the final. Best of luck to the team. FOROIGE: Foroige Youth Club has resumed activities following the winter break. The date for enrollment of new members (first year onwards) is Friday 6th February at the Convent Hall at 8pm. Each new member must be accompanied by a parent who is also willing to give at least one night at a club meeting. DEATHS : The death has occurred of Jack Ward, New Street. He is mourned by his bereaved wife Eileen, sons Sean, Noel and Colm and by his neighbours, relatives and friends. The death has occurred of Philomena Greaney, (nee McGrath) New Street. She is mourned by her bereaved sons Michael and Neilus, daughter Nora and by her neighbours, relatives and friends. The death occurred in London recently of Joe Myles, Mountcollins, a former Abbeyfeale footballer who played on the famous Limerick Minor Football team that won a Munster Championship in 1955. CARDS: Despite the very bad weather, a huge crowd attended Meenkilly Card Game on Tuesday night and the results went as follows; Winners with 13 games were Dick Fitzgerald, Tom Murphy and John O`Connell. Two teams with 12 games each shared second prize. They were; Pat Doran, Liam Lane and Dan Brosnan. Mrs Crowley, Jimmy Sweeney and Bridie Collins. Ticket winners were Liam Lane, Jackie Harnett, Donal O`Connor, John O`Connell, Lena O`Connor and Danny O`Connell. Table prizes were won by Pat Fitzgerald, Jackie Harnett and Anton Lenihan. Door prizes went to Tom Murphy and John O`Connell. HANDBALL: Abbeyfeale Handball Alley will be open for supervised practice for beginners and juveniles each Saturday between 11am and 3pm. Playing gear, including clean runners, is essential and the cost is ?1 per person to cover lighting. (A ball will be provided) Club membership for the year has been fixed at ?25 for adults and ?5 for U/16ns. Membership may be paid to Paddy Reidy before 31st January. HURLING: Indoor hurling for all age groups from 7 years upwards is now being held in the GAA Complex each Sunday between 4pm and 6pm. The cost is ?1 per session and training gear and indoor shoes are necessary. SOCIAL: The Abbeyfeale Coursing Club Social was held in the GAA Club on Saturday night and was very well supported both by members and the general public. KARATE: An Open Seminar was hosted by Abbeyfeale Karate Club recently and was well attended. The instructor was Sensei Scott Langley, a graduate of Japanese Instructors Course. SOCCER: Abbeyfeale soccer players have enjoyed a free weekend as there were no matches played in the Desmond League on Sunday due to bad weather conditions. RUGBY: In rugby, Abbeyfeale are top of division 3 of the Munster Junior League following a comprehensive 30-5 win over Kinsale at The Grove on Sunday. Next Sunday, the Fealesiders face Garryowen at home in the Munster Junior Plate. INTERPUB QUIZ: The Interpub Quiz started for the New Year last Thursday night at the Bunker Bar, Main St. It proved to be a very successful night with a large turnout of publicans on the night these Quizzes raise a Huge Amount of much needed money for worthy causes within the parish. Last week ?500 was raised for Bórd Na Nóg. Winners on the night were the Harry Grocers. This week’s quiz takes place at the Feale Bar on this Thursday night. Chernobyl Concert: Reminder of the concert to raise funds for a group of nurses Travelling to Chernobyl from Tralee General Hospital. Will be held at Siamsa Tire, Tralee on this Wednesday night, Wednesday 21st January. Songs from the musicals. Performed by Mr Bryan Carr & Friends. OBITUARIES: The parish was deeply saddened to hear of the Deaths of Mrs Chrissie Allen (Hillview Crescent), Doon Road, Ballybunion and late of Main Street, Ballybunion. Widow of the late John Allen, Chrissie came to Ballybunion as a young woman to work with Mrs Nancy Shortt at her Hairdressing Business, on Main St, Chrissie was a warm always cheerful person. Ann her warmth will be sadly missed by her sons Joe, Pat, Tom, Maurice and Mark, Daughters, Norma, Jennifer and Christine. Families & Friends, Deepest Sympathy is extended. The death also took place of Mr William (Billy) Scanlan, Retired Farmer of Farranpierce, Ballybunion. Billy died at the home of Patrick O’Sullivan, Beale, Ballybunion with whom Billy spent his latter years. To the O’Sullivan Family, Billy’s relatives and friends deepest sympathy is extended. Ballybunion also lost one of its favourite sons with the death of Mr Brendan Keane, Doon Rd, Ballybunion. The writer has fond memories of Brendan from getting a clip round the ear for misbehaving at the local cinema as a child to working with him as an Adult Always entertaining. Brendan had a wonderful sense of Humour that will be sadly missed by his loving family Daughter Teresa, Sons Kevin and John. Sisters Peggy Doon, Ballybunion, Mary England, Brother Kevin Scotland , Families relatives and friends. Deepest sympathy is extended. BORD na nOG: The AGM of Beale Bord na Nog was held last Saturday night at the Community Centre. The Chairman thanked the outgoing committee, the sponsors, and those who helped during the year. Trainer Paul Enright and Committee members Liam Browne and Lena O’Sullivan resigned their positions and did not seek re -election. The following officers were elected -Chairman John Larkin, Treasurer Tommy Twomey, PRO: Mairead O’Neill, Trainers Mairead O’Neill, Trainers U-8 to U-10. Padraig O’Sullivan, Dave Breen, John Farrell, Stephen Linnane, PJ O’Boyle. U-12 MP O’Sullivan, Padraig O’ O’Sullivan. U-14 John Larkin and John Joy. U-12 and U-14 Katie Kennelly, Helen O’Connell, Brid Griffin, Eileen O’Sullivan. Fund Raising Committe Tommy Twomey, David Breen, Mike O’Connell, Catherine Ellis, Declan Farrell, Danny O’Sullivan. We wish to appeal to parents of players to help keep Bord na Nog viable. We need new blood to help our trainers. There will be a meeting next Friday 23rd in the Community Centre. We had a brilliant year success wise with North Kerry and county league and championship under our belt. It would be a pity if our fine record in Bord na Nog discounted due to a lack of parental assistance. SOCCER: Lisselton Rovers senior side in front of a large home following left it very late to win the FAI Junior Cup game in Tralee last Sunday against Sligo side Manor Hamilton. Lisselton scored 20 seconds into the injury time to equalise with a brilliant strike by super sub Jer Lovette. In extra time, Lisselton scored from a brilliant David Conway free kick to put Lisselton into the last 16 teams in the biggest Junior Cup competition in Europe. Mark Hannon received man of the match. Full match report in this paper. Fixtures: We are back to the turn of the Youths again this week. On this Sunday at 2pm, in the KDL Tralee, our Youths take on the mighty Fairview Rangers in the last 16 of the FAI Cup. Remember two years ago Lisselton overcame Wembley of Limerick to reach the last eight of the Munster Cup. However Fairview have a huge tradition and will be hard to overcome. We wish the best to the entire team and we hope to have a big following in Tralee on Sunday. Also on this Friday night in the KDL at 8pm, our senior side who had that great win on Sunday will take on Tralee Dynamos in the premier league. Our B team are out on Sunday morning. Fundraising: The Lisselton Rovers Club are organising a huge Video Race Night at the Golf Hotel, Ballybunion on Friday, February 13. We are asking for the entire parish to come behind this event, we have not gone to the parish for support since 1998. We now have a U16 A Youth team, B team and the senior side Club members and players will be calling over the next couple of weeks seeking your support. SIAMSA TIRE: Don’t forget the grand show tonight, Wednesday at Siamsa Tire, Tralee. This has been organised by Bryan Carr our well known singer and the nurses at Bon Secours Hospital, Tralee. This is for a deserving charity which is the Chernobyl Victims Fund. SOCIAL: Well done to organisers of the Pioneer Social held at the Golf Hotel, Ballybunion on Friday last. Upwards of 200 attended and all enjoyed a very good meal and danced the night away. MAGAZINE: A meeting will be held on this Thursday, January 22, at Lisselton School. Time 8pm. DEATH: Sympathy is extended to Cathriona O’Connor and family NT, Gahard, Lisselton, following death of her mother Mrs Mary O’Neill, Kilflynn. TABLE QUIZ: First of a series of quizzes will commence on Friday, January 30,m at the Thatch in aid of the Irish Kidney Assoc, Rural Transplant Support Centre in Beaumont Hospital. See next weeks notes for more details. LOTTO: The Lotto took place in Tomaisins on Friday for a jackpot of ?2,900. The numbers drawn were 1, 14, 20 and 21. There was no jackpot winner. Winners of the lucky dips were Molly and Tadhg Corkery, Cork; Jamie Riordan, Listowel; John Enright, Dromlought; Margaret Enright, Moyvane and Janet Horan, Ballyegan. The winners of the free tickets were Ciaran and Darragh Griffin, London; Ita O'Driscoll, Tullamore and John Fitzgerald. Next Friday’s draw will take place in Cantillon’s for a jackpot of ?3,000. SCOR: The North Kerry Finals of Senior Scor will take place on February 7 in Asdee Community Centre at 8pm sharp. A new Scor competition is to be introduced in early March, namely Scor na bPaisti. This is a competition for National Schools with no Parish or club boundaries involved. The eight categories are figure dancing, solo singing, instrumental music, recitation, ballad group, question time, novelty act and set dancing. Anyone interested in taking part should contact Pat Griffin (068) 22507 or Gerald Fitzgerald (068) 21118. SOCIAL: Ballydonoghue GAA annual social will take place in The Golf Hotel, Ballybunion on February 21. The victorious minor and junior teams will be presented with their medals. More details about the social will follow in the coming weeks. MEMBERSHIP . . . for the coming year has to be paid before February 28. Membership is as follows — U16's and OAP's, ?5; 16-18 and non playing members, ?10 and playing members, ?20. SYMPATHY: Ballydonoghue GAA club wish to extend their deepest sympathy to the family of the late Danny Enright, Tarbert who died on Wednesday. Ballydonoghue fans will have a lot of fond memories of Danny, as it was Danny who refereed the 1992 North Kerry Championship, which saw Ballydonoghue defeat Listowel to win their first Championship in 33 years. May he rest in peace. LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Saturday nights GAA Lotto, 2, 4, 8, 20. The jackpot of ?2,350 was not won. Next weeks jackpot will be ?2,400. The two ?50 winners were Thomas Foran, Tiershanahan, Liam O’Halloran, Ballinclemessig. The ?25 winners was Norma Corridon, Hartys Terrace. 
GAA: The AGM of Ballyheigue GAA Club was held in the Community Centre on Sunday. The following officers were elected for 2004. President, Willie Leen. Chairman Brendan Dunne, Vice Chairman, Kieran Casey. Assist Vice Chairman, Jeremiah Slattery. Secretary to be filled later. Assistant Secretary/registrar, Susan Casey. Treasurer, John Hartnett. Assist Treasurer, Alan O’Halloran. PRO John Brassil. Co Board Delegate James O’Connor. N Kerry Board delegates, Mike Kenny, Willie Leen. Bord na Nog delegate Brendan Dunne. Scór delegate, James O’Connor. Field officers, Michael Burkett, Mike Quill. Members of the Executive, Christy O’Mahony, Liam O’Mahony, Richard Hartnett, Kevin O’Mahony. Minor u21 trainer/selectors, Michael Burkett, Brendan Dunne. Junior selectors John Casey, Kieran O’Mahony. Senior selectors Mike O’Carroll, Patrick Dunne. Field committee, Michael Burkett, Mike Quill, Jack Lucid, Kieran O’Mahony, Jimmy Casey, Tim Walsh, Thomas Flahive, Ger Lucid. Lotto committee, Willie Joe Leen, John Casey, Kevin O’Sullivan, Patrick Corridan, John Hartnett, Edmond O’Sullivan. Finance committee, Tommy James, Tim Kenny, Mike Kenny, Alan O’Halloran, John Brassil, Mike Lucid, John lucid. Ladies committee, Delia Casey, Dora James, Betty O’Mahony, Susan Casey. Senior captain, Willie Joe Leen. Vice Captain, John Healy. 
BINGO: Starts this Thursday night, January 22 at 8.30 in the Community Centre. 
COURSING CLUB LOTTO: The winning numbers were 7, 13, 15, 22. There was no winner of the jackpot. ?50 winners Rita Stack, Ballyheigue, and Pat Wallace, Tiershannon, Ballyheigue. This weeks jackpot ?5,400. Draw in Castle Arms on Sunday night. 
CCE MEETING: All members of the Ballyheigue branch of Comhaltas are asked to attend a meeting in the Community Centre on Monday, January 26 at 9pm. 
PLAQUE: Anybody interested in having their name inscribed in the plaque on the Sportsfield wall can contact any member of the club. 
GLOR na nGAEL: Beidh cruinniú ag 'Glór na nGael Bhaile Uí Thaidhg' ag an White Sands ar an gCéadaoin seo chugainn ag a 8. A meeting of the Ballyheigue branch of Glór na nGael will take place at the White Sands on Wednesday, January 21 at 8. Fáilte roimh chách. Everybody welcome. An Tochar adult education centre, Causeway is offering a wide range of night classes, cert cookery and food service courses and back to education classes. Registeration for all courses at An Tochar Centre on Monday, January 26 from 7.30pm to 9pm. 
AGM: The AGM of the Ballyheigue/Tiershannaahan/Rathmorrel Fianna Fáil Cumann will take place at Kirby’s Bar in Ballyheigue on Friday 23 at 9pm TRIBUTE: Saturday night next, January 24, will be a great night in the National Concert Hall, Dublin when friends and colleagues from the worlds of literature and entertainment pay tribute to Brendan Kennelly. It will be a night of music, song, dance, poetry and craic with the well known Carrie Crowley of RTE acting as compére. Among the performers will be Ronnie Drew, Siamsa Tire, Ceoil Ciarrai, Kathy Nugent, etc, etc, and all proceeds go to local projects. 
SOCCER: Lenamore defeated Ballybunion 3-2 in a premier division game at Ballybunion on Sunday. Sean Lynch (2) and John McGrath scored the goals and the team was Rúarai Dennehy, Eamon Flavin, Ciaran Dennehy, Derek Nolan, Steve Donegan, John McGrath, Liam Carmody, Denis Kennelly, David Collins, Brendan Bambury, Sean Lynch. Subs who played were Mce O’Halloran, Ml Kissane. The weekly lotto draw was held at the Horse and Hound Bar and there was no winner of the ?3000 and ?2700 jackpots. The numbers drawn were 1, 4, 9, 12 and 1, 3, 6, 9 and the 3 x ?30 lucky dips were Saoirse Ahern, Sallowglen; Eddie Hennessy, Clounmacon; Sinead Dennehy, Bridge St. The bar prize sponsored by Vincent Walsh was won by June O’Connor, Sand Quay. Next weeks draw will be at O’Carrolls Bar. 
GAA NOTES: Don’t forget the AGM on Friday night, January 30, at 8.30pm, in the Community Centre. Everybody is welcome. There was no winner of the ?5300 jackpot when the weekly draw was held at O’Connors Bar on Sunday night. The numbers drawn were 8, 19, 21, 24 and the four ?25 lucky dips were Niall Fitzgerald, Tarbert; Michael Hall, Asdee; Tony Walsh, Ahanagran and Pat Culhane, Listowel. The bar prize sponsored by Jerry O’Connor was won by Terry Sharkey, Main St. Next draw at O’Carrolls Bar on Sunday night. 
GUN CLUB: The Ballylongford Gun Club would like to thank all the sponsors of their Christmas raffle and also all who supported the raffle. It was a tremendous success and the prizes went as follows: 1, M O’Connell, Listowel; 2, Noel Boyle, Well St; 3, Julie O’Halloran, Main St; 4, Matt Quinn, Asdee; 5, John Dee, Rusheen; 6, Dan Kiely, Tarbert; 7, Jim Moroney, Rusheen; 8, Tommy Carroll, Gurtard; 9, Edwina Enright, Ahanagran; 10, Willie Kelly, Rusheen; 11, Georgie O’Donnell, Kilgarvan; 12, Denis Enright, Ahanagran; 13, Maurice Flavin, Rusheen; 14, Darren Moloney, Listowel; 15, Paudie Collins, Clounmacon; 16, Margaret Prendergast, Bandon; 17, Noreen Keane, Main St. The draw held at Finucanes Bar and hosted by Liam Purtill MCC, was a very enjoyable occasion. The Club again thanks everybody that helped to make it such a success. AGM:Please note that the upcoming Bord na nÓg annual general meeting of Ballymacelligott will take place at our meeting rooms on Thursday 29th January 2004 at 8pm sharp.All parents are welcome. 
MEMBERSHIP: Membership for the year 2004 is now due. Membership for 2004 is ?20 per adult and ?10 per student. Maureen O’Shea, Club Secretary, is collecting membership at present. 
FOUNDATION LEVEL COURSE: The Kerry Coaching and Games Development Committee will be organising and running Foundation Level Courses for all Clubs in the County. This course deals with the Coaching of Juvenile teams in Clubs. Any parent or coach who wishes to avail of a Foundation Level Course in football or hurling may contact Maureen O’Shea or Maurice O’Reilly. 
TRALEE DISTRICT BOARD AGM: The annual general meeting of Tralee District Bord will take place on Monday, February 2 at 8.30pm at John Mitchel’s Clubhouse at 8.30pm. 
CLUB FLEECES AND T-SHIRTS: Club Fleeces and Jerseys are available for anyone who wishes to purchase them. Both fleeces and T-shirts have the club crests. 
KIELDUFF COMMUNITY CENTRE: All is back to normal with a full line up of activities during the week. Everyone from the very young to the older members of our community is been catered for. Beavers on Monday evenings, Active and Retired group on Tuesday afternoon, The Cards are going great guns on Wednesday Night and John Drellan assures me that any new players will be looked after well. The Brownies are back in full flight on Friday evenings. 
DANCING: Liam Goggin is the dancing master on Saturday afternoon when all the little ones are put through there paces on the finer points of dancing, when Liam has finished with these youngsters they will be able to take on the old folks with old time waltzes. Children from all areas are welcome to these classes. 
KERRY GAA SUPPORTERS CLUB: The annual social will be held in Ballygarry House Hotel on this Friday January 23rd. Johnny Reidy and Eddie Leen will provide the music. Tickets will cost ?25; meal will be served at 8:45pm sharp. Please note that doors close at 9pm. The Kerry GAA player of the year will be selected on the night and as usual it promises to be a great night out. Tickets available from Jerry Savage (087) 6724641. 
HANDBALL CLUB: Membership is now due for renewal fees for 2004 are as follows: Adult / Family ?40; Underage ?13; Associate ?20. An officer of the club will be in attendance in the office at the big court to accept membership on this Thursday and Friday 22nd and 23rd January from 7pm to 8pm and from 11am to 12.30pm on Saturday. As there are serious insurance and competition implications involved all prospective members should insure that their membership is paid up this weekend. 
COMMUNITY TRANSPORT: The bus serving Kielduff, Tylough, Reamore, Rathanny, Chutehall and into Tralee continues to run every Friday Morning and returns in the after noon. To avail of the service contact must be made on the day before. Ring 1890528528 it is a local number. 
HAIR TODAY GONE TOMORROW: The razor is sharpened and the big night for the "Baldy Bunch" has arrived! This Saturday night in Glenduff House the big Shave off is on. Who is going to be the Barber of Kielduff? Some good sheep Shearer's are available at a small cost. Will James take the plunge? All will be revealed this Saturday Night and the proceeds will go to Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children in Crumlin. This should be a hair-raising experience (for some at least!). 
ATHLETICS: When Donal O’Callaghan of Raemore, Ballymac won the Kerry Novice cross country title last October, he was described by one sports writer as been Kerry’s brightest new prospect. Since then he has gone from strength to strength and it was no surprise that he was named on the Kerry senior cross country team for last Sundays Munster c’ship at Carraig Na Bhfear, Co Cork, however few would have expected the outcome which saw him lead the team home in 18th position, O’Callaghan got good back up support from Arthur Fitzgerald, 25th, Cian Murphy 30th, and John Barrett, the race was won by Donacha O’Mahony, a man with very strong connections with the Gurranemore area of Ballymacelligott. If O’Callaghan can maintain his present rate of improvement, he could be a very serious contender for a place on the Irish mountain racing team for the World c’ships in Italy next September, the trials for that event will be held in Killarney in August. Training for athletes, fun runners and for those just wishing to lose the Christmas bulge continues at the Creamery yard, each Monday night at 7pm. 
GAA LOTTO: Many congratulations to Mrs Breda O’Leary on winning the jackpot of ?2,050 this week. Her lucky numbers were 5, 8, 18 and 19. Jackpot starts again this weekend at ?1,000. 
PARENT AND TODDLER GROUP: The group will be meeting up again on Thursday, January 29, 11.30 to 1pm, at St Brendans Comm Hall, Ballydwyer. Childminders also welcome to attend. The meetings will be every two weeks, until the end of February. please contact team managers. CARDS: 1, Jack Rahilly and Patie Broderick; 2, Karen McAuliffe and Denny Sullivan, Maurice Leahy and Paddy Breen, Tom Hickey and Teddy Horgan, Dolly McAuliffe and Marty Murphy. Ladies - Peg Flynn and Ita Murphy. OVER 55’S CLUB: The Over 55’s Club will resume on Wednesday next, January 28, at the usual time. We look forward to seeing you then. CONGRATULATIONS: We offer our heartiest congratulations to Hannah Lane, daughter of Jeremiah and Mary, Knockadarrive who has been chosen as student of the year in her class at UCC. Hannah is doing a Government and Public Policy degree and is in his second year of a four year course. This has come as a surprise to her but she deserves it for achieving the highest marks in her year and she takes every opportunity to broader her knowledge of her subjects. She will be presented with her award by President McAleese at UCC on February 4. Well done Hannah. MASS: It is two years now since the tragic death of James O’Rourke, Ahane. Mass will be celebrated for him next Friday, January 23, at the Church of the Assumption, Abbeyfeale at 8pm, to which all are welcome to attend. DEATH: It was with great sadness that we learned of the rather sudden death of Maura Browne, The Cross and late of Donadea, Co Kildare last week. Maura came to live in Brosna some years ago and she endeared herself to all who knew her by her pleasant and lively personality. She was an esteemed member of the Over 55’s Club and we shall miss her there. To her son Joe and all her family we extend our deepest sympathy. She was laid to rest last Monday in Co Kildare. May she rest in Peace. SCÓR NA NÓG: Congratulations this week to our instrumental group which did so well in the “Scór na nÓg” competition in Watergrasshill, Co Cork, over the weekend. They now progress on to the Munster final. ENVIRONMENT: The developments at Brosna Cross has greatly enhanced the village. Visibility on approach roads has dramatically improved. The effect of the wall gives a very nice aspect to entry to Brosna from the Castleisland side. The footpaths also give an additional safety value at this busy intersection. Recent developments like the tanning of the street and the restoration of the Square has brought the village on a great deal in a short space of time. RAMBLING HOUSE: Make your way to the Brosna Rambling House this very Thursday night, starting at 9pm. This year to date has been the most successful ever. According to the house director, Josie McCreesh the crowds, over the Christmas holidays exceeded all expectations. Such is the fame of the Rambling House in Brosna that it can attract performers from all over North Kerry, North Cork and West Limerick. A mighty advertisement for the Parish, you have not been to Brosna until you paid a visit to this unique house. For further details contact Josie McCreesh at (068) 44109. WEBSITE: Another website has emerged from Brosna cyberspace. This time it is the Brosna GAA site under the administration of the aptly name mickmae. It can be accessed at www.geocities.com/brosna-gaa. Great photos of the Annual Social can be seen as can an introductory account of the Parish. As a matter of fact you are invited to submit to the guestbook and if you do not feel like doing that you can view the guestbook and read the comments. GAA: Lotto - The numbers drawn were 11, 12, 20, 23. There was no jackpot winner. ?35, Johnny Cahill, Brosna; Promoter Ellen Cronin, Brosna. Lucky dips ?15, Eric Lacy, Mountcollins; Jack Barrett, Brosna; Michael Cronin, Brosna; Willie O’Donoghue, Brosna. Next weeks jackpot will be ?1000 at Kate Pats Bar, Brosna, on Monday, January 26. Membership - Only fully paid up members of the Brosna GAA Club will be considered for tickets for Kerry games in 2004. Membership - Adults ?20; Students ?10. Closing date for membership is March 17. Meeting - A meeting of the Brosna GAA Club will be held in the dressing rooms at 9pm, on Friday, January 30. SINN FÉIN: Brosna/ Knocknagoshel Cumann meeting will be held at 9pm, Friday, January 23, in Knocknagoshel Community Centre. Tóireasa Ni Fheiriste will attend. KDYS West Kerry regional Variety finals were held in Castlegregory on Friday night last. Winners in the following categories – Dance – Camp Youth Club, Solo Musician – Cloghane Youth Club, Group Musicians – Annascaul Youth Club and Spotlight – Annascaul Youth Club. Congratulations to all and good luck in the Co. finals which will be held on this Saturday in Aras Padraig, Killarney. GAA: West Kerry B final – On Sunday last Annascaul turned up to play in the replay of the West Kerry B final in Castlegregory. An Gaeltacht were unable to field a team, and the West Kerry Board made a decision to award the game to Annascaul. Congratulations to all involved. The team is managed by Martin Knightly and joint captains Timmy Griffin and Paul Moriarty received the cup. After the game Tim Falvey was awarded the honour of B Player of the year. Victory Social – Annascaul social will be held on this Saturday night, at the Hillgrove Hotel. Meal – 8.30 p.m. Buses leave Camp at 7.00 p.m. and Annascaul at 7.30 p.m. 5 Euros per person. COMMUNITY COUNCIL: Following a meeting before Christmas with Paul O Connor, West Kerry Engineer, potholes were filled in several local bye roads. Camp Community Council would like to acknowledge and thank Paul for his support in this. TWINNING: The Annual General Meeting of Camp Town Twinning will be held in the Old School Camp on Tuesday, 27th. January at 8.30 p.m. Anybody interested in travelling to Glomel in July or indeed anybody else interested in getting involved in twinning are welcome to attend. AGM: The following were elected at the Castlegregory AGM: President: Michael McDowell; Vice President: Paddy Healy, Mick Murphy, John Kenny, Timmy Kelliher, Tadgh Flynn, Mike Keane and Timmy Brosnan; Chairman Joe Wrenn; Vice Chairman; Tim Dennehy; Secretary Dermot Lynch; Treasurer Mossie Spillane; Registrar Dermot Lynch; PRO Ger O’Callaghan. Delegate to the County board: Michael John O’Shea. Delegates to the West Kerry Board: Tim Dennehy, Jimmy O’Connor and Joe Wrenn. Delegates to the UK Convention: Tim Dennehy, Jimmy O’Connor, Joe Wrenn. Senior team trainer: Brian Neenan; Senior Team Selectors: Donal Moriarty and Mossie Spillane. CASTLEGRAND: Last week’s draw was held on Friday, January 16th at Tigh Tomsai’s. The winning numbers were: 9, 16, 20 and 24. There was no winner of the jackpot of ?1,200. There were 4 match 3 winners: Carol McCormick, Green Room, Francis Burke, Tralee, C Brown, Maharees, Charlotte, c/o Tigh Tomsai’s and Gerard Mulligan, c/o Ferriter’s. Next week’s draw will take place in Ferriter’s Bar on Friday, January 23rd. The jackpot will be ?1,275. PANTOMIME GROUP: will be presenting Cindrella at the Castlegregory Community Centre on the following dates: Thursday, Jan 22, Friday, Jan 23, and Saturday, Jan 24 at 8pm and there will be a matinee showing on Sunday, Jan 25 at 3pm. Tickets are ?8 for adults and ?4 for children and are available only at the Information Centre weekdays 9-30 -5pm. (71 -39422). Get your tickets early. Proceeds will benefit local charities. If there are any notes you would like included in the Castlegregory notes, please call in to The Visitor Information Center or phone us on 7139422 before 12pm on Mondays. THANK YOU: Chris Doran (Waterford), nephew of Chris Stokes, Graigue, would like to take this opportunity of thanking John O’Regan, teachers and students of Causeway Comprehensive School for their warm welcome, which he received on his recent tour of the local schools, promoting his entry in Your A Star. He would also like to thank Killury and Drumnacurra Schools for the same reception he received. Please continue voting for him. 
DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to the relatives and friends of Mary McCabe, Ballinorig, who died recently also to the McEnery family on the death of Catherine McEnery, Dromartin. 
GAA LOTTO: There was no winner of the lotto jackpot. The numbers drawn were 5, 8, 15, 20. The following won cash prizes of ?25 each. Purcells, Ballyduff, Giles Legg, Clash, Eric McHale, Slievewadarra, Noel Lynch, Ardagh. Next weeks jackpot ?10,900. 
CARD DRIVE: The results of the 41 card drive, held at Hartys on Friday, January 16. Winners John Leahy, Ann Walsh. Runners up, Joan Kenny, Kathy Neilan, Sheila Ashe. Table prize, Peggy Godley. Sunday, January 18, winners, Joan Kenny, Noreen O’Connor. Runners up, Gerald Lawlor, James Neilan. Next drive, Friday, and Sunday. An Tochar Adult Education Centre, Causeway, is offering a wide range of night classes, cert cookery and food service courses and back to education classes. Registeration for all courses at An Tochar Centre on Monday, January 26 from 7.30pm to 9pm. SYMPATHY: Is extended to the following families in the Parish who suffered bereavements last week: McElligott family, Knockanish on the death of their mother, Mary McElligott (nee Higgins); the Keenan family, Tallaght, Fenit, on the death of Peter Keenan; to Neilus O’Shea and Kathleen Moran, Blackpool and their families on the death of their mother Mrs O’Shea, in Lixnaw; the Shanahan family, Lussmaugh on the death of Pauline Blennerhassett, Caherleheen, Ballymac. GAA: The Club lottery will be held this Friday, January 23, in the Tankard, Kilfenora with a jackpot of ?3350 and the usual game of cards. SCOR NA NOG: Well done to our quiz team of Tom O’Donnell, Darragh Herlihy and Ross Reale who qualified in second place in the Munster semi-final in Watergrasshill on Sunday last. Best of luck in final. GAA: The Club Agm was held last Saturday night in the Community Centre. A good crowd attended and it was very encouraging to see a big turnout of the younger members who participated in the lively discussion. Chairman Justin Brosnan commended all who participated in club affairs during the past year. We have, he said, a fine bunch of young players who show great commitment to the cause. He thanked all officers and selectors with a special word of praise for those who coach the U10’s and U8’s. Good discipline, he continued, will be the watchword of the club. One of the priorities in 2004 will be the acquisition of land for expansion of our ever growing club. The secretary’s report praised the work of the selectors and players of the senior team who probably didn’t reap the rewards their skill merited. At underage level all teams performed creditably with the U16’s winning their county league and the Brendan’s championship. Great strides were made by the U14 team. After a difficult financial year much work will have to go into keeping the money flowing. Officers elected: Patron - Fr Denis O’Mahony; President - Seamus Griffin; Vice Presidents - Jackie Doyle, Martin Ferris, Tom Lenihan, Mick Moore; Chairman - Justin Brosnan; Vice chair finance - Liam Cotter; Vice chair grounds - John Scroope Jnr; Treasurers - Dermot Crowley, JP Daly; Secretary - Jimmy Turner; Registrar - Siobhan O’Mahony; Pro - Declan Parker; Asst Pro - Helena Griffin; Underage chair - Donal Fitzgibbon; Co Board delegate - Mike Moriarty; Tralee Board delegate - Tom Lenihan; Brendans Board - Maurice Harty. The Club Poker Classic will be held on February 13. It may be Friday, but it will be lucky for someone. Our Club Social will be held on February 21. It is hoped that all members will have paid up before the poker classic. JACKIE
Healy Rae will be in Murphy’s Pub Brandon on Thursday 22nd January at 9 O’ clock. Beidh Jaeicí Healy Rae i Tigh Tabhairne i Mhurchú, Bréanainn oíche Deardaoin an 22ú Eanair ag a naoi a chlog. Congratulations to Mike Lyne and Mary Normoyle-Lyne on the birth of baby Siobhán. SYMPATHY: Deepest Sympathies are extended to Paddy Lynch and family on the death of his brother Thomas Lynch, who died and was buried over the Christmas period in New York City. Deepest sympathies are extended to Bill Scales and family on the death of his mother who died last Tuesday and who was buried in England. CONGRATS to Una Travers who went through last Fri. night in the youth club talent contest and will be performing again in the next heat this Fri . COURSES: Registration for intended Spring courses at Halla le Chéile will be on Thursday 22nd January at 7 O' Clock- courses include French, Computers, Irish Photography, fire training. 066-7138137. The photography tutor will be present, to give a course outline. Beidh cláiriú dos na cúrsaí a mbeidh ag tosnú san Earrach i Halla le Chéile, ar an Deardaoin, an 22ú Eanair ag a seacht a chlog- clúdaithe tá cursaí Francise, Riomhaire, gaelige, fótagrafaíocht, agus traenáil tine. Beidh an teagascoir fótagrafaíocht láithreach, chun aon ceisteanna a fhreagairt CARD DRIVE: There will be a fundraising 31 Progressive card Drive at Halla le Chéile , Baile Uí Dhuibhne, Sunday 1st February at 7.30pm. Proceeds go to the community centre. The new post office will open this Thursday 22nd January. Beidh an Oifig an phoist nua ag oscailt ar an Deardaoin an 22ú Eanair. GLOR na GAEL: The Glór na nGael AGM will be on Wed. Feb. 4th 2004 @ 7.30 – we urge new members to join. Beidh an cruinniú cinn bliana do Glór na nGael ar an Céadaoin an 4ú Feabhra ag 7.30, táimid ag lorg baill nua. Cordal Bord Na nog AGM was held at the club rooms last Friday night, with history being made on the night, with the election of a female trainer within the Board for the very first time. Margaret O’Donoghue, daughter of Eamon and Joan O’Donoghue, Ballinard will be co training the u12 team. After the secretaries and chairmans address, and a fully detailed and well presented treasurers report, all the outgoing officers were re elected unopposed. The people in charge of Cordal Bord Na Nog for 2004 are as follows. Chairman, Mike Flynn, vice chairman, James O’Leary, secretary Marie O’Leary, ass Sec Rose Cotter, Joint treasurers, Ann Drumm, Catherine McGaley. Delegate to Co Board, Dom O’Donoghue, delegate to District board, Thade O’Donoghue. Club referee, Chris Lyons. Trainers as follows, u8 James O’Leary, Tommy O’Connor, u10 Tommy Reidy, John O’Callaghan, u12 Margaret O’Donoghue, Andy O’Leary, u14 Ned Flynn, John O’Callaghan, u16 Thade O’Donoghue, Dom O’Donoghue, Mike Flynn. Best of luck in 2004. CONGRATS: And best wishes are extended to John Clifford, Barness from Cordal Bord Na Nog, who was elected Chairman of Castleisland District Bord Na Nog for another term at the Boards AGM last week. John and his fellow officers are doing fantastic work with the smooth running of underage football matches at district level. ARRIVAL: Congratulations to Darren and Rose Cotter, Glenlarhern, from the Cordal GAA Club, on the birth of their new baby girl. Rose is very much involved in Cordal GAA matters, as she is joint treasurer of the senior club and assistant secretary of Bord Na Nog. Congratulations also from the parents council of Kilmury NS, where Rose is the Chairperson. YOUTH CLUB: The Club recently hosted the Flesk Mini-Region Talent Show in Currow Hall. On the night, nearly 300 young people from Scartaglin, Castleisland, Currow, Currans, Ballymac and Cordal attended. The Club would like to thank John and Mike Ahern for helping to organise the Hall; Gerard O’Sullivan, Mike Fleming and Dave Fleming for transporting the chairs and leaders; Kieran Glover, Jerry Brosnan, Michelle Murphy, Maura O’Sullivan, Siobhan O’Sullivan, Elaine Mitchell, Jacqui Galwey, Anne Burke, Catherine Cronin, Catherine O’Sullivan for organising and supervising the night. On Sunday last the Club took part in the Flesk Region Indoor Soccer finals in Castleisland. All our teams put up a great performance with the U18 boys defeating Scartaglen 1-0 in the final and our U18 girls losing their final 3-1 to Scartaglin. Our u15 boys lost their semi-final 3-0 to Dromtarriffe and the U15 girls lost a cliff hanging semi-final to Dromtarriffe 2-0 on penalties after drawing 2-2 after extra time. Our teams on the day were U15 boys: Eric Horan, Patrick McCarthy, Mike McCarthy, David Conroy, Mike King, Danny Brosnan, Joe Daly, Tommy Sullivan. U15 girls: Kathy Ann Myers, Aisling O’Sullivan, Una Geaney, Sheila Brosnan, Deirdre O’Sullivan, Eileen Cronin. U18 boys: David Nelligan, Eugene Cronin, Timmy Kelly, Tommy Broderick, Michael John Scanlon, Richard Teahan. U18 girls: Joan Marie O’Shea, Catherine Cronin, Catherine O’Sullivan, Anna Burke, Mary B Carey, Mary Francis Brosnan. Leaders Moss Leane, Kieran Glover and Jerry Brosnan coached the teams on the day. On this Friday night the Club will host its Annual Disco in Currans Hall. The disco will take place from 9pm to 12 midnight and will be open to all Youth Club members. AWARD: Congratulations to the O’Sullivan family and staff on receiving for the eleventh time the Excellence Ireland Hygiene Award, accepted by Máire at the Berkeley Court Hotel, Dublin on Tuesday night, January 13. PARISH COUNCIL: Meeting on Monday, January 26, at 8pm, in the School Hall. All members are asked to please attend. BASKETBALL: The Annual Martha Boyle Memorial Tournament takes place on Sunday, January 25. It comprises of an U13 girls tournament. Six teams will compete in this competition. First game begins at 1pm. Everyone welcome. Girls U16 on July 31, 2004 and wishing to play Community Games Basketball are reminded to be in Currow Community Centre at 7.30pm, on Tuesday, January 20. Boys U16 on July 31, 2004 are interested in playing Community Games Basketball and also reminded to be in Currow Community Centre at 8pm, on Tuesday, January 20. Next meeting of St Bridgets Basketball Club will take place on Thursday, January 22, in Currow Community Hall at 8pm. MAKE THE DIFFERENCE: To the lives of the 400,000 people living with disabilities in Ireland. Step 1 - Think about discrimination and barriers faced daily by people with disabilities living in Ireland. Do not park on footpaths as you will block access for people with disabilities. Never distract or hinder a working Guide Dog. Acknowledge that people with disabilities live, enjoy and participate in life just like everyone else. See a persons ability first before their disability. Be yourself around people with disabilities and their parents. Speak directly to a person with a disability, no to their companion. Always ask - never presume. Ask questions, be aware, be inclusive. Be aware that not all disabilities are apparent and be sensitise to people’s different needs. Be considerate and appropriate in my use of language. DEATH: The death occurred in England (suddenly) of Mr Patrick (Pa) Curtin, Main St, Castleisland. Deepest sympathy is extended to his mother Mrs Maura Curtin and family, his sister Mrs Maxey Fleming and family, Currow Village. May he rest in peace. Deepest sympathy is extended to Mrs Eileen O’Connor and family, on the death of her mother Mrs Julia Ita Shine, Rockchapel and Currow Village. May she rest in peace. PARTY: The annual senior citizens party will be held in The Hillgrove on Sunday next at 3pm. Tickets ?10. Spot prizes would be appreciated. WALK: The walking club this Sunday, January 25 goes from Mount Eagle to Ballyferriter, its a moderate walk, leaving at 10am. Contact Sean 9152337. DEATH: The death occurred at his residence The Grove on Friday last of Gerard (Jed) Bowler. Interment was at Dunallrain Cemetery, Ballyferriter on Sunday. The death took place at his residence, Baile Na Buaile on January 16 of Geza Miklosi. Burial was in St Brendans Cemetery on Sunday. BORD NA NOG: At the Dingle AGM of Bord Na Nog, held on Friday night last, the following officers were elected for the coming year. Chairman, Noel Evans. Vice Chairman, Brendan Devane, Secretary Maurice O’Connor, Asst Secretary, Colm Neylon. Treasurer Johnny Walker. PRO Jimmy Bambury. In charge of underage teams, u10 and 12, Vincent Flannery. U14 Frank Quaid. U16 Noel Evans. CARD DRIVE: Castlegregory Bord Na Nog are holding a progressive 31 card drive in the Community Hall on this Sunday night, at 7.30. ?550 in prize money with numerous spot prizes. TALK: Kevin Barton gives a talk on “Presenting the Past” and some heritage projects in the Diseart on this Friday, January 23 at 8pm. Failte roimh chach. LOTTO: There was no winner of the GAA lotto jackpot on Friday night last so ?2600 will be available at the next draw on Friday January, 22. Tickets may be had from club members. Numbers drawn last week: 2,10,19 &21 ?20 each to Kay Lane Coolnaleen, Adrian Hickey Trieneragh, Michael O Brien Scrahan, John Cotter Purt, Morgan Sheehy Kilcara. 5 Free tickets each to: Jean Louis Valentin Duagh, Tim McKenna Lyre, Sabrina O Brien Tralee, Siobhan Smith c/o Kostal PJ Buckley Lyre. Sellers Prize:Tom McMahon. AGM: The Annual General Meeting of Duagh GAA club will take place on Monday next January 26th in the school hall at 8.30pm sharp. Club membership will be collected on the night. RETIREMENT: Fr Paul Dillon of Trieneragh has retired home to his native Trieneragh and he gets our best wishes for a long and enjoyable retirement. Fr Paul regularly joins our other two priests Fr O Connell PP and Fr Tom Mc Mahon at both vigil and Sunday masses. BORD na nOg: Our winning Under 12 county league team and North Kerry Under 13 team will receive their medals at a function in the Three Mermaids Listowel on Sunday next January 21st at 5pm. Presenting the medals will be none other than Dara O Shea. Well done to all concerned. NOTES: If you have any items that you wish to have published in the Duagh Notes of the Kerryman please e-mail them to: pkeane@oceanfree.net HELLO again to all our readers. Welcome to our second Kerry deaf update of 2004. Thanks for all your feedback on our first notes especially from those who said they missed seeing them over the Christmas holidays. We have a few things planned for the next few weeks. One of the things we want to organise is for small trips for local deaf people over the age of 50. If you would like to get involved, please let us know. We would like for some of these members to visit local attractions such as museums/ parks/ towns/ friends etc. Our service will provide the transport. It will be a great way for members without transport to visit local places of interest or to meet local friends. A questionnaire has been sent our members over 50 years of age. If you don’t receive a copy, please let us know and we will send one to you. We are also doing an equipment questionnaire. As you are aware there was a grant scheme called TAGS- this is no longer available. The new grant scheme is called RAG (Resource Allocation Group). If you want to apply for equipment through RAG, you must be a medical cardholder- RAG will meet once a month to assess applications. There is a waiting list but hopefully, it wont be too long for people to obtain equipment. The equipment questionnaire is simple to fill in and it will help us to determine the equipment needs of our members. Contact us for the form and we will send it to you. Do you live in and around the Sliabh Luchra area (Castleisland, Currans, Currow etc)? Would you or your family members be interested in learning sign language? If so, please let us know, as we are involved in a project to try to meet the needs of families in the area. Along with sign language classes, we will also offer information and support to families. Classes will start towards the end of February in Castleisland. Applications from people in and around the Killarney area will also be considered. DATES for your Diary: We have a deaf member who is living in very poor housing conditions. As a way of solving this problem, we are looking for deaf and hearing volunteers for Saturday January 31 from 10.00 to 3.00 to help us redecorate our member’s house. This will include moving out old stuff, painting and redecorating part of the house to bring it up to a suitable standard. If you are able to spare a few hours, please contact Willie here at the Centre, as he will be the main volunteer on the day. From February 2-6, we will welcome two interpreter students from Trinity College Dublin. They are now doing an Interpreter training course. We are delighted these students will have their work experience outside of Dublin. It is good they create links and understanding of deaf issues outside of the capital. If you would like to meet them, do call into the Centre to meet and give them a very warm welcome. Over the coming months, we will also have two deaf students from Trinity College on placement with our service. They are on the Deaf Studies/ Sign Language teaching diploma. They will observe local tutors in our sign language classes. Again if you would like to meet them when they are here, please let us know. We would like to introduce them to the local deaf community, so that they can see if there is variation in Irish sign language here in Kerry. This will be valuable for them in their 
