sport gaa
{  
    October 28 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/localnotes/around-the-districts-35164666.html }
Community Council: With the completion, of the Streetscape plan, for Buttevant, Buttevant Community Council, is organising an official 'Street Opening Ceremony', to celebrate the occasion. There will be an official opening ceremony, performed by the Cork County Mayor, in the presence of other dignitaries, and those associated with the Streetscape plan. The community council is also planning a spectacular 'Christmas Street Party-Family Fun Day', for the local community, who were magnomonous, with their time, patience and tolerance, during the duration, of the street work. There will be numerous exhibition stalls, with various products, items and fancy goods, on display. It is hoped to provide many refreshments, on the day, for those attending, as this is an occasion, for all the community to celebrate, and become involved with. There will also be a spectacular 'Christmas Parade', with 'Santa Clause', leading the proceedings. The Christmas lights will also be switched on, on the evening, and there will be much celebration, and merriment, for all to enjoy. The celebrations will be held, on December 10 th., 2016, from 03 p.m., to 06 p.m., inclusive. Heritage Buttevant heritage group, held their annual general meeting, recently, at which the annual reports, were presented, to the attendance. The group had an eventful past year, and the reports were comprehensive, in their detail. The group also has many plans for their coming year, which will include the celebration of Buttevant, as '700 - years of being a walled town'. The group is currently promoting, a Hallowe'en colouring drawing exhibition, the contents, of which, will be displayed, locally. There is also an exhibition, of th history of Buttevant Barracks, currently running at Mallow Public Library. Dorara dance school  The local Dorada Dance School, is celebrating,'30-Years in Existence', this year. This school has produced many dance students, and hundreds, of young people have passed, through the school's ranks. The school, of dance, is currently involved, in the production, of the annual pantomime, which will be staged, in the new year. The Dorada Dancers, will be putting on a production of the Michael Jackson hit, 'Thriller', in the playground, at the 'Market Green', adjacent to the Muintir na Tire Hall, Buttevant, on 'Hallowe'en Monday night', October 31.,2016, at 07 p.m. All details can be had on - 087 23241413-. Lottery The local lottery, promoted by Buttevant Soccer Club, continues to be held, weekly, on Thursday night, at a locally appointed venue. The jackpot is now worth, €10,800-, and will continue to rise, till won, by an entry, which matches, the four lucky numbers drawn, on draw night. Entry cards, are available, locally, or from the clubhouse, at €2-, per entry. Religious The annual blessing, of the local grave-yards, takes place in November 2016-as per annual custom. St Brigid's Cemetery graves, will be blessed, on Sunday, November 13., 2016, following the 11.30 a.m., Mass. Lisgriffin Church Yard graves, will be blessed, following the 10 a.m. Mass on November 13th., 2016. Templemary graves will be blessed on Sunday, November 2016, at03 p.m. Graves, in St Mary's Church Yard will be blessed on November 20.,2016, following the 11.30 a.m. Mass. Everybody who has a relative, friend or companion, interred, in these grave-yards, is asked to attend these ceremonies. Bingo The weekly bingo session continues, on Monday night, in the local GAA, hall, with numerous monetary prizes, to be won. Chiropody A chiropody clinic, will be held, in the Mercy Centre, Buttevant, on Wednesday, November 2., 2016, from 10.30 a.m. Sympathy Is extended, to those who have suffered, a bereavement, or personal loss, recently. Alert As winter approaches, and the evenings darken earlier, please be alert, to any suspicious persons, vehicles or happenings, locally. Champions Kiskeam are Premier Intermediate County Champions by way of a well-controlled display of football at its best in Pairc Ui Rinn on Sunday last. They defeated Fermoy on a 2-12 to 0-14 scoreline to be crowned champions in this grade for the first time and now enter the senior ranks for 2017.What an achievement - a victory ground out by a spirited performance where they worked the ball intelligently and economically from the back, making the most of almost all their chances. They play for one another - no big stars - no household names - just a panel of good footballers full of determination and will to win. The pride in the jersey gives them the necessary energy and there is no shortage on that front. An example for other clubs to follow. The gaels of Duhallow congratulate them and wish them every success on their Munster Trail. See sports pages in this newspaper for full match reports. Well done. Lotto The Kiskeam numbers were 2, 16, 21 and 24. Lucky Dip; €50, Conor Cronin. €20 each; Maragret Cronin, Knockeenacurrig, Seán Og and Dan Sheehan, Denis Moynihan, Rathmore. Sellers Prize; Patsy Breen. Craft fair The Sliabh Luachra Active Retirement Group hold a Craft Fair in Tureencahill Community Centre on this Sunday, October 30, from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. This is a support for the Autism Parent Group to benefit local children attending St Francis Special School in Beaufort. The crafts are bespoke and handmade by members of the group - your support will be appreciated. Cullen lotto The numbers were 10, 15, 19 and 31. Lucky Dip €50, Eddie O'Sullivan c/o Liam. €20 each; Darragh Dennehy, Lisnaboy, Evan O'Sullivan, Lyreaoune, Denis O'Connell, Lisaniska, Clodagh and Peter Stanley, c/o Geoff. Leanne, Cian and Kathy McCaul, Millstreet. Kiskeam cards First; Dan McLoughlin/Mike Herlihy. Ladies; Eileen Anketell/Sheila Fallon. Mixed Bina Cronin/John O'Riordan, Tess Herlihy/Tim Joe O'Connell; Breda Murphy/Dave Foley. Gents; Thomas O'Mahony/Marty Murphy. SPOTS; Marie Murphy/Betty Biggane, Hugh Murphy/Patsy Breen. Kilbrin Notes Change of Mass Times in St John the Baptist Church. Saturday evening Mass will remain at 6.15 p.m., Sunday morning Mass will change on this Sunday, November 30, from 10.30 a.m. to the new time of 10 a.m. Mass times during the week will be on Tuesday and Thursday at 9.30 a.m. Halloween Party This Saturday night October 29, dress up and come along to our halloween party. This event is always a very enjoyable night. The party commences at 9 p.m., prizes for best costume. Kiddies' Disco Kids' halloween disco will be held in the community centre on this Sunday evening, October 30, from 6 p.m. Admission €3 per child. Please support your local Foroige club. Months Mind Mass. Fr Michael Campbell months mine mass will be held in the very near future. Please check these notes next week for details. Bingo Bingo as usual on Monday night, October 31. Jackpot €1,800 in 50 calls. Extra prizes on the night. Cards Cards Wednesday night as usual, commencing at 9 p.m. Games for the christmas hamper will be played afterwards with €600 in prizes to be won. Rambling House Night The social club is organising a rambling house night within the next two weeks, musicians, dancers, singers, story tellers etc., will be most welcome. Light refreshments will be served on the night. Watch out for details in these notes next week. Vintage Run Kilbrin GAA would like to thank all who supported their very successful Vintage Car and Tractor Run which was held on Sunday last. To all who took part, our sponsors and all who helped on the day. A special thanks to Claire in the Social Club for her help on the day. A cheque will be presented to Kanturk Hospital at a date to be confirmed. Junior B Hurling Kilbrin Junior B hurlers take on Tullylease on this Saturday in Kilbrin in the league semi-final. Time to be confirmed. See Duhallow notes for details. Lotto Our lottery takes place on this Monday night for a jackpot of €1,600. Please support. County Board Draw Cork County Board Clubs Draw takes place the last Thursday of October. Please contact 087 2392442 to renew your membership and new members are also welcome. Membership is €100 for the year or €10 a month. Congratulations Congratulations to Kiskeam on a wonderful victory in the county premier intermediate football final last weekend. Sympathy Sympathy is extended to O'Regan Family Castlecor on the death of Kitty O'Regan. May Her Soul Rest In Peace. Mission The parish mission which was conducted by the Ceili group concluded on Sunday last and what a success it was. The lay preachers, sisters and priests all left a last legacy with Fr John Keane, in particular, making a connection that lifted the spirits of not just those who were unwell with themselves but of everyone that attended the ceremonies or had a little chat with him. Attendances were big throughout the week. Morning, noon and night they came to pray. The interest show was pleasing and hopefully many benefits were received. We thank them for their efforts, their understanding and above all how easy it was to communicate with them. We wish them every good wish on their journey. Lotto The numbers were 1, 23, 29 and 30. Lucky Dip, €50, Eilish O'Connor, Fairyhill, Kanturk. €20 each; Tom Courtney, New York, Eileen Leahy, Main Street, Mary Walsh, Knocknagoshel. Seller Prize; Charles Ankettell. Jamboree The Active Retirement group are off to the annual Aosta Jamboree at the Hazeltree in Mallow on Monday next, October 31. The afternoon commences with mass at 2 p.m. followed by a three course meal, dancing, music and song. The total cost is €17.Details to Philomena 029 76116 or Máire 76217. 45 Drive First Mich Buckley/Jackie Moynihan. Ladies; Betty Biggane/Marie Murphy. Gents; Tim Joe O'Connell/Donal Breen. Mixed; Theresa Cashman/Paddy O'Leary. Spots; Billy Hickey/Eileen Murphy, Maureen Vaughan/Helen O'Connor, Sean/Mark, Tess Herlihy/Maureen Aherne Thanksgiving It is that time of year again when we gather at the fall of the year to give thanks and praise for what we have received throughout the year. Next Sunday at 11: 30 mass we celebrate in thanksgiving for the reaping of the harvest and the abundance of riches received in the annual Harvest Mass. At this mass, the faithful are called to reflect on the year gone by. Prayers will be offered for parish members who have passed since last year's harvest mass, and also for people in need. This is a special community event held annually where members of the congregation will bring gifts of the earth to the altar, crops of the field orchard and garden, vegetables, wild fruits and honey from the bees, milk, cheese, butter, grapes for the wine and sheaf of wheat for the making of bread. The church choir will also resume on this day. New members are always welcome. Disco Banteer National School parents' association is holding a Halloween disco on this Friday, October 28, in Banteer Community Hall from 7 to 9 p.m., cost per child €5, with all money raised going towards the funding of school equipment. Goody bags, games, spot prizes and good fun on the night. Open day thanks The board of management, principal and staff of Banteer National School would like to sincerely thank all of the past/present staff, pupils and their families and also the wider community who turned up to make the school's 40th Anniversary open day a resounding success. It was a truly wonderful occasion. Thanks to those who helped in any way, in particular, the parents and parents' association who provided delicious home baking and refreshments. Commemorative magnets are available from the school office 029 56262, Vinny's newsagents Kanturk, and Murphy's Gala Dromcummer. Magnets postcard size €4 Business card size €2 the ideal Christmas stocking filler. GAA club agm Banteer and Lyre Juvenile GAA Club will hold its AGM on Sunday November the sixth in Lyre Community Hall from 7.30. Please come along, particularly if you are a parent of a player. Crime meeting Garda Crime prevention community meeting thanks to all who attended at the Glen Theatre Mon last and thanks to the local Gardaí Dan Murphy, Katryn Canty and Diarmuid Cronin Muintir Na Tire. Attendees were updated re Text alert, local crime issues and prevention, and the new property register for homes/farms. Text alert forms are available from Community Council. Coffee morning A huge thank you to everyone who helped out and supported the coffee morning in Lyre Hall recently. It was a great success with €1,150 being raised in aid of Irish Cancer Society for Breast Cancer Research and Care Services. €5,900 cheque Banteer Community Childcare welcomes the award of a cheque for €5,900 from the SSE Airtricity Community Fund towards a water harvesting system at the centre and also a grant of €1,000 from the Tusla scheme. The SSE Airtricity Community Fund supports communities through an annual wind farm community fund, which is distributed to local projects with a focus on energy efficiency and sustainability with applications invited for the scheme on the website each year. This year's Coomacheo and Curragh Community fund of €125,000 was distributed to 24 groups at the Coiste Halla, Ballyvourney. Fun colour run/walk Thanks to who supported in Banteer Sportsfield/Park on Sunday last October 23 - this fundraiser was by Muireann Healy who will be travelling with the Hope Foundation to Calcutta, India, next March 2017. Banteer Sports field/Park Draw Winners: €400 Kevin Savage, €200 Mary Finn, €100 each to Patricia Buckley, Pat Roche, Robert Lyons, John O'Donoghue. Next draw is December. Banteer Lyre GAA notes The GAA is pleased to confirm plans for the roll out of a new National Membership Card Programme in the coming months. The programme is a thank you to our members and will be called 'grma' - go raibh maith agat. It will offer tangible rewards to GAA members. Members who participate in the grma programme will receive a Membership Card enabling them to avail of benefits including priority access to tickets for games, discounts and other promotions. They will also be able to accumulate points for participating in GAA activities and redeem these points for rewards for either themselves or their clubs. More details to follow. Nomination Forms for Cork County Board Officerships and Motions are now with the club. The completed Forms are to be signed by the club Rúnaí and returned not later than 8 p.m. on Monday, November 7. This time of the year the main club concentration is organising the Cork GAA draw which costs €100 to join per year with cars, holidays and cash prizes with the first draw taking place at the end of Oct. The club will also promoting the Croke Park Clubs draw at €10 per ticket with holidays and cash prizes. The club AGM will take place over the next couple of months. Operating and running the club takes a huge amount of voluntary effort and work and the help and input of all members, volunteers, coaches, players, management teams and officers is appreciated. Cancer connect Cancer Connect is a free, flexible and confidential transport service to Cork hospitals from Duhallow for people receiving cancer treatments (radiotherapy, chemotherapy etc.). The service runs from Rockchapel 11.45 a.m. to Newmarket 12.05 p.m. to Kanturk 12.15 p.m. to Banteer 12.25 p.m. to Nadd 12.40 p.m. to CUH 1.15 p.m., Mercy 1.30 p.m. every day (Monday to Friday) at times to suit passengers. It is provided totally as a voluntary service by a team of volunteer drivers. This service is provided each day (Monday to Friday) to the Cork Hospitals. Similar to the Radiotherapy Service it is supported by Voluntary Drivers who drive their own cars. The Chemotherapy Service is provided on a 'one to one' basis as the appointments generally tend to take longer and the times of appointment can vary. For details of any of the services or on becoming a Voluntary Driver one may contact Cancer Connect at West Cork Rural Transport Office Tel: 027 52727 Mob: 087 1224404.As this is a voluntary service a minimum of one weeks' notice is requested when booking. Drivers-a reminder that Cancer Connect is always looking for Volunteer Drivers for both Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy drives to Cork. The commitment would be to drive for a day in the month. If you are interested, please contact Helen in the office at 027 52727. Glen Theatre This Saturday the 29th Sunday the 30th and Monday the 1st of Novevember, Banteer Drama group 'The Chastitute' by John B Keane. Vintage Vehicle Society Ballinagree Vintage is holding a Fancy Dress Vehicle Run, cars, tractors, bikes. on Sunday next, October 30. Registration in Ballinagree Village 10.30 to 11, 30 leaving Ballinagree at 12. sharp. Park your trailer challenge O'Keeffes Bog 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. Quick Pit Stop Moll Carthys Bridge 2.30 to 3 p.m. arriving back Laine Bar Ballinagree for soup and sandwiches 4.30 p.m. Music with Peter Lane Blackwater Sound at 5.30, a great family evening for further information text 085 7847879. Ploughing Cups coming to Ballinagree On next Friday night JJ and Jeremiah Delaney and Matthew Coakley will arrive in the Village to the Laine Bar with their all-Ireland Cups what an achievement for our community, JJ and Jeremiah are the only father and son to ever win all-Irelands in Horse Ploughing in Cork, they can expect some crowd to welcome and congratulate them. Well done - you have made our community proud. Mayor's Ball Don't forget to mark the calendar Friday night, November 25, the Mayor's Ball in the Laine Bar. The Mayor John O'Sullivan will on hand to welcome you all, you are free to come in fancy dress if you wish, you choose, you will be very welcome, its always a great night mighty craic. Peter Lane is playing so you can expect some lively music. Unveiling Plaque Last Sunday a remembrance Plaque was unveiled at Ardinne Cross in memory of a Famine mass grave, and also infants grave who were stillborn, John O'Sullivan mayor of Ballinagree unveiled the very beautiful stone, and Fr Joe O'Mahony blassed the site with some nice readings. Guest Speaker was Caroline Murphy from Rosscarbery, she gave a very moving speech on stillborn births, a hymn was sung by Peggy Lynch, This was the project of the last mayor of Ballinagree Michael Lehane, there was a lot of organising in developing this site and its taken till Sunday last to achieve this end. A very fitting tribute to the people of our parish who died during the Famine, and to the little stillborn babies. Well done, Mick, and also Ballinagree Vintage. Aghinagh GAA lotto No jackpot winner numbers drawn 5, 8 and 30. Next week's jackpot €3,400 - nice money. €50 Norma O'Donnell; €20 Judy Kenneally; €20 Noreen Spillane; €20 Gus Murphy, Carrigadrohid; €20 Martin Kelleher, Anvil Bar. Next week's draw Tigh Uí Laoire, Ballinagree. School Cards Results First Jackie Spillane and Connie Sheehan. Second Margaret Lehane and Nuala Creedon and under the line Con Healy and Tim O'Mahony. The game will continue every Monday night starting at 8.45. Music in Laine Bar next Sat night 29th is with Séamus Healy Thrashing Mill Boys CEOL AN GHEIMHRIDH Don chéad uair riamh, beidh Ceol an Gheimhridh ar siúl i gCill na Martra ar an Domhnach, 13ú Samhain ag tosnú ag 10rn. Tá baill de CCE Craobh Lachtaín Naofa ag ullmhú chuige le tamall. Ar an lá, beidh comórtaisí cheoil, amhránaíochta, aithriseoireachta, scéalaiochta, rince céili agus seite. Tá dhá aois grúpa, fé 13 agus idir 13 agus 17 agus caithfidh iomathóirí bheith ina baill de Comhaltas. Féach ar leathanach Facebook Craobh Lachtaín Naofa chun tuilleadh eolas a fháil. FARM WALK Once again, all roads led to the farm of Ger Dineen, Cnoc Rua on Monday last, October 24, at 11 a.m. for a Teagasc organised Farm Walk. Speakers spoke about autumn closing up for early Spring grass. The favourable weather encouraged many farmers to attend. NUACHT LOTTO Níor aimsigh uimhreacha 10 ná 17 ná 20 ná 32 aon buaiteoir don phota óir le €7,600 ann ar an Luan 10ú Deireadh Fomhair in Uí Chríodáin. €100: Seán O;Muineacháin, Páirc an Oileáin. €40: Eibhlín Uí Chríodáin, Droichid na Toinne. €50: Caitlín Uí Ríordáin, Maigh Chromtha. €20: Muintear Uí Chuana, Inse Líonáin.€20: Juliette de Brún, Seán Baile Sheáin. €20: Mark O'hUidhir, Baile Mhic Íre. SYMPATHY The death took place on Wednesday, October 12, of Diarmuid Murray, Sullane Haven, Macroom, after a short illness. Born in Gort an Éadan ninety four years ago, the late Diarmuid retired to Sullane Haven fourteen years ago, where he enjoyed all the facilities there. He was predeceased by his siblings, Nora, John, Pat, Tom, and Josie. Interment took place in Reilig Lachtaín Naofa following Concelebrated Requiem Mass in Séipéal Réidh na nDoirí. The main Concelebrant, an tAthair de Brún was assisted by Canon Harrington and Fr O'Mahony. Sympathy is extended to his surviving sister Kathleen, brother in law Paddy, nieces and nephews, especially nephews Martin and Jerry O'Keeffe, who travelled from America to attend the obsequies. Solas na soilse agus radharc na bh Flaitheas dó. SCORAÍOCHT Ná dearmad an chéad Scoraíocht san Ionad Lae, Baile Mhúirne ar an Déardaoin, 27ú Deireadh Fómhair ag 2: 30in. Fáilte is fiche roimh cách. ROAD WORKS Residents of Ceann Droma and Rathúnach, as well as motorists passing through the L7431 from Crossaire Molly to Poll na Bró are delighted with the recently completed roadworks. With hedges trimmed, road edges repaired and complete resurfacing, it is a complete transformation. All drivers are grateful to the local engineer and council staff, who carried out the repairs, without too much inconvenience. FÉ 16 Míle comhghairdeas don Fhoireann Fé 16 a bhuaigh Craobh Comórtas an Réigiún Thoir in Áthan Chóiste le déanaí. SINGING SESSION The fortnightly Singing Sessions continue at the Auld Triangle, Macroom, on alternate Sunday nights. The next session is on this Sunday, October 30, around 9 p.m. Fáilte is fiche roimh cách. CÓR CHILL NA MARTRA Tugadh cuireadh do Cór Chill na Martra, maraon le ceithre cór eile páirt a ghlacadh san Oireachtas I gCill Áirne ar an Satharn, 5u Samhain san iarnóin. Tá said gníomhach faoi láthair ag chur snas ar na h-amhráin don lá mór. Go dtéigh said slán. SAVE THE DATE Keep Sunday, December 4, free for the annual Bazaar na Nollag in the Ionad Pobail. SEOMRA NA DTEAGLACH AG AN OIREACHTAS Beidh Seomra na dTeaghlach ar oscailt san INEC, Cill Áirne ar an Déardaoin agus Aoine, 3ú agus 4ú Samhain ó 10rn le gníomhachtaí agus cluichí do pháistí. Ós rud é go bhfuil páistí ar saoire an tseachtain sin, is áis an deas é do daltaí scoile. NUACHT LOTTO Bhí €7,800 san phota óir ar an Luan seo chaite in O'Murchú's, nuair a roghnaiodh uimhreacha 7, 8, 26 agus 30, ach ní raibh said ag éinne. €100: Donncha O'Tuama, Réidh na nDoirí. €40: Nora Uí Thuama, Réidh na nDoirí. €50: Nóirín Uí Shuibhne, c/o An Chrois. €20: Lúc O'Cathasaigh, Réidh na nDoirí. €20: Dónal Óg O'Cróinín, Corcaigh. €20: Elaine Uí Chríodáin, Réidh na nDoirí. Beidh €8,000 sa phota óir ar an Mháirt seo chugainn. 45 DRIVE The weekly 45 Drive was well attended on Sunday night last. The following is a list of the lucky winners: First Prize went to: One, Martin Flynn, Feohanagh, and Mary Noonan, Freemount. Two, Jim Murphy, and Neilie O'Connor, Freemount. The best ladies' team was: Joan Dillane and Kathleen O'Connor, Milford. Gents Prize was won by: one Denis Barrett, Banteer, and Charlie O'Connor, Killarney. two John Murrihy, Tralee, and Tim Broderick, Freemount. Mixed prize was won by Nora Brosnan, Meelin, and Tim Ahern, Freemount. The Table Prize was won by Con O'Neill, Newmarket, and Timmie Curtin, Freemount. Raffle Prizes were won by: one Catherine O'Sullivan, Kilbrin, two Con Foley, Freemount. Three Joan Dillane, Milford. Four Theresa Moynihan, Kanturk. five Mary Noonan, Freemount. The 45 drive will commence on this Sunday night, October 30, at 8 p.m. See you all on Sunday and bring a friend. You can be on the road home at 10 p.m. Everybody welcome. Please note the earlier starting time of 8 p.m. For the winter. AROUND THE FIRESIDE The next programme of Around the Fireside will be broadcast on C103 Local Radio on Monday night next October 24 at 9.50 p.m. We have the group from Kilbehenny and roundabout back again. This will be a very entertaining programme Don't miss it. FREEMOUNT CHURCH Mass on Sunday morning, October 23. at 10.30 a.m. Holy Hour on Monday night at 7 p.m. followed by Mass at 8 p.m. Mass on Tuesday morning at 9.30 a.m. Mass and all devotions at St Michael's Church in Freemount are now available on the internet. The web address is myipstream.com/freemount.html. This will be especially welcome for all people who are housebound or away from home. Please pass the word onto your friends. St Michael's room is now available to parents who would like to bring young children to Sunday Mass. CEMETERY PRAYERS November Prayers for the dead will be offered in the Cemeteries of the parish as follows: Deliga, Sunday, November 6. Tullylease, Sunday, November 13. Ballinakill, November 20. Knawhill November 27. All prayers will commence at midday. THURSDAY CLUB The next get-together of the Thursday Club will be on this Thursday, October 27. At 2 p.m. in Cois Abhann. Everybody welcome.We have no boundaries, and we extend a special invitation to new members to come along. No birth cert needed. November Mass in Cois Abhann on Thursday, November 3,. At 2 p.m. Everybody welcome. Thursday Club coming events include: Christmas dinner and party is on Saturday, December 3, and Christmas shopping and outing is on Tuesday, December 6. Bus leaving the Community Centre at 11.30 a.m. and returning at 8 p.m. Please mark these dates in your diary. Age Action are again promoting the big knit this year. Volunteers are needed to knit hats/caps for innocent mineral bottles. Age Action will receive 30c from the company for every hat received, to go towards providing much needed funds for the elderly. Our local Thursday Club will supply patterns and full details to anybody wishing to participate in this very worthy cause. The closing date for receiving completed hats is Thursday, December 1. Get knitting folks. COMHALTAS All classes continue each Wednesday night (all instruments) except Banjo classes which is held on Friday night. The Next Generation' Song Collection: A new collection of traditional songs for young singers has recently been published by Elle Marie O'Dwyer entitled 'The Next Generation - Traditional Songs for Young Singers'. Supported by Comhaltas and the Arts Council, the book and CD consist of 16 slow and lively traditional songs suitable for young traditional song enthusiasts. While the collection is not solely aimed at competitors, all songs are suitable for Fleadh Cheoil competitions. There continues to be a slight misunderstanding among some young singers as to what constitutes an appropriate 'Fleadh song'. It is hoped that the songbook will lead competitors on the right path of song selection. Overall, the aim of the publication is to encourage our young people to explore and learn traditional songs and carry on the tradition into 'The Next Generation'. The book is the perfect resource and a great source of songs for teachers and parents also. For more information or to purchase the collection, email ellemaria@hotmail.com or phone/text Elle Marie at 085 7849716. CHILDREN'S SET DANCING CLASSES Children's dancing classes continue each Monday evening at 3 p.m. in the Heritage Centre. All welcome, contact Marie Sheehan at 083 0045432. TEXT ALERT NETWORK SET UP Freemount Text Alert Group is live. Thank you to all who have subscribed. The group is growing daily with people joining up to the scheme to receive updates to help assist Gardaí in preventing crime, where Gardaí can canvass hundreds of subscribers in an instant should they require information or need to deliver prompt information. The way it works: Members of the public reports an incident to the Gardaí, the Gardaí assesses the message and decides which Text Alert Groups this is relevant to. Then with the help of a Group Text Provider within minutes this message reaches those community groups within the relevant geographical spread. All such texts will clearly state BeAlert or BeAlertSMS on handsets, and will only be sent between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m., so as not to alarm people. If you wish to join the group consent forms are available at the back of the church, or by emailing freemountca@gmail.com. USED POSTAGE STAMPS If you have used stamps you can hand them into the Heritage Centre any morning. FREEMOUNT HISTORY WEBSITE If you would like to keep up with the progress of our History website, please go to freemountvillage.com. You might see your own photo. We would also like to hear from you. board membership Its that time of the year again to renew your membership of the Cork County Board GAA. Draw. Ticket is €100 and €45 remains in our club This is our main fundraiser for the year so we are appealing once more for your support the usual fantastic prizes are on offer To join please contact any member of the club. gaa LOTTO There was no winner of last week's lotto jackpot. The numbers drawn were: 3, 13, 15 and 16. Lucky-dip winners were as follows: Margaret Guiney, Knockanglass, Freemount; Liam Lenihan, c/o Clare O'Connor, Ballybahalow, Freemount; Tom Crowley, Cools, Freemount; O'Brian, Ballinla. Freemount; Liam O'Flynn, Lismire. This week's jackpot is €9,300. Make sure you buy your tickets early and often and you will be in with a chance to cover your Christmas shopping. MACRA Freemount Macra members travelled to Krakow in Poland for the annual prize winners trip last weekend. A great weekend was had by all. The annual Macra rally will take place this weekend in the Radison Blue Hotel in Limerick. Safe travelling to all those attending. Club meeting will be held this Thursday, November 27, in the heritage centre in Freemount. Christmas shoeboxes will be collected on the night. New members always welcome. notes All items for these notes should be with the correspondent each Monday evening before 8 p.m. Email osullivanpj38@gmail.com. SPIN and WIN RESULTS Maggie O'Donovan, Newmarket €35. Nora O'Sullivan, Meelin €30 Lena Duggan, Meelin €35 Confined Members Weekly lotto No 14 Seán Linehan, Meelin €100 INTERMEDIATE FINAL The Rockchapel Intermediate football team were defeated by Bandon in the county final played in Pairc Ui Rinn on Sunday, October 16. This was a most disappointing result as Rockchapel played some excellent football especially in the first half but credit to Bandon for getting themselves back into the game and kicking some important scores in the final quarter. Well done to the Rockchapel trainer, management team and players for their hard work and dedication throughout the year and hopefully 2017 will be the year for the club. JUNIOR B HURLING LEAGUE SEMI FINAL Meelin Jun B hurlers were defeated by Newmarket in the league semi-final played in Newmarket on Sunday, October 23, on a scoreline of 1-16 to 14 pts. This was a hard fought game with Newmarket getting the all important goal early in the second half. Meelin pushed Newmarket all the way to the final minutes of the game but Newmarket held out with some excellent defending. Well done to both teams. CORK GAA CLUBS DRAW The Sept/Oct Cork GAA clubs draw will take place this Friday night. There are some fantastic prizes on offer and Tickets cost €100 for 12 Draws. If you would like to join this draw please contact any club member immediately. VARIETY CONCERT A fundraising Variety Concert will take place in Dromtariffe Parish Hall on Friday night next, October 28, starting at 7.30 p.m. Fabulous line-up of acts, including members of the Shandrum Ceili Band (all-Ireland winners 2015 and 2016). This concert is being organised by Marie O'Neill, Killetra, in aid of Hope Foundation's work with street children in Kolkata, India. Tickets €10 available from Angland's Service Station, Dromagh, or available at the door on the night. Your support would be greatly appreciated. DANCING CLASSES Dancing classes for fun continue in Meelin hall every Tuesday night from 8.30-9.30. Come along and join in the great fun while also getting in a little exercise. Please find notes for publication. Thank you Development GROUP If you would like to have a night out with friends and neighbours have a chat, a bite to eat, a glass of wine, sit back and enjoy the session come along to Clondrohid Community Hall on Saturday night, November 5. at 8 p.m. All funds are for the maintenance and upkeep of village and surrounds. There will be a raffle with lots of prizes. If you would like to host a table or share hosting a table, whatever suits, please contact Maria 085 1069356 at Healy's Shop, or Breda at 086 8831206.As always thank you for your support, a good night guaranteed. Ware, tablecloths, cutlery all available if required. On the night a donation will be made by the group towards the Haiti disaster. The last of the hedge cutting was completed last week, thanks to Adrian for doing a good job. LOTTO Results for October 19 Next Week's jackpot €2,000 €70 - Mary Gallagher, Farnanes €20 - Caroline Hughes, c/o Eurofoil €20 - Kay Healy, c/o the Greyhound Bar €20 - Katherine O'Leary, The Glebe €20 - Liam and Sheila O'Riordan, Gortnapeasta MASS WITH YOUTH As part of a new initative in Macroom, there will be a regular Mass with youth involvement each month. The first of these masses starts on Sunday, November 6, at 10.30 a.m. A special welcome is extended to young people and their families. Spread the word. GORTA SELF HELP AFRICA This annual collection was taken up outside the churches in Clondrohid and Carriganima last weekend. The sum realised in Clondrohid was €3,309. Thanks to everyone who contributed, and to those who collected. FEAST OF ALL SAINTS Please note there will be no 8.30 a.m. Mass in Clondrohid on the Holy Day November 1. PRAYERS AT CLONDROHID GRAVEYARD The prayers for the Holy Souls will take place at Clondrohid graveyard on Sunday, November 6, at midday Please come along. GAA Under14s were in action a few weeks ago, in the Rebel Óg East B league final versus Aghabullogue, and despite the inclement weather conditions, gave a staunch performance, a never gave up attitude, and after extra time ended all square. The replay was played last Sunday in Rusheen under blue skies, but unfortunately for Clondrohid, Aghabullogue were on tip top form and came away worthy winners. Well done to all the boys in blue, who have outperformed themselves all this season. Thanks to all the mentors for their time given so freely. CORK COUNTY BOARD DRAW Its that time of the year again to renew your membership of the Cork County Board GAA Draw. Tickets are €100 and €45 remains in our club. This is one of our main fundraisers for the year so we are appealing once more for your support with the usual brilliant prizes up for grabs. To join please contact Frank Barry at 087 9838087 or any club member. KILCORNEY SOCIAL CENTRE As the winter approaches the Tuesday Night card game will commence in the Kilcorney Social Centre on Tuesday night, November 1, at 8.30 p.m. Everybody welcome. LOTTO The lotto was held on Monday, October 17, at the Idle Hour. There was no winner of the jackpot of €2,550. Numbers drawn were 24, 26, 42. €50 lucky-dip winner: Ellen O'Regan Promoter David Copps, €30 lucky-dip winner Pat McMahon Promoter the Idle Hour, €20 lucky-dip winners were: Annette Sexton Promoter Helen O'Sullivan, Jamsie Dundon Promoter Eamonn Dundon, Caroline and Sarah Clancy Promoter Costcutter Ballyhea. You can play the lottery online @locallotto.ie or visit the Ballyhea GAA website where you can access the same web address. Thank you for your continued support. IRISH CATHOLIC NEWSPAPER The Irish Catholic newspaper is on sale in the church porch. TAX REBATE The 2015 tax year has closed. This means that the parish can avail of a tax rebate on all contributions of €250 and more. The certificates necessary to make the reclaim for 2015 are now available and will be circulated in the coming days. You are kindly asked to sign and return them to the Parish Priest as soon as possible. CHURCH GATE COLLECTION No Church Gate Collection taken up at St Mary's Church, Ballyhea, is endorsed by the parish. All such collections are made on foot of a permit, issued by the Chief Superintendent of the Garda Síochána, at Fermoy. Permits require those taking up Church Gate Collections to do so on the public highway, and in a manner which does not obstruct or importune others using the highway. FIGHT FOR FIONN Fight for Fionn is a charity set up to raise funds for Fionn Barry, a two-year-old boy from Ballyhea who has a seriously debilitating and life limiting illness and needs 24-hour care. To get more information please go to fionnbarry.com website or if you wish to make a donation the link is: gofundme.com/Fight ForFionn HALLOWEEN COACHING CAMP The club will be holding a hurling/camogie camp during the Halloween mid-term break on November 2 and 3. Further details next week. GAA club NOTES Online Shop: The club's online shop is proving to be very popular. All the latest club gear can be purchased from the O'Neill's website. With Christmas around the corner, check it out at oneills.com/shop-by--gaa.html Instagram: The club can now be followed on Instagram. To see the latest club pictures go to ballyheagaaclub Men On The Move: Men on the Move takes place in the hall every Tuesday and Thursday from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. All new members are welcome for an hour of exercise and fun. Newsletter:The club's online newsletter is now available for this month. Anyone wishing to receive a copy should email pro.ballyhea.cork@gaa.ie. Camogie: The camogie club is once again collecting Used Clothes, Old Curtains, Bedlinen, Footwear, Bags and Books. Contact any member of the committee. County Clubs Draw: The County Clubs draw recommences at the end of October. This is a huge fundraiser for the club. Usual collectors will be contacting draw members in the coming weeks. Any new members of the draw can join by contacting any committee member. Family Fun Day: Ballyhea GAA Club held its annual fun day recently. It turned out to be another huge success. There were mixed games between boys and girls from under-13 to U.6 in hurling. And a five a side for young and old; there was a cake and confectionery, book/cd/DVD games sale, Mossie's BBC, tug of war, Juvenile Puc Fada, football and hurling target shooting, milk the cow, three legged race and sack races. There was also a raffle for a trailer load of timber which was won by Dairmuid O'Riordan and bags of coal which were won by Brendan Barrett. There was a competition to guess how many balloons in the car which was won by Breda Crowley. Thanks to everyone that organised, donated, took part and attended or helped in any way. All support is very much appreciated. COMMUNITY ALERT Ballyhea Community Alert has successfully set up a Text Alert Network to immediately alert our community when an incident occurs. Prompt information to and from Gardaí deters criminal activity. If you are interested in becoming a member of our Text Alert Network please phone any of the following people for information and sign up details - Phil Ryan 087 2937465, Pat Daly 086 1220114, James Horgan 087 2572271, Willie Meaney 087 1936842, Con Walsh 086 8570355. The fee for this service is €10 annually. 45 DRIVE The 45 Drive will continue at the Corbett Court every Wednesday night at 9.15 p.m. so all welcome. SPEEDING Speeding is still continuing to be an issue through the parish so please be aware of the speed limit of 60km. Bweeng Trail Blazers Bweeng Trail Blazers, our couch to 5k group are now entering the final stretch of their programme and will have a graduation run on Sunday, November 6, at 2 p.m. We hope that family members will come along on the day to the community centre to show support for graduates. There will be refreshments served afterwards in the community centre. Training continues every Monday and Wednesday night at 7 p.m. at the community centre, new members always welcome. Well done to Celia O'Connell and Carmel Bowles, last week's club draw winners. Everyone at the club would like to wish Brian Ahern and Deborah Egan the very best of luck on Sunday as they take part in the Dublin City Marathon. There is a big number of supports also travelling up to the event. Bweeng Tractor Run Bweeng Tractor Run takes place on Sunday, October 30. Registration opens at midday and the start time is 1 p.m. Refreshments served afterwards. All enquiries to Tim at 086 2656507. Bweeng Celtic Schoolboys Soccer Club New girls and boys welcome to Bweeng Celtic Schoolboys. Training indoors on Saturday mornings to Kilshannig GAA Complex. Under-eights and under-nines (born 07 or 08 or 09) training 11-midday and under-10s and under-11s (born 06 or 05) training midday to 1 p.m. Two euro per session. Training as normal for the Bank Holiday weekend. All welcome to come along and give it a go. Contact Eithne at bweengcelticschoolboys@gmail.com with any questions. Kilshannig Ladies' Football Club Well done to our under-16s who beat Kildorrery Ladies in the North Cork Final this week. Kildorrery started strong with early scores, but Kilshannig picked up the pace and comprehensively won the title. Well done to the trainers John, Pascal, Tadgh and Alan, the mentors Eilis and Neta, and of course, the marvellous squad. These girls have been the heartbeat of the club since they started out as youngsters. As well as playing in their own grade, they support the older girls by togging out for minor, under-21 and junior also. The club would not have any of the three oldest grades without these under-16s, and they are so deserving of this silverware. Well done, girls. Sponsored Walk On Sunday, November 6, the players of Kilshannig Ladies are doing a Sponsored Walk in Bweeng Community Field. The walk will begin at midday, and there will be a complementary disco and refreshments afterwards. Players please wear club colours for a big club photo. As a special incentive, all returned sponsor cards will be entered into a draw, where prizes include vouchers for Perry Street Market Café and Lifestyle Sports among others. Please support the girls in their efforts to get sponsorship. All community welcome to join us for the walk. Contact Neta at 086 0833574 with any queries. Kilshannig GAA Latest Kilshannig GAA Newsletter available from complex and local outlets. Results Our under-14s sadly lost their North Cork Final to Mourneabbey this week. This was a tough loss, as the game had originally been fixed for the previous week, but it had to be called off at half time due to weather, with Kilshannig up by four points. Hard luck girls. Sr Miriam O'Connell, RIP It was with great sadness we heard of the passing of Sr Miriam O'Connell last week. Sr Miriam, a native of Lackendarra, Glantane, was the daughter of the late Hannah and Richard O'Connell and cherished sister of Margaret (Healy), Sheila (Rigney), Mary (O'Regan), brothers Patsy, Richard and the late William (Billy), Michael and Jerry. Sr Miriam had a long established career as a nurse and did trojan work helping the infirm, housebound and elderly around Mallow. She later set up the Anchor Treatment Centre which caters for people right across North Cork with alcohol, drug and gambling addictions. Her legacy will last long in the memory of all that knew Sr Miriam during her lifetime. As a parish, we send our deepest condolences to Sr. Miriam's family and friends. Ar dheis De go raibh a h-anam. Community Council News The winner of the Haven Bar's lotto bonus draw on Wednesday, October 19, was Will Thornhill with the bonus number 35 and the winner of the Griffin's bar draw on Saturday, October 22, was Denis Canavan Jnr with the bonus number 35. Thanks to everyone supports these draws and to those who organise them. Cork Penny Dinners Cork Penny Dinners is a volunteer run charity feeding 2000 men, women and children each week. Their wish list for supplies includes: cereals, gravy granules, sugar, tea, coffee, tins of peas and beans, fresh fruit and vegetables especially potatoes, cheese, cakes/biscuits, wash-up liquid, paper towels, cling film, tin foil, men's and children's socks and warm clothing. These items can be dropped off at their building each day or you can give Marion Regan 085 2181887 a ring who will try to arrange someone to deliver them on your behalf. GAA lotto The draw for the local GAA lotto took place in Griffin's Bar on Tuesday, October 18. The numbers drawn were 8, 14 and 19 and there was one jackpot winner. The lucky winner of €1,400 was Kevin Cotter, CTR and he bought his ticket from John Angland. The lucky-dip winners were €50 Doireann Mulcahy, CTR (J Angland), €30 Patrick Doyle (The Haven) and €20 Maria P Murphy, CTR (J Angland). Next week's draw will be held in the Haven Bar with a jackpot of €1,000. Tickets are only €2 and are available from club members and local bars and shops. GAA News County Board Draw: The club has a number of tickets available for the County Board Clubs draw that is being promoted at the moment. The cost of a full ticket is €100 but a syndicate of more than one person is very welcome also. This draw finances the county development squads, of which we have a number of players involved with, but also, a significant portion (45%) of the €100 stays with Killavullen GAA club, to finance capital and on-going club expenditure. Contact any GAA club member for further details, or check out the very informative website corkgaadraw.ie. Juvenile table quiz There was a fantastic turn out for the annual juvenile fundraising table quiz on Friday last in the Haven Bar. Thanks to everyone who took part, donated prizes and bought tickets. Thanks also to Pakie and Carol for their help in organising the event. Used Clothes Collection The Juvenile club will be holding their annual used clothing collection on Saturday, November 12. So now is the time to clear out your wardrobes and attic and anything you and your family don't need, bring all them all to the GAA grounds and help the Juveniles at the same time. Match Reports Killavullen and Knocknagree contested the Minor B Football League final on Sunday, October 23, in Mourneabbey. In a brilliant game of end to end football Killavullen were victorious on a final score of Killavullen 4-6 Knocknagree 3-5. Killavullen's start to this game was the stuff of nightmares. Two goals conceded with in the first three minutes both coming from Killavullen possession in the middle of the field, being turned over in the tackle, not tracking the runners and leaving huge space down the middle of the field which Knocknagree expertly punished. Knocknagree 2-0 Killavullen 0-0 after three minutes. But credit to the Killavullen lads they re-grouped and slowly built their way into the game. Jack Creedon had our first point on the score board in the fifth minute and Jack O'Connor added a free in the 12th. Ian Roche followed up a loose ball that the Knocknagree goalkeeper looked to have under control only to dispossess the keeper and score a goal to leave a point between the teams after 15 minutes. Two minutes later Mike Fresh blasted the ball to the back of the net to complete a magnificent turn around to put Killavullen two points in front, 2-2 to 2-0. However, two minutes of madness where a soft free was conceded and scored along with a mix up from a side-line ball between Eoghan Buckley and Cian Lankford allowed Denis O'Connor to score Knocknagree's third goal to swing the balance of the game back in our opponents favour. Knocknagree 3-1 Killavullen 2-2 after 22minutes. For the second time in the game Killavullen dug deep and points from James Fitzpatrick and Mike Fresh had the teams' level at the interval Knocknagree 3-1 Killavullen 2-4. Neither team gave an inch in the second half, and it took till the 12th minute before the first score arrived, a Knocknagree free which Jack O'Connor cancelled out in the 14th. The game was being played at frantic pace with some big hits which made for a tight game. The majority of the second half was played from end to end but limited scoring opportunities arose as some great defending from both sides, along with poor shot selection kept the score low. The game turned in Killavullen's favour when Mike Fresh grabbed his second goal of the game after 23 minutes. Knocknagree added a free in the 25th, but a wonderful counter attack in the 29th minute in which the Knocknagree player was dispossessed on the Killavullen 45 meter line and Pádraig Looney was set free to run 60 yards and finish to the net to effectively seal the game. Killavullen defended in numbers for the final few minutes but Knocknagree couldn't break down the Killavullen defence. Full time Killavullen 4-6 Killavullen 3-5. It capped a wonderful two weeks for the Killavullen Minor players, management and supporters after winning the Minor B Hurling league a fortnight ago. It's a fantastic achievement to win both the B Hurling and Football leagues in the same year with the same group of players. Team and scorers: Cian Lankford, Seán Collins, Gearoid Sheahan, Seán Browne, Ian Roche (1-0), Patrick Angland, Eddie Cotter, Séamus Fox, Eoghan Buckley, Mike Fresh (2-1), Paul O'Sullivan, Jack Creedon (0-1), Jack O'Connor (0-3, 2f), James Fitzpatrick (0-1) and Pádraig Looney (1-0). Subs: Jack O'Regan for Mike Fresh and Josh Sheahan for Pádraig Looney. Festival raises €13,250 for charity Coachford autumn festival will donate over €13,000 to charity as a result of the great support and kindness of so many people. The festival organisers, Broomhill Vintage Club will present cheques to Marymount Hospice (€6,000), friends of Macroom Community Hospital (€1,500), Sullane Haven Macroom (€1,000), Pieta House (€1,000), Coachford Christmas lights (€1,000), Coachford National School parents' association (€750), Aghabullogue National School parents' association (€750), Rylane National School parents' association (€750) and Coachford Tidy Towns (€500). Club Chairman Jerh O'Sullivan said: 'We are absolutely delighted to be in a position to donate this amount of money to all these very deserving charities and community groups. We had a very wet year and although it was a huge struggle to run the events over the four days, the support we had from all our sponsors and the supporters was amazing and humbling. 'Huge numbers of people came on a very wet Sunday and while they may not have stayed long they still came along and supported us and that was very much appreciated. 'The Queen contestants were amazing and made that event a tremendous night and a very profitable one. Our Female tractor builders were a great addition to the festival and added a new and exciting element to the whole community weekend. 'All the support and help that we have received from everyone has enabled us to donate the biggest amount we have ever done in our seven-year history and we are already looking forward to the 2017 Festival. 'We hope to present the cheques from this year's festival to the charities in O'Riordan's Bar on Saturday, November 5. You are all invited to come along and celebrate with us.' Champions Congratulations to Aghabullogue under-14 footballers who captured the East Region League today defeating Clondrohid in the final by 15 points to 3. The boys have now won the double as they captured the championship title a few weeks ago. A Night of Drama Four great short plays will make up Coachford Player's 2016 'Night of Drama' in the Lee Valley Golf and Country Club on Thursday the third, Friday and Saturday, November 4 and 5. |The plays; The Book Club of little Witterington' by Joan Greening, 'The Journey of the Juniors A' by Ann Marie McCarthy, 'The Bag ladies' by Frank Gibbons and 'The Coffee Shop' by Ray Lawerence are mostly in the comedy genre and will provide loads of laughs in an ideal location. Curtain up each night at 8.30 p.m. Great night's entertainment awaits. Don't miss it. Fixtures Social Media and club text will be updated once any fixtures have been finalised. Lotto Subscriptions Annual lotto Subscriptions can be renewed via any member of lotto committee or any of the executive committee member. Lotto Results, October 21. Numbers 4, 13, 15, 22. No jackpot Won. Spot Prizes €50 Pat Moynihan, Rathduff; €30 Mrs O'Donovan, The Shop; €20 Chris Buckley, c/o Clyda Rovers; €20 Michael O'Keeffe; c/o Juvenille Club; €20 William Connelly c/o DJ Browne. Next Draw takes place on Friday, October 28,, Railway Bar, Ballinamona, jackpot worth €12,500 Mourneabbey Fine Gael The Mourneabbey Fine Gael Churchgate collection will take place at all masses this weekend. Under-14s win North Cork On Saturday last, the under-14s had a great win in the rescheduled North Cork final in Killavullen over Kilshannig. The game was closely contested from the beginning but Mourneabbey pulled away to retain their title. The final score was 2-14 to 1-3. Well done to the team, management and parents of the players. Under-21 County Final Mourneabbey came up against a strong under-21 St Val's team on Saturday last in St Michael's GAA. The initial exchanges were contested closely but St Val's blazed ahead and outscored Mourneabbey to retain their title. Hard luck to players and management team Derry Cronin, Shane Ronayane, Dominic Gallagher and medic Kathleen Browne. Minor A County SF Good luck to Mourneabbey v St Val's in Minor A County semi-final next Saturday, October 29, at 1.30 p.m. in St Michael's GAA. Munster Club Senior Final Good luck to Mourneabbey Senior team as they prepare for Senior Club Munster Final versus the Banner (Clare) on Saturday, November 5, with venue and time TBC. Please check social media for updates. Table quiz Mourneabbey Ladies' Football Club will hold a fundraising table quiz in the Railway Bar, Mourneabbey on Sunday night, October 30, at 9.30 p.m. A table of four will be €40. A great night is guaranteed with plenty of spot prizes up for grabs on the night. Online Editors 
