sport gaa
{ John Greene 
    February 15 2014 10:04 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/sport-no-longer-a-bystander-in-societys-big-fights-30013590.html }
Alex White is like a dog with a bone. His bone is alcohol sponsorship in sport and like any good dog with a bone, he's not letting go.  Alex White is a junior minister in the Department of Health and he doesn't just have right on his side, he has righteousness too. In a culture such as ours, where the messages around alcohol are so confused, creating any kind of link – no matter how artificial – between drinking and sporting excellence is an easy target, a gimme for anyone in search of a legacy. So Alex White has right on his side. But when you are a leading member of a socialist party which is going into an election on a low-tax agenda then having right on your side is not as black and white as you might think. And Alex White thought that the death of a young man in Carlow from a grotesque drinking game was a good time to remind the rest of us of the dangers of alcohol sponsorship in sport. In last Saturday's Irish Independent, he wrote: "We do not have a final decision yet on the proposal to phase out alcohol sponsorship of major sporting events. I remain firmly convinced that this should be done, even allowing a relatively lengthy lead-in period to help sporting bodies to find new sources of funding and sponsorship." The value in financial terms to sport in Ireland from alcohol sponsorship is thought to be around €30m – a significant sum, and all the 'lead-in' time in the world won't make it any easier for Irish sport to replace it, not unless the government is prepared to step up to the plate. The State could easily assume responsibility for the void that the ban would leave but it just won't do it. All it takes is a little imagination but sadly when it comes to the contribution sport makes to society our legislators too often have a one-track mind. Our leaders don't seem to get the holistic stuff at all. Sport, and its role in society, has evolved over time far beyond its original designs. Sport always had the power to lift spirits and to create the kind of environment where people can feel good about themselves. Sport can lead to great outpourings of collective joy – yes, it's a cliché but it can lift the national mood. So when Rob Heffernan wins a gold medal – even if it's in a sport many people don't normally engage with – it creates a surge of goodwill and happiness, just as the Irish rugby team's win over Wales did last weekend. Look at the sense of anticipation and excitement ahead of next Saturday's match against England and at how the prospect of winning a Triple Crown, maybe even a Grand Slam, has energised people. Now, though, there is so much more to sport. There is a depth of feeling and emotional awareness that is scarcely credited, certainly not by the likes of White who is seeking to impose something on sport that could do as much harm as good. This is because sport doesn't just lead the national mood at times, it also has adapted to react to it. Sport has moved to use the influence it has to try and tackle some of modern society's ills, including alcohol and drug abuse. Sporting bodies in Ireland are instruments of public good. Take the two largest sporting bodies in the country – the GAA and the FAI. Both are extraordinarily active now in communities in ways scarcely imagined less than a decade or so ago. For each – and particularly the GAA – the traditional idea of solid club structures and pursuits remains the basis of their community involvement. Running alongside these traditional notions, however, the GAA and the FAI reach out to people in other ways. The GAA, for instance, has a Community and Health Manager, former Leitrim footballer Colin Regan. Last week, Regan wrote to every club in the country to outline the GAA's plans "to respond more effectively to the health and well-being needs of members". The cornerstone of the plan is the setting up of a new National Health and Wellbeing Committee. "Health professionals and experts from the four provinces with strong GAA links have been invited to join this committee to help direct the Association's work in this important area," said O'Regan. Furthermore, each club will have a club Health and Wellbeing Officer. This plan is an enhancement of earlier GAA strategies, dating back to 2006, such as the Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention (ASAP) programme which led to initiatives such as the annual health challenge, Off the Booze and On the Ball. Has any one group looked to counteract the social problems created by rural depopulation more than the GAA? Or to raise awareness of another great national shame, rural isolation? In good times, and in bad, has any group done more to keep some kind of normalcy in genuinely stricken communities than the GAA? It has taken leadership in other areas too, including linking up with St Patrick's Hospital on a mental health project, while Regan also sits on a national steering committee on suicide prevention. The breadth of the FAI's social inclusion brief is also quite staggering. A recent report highlighted partnerships in 26 local authority areas, successfully targeting a range of problems. The late-night leagues, run in conjunction with An Garda Síochána, are probably the most high profile, producing telling statistics. The purpose of the late-night leagues is to divert teenagers from crime and anti-social behaviour by providing meaningful activities. In Ballymun a few years ago, Garda call-outs were reduced by 51 per cent during the leagues. Last year, IPB Insurance, which is building a reputation for its own brand of social investment policies, donated €50,000 towards these leagues in Dublin. In Donegal, the late-night league formula was used to foster cross-community and cross-border relationships, and in Castleblaney a late-night futsal league for teenagers was held on Fridays from 9-11pm, which are considered peak hours for anti-social behaviour. Other examples of the kind of work being done by the FAI include: the Irish Homeless team, the late-night league in Leitrim for men over 40, the Noel O'Reilly Cup aimed at children with truancy problems, a football and literacy programme in Inchicore, an after-school programme in Carlow, and 'Goal to Work' schemes in Leitrim and Mayo training jobseekers as qualified coaches and referees. These are the kind of meaningful and worthwhile outcomes that derive from having the resources to pay for full-time and part-time development officers and community liaison officers. The GAA and the FAI are not alone in this commitment but as the two largest sporting organisations in the country they are the role models – their reach is greatest. Every day they are showing the social dividend that can be derived from sport and from smart investment in it. The argument around the sponsorship of sport by drinks companies is a complex one. It is not as simple as White and others try to make it. Most people accept, given our national predilection for alcohol addiction and misuse, that any attempts at glorifying alcohol needs to be looked at. Even then, however, there are many contradictions at the heart of the argument, such as the fact that most of our top sportsmen and women – amateur and professional – are actually perfect advertisements for the benefits of abstinence, the ideal marketing tools in the promotion of healthy living. Sport is not the problem here, it is part of the solution. Sunday Indo Sport 
