sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    October 29 2014 10:51 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/players-will-be-getting-paid-within-10-years-says-eugene-mcgee-30703915.html }
Professionalism is on the way in the GAA over the next ten years, fuelled by ever-changing circumstances that cannot be resisted. That's according to Eugene McGee, former All-Ireland-winning manager with Offaly, Irish Independent columnist and GAA administrator. He makes the predictions, which will shock those who insist that amateurism is essential to the GAA's continued success, in his autobiography, 'The GAA in my Time' which is published today. He asserts that with some county managers being paid up to €50,000 per annum and leading players earning as much as €10,000 for commercial activities, the amateur dam is already bursting. He claims too that some players have switched clubs "in exchange for money or benefit-in-kind, particularly in Dublin." He believes that all this is going on with the full knowledge of the GAA authorities. "Breaches of the amateur status rules are now seemingly being accepted by the GAA so the question that follows as we look towards the next 10-20 years is where will these developments that have occurred over the last 20 years take the GAA? "What will the equivalent rule in the Official Guide read like in 2034? Will there be a rule there at all? Or will it lead the GAA towards the word that dare not speak its name: PROFESSIONALISM? I believe it will," he writes. McGee argues that there has been a watering down of the wording of the amateur status rule over the past 20 years, dissipating the impact and making it easier to circumvent. "The new wording has facilitated an influx of money into the GAA that was never allowed prior to then. And we can take it as read that the watering down of the former strict amateur code will continue, mainly because the GAA itself is unable to prevent it from happening. "For example, it's a certain fact for many years that county and club team managers are being paid all over the country with millions of euro changing hands annually," he writes. Inevitable While McGee believes that the march towards a form of professionalism is inevitable, he does not expect it to develop into a total pay-for-play system, certainly not in the shorter term. And with the GAA retaining control over eligibility for inter-county transfers, it should be possible to restrict an exodus from weak to strong counties, which have greater financial resources. "There could be a limited form of pay-for-play, rather than direct professional comparison with other sports. There could be payment for players without any possibility of transfers so that the present system would remain as it is." In that scenario, he envisages wealthier counties paying their players much more than their weaker counterparts, leading to a further widening of the divide. To counteract that, he suggests allocating greater financial resources to weaker counties. McGee believes that the big challenge rests in carefully managing the inevitable change, rather than resisting it. "Right now, every section of the GAA, including the GPA, is adamant that nobody wants pay-for-play but such promises regarding amateur status have been meaningless in the past and there is no reason to believe that it will be any different in the future. "So think forward 20, or maybe even 10 years, from now and ask yourself - will there be any serious amateur status regarding inter-county players? Personally, I doubt it," he writes. Opponents of moves towards even the mildest form professionalism have always argued that it would destroy the Association but McGee believes that view may now be losing ground. "Thousands of dedicated GAA people actually favour, even now, some form of compensation being given to players because of the tremendous dedication and time they give on behalf of the sport they love. "In the type of society we now have in Ireland, the notion of people applying themselves assiduously to a cause that requires a lot of time, hard graft and serious interruption to family life, not to mention a lot of personal abuse at times, and not getting any financial reward, seems almost anathema to a lot of Irish people. "My guess is that there will be a slow but steady demand from GAA people to give something tangible back in return to those young men who brighten up so many people's lives," writes McGee. He is convinced that a form of pay-for-play could be introduced without proving especially contentious, provided the difficult experiences endured by athletics, rugby union and cricket in similar circumstances were taken on board. He identifies the playing/training workload facing many players at certain times of year, countered by long periods of inactivity, as one of the biggest problems currently facing the GAA. "Quite simply, there are far too many competitions at present, a lot which need to be abolished. Only then can a proper national fixtures plan be provided. At club level, where more than 98 per cent of all football is played, there is huge anger and, in some cases, despair by players in many counties over the lack of proper fixture-making." He blames county managers for part of the problem, since many insist that county players are kept free of club action while their interest in the inter-county provincial and All-Ireland championships remains intact. This has led to stagnation on the club scene during the summer months, during which many club players head overseas. McGee is concerned too by the drop-out rate of players in the 17-20 age bracket and attributes it to excessive demands. "Talented boys in that age-group are often flogged to death by a myriad of team managers making unreasonable demands on them at a time when their studies are the most important thing in their, and their parents', lives. "The pressure often leads to talented players walking away from football and who can blame them, particularly if they are from less successful counties where they see little future for winning things." While the GAA needs to tighten up on its fixtures/competitions schedules, McGee warns against handing over too much of the year for rugby and soccer to dominate media coverage. "One of the reasons that soccer and rugby evoke more interest at certain times of the year is because from late September until May, the live coverage of GAA games is scant, compared to summertime. "Only TG4 consistently cover winter games, for instance, and Setanta cover about a dozen national league games. It's something that's very much appreciated by GAA people, while other television channels, most notably RTE, saturate the market with rugby and soccer," he writes. The growth in popularity of rugby is a challenge for the GAA, many of whose members are fans of all sports. "In the 1960s and 70s, rugby union was largely confined to large urban areas. Televised games were few and far between. But the game has been democratised far more now and thousands of GAA followers regularly attend rugby matches. An ever-increasing number of young boys are playing rugby, with the extra incentive that Gaelic football lacks of aspiring some day to playing rugby professionally. Aspiration "This aspiration has always been available for young soccer players, but somehow the attraction of rugby seems to be more popular with many young boys nowadays." McGee urges the GAA to sever all sponsorship links with alcoholic drink interests, including local pubs. He describes alcohol abuse as "one of the greatest social evils in this country for centuries" and believes the GAA should pay a major part changing mindsets. "The GAA is the largest organisation in the country and therefore has the ability to influence young people in various ways. I believe the GAA should take a stand against alcohol abuse by not accepting sponsorship from any alcohol-related commercial bodies," he writes. That includes the banning of local pubs putting their names on GAA jerseys as well as large corporate drinks sponsorship. "By flaunting alcohol in any form of promotion in the GAA context, the organisation is, in even a small way, condoning the abuse of alcohol. The GAA can afford to avoid alcohol sponsorship and would gain enormous credit throughout the country if they took a stand." McGee's book, published by Ballpoint Press, will be launched in Croke Park this evening by Mick O'Dwyer. Irish Independent 
