sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    April 08 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/croker-an-icon-to-sporting-bigotry-26089454.html }
Croker an icon to sporting  bigotry  THE message sent out from Saturday's GAA Congress  following the vote to keep Croke Park closed to other sports is deeply ins THE message sent out from Saturday's GAA Congress following the vote to keep Croke Park closed to other sports is deeply insulting to the majority of GAA members who wished the great stadium to become the centre of our growing and more mature nationhood. Instead, this glorious modern edifice largely paid for by tax payers' money remains in many eyes as a perceived icon to sporting bigotry. And younger members in particular about whom so much lip-service is paid every year are embarrassed at the image of the GAA which the decision sends out. Unfortunately for these young GAA people the real power in the GAA is largely reserved in the hands of much older members, as the list of speakers opposed to the change in Rule 42 clearly showed us last Saturday. Equally interesting was the fact that several past presidents of the Association voted against the motion. The GAA is certainly changing but the change is tortuously slow. When the dust settles on the bizarre style of voting, the refusal of a re-count and the pyrrhic victory of the old guard, the biggest winner at the GAA's annual bash will be seen to be the Taoiseach Bertie Ahern. He is said to have an unusually steely determination to ensure that his dream, called Stadium Ireland in Abbotstown on the north side of Dublin city, will be built regardless of the cost. As a result of what happened at the GAA congress his task has been made substantially easier. The GAA agreed to play at least six of their biggest championship matches in Stadium Ireland. Then they voted NOT to make Croke Park available for sports other than those presently covered by GAA rules. In plain English, that means that rugby and soccer will not be allowed in Croke Park so long as Rule 42 in the GAA's official Guide stays in place. The significance for Bertie Ahern's dream of Stadium Ireland of these two decisions by the GAA is immense. GAA officials are divided as to whether the £60m announcement, coming 12 hours before the crucial vote on Rule 42 was due, played a major role in the ultimate decision, but certainly the timing was no coincidence. The motion to open up Croke Park was beaten by only two votes and one of the main arguments for the motion was the economic one that the GAA could make a lot of money from renting the ground to the IRFU and the FAI if either or both were interested. The £60m carrot from Bertie Ahern scuttled that argument. What surprised many GAA delegates was the decision by the GAA's management committee to play so many prime GAA games in Stadium Ireland from 2005 onwards. While there will be additional championship games in both hurling and football because of changes in the championship structures this year and next, it is still difficult to understand why, after rejecting the option of rugby and soccer rental income from Croke Park, the GAA then hands over several of its own big matches to another stadium over which it has no control. The closeness of the voting over Rule 42 would indicate that it will be back on the GAA congress again next year and will be passed. But most GAA officials believe that it will be too little too late by then. The decision not to open up Croke Park means there is still no major stadium here capable of staging big soccer and rugby internationals where the attendance would be 50,000 or more. Had Croke Park become available then there is no doubt that public opinion could have swung away from Stadium Ireland in the next year or two. Faced with ever-escalating costs for Stadium Ireland a billion pounds and still counting the public might start asking why this new stadium was necessary now that Croke Park with a capacity of 80,000 and world-class facilities was up and running in Dublin and available for rugby and soccer. This mind-set could have become more pronounced if the Irish economy was to slow down over the next couple of years and the cost of Stadium Ireland was to escalate at the same time. Now with Croke Park out of bounds for soccer and rugby, the case for Stadium Ireland is boosted. Particularly as the FAI has decided to abandon its own plans for a new stadium and become a tenant of Stadium Ireland. The second bonus for Bertie Ahern from the GAA at the weekend was the decision to play about half-a-dozen major games in the new Bertie stadium when it is built in 2005. The significance of this move is that it provides the new stadium with big crowd-pulling events in the summer months when it is unlikely there would be any major soccer or rugby matches. Of course, big favours do not come cheap, particularly in politics. To get the FAI on board, the Government has offered well in excess of £100m over a 12-year period. The GAA has been got on-side for what will probably end up as a similar figure. On Friday night it was announced that the Government is to give the GAA £60m over the next three years for finishing the redevelopment of Croke Park, which is a huge boost for the GAA which was faced with massive long-term borrowings if it had to rely on its own resources to finish Croke Park. 
