sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    August 11 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/local-residents-are-the-new-masters-of-croke-park-26037478.html }
THE GAA always prides itself on being a very democratic sports  organisation. Everybody can have their say in the GAA, they tell us. Just go along to your club meetings and you can progress your ideas all the way up to the very top at the Annual Congress. And if you are from Cork that is even more true! However, last week the GAA took the democratic dimension beyond where it has ever gone before. Before making a decision about where they would replay a major championship match they went out into the highways and by-ways and asked the people in the streets what they should do. No sign of the famous GAA dictatorship here. No preaching down to the ordinary members of the GAA about what they should or should not do. No sir, when the GAA decided to go all democratic they really pushed out the boat. Last week, we had the astonishing scenario when for two days the GAA, Ireland's most powerful sporting organisation by a mile, could not make a decision about where to play the Dublin-Donegal All-Ireland quarter-final replay until they had consulted with the people who live in the immediate vicinity of Croke Park. Sean McCague, Liam Mulvihill, Pauric Duffy, the Chairman of the GAC, and not even Frank Murphy himself could come up with the answer to when and where these two counties would meet again. From everything we have been led to believe, that decision was made by a group of people who are not even members of the GAA. To talk of tails wagging dogs would be an injustice to both tails and dogs in this instance. Dublin had their own views about the staging of the replay, so did Donegal and half the country. But their views counted for nothing, nor did those of the GAA body who are supposed to make all such decisions, the Games Administration Committee under the Chairmanship of Pauric Duffy. The GAC met last Wednesday, but at the meeting's end they were not in a position to tell the nation's sports followers where or when this eagerly awaited game would take place. In the GAA we already have a lot of committees with strange initials such as the GAC, the HEC, the FDC, and whatever you're having yourself. Now we can add in a newly created body with the initials CPARA. Judging by the happenings of the past week this particular organisation of which most GAA people were blissfully unaware until now, will become as important in relation to the use of the new Croke Park as the new playing pitch itself. CPARA stands for the Croke Park Area Residents Alliance which is an organisation that claims to speak for people who live in houses in the immediate vicinity of Croke Park. Ever since the redevelopment of Croke Park was first mooted over a decade ago, some of the people living close to the stadium have raised objections on the grounds that their quality of life would be damaged on big match days and few fair-minded people could disagree with that sentiment. At first, no one in the GAA took them very seriously on the grounds that big games had been staged in Croke Park since 1912 and the locals never seemed too bothered. But, of course, times have changed and people who feel their rights have been infringed are nowadays, rightly, prepared to fight to protect themselves, particularly against large bodies such as the GAA. A lot of haggling went on between the residents and the GAA at various stages of the planning permission for the new Croke Park with victories and defeats for both sides. The residents, for example, won a concession that if there were night-time events such as concerts in the stadium, they would have to end by 10.0. Some of the controversial matters were actually written into the planning permission, but some others were not and were more of a 'gentleman's agreement' sort of arrangement. Both sides are now realising that such agreements are fraught with problems. Since most ordinary GAA members hardly ever know what is happening in the GAA's corridors of power, it is hardly surprising that the CPARA know even less. For instance they believed that the GAA had decided that All-Ireland quarter-finals ending in draws were to go to extra-time. Actually that WAS the original intention of the group which drew up the Qualifier proposals, but the Central Council, no doubt thinking in financial terms, decided such draws should go to replays and in the first two years of the Qualifiers four of the eight quarter-finals have been drawn. Therefore CPARA were not expecting a replay between Donegal and Dublin because they thought extra-time was the procedure. They were not best pleased that the GAA had never told them about the change, or so they claim anyway. Mind you, thousands of actual GAA members are often not pleased with what the GAA does or does not do but they don't have the clout of the CPARA. According to an 'agreed' statement issued by the GAA and the CPARA on Thursday last, the latter "has agreed in the unique situation that this game between Dublin and Done gal can be held at Headquarters." Now isn't that very nice of them! They will actually allow the GAA stage a big match in Croke Park. But lest anybody in the GAA thinks that their troubles with Croke Park are over, the statement goes on to say: "With the exception of Leinster finals, any future Saturday replays of games, up to and including All-Ireland quarter-finals, will be played at provincial venues if the expected attendance is less than 50,000." So next year, for example, if Dublin draw with another county in the Leinster championship prior to the Leinster final, somebody will have to decide if the replay is going to draw a crowd of 50,000 or not before the game can be fixed. One supposes that CPARA will be a party to this decision too. Who said the GAA never consults with the masses? The GAA is unfortunate. Just weeks after the re-opening of the magnificent stadium which was the greatest PR coup the organisation has ever had with universal praise even from partisan anti-GAA people they now find that in reality they are not masters of their own domain. They cannot make their own decisions about how and when the stadium will be used without the agreement of the CPARA. When the inevitable happens and the GAA decides to rent out the stadium to any other sporting body who is inter ested (if any) one wonders what will be the reaction of the CPARA to a big soccer match on a Saturday or a Wednes day night under lights. Will such games be vetoed too? If so, then the marketability of this fabulous stadium will be irrevocably damaged. Many years ago, I was one of very few voices suggesting that the new Croke Park should have been built on a green field site near the M50 where there would be no restrictions. Obviously, that's irrelevant now, but the GAA will defi nitely have to come to grips with the problems posed by the CPARA if Croke Park is to achieve anything like its full potential. Having completed such a magnificent project, the GAA should be entitled to make full use of Croke Park, while also ensuring the rights of the local residents are protected, within reason. E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
