sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny - Sports journalist of the year 
    February 12 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/gaa-players-tax-snub-set-to-become-election-issue-26058146.html }
THE Government decision not to include hurlers and footballers in the new scheme which will give some Irish  sports stars a generous tax break on their retirement could become a General Election issue as anger levels rise among  GAA players who feel they are the victims of blatant  discrimination. GAA players are seething over the scheme, which will allow professional sportspeople, who are resident in Ireland, to claim a refund of 40 per cent of the total tax paid for any ten years prior to their retirement. Amateur GAA players aren't eligible but they argue that they should qualify for a tax break for monies earned in their normal jobs. Many intend to challenge candidates in the forthcoming General Election on the fairness of the scheme, which was announced last Thursday by Minister for Finance, Charlie McCreevy. GAA president Sean McCague yesterday promised to raise the matter at the highest levels to ascertain if adjustments could be made so that some form of tax exemption also applied to hurlers and footballers. "When I first heard about the scheme, I assumed it could only apply to professional sportspeople but there must be ways in which GAA players can benefit too. It's certainly worthy of examination," said McCague. The scheme will also figure high on the agenda at tomorrow night's meeting of the GAA Players Committee. Chairman, Jarlath Burns, said that GAA players had every right to feel sore over the manner in which they had been treated and accused the Government of introducing a poorly thought-out scheme. Others were even more severe. Former Donegal and Mayo star, Martin Carney, who works as an RTE football analyst during the summer, said that the Government had insulted every GAA player and described the new scheme as being "blatantly discriminatory and downright unfair." Carney said that it was a form of apartheid and should be opposed by all sections of the GAA. "If this is the way official Ireland treats players who put so much into this country, then it's a disgrace. "I simply couldn't believe it when I heard that professional sportspeople were to get a tax break while GAA players will be ignored. "This is not about jealousy but about an important principle. The Government are awarding a form of pension to people who are already making big money out of sport. That pension will be paid - in part - by GAA players, who have done just as much to enrich our sporting life without getting a penny," said Carney. He is also fearful that the scheme will act as an incentive to coax more youngsters away from Gaelic Games and into sports where they will earn big money and later get a tax refund from the State. "Is it now the official policy of the Government to regard GAA players as worthless? Judging by the latest developments, the obvious answer is 'yes'. The GAA shouldn't accept this. They should fight for players' entitlements because if this scheme is allowed to proceed unchallenged, it will do serious damage to the GAA." Jarlath Burns said that the Players' Committee would discuss the matter tomorrow night and, judging by initial soundings he had taken, the mood would be extremely hostile towards Minister McCreevy's scheme. "GAA players felt jealous when they heard about it and who can blame them? There is only so much GAA players can accept and now they have taken a hit from the Government. "Do the Government want to turn hurling and football into second rate sports? There is no logic in what they have done and I can tell you that it has angered an awful lot of GAA people," said Burns. Adding to the GAA players' annoyance is a provision in the scheme which prevents sportspeople claiming tax breaks from endorsements, sponsorship and advertising deals. The GAA have lifted the restrictions of players earning money from these outlets but income tax will have to paid on them. It means, in effect, that a GAA player who earns any money from non-playing activities will have to pay full tax while millionaire sportspeople from other disciplines will get a 40 per cent break from their playing activities. Wexford hurling manager, Tony Dempsey, who will be running as a Fianna Fail candidate in the next General Election, said that he would like to see GAA players exempted from income tax on money earned for appearances, endorsements etc. The Players Committee are expected to issue a formal statement after tomorrow night's meeting outlining their stance and with Sean McCague promising to have the matter discussed at the highest levels, the Government decision will remain very much on the GAA agenda. "I have no idea who lobbied for this or why it came about but it has really angered GAA players. "It's more than insensitive - it's unfair," concluded Burns. Meanwhile, Simon Whelahan has followed his famous brother, Brian, into yet another high-achievement zone by being chosen as the Leinster hurling winner in the AIB GAA Provincial Player Awards scheme. Brian won the award two years ago and Simon, who captained Birr to success in the Leinster final replay over Castletown (Laois) last December, has been chosen as the 2001 winner. Ger 'Sparrow' O'Loughlin, an All-Ireland senior medal winner in 1995-97, has been appointed as a Clare minor hurling selector. The eight 2001 provincial winners Hurling Connacht: Mark Kerins (Clarinbridge); Leinster: Simon Whelahan (Birr); Munster: Fergal Hartley (Ballygunner); Ulster: Alistair Elliot (Dunloy). Football - Connacht: Aidan Higgins (Charlestown); Leinster: Tommy Gill (Rathnew); Munster: Colin Corkery (Nemo Rangers); Ulster: Enda Muldoon (Ballinderry). All eight winners come from the provincial champions and will receive their awards next month. 
