sport gaa
{  
    March 25 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/tug-of-war-in-tallaght-26286338.html }
THE symbolism may have been striking when Croke Park relaxed its strict door policy on soccer yesterday, but only a few miles away in Tallaght the GAA says it is being shown none of the same hospitality. In the third largest urban population area after Dublin city and Cork, a proposed 6,000-seater stadium has brought GAA and soccer interests into conflict, leading them up the steps of the High Court. GAA interests are less incensed by soccer, however, than the Minister for Sport, John O'Donoghue. The Kerryman has been roundly accused from the top down of arrogance, subjectivity and being selective with the facts. In Tallaght, GAA sources say that unless the matter shows some sign of being resolved, a local Fianna Fail TD stands to lose his seat in the forthcoming general election. This is based on anecdotal evidence, and may well be scaremongering, but political observers believe that in the four-seat constituency of Dublin South West, one of Fianna Fail's two seats is vulnerable. An issue like this could tilt the balance. It has certainly mobilised the GAA troops with six GAA clubs in that jurisdiction, fronted by Thomas Davis, currently awaiting the outcome of a judicial hearing in the High Court which they hope will lead to a reversal of the Minister's decision to fund a soccer-only stadium at the partly developed site. They want the GAA to have some access, although they are willing to allow soccer have the majority stake. The review is focused on planning procedures, but the more substantive issue remains to be fought over and Dublin County Board is fully behind the campaign to have the GAA included. The initial development, undertaken by Shamrock Rovers, foundered due to planning hitches and rising debts to builders. Eventually, South Dublin County Council refused to extend planning and reclaimed the site. Since then it has become a moveable feast, with a joint but non-binding agreement to develop the ground struck by soccer and GAA interests - it later fell by the wayside. Eventually the local council, having gained a majority decision, decided to proceed with a multi-purpose stadium until the Minister insisted that public funds would only be made available provided soccer enjoyed sole residence. That brought another twist, the council voting for a soccer facility. Following recent robust criticism, the Minister's office made a number of responses on Friday evening when contacted in relation to the Tallaght Stadium project. It denied that the Minister was advocating an exclusively soccer venue. "The Minister is happy for any other sports to be played at the stadium as long as its primary function as a home for one or more eircom League clubs is maintained," a spokesperson said. But there was a caveat. "To accommodate a full size senior GAA pitch in the available space and taking into account the works already completed on the site, significant changes would have to be made to the existing plans, thereby further delaying the process and, of course, adding to costs." The GAA insist that extending the playing area to include a Gaelic games pitch would not restrict capacity This issue, the precise impact and consequences for funding, of incorporating the larger GAA playing area, is a bone of contention between the Minister and GAA interests. The latter insist that extending the playing area to include a Gaelic games pitch would not restrict capacity. But the Minister, replying in the Dáil last summer to a query from Fine Gael's Jimmy Deenihan, said that this was a factor in his decision to refuse public funds for a multi-sport stadium. He added: "The Dublin GAA County Board will be aware of land at Rathcoole. I have indicated in the past that I would be prepared to consider favourably applications for funding for the development of the facility there." So, the GAA can develop Rathcoole and expect some public funding - what's the problem? The issue is that the Government is providing soccer with a ?17.5m facility that requires no financial input from Rovers or the FAI. This in an area described by local GAA sources as "competitive and strategically important" where they are competing with soccer and rugby. When contacted on Friday evening, the Minister's office was sticking by its guns. "The GAA have received the lion's share of the grant assistance paid out under the Sports Capital Programme by the Government, which is appropriate as the organisation accounts for a very significant number of those who participate in active sport," it argued. "For example, of the ?483m paid out in Sports Capital Programme grants by the Government since 1998, ?161.4m, or 33 per cent, has been provided for GAA facilities or projects. The support promised by the Government for the redevelopment of the stadium at Tallaght is a recognition of the needs of soccer and an attempt to assist that sport to reorganise its facilities in a strategic manner." Not for turning in other words. Having a strained relationship with their soccer counterparts is nothing new to the GAA, but relations with the State have generally been pleasant and mutually beneficial. Bertie Ahern is a well-known Dublin GAA fan and it does him no harm to be seen as one. Fine Gael added Graham Geraghty to their election ticket in spite of an undiplomatic track record and no discernible interest in politics until then. O'Donoghue's insistence on Tallaght stadium being a soccer-only ground, and his influence on overturning a previous decision of South Dublin County Council to allow GAA and other sports into the proposed stadium, have damaged relations. His line that he would not rescind that decision until "hell freezes over" is the type of approach that has greatly rankled with the GAA. During the past week the decision to allow the redevelopment of Lansdowne Road to begin was broadly welcomed as it relieves the burden of hosting future internationals at Croke Park. But the plans won't allow for the inclusion of a playing space large enough to accommodate Gaelic games. This lack of reciprocation is part of the reason GAA interests are so incensed over Tallaght, although this particular issue predated Croke Park's recent embrace of soccer and rugby. Beyond that element of reciprocation there are basic differences of principle on the Tallaght stadium that have created tensions between the Minister and the GAA. Asked directly on Friday whether allowing the GAA a role in Tallaght stadium would restrict capacity, the reply from the Minister's office about having to make "significant changes" "resulting in further delay to the process" and "adding to costs" is not really the same as saying that an extension of the playing area would reduce capacity. We also asked for a response to accusations from the GAA's PRO Danny Lynch last week that the Minister was being "disingenuous" with figures relating to the funding of Croke Park. He challenged the Government's claim that ?114m had been allocated towards the redevelopment - putting the true figure at ?19m. Instead, the vast bulk of the ?114m emanated from the National Lottery, according to Lynch. "The minister is continuously referring to the taxpayers' money that went into Croke Park but, other than than ?19m for the Special Olympics, the money that went into it was Lotto money. To suggest it was taxpayers' money is a bit disingenuous." In response, the Minister's office stated that it was keen to "correct this assertion" that funding provided under the Sports Capital Programme does not come from the exchequer and was different from 'taxpayers' money' in the Exchequer. "While it is correct that funds generated by the National Lottery have allowed the Government to fund special community undertakings including sport, youth, culture, health and welfare, the arts and the Irish language, the mechanism by which these funds are made available is through the exchequer. "Expenditure on the Sports Capital Programme is funded through the exchequer and has to be hard fought for and justified at the cabinet table. The exchequer is a limited pot and money paid out for any one purpose reduces the availability of money remaining for other expenditure." The GAA is also seeking clarification from the Government over what monies are being allocated for proposed grant aid for players Lynch went on to say that the Minister's comments would "peeve some people off" considering the huge tourism revenues the GAA had generated for the State through the opening of the historic grounds to rugby and soccer. He also outlined the GAA's opposition to Tallaght Stadium being reserved for soccer when it was being publicly funded in its entirety. The GAA is also seeking clarification from the Government over what monies are being allocated for proposed grant aid for players, a scheme dreamt up by the GPA. Last year the Government said that ?5m would be available, but that the mechanism on how to dispense it had to be made by the GAA. A meeting between the GPA and GAA will take place this week. At this juncture it looks unlikely that an obvious short-term compromise can be reached. Firstly, all sides will await the High Court's decision on whether Thomas Davis are entitled to challenge the Council's decision; this is expected by the end of this month. But the battle will go on as both sides see it as one they can't afford to lose. High-ranking sources in Dublin claim that GAA clubs in Tallaght were informally told that future funding under the Sports Capital Programme might be compromised by pursuing the matter. There were also claims that South Dublin County Council officials intimated that ongoing problems over access at the GAA site at Rathcoole might not be quickly resolved in such circumstances. The Minister rebuffed these claims. "This is a completely unfounded statement and is untrue. The Sports Capital Programme is conducted in a fair, transparent and professional manner and the analysis of grant applications is carried out with reference to strictly applied guidelines. Considerations such as is alleged by your question would never be allowed to determine success or failure of a grant application." In soccer parlance, it could well go to penalties. 
