sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    October 28 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/special-congress-comment-26032482.html }
'Rottweilers' keep GAA in the dark ages IT wasn't only the clocks that moved back in time at the weekend. So too did the GAA when they assembled for a Special Congress in Dublin. They were there to consider putting into practiCe a whole raft of proposals which the Special Review Committee (SRC) had put forward regarding the direction which the GAA should be going over the next 10 to 20 years. But, instead of moving the GAA forward, the delegates behaved like a crowd of backwoods people with their heads stuck very firmly in the sand. The GAA rarely goes in for major 'think tanks' at such a high level as the SRC was under the chairmanship of former president Peter Quinn. Many outside people who are not GAA activists but who have great expertise in various facets of Irish life were on the committee. The last time the GAA had such a committee was the McNamee Commission back in the 1960s and their report, which was largely acted upon, was the main vehicle for modernising the GAA into the fine sports organisation it is today. Or is it? Looking through the names of delegates at the weekend meeting I saw many people from various parts of Ireland who were representing their counties at GAA congresses 10, 20, 30 and even 40 years ago. These are the rottweilers of the GAA political system once they get hold of power in their own county they will never let go. Their ideas about how the GAA should be run were frozen in time about 25 years ago and have never thawed out since. Many of them would still have 'The Ban' on playing soccer and rugby if they had their way. These people have been dismayed at the extent to which the GAA has modernised itself in the past 10 to 20 years with sponsorship, adopting things from other sports and letting the corporate set into the best seats in Croke Park. They have been outvoted or otherwise got around for all of these advances but they are still determined to show that they have not been totally emasculated within the GAA political structures. Their philosophy for the GAA can be summed up thus: We change nothing, we're grand as we are. These conservatives were given an injection of adrenaline for their cause when the SRC report proposed that nobody should hold GAA office over the age of 65, that County Board chairmen should be the ones to represent their county at Central Council and other proposals aimed at bringing new, younger people into GAA administration. My own old GAA pal, Larry McGann (71), the long-serving secretary of Knocknavanna Gaels, was particularly incensed about that 65 age limit. He made many phone calls to his cronies around the country over the past couple of weeks to rally the troops in favour of the pensioners holding power in the GAA. He was preaching to the converted and the Special Congress in effect buried the entire SRC report six feet under. Apart from a couple of insignificant items, the whole thing was shot down. Even one of the few things agreed to, a close season for inter-county games in November and December, was more to suit those many counties who are always late, through their own inefficiency, completing their internal club competitions than desire to facilitate county players with a rest. Having no inter-county activity to worry them in the last two months of the year will allow them tidy up club matters and then be able to boast that they finished all their competitions in the same year. No matter that, in order to clean up their own mess, they will railroad club players into playing every week up to Christmas in bad weather. I was interested to hear Peter Quinn, a most respected person in the GAA, admit that when he was president of the GAA 10 years ago he didn't have a clue what was going on in the association. "I now realise I was sleepwalking through a serious GAA decline," he said. Such honesty is rare if not unique from GAA officers from presidents down. Those of us who have often highlighted terrible flaws and injustices in the way the GAA runs it's business and abuses the goodwill of its own players are entitled to a wry smile at Quinn's remarks. If I had a Euro for every time I was taunted by GAA officials for being critical and negative about some aspect of association activity I would be a very rich man. Space does not allow me to detail the incredibly backward reasons put forward for killing one SRC motion after another. But just take the decision to reject the call for people appointed to positions in coaching, Irish language and development posts in the GAA to have the appointments based on qualified skills in those areas. In even the smallest business, people have to have the relevant skills before being appointed to any job. But in the GAA there are people being appointed as paid coaches in many counties who have no formal coaching qualifications at all. This is one way in which the GAA wastes a lot of money. People are voted in as so-called 'Irish Officers' in clubs and county board whose knowledge of Irish barely extends to 'A chairde Gael'. They are a laughing stock and serve only to make a laughing stock of the promotion of Irish through the GAA. Some will point to the decision to impose a limit of five years on all GAA officers as progress but don't fool yourself. When the cute officer has served his five years in one position he will simply take up a different officership for another five years. You would need to be up very early in the morning to outwit GAA officials who feel they own the particular GAA unit in which they are involved. Anybody looking around the congress hall last Saturday could see three notable things: the number of men aged 50 or more in attendance; the tiny handful of women delegates; the almost complete absence of delegates in their 20s and present day players. Undoubtedly this was one of the blackest weekends in the recent history of the GAA. After a summer in which the reopening of Croke Park brought unstinting praise for the organisation from all branches of Irish life and the phenomenal success of the Ireland-Australia series many had thought that the GAA had finally shaken off it's conservative and often negative past. But the Special Congress soon demolished those bright hopes. The best summing up of the weekend's deliberations was that the delegates agreed to form a sub-committee "to examine numerous recommendations made by the SRC". That's progress for you! E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
