sport gaa
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    January 10 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/players-want-fair-play-and-fair-pay-26125915.html }
THERE'S little doubt that the most contentious debate in the GAA over the first ten years of the new century will be about what is now being referred to as Pay for Play. While we will undoubtedly have ongoing controversies about referees, fixture pile-ups, soccer in Croke Park, Rule 21 and off-the-ball incidents, these in the main will be mere cannon-fodder for a hungry media. The really big issue, however, is one which will have the potential to strike at the very heart of the GAA's philosophy the amateur ethos on which the GAA has been developed into the hugely successful organisation it is today. Already Gaelic football and hurling are the last outposts of amateurism among the major sports in Ireland. Soccer, basketball, rugby and athletics can all find money to pay their leading players either as full-time or part-time performers. One would have to have a mind totally closed to the outside world, a condition not unknown in the GAA it must be said, not to realise that the GAA's unique position will be seriously challenged within the next few years. Whenever this matter of paying players arises the massed ranks of GAA officials offer one stock answer: ``The GAA could not afford a professional set-up.'' Like many official GAA responses to innovative ideas it is shallow and inadequate. There are varying degrees of professionalism and the GAA would have no problem financing one of the more modest versions. WHEN we look ahead ten or 15 years in a GAA context we can expect massive changes in how the organisation is run simply because many of the hard-core of powerful officers within the GAA who have been calling the shots behind the scenes for the past 20 years or more will have disappeared. They will be replaced by very different GAA officers who will not be warped in their thinking by conservatism, parochialism or petty power-struggles. Already all over Ireland some of the best business brains of the country are involved in GAA administration but at club level only. Dublin is the best example of that. In the next decade we can expect more and more of these talented administrators to move into county board and higher structures and the GAA will never be the same again. Inevitably, the notion of paying inter-county players will keep surfacing. Ten years ago I wrote that the arrival of millions in sponsorship into the GAA would inevitably bring demands from players for a share of the increased revenue which of course is being earned for the GAA by the performances of the players not the officials. And each year that passes brings calls from more and more players for exactly that share. Hardly any players come out and say they want to be paid for playing for their county because very few of them do. SOME players are cute enough to know that if they ever were paid they would not get away with the sort of messing about they do at present. They would not be able to opt out of the national league. They would not be allowed `take a rest.' They would be punished financially every time they were sent off or booked. And there would be no such thing as missing training. I know lots of inter-county players who would not last six months as professionals. We need to put this so-called professionalism into perspective. There is actually no demand now or, I suspect, for the next ten years at least from players to be paid a salary to line out for their county team. Personally I would see no reason why GAA players should ever want to or have to turn professional. But of course there is a huge chasm between what we have at present and full-time professionalism and therein lies the nub of the problem and at the same time the solution. The harsh reality is that in several counties at present players are being abused by their county boards. They are being offered miserly mileage allowances, there is serious delay in paying out these expenses and players are often made to feel they are sponging off the county board when the reverse is the case. After all, one of the richest counties in Ireland which contested an All-Ireland final in recent years still only pays a mileage allowance of THIRTEEN PENCE. Yet in one season alone the players from that county attracted total crowds of over 250,000 to watch them play. WITH that sort of attitude prevailing even in a minority of counties is it any wonder GAA players are angry. Is it any wonder some of them feel exploited? They know that most high-up GAA officials can claim 30 pence a mile to travel to the never ending series of committee meetings they attend in Croke Park and elsewhere. They also know that some of the GAA officials who are lecturing the players about being greedy are themselves highly-paid, full-time officials. They are professionals telling players to forget about professionalism. The reason I believe pay for play will not come into the GAA for a very long time is because of the rationale that drives the GAA as it always has. The `honour and glory syndrome' is still the strongest component in the GAA. There is a lot off foolish talk today about how dedicated the players are, how much fitter they are than 30 or 50 years ago, about all the sacrifices they make, etc, etc. Well have I got news for you! The players of previous generations matched and often surpassed anything modern-day players do. Players trained as often then as now but often it was usually individual training, practising their skills. The players of former times lived through harder economic times when many county boards genuinely could not afford meals after training or in some cases, even meals after games. But those players rarely complained about Spartan conditions or facilities or the absence of trips abroad. They were imbued with the `honour and glory' syndrome which has permeated the GAA since its foundation. The honour of representing your county in football or hurling has always been one of the strongest motivating factors in Irish sport and there is no reason to believe it is any less today. The difference today, however, is that most county boards are far better off financially, or should be if they are properly organised, than their predecessors of 50 years ago. Therefore they should be able to offer more to their inter-county players without breaching the amateur ethic which has served the GAA so well. The Gaelic Players Association will undoubtedly become a major force in the GAA in the coming years but they should not start talking about Pay for Play. The vast majority of inter-county players do not want to be paid as professional players. But there is still room for those players to receive a much larger slice of the ever-expanding GAA financial cake and remain strictly amateur. That is the route the GPA should be following. REVISED rates of travelling expenses hold the key to the problem. These can be controlled by county boards and can be increased in line with inflation or other factors but will still allow the amateur ethic to remain as strong as it ever was. Already a few enlightened county boards are moving in this direction but the vast majority are not and will have to be dragged shouting and screaming into the land of fair play. The GAA currently has several hundred full-time professionals between officials, coaches and administrators. It should be more careful, therefore, about lecturing players about professionalism particularly when the lectures come from full-time officials. This is one problem that can only be solved by mutual respect and the GAA should be operating on that basis rather than seeking confrontation as some recent comments would indicate. The amateur ethic and contented players are perfectly compatible concepts in the modern GAA if the GAA puts in place the necessary structures. But they must be able to insist that ALL county boards comply and this has been the flaw in all arrangements made up to now. The miserly counties should be named and shamed, by the GAA preferably, and if not by the GPA.  * E-mail: emcgee@hotbot.com 
