sport gaa
{  
    July 27 2008 03:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hurling/damned-if-they-do-damned-if-they-dont-26464946.html }
IT will require some exciting endeavour in this year's football and hurling championships to rival the recent drama being played out at the offices of the Disputes Resolution Authority (DRA). Behind closed doors, fateful decisions are being reached. The nation is fully engaged; we know this because Liveline has joined the debate. People appear as intrigued by the Paul Galvin case as they are by Fermanagh's chances of winning an historic first Ulster title. And so, while the DRA deliberated long into the night on a troubled Kerry footballer, the nation held its breath and waited. They weren't to be disappointed or denied the great gasp. On Wednesday, the DRA released a statement that managed, ingeniously, to both puncture the suspense and prolong it. The decision to refer the matter back to the Central Hearings Committee (CHC) has left no party entirely satisfied. GAA officers had feared Galvin would be pardoned entirely so it could have been worse, but the need to form a new and temporary CHC to deal with the case all over again, taking stock of some procedural anomalies present in the first hearing and identified by the DRA, won't have them cracking open the champagne on Jones Road. After a spell during which the GAA seemed to be finally getting a handle on discipline, recent weeks have rattled confidence like never before. Before the Galvin twist, the DRA decision to free Collie Moran sent shivers down the GAA's disciplinary spine. If it has been upstaged by Galvin's case, it is equally unsettling. The DRA found no procedural flaws in the disciplinary process but ruled that the suspension itself was "irrational". After several months of rejecting most cases that came before it and backing the GAA's own findings, the arbitration body, established in 2005 primarily to halt the steady flow of High Court injunctions sought by aggrieved players, has shown a sting in its tail. Although it is an independent body, the GAA cannot but be profoundly affected by its recent decisions. And deeply concerned. Since its arrival, we have seen the GAA's Official Guide prove a poor defence against the lightning raids of legal argument. Passions have run high. Relations between the GAA hierarchy and county committees pursuing cases to the DRA have frayed. Repeated pleas from leading officers, including the GAA president Nickey Brennan, to county boards to accept GAA disciplinary rulings have fallen on deaf ears. Again, the GAA, in marked contrast to all other Irish sporting organisations, finds itself in the public eye, appearing incapable of running its own disciplinary affairs with any degree of stability and conviction. A perfect example of the challenge facing the GAA was the recent case taken to the DRA by two clubs in Laois, Portlaoise and St Joseph's. Both were re-admitted to the U21 football championship, having earlier been thrown out of the competition following a serious row on the field. At the DRA, they got off on a technicality. The tribunal panel found that the referee's report contained some names that were written in English, rather than Irish as laid down by rule, and was therefore non-compliant. It also discovered that subsequent corrections carried out to address this flaw did not have authorisation. Both clubs argued that the original sentences were excessive and found a loophole. This is the culture that prevails. The Collie Moran judgement has not been explained by the DRA but reports suggest that all technical avenues of appeal were rejected -- the procedures stood firm. Instead, the DRA decided that the four-week suspension was irrational and quashed it. As a result, the DRA effectively moved beyond judging a case on the basis of technicalities and revisited the incident itself. The GAA's disciplinary bodies were made to look like patsies. From a morale point of view, the Moran ruling was devastating and perplexing for the GAA. The CCCC asked the referee to reconsider the yellow card he served on Moran and after doing so he upgraded it to red. All subsequent procedures were obeyed to the letter. And it was still overturned. Furthermore, whatever sense of injustice Moran may have felt, a one-month -- effectively a one-match -- ban did not put him at the top of the priority list of Amnesty International. The DRA was intended as a final option for victims of serious injustice. The most charitable interpretation of the Moran incident is that this is not entirely clear. The GAA didn't comment, quite rightly, on the DRA decision but privately it is seething. Now it is being asked to reconsider the Galvin case. The outcome will reveal the GAA's disciplinary mettle and will shine light on its disciplinary integrity and ability to rule fairly and equitably. If the sentence is reduced, it will reflect poorly on the GAA, showing it to be incapable of soundly managing its own affairs. "And that would be a shocking admission for any sporting organisation, would it not?" as one high-ranking official put it. These recent events are the greatest challenge to the leadership of Paraic Duffy, the new director-general of the GAA. Discipline is one of his special fields, where he has distinguished himself in the past, through the application of the rules in a fair, even and transparent manner. He has had no time for the gombeenism that flourishes in many local units. He has led from the front on discipline more than any other senior figure in the GAA. But Duffy now realises that the best will in the world and strict enforcement of the rules may not be enough. Units continue to defy the rules and findings of the disciplinary bodies. Being firm and unequivocal on discipline is the only answer but the DRA's recent rulings are bound to undermine confidence. Everything about the Paul Galvin case is extraordinary. A controversial and confrontational player, he was named Kerry captain late last year, offering him the chance to lead his county to their third All-Ireland in-a-row. While he has had a chequered past, the incidents which led to this point simply beggared belief. With victory safe against Clare in the Munster semi-final on June 15, he reacted to alleged intimidation by his marker by launching a verbal attack on the linesman and slapping the notebook out of referee Paddy Russell's hands. On June 24, he received a 24-week suspension from the CHC. The suspension could have been lighter -- the minimum being three months -- but it could also have been greater as an eight-week ban imposed ran concurrently. Twelve weeks would have meant he'd be eligible to play in the All-Ireland final were Kerry to qualify. Double that wiped out his year and cost him dearly. Two years ago the minimum for minor physical interference with a match official was 24 weeks. Kerry County Board said it appealed on the basis that the suspension was excessive. Taking the case to the DRA meant they were unwilling to accept the appeal ruling by the CAC. It looked certain they were always going to do whatever they could to get his suspension reduced or quashed. Would Kerry have objected had it been quashed? Hardly. The reaction of many in Kerry was symptomatic of the denial culture that envelops many similar cases -- even of a much less serious nature. People accepted he did wrong and yet regarded the offences as only moderate breaches of discipline. Short of physically striking the referee it is hard to imagine an act more contemptuous than slapping a notebook out of the referee's hands while he is in the process of administering justice. All kinds of extenuating circumstances were entered into the mix to cloud the issue, some deliberately and deviously, and some born of simple delusion and partisanship. Paddy Russell's own refereeing performance. Earlier provocation of Galvin. The player's reputation preceding him. Him being made an example of. And so on. Standard fare. The GAA examined the case and according to rule applied the six-month suspension. It is believed that the GAA hierarchy is furious with the Kerry board officers even though they are only aping what other county committees have done in the past in standing squarely behind their players in fighting suspensions. The fact that the same county officers may be presiding over hearings themselves and hoping that the rule of law is respected is one of the GAA's rich ironies. The DRA did not release details of the irregularities found in processing the Galvin case, although there has been speculation and it is believed that the GAA will be armed with this knowledge. One theory is that information on the Galvin suspension was leaked into the public domain before the player was formally notified. Another is that a person or persons involved in the process may have had a conflict of interest. This seems far-fetched but in the Byzantine world of highly technical legal argument, every angle is examined microscopically. Nothing can be taken for granted. A new CHC will be formed in the coming days and it is likely that the GAA will grit its teeth and pick horses for courses. Only tough and unwavering candidates need apply. They may reinstate the suspension, decide to halve it or even double it. One senior ranking GAA officer said the decision of the DRA on Galvin had "paralysed" the GAA and that the Moran verdict had had the same effect. "The attitude of the Kerry County Board is appalling," he said. "They know that he (Galvin) behaved atrociously." Kerry aren't alone. Last year Dublin County Board pursued the case of hurler Peadar Carton to the DRA and won a late reprieve. It meant he could play in the All-Ireland U21 final against Galway but the victory had a hollow ring. The foul stroke Carton pulled on Paul Curran in a league match against Tipperary at Parnell Park earned him an eight-week suspension. It was clearly visible on video evidence but he escaped on a technical point. Naturally, county board officers feel under pressure to be seen to support their man, and all of them are politically sensitive creatures, but the mentality is narrow-minded and self-destructive. It reeks of parochialism. If a county board chairman came out and declared that he would not stand behind a player who had clearly committed a serious breach of discipline he might be hailed a lion-hearted visionary but he knows that he'll get no thanks for it at home. That is the attitude. Maybe too many county board officers, instead of having the leadership virtues their position might entail, are simply too weak and preoccupied with self-preservation to break free of the pack and declare that enough is enough. To announce that this madness has to stop. To tell them when they come knocking on the door, like the Jack Nicholson character, to sell crazy someplace else, that you're all stocked up. You have to be tough and unrelenting on discipline -- there is no room for selective thinking. Paraic Duffy recognises that and he is willing to do something about it. But he cannot do it alone. What message is being sent out to the referees of Kerry by the actions of their county board in recent weeks? Are they to believe that six months for slapping the referee's notebook is adequate -- as the GAA at national level says -- or that three is plenty as their own county board is making out? Would you regard three months as enough if you were the referee? Who can say for sure except that under the current rules the CHC was entitled to dole out a six-month suspension. If they had doubts about three or six, they erred on the side of the wronged: the referee. They obviously decided that to slap a referee's notebook and berate his linesman was a challenge worth meeting. And that if they did not show they were up to it, the implications for law and authority all over the country would be wretched. We do not have to think too hard to find examples of prominent GAA people, movers and shakers, who have been even more guilty of gombeenism than the county officers and the club officials, by locating loopholes to overturn disciplinary decisions. Top to bottom, the culture stinks. In Duffy's drive to clear some of the pollution, the recent DRA calls are a major morale blow. It is believed that Duffy asked, or advised, Monaghan County Board not to pursue the Paul Finlay appeal. He knows how these things work; he has sat in all the committees, served as county board chairman; he doesn't live in an ivory tower. But he has an unshakeable belief and conviction in what is right and what is wrong. The Monaghan board ignored, or declined, his request and turfed out an estimated €10,000 on the case which it lost. Finlay was reported for serious verbal abuse of a match official. Monaghan officers backed their man and you may hear one of them lamenting the decline in refereeing numbers come annual convention. The GAA has been caught up in a moral vacuum. Look around you. See the parents spitting fire and invective every week at their children's matches. See the abuse referees get routinely every week of the year. Listen to the foul-mouthed on the sidelines, perfectly respectable looking men spouting all sorts of abuse at players who are total strangers to them. Think of the outright contempt for the rules. Think of the cheating that is becoming ever more rampant. The diving. The feigning injury. The goading. The risible regard for sportsmanship and the increasing regard for gamesmanship. Now think of when your own team, or player or county, stands accused and how you will react. Will you be honest? Or will you like most people look to deflect the blame. One can appreciate Galvin's own frustration over further delays and he'll wonder why if there were technical hitches that the case against him hasn't been struck out. There are precedents after all. The coded message from the DRA seems to be that a three-month suspension is more appropriate. It was not entitled to alter the suspension term and quashing it would have caused uproar. So it sent it back. Whatever the outcome of the Galvin case, the GAA needs to address some issues without delay. There is a perception that the CCCC has been inconsistent in calling for a review of incidents, and prone to undue influence from television analysts. In order to remove that doubt and concern, and increase public confidence in the system, the GAA needs to establish a review committee that will routinely pore over matches and act accordingly. In recent weeks, some Cork and Kilkenny hurlers can count themselves exceedingly fortunate to have escaped further investigation. That inconsistency cannot be allowed continue as it feeds the impression that some players are above the law while others are useful scapegoats. "There are too many (GAA) rules," sighs one insider, noting the GAA's vulnerability. "Without wanting to sound glib, Christianity has only ten commandments." 
