sport gaa
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    January 18 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/has-gaa-courage-to-catch-millennium-bug-26162793.html }
THERE is very little talk in the GAA world about the millennium but that's hardly surprising. Forward planning as far as most people in the GAA are concerned extends no further than talking about tactics for getting more scores in championship games. But one of these days it will dawn on some GAA administrators, even the Larry McCanns of this world, that we have a millennium coming up. As far as most GAA people are concerned that will not be nearly as important as the centenary of the foundation of the GAA or some notable landmark in the history of the local club but nevertheless there will be a big move soon in then GAA to have the organisation jump on the millennium bandwagon. No doubt the suggestions as to how Cumann Lúthchleas Gael will mark the arrival of the year 2000 will be varied but predictable. Planting trees will be high on the list. Erecting monuments and plaques with inscriptions as Gaeilge will also feature strongly. Garry McMahon of Kerry will probably be persuaded to write a ballad entitled `The Gaels of the Second Millennium'. But if the GAA really wanted to make the most significant Irish sporting contribution to the celebration of the millennium they have a very simple way of doing so. As a special gesture to mark this historic occasion they could run the All-Ireland championship of 2000 on the Open Draw system. By this simple device the GAA would be guaranteed to grab the main sporting spotlight of next year without a shadow of a doubt. Apart from the debate about draining the Shannon, nothing has been so consistently argued about in Irish sport over the past 50 years as the notion of playing the All-Ireland on the Open Draw system. The GAA is an organisation in which the word `precedent' occupies a status unheard of in any other sports body. It is a word that is constantly pulled out of the hat by the conservative wing of the GAA to cut off at the knees any proposals for major change. The most deadly sentence in any GAA debate is: `Chairman, this would be creating a very dangerous precedent for our Association.' But for the many people in the GAA who would like to see the Open Draw tried out, the occasion of the millennium offers a way around that dreaded word `precedent'. If something is being tried simply to mark the third millennium in history even GAA diehards can hardly scream about precedent. THE GAA has had about 115 All-Ireland championships played on the provincial system. To play just one championship on the Open Draw system could scarcely be described as heresy after all that time. But it would be truly a landmark decision that would most fittingly mark the arrival of the year 2000. Many of the people in this country who would like to see the Open Draw tried out in at least one All-Ireland championship have an open mind as to whether it would necessarily work better than the present system. I myself would be in that category. But so long as we never try the Open Draw the argument can never be adequately debated. There is a standard selection of arguments put forward in the many hypothetical debates on the subject over the years. Those for the Open Draw will claim the following: It is the fairest method as it ensures that, barring replays, there will be no imbalance in the number of games played by different counties. At present a team from Connacht could win the All-Ireland by playing four games while a Leinster team might have to play seven. The Open Draw would make fixture-making much simpler as just three rounds would produce the All-Ireland semi-finalists and all counties would be starting at the same time. Currently some counties play their opening championship game up to TEN WEEKS after others. The Open Draw, with each round drawn after the previous one would add enormous public interest to the championship by providing many unusual pairings, including local derbies between counties from different provinces. Those who want the present system to remain intact until kingdom come will list the following points, among others in their favour: Why change a system that has served the GAA well for over 100 years? It would be wrong to have neighbouring teams from the same province, say Cork-Kerry or Meath-Dublin, meeting in the All-Ireland final. The last two All-Ireland hurling finals, Offaly-Kilkenny and Clare-Tipperary however, have put a huge dent in that particular argument. It would be ridiculous to have possible fixtures like Kerry v Carlow or Meath v Wexford which might emanate from the Open Draw. The biggest obstacle against having the Open Draw is undoubtedly the fear of losing the provincial championships, or more precisely the provincial finals with their revenue- earning capacity. This argument is largely based on finance but is usually well disguised with comments like: `There's nothing to match a Galway-Mayo game in Connacht or a Dublin-Meath game in Leinster, etc, ... BUT there is nothing to say that a Galway-Kerry first round championship game in Tuam would not match Galway v Mayo. Or that a first-round game between Meath and Down in Navan would not be as appealing as a Meath-Dublin game. And certainly the possibility of Kerry, Dublin or Mayo having to travel to play Offaly in Tullamore or even Clare in Ennis in the early rounds of the All-Ireland championship is a scenario that would revolutionise GAA summers. Of course, if the GAA decided to run the 2000 championship on the Open Draw system they would not necessarily have to do away with the provincial championships. When the changes were made in the hurling championship many diehards said that it would be the ruination of the Leinster and Munster championships. Anybody who attended the last couple of Munster hurling finals would hardly agree with that prediction. There was as much skin and hair flying in Thurles in 1998 as there was when Christy Ring was clashing with the `Rattler' Byrne of Tipperary 40 or 50 years ago. So the GAA could have the best of both worlds next year. The provincial championships in May and June followed by the Open Draw All-Ireland championship from July to September. Isn't that a prospect to whet the appetites of sports followers at any time? And nobody would lose face. But could it ever happen? Well, all it takes initially is for some unit of the GAA to put a motion before this year's Annual Congress so that at least the delegates could debate the issue strictly on the basis of it being for the year 2000 only. So is there is a GAA unit out there prepared to allow such a debate to take place? When in the year of the GAA's centenary in 1984 the Centenary Cup was played on the Open Draw basis it was a great success. So much so that when it was run the following year some GAA traditionalists went out of their way to spike it by arranging some ridiculous fixtures and the like. They were afraid the Open Draw idea would catch on.  The question is: are we any more enlightened in the GAA now than we were in the mid eighties? 
