sport gaa
{  
    December 10 2007 09:39 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/other-sports/gaa-digest-gaa-welcomes-agreement-on-awards-to-senior-inter-county-players-27557142.html }
While the deal has yet to be approved by the Dec. meeting of Central Council, it appears that logic and common sense has prevailed.The new scheme will be open to players participating in the Senior Hurling and Football championships ,including the Tommy Murphy Cup, the Christy Ring Cup and the Nicky Rackard Cup. The minister for Arts, Sport and Tourism has committed to provid While the deal has yet to be approved by the Dec. meeting of Central Council, it appears that logic and common sense has prevailed. The new scheme will be open to players participating in the Senior Hurling and Football championships ,including the Tommy Murphy Cup, the Christy Ring Cup and the Nicky Rackard Cup. The minister for Arts, Sport and Tourism has committed to providing 3.5 million euro in 2008. The level of awards to teams will be calculated on a sliding scale, increasing with continuing involvement in the championships. This is consistent with the joint submission made by the G.A.A. and the G.P.A. ,with the approval of Central Council, earlier this year. Payment of these awards is contingent on the G.A.A. and the G.P.A. agreeing standards and criteria with the Irish Sports Council.It will also be subject to Co. Committees, team management and players reps. developing goals and objectives which are agreed by the Irish Sports Council and consistent with G.A.A. policy. The funding for the awards will be made available by the Irish Sports Council through Croke Park to Co. Committees on a squad basis of 30. The funding will be additional to any current or future funding, provided by the Government to the G.A.A. All parties recognise the amateur status of the G.A.A. and nothing in this agreement will undermine the amateur status.The scheme will be administered by a National Committee, comprising player/administrative representatives of the G.A.A. and the G.P.A. Committees to administer the scheme at county level will also be established. The Irish Sports Council has accepted responsibility for monitoring the scheme and will oversee a tri-annual review. Speaking from New York,where he is accompanying the hurling All-Stars on tour, G.A.A. President ,Nicky Brennan expressed satisfaction with the confirmation of the annual awards for inter-county players. He stated: "I am pleased that the issue of recognition for G.A.A. players has been addressed". From a G.A.A. perspective, the President remarked: "The Association’s core concerns had been addressed-the protection of the amateur status,the payment of funds from the Exchequer clearly defined as sports awards and the commitment that G.A.A. funding generally would not be negatively impacted upon in any way ." The G.A.A. President went on to pay tribute to all parties involved in the negotiations and looked forward to further progress on player welfare in the year ahead. It is good to see that these matters of long term contention have been sorted.The G.A.A has made a huge contribution to Irish society over the years. Sometimes this fact has been ignored or taken for granted by the members of the public. I hope that in the wake of last weeks agreement the G.A.A. will continue to play a central role in the sporting and cultural life of our country. Co. G.A.A. Convention. The Co. G.A.A. Convention is due to go ahead in the Sligo Park Hotel on this Tuesday night. By the time you read this it will have concluded. At the time of writing, the likelihood is that there will be a number of changes on the Co. Board Executive Committee.The Co. Sec., Treasurer, Assist.Treasurer and P.R.O. have all served for at least five years,which means that in line with a Congress decision three years ago, they must vacate their positions. There are only nine motions on the Clar, and it was possible that some of them might be referred to the Co. Committee for consideration. Full details of Convention 2007 will be published in next week's issue. Scor na n-Og The Co. semi-finals of Scor na n-Og were held over the weekend and proved very successful. On Saturday afternoon the venue was the Ceolaras in Gurteen while Geevagh hosted the other semi-final on Sunday afternoon.There was a very good entry of club competitors and competitions were of a high standard. Well done to Co. Committee Irish and Cultural officer, Mairead Gonley and Scor Committee officers Catherine Gallagher and Tom Haran, who had everything well organised. A word of thanks also to Fear a Ti Mick Maye. The Co. Finals of Scor na n-Og will be held in Ballymote on Sunday, 6th Jan. next, commencing at 3 p.m. Sympathy Sympathy is extended to the wife and family of the late Gerry Dillon, whose untimely death occurred on Sat. 24th Nov. He was a popular member of Calry/St. Joseph’s G.A.A. club and a great Sligo supporter. Sympathy is also extended to the Gormley family, Achonry on the recent death of Kevin R.I.P. His family have a long association with Coolaney/Mullinabreena G.A.A. Ar dheis De go raibh a n-namnacha. 
