sport gaa
{  
    March 15 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/sport/other-sports/kerry-gaa-scene-27372108.html }
THERE is growing optimism that domestic local sporting action may resume on St Patrick's weekend if Ireland continues to remain Foot and Mouth-free. The 15-day incubation period will have elapsed on Wednesday of this week and that could mean that, specialist advice permitting, we may be able to resume our activities this weekend. Thankfully, early test results on the suspected outbreak in County Tyrone are showing to be negative. If sporting organisations are given the Œgreen light' to resume activities over St Patrick's weekend, then we are hoping here in Kerry, pending the advice from the Veterinary Authorities, to play the minor county leagues as scheduled on Monday, March 19, with all games commencing at 5pm. However, the Munster Colleges finals between Colaiste Na Sceilige and Intermediate School Killorglin and the B Final between Dingle CBS and Tarbert Comprehensive School have been fixed as a double bill at Fitzgerald Stadium, Killarney, on Monday, so some adjustments will have to be made to the minor league fixtures for the games which involve players from the four schools. With the possibility that inter-county games could resume on the weekend of April 1, then the first round of the Lee Strand County Senior Football League could well be brought forward to the weekend of March 25. Traditionally, St Patrick's Day is when the Gaelic world awakens every year and it would be very satisfying if we could recommence our sporting activities on that day. However, this year, we have to act responsibly in the interest of the future well being of the farming community and indirectly the future prosperity of our economy. Public opinion has been mobilized in a way that has not been apparent for quite some time in support of the strict measures which are being undertaken to prevent an outbreak of Foot and Mouth disease in the country. An announcement will be made on Radio Kerry, on Radio na Gaeltachta and on Aertel Page 573 Network 2 to confirm if the games will go ahead this weekend. COUNTY BOARD MEETING: The date of the next meeting of Kerry County Board has been changed from March 26 to Monday, April 2. COACHING: The Pursuit of Excellence has been the aim and principal objective of the Coaching Programme promoted and implemented by the GAA since the mid nineties. Traditionally, the local sports field was the focal point of daily activity for the children and young people of an area, regardless of whether it was urban or rural. It was in the sports field that the skills of football and hurling were learned and practiced during impromptu games with either coats or schoolbags as improvised goalposts. Lifestyles and leisure activities however have changed remarkably over the past two decades. In particular, population and demographic trends is towards the phenomenal expansion in the populations of large urban areas and a dramatic decline in the population of the rural areas. Moreover, there are numerous leisure time pursuits now readily available for young people and playing in the local sports field is no longer the only leisure activity for the young people of an area. Video Games and Arcades, daytime television and a choice of other sports and sports centres are all competing for our young people's leisure time. These trends pose a major challenge to the traditional base and status of the GAA club in the community. The local GAA club must now organise and timetable coaching sessions for their under age teams and conduct them in a way that they find enjoyable and entertaining. The problem of recruiting suitable people to conduct these sessions is also a major headache for clubs at their AGMs every year. Each county board now has a Coaching Officer, who is a full member of the Executive, with responsibility for Coaching and Games Development. Coaching is now seen as having top priority in the GAA and having an officer with full responsibility for coaching in each county is seen as a major step forward in that respect. Liam Sayers was elected Coaching Officer at the County Board Convention last December and clubs are assured of the best advice in developing and implementing coaching programmes. In conjunction with Games Promotion Officers Pat O'Shea and Maurice Leahy, any difficulties which clubs may have with regard to coaching can be addressed. COACHING IN SCHOOLS: In schools, the voluntary work done by the teachers in training and coaching teams at primary and post primary level here in Kerry has to be acknowledged. Cumann na mBunscol do a tremendous voluntary job in the primary schools of the county. At post primary level this year, the Kerry Schools have had outstanding successes. Causeway Comprehensive School won the Munster Vocational Schools Senior A Hurling Final and St Brendan's College, Killarney won Corn Ui Mhorain, the Munster Colleges under 15 Football title. Colaiste na Sceilige and Intermediate School Killorglin are in the final of the Munster Colleges Corn Ui Mhuiri, Dingle CBS and Tarbert Comprehensive School play in the Munster Colleges B Football Final and Causeway Comprehensive School are in the Munster Vocational Schools A Senior Football Final. Last year and in 1999, Tralee CBS won the Munster Colleges Corn Ui Mhuiri title for two successive years. All this success is due in no uncertain manner to the voluntary work done by the teachers in the schools of the county. It is of the utmost importance that each club appoint a liaison officer to take an active interest in the promotion of our games in every school and to give any assistance that is required. SCHOOLS SERVICING OFFICER: Kerry County Board has appointed Peter Twiss from Milltown-Castlemaine as GAA Servicing Officer to the schools in the county. The post is an interim one until the summer holidays. The County Board will put a more formal structure in place in the autumn. His duties will include arranging fixtures, fields and referees for all inter schools competitions. The Munster Council recommended that each county in the province would appoint a school-servicing officer this year and the six appointments have now been made. The purpose of having a servicing officer is to ease the burden of the games teachers in the schools from the very many phone calls that have to be made to arrange fixtures. This work can often be very time consuming and was a constant hassle for the teachers involved, taking into consideration that they are preparing and training the teams in their own spare time and this administrative work often interfered with their teaching duties as well. This initiative is designed to address the decline in GAA activity within the schools sector. This decline can be attributed to many factors, ranging from increased workload on teachers and greater academic demands being placed on students down to competition from other sports and the lack of a suitable games programme within the schools. Initially, the main focus of Peter's work has been with fixtures ‹ finding venues and referees for matches. This has always been a very frustrating and time consuming job for games teachers and, in this regard, his work can have an immediate impact. Obviously, as competitions progress towards finals, he will be concerned with games presentation, match programmes and good media coverage which should in turn help to increase the profile of the games. On the question of finding venues for matches, he has found the response of the clubs very positive and their co-operation is greatly appreciated. As an illustration of this co-operation, the people in charge of the County grounds, Austin Stack Park, Fitzgerald Stadium and Caherslee, have been excellent. An example of this great co-operation was the fact that Patrick O'Sullivan and his Fitzgerald Stadium Committee deferred a major sanding and reseeding job due to take place this month in order to facilitate two major college games. Another area that he is presently working on is organising meetings with individual schools where they can identify problems and come up with possible solutions. Some areas of concern may be localised and easily dealt with, for example, organising coaching courses for teachers or transition year students, while other problems would possibly apply across the board affecting all schools. From school meetings that he has attended so far, the need for getting people to come into the schools to help out with the coaching is a big issue. He will certainly do his best to address all these needs and, where he is unable to solve problems on his own, he will be highlighting what needs to be done to the relevant GAA bodies. Speaking to a teacher last week, Peter was informed that up to 50 per cent of the players on some school teams are not attached to or play with any club. This shows the huge challenge facing the GAA in its efforts to increase participation in our games and to make the GAA even more vibrant and relevant to the younger generation. If Peter's work as servicing officer can help to achieve that, it will indeed be worthwhile. COACHING COURSES: Cumann Luthchleas Gael has developed a series of coach education programmes aimed at improving the standard of coaching given to hurlers and footballers, particularly at underage level. These programmes have been implemented and continue to be implemented in Kerry. All GAA coaches are now expected to have a qualified coaching qualification. A recognised coaching qualification will only be granted to coaches who participate in official courses. The Foundation Level course is primarily aimed at personnel involved with coaching from Under 12 upwards. All coaches, provided they are over the age of 16, must commence by taking the Foundation Level course. Having successfully completed a Foundation Level course, and provided participants are 18 years or older, coaches can then advance to the Level 1 course. Coaches who are involved in preparing teenage / adult teams for competition, would be strongly advised to advance to the Level 1 course. Having successfully completed the Level 1 course and filled in the Level 1 Logbook, coaches can then advance to the Level 2 course. The same principle applies to coaches who advance to Level 3 and Level 4 courses. Participants will receive a Certificate when they successfully complete each stage of the coach education programme. A panel of experienced tutors, who have received specialist-training, conduct all Coach Education courses. The Coach Education programme is geared at the following: GAA Clubs, Primary Schools, Second Level Schools, with particular emphasis on a Transition Year programme and Third Level Colleges, particularly those geared at teacher training. COACHING CD-ROM: GAA coaching is set for a technological overhaul. At the national coaching forum, held in Croke Park last November, it was announced that a new CD-Rom training manual will soon be formally launched. "Interactive and e-learning is the future," said Pat Daly, the GAA's Games Manager. Certainly, the production of the electronic manual marks yet another way in which the country's largest sporting body is embracing new technologies and methods. The main aim of the CD-Rom is to engender a more balanced approach to coaching. "We are trying to counter the over-emphasis on physical preparation. It's a matter of getting the balance right," continued Pat Daly. "On disc, you see the animations of the various correct techniques and you can go through it sequentially. It is possible to click on the appropriate level. In essence, this is broken down into playing, moving and the recreation of decision-making in game situations." Leading GAA coach and current Donegal manager, Mickey Moran, devised the advanced drills featured on the disc. Video clips will be used to illustrate the correct techniques. As a result, there will be two separate discs, one for football and one for hurling, because of the amount of space these video clips use up. The project has attracted interested people from as far afield as Sweden. Delegates at a virtual education conference held in the Scandinavian country were fascinated by what they see as a model for a lot of other sports worldwide. COMPUTERS AND THE GAA: The computer and the Internet are part of our day to day lives now and gradually the GAA in Kerry is embracing the new technology at both county, district board and club levels. A number of clubs have their own websites up and running for over a year now such as Cromane, Dromid Pearses, Kilmoyley, Kilcummin, Fossa, Causeway, Templenoe, An Ghaeltacht and Ballymac Handball. Recently Dr Crokes, Austin Stacks and Ballymacelligott Football have gone on line. These developments are an indication of how the Internet can be used as a means of communication for club activities such as forthcoming fixtures, results, match reports, team photos and the playing panels of the club's teams, from senior down to underage. It is a great way of keeping our exiles in touch with the local news and the websites also have links to other sites of particular interest to the area. The Kerry GAA Website at http://kerry.gaa.ie, designed and maintained by Eoin O'Sullivan, is continuing to expand its range as well as keeping the regular information that has proved so popular up to date. Most of the above club sites can be accessed by downloading a link from the Kerry Website. The computer is fast becoming an essential item in the development of club administration and quite a number of club officers throughout the county are quite familiar with its club administration potential. Club records such as membership, data on the team panels, fixtures dates, financial records and transactions as well as reports, minutes, correspondence, posters and e-mail facility are easily handled by the computer. For those not familiar with the computer, there is nothing to fear. All it takes is practice and slowly but surely the skills will develop and using the keyboard and the mouse will become easier than the traditional pen and paper. Files and filing drawers will be replaced by the much tidier and easier to store floppy disc as well as being stored in the memory of the computer itself. The modern computer is user friendly and once the basic skills have been acquired the user can progress at their own pace to further develop their computer skills and be able to explore and experiment the full potential of the new technology. 
