sport gaa
{ Eugene McGee 
    December 23 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/fanatical-minority-need-to-get-things-in-proportion-26025048.html }
AS THE year comes to its usual dribbling end in GAA terms with a provincial final being played just as Santa Claus is harnessing his reindeer, it gives those of us who are non-participants a chance to study how the GAA takes over the lives of many people. After all, it is still in theory at least an amateur sport, yet the lives of thousands of Irish people are so interminably tied into GAA affairs that you could be forgiven for thinking the GAA is a religious cult and not a mere sports body. Maybe it is because no organisation in any field of human activity that I know of has as many officers as the GAA. Starting with the clubs we have the President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, Irish Officer, County Board delegate and PRO at the very least. This is repeated in the separate minor club attached to the senior club (by doing things that way GAA clubs get more All-Ireland tickets than if they were all under the aegis of just one club). When we move onto the County Board all these officerships are replicated with several more thrown in such as Central Council delegate, Provincial Council delegates, Coaching Officer, Youth Officer, County team liaison officer, and in some counties several other titles. The provincial councils have another string of officers, as have all the bodies controlling other aspects of the GAA such as the primary schools, secondary schools and the third level institutions. Even the Prison Officers have their own GAA committee, as have the Factories League, not to mention the Over 40s or the Psychiatric Hospitals GAA committee. I could go on and on but I think readers have got my drift. In many larger counties you have Divisional Boards with their replica set of officers too. And when you look at Croke Park itself you find hundreds of people on various committees appointed by each incoming GAA president many of whom are simply being rewarded for their efforts in helping that particular president get elected. So one thing the GAA is not short of is democracy. Indeed there are many who claim that democracy is the curse of the organisation. Be that as it may, the fact remains that there are over 40,000 people running around this country at any one time who can claim to be officers of the GAA. The vast majority of these are what can be called sleeping officers in that they never wanted the jobs they have in the first place but were somehow corralled into taking them and they have absolutely no intention of doing any work for the GAA because they have no interest in doing so. That means of course that in every club, county board and other GAA unit the majority of the so-called officers are 'sleepers', leaving the minority to run the show. These are the fanatics of the GAA, people whose whole life is consumed by matters relating to Cumann Luthchleas Gael and who eat, drink and sleep GAA from one end of the week to the other. These people never worry about the value of the euro, the state of the country's finances, the price of cattle or even what David Beckham has for his breakfast. None of these things impinge on the claustrophobic GAA world they inhabit, built around GAA matches, GAA meetings and GAA phone calls. They have few necessities in life but included in the few are Fox's Glacier Mints to help them sit through boring committee meetings 'til all hours of the night. Most are pioneers, which saves them having to worry about meetings finishing up before closing time. There are thousands of these people in the GAA and many would claim they actually are the backbone of the organisation. They certainly firmly believe that themselves and look with disgust on lesser mortals who ever question their modus operandi or their motives. These people really believe that ownership of the GAA in their area belongs to them and while 'outsiders' may be tolerated they really don't know what they are talking about when it comes to serious GAA matters and can easily be ignored. Not surprisingly, officers like these tend to remain in office for a long time ... a very long time in most cases. They regard the description 'long-serving' as a badge of GAA greatness because that means they have successfully disposed of several upstarts in their time who tried to oust them. Generally that is not too difficult a task for the simple reason that most normal GAA people, while they may have a very strong interest in and loyalty to the GAA, have a life outside that body. The fanatical officers do not. They may have jobs and families but all that sort of thing is only a way of filling in the time between GAA matches and meetings. The majority of GAA members can accept that GAA activity is merely one sporting hobby to be fitted in among other components of modern life such as social activities, other sporting interests, family life, holidays, further education, career advancement and the like. The GAA fanatics generally keep a low profile because they have no need to go public. They are content to retain a vice-like grip on their own particular GAA fiefdom, be it club, county or province, and keep infidels at bay for as long as they can. But at this time of year we hear from the fanatics through club and county AGMs where they often produce reports in which they chastise the media particularly 'that crowd up in Dublin', and attack any new developments or proposals such as the GPA, the notion of soccer in Croke Park or doing away with provincial championships. They used to also tell us every year that 'drink was the curse of the GAA' until the GAA accepted the Guinness sponsorship leaving them in a rather embarrassing position. These GAA officers are extremely bored at this time of year. While most other people are enjoying the Christmas break they are pining for a GAA match to go to, or a committee meeting to attend, because that is their staff of life. The idea of a GAA close season in December and January is heretical to them which is why you will often hear them preaching that the GAA is handing over the sports scene to 'other codes' as if suddenly thousands of GAA players were going to desert to soccer or rugby. Thankfully the players, like the vast majority of GAA followers and quite a few saner officials, have a sense of proportion about their GAA involvement. Sure, it's great to be involved with the GAA and life would be so much duller without it. But there ARE other things in life apart from football and hurling and this time of year only emphasises that. And while the fanatics may be suffering withdrawal symptoms for these few weeks, for most GAA people Christmas is a great chance to take a complete break and recharge the batteries for another great season of football and hurling in 2003. PS I would like to extend a hearty Happy Christmas to all readers, but particularly the many people who during the past year sent me e-mails on GAA topics from all parts of the world. You are good examples of what the GAA means to so many Irish people without being fanatical about it. eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
