sport gaa
{ Martin Breheny 
    July 19 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/end-of-an-era-as-mulvihill-departs-gaas-leading-role-26305621.html }
WHEN the then president Con Murphy told Liam Mulvihill that he was the unanimous choice of the Appointments Board to become the new GAA's new director-general, the 33-year-old school inspector asked how long he had to make up his mind. "About 10 minutes," replied Murphy. "I'll take it so," said Mulvihill. That was back in early 1979 and shortly afterwards Mulvihill ended his stint with the Department of Education to embark on a career as the administrative head of the world's largest amateur sporting organisation. Over 28 years later, he has announced his intention to step down, bringing to an end an era which has seen more change in the GAA than at any time previously. He will remain in office until his successor is appointed, probably early next year after an exhaustive trawl through what will be a lengthy list of applicants from the business and sporting communities. Clearly a close alignment with both will be a major advantage. An assessment of Mulvihill's legacy has to be undertaken in the context of a rapidly-altering Ireland and the challenges facing the GAA as an organisation running indigenous sports in a small country on the western tip of Europe. Repeatedly over the years, there were claims that the GAA would lose its place in a society which was becoming increasingly influenced by global sporting attractions such as soccer and rugby. However, despite the peddlers of gloom, the GAA has not only succeeded in retaining its place at the heart of the Irish community but in actually enhancing it, especially over the last decade when the redevelopment of Croke Park, the abolition of Rule 21, the reconfiguration of the All-Ireland championships and increased attendances have all added to the Association's vibrancy. The GAA also faced a special difficulty during the Troubles in the Six Counties, one that required sensitive handling and carefully thought-out positioning so as not to be dragged into the conflict. Rule 21, the controversial edict which prevented members of the RUC and British Army from joining the GAA, and the occupation by the British Army of Crossmaglen GAA ground were constant sources of controversy, but, in the end, both were resolved. First steps Joe McDonagh's presidency saw the first steps being taken towards the abolition of Rule 21, which was later negotiated into oblivion under Seán McCague. Mulvihill's role in those delicate discussions was hugely important but then attention to detail was always one of his trademarks. As the GAA's chief operations officer, Mulvihill has been at the heart of everything that happened in the Association since 1979. He did it in a most unobtrusive way, maintaining a relatively low profile, certainly by comparison with his many counterparts in the FAI, some of whom had barely warmed their chairs before moving - or being moved - on. Mulvihill represented a much more stable presence, one in which he saw his role to oversee policy as drawn up by Congress and Central Council. The redevelopment of Croke Park was always going to be a major project and while Mulvihill might have appeared rather conservative in some ways, he was bullish about the absolute need to keep ahead of the stadium game. He could be very cunning too. I once conducted an interview with him in which he suggested that the GAA should consider moving to a green-field site if the problems of acquiring the necessary property to redevelop Croke Park continued. The GAA membership suffered a collective fit at the prospect of deserting its spiritual home but Mulvihill knew exactly what he was doing as the mere mention of an alternative stadium elsewhere brought a more realistic approach to property prices around Croke Park. Luckily for the GAA, Peter Quinn was elected GAA president at a time when the redevelopment plan was being floated to a sceptical membership. Quinn's financial vision and clout, allied to Mulvihill's energy and passion for the grand design, provided the project the launch for one of the greatest GAA adventures. If Mulvihill was an enthusiastic supporter of redeveloping Croke Park to top-of-the-range specifications, he showed no such enthusiasm for opening it to rugby and soccer. In fact, he never expressed an opinion either way, insisting it was a matter for GAA members to make up their own minds, although those who know him well would claim that his instincts would have been against opening it, certainly on a long-term basis. That left former president Seán Kelly as the main driving force behind the successful move to amend Rule 42. While Mulvihill always saw his role as carrying out the GAA membership's instructions rather than instructing them what to do, he certainly wasn't afraid to express controversial views or offer new ideas. His annual report was the most common platform for those. Unfortunately, most of them were never debated in any meaningful way as Congress tended to skip past them, usually because his report was dealt with on a Friday night at a time when delegates were keeping one eye on the clock in case too much refreshment time was taken up. However, it was noticeable that quite a few of Mulvihill's ideas resurfaced at a later stage, underlining his patient approach. There is no comparison between the GAA that Mulvihill signed onto as director-general and the organisation he is about to exit. Facilities, games development programmes, exposure and expansion were much lower down the agenda, but then economically Ireland was much worse off all those years ago. Crowds at even major GAA games were low enough in the early 1980s for Mulvihill to suggest playing the two All-Ireland football semi-finals on the same Sunday. Such a scenario would be unheard of in these exciting days when games are big events rather than mere sporting contests. For over quarter of a century of remarkable advancement, Mulvihill was the GAA's main driver in a direction which he - and many others - charted. Presidents and various other senior officials changed but Mulvihill motored on, carefully when required, although quite prepared to put the boot down if the opportunity arose. And all the time, the GAA knew it was in safe hands - a fitting tribute to a man whose name will reverberate around Croke Park for many years to come. BORN: Fenagh, Longford AGE: 61 EDUCATED: St Mel's, Longford; St Patrick's College, Drumcondra, UCD, Maynooth, UCG. CAREER: School teacher; School inspector; GAA director-general. PLAYING CAREER: All-Ireland Colleges with St el's; Played with Longford in all grades. ADMINISTRATIVE CAREER: Appointed Longford chairman at the age of 24 in 1970; later became Central Council delegate. Appointed GAA director-general 1979. OTHER DISTINCTIONS: Appointed to various State Bodies including RTÉ Authority; Bord na Gaeilge; Irish Sports Council; Sports Campus Ireland. FAMILY: Married to Máire; three children (Darainne, Aonghus, Fionán) 
