sport gaa
{  
    November 12 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/soccer/gurteen-ladies-bid-for-soccer-cup-glory-27547454.html }
Having negotiated a hazardous journey to the final, Gurteen Celtic ladies will be hoping to complete their campaign by lifting the Mayo Womens League Cup at Milebush Park, Castlebar, on Sunday next. Gurteen's opposition will be provided by Ballina Town, the surprise team of Mayo soccer who have reached the Cup final in their first year in existence. There will be huge Sligo interest in the final as the Ballina squad includes three players from the Yeats County, Jacqueline Mulligan, Imelda McNulty and Arlene Tempany. And just to prove that sporting ecumenism is alive and well in ladies sport, a number of players from both sides are accomplished Gaelic footballers, many of whom featured on the Sligo squad which reached the All-Ireland junior semi-finals this summer.  Tough clash A feature of Gurteen's march to the final is that they won all of their games away from home. They started with a tough clash against Ballinrobe. Two games were needed to resolve the issue with Gurteen eventually going through on penalties. Aileen Connolly and Cathy Killoran were on target for the Sligo side in a 2-2 draw with Mary Hannon, Grainne O'Gara, Deirdre Coleman and Stella Feeney converting spot kicks in the penalty shoot out. The next round presented Gurteen with an even tougher challenge and they had to pull out all the stops to edge out Straide and Foxford on a 2-1 scoreline. Emer Casey was the hero of the day with two goals. Emer was the matchwinner again in the semi-final, clinching the only goal of the game away to Castlebar.  Better luck this time The result put Gurteen into the final for the second year in a row. Last season, they lost the decider 2-0 to Knock/Kiltimagh so they will be hoping for better luck on this occasion. The Gurteen team comprises players from Sligo, Roscommon and Mayo. Team manager, Stephen McCoy explains: "As the soccer season in Mayo is played during the summer, we find that a large squad is required to maintain a panel for every game. Holidays, injuries, commitments to representative teams, underage soccer, GAA and other sports, mean that the women have a hectic schedule but at least through rotating players in the squad, we can always put out a strong team" Ballina's Jacqueline Mulligan is very familiar with the strength of the Gurteen team. She plays with Gurteen duo, Emer Tansey and Katrina Connolly on the Sligo IT soccer team and was a team mate of Katrina, Louise Brett, Aisling McTiernan and Angela Lavin on the Sligo GAA team this year. "It will be strange playing against girls who have been team mates with the IT and the Sligo GAA team but I'm really looking forward to it", says Jacqueline.  Experience "Gurteen have a lot of experience in their side while we are playing in the Cup final for the first time. Gurteen will start as favourites but we feel we can give them a good game if we play up to our best form. "It would be a great boost for the club if we could win the Cup in our first season and we're looking forward to what promises to be a great occasion", she adds. Jacqueline, a native of Templeboy, plays up front for Ballina and has been one of the side's top scorers this season. Imelda McNulty has had a great season at midfield for the Mayo club while Arlene Tempany brings valuable versatility to the squad, having played in goals and as a striker during the course of the season. KATRINA CONNOLLY. Goalkeeper. Top keeper who has represented Ireland at senior level. Just back from Korea where she played for the Irish colleges team in the colleges World Cup. Great presence and takes control of the last third of the pitch has a lengthy kick out and dependable when advancing off her line. Lines out for Sligo I.T. Previous Club P.S.O. Sligo/Leitrim League Cup winner 1999. GAA Club St.Nathys JOANNE LYONS. Goalkeeper. First year with the club and has had excellent season. Brave confident goalkeeper, excellent shot stopper who gets better with every game. GAA Club Shamrock Gaels AMANDA TANSEY. Goalkeeper. A u-16 player Amanda has played in almost every position this season. A versatile player who came up through the under age ranks at the club and made her mark in goals but is equally adept with the ball at her feet. GAA Club Eastern Harps DEIDRE COLEMAN. Defender. Competitive player who has adapted to defence after playing most of her soccer as a striker .A long serving player who is technically one of the best players on the team. Sligo Leitrim Cup Winner 1998, League Winner 1999. GAA Club Ballymote AISLING FRIZZELL. Defender. Promising U-16 player who consistently gives opponents little chance to get into the game, also confident going forward. GAA Club St.Nathys EDEL CRYAN Defender.U-18 player with a strong presence on the pitch. Determined and fearless when attacking the ball. GAA Club Eastern Harps AMANDA TYRELL. Defender. U-16 player who is strong in the air, good ball winner on the ground and is very competitive. Member of Connacht U-16 team Gaynor Cup Winners 2003.GAA Club Kilmovee Shamrocks SARAH TYRELL. Defender. Athletic U 16 player with pace and great attitude to go with her skill. Always gives 100%. Member of Connacht U-16 team Gaynor Cup Winners 2003 GAA Club Kilmovee Shamrocks PAULA O DOWD Defender Dominant Central Defender who generally wins out against the opposition strikers. Always a threat at set pieces. Sligo Leitrim Cup Winner 1998, League Winner 1999. Previous Club Arrow Harps. GAA Club Shamrock Gaels JACINTA MURRIN Defender Influential player who has had an excellent season. Consistant, good in the air and a strong tackler. Previous Club Arrow Harps. GAA Club Shamrock Gaels MARY HANNON. Defender. Team Captain .Missed the last few seasons but back playing as well as ever with her two supporters daughters Niamh and Rachel. One of the founder members of the club. An excellent organiser who reads the game well. Sligo Leitrim Cup Winner 1998, League Winner 1999. GAA Club Eastern Harps SARAH MAYE Defender U –16 player from Tubbercurry who has not put a foot wrong since joining during the year. A great prospect, two good feet, good header of the ball, always an eye for a pass and plenty of enthusiasm for the game. PAULA WALSH. DefenderU-16 One of our best players this season. Strong inspirational player who is composed on the ball and is equally at home playing on the left or right side. Hopefully recovered from injury. GAA Club Eastern Harps SHARON KILCOYNE Defender. Strong, determined and constructive defender who is excellent crosser of the ball. GAA Club Ballymote EMER TANSEY. Midfield. Very competitive player who enjoys taking on opponents. Always a danger in the air at set pieces and a constant worry to opposing defences. Lines out for Sligo I.T. GAA. Previous Club Ballaghderreen. G.A.A. Club Kilmovee Shamrocks GRAINNE O'GARA. Midfield. A player with great energy and attitude who always gives 100%. Covers a lot of ground and has every quality required for a midfield player. Sligo Leitrim Cup Winner 1998, League Winner 1999. GAA Club Eastern Harps ANGELA LAVIN Midfield Usually plays a holding role in the centre of the field although carries a threat going forward. An ever-present player who can distribute the ball well. Sligo Leitrim Cup Winner 1998, League Winner 1999. GAA Club Eastern Harps AILEEN CONNOLLY Midfield An U –16 player who has played in every game since joining during the season. A strong player with an eye for goal she is an excellent striker of the ball especially off her left foot. GAA Club St.Nathys AISLING McTIERNAN Midfield Another player who joined this season and is improving with every game. Strong eager player who gets up and down the pitch and always looks to be constructive when on the ball. Excellent ball winner. GAA Club Cloonacool CIARA MULRENNAN Midfield. First year with the club from Ballaghaderreen a hard working player who tackles well and has a good touch. Does not give opponents time on the ball. SARAH McMORROW Midfield. Determined U-16 player who made her debut in goals saving a penalty. Good knowledge of the game to go with her skill. One to watch for the future. GAA Club Ballymote FIONA MULHEARN. Midfield Intelligent hard working player who can open up a defence. Previous Club Arrow Harps. GAA Club Shamrock Gaels NOELLE GORMLEY Midfield. Versatile player with great potental. Can dominate the midfield area.Unfortunate with injuries this season. GAA Club St. Nathys MOYA PARKE. Midfield. Experienced player who has played with clubs in England and the U.S. High work rate great control but season shortened due to injuries. EILEEN GALLAGHER Striker. Founder member of the club who plays the centre forward role so well. Excellent with her back to the goal holding and distributing the ball. Great delivery from set pieces and one of the best strikers of the ball in the women’s game. Sligo Leitrim Cup Winner 1998, League Winner 1999. GAA Club Eastern Harps EMER CASEY Striker A match winner with pace who has always scored goals for the club. Missed the last two seasons with a cruciate knee injury but is now back to her best. Sligo Leitrim Cup Winner 1998, League Winner 1999. GAA Club Ballinameen. CATHY KILLORAN Striker U-16 player from Bunninadden who likes the ball at her feet. Deceptively fast and a good finisher when the chance arises. LINDA HANNAN Striker U-18 player who is a natural goal scorer. Always looks to be constructive on the ball. GAA Club Eastern Harps STELLA FEENEY Striker. U-16 Very effective link player with an eye for a pass. Great technique when performing the skills of the game and on her day can be a match winning influence on the game. Member of Connacht U-16 team Gaynor Cup Winners 2003 GAA Club Eastern Harps LOUISE BRETT Striker U-18 Highly Rated player who is on the verge of international recognition. Trained with the U-19s Irish team during the summer. Excellent passer with great vision and good control. Can also be relied upon to find the net on a regular basis. Member of Connacht U-18 team 2003 GAA Club Cloonacool 
