sport gaa
{  
    April 16 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/the-dawning-of-a-brave-new-world-of-sport-26207319.html }
JEROME REILLY and CIARAN BYRNE THE GAA dramatically swept away more than a century of tradition last night to clear the way for international soccer and rugby to be played at its flagship Croke Park HQ in Dublin. The historic decision to allow other sports use the stadium was taken in a secret ballot at the GAA's annual congress and was carried by 227 votes to 97. The vote came after a day of high drama and months of political manoeuvring among modernisers to force the GAA to open the gates of their state-of-the-art facility. The Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, last night said it was a "historic and momentous day for Irish sport". In particular, he welcomed "the democratic process which took place within the GAA and allowed all members to be part of the decision". Irish sports fans everywhere can now look forward to the once unthinkable prospect of watching Ireland's soccer and rugby captains Roy Keane and Brian O'Driscoll taking to the Croke Park turf. While the decision is, in itself, highly significant, it is only the first, albeit most difficult, obstacle to be overcome. GAA administrators may now make the cost of playing in Croke Park in 2007 prohibitive for the IRFU and the FAI. Both organisations last night gave the decision a cautious response, saying that despite the vote, all options to host fixtures would be explored. A spokesman for the FAI said: "While decisions relating to our home games due to take place when Lansdowne Road is under re-development are some way off, we welcome the fact that Croke Park may become available at that time." In a statement the IRFU said: "We have always stated that during the proposed re-development of Lansdowne Road we would investigate options of temporary accommodation, both inside and outside the country, taking account of the logistical and commercial perspectives." Last week, former GAA president Peter Quinn, who strongly advocated against amending Rule 42, spoke of charging ?1m, maybe ?2m, per game to allow the rival sports organisations avail of the new stadium. Tanaiste Mary Harney was the first politician to welcome the decision. She said: "It is a positive and progressive development." She also paid tribute to outgoing GAA president, Sean Kelly. Arts, Sports and Tourism Minister John O'Donoghue said the decision was a hugely significant gesture, which will benefit all Irish sporting fans in ensuring the way is open to accommodate forthcoming important international soccer and rugby fixtures on Irish soil. For now there is at least the real possibility of a ?100m boost to the Irish economy which faced losing Irish soccer internationals and Six Nations rugby matches to British venues while Lansdowne Road is being redeveloped. The decision also guarantees hundreds of part-time jobs for those involved in rugby and soccer, particularly on match days. ANALYSIS: Bertie Ahern - an acknowledged GAA supporter who once also played soccer with his own local Drumcondra club in the shadow of Croke Park - had insisted, on the eve of the historic congress, that a temporary opening of the stadium to other sports was not only in the interests of Gaelic games but also in the national interest of other sports. The Government has given the GAA ?110m towards the reconstruction of Croke Park. As well as delegates from all 32 counties, the congress brought GAA administrators from all over the world. Across the Atlantic, four delegates were told to vote to throw open the gates of the GAA HQ. But New York's six delegates were ordered to retain the status quo. Before the vote it looked as though just Ulster, Monaghan and Cork were going to vote against the motion proposed by Sligo delegate Ciaran McDermott. The tallymen and seasoned observers were predicting a vote too close to call. The tension was palpable as the debate began just after lunch with a low-key introduction by GAA president Sean Kelly Those championing the change wanted an open vote because they felt that delegates might ignore the wishes of their counties if given the opportunity to vote in secret. One of the worries of delegates who spoke against the motion was fears of hooliganism and the cost of putting in security measures to segregate fans especially for soccer internationals. But if the security implications outweigh the financial advantages to the GAA Central Council they can reject the approach to stage a match. Senator Tom Morrissey, Chairperson of the Progressive Democrat Parliamentary Party, has welcomed the GAA's decision to open Croke Park in certain circumstances as a victory for common sense. "The Progressive Democrats have never hidden our position on this matter, believing that the funding of the Croke Park with taxpayers' money should be contingent on Rule 42 being relaxed. "However, in recent months the party has given the GAA and its members the space and time to carry out internal consultation," said Senator Morrissey. "I now believe we should applaud GAA members for responding in a very practical way." "As a party who encourage economic growth we did not want to see Irish jobs undermined by exporting the Irish tourist trade to the UK. And as a Republican party we did not want to see a situation where teams representing the Irish nation had to tog out on Welsh soil." Labour Party sports spokesman Jack Wall "warmly welcomed" the GAA's decision. "The delegates have shown a great spirit of generosity and done a service not just to other sporting organisations, but the country itself. "It is, of course, absolutely proper that the Association's own games should continue to receive priority but I hope that it will now be possible to accommodate major internationals for the period of Lansdowne's refurbishment and avoid what would have been an embarrassing situation for everyone," he said. Continuing the rout of GAA traditionalists, the new GAA president is Kilkenny man, Nickey Brennan, who defeated rival Cork's Christy Cooney, who had opposed the amendment of Rule 42. 
