sport gaa
{  
    April 02 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/nothing-sacred-as-cash-the-gaa-king-26387626.html }
NOT many GAA people know this, I suspect, but on the Business Programme on RTE Radio at 8.30, am on Saturday morning last (8.30) there was a story about the GAA selling the naming rights to Croke Park. Former Dublin All-Ireland winner Robbie Kelleher, who is now one of the senior partners in Davy Stockbrokers, was a guest on John Murray's programme. He told us that their was a sub-committee sitting on the matter in Croke Park for some time and he speculated that it would be a foreign company which would pay the highest price to have their name attached to the famous stadium. Kelleher pointed out that because of the staging of rugby and soccer internationals there in 2007, the naming rights of Croke Park would be much more valuable since the stadium would have a world-wide television audience far in excess of what would normally be there for GAA matches. He also speculated that a foreign company with Irish interests would be most likely and mused on various companies who might pay the highest price for the naming rights and the subsequent name-change involved such as Páirc Tesco, Páirc Uí Sainsbury, Páirc Vodafone, etc. I had to leave the programme at that stage but later, on noting the date on the top of my Irish Independent last Saturday was April 1, I put two and two together and reckoned it was all an April Fool spoof. But it shows how times have changed in the GAA that I could not be certain of this either. Just about every asset attached to GAA activity has been prepared for the market and sold to the highest bidder over the past 30 years or so, as has happened with other sports organisations around the world. Pitch side advertising, commercial sponsorship of competitions and the All Stars scheme, jersey advertising, sale of television and radio rights, concerts on GAA grounds and a raft of other commercial transactions built on the games and the players. So, it would not now be a major shock if the GAA did indeed decide to sell the name of Croke Park to a commercial concern. After all Kingspan director Brendan Murtagh who is a former Cavan star half-back has already paid handsomely to have the famous old stadium in Cavan called Kingspan Breffni Park, so the trend has already been set. Of course, any proposal to dilute the name of Dr Croke on the GAA's headquarters would evoke trenchant opposition from the usual sources in the GAA, but not to the same extent as one might think. The reality is that most of the biggest changes which have taken place in the GAA in modern times have been influenced by money. I can still visualise the many GAA Presidents I have seen making speeches at Congress including comments like "we will never see the day that sponsors' ribbons will be attached to the Sam Maguire or Liam McCarthy Cups.' In those days the notion of selling your soul to a commercial sponsor was alien to the strictly amateur GAA and reserved for those other sports who lacked the nationalistic fervour and public-spirited attitude of Cumann Luthcleas Gael. How times change and how money talks! A glance at the booklet prepared for Congress delegates in a couple of weeks time proves this. It needs 35 of the 136 pages in the booklet to deal with the GAA's financial transactions during 2005. Everywhere you look the figures are massive whether it be gate receipts at major games, operating surpluses or expenses paid out to counties. Everywhere you look the figures are massive whether it be gate receipts at major games, operating surpluses or expenses paid out to counties For example under 'Team's expenses and Finalists Grants' Tyrone received a staggering ?178,428 last year from the GAA, Kerry got ?160,460 and Galway got a whopping ?215,040 and Cork, the richest county in the GAA kingdom got ?230,839. Who said success does not pay financially in the GAA then? Of course, as in every other aspect of Irish life today, there is blatant inequality in the GAA also. Cavan for example got a paltry ?8,580 in expenses, Fermanagh just ?21,912 and Leitrim ?21,180. The GAA's Central Council took n ?5,370,831 from Media Coverage and ?2,310,498 from sponsorship. And despite all the criticism about what the government is not doing for the GAA, there is a figure of ?3,590,000 in Irish Sports Council Grants to the GAA purely for Games Development as opposed to capital development on grounds, etc. Needless to say, the gate receipts for the two All-Ireland finals were massive at ?3,744,540 for the Tyrone-Kerry game and ?3,600,950 for the Cork-Galway hurling final, which was actually a decline of ?55,026 from the 2004 final. It is intriguing to guess why the the receipts for the football final were ?143,590 greater than the hurling final considering there was such a mad scramble for tickets for the Cork-Galway game . An interesting expenditure item is a figure of ?151,754 for the Interprovincial Series - otherwise known as the Railway Cups. Playing one of the finals abroad accounts for the bulk of this figure and many will query whether that is money well spent. Incidentally, I wonder does the GPA consider that figure as money spent on their members by the GAA? It is also interesting to note that while Teams Expenses and Finalists Grants have increased from ?1 million to ?2.5 million between 2001 and 2005, the figure paid out by Central Council for Capital Development has in the same period shrunk from almost ?7 million to a little over ?3 million. While the majority of financial figures in this report are astonishingly large there are also some salutary lessons for the GAA in the listed attendance's from senior championship games in hurling and football. There were 218 at SHC qualifier Dublin v Offaly; 571 at SFC qualifier Louth v Waterford; 750 at SHC qualifier Galway v Antrim; 1,000 (nice round figure that !) for the Dublin v Laois SHC match; 1,322 at Galway v Laois SHC qualifier; 1,500 at a SHC game between Down and London; 2,379 for Munster SFC Clare v Waterford; 3,865 at Ulster SFC replay Antrim v Cavan. It is important to study these figures lest anybody fall for the assumption that in the GAA a rising tide lifts all boats. Obviously there are still many boats holed below the waterline. This week the GAA will announce the allocation of names to various sections of the New Croke Park including a long overdue recognition for the greatest PR person the GAA ever had, Michael O'Hehir. How long will it be before the big announcement about a new name for Croke Park itself is forthcoming? FOOTNOTE: For the first time ever yesterday a Longford football team played a Leinster final in their own Pearse Park, but they did not have the fire-power to grab enough scores when on top. So, Laois took the Leinster U-21 title after a game that was low enough in quality but at least provided a tense finish as Laois came from 0-6 to 0-7 down to win 0-9 to 0-7. Referee Cormac Reilly from Meath underwent a half-time transformation, for while he blew everything remotely like a foul in the first half, after the break he hardly blew at all. Laois should have won by three points as Colm Kelly had a point waved wide in the second half. This time I don't even need video replays because I was standing directly behind the goal and it WAS a point. Some things never change in the GAA. 
