china
{ By James Mills for MailOnline   Published:  09:35, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041259/Rush-Limbaugh-claims-deadly-coronavirus-weaponized-China-tank-economy.html }
Rush Limbaugh claims the coronavirus is being 'weaponized' by the Chinese government to damage the US economy and bring down Donald Trump but is 'no worse than the common cold'. The conservative radio host said the deadly virus was created in a Chinese government laboratory and was being used to 'scare people in business' and crash the stock market. Limbaugh, 69, said on his podcast show yesterday: 'It looks like the coronavirus is being weaponized as yet another element to bring down Donald Trump. 'I want to tell you the truth about the coronavirus, the coronavirus is the common cold, folks.' He added: 'I'm not trying to get you to let your guard down. Nobody wants to get any of this stuff. I mean, you never, I hate getting the common cold. 'You don't want to get the flu. It's miserable. 'But we're not talking about something here that's gonna wipe out your town or your city if it finds its way there. 'I'm telling you, the ChiComs are trying to weaponize this thing. The ChiComs obviously in their lab are doing something here with the coronavirus, and it got out.' The coronavirus has now claimed more than 2,600 lives and the number of cases worldwide has soared above 80,000 with the World Health Organization (WHO) warning the world is on the brink of a 'pandemic.' President Trump insisted yesterday that coronavirus is under control in the US as the White House sent lawmakers an urgent $2.5 billion plan to address the deadly worldwide outbreak. Trump also reassured Americans via Twitter that the stock market is 'starting to look very good to me,' despite the Dow's 1,000 point plummet, for which coronavirus fears have been widely blamed.  Limbaugh, who was given the Medal of Freedom by the President Trump at the State of the Union this month after announcing he had lung cancer, said the motive for spreading fear of the virus was to damage business. He said the Chinese government wanted to 'scare the investors, to scare people in business, to scare people into not buying Treasury bills at auctions and to scare people into leaving, cashing out of the stock market.' He said: 'It came from a country that Bernie Sanders wants to turn the United States into a mirror image of, Communist China. That's where it came from.  'It didn't come from an American lab. It didn't escape from an American research lab. It hasn't been spread by Americans. Chinese scientists believe the coronavirus may have started life in a research facility just 300 yards from the Wuhan fish market. A new paper from the Beijing-sponsored South China University of Technology says the Wuhan Center for Disease Control (WHCDC) could have spawned the contagion in Hubei province. The paper, penned by scholars Botao Xiao and Lei Xiao, claims the WHCDC kept disease-ridden animals in laboratories, including 605 bats. It also mentions that bats - which are linked to coronavirus - once attacked a researcher and 'blood of bat was on his skin.' The report says: 'Genome sequences from patients were 96% or 89% identical to the Bat CoV ZC45 coronavirus originally found in Rhinolophus affinis (intermediate horseshoe bat).' It describes how the only native bats are found around 600 miles away from the Wuhan seafood market and that the probability of bats flying from Yunnan and Zhejiang provinces was minimal. In addition there is little to suggest the local populace eat the bats as evidenced by testimonies of 31 residents and 28 visitors. Instead the authors point to research being carried out withing a few hundred yards at the WHCDC. One of the researchers at the WHCDC described quarantining himself for two weeks after a bat's blood got on his skin, according to the report. That same man also quarantined himself after a bat urinated on him. He also mentions discovering a live tick from a bat - parasites known for their ability to pass infections through a host animal's blood. 'The WHCDC was also adjacent to the Union Hospital (Figure 1, bottom) where the first group of doctors were infected during this epidemic.' The report says. 'It is plausible that the virus leaked around and some of them contaminated the initial patients in this epidemic, though solid proofs are needed in future study.' 'It starts out in a communist country. Its tentacles spread all across the world in numbers that are not big and not huge, but they're being reported as just the opposite. Just trying to keep it all in perspective.' Limbaugh added: 'The drive-by media hype of this thing as a pandemic, as the Andromeda strain, as "Oh my God, if you get it, you're dead." 'Do you know what the… I think the survival rate is 98 per cent - 98 per cent of people who get the coronavirus survive. It's a respiratory system virus. 'It probably is a ChiCom laboratory experiment that is in the process of being weaponized.' The White House budget office said yesterday that urgent funds were being made available for vaccines, treatment and protective equipment.  But the request was immediately slammed by Democrats as insufficient with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi calling it 'completely inadequate' to the scale of the emergency.  White House budget office spokeswoman Rachel Semmel said: 'Today, the Administration is transmitting to Congress a $2.5 billion supplemental funding plan to accelerate vaccine development, support preparedness and response activities and to procure much needed equipment and supplies.  'We are also freeing up existing resources and allowing for greater flexibilities for response activities.' After a controversial decision to repatriate 14 American cruise passengers whose test results came back positive as they were boarding evacuation flights from Japan to the US, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) officials warned that the it is 'very likely' coronavirus will start to spread in US communities.  Chinese scientists have revealed the deadly virus may have started life in a research facility just 300 yards from the Wuhan fish market.   A new bombshell paper from the Beijing-sponsored South China University of Technology says that the Wuhan Center for Disease Control (WHCDC) could have spawned the contagion in Hubei province. 'The possible origins of 2019-nCoV coronavirus,' penned by scholars Botao Xiao and Lei Xiao claims the WHCDC kept disease-ridden animals in laboratories, including 605 bats. It also mentions that bats - which are linked to coronavirus - once attacked a researcher and 'blood of bat was on his skin.' The report says: 'Genome sequences from patients were 96% or 89% identical to the Bat CoV ZC45 coronavirus originally found in Rhinolophus affinis (intermediate horseshoe bat).'       
