china
{ By Sam Blanchard Senior Health Reporter For Mailonline and Stephen Matthews Health Editor For Mailonline    Published:  08:52, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-8041417/Britons-returning-coronavirus-hit-northern-Italy-Iran-South-Korea-self-isolate.html }
Health Secretary Matt Hancock today indicated he wouldn't go to northern Italy, where the coronavirus has infected more than 200 people. He said a surge in cases in the Lombardy region over the weekend was 'very worrying' and that people coming back from hardest-hit areas should stay at home for two weeks. When asked whether he would still travel to the region he hesitated and said 'I'm not planning to go, put it that way'.  Government advice was today updated to tell all Britons who have been to northern Italy to self-isolate at home if they start to feel ill. The updated advice has also told people to stay at home for two weeks if they have returned from Iran or the cities of Daeugu or Cheongdo in South Korea, which have been battered by the deadly infection. Travellers from Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar have been told to self-isolate if they have flu-like symptoms, such as a cough or a fever. Italy has seen a devastating rise in COVID-19 cases since Friday, with confirmed infections rocketing from just six to more than 280, and seven people have died. British tourists last night attacked the Government's 'pitiful' response to the developments, with some saying they were given no safety advice and others feeling forced to cancel trips. As other countries ramped up warnings not to travel to the Italian crisis zone, Downing Street insisted Britain is 'well prepared' for an outbreak.  The country has effectively placed 50,000 citizens in lockdown by shutting off more than a dozen towns close to Milan and cancelling public events.  The dramatic escalation in Italy – which was one of the first countries to ban flights from China when the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak started – comes as the international number of cases rose above 80,000 and more than 2,700 are dead.  The following advice applies to people who have travelled back from the named areas since Wednesday, February 19.  Existing advice, which applies more broadly to at least the past fortnight, says people should follow the self-isolation protocol if they feel ill after coming home from China, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia or Macau. Anyone coming home from the Hubei province of China should self-isolate even if they don't feel ill. Speaking to Sky News this morning Mr Hancock said: 'We're saying that those who have been in Northern Italy, if they feel ill [with] flu-like symptoms, then you should self-isolate, stay at home, try not to see other people. 'If you've been to Italy to the areas that are being quarantined by the Italian government then you should stay at home and self-isolate even if you don't have any symptoms.' He added that the government doesn't think there are any Brits in the quarantined area but it cannot be certain. 'This development in Italy is obviously very worrying because it's a significant outbreak,' Mr Hancock said. 'But throughout this outbreak ... we've been clear that we expect cases here, so people shouldn't be surprised that there are cases this close to home, but it just shows how important preparations are.' When asked whether he would travel to Italy, Mr Hancock said it would be 'perfectly reasonable' to go to the south of the country, but that he is 'not planning on going' to the north. He added: 'We haven't changed the official government travel advice but I'm not planning on going. 'And if people go and then they come back and feel ill with flu-like symptoms then we're asking them to self-isolate, to stay at home for two weeks and to try not to come into contact with anybody else. 'That is obviously quite a significant imposition on people. We get that but our top priority is to keep the public safe.' The government's advice is split into two parts. People who have visited Iran, the South Korean cities of Daegu or Cheongdo, or lockdown areas in Italy, which include the towns of Codogno and Fombio to the south of Milan, should self-isolate at home even if they feel healthy after returning. Whereas those coming back from anywhere in Italy that is north of Pisa and Florence, or from Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos or Myanmar should do the same if they start to feel ill.  Iran, which only recorded its first case of COVID-19 on February 19, has now officially confirmed at least 95 people have been infected and 15 have died. The country's health ministry today urged its more than 80million citizens to stay at home to stop the virus from spreading. Sceptics have accused officials of hiding the true scale of the outbreak – one Iranian local official yesterday claimed 50 people had died already in the city of Qom alone.  Hitting back, health ministry spokesman Iraj Harirchi rejected the claim and said: 'No-one is qualified to discuss this sort of news at all.'  He said local lawmakers did not have access to coronavirus statistics. Qom is a holy city in Islam and hundreds of people arrive there on pilgrimages every week, the New York Times reports, raising fears about travellers picking up the virus.  And although Iran's borders with Iraq, Pakistan, Turkey, Afghanistan and Armenia have been closed or part-closed as a result of the outbreak, there are still concerns illness could spread through the volatile region.  The advice adds to instructions for people to stay at home and contact the NHS if they get a flu-like illness after going to China, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia or Macau. Anyone who has been to the Hubei province of China, where the outbreak is worst, should self-isolate regardless of how they feel.  Italy's outbreak has sparked panic across Europe, with buses and trains carrying Italian passengers across borders halted after those on board reported symptoms.    The government has shut down at least 35 roads surrounding a cluster of towns in the Lombardy region of northern Italy, where the virus began to spread rapidly. Those who attempted to leave were threatened with three-month prison sentences.  There have also been confirmed cases in the Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Piemonte and Emilia-Romagna regions. In lockdown are around a dozen places to the south of Milan including Castelgerundo, Terranova dei Passerini, Bertonico, San Fiorano, Maleo, Codogno, Somaglia and Fombio. A World Health Organization spokesperson today said that Italy's shutdown measures were 'pretty strong' and should successfully contain the virus.  European stock markets have rebounded after almost £1.2trillion was wiped off yesterday because of fears of a coronavirus pandemic. Italy's own economy was plunged into chaos by the deadly outbreak, which has infected more than 270 people and killed at least seven. But London's benchmark FTSE 100 index today went up 0.5 per cent in early trading, after slumping to a four-month low yesterday. Elsewhere, Frankfurt's DAX 30 index rose 0.6 per cent and the Paris CAC 40 also increased 0.6 per cent, compared with yesterday's close. Infection fears from investors shaved 5.4 per cent off the Milan stock exchange after the northern regions of Lombardy and Veneto went into lockdown. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte warned the economic hit from the outbreak in Italy could be 'very strong'. 'At this moment we can calculate that there will be a negative economic impact, we are not yet in a position to forecast what will happen,' he said. The country's prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, said mismanagement at an unnamed hospital in the north of the country may have contributed to the outbreak. He told local TV: 'We know that the way one hospital facility was managed was not entirely appropriate... That certainly contributed to the spread.' Austria threatened to close its borders if suspected carriers tried to enter from Italy, while Ireland and Serbia advised citizens not to travel to the affected areas in the north of the country. The EU insisted it has no plans to close the Schengen free-travel zone to stop the spread but announced it has a £195million rescue plan. The Italian government launched a series of draconian town shutdowns and roadblocks to stop the spread, while desperately trying to trace 'patient zero' – the unknown carrier at the centre of the spike of cases.  Iran, the other country from where the UK Foreign Office has told returnees to isolate themselves, has also brought in drastic measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus. British people are advised against 'all but essential' travel to Iran anyway, so this is expected to have less of an impact than the Italy announced.  At least 95 people have been infected in Iran and 16 have died, the government has confirmed. It today urged its 80million citizens to stay at home to avoid spreading the infection after the number of cases has soared since the first was declared on Wednesday, February 19. 'It will be safer for people to stay at home,' health ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour told state TV.  'There were 34 new confirmed cases in the past 24 hours, including 16 people in Qom city.'  Qom is a holy city in Islam and hundreds of people arrive there on pilgrimages every week, the New York Times reports, raising fears about travellers picking up the virus. And although Iran's borders with Iraq, Pakistan, Turkey, Afghanistan and Armenia have been closed or part-closed as a result of the outbreak, there are still concerns illness could spread through the volatile region. At least 15 people in Iran are now known to have died, and 95 have been infected, from the deadly coronavirus that has rapidly swept the world over the past two months.  But Iranian health officials have been forced to deny a cover-up, after a lawmaker in the Islamic Republic's epicentre of Qom claimed there had been 50 deaths in the city alone. Iran's Health Ministry has now urged residents to stay at home while the country battles the outbreak, while its neighbours have shut their doors to contain the deadly virus. SO, HOW HAVE COUNTRIES REACTED TO IRAN'S CORONAVIRUS CRISIS? Turkey 'temporarily' shut its 310-mile (500km) border with Iran. It also halted incoming flights. Pakistan closed its 596-mile (959km) border with the Islamic republic. Afghanistan banned all ground and air travel between the two nations. Jordan barred entry to citizens of Iran, as well as China and South Korea Iraq banned travellers from Iran coming into the war-torn country  Kuwait's Port Authority banned the entry of all ships from the republic United Arab Emirates suspended all passenger and cargo flights to Iran. Armenia reportedly closed parts of its border with Iran and suspended flights between the countries for two weeks.  Saudi Arabia reportedly banned all foreign nationals from entering the country if they have been to Iran  Bahrain blocked all flights from Dubai International Airport – a major travel hub in the Middle East – for 48 hours Oman authorities ordered a ban on flights to Iran, according to reports. Georgia reportedly suspend all direct flights to the country from Iran In the first signs of a UK impact of the Italy situation, a British Airways flight from Heathrow to Milan was delayed by 20 minutes yesterday morning when a passenger asked to get off the flight because they were afraid of the coronavirus.  Diego Gullo, who flew from Milan to Gatwick on Thursday, told how he had placed himself and his family in quarantine after returning from Codogno, the town at the centre of Italy's outbreak.  Speaking from his home in north London, he told Sky News: 'I haven't had any specific advice, there is no check in the UK.  'We did call 111 and we were not told anything in particular... they suggested to just continue as usual.' Ryanair and easyJet have confirmed they will continue to fly to Italy as normal despite the outbreak, denying people refunds if they change their mind about travelling.  The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has not changed its travel advice for Italy, so airlines claim there is no reason for extraordinary measures.  But despite the 'danger zones' being outside of major tourist areas, Britons are fearful they may come into contact with the virus and others say they will have nothing to do with attractions shut and residents banned from leaving their homes.  Ryanair customers are charged between £35 and £95 to amend their flights, depending on the route, and easyJet charges between £25 and £52. An easyJet spokesperson said: 'There is currently no change to advice for airlines or customers, so our flights are operating as normal and standard terms and conditions on tickets continue to apply.' Tourists in Tenerife have even been hit by Italy's crisis after a holidaymaker who travelled from Lombardy tested positive for the coronavirus and sent a hotel into quarantine. Now more than 1,000 people at the H10 Costa Adeje Palace are reportedly trapped there, with local media saying state police have surrounded the hotel to stop people leaving.  By Jack Elsom for MailOnline  Coronavirus has now 'peaked' in China, according to the World Health Organisation which praised Beijing's robust measures to insulate the outbreak. While the number of cases continues to rise - surpassing 77,000 - the rate at which new infections are sprouting up has started decelerating. But while officials firefighting the epidemic in China can take solace in the slow-down, other countries have been warned to brace for a 'potential pandemic' as the virus continues to spill out across the globe.  WHO chief Dr Tedros Adhanom said the peak in China occurred between January 23 and February 2, with the amount of fresh diagnoses  'declining steadily since then'. 'This virus can be contained,' he told reporters in Geneva, praising China for helping to prevent an even bigger spread of the disease through unprecedented lockdowns and quarantines around the outbreak's epicentre.  To quell the outbreak, Beijing has imposed drastic travel bans and quarantined entire cities - while also accused of scrubbing the internet of supposed scare stories.  But since coronavirus spawned in Wuhan late last year, it has spread to infect over 79,000 people globally and killing more than 2,600.  Italy's spiralling coronavirus outbreak has started to spill across the continent, with a tourist from the infection-plagued Lombardy region testing positive on Tenerife.  The patient, understood to be a doctor, had travelled to the Spanish holiday island from the Italian region, which has been locked down following a cluster of cases.  Seven people have died and 229 have been infected in Italy, which is firefighting Europe's first major outbreak. The Italian was tested for the killer virus after going to a private clinic in Adeje in the south of Tenerife after falling ill. Canary Islands president Angel Victor Torres confirmed: 'This afternoon the coronavirus protocol has been activated for an Italian tourist in the south of Tenerife. 'The result from the first test carried out in the Canaries is positive. Tomorrow new tests will take place in Madrid. The patient has been quarantined.' A spokesman for the regional health authority added: 'The protocol states that a second test must take place at the National Microbiology Centre at the Carlos III Health Institute in Madrid. 'The patient has been quarantined and is under the care of health workers.'  The highly contagious bug has manifested itself in every continent except South America and Antarctica.  An acceleration of cases in other parts of the world has prompted similar drastic action to prevent the spread.  Italy has locked down 11 towns and South Korea ordered the entire 2.5 million residents of the city of Daegu to remain indoors.  The spread of the disease - officially known as COVID-19 - continued unabated with Afghanistan, Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait and Oman announcing their first cases on Monday.  Iran has reported 12 deaths, but Tehran MP Ahmad Amiriabadi Farahani suggested the regime was suppressing the true figure.  Yet Dr Adhanom today refused to confirm the coronavirus crisis was yet to reach at pandemic levels.  After a spike in diagnoses, he said: 'The sudden increase in new cases is certainly very concerning.  'There is lots of speculation about whether this outbreak has now become a pandemic.  'For the moment, we are not witnessing the uncontained global spread of this virus and we're not witnessing large scale disease or deaths.'  His comments came after the WHO admitted the killer outbreak will never be officially declared a pandemic.  Instead, the UN-body said the crisis has already been a public health emergency of international concern – the highest warning level – for a month.  But fears of a pandemic are mounting, with a surge in cases taking the world close to the 'tipping point' with 80,000 confirmed cases and 2,600 deaths.     The body, headquartered in Geneva in Switzerland, argues a pathogen must spread easily between humans across the world before it is called a pandemic. The WHO said the current crisis is a cluster of cases in 36 countries and territories, which can be traced back to Asia.  
