china
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  08:39, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8038437/Coronavirus-cost-Asian-economies-115billion-lost-tourism-year.html }
Asia stands to lose at least $105billion in lost tourism receipts if the coronavirus shuts down tourism to and from China, according to a senior economist.   Robert Carnell, who is ING Bank's chief economist and head of research for the Asia-Pacific region, says: 'If we assume that tourism to and from China basically grinds to a halt in 2020, and extra-regional tourism also diminishes, then the cost to the region from lost tourism revenues alone is approximately $105-$115 billion.' This is because China and its citizens are responsible for a considerable proportion of Asian tourism. Chinese visitors are responsible for a third of travellers to South Korea and Cambodia, while over ten million travel to Thailand every year. Carnell adds: 'Few if any Chinese travellers will consider a two week lockdown an acceptable price for a similar length vacation elsewhere in Asia, and not surprisingly, Asian tourists are also notable by their absence in China.  Though China would be severely affected on an absolute GDP basis, losing $74billion in inbound tourism, countries like Thailand and Cambodia would likely be more heavily affected on a per capita basis as their economies are more highly reliant on the tourism industry. The article, titled 'Holidays in Hell,' states: 'It's far too early to speculate how far this Covid-19 outbreak will go. But barely two months into this epidemic and the ramifications are already far-reaching.'  'Parts of China are in a literal lockdown, and there is very little travel between China and other parts of Asia.'  The fall in air traffic is already beginning to impact the airline sector. Hong Kong's flag carrier Cathay Pacific told 27,000 of their workers to take three weeks of unpaid leave between the beginning of March and the end of June to cut costs. Last week, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) says Asia-Pacific airlines could lose almost $28billion in revenue because of the Covid-19 virus.  British airlines meanwhile saw its share prices plummet on Monday, with budget airline EasyJet losing a sixth of its value and TUI declining by 10 per cent. British Airways owner IAG also performed badly. Japan is expected to be particularly hurt by the lack of Chinese tourists flying to China, with the Japanese Association of Travel Agents predicting that about 400,000 Chinese tourists will abandon their planned Japanese vacation by the end of March.  Carnell notes: 'From deserted hotels to empty airports, the impact of this little scrap of protein and lipid [Covid-19] on economies in the region is potentially enormous.'  Fears of a coronavirus pandemic grew on Monday after sharp rises in new cases reported in Iran, Italy and South Korea. The virus has infected more than 77,000 people and killed more than 2,500 in China, most in Hubei province, the epicentre of the outbreak. Outside Mainland China, the outbreak has spread to about 29 countries and territories, with a death toll of about two dozen, according to a Reuters tally. Economics forecaster Oxford Economics estimates that world GDP could be cut by £850billion were the coronavirus to turn into a pandemic, and possibly nudge G7 countries like the UK and Germany into a recession.  From Bali to Bangkok, Asia's main tourism hotspots have suffered thousands of cancellations, even as countries impose travel restrictions to try and halt the spread of the virus. 'While Thailand tops the poll for the region as a whole in terms of pure numbers, Chinese tourists are still a very important source of income for other South East Asian economies,' Carnell says. As part of its analysis, ING included spending by outbound tourists to China, as well as the inbound Chinese tourists that will no longer be visiting countries in the region.  
