china
{ By This Is Money   Published:  08:12, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8041237/FTSE-LIVE-Shares-recover-ground-coronavirus-sell-pauses.html }
After a short-lived positive opening, shares in the UK's biggest companies lost another 2 per cent today as the coronavirus spreads to several countries in Europe.  The FTSE 100 closed down 1.9 per cent, or 138.95 points, at 7,017.88. It follows heavy losses yesterday, when the top index shed 247 points. In company news, Birmingham Bullring owner Hammerson posted lower profits for 2019 as the retail property giant sold off sites to boost its balance sheet. The shopping centre owner said adjusted profits slipped 10.9 per cent to £214million last year. Banknote printer De La Rue is planning for 'extensive' cost cutting as part of an overhaul to turn around its fortunes. The group will look to cut annual costs by around £35million against previous targets for £20million.  Meanwhile, Tesco has revealed 1,800 jobs could be cut in an overhaul of its bakeries as Britain buys less bread.  Higher numbers of jet aircraft orders helped engineering firm Meggitt to record higher revenues and profits in 2019.  The Bournemouth-based aerospace and defence company saw the value of orders rise by 10 per cent to £2.47billion while statutory pre-tax profits jumped by a third to £286.7million with regional and business jets boosting the company.  Sales were ahead in all three of its major markets - with 8 per cent growth in civil aerospace, 11 per cent in defence and 10 per cent in energy.  Uber has joined teams with an unlikely partner to add a new revenue stream with the hopes of finally turning a profit The ride-hailing giant signed a deal with ad-tech company Adomni to introduce advertising displays on top of 1,000 vehicles in three cities across the US, AdWeek reports. The display is a double-sided screen that shows different ads depending on geolocation and time of day.   Amazon is reportedly scrambling to secure inventory that has already been shipped from China to the US amid concerns the company may not have enough products to see them through Prime Day in July as the coronavirus continues to spread.  The online retail giant is said to be communicating with third-party sellers to determine whether the coronavirus will interrupt their supply chains, according to a report in The New York Times. Since the coronavirus outbreak several companies have shut down their stores in China, including Apple and Burberry.  Savers looking for monthly pocket money have been dealt a blow by the news one of the nation's largest building societies will no longer pay monthly interest on its fixed-rate bonds. Yorkshire Building Society previously offered monthly interest payments to savers who held its one, two and three-year fixed-rate bonds and Isas, but now only offers interest paid annually. A reader who alerted to us to the change described it as 'another slap in the face for hard pressed savers'. Thousands of personal details have been leaked by the city watchdog after it bungled a Freedom of Information response. The Financial Conduct Authority admitted the personal details of people who complained about it - including names, addresses and telephone numbers - were mistakenly published in November 2019 and left online until earlier this month. A surprising new survey has revealed how Oxford Street is slowly turning from the capital's shopping hub to a residential address. Currently one of London's top tourist destinations, it has attracted visitors from across the world for hundreds of years, and boasts famous department stores Selfridges and John Lewis alongside an array of chain shops. The road was given its famous name in 1729, when it was a sought after residential area, before its smart townhouses were transformed into retail premises in the 1830s. A public sector and civil service membership club has named the 100 most iconic cars of all time - and selected the Range Rover at number one.   The all-terrain luxury 4X4 first launched in 1970 beat even James Bond’s Aston Martin DB5 in the list, which included production models available to customers, racing stars from years gone by and even big-screen creations such as the Batmobile.  In case you are wondering what Boundless's credentials for picking the top cars are, it should be noted that it was originally called the Civil Service Motoring Association when it launched 97 years ago and used five motoring experts to pick a list for the vote.  TripAdvisor has revealed the winners of the 2020 Travellers' Choice Destination awards – and Ipswich has been named as the UK's top 'emerging destination'. The Suffolk town is the only British destination in the global ranking for this category. It comes 14th in the list, with Kaliningrad in Russia in the top spot, followed by Saranda in Albania, Beirut, Luxor and Naoussa in Greece. The EU today moved to scotch Boris Johnson's drive for a Transatlantic trade deal by making a ban on chlorinated chicken the price of a post-Brexit pact. European ministers have signed off the bloc's negotiating plan, dismissing the prospect of a Canada-style package, and playing hardball on issues such as fishing, level playing field provisions, and the Elgin Marbles.  In a brazen effort to increase the pressure on the UK, they are also believed to have included a demand that the UK follows EU standards on 'health and product sanitary quality in the food and agricultural sector'. The document will be officially published later. Italy has confirmed its first case of coronavirus in the south after a holidaymaker from the north fell sick while visiting Sicily with her husband and friends. The woman, from Bergamo, had travelled to the Sicilian capital of Palermo before her home region of Lombardy was put on lockdown following a surge in cases at the weekend. But in recent days she began showing flu-like symptoms and went to hospital where she was diagnosed. Guests of the Mercure hotel where she was staying have now been quarantined and tested for the infection. Stock markets across Europe including in London fell for the second day in a row today as fears continued over the economic impact of coronavirus. The FTSE 100 index of leading UK companies was down 38 points or 0.5 per cent to 7,119 by lunchtime today, after opening up by a similar level in early trading. This represented a drop of £11billion, one day after it accounted for £62billion of losses on global markets yesterday on what was its worst day since 2015. With keyless car theft on the rise, Halfords has today launched a new product that it hopes can tackle the spate of high-tech vehicle crime Britain. The Fingerprint T-Bar Steering Lock - which costs £59.99 - is the world's first security device activated by a driver's fingerprint using biometric technology you'd expect to see developed by Q Branch for James Bond's most valuable Aston Martin rather than a motoring retailer to protect Joe Bloggs' Ford Focus. By placing a digit over a sensor on the device, it unlocks in moments, meaning there will no longer be any keys for owners to lose or locks that thieves can pick. Passengers have hit out at Ryanair, easyJet and British Airways for refusing to refund flights to Italy after seven people died from coronavirus there.  Italy has dramatically stepped up its fight to contain the virus after a huge spike in cases, with 229 diagnoses confirmed and seven dead. The country has effectively placed 50,000 citizens on lockdown by shutting off more than a dozen towns and cancelling public events, with Britons returning from the worst-affected regions of Lombardy and Veneto asked to self-quarantine at home.   A group of dental customers have been left frustrated and confused after a chain of private dentists closed without warning – with many having paid thousands of pounds in advance. Finest Dental, which had seven branches across the country, has ceased trading yet hasn't formally gone into liquidation yet, leaving thousands of customers not knowing where to turn and unsure of where they stand.  One reader, Katie-Jayne Flynn, said she only found out that anything was wrong after she walked to her London surgery to see a sign in the window. The majority of the top 20 easy-access savings deals in Britain last year came with bonus rates, withdrawal limits or other restrictions, research shows.  Meanwhile, more than a quarter of the top 100 rates came with two or more hurdles, according to analysis of the easy-access market by personal finance website Moneycomms and Investec. Savers are increasingly having to put up with more rules in order to access the best returns on their money, the data highlights. Motorists are being warned to be extra vigilant when buying vehicles from free websites such as Facebook Marketplace, Shpock and Gumtree over concerns that rogue dealers are advertising dodgy cars under the guise of private sellers. Industry insiders have sounded the alarm on fraudulent sellers - both dealers and individuals - attempting to flog stolen, written-off and financed cars to unknowing motorists using non-specialist sites. And with little to no legal protection for second hand car buyers in these scenarios, it means drivers can be at risk of losing thousands of pounds - and the vehicle they bought - if they purchase from these sellers. While Goldman Sachs' Marcus account has topped the easy-access savings tables almost every day since it arrived in Britain, savers should beware of fraudsters purporting to be fellow American banks offering inflation-busting 'fixed-rate bonds'. This is Money was contacted by two readers last week, both of whom had been cold called by 'JPMorgan Asset Management', while one was also contacted by people purporting to be US bank Citigroup. They were offered fixed-rate deals for one, two, three, four and five-year bonds, all of which were supposedly protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, with returns higher than the ones in our best buy tables. A couple had £25,000 in savings cleared from their account while travelling in South America after one of their phone numbers was ported without consent. The pair, who wish to remain anonymous, slammed their phone company Three stating it does not take security seriously enough, effectively helping 'facilitate' so-called 'Sim swap' scams. They contacted This is Money at the start of December 2019 while in Colombia, after their number was stolen - Three gave it away to an identity thief. Flights into space have come down in price over the years - but casually jetting for an out of this world experience is still way out of reach to the average punter.   Virgin Galactic is now quoting $250,000 - or £193,000 - for would-be space tourists, small change for the global elite. But despite this, its share price has skyrocketed this year.   The global space industry is set to rake in an expected revenue of more than $1trillion - £700billion - by 2040, according to claims by investment giant Morgan Stanley. Hundreds of thousands of landlords have left the market since the introduction of controversial tax changes three years ago, new research suggests. There are some 222,570 fewer landlords now than in 2017, a drop of 8 per cent, according to research from estate agents Hamptons International. As a result there are now fewer landlords in Britain than at any point in the past seven years.  Asia stands to lose at least $105billion in lost tourism receipts if the coronavirus shuts down tourism to and from China, according to a senior economist.   Robert Carnell, who is ING Bank's chief economist and head of research for the Asia-Pacific region, says: 'If we assume that tourism to and from China basically grinds to a halt in 2020, and extra-regional tourism also diminishes, then the cost to the region from lost tourism revenues alone is approximately $105-$115 billion.' This is because China and its citizens are responsible for a considerable proportion of Asian tourism. Chinese visitors are responsible for a third of travellers to South Korea and Cambodia, while over ten million travel to Thailand every year. Italy's coronavirus epidemic has pounded the country's economy, which slumped after seven people died and 229 fell ill. It came as more than a $1 trillion was wiped off the value of the world's stock markets over fears about the virus outbreak. Infection fears from investors shaved 5.4 per cent off the Milan stock exchange after the northern regions of Lombardy and Veneto - the industrial and financial heartlands - went into lockdown.  Panicked investors have pushed gold to an all-time high in sterling terms as they scrambled to protect their savings from the coronavirus contagion. European stock markets were in turmoil yesterday as a flare-up of the deadly Covid-19 virus in Italy claimed six more lives. Investors were quick to drop travel firms and miners, amid fears that the outbreak would deter travel and stymie industrial activity, and rushed to the relative safety of gold. Stock markets in Asia were lower Tuesday after Wall Street recorded its worst session in two years and fears of the coronavirus weakening the world economy cause the Dow Jones Industrial Average to plunge more than 1,000 points. Hong Kong's Hang Seng dipped a small .2 percent to 26,777.88 and up north, the Shanghai Composite index faltered 1.6 percent. Japan's Nikkei 225 index dropped 3 percent to 22,686.61 after it reopened from a holiday on Monday, while the S&P ASX/200 dropped 1.2 percent to reach 6,896.10. 
