china
{ By Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:55, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8040359/Tik-Tok-second-used-app-young-Australians-despite-paedophile-fears.html }
Social media sensation TikTok has become the second most used app for young Australians - even more popular than Instagram. The surge in popularity comes despite fears the mini-movie app is a magnet for paedophiles, amid concerns Australian children are being targeted online. Users of the app only have to be 13 years old to sign up - and can be contacted by anyone unless they make their profile private. But this hasn't stopped much younger children flocking to use the app, with 40 per cent of girls between 10 and 13 using the app despite the age restriction. Even children as young as six are regularly using the app, where anyone can request to view their videos or pose as a kid. Stats from researcher company Roy Morgan showed 517,000 Australian children aged between six and 13 use TikTok - which is far younger than the app's rules allow. A whopping 676,000 young people between 14 and 29 use the social media site. Users post videos of themselves and broadcast them on the app Anyone can find these videos and post comments on them It also allows you to message that person privately   Some of the most popular videos are watched more than 10 million times Each TikTok video is generally 15 to 60 seconds long The videos are typically set to music, often showing the user dancing, doing a trick, or lip-syncing Cyber safety experts have warned against young kids using the app, as any user can request to look at their pictures and videos, and even pretend to be another child. The most used app by young Australians is YouTube, followed by TikTok, then Instagram and Facebook.  Michele Levine, CEO of Roy Morgan, said: 'TikTok is no doubt an unknown quantity to many Australians, but it is increasingly popular amongst the ‘digital natives’ of Gen Z (born 1991-2005) and Gen Alpha (born since 2006).  'Already over 1.6 million Australians are using TikTok in an average four weeks and this includes nearly 540,000 in Gen Alpha and over 670,000 in Gen Z – over 1.2 million across these two youngest generations.' Young girls and women are even more likely to use TikTok, making up more than two-thirds of users. Of those in the 10-13 age group, 40 per cent of girls are using TikTok compared to less than 20 per cent of boys.   In a dire warning to parents, 'Cyber Cop' Susan McLean told Daily Mail Australia TikTok was 'not safe' for kids due to grooming, bullying and privacy fears. 'TikTok is not a safe app and there are many concerns, not the least bullying and grooming by predators,' Ms McLean, a former Victorian police cyber safety specialist of 27 years, said. 'Any app that allows communication can be used by predators.' Worryingly, the cyber safety expert warned TikTok has been known to fail to remove suspicious accounts even after being warned they could be run by a child groomer. 'TikTok does not have the same safety sessions as some of the more well-known apps and routinely do not remove accounts that have been flagged as potentially a predator,' she explained.  'Paedophiles like to watch kids sing and dance so they can take the videos and share them.  'The data gathering is a huge concern and if the government is worried then it is not a place for kids.' Her comments come after an investigation in the UK found children as young as eight were being groomed on TikTok. It found kids were being bombarded by explicit messages on the app.  On its website, TikTok explained to parents that they can set their child's profile to private. But it admits that 'even with a private account, profile information – including profile photo, username, and bio – will be visible to all users.'  It encouraged parents to 'counsel' their children not to reveal personal information such as age, address, or phone number on their profile.  Kids Helpline also revealed there was scope for 'bullying' on the app, and said it had received concerning reports from its counsellors. In one incident, a child discovered a girl at school had posted a TikTok video saying she should 'die in a hole'. There are also concerns about privacy and data used by the Chinese-owned company.  'Both the US and Australian governments have told serving soldiers that they are not to use it because of security fears,' Ms McLean explained.  'TikTok also received the biggest fine in US history for gathering data on kids and selling it.'  TikTok lets users create and share short singing and dancing videos that are set to well-known songs.  The Beijing-based company behind the app has more than 500 million active users and is now worth more than $110billion. Since Instagram took away the option to see how many 'likes' a post has, TikTok has become teenagers' favourite app for checking their popularity.    TikTok also has a direct message function, as well as live-streaming and public comments.  A spokesperson for TikTok said: 'TikTok is an app for users age 13 and over, and we’ve given the app a 12+ App Store rating so parents can simply block it from their child’s phone using device-based controls.  'In our Safety Centre we offer a library of educational resources for teens and their families, including safety educational videos and a safety blog series.  'As one of many apps with teenage users, we encourage parents to monitor their teenager’s account, review and adjust their privacy settings, help them report any inappropriate behavior, and have an open dialogue with their teenagers about how to be responsible and safe in all online activity.' TikTok is a Chinese social media app where users can live stream, create short videos and music videos and Gifs with a host of functions.  TikTok's tagline is 'Make every second count'. It was the most downloaded app in the US in 2018 and the world's fourth most downloaded app in 2018, ahead of Instagram and Snapchat. TikTok is known in China as Douyin where it was launched in 2016 and then made more widely available around the world in 2017.   Douyin is still the version of the app used in China, available to download separately to TikTok. Last year, the app was merged with popular music video lip-syncing app Musical.ly, also with headquarters in China.  Most children use the app to film themselves lip-syncing to chart hits.  It offers users a raft if colourful modification and editing tools including overlaying music, sound, animated stickers, filters and augmented reality (AR) for creating short videos.  The Beijing based social network has more than 500 million active users and the company is now worth more than $75 billion (£58 billion).  
