{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  23:54, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8040079/Appen-takes-hit-despite-strong-FY-result.html }
Appen shares rebounded from an early plunge after the machine learning dataset company unveiled a "strong" full-year result. At close, shares in the Sydney-based company were up 6.5 per cent to $25.40, after being down as much as 16 per cent in early trade amid a broad market sell-off. Appen announced the Figure Eight business it bought in April helped it grow revenue by 47.1 per cent to $536 million for the year to December 31. Appen, which develops human-annotated datasets for training artificial intelligence algorithms, said underlying net profit had beaten its previously upgraded guidance by rising 32 per cent to $64.7 million. Statutory net profit after tax dropped by 0.3 per cent, or $117,000, to $41.6 million, while statutory earnings rose 29 per cent to $87.9 million, reflecting the impact of the transaction costs relating to Figure Eight. The result was was driven by a "stand-out" 32 per cent increase in speech and image data types revenue to $67.7 million, the company said was achieved through growing demand" for "high-quality training data for a richer set of artificial applications". Appen's relevance team also enjoyed a 37 per cent increase in revenue to $430 million. Chief executive Mark Brayan said despite the stock market roller-coaster he was pleased with Figure Eight's "return to form" and the underlying growth coming through the business. "My job is to deliver results and I'll leave the share price reactions to the experts, but it was a pretty turbulent day for us and other no doubt," he told AAP on Tuesday. Mr Brayan said the integration of Figure Eight and Appen had begun with major components expected to be completed by the end of 2020, while set-up of the company's US government operations were on track and would enable greater participation in government contracts. The chief executive also said Appen's operation in China - the firm has its headquarters in Shanghai, as well as a data delivery in Wuxi - was growing fast. "China first of all is an AI market that potentially rivals the US, hence our investment into China was to participate in that market," he said. "We're investing into China, but we're doing it in a measured fashion - we're not overly exposed to China. All things being equal, I think we'll enjoy good growth from China and a meaningful contribution over the next few years." Meanwhile, Mr Prayan expected the coronavirus outbreak to have a "negligible" impact on Appen's FY20 group revenue and earnings, given its China operations were young and its targets modest. "With coronavirus, because of our low reliance on China currently, any domestic impact is not going to affect the group's revenues on a worldwide basis," he said. "Where we may see a bigger impact is for our US customers that rely on China for supply of their hardware. "And whilst that doesn't directly impact our business, if our major US customers suffer material slowdowns, then they just cut costs across the board, and that may impact the work we do with them." Appen announced an interim dividend of five cents per share, partially franked, up from four cents per share the year before. 
