{ By Mary Kekatos Senior Health Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:35, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-8039645/Former-Marine-62-reclaims-Guinness-World-Record-title-planking-8-hours.html }
A 62-year-old man from Illinois has broken the male Guinness World Record for the longest time spent holding an abdominal plank. On February 15, George Hood, of Naperville, held a plank for an astonishing eight hours, 15 minutes and 15 seconds. That's longer than the entire third season of Netflix's TV series Stranger Things.  Hood held the title back in 2011 and - after losing it in 2016 - his three sons inspired him to try and break the record again. It was the culmination of seven hours a day of training for the last 18 months, including doing 674,000 sit ups, 270,000 push ups and one practice 10-hour plank. SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO  Planking is an exercise known for helping to strengthen the muscles of your core, shoulders and neck as well as helping to improve posture. Most beginners hold three planks for up to 60 seconds each to reap maximum benefits.   Hood first set the record for planking in 2011, when he held a plank for one hour and 20 seconds - one-eighth as long as his current record. Mao Weidong, a police officer from China, took the title in 2016 when he held a plank for eight hours, one minute, and one second. Hood says that he's spent at least seven hours a day every day training over the last year-and-a-half for this moment.  'It's at least four to five hours a day of planking,' he told DailyMail.com.   'At least 700 push-ups a day, 500 squats. 500 band curls. It's all floor work. And then there's a cardio block - 30 mins on the treadmill. That's just power-walking and jogging to elevate the heart rate.'    To prepare for the event, Hood did around 2,100 hours of planking, according to a release from Guinness World Records. The release also states that Hood did a practice attempt in 2018, in which he lasted 10 hours and 10 minutes.  Hood - a Marine veteran and former Drug Enforcement Agency Supervisory Special Agent - broke the record at Illinois facility 515 Fitness, which addresses mental health through exercise.  'I'm very inspired by the work they do and I want to raise awareness of the mental health issue,' he said. 'I want to break the stigma of seeking help and asking for help. You have to take mental fitness as seriously as physical fitness.'  Twelve hours before starting, Hood had his last meal, a combination of protein and carbohydrates: spinach, salmon and potatoes Then, waking up four hours before the event he had one cup of coffee, a hardboiled egg, one hot cup of oatmeal and two to three large glasses of electrolytes.  Hood says he stopped planking at 8 hours, 15 minutes and 15 seconds in honor of 515 Fitness gym.  After he reclaimed his world title, Hood did 75 'celebratory push-ups.' He says he doesn't plan to try to break the world record for planking again and that his next goal is to break the record for most push-ups completed in one hour, which currently sits at 2,806.  Hood says that for anyone starting a fitness journey, even holding just a 30-second plan, it requires repetition.   'I equate planking to planting a tree, you have to plant the seeds,' he said. 'Everyone has a first plank. Mine was my five minutes back in the day. But you repeat sets and once you repeat sets, you'd be surprised how much progress you’ll make.' The female abdominal plank world record holder is Dana Glowacka, from Canada, who held a plank for four hours, 19 minutes and 55 seconds last year.   
