{ By Monique Friedlander and Jo Scrimshire For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:23, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8039737/Kate-Langbroek-trapped-Venice-Coronavirus-lockdown.html }
Kate Langbroek was stranded in Venice over the weekend after a coronavirus scare left the island city in lockdown. The radio presenter, 54, who lives with her family in Bologna, had travelled to Venice on Friday with her husband, Peter, for the weekend's Carnival festivities.  Speaking to Hughesy and Ed on Monday, Kate revealed that the streets and canals of Venice were eerily empty amid the health crisis.  'Walking through Venice... it was like a ghost town last night, even though there were still Carnival events on during the day,' she said.    'The news broke yesterday that they were cancelling Carnival today and tomorrow. That's huge news.'  She went on to reveal that her children's schools and sporting activities have been cancelled for the week. Kate made light of the situation by joking that the lockdown was a good excuse to extend her Venetian holiday.  'Peter and I were like, "Hang on a minute, if we get quarantined in Venice, our four children are at home with a babysitter in Bologna. Does that mean we get two weeks of holidays?"'  This didn't happen, however, as Kate explained she'd managed to book train tickets out of Venice for herself and her husband.  Following her interview with Hughesy and Ed, Kate uploaded a photo to Instagram of a man wearing a traditional Carnival 'plague doctor' mask.  'The streets of Venice are quiet this morning. Plague doctor out,' she wrote in the caption, adding the hashtags 'Venezia' and 'coronavirus'. She also shared a video to her Instagram Story of the spectacular view from her hotel room, which overlooked Venice's Grand Canal. 'It's the first morning after the coronavirus scare, so things are a bit quieter than normal. But we're about to venture out and see what's going on... still very beautiful,' Kate said.  Kate and Peter relocated to Italy with their four children, Lewis, Sunday, Artie and Jan, in January 2019 for what was supposed to be a 'gap year.' They have since extended their stay for another 12 months. NEW SOUTH WALES: 4   January 25 January 27  VICTORIA: 6 January 25 January 29 January 30 February 1  February 22   QUEENSLAND: 8 January 29 January 30 February 4 February 5   February 6 SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 3 February 1 WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 1 February 21   JAPAN: 15     On Sunday, Italian officials announced the Venice Carnival would end later that day, cutting the event short by two days due to the virus outbreak.  The northeastern Italian regions of Veneto, which has Venice as its regional capital, and Lombardy are now under strict quarantine restrictions. About 50,000 people cannot enter or leave several towns in Veneto and Lombardy for the next two weeks without special permission.  Lombardy and Veneto have also locked down towns and banned public events, with schools also being shut to stop the virus spreading.  Even outside the zone, many businesses and schools have suspended activities, and sporting events have been cancelled including several top-flight soccer matches. Italy has confirmed 219 cases of the virus, by far the largest number outside China, Japan and South Korea. So far, seven people have died. Authorities across the north have shut schools, universities, museums and cinemas for at least a week in the most drastic quarantine measures that any country has taken outside Asia.  On Saturday, Italy's Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced that 'extraordinary measures' would come into force amid the virus outbreak.  Italian shares fell 4.2 per cent on Monday morning. Banco BPM, which has its roots in Lombardy, saw its shares plunge by nearly seven per cent. Analysts say the outbreak could shunt Italy's fragile economy into its fourth recession in 12 years, with government bonds also taking a swift hit.  
