{ By Billie Thomson For Mailonline   Published:  17:05, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8038501/Pensioner-butchers-cat-outside-restaurant-Wuhan-coronavirus-outbreak.html }
A pensioner in Wuhan has been spotted butchering a cat in broad daylight as the city is ravaged by the novel coronavirus, which is believed to have come from exotic animal meat. Chilling footage circulating on Chinese social media shows the man skinning the dead feline outside a restaurant. The video emerged as China today banned all trade and consumption of wild animals in the wake of the epidemic. The clip was said to be filmed in front of a lamb restaurant in the city's Hanjiang District yesterday afternoon. It is believed that the pensioner, whose identity remains unknown, was preparing the animal's meat for food. He did not wear a face mask or protective clothing in the process.  Users of Weibo, the Chinese equivalent to Twitter, have been shocked by the man's behaviour. One person condemned his act: 'What on earth is this man doing?! You are slaughtering a cat while the whole country is helping Wuhan to save lives? I hope to find out the details. Humans can't be like this.' Another similar comment read: 'My country, where is your kindness? Where is your bottom line? Why have more and more people become monsters?' A third user questioned: 'Why does he have to eat this kind of meat?' Experts believe that the new coronavirus has been passed onto humans by wildlife sold as food, especially bats and snakes. China's top legislative committee on Monday passed a proposal to ban all trade and consumption of wild animals. Beijing is yet to revise its wild animal protection law, but the passage of the proposal was 'essential' and 'urgent' in helping the country win its war against the epidemic, wrote state newspaper People's Daily. Late last month after the epidemic began exploding across the country, China ordered a temporary ban 'until the national epidemic situation is over'. Chinese health officials have said the virus likely emerged from the Huanan Seafood Wholesales Market in the central city of Wuhan. The exact source of the coronavirus remains unconfirmed, but scientists variously speculated that it originated in bats, pangolins, or some other mammal. Scientists say SARS likely originated in bats, later reaching humans via civets. The virus, known as SARS CoV, killed 775 people and infected more than 8,000 globally during an epidemic between 2002 and 2003. Civets, a cat-like creature, were among dozens of species listed as for sale by one of the merchants at the Wuhan market according to a price list that circulated on China's internet. Other items included rats, snakes, giant salamanders and live wolf pups. The new coronavirus, known as COVID-19, has killed 2,592 people and infected some 77,000 in China. Globally, the epidemic has claimed at least 2,628 lives, infected more than 79,700 patients and spread to at least two dozen countries. 
