china
{ By Charlotte Karp For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  14:36, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036861/Inside-mums-crazy-pantry-stock-piles-coronavirus-pandemic.html }
A mum who has prepared for the coronavirus to spark economic collapse insists she's not paranoid, despite melting down jewellery to trade for food, breeding fish to eat, and stockpiling weapons in case of a global pandemic. The woman, who wished to remain anonymous, is a self-professed zombie apocalypse movie enthusiast from Scenic Rim in south-east Queensland, and has enough food and medicine to last a year. Despite having five pantries brimming with 50kg each of rice and lentils, boxes of cereal and bottles of hand sanitiser, the mum-of-four said she doesn't think the coronavirus will get 'really bad', but believes 'you can never be too safe'.   'We've gone a little above and beyond,' she told news.com.au, detailing her new collection of water filters, camping gear, vegetable seeds, dog food, weapons and surplus of paracetamol, antibiotics and anti-inflammatory medications. The 32-year-old said she initially started hoarding medicine for her son who takes medication for ADHD that is manufactured in China. She fears that if the Chinese borders aren't re-opened soon, her son will be without medicine. 'If it ever did go bad, medicine would be something to trade for, for maybe food or something else. Asthma puffers, we've stocked up on them, because let's face it, half of Australia has asthma. 'We've got about 15 pouches of tobacco so far. It's not a lot but it can still be traded for food if need be. Smokers, no matter how crazy it is, will still want to smoke.'  She has also melted silver and gold jewellery down in case a bartering system becomes the new normal and the family need something valuable to trade. The family has also started to research survival skills and natural healing methods, and her husband is learning to blacksmith in case forging metal becomes a coveted skill in a post-apocalyptic world. Along with a fish breeding program in three large tanks in their living room, the family have a full survival plan in case the coronavirus gets out of control in Australia. While the woman admitted it's possible the precautions won't be necessary, she said all the items they have collected can still be used. There have been 22 cases of the coronavirus in Australia. Ten people have recovered and the others are in a stable condition. Meanwhile, 266 people who arrived on a flight from Wuhan on February 9 travelled home from Darwin on Monday following 14 days of isolation. None tested positive for the disease. Australia has imposed a travel entry ban for Chinese passengers, but relaxed the rules for Year 11 and 12 students, apart from anyone who remains in the Hubei province, the epicentre of the virus outbreak. There have been 80,352 cases worldwide and 2707 deaths. NEW SOUTH WALES: 4   January 25 January 27  VICTORIA: 6 January 25 January 29 January 30 February 1  February 22   QUEENSLAND: 8 January 29 January 30 February 4 February 5   February 6 SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 3 February 1 WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 1 February 21   JAPAN: 15     
