{ By Associated Press   Published:  14:06, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037971/TSA-bans-employees-TikTok-review-finds-Chinese-app-pose-threat-national-security.html }
The Transportation Security Administration said Sunday it has stopped allowing employees to use the China-owned video app TikTok to create social media posts for the agency after the Senate's top Democrat raised concerns about potential national security issues. New York Senator Chuck Schumer sent a letter letter Saturday to TSA Administrator David Pekoske, months after news reports that the U.S. government launched a national security review of the app, which is popular with millions of U.S. teens and young adults.  The ban follows the US Army and the Marines stopping soldiers from using the  application too. In his letter, Schumer said national security experts have raised concerns about TikTok's collection and handling of user data and personal information, locations and other content. He also noted in the letter that Chinese laws compel companies to cooperate with China's government and intelligence collection. 'The TSA is to be recognized for its work to engage a variety of stakeholders with airline rules and safety, but it also must acknowledge the ironic risk it's placing its own agency—and potentially the public—in with its continued use of the China-owned TikTok app,' Schumer said in a statement. 'Given the widely reported threats, the already-in-place agency bans, and the existing concerns posed by TikTok, the feds cannot continue to allow the TSA's use of the platform to fly.' Schumer also cited a Department of Homeland Security policy prohibiting TikTok on agency devices. The DHS oversees the TSA.  Over the past few months, the agency has posted a number of videos reshared on other social media platforms such as Twitter, which have amassed hundreds of thousands of views.  Some of the videos are musical parodies about what can and cannot be brought on an aircraft, while others advertise services like TSA's expedited screening program known as PreCheck.  In one of the videos, a TSA spokeswoman with Nutella spread on her face is showing different containers of the chocolate-hazelnut spread to detail which one can be brought in carry-on luggage. On Thanksgiving, the TSA posted a clip related to the 'nopes' & 'yeps' of carry-on luggage and on Valentine's Day they shared a TikTok clip about 'romantic tips' for travelers.   Dear Administrator Pekoske: I write to express my concern about the use of China-owned social media platforms, such as TikTok, by your agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Recently, both the U.S. military and the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the TSA, detailed social media policies and guidelines as it relates to use of the China-owned app TikTok due to security and privacy concerns. Despite these restrictions, including at TSA’s parent DHS, your agency continues to utilize TikTok to communicate with the American public in an official capacity. While I recognize that the TSA must adapt its outreach techniques in order to communicate with a variety of Americans, I urge you to assess the potential national security risks posed by China-owned technology companies before choosing to utilize certain platforms. On October 23, 2019, I sent a letter to the Acting Director of National Intelligence requesting that the Intelligence Community conduct an assessment of the national security risks posed by TikTok and other China-owned content platforms operating in the United States.  National security experts have raised concerns about TikTok’s collection and handling of user data, including user content and communications, IP addresses, location-related data, metadata, and other sensitive personal information, particularly when viewed in light of laws that compel Chinese companies to support and cooperate with intelligence work controlled by the Chinese Communist Party.  Further, due to a lack of transparency and without an independent judiciary to review requests made by the Chinese government for user data or other actions, there is no legal mechanism for Chinese companies to appeal if they disagree with a request. Consequently, I respectfully ask that you provide answers to the following questions as soon as possible: 1. Has the TSA consulted with the Intelligence Community and the Department of Homeland Security with regard to TikTok and other China-owned social media platforms, and whether they pose security risks as platforms for engaging the flying public? If not, does the TSA have future plans for such consultations? 2. Has the TSA been given an exemption from the Department of Homeland Security’s own ban of TikTok? 3. Are TSA officials using government issued devices as part of their official TikTok usage? Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Charles Schumer   'These videos sure do make you chuckle; they're creative,' Schumer said. 'But China might be laughing at these TSA postings for very different reasons, and that should concern us and it's why I am urging the TSA to find a different platform, and cease its use of TikTok now.' Schumer said at a press conference on Sunday: 'TikTok is not as innocent as it sounds. It is owned by a Chinese government-owned company called Byte Dance. If you go on TikTok the Chinese government has your data. You have no recourse. 'If you want to cause trouble what better thing to have than the information that TSA has? It's placing its own agency and the public in danger.' The TSA said in a statement Sunday that a 'small number of TSA employees have previously used TikTok on their personal devices to create videos for use in TSA's social media outreach, but that practice has since been discontinued.'  The agency said it never directed viewers to TikTok or published content directly to the platform, despite videos reposted on other TSA social media accounts having the TikTok logo in the bottom of the screen. The agency said it had an 'active and award-winning presence on several social media platforms.'    The Army, Marines, Navy, Coast Guard and Air Force have all previously announced that the app was no longer allowed on government phones on because it is considered a cyber threat. 'This decision is consistent with our efforts to proactively address existing and emerging threats as we secure and defend our network,' Captain Hector Alejandro of the Marine Forces Cyberspace Command told TMZ.  Army recruiters began using TikTok last year as a means to reach young people and were still using it a few months ago, despite calls from lawmakers to conduct a national security review.  The policy reversal was prompted by a December 16 Defense Department Cyber Awareness Message which identified TikTok as 'having potential security risks associated with its use'. The message directed Defense Department employees to uninstall TikTok to avoid exposure of personal information and to 'be wary of applications you download, monitor your phones for unusual and unsolicited texts etc'. The Navy implemented a similar ban in mid-December, warning sailors that they would be blocked from the Navy intranet if they failed to remove the app from their government-issued phones. It is unclear whether the Air Force has followed suit. Over the past two years, TikTok has become a viral phenomenon among American teens, allowing users to create minute-long videos set to catchy music. It has been downloaded more than 750 million times in the last year, far surpassing apps such as Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. But last February, TikTok was hit with a $5.7million fine over allegations that it illegally collected personal data from children under 13.  Sens Chuck Schumer (D-New York) and Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) called for the intelligence community to evaluate TikTok's national security risks to determine whether it could be used to spy on US citizens in October. In a letter to acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph Maguire, the lawmakers said that because ByteDance is based in China, TikTok could be forced to 'to support and cooperate with intelligence work controlled by the Chinese Communist Party'. TikTok responded by saying that it stores all US user data in the United States and backs it up in Singapore. 'Our data centers are located entirely outside of China, and none of our data is subject to Chinese law,' the company said in a statement. 'Further, we have a dedicated technical team focused on adhering to robust cybersecurity policies, and data privacy and security practices.' In November, TikTok executives refused to appear before a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing examining the tech industries relationship to China, furthering lawmakers' concerns. The company said in a statement at the time: 'Unfortunately, on short notice we were unable to provide a witness who would be able to contribute to a substantive discussion. 'We remain committed to working productively with Congress as it looks at how to secure the data of American users, protect their privacy, promote free expression, ensure competition and choice among internet platforms, and preserve US national security interests.' Sen Cotton responded with a statement saying that TikTok's refusal 'underscores concerns that the company is beholden to the Chinese Communist Party and will not secure the rights and privacy of its American users'.  TikTok is a Chinese social media app where users can live stream, create short videos and music videos and Gifs with a host of functions. TikTok's tagline is 'Make every second count'. It was the most downloaded app in the US in 2018 and the world's fourth most downloaded app in 2018, ahead of Instagram and Snapchat. TikTok is known in China as Douyin where it was launched in 2016 and then made more widely available around the world in 2017. Douyin is still the version of the app used in China, available to download separately to TikTok. Last year, the app was merged with popular music video lip-syncing app Musical.ly, also with headquarters in China. Most children use the app to film themselves lip-syncing to chart hits. It offers users a raft if colorful modification and editing tools including overlaying music, sound, animated stickers, filters and augmented reality (AR) for creating short videos. The Beijing based social network has more than 500 million active users and the company is now worth more than $75 billion (£58 billion). 
