{ By Camilla Canocchi for Thisismoney.co.uk   Published:  10:16, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8037315/Primark-owner-ABF-warns-coronavirus-disruption-sales-climb-thanks-new-store-openings.html }
Primark owner Associated British Foods has warned it may have to ramp up production of its clothes in regions outside China if delays to factory production are prolonged due to the coronavirus epidemic.   The fast-fashion giant, which sources 'a broad assortment' of products from China, said that for now it is unaffected by the outbreak thanks to stockpiling ahead of the Chinese New Year, which means it has enough stock to get it through the summer months. However, it warned it may have to increase production in other countries outside China to mitigate the impact of coronavirus disruption on Chinese supply chains. AB Foods, which also owns a range of food companies, said the cornavirus was having already an impact on its Ovaltine, AB Agri and AB Mauri factories in China, which are 'operating at reduced capacity due to labour and logistics constraints'.  The warning comes as the group expects Primark sales to rise by 4.2 per cent in the first half of its financial year to the end of February, thanks to the opening of new stores.  Store openings also boosted sales in its key UK market, where they rose 3 per cent, but fell 1.3 per cent on a like-for-like basis.   It said trading was 'particularly good' over November and December but weakened in January and February against 'very strong comparatives' in the previous year.  Shares in the FTSE 100 company closed 1.5 per cent lower at £25.43 on Monday , amid a wider sell-off that saw the UK blue-chip index fall by more than 3 per cent. 'We are working closely with our suppliers in China to assess the impact on their factories and supply chains and their ability to fulfill our current orders,' AB Foods said. 'If delays to factory production are prolonged, the risk of supply shortages on some lines later this financial year increases.  'We are assessing mitigating strategies, including a step up in production from existing suppliers in other regions.'        The group said it was on track to post full-year figures in line with expectations, on the back of strong group sales and profits for the half year to February 29.  Hargreaves Lansdown analyst Sophie Lund-Yates thinks Primark was 'well placed to handle near-term disruptions, but it's one to keep an eye on'.  'Overall Primark continues to buck the bleak high street trend. Coronavirus is a potential headwind, but as a dynamic situation it's too early to say how things will turn out,' she added. Russ Mould at AJ Bell said the Chinese supply chain risk was 'a potentially serious one' considering the 'tight profit margins' in Primark's business. 'There are encouraging signs for Primark's expansion in Europe but another factor to watch with the coronavirus is the extent to which its spread affects retail footfall. Primark is heavily reliant on getting shoppers through the doors as it has a minimal online presence.'    Elsewhere, ABF said revenues in its sugar business are expected to improve on last year due to higher EU sugar prices and increased export sales. The firm's grocery business has seen revenues in line with expectations, while profits have improved against last year, as the firm benefited from reduced losses in its troubled Allied Bakeries business, which produces Kingsmill bread. It said its Twinings tea business has seen higher sales than last year, driven by growth across both black tea and herbal tea. 
