china
{ By Jack Wright For Mailonline   Published:  09:23, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032453/BA-flight-Milan-delayed-Heathrow-passenger-got-plane-fears-coronavirus.html }
A passenger due to fly from London Heathrow to Milan today refused to board a British Airways flight amid fears they would contract the deadly coronavirus.  The flight to Italy this morning was delayed by 15 minutes after one customer changed their mind about flying, a BA spokesperson told MailOnline.  NBC reporter Molly Hunter tweeted today at around 7.45am: 'At Heathrow, our BA Milan flight is delayed - the captain just announced there are passengers (I count 3) on board who don’t want to travel due to coronavirus. 'Already pushed back... now re-attaching.'  A spokesperson for British Airways said: 'As with all our customers, we will always respect their wishes if they change their mind about flying at the last minute. The flight left within a few minutes of its scheduled departure time.'  This follows news today that Italy has announced its fourth death from coronavirus as the country imposes drastic measures to contain the outbreak.  An 84-year-old man was confirmed dead today in Lombardy in northern Italy, where 50,000 people have been placed under lockdown, schools have been shut and bars and restaurants have been ordered to close. The man died in Bergamo after he was taken to hospital with an unrelated illness but was later found to have the coronavirus, Italian media said. The outbreak has sparked fears that tourists returning from Italy could send the epidemic spiralling across Europe, with many Britons returning to school and work after the half-term break today. Italy has confirmed more than 160 cases of the virus, by far the largest number outside China, Japan and South Korea. The wealthy Lombardy region which includes Milan is the worst-affected region, while 22 people have been infected in neighbouring Veneto which includes Venice.  Austria halted trains from crossing the Alps into Italy after two German women reported a fever on board, although they later tested negative. Authorities in Lombardy and Veneto have banned public events including Masses, while Milan's famous cathedral has been closed to visitors. Armed personnel were today guarding the Milan church and stopping drivers in Lombardy while carriages were empty in rush-hour trains. The spread of the virus has also forced the stoppage of high-profile events including the Venice Carnival, Milan Fashion Week and Serie A football fixtures. After Italy recorded its first death on Friday, the director general of the World Health Organisation spoke of a narrowing 'window of opportunity.' Sharp rises in Italy, Iran, and South Korea have brought this window into stark focus as the global infection toll soared to 79,565 today, including over 2,600 deaths. South Korea today reported another surge in cases, with another 161 patients diagnosed - most of them linked to the secretive religious sect at the centre of the outbreak - bringing the total to 763 of whom seven have died. The country has also postponed the start of the new football season after officials said the outbreak had 'entered a serious phase'. Elsewhere, Afghanistan, Kuwait and Bahrain have confirmed their first virus cases, with all three countries saying their first patients had recently returned from Iran. 
