{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  08:30, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037099/Health-chief-warns-Australia-facing-coronavirus-pandemic.html }
Despite his federal counterpart's message of calm, Victoria's chief medical officer is bracing for a 'very likely, if not inevitable' COVID-19 world pandemic. Dr Brett Sutton took to Twitter on Sunday to say the state had been working on its pandemic preparedness for weeks. Australia's chief medical officer Dr Brendan Murphy has waved off the nation's concerns over the China-based outbreak, asking people not to wear masks and to go about their normal business. Mr Sutton has pushed a more urgent line. Saying he was 'hoping for the best and planning for the worst,' Mr Sutton on Sunday put out a message to remain alert. 'Australia absolutely has world-class health care but even the best health care in the world is challenged during pandemics,' he wrote. 'So everyone will need to work together to ensure that should a pandemic eventuate, our services can function as effectively as possible.' After outbreaks in Japan and South Korea raised the alarm on whether the World Health Organisation can declare a global pandemic, Dr Sutton wanted to reassure Victorians. 'Victoria and Australia nonetheless remain completely in containment mode - identifying any possible case; isolating those who are infectious, and quarantining contacts,' he said. 'Regardless of developments internationally, this gives all of us time and space to plan and prepare.' Globally, nearly 78,000 people have been infected in 29 countries. The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Australia is 23, after the confirmation of seven positive cases among the group of 164 evacuees from the Diamond Princess cruise ship. This includes 10 people who have recovered from the illness. NEW SOUTH WALES: 4   January 25 January 27  VICTORIA: 6 January 25 January 29 January 30 February 1  February 22   QUEENSLAND: 8 January 29 January 30 February 4 February 5   February 6 SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 3 February 1 WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 1 February 21   JAPAN: 15     
