{ By Afp and Tracy You For Mailonline   Published:  08:20, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037093/China-considers-complete-ban-eating-wild-animals-amid-coronavirus-outbreak.html }
China's top legislative committee on Monday passed a proposal to ban all trade and consumption of wild animals, a practice believed responsible for the country's deadly coronavirus outbreak. Beijing is yet to revise its wild animal protection law, but the passage of the proposal was 'essential' and 'urgent' in helping the country win its war against the epidemic, wrote state newspaper People's Daily.    Experts believe that the new coronavirus has been passed onto humans by wildlife sold as food, especially bats and snakes.  Scroll down for video  People's Daily said the new policy 'comprehensively bans the consumption of wild animals' and 'will impose heavier punishment' against offenders.   The official Xinhua news agency said the proposal was submitted to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC). 'It aims to completely ban the eating of wild animals and crack down on illegal wildlife trade,' it said. The report added that the measure was aimed at 'safeguarding public health and ecological security'. The Standing Committee is responsible for convening the 3,000-member NPC, but it has decided to postpone the annual session due to the health crisis.    Chinese health officials have said the virus likely emerged from a market in the central city of Wuhan. Late last month after the epidemic began exploding across the country, China ordered a temporary ban 'until the national epidemic situation is over'. The new coronavirus has killed 2,592 people in China, infected some 77,000 so far and paralysed its economy.  Globally, the coronavirus epidemic has killed at least 2,628 people, infected more than 79,700 and spread to at least two dozen countries.  Conservationists accuse China of tolerating a shadowy trade in exotic animals for food or use in traditional medicines whose efficacy is not confirmed by science. China instituted a similar temporary ban after the SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) virus killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in 2002-03 and was also traced to wild-animal consumption. But the wildlife trade soon resumed. Health experts say it poses a significant and growing public health risk by exposing humans to dangerous animal-borne pathogens. The exact source of the coronavirus remains unconfirmed, with scientists variously speculating it originated in bats, pangolins, or some other mammal. Scientists say SARS likely originated in bats, later reaching humans via civets.  The virus, known as SARS CoV, killed 775 people and infected more than 8,000 globally during an epidemic between 2002 and 2003. Civets, a cat-like creature, were among dozens of species listed as for sale by one of the merchants at the Wuhan market according to a price list that circulated on China's internet. Other items included rats, snakes, giant salamanders and live wolf pups. Moscow has ordered police to raid hotels, dorms, apartment buildings and businesses in search of Chinese people as Russia attempts to stem the spread of coronavirus. Bus, underground and tram drivers have also been told to report if a Chinese person boards their vehicle before handing them a questionnaire asking why they are in the country and whether they quarantined themselves after arrival. An email that leaked over the weekend suggested that police would also be alerted to Chinese nationals on public transport, though authorities claimed it was a fake. Moscow's mayor has also announced that the city will use facial recognition technology to ensure arrivals from China observe a two-week home quarantine. Since the outbreak of the new virus that has infected more than 76,000 people and killed more than 2,300 in mainland China, Russia has reported two cases. Both patients, Chinese nationals hospitalized in Siberia, recovered quickly.  Russian authorities nevertheless are going to significant - some argue discriminatory - lengths to keep the virus from resurfacing and spreading.  
