{ By Tracy You For Mailonline   Published:  13:32, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042325/Chinese-scientists-develop-oral-vaccine-beat-coronavirus-using-bakers-yeast.html }
Scientists have developed an oral vaccine for the new coronavirus using baker's yeast, Chinese state media reported. A professor in charge of the project has reportedly taken four doses of the drug without having any side effects. However, the expert said the product was still 'far from' being sold on the market because it needed to pass animal tests and clinical trials. The news was announced by Professor Huang Jinhai from the School of Life Sciences at Tianjin University and reported by state newspaper People's Daily.  The immunisation uses food-grade saccharomyces cerevisiae, or baker's yeast, as the carrier and aims at the Spike protein of the virus, Prof. Huang said.  It helps people generate antibodies against the deadly virus. The Spike protein, or S protein, is responsible for inducing the virus into the host cells inside a patient and is the key to tackling the infection, the expert explained. Prof. Huang said he was looking for partners to help his team complete the project. Speaking to Beijing News, Prof. Huang said he believed that the drug would work because 'we have produced similar animal vaccines in the past', but it will have to pass a series of tests on animals and humans to prove its effectiveness. And after that, Chinese authorities will run clinical trials and evaluations on the product before allowing it to hit the market, Prof. Huang added. The expert suspected that it would take at least six months for the invention to be used by hospitals in large quantities.  Multiple research teams have begun developing vaccines for the disease since an outbreak emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan in Hubei Province late last year. Last month, a Russian diplomatic mission in China said that Russia and China were working to develop a vaccine and that Beijing had handed over the genome of the virus to Moscow. Johnson & Johnson is one of the drugmakers that have begun work on developing a vaccine for the coronavirus. Jack Ma, China's richest man, donated 100million yuan (£11million) to help scientists develop anti-coronavirus inoculations. While the United States pledged $2.5 billion (£1.9 billion) to fight the disease, with more than $1 billion (£770 million) going towards developing a vaccine.  The new coronavirus - known as COVID-19 - has killed at least 2,663 and infected more than 77,660 people inside China. Hubei, situated in central China, accounts for more than 80 per cent of the confirmed cases and 95 per cent of the deaths globally. Wuhan, the provincial capital with 11 million residents, went into lockdown on January 23 in the wake of the outbreak. The majority part of Hubei then followed suit. Overnight, the Hubei health officials reported 499 new cases out of a nationwide total of 508 and 68 of the 71 new deaths across China. Globally, the coronavirus epidemic has killed at least 2,705 people, infected more than 80,340 and spread to at least two dozen countries. 
