china
{ By Chris Dyer For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  06:23, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036891/Trump-poised-receive-warm-welcome-India.html }
President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump visited one of independence leader Mahatma Gandhi's homes during an official visit to India today. Trump's first stop on his 36-hour visit was one of Gandhi's former homes, where the president donned a prayer shawl and took off his shoes to quietly walk through the humble ashram. He inspected the loom used by the famed pacifist and looked at statues of monkeys representing Gandhi's mantra of 'See no evil, Hear no evil, Speak no evil' before departing for a mega-rally at the world's largest cricket stadium. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi showed the Trumps around the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad and told them about the charkha - a spinning cotton wheel symbolizing Gandhi's freedom movement.  They tried their hand at spinning the charkha - spinning wheel associated with Gandhi's freedom movement and campaign for the country's self-reliance.  The couple were given a picture of Gandhi at the ashram and President Trump wrote a message thanking Prime Minister Modi. Trump signed the visitor's guestbook with a message to 'my great friend Prime Minister Modi' but did not mention Gandhi. The Sabarmati Ashram, also known as Gandhi Ashram or Harijan Ashram, is one of independence leader Mahatma Gandhi's former homes. From the home in Ahmedabad, Gandhi led the Dandi March, also known as the Salt march. The 24-day non-violent civil disobedience campaign from March 12 to April 6 1930 was a protest of tax resistance against the British salt monopoly. Gandhi began the Swadeshi movement, part of the Indian independence campaign and developing Indian nationalism, by taking up the charkha and encouraging the Indian population to spin their own cloth. The spinning loom became a symbol of self-sufficiency and freedom from the British. The charkha used by Gandhi to spin and the writing table he used for writing letters are some of the items kept at the ashram. At the Sabarmati Ashram, Trump, Melania, his daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner plus a US delegation were served high tea. They were also given a Gujarati delicacy Khaman, broccoli and corn samosa, apple pie and Kaju Katli during their 15-minute stay at the 'Hriday Kunj', where Gandhi stayed for 13 years. From the ashram Gandhi also took the famous pledge at the beginning of the Dandi March of 1930 - a 24-day protest against the British salt monopoly.  Trump today kicked off a whirlwind 36-hour visit to India that will see him speak at a mega-rally to reaffirm US-India ties.  After Air Force One touched down in Ahmedabad in western India, Trump's motorcade slowly drove down streets lined with hundreds of thousands of onlookers.  Following the visit to a former home of Gandhi, Trump will lead a rally at the world's largest cricket stadium then take a trip to the famed Taj Mahal. Dancers in traditional attire, dancers and drummers lined the red carpet rolled out at the stairs of the presidential aircraft as Trump basked in the raucous reception that has eluded him on many foreign trips, some of which have featured massive protests and icy handshakes from world leaders.  In India, he instead received a warm embrace - literally - from the ideologically aligned Prime Minister Modi. The sun-baked city of Ahmedabad bustled as Trump arrived, as the streets teemed with people eager to catch a glimpse of the American president.  Newly cleaned roads and planted flowers dotted the roads amid hundreds of billboards featuring the president and first lady. Trump's motorcade traveled amid cheers from a battery of carefully picked and vetted Modi loyalists and workers from his Bharatiya Janata Party who will stand for hours alongside the neatly manicured 14-mile stretch of road to accord the president a grand welcome on his way to the newly constructed stadium.  Tens of thousands of police officers were on hand to keep security tight and a new wall has come up in front of a slum, apparently to hide it from presidential passers-by. On the way to the stadium, Trump's motorcade crossed over a river where a barge was emblazoned with 'TRUMP' and onlookers chanted 'Modi!'. The stadium was packed with revelers, many of whom sported Trump and Modi masks, as they sat in 80-degree temperatures and listened to both traditional and pop Indian music ahead of the leaders' arrival. The 'Namaste Trump' rally will be, in a way, the back half of home-and-home events for Modi and Trump who attended a 'Howdy Modi' rally in Houston last year that drew 50,000 people. Trump's foreign visits have typically been light on sightseeing, but this time, the president and first lady Melania Trump are to visit the Taj Mahal.  Stories in local media warn of the monkeys that inhabit the landmark pestering tourists for food and, on occasion, menacing both visitors and slingshot-carrying security guards. Images of American presidents being feted on the world stage stand in contrast to those of their rivals in the opposing party slogging through diners in early-voting states and clashing in debate.  This trip, in particular, reflects a Trump campaign strategy to showcase him in his presidential role during short, carefully managed trips that provide counter-programming to the Democrats' primary contest and produce the kinds of visuals his campaign can use in future ads.  His aides also believe the visit could help the president woo tens of thousands of Indian-American voters before the November election. The visit also comes at a crucial moment for Modi, a fellow populist, who has provided over a steep economic downtown and unfulfilled campaign promises about job creation.  When Trump touches down in Delhi late Monday, he will find a bustling, noisy, colorful capital that also is dotted with half-finished construction projects stalled due to disappearing funding. The president on Tuesday will conclude his whirlwind visit to India with a day in the capital, complete with a gala dinner meetings with Modi over stalled trade talks between the two nations.  The two nations are closely allied, in part to act as a bulwark against the rising influence of nearby China, but trade tensions between the two countries have escalated since the Trump administration imposed tariffs on steel and aluminium from India.  India responded with higher penalties on agricultural goods and restrictions on US medical devices.  The US retaliated by removing India from a decades-old preferential trade program. Eyes will also be on whether Trump weighs on in the protests enveloping India over its Citizenship Amendment Act.  It provides a fast track to naturalization for some migrants who entered the country illegally while fleeing religious persecution, but excludes Muslims, raising fears that the country is moving toward a religious citizenship test. Passage has prompted large-scale protests and a violent crackdown. Typically, Trump has not publicly rebuked world leaders for human rights abuses during his overseas trips.  But one senior administration official said the US is concerned about the situation and that Trump will tell Modi the world is looking to India to continue to uphold its democratic traditions and respect religious minorities. 
