china
{ By Wayne Flower In Melbourne For Daily Mail Australia and Nic White   Published:  05:30, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036639/Households-FOURTH-recycling-bin-evidence-grows-sorting-rubbish-waste-time.html }
Victorian kerbsides are set to become wheelie colourful next year with its Premier forcing councils to implement yet another recycling bin.  In scenes reminiscent of children's entertainers The Wiggles, Victorian bins will now feature purple, green, yellow and red lids.  The move follows the Andrews Government's decision to force all 79 councils to provide separate bins for glass, household waste, food and garden organic products, and plastic, metal and paper recycling.  The new bins will be funded by a $129 million package to reform the state’s kerbside recycling sector, with special arrangements to be developed for apartments and residents in rural areas.  The announcement comes just months after it was revealed only 12 per cent of the 103kg of plastic waste generated per person in Australia each year is recycled, mostly overseas. In August, Prime Minister Scott Morrison pointed out that there was an 'implied promise' that when people put their recycling out it would actually be turned into something else. 'People think [plastic] is going to be recycled but only about 12 per cent of it is,' he said. Australia used to ship enormous amounts of waste to China, sell it for up to $150 a tonne, and then wash its hands of it. Much of it was recycled to fuel the country's boom, but the industry was largely unregulated and dozens of dodgy operators burned or dumped it. Then in January 2018 the Chinese Government decided enough was enough and banned the importing of 99 per cent of recycling. Australia's worst waste was usually palmed off to China, much of it too contaminated or low quality to be worth anything. Now only a 0.5 per cent contamination rate is tolerated and the vast majority of Australian sorting facilities just can't meet that. India, Malaysia, and the Philippines followed suit over the past year so Australia turned to Indonesia, Bangladesh, and Vietnam. They each receive tens of thousands of tonnes of supposed recycling - Bangladesh alone took 51,400 in May, up 270 per cent from last year's average. Indonesia is about the same. However, these countries don't have anything like the capacity China did, and aren't any more scrupulous about what they do with it. Around Indonesia, the streets and rice fields of villages are now used to harvest piles of rubbish as they are laid out to dry in the sun by locals. The waste is then sorted and sold to tofu factories where it is burned in their furnaces as a cheap alternative to wood. Australian companies are slowly waking up to the reality that this state of affairs is not sustainable. An Environment and Energy Department report painted a dire picture of Australia's predicament should more Asian countries close their doors. 'Australia would need to find substitute domestic or export markets for approximately 1.29 million tonnes (or $530 million) of waste a year, based on 2017-18 export amounts,' the report said. The Australian-first scheme to be implemented by the Victorian state government could see councils pass on the cost to ratepayers of increasing their waste collection service. 'But I think people are up for that, they want to see more recycling, more end uses, jobs created and less landfill, and that’s exactly what this policy will achieve,' Mr Andrews said. Part of the initiative will see Victoria have a container deposit scheme similar to South Australia.  Mr Andrews said the initiatives would reduce waste going to landfill by 80 per cent in ten years and signal good news for all Victorians.  'This transformation will position Victoria as a national leader in recycling. Most importantly, it will deliver a system that Victorians can actually rely on,' he said.      
