china
{ By Associated Press   Published:  03:43, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8036627/Overwatch-postpones-Seoul-esports-matches-virus.html }
SEOUL (AP) - The Overwatch League is postponing three weeks' worth of scheduled matches in Seoul amid reports that Asia's virus outbreak is spreading in South Korea. The league previously postponed matches scheduled for three cities in China this month and rescheduled them for March in Seoul due to the COVID-19 illness, which is caused by a newly identified coronavirus that has infected tens of thousands of people, mostly in China. Those matches, along with previously scheduled home dates for the Seoul Dynasty, have now been postponed. "In order to protect the health and safety of our players, fans, & staff, we are canceling plans to host OWL 2020 matches in South Korea in Weeks 5, 6, and 7, including the Seoul Dynasty home event," the league said in a statement. "We´ll share more info about when and where matches will take place at a later." South Korea on Monday reported 161 more cases of the virus in the city of Daegu, bringing the nation's total to 763 cases and seven confirmed deaths from the outbreak. This is the first year for OWL's unprecedented global schedule including host matches for its 20 city-based franchises in Asia, North America and Europe. FILE - In this July 28, 2018, file photo, London Spitfire fan Rick Ybarra, of Plainfield, Ind., reacts after London won the second game against the Philadelphia Fusion during the Overwatch League Grand Finals competition at Barclays Center in New York. The Overwatch League took another step in its ambitious vision when franchises in Dallas and New York hosted season-opening matches last weekend. They were the first of 52 scheduled events on OWL's home-and-away calendar requiring teams to visit host arenas for all 20 teams spanning Europe, North America and Asia. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer, File) The Dynasty are the only franchise based in esports-obsessed South Korea. The team had planned to host matches spanning March 7-22 at the landmark Dongdaemun Design Plaza. The next Overwatch League matches scheduled in Seoul are May 9-10. ___ More AP esports: https://apnews.com/Esports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports 
