china
{ By Charlie Coë For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:28, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036033/Neil-Mitchell-says-Australia-selling-national-dignity-coronavirus-ban-exemption.html }
Broadcaster Neil Mitchell has accused the Australian government of 'selling its national dignity' by allowing Chinese students to bypass the coronavirus travel ban. Foreign students trying to fly from the Chinese mainland to Australia to study can travel via a third country - thereby staying outside China for the required two weeks. Western Sydney University also told its students last week it would subsidise $1500 in travel and accommodation costs for them to travel through a third country.  Speaking on his 3AW Mornings radio show, Mitchell said Australia was 'kowtowing to China' by allowing students to get around the ban. 'We need Chinese businesses, but at the moment we are selling out our national dignity, we are selling out our principles. There is no national pride,' he said. 'We've got to choose between what's right and what makes a dollar, and at the moment the dollar is winning. Mitchell also accused the Australian government of celebrating China's record on human rights. ''Let's celebrate their atrocities", that's what we're doing. "Let's celebrate their abuse of human rights,"' he added. He also referred to the news that Australian swimmer Mack Horton's old school - Caulfield Grammar in Melbourne - had shelved plans to name a new swimming pool complex after him. We say we’re a proud country. We say we stand up for ourselves, don’t bow to anybody - well, nobody but China. Australia is into a full on cultural cringe now, kowtowing to China. It’s based around the coronavirus and money. We don’t want to offend China and risk losing their students, their market, their buying power. We need Chinese businesses, but at the moment we are selling out our national dignity, we are selling out our principles. There is no national pride  We’ve got to choose between what’s right and what makes a dollar, and at the moment the dollar is winning.  Potentially, that threatens our health.  We’ve allowed students to get around the travel ban and come here regardless  Western Sydney University is even giving those students $1500 each so they can go through a third country transit to get around the travel ban   Let’s celebrate their atrocities, that’s what we’re doing. Let’s celebrate their abuse of human rights  None of this is aimed at the Chinese people. I am criticising their government, I am criticising our government, I am certainly criticising the Mack Horton decision.  Two out of those three criticisms would have me locked up in China and never heard of again.  'Caulfield Grammar stood with the cheats, all because of a dollar! They've got a campus in China and they've got Chinese students, so decency ran second,' Mitchell said. Horton refused to join Chinese rival Sun Yang on the podium at the swimming world championships in South Korea last year, and previously labelled him a 'drug cheat' at the 2016 Rio Olympic Games.   One Nation leader Pauline Hanson also slammed Chinese students for exploiting a legal loophole to sneak back into Australia. She called for universities to be liable if other students catch the disease, saying officials only care about 'money from foreign students'.  In the space of two days on Friday and Saturday nearly 1,500 Chinese students used the exception in government rules to fly to Australia. The Australian government's ban on those coming from mainland China was extended last week until February 29, affecting an estimated 65,000 Chinese students.   The ban can be dodged though by going through a country which does not have a travel ban on travellers from China - including Thailand, Cambodia, the United Arab Emirates and Japan.  The University of Adelaide is meanwhile offering a care package worth about $5000 to about 3000 Chinese students.  The package includes a 20 per cent discount on semester one tuition fees and up to $2000 towards airfares which they can access only once the travel ban is lifted.  It also offered online study help including videos of lectures, peer networking support and library resources so Chinese students who cannot be on campus by the March 26 start date, so can keep up with their courses remotely.      NEW SOUTH WALES: 4   January 25 January 27  VICTORIA: 6 January 25 January 29 January 30 February 1  February 22   QUEENSLAND: 8 January 29 January 30 February 4 February 5   February 6 SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 3 February 1 WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 1 February 21   JAPAN: 15     
