china
{ By Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  22:59, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8035767/Pauline-Hanson-slams-Chinese-students-exploiting-loophole-beat-coronavirus-travel-ban.html }
Politician Pauline Hanson has slammed Chinese students for exploiting a legal loophole to sneak back into Australia amid the coronavirus outbreak. She called for universities to be liable if other students catch the disease, saying officials only care about 'money from foreign students'.  A travel ban is in place to keep Australians safe from the deadly disease, which has killed more than 2,000 people worldwide. It means travellers, including students, are not allowed to enter Australia if they have been in China in the previous 14 days.  But students from China are finding ways to work around the ban, brought in by Scott Morrison, with 1,477 students flying in on Friday and Saturday alone. Thousands more are expected in the coming week, with students arriving in Australia via transit countries such as Malaysia.  'If any Australian kid catches coronavirus from any of these foreign students that come here, will the university be held liable?', Ms Hanson, who is leader of One Nation and a senator for Queensland, said. 'We know that the universities in Australia are not for the Australian students.   'It is all for foreign students and they rely on that, that money coming into the country.    'They use it as back door to get their permanent residency to Australia and then they send their own kids out here to get the free education.  'It is disgraceful what is happening.'    Passengers arriving in Australia are required under Australian law to identify themselves and provide certain information. When you arrive in Australia from a foreign country, you are given a passenger card to fill in. One of the boxes asks for the name of the 'country in which you boarded the flight'. But this Chinese student wrote 'Hong Kong' in this section, despite starting his journey in China. With this, he claims authorities did not question him and simply waved him through. If he had written 'China' in the box, he would have been stopped and questioned.   Speaking on Today on Monday morning, she said universities shouldn't be helping Chinese students get back to Australia to continue their studies. Daily Mail Australia exposed the worrying loophole earlier this month and alerted the Department of Home Affairs and the Australian Border Force to the breach, but did they did not respond to requests for comment.  One student bragged to friends about how he flouted the coronavirus travel ban, putting thousands in danger of contracting the deadly disease.  He admitted to lying to officials by claiming he arrived from Hong Kong, when he in fact flew to Sydney from mainland China. Ms Hanson also used her Today appearance to defended controversial comments about the horrific Brisbane murder-suicide, saying 'these things happen'. In a crime which rocked Australia on Wednesday, Hannah Clarke, 31, was murdered by her estranged husband along with her three young children. Aaliyah, 6, Laianah, 4, and Trey, 3, were burned alive by their own father on their way to school after he poured petrol in their car and lit a flame. But Ms Hanson said the cowardly murders shouldn't lead to people 'bastardising all men' - saying Baxter could have been 'driven to it'. 'Don't bastardise all men out there, or women for that matter, because these things happen,' she said on Monday morning. Speaking about domestic violence murders, she added that: 'A lot of people are driven to this, to do these acts for one reason or another.' The killings have led to calls for more protection for domestic violence victims, after Ms Clarke was emotionally, sexually and financially abused by Baxter for years.  Speaking on Today, Ms Hanson said the murders have been in the news more than if it was committed by a woman - and that Baxter may have been 'driven to it'. 'You know, this has been for a week we have been in the news nearly every day about this horrific tragedy,' she said on Today on Monday morning.   'But we don't hear much about it when a woman has murdered her children by driving a  car into a tree, she threw out a suicide note.  'Or the woman who doused her husband with fuel and set him alight an said she was possibly driven to it.  'Hopefully the family law inquiry will get to the bottom of it.' She defended commentator Bettina Arndt, who made controversial comments about the Baxter murders.  Some MPs want Arndt to be stripped of her Order of Australia, after she praised a Queensland police officer for saying Baxter may have been 'driven too far'. Queensland detective Mark Thompson was taken off the case after making the comments.  'Congratulations to the Queensland police for keeping an open mind and awaiting proper evidence, including the possibility that Rowan Baxter might have been 'driven too far',' Ms Arndt wrote on Twitter. 'But note the misplaced outrage. How dare police deviate from the feminist script of seeking excuses and explanations when women stab their partners to death, or drive their children into dams but immediately judging a man in these circumstances as simply representing the evil violence that is in all men.' Speaking about Ms Arndt's comments, Ms Hanson said she should not be stripped of her Australia Day honour. 'It was a horrendous act of what he did to his children,' she said.  'It was a tragedy and I am very deeply sorry for everyone.  'Family and friends involved in this treacherous of what he did to his former wife and his children.  'But Bettina Arndt should not be stripped of her Order of Australia. She is clearly stating what she thinks and what a police officer said.  'This is why I have pushed for the family law inquiry to get behind what is happening on this.' Her comments come as a close friend of Hannah described her courageous last moments after she was ambushed and burned alive by her estranged husband.  Simon Farmer - a family friend who was with Hannah in the Intensive Care Unit when she died after suffering burns to 97 per cent of her body - described the devoted mother's final minutes alive in gut-wrenching detail. 'She hung in there ... Until the last heartbeat brought a tidal wave of grief and anger,' he wrote on social media. 'You should all know how strong she was, she fought so hard.' The three youngsters died at the scene.  Their father then killed himself beside the car when he knew his evil deed was done.  Hannah was rushed to hospital, with Mr Farmer saying the only part of his friend that was not burnt was her foot. 'We were in the ICU and we knew there was no hope,' the father-of-three told The Australian. Sergeant David Beard shared the 31-year-old's dreams of becoming a police officer at a vigil held on Sunday evening in Brisbane to mourn the loss of the family-of-four. Hannah had spoken about her plans at a Police Citizens Youth Club while visiting a friend the day before she burned to death.  The mum-of-three had desperately tried to keep her young family safe from their evil dad, but was struggling after her domestic violence protection order was watered down.   It has since emerged that he subject Hannah to years of domestic violence, prompting the brave mum to finally leave him last November. There was a domestic violence order (DVO) in place, but she expressed frustration that the conditions wouldn't be enough to keep her family safe. Despite being stalked every day by her monstrous ex, the DVO was watered down to allow her husband to be a close as 100 metres from her. NEW SOUTH WALES: 4   January 25 January 27  VICTORIA: 6 January 25 January 29 January 30 February 1  February 22   QUEENSLAND: 8 January 29 January 30 February 4 February 5   February 6 SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 3 February 1 WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 1 February 21   JAPAN: 15        
