{ By Stephen Matthews Health Editor For Mailonline  and Sam Blanchard Senior Health Reporter For Mailonline and Rita Sobot In Spain For Mailonline   Published:  12:03, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-8042079/Austria-confirms-two-cases-coronavirus.html }
The deadly coronavirus is sweeping across Europe with the outbreak in Italy showing no signs of slowing down and Switzerland, Austria, Croatia and mainland Spain today recording their first cases of the killer infection that has spread to 40 countries or territories. All of the new European cases – two in Austria, one in Croatia, one in Switzerland, one in Barcelona and two in Tenerife – had travelled to northern Italy, which has been ravaged by the never-before-seen virus.  Italy has seen a dramatic surge in cases since Friday, with the number of infections soaring from just six to 322. The Italian death toll now stands at 11 after a 76-year-old woman today died in the northern city of Treviso, Veneto. Towns in Veneto and Lombardy regions were put on lockdown after a cluster of cases sprouted up, but new diagnoses have also been confirmed in the south.  Southern Germany reported its first positive case tonight - a 25-year-old man from Baden-Wuerttemberg who recently visited Milan.  Italy's spike in cases comes after thousands of British families returned from half-term breaks and school skiing trips. Easter holidays – another popular time to go abroad – is just five weeks away.   The British Foreign Office has now advised against all but essential travel to the 11 northern towns in isolation.  More than 80,000 people across the world have been infected, while at least 2,700 are known to have died from the pneumonia-causing virus.  Europe already had a handful of cases of the coronavirus before Italy's outbreak took hold – but almost 360 patients have been struck down across the continent.  In other developments to the escalating coronavirus crisis today: The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice to Italy because of the coronavirus outbreak in some parts of the country. A spokesman said: 'We advise against all but essential travel to 10 small towns in Lombardy and one in Veneto, which are currently in isolation due to an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus. 'Any British nationals already in these towns should follow the advice of the local authorities.' The new advice reads: 'The FCO advises against all but essential travel to 10 small towns in Lombardy (Codogno, Castiglione d'Adda, Casalpusterlengo, Fombio, Maleo, Somaglia, Bertonico, Terranova dei Passerini, Castelgerundo and San Fiorano) and one in Veneto (Vo' Euganeo) which have been isolated by the Italian authorities due to an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus.' Existing advice, which applies more broadly to at least the past fortnight, says people should follow the self-isolation protocol if they feel ill after coming home from China, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia or Macau. Anyone coming home from the Hubei province of China should self-isolate even if they don't feel ill. The passport-free Schengen zone remains open and Italy's neighbours have pledged to keep their borders open for now.   Health officials in Tenerife this afternoon confirmed the island's second case, and the country's fifth – the wife of an Italian doctor who also tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.  The woman was whisked off to be quarantined in a hospital in Santa Cruz.  Earlier this afternoon Spain confirmed its fourth case of coronavirus and first on the mainland – a 36-year-old Italian citizen living in Barcelona who had visited the coronavirus-hit region of Italy the week before.  She is being treated in isolation at Barcelona's Hospital Clinic. A German man on the island of La Gomera was the Spain's first case on January 31. A British holidaymaker in Mallorca was announced days later.   Switzerland also reported its first case of new coronavirus today – a man in his 70s who was infected near Milan where he attended an event on February 15. Federal health office chief Pascal Strupler said man is from the Italian-speaking canton of Ticino on the border with Italy and has been with his family since suffering the first symptoms on February 17. He is now in isolation in a hospital and anyone who has come into contact with him since his return from Milan will be tested and placed in quarantine for 14 days. 'His state of health is good,' the health office said in a statement, adding that the risk of contagion for Switzerland as a whole remained only 'moderate'. But it also said that, because of the proximity to Italy, 'the probability is growing that other cases will be diagnosed'.  Prior to this case, Switzerland had tested some 300 suspect cases that were all found to be negative.  The government said on Monday that it had stepped up testing on patients with flu-like symptoms and was working to raise awareness at all border points.  The vast majority of confirmed infections of the Wuhan coronavirus have been diagnosed in China. But more than 25 countries or territories outside of the mainland have also declared infections:  COUNTRIES   CHINA SOUTH KOREA DIAMOND PRINCESS ITALY JAPAN IRAN SINGAPORE HONG KONG US THAILAND TAIWAN BAHRAIN MALAYSIA AUSTRALIA VIETNAM GERMANY UK UAE FRANCE CANADA MACAU KUWAIT IRAQ SPAIN OMAN INDIA PHILLIPINES AUSTRIA RUSSIA ISRAEL SWITZERLAND CROATIA AFGHANISTAN NEPAL CAMBODIA BELGIUM LEBANON FINLAND SWEDEN EGYPT SRI LANKA WORLD TOTAL   CASES 77,660 977  691                                   316 160 95 90 84 53 37 31 23 22 22 16 16 13 13 12 11 10 8 5 5 4 3 3 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 80,397  DEATHS 2,663 10 4                                       7 1 16 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  2,706       Authorities in the western Austrian state of Tyrol today also confirmed two cases of coronavirus – a couple who are both 24 years old and from the Bergarmo area in Lombardy.  The woman fell ill Saturday and developed a fever Sunday, said Guenter Weiss, a senior doctor at Innsbruck's university hospital. The woman's boyfriend got a fever and a sore throat Sunday. The couple reported themselves to authorities yesterday. Both are in a stable condition with only mild symptoms but will be kept in isolation until the weekend. Mr Weiss said other cases 'may still come'.  Franz Katzgraber, the head of the Tyrol state health department, said authorities are currently tracing possible contacts the patients may have had in Austria. Herbert Kickl, a former Austrian interior minister who heads the far-right Freedom Party, immediately called for border crossings to be 'reduced to a minimum'.   The government in Croatia also today confirmed a case of COVID-19 in a young man who had stayed in Milan between Wednesday, February 19 and Friday 21.  He is now in hospital in Zagreb, the capital city, and has only 'mild symptoms'. Health Minister Vili Beros said: 'For now he shows signs of a milder disease and we hope it will remain that way.'  The cases in Croatia and Austria confirm fears that a sudden outburst of cases in the tourist-heavy north of Italy could spread the virus around the continent. The Lombardy region, around Milan and into the Alps, has borne the brunt of the outbreak there. Around 200 people were confirmed to be infected with COVID-19 over the weekend. The sudden outbreak sparked panic across Europe, with buses and trains carrying Italian passengers across borders halted after those on board reported symptoms. The government has shut down at least 35 roads surrounding a cluster of towns in Lombardy, where the virus began to spread rapidly. Those who attempted to leave were reportedly threatened with three-month prison sentences.  There have also been confirmed cases in the Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Piemonte and Emilia-Romagna regions. In lockdown are around a dozen places to the south of Milan including Castelgerundo, Terranova dei Passerini, Bertonico, San Fiorano, Maleo, Codogno, Somaglia and Fombio. A World Health Organization spokesperson today said that Italy's shutdown measures were 'pretty strong' and should successfully contain the virus. The UK Government today updated its advice and told all Britons who have been to northern Italy to self-isolate at home if they start to feel ill. The updated advice has also told people to stay at home for two weeks if they have returned from Iran or the cities of Daeugu or Cheongdo in South Korea, which have been battered by the deadly infection. Travellers from Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar have been told to self-isolate if they have flu-like symptoms, such as a cough or a fever. UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Sky News today: 'We're saying that those who have been in Northern Italy, if they feel ill [with] flu-like symptoms, then you should self-isolate, stay at home, try not to see other people.  Two British schools have closed and a dozen more have told pupils and staff to go into self-isolation amid coronavirus scares after half-term skiing trips to virus-hit parts of Italy. At least two schools have closed for the rest of the week – Cransley School in Northwich, Cheshire, and Trinity Catholic College in Middlesbrough – so they can be deep cleaned.     Pupils and staff at schools in Cornwall, Cheshire, Yorkshire, Berkshire, Pembrokeshire, London and Northern Ireland were today sent home to quarantine themselves.  It comes as the Government advised all Britons who have come from northern Italy to self-isolate at home if they start to suffer flu-like symptoms.   Italy has suffered a devastating rise in cases since Friday, with the number of people being infected soaring by more than 300, most in the Alpine region of Lombardy, and 10 are now dead.    The mounting coronavirus fears come after a dozen schools in Brighton told parents about suspected patients after a spate of cases earlier this month.  'If you've been to Italy to the areas that are being quarantined by the Italian government then you should stay at home and self-isolate even if you don't have any symptoms.' He added that the government doesn't think there are any Brits in the quarantined area but it cannot be certain. 'This development in Italy is obviously very worrying because it's a significant outbreak,' Mr Hancock said. 'But throughout this outbreak ... we've been clear that we expect cases here, so people shouldn't be surprised that there are cases this close to home, but it just shows how important preparations are.' When asked whether he would travel to Italy, Mr Hancock said it would be 'perfectly reasonable' to go to the south of the country, but that he is 'not planning on going' to the north.  In other developments to the outbreak, British tourists trapped in a Tenerife hotel after an Italian visitor and his wife tested positive for coronavirus will discover their fate tonight. Around 1,000 guests are being kept inside the H10 Costa Adeje Palace with padlocks on the doors, police patrolling the complex and the resort 'closed down' over virus fears. The panic was sparked when an Italian doctor tested positive yesterday, and the results of his second test are due back from Madrid tonight. If he tests positive for a second time, the trapped tourists are likely to face a longer quarantine. Authorities will announce their plans in a press conference at 8pm local time (7pm UK time) this evening.  One British couple at the hotel, David Hoon and Pamela Scott, voiced their fear today that 'we stand more chance of catching the coronavirus' during the hotel lockdown. Speaking to MailOnline, they claimed hotel staff were failing to keep them informed and said they were surviving on meagre snacks after being locked in their rooms.    In other developments today, Italy has confirmed its first case of coronavirus in the south after a holidaymaker from the north fell sick while visiting Sicily with her husband and friends. The 66-year-old woman, from Bergamo, travelled to the Sicilian capital of Palermo on Friday morning before her home region of Lombardy was put on lockdown following a surge in cases. But she began showing flu-like symptoms around 2.30pm Monday and was quarantined to her room at the Mercure hotel in the city centre, before being taken to hospital after a test came back positive. Mayor Leoluca Orlando said the hotel remains open but the woman's room has been secured. Another 29 people who arrived with her from Bergamo have been quarantined in their rooms, while 20 staff are also on lockdown. Authorities are in the process of tracking down airline passengers and other people she came into contact with during her visit, he told Palermo Today . Her husband is also suspected of having the disease. News that the infection had spread south sparked panic-buying in Palermo on Tuesday as shoppers stripped supermarket shelves bare and raided pharmacies for medical supplies.  Two British schools have closed and a dozen more have told pupils and staff to go into self-isolation amid coronavirus scares after half-term skiing trips to virus-hit parts of Italy. At least two schools have closed for the rest of the week – Cransley School in Northwich, Cheshire, and Trinity Catholic College in Middlesbrough – so they can be deep cleaned.     Pupils and staff at schools in Cornwall, Cheshire, Yorkshire, Berkshire, Pembrokeshire, London and Northern Ireland were today sent home to quarantine themselves.  It comes as the Government advised all Britons who have come from northern Italy to self-isolate at home if they start to suffer flu-like symptoms.   Italy has suffered a devastating rise in cases since Friday, with the number of people being infected soaring by more than 300, most in the Alpine region of Lombardy, and 10 are now dead.    The mounting coronavirus fears come after a dozen schools in Brighton told parents about suspected patients after a spate of cases earlier this month.  In other developments today, Italy has confirmed its first case of coronavirus in the south after a holidaymaker from the north fell sick while visiting Sicily with her husband and friends. The 66-year-old woman, from Bergamo, travelled to the Sicilian capital of Palermo on Friday morning before her home region of Lombardy was put on lockdown following a surge in cases. But she began showing flu-like symptoms around 2.30pm Monday and was quarantined to her room at the Mercure hotel in the city centre, before being taken to hospital after a test came back positive. Mayor Leoluca Orlando said the hotel remains open but the woman's room has been secured. Another 29 people who arrived with her from Bergamo have been quarantined in their rooms, while 20 staff are also on lockdown. Chinese state media today reported that scientists have developed an oral vaccine for the new coronavirus using baker's yeast. A professor in charge of the project has reportedly taken four doses of the drug without having any side effects. However, the expert said the product was still 'far from' being sold on the market because it needed to pass animal tests and clinical trials.  The news was announced by Professor Huang Jinhai from the School of Life Sciences at Tianjin University and reported by state newspaper People's Daily. The immunisation uses food-grade saccharomyces cerevisiae, or baker's yeast, as the carrier and aims at the Spike protein of the virus, Professor Huang said. It helps people generate antibodies against the deadly virus.  Authorities are in the process of tracking down airline passengers and other people she came into contact with during her visit, he told Palermo Today . Her husband is also suspected of having the disease. News that the infection had spread south sparked panic-buying in Palermo on Tuesday as shoppers stripped supermarket shelves bare and raided pharmacies for medical supplies.  Chinese state media today reported that scientists have developed an oral vaccine for the new coronavirus using baker's yeast. A professor in charge of the project has reportedly taken four doses of the drug without having any side effects. However, the expert said the product was still 'far from' being sold on the market because it needed to pass animal tests and clinical trials.  The news was announced by Professor Huang Jinhai from the School of Life Sciences at Tianjin University and reported by state newspaper People's Daily. The immunisation uses food-grade saccharomyces cerevisiae, or baker's yeast, as the carrier and aims at the Spike protein of the virus, Professor Huang said. It helps people generate antibodies against the deadly virus.  Schools could be shut and football matches cancelled if the coronavirus outbreak becomes a global pandemic, the UK's top doctor have warned. Professor Chris Whitty, England's chief medical officer, revealed there are a number of contingency plans if the killer virus begins to spread. Other measures to contain the deadly infection include reducing public transport, quarantining entire families and cancelling church services and concerts. Scotland's chief medical officer, Dr Catherine Calderwood, also warned gatherings of people could be called off if coronavirus breaks out in the UK.  Drastic precautions have already been taken in parts of Italy, where more than 200 patients have been struck down by COVID-19. Seven people have died.   Schools could be shut and football matches cancelled if the coronavirus outbreak becomes a global pandemic, the UK's top doctor have warned. Professor Chris Whitty, England's chief medical officer, revealed there are a number of contingency plans if the killer virus begins to spread. Other measures to contain the deadly infection include reducing public transport, quarantining entire families and cancelling church services and concerts. Scotland's chief medical officer, Dr Catherine Calderwood, also warned gatherings of people could be called off if coronavirus breaks out in the UK.  Drastic precautions have already been taken in parts of Italy, where more than 200 patients have been struck down by COVID-19. Seven people have died.  So far the virus has not taken hold in the UK – only 13 people have been diagnosed, including four passengers evacuated from a cruise ship in Japan.   Speaking at the Department of Health and Social Care in central London, Professor Whitty said a number of options will be looked at depending on the scale of infection. He added: 'There's no secret there's a variety of things you need to look at, you look at things like school closures, you look at things like reducing transport. 'The expectation is not that we will do all these things, the expectation is we will be looking systematically, using the science, at all the building blocks and balancing the effects against costs to society.' And the world is 'simply not ready' to rein in the new coronavirus outbreak, the head of a joint WHO-China mission of experts said today. 'You have to be ready to manage this at a larger scale... and it has to be done fast,' Bruce Aylward told reporters in Geneva, insisting countries everywhere have to 'be ready as if this hits us tomorrow'.  Italy and its neighbours have decided not to close their borders over the coronavirus, saying it would be a disproportionate and ineffective measure, their health ministers said. The decision came at an emergency meeting in Rome over the outbreak of the virus in Italy between Health Minister Roberto Speranza and his counterparts from Austria, Croatia, France, Germany, Slovenia and Switzerland.  Iran's deputy HEALTH minister tests positive for coronavirus after looking shaky and unwell - but regime still refuses to close pilgrim city as death toll rises to 15 and cases are exported around the Middle East   Iran's deputy health minister has tested positive for coronavirus amid a rapidly worsening outbreak in the Islamic republic today. Iraj Harirchi was taken into quarantine just a day after sweating heavily at a press conference where he insisted that the outbreak was not as bad as feared. The virus's spread into the health ministry is the latest sign of Tehran's faltering efforts to contain the outbreak as the official death toll rose to 15 today. The regime has refused to seal off the holy city of Qom at the centre of the crisis even as pilgrims spread the virus around the Middle East and Iranians face shortages of masks and testing kits.  Even according to official figures, Iran has the worst virus outbreak in the Middle East with at least 95 people now infected - an increase of 34 since yesterday - and three new deaths bringing the toll to 15. However, there is strong suspicion that the true figures are much higher, with one lawmaker declaring yesterday that 50 people had died in the city of Qom. At least 16 people in Iran are now known to have died, and 95 have been infected, from the deadly coronavirus that has rapidly swept the world over the past two months. But Iranian health officials have been forced to deny a cover-up, after a lawmaker in the Islamic Republic's epicentre of Qom claimed there had been 50 deaths in the city alone. Iran's Health Ministry has now urged residents to stay at home while the country battles the outbreak, while its neighbours have shut their doors to contain the deadly virus. SO, HOW HAVE COUNTRIES REACTED TO IRAN'S CORONAVIRUS CRISIS? Qom, where the virus is believed to have arrived in Iran from China, is a major destination for Shi'ite pilgrims from around the Middle East. Around 20million pilgrims visit the city every year, and Iran would find it difficult to shut its porous borders with neighbours including Afghanistan and Pakistan. A series of Middle East governments have imposed travel bans after the virus spread across the region while Turkey today ordered a jet to be diverted on its way from Tehran to Istanbul. But despite the growing crisis, Iran has rejected calls to lock down Qom - saying today that people were 'cultured enough' to avoid spreading the virus elsewhere. Iranians had been facing shortages of medical supplies even before the new coronavirus broke out in Qom. The medical shortages kicked in after Donald Trump pulled the U.S. out of the 2015 nuclear deal and reimposed crippling sanctions on Iran in 2018. Since then, panic has broken out over a lack of face masks, with health experts still unsure exactly how the virus spreads. Health workers also face a lack of testing kits, meaning that coronavirus cases could go unnoticed for days - allowing the outbreak to spread further. There are also claims that pharmacies are facing shortages of hand-sanitising gels which could help to contain the outbreak in Qom and around the country. Washington had exempted humanitarian goods including medicines and medical equipment from its punitive measures. But purchases of such supplies are hindered by banks being wary of conducting any business with Iran, for fear of falling foul of sanctions themselves. Qom lawmaker Ahmad Amirabadi Farahani told a session of parliament in Tehran yesterday that 50 people had died in the holy city. 'I think the performance of the administration in controlling the virus has not been successful,' he said, in the most public rebuke of the Iranian regime to date. Farahani said the 50 deaths in Qom date back to February 13, whereas Iran first officially reported cases of the virus on February 19. He also claimed that 250 people had been quarantined in the city, which is around 75 miles south of Tehran. 'None of the nurses have access to proper protective gears,' Farahani said, adding that some health care specialists had left the city. Cases in the UK:  Newcastle: Two Chinese nationals who came to the UK with coronavirus and fell ill while at a hotel in York. One was a student in the city and the other was his mother. They were the first two cases on British soil and were confirmed on January 31. They were treated at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary and have since been released. Steve Walsh:  The first British coronavirus victim became known as a super-spreader. He picked up the virus in Singapore and flew for a ski break in France afterwards where he appears to have infected at least 11 people. He was taken to St Thomas' Hospital in London from Brighton on February 6 – but was released on February 12 after recovering. Dr Catriona Saynor, who went on holiday with Mr Walsh and her husband, Bob, and their three children, is thought to be the fourth patient in the UK diagnosed with coronavirus. Her husband and nine-year-old son were also diagnosed but remained in France. She was taken to a hospital in London on February 9 from Brighton. She was thought to be at the Royal Free in Camden, but has since been released. Four more people in Brighton were diagnosed and were all 'known contacts' of the super-spreader and are thought to have stayed in the same French resort. One is known to be an A&E doctor and is believed to have worked at Worthing Hospital. Another attended a bus conference in Westminster on February 6. They were all treated in London and have now been sent home. London: The first case of the coronavirus in London brought the total number of cases in the UK to nine. The woman was diagnosed on February 12, after going to A&E in an Uber. She was then taken to St Thomas' Hospital. She is thought to have flown into the UK from China the weekend before, with officials confirming she caught the virus there.  Merseyside: Four out of 32 people who were evacuated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan were diagnosed with the virus when they got home, on Sunday January 23. They are thought to have been taken to the Royal Liverpool University Hospital, which is close to Arrowe Park Hospital where the other 28 passengers are in quarantine. Total in UK hospitals: 13 patients – 10 Britons and three Chinese nationals  British expats and holidaymakers outside the UK and where they are being cared for: Majorca: A British father-of-two who stayed in the French ski resort with Steve Walsh tested positive after returning to his home in Majorca. His wife and children were not ill. France: Five people who were in the chalet with the super-spreader. These include the chalet's owner, environmental consultant Bob Saynor, 48, and his nine-year-old son. They were all in a French hospital with three unnamed others. Another Brit who stayed at a chalet in the Les Contamines-Montjoie resort tested positive on February 15.  Japan: Alan Steele, a British man on board the Diamond Princess cruise ship docked at a port in Japan, tested positive for coronavirus. Mr Steele, of Wolverhampton, posted on Facebook that he had been diagnosed with the virus. He was on his honeymoon. Three more Britons – including David and Sally Abel – have since tested positive for on a quarantined cruise ship. Total: Eleven  'So far, I have not seen any particular action to confront corona by the administration.' Health minister Harirchi rejected the Qom lawmaker's claims, insisting the death toll from the virus remains at 12. The plane was actually shot down by Iranian Revolutionary Guards at the height of Tehran's stand-off with Washington after the death of Qassem Soleimani. The coronavirus outbreak has sparked renewed criticism of the regime by Iranian social media users in recent days. 'Widespread public mistrust regarding the official figures is more dangerous than the coronavirus,' journalist Siavash Fallahpour said. Harirchi's denials lost further credibility today when he himself came down with the virus. The minister said he had quarantined himself at his home and promised that authorities would bring the virus under control. Harirchi had looked visibly uncomfortable and wiped his sweaty forehead with a handkerchief during yesterday's press conference. Iran's health minister Saeed Namaki has defended Iran's handling of the outbreak, saying it was being 'transparent' despite the contradictory figures. Namaki told state TV that officials were nearly certain the virus came from China to Qom in central Iran. He also said that among those who died from the virus was a merchant who regularly shuttled between the two countries using indirect flights in recent weeks. However, he did not say whether the regime had taken any steps to quarantine people who had come into contact with the merchant. Namaki today defended the decision not to lock down the city of Qom, saying that quarantine is an 'old method'. 'We still do not agree with quarantining cities since we believe the people are cultured enough to refrain from travelling from infected cities to other places,' semi-official news agency ISNA quoted him as saying. Bahram Sarmast, the governor of Qom, said last night that quarantining the city would not be an 'appropriate solution' despite the outbreak. Several of Iran's neighbours have shut their borders after countries including Kuwait, Bahrain and the UAE pointed the finger at Iran for their own virus outbreaks. Today a Turkish Airlines jet from Tehran to Istanbul made an unplanned landing in Ankara after 17 passengers on board were suspected of having coronavirus. Turkey's health minister Fahrettin Koca said the Turks on board were being repatriated due to the outbreak in Iran. Kuwait has reported eight cases of coronavirus, including patients who had recently flown from the Iranian city of Mashhad. The Iranian regime has yet to admit any virus cases in Mashhad, raising further doubts about its claims. Kuwait has already sealed off its transport links with Iran and was preparing to evacuate its citizens from the country. Around a third of Kuwait's 1.4 million citizens are Shiites, who travel regularly to Iran to visit religious shrines, while Kuwait also hosts roughly 50,000 Iranian workers. Bahrain announced its first case of the virus, saying a school bus driver had been infected after travelling from Iran via Dubai. The bus driver had transported students as recently as Sunday. The tally has since risen to eight patients, all of whom have made the same journey from Iran via the UAE - with flights from Dubai and Sharjah to Bahrain now suspended. Shortly after, the Bahraini authorities said citizens were banned from travelling to Iran 'until further notice'. More than half of Bahrain's population of under one million are Shiites, who also travel frequently to Iran. All flights from the UAE to Iran have also been suspended for at least a week with 13 cases now confirmed in the Emirates. 'All passenger and cargo aircraft traveling to and from Iran will be suspended for a period of one week, and could be up for extension,' officials said. Dubai International Airport, the world's busiest for international travel, said that 'all passengers arriving on direct flights from Tehran will receive thermal screening at the airport.' The latest cases in the UAE were a 70-year-old Iranian man, whose condition is unstable, and his 64-year-old wife. On Monday, Abu Dhabi authorities called on all UAE citizens 'to not travel to Iran and Thailand at present and up until further notice' as part of its efforts to monitor and contain the disease. Someone who is infected with the coronavirus can spread it with just a simple cough or a sneeze, scientists say. Over 2,700 people with the virus are now confirmed to have died and more than 80,000 have been infected. But experts predict the true number of people with the disease could be as high as 350,000 in Wuhan alone.  Here's what we know so far: What is the coronavirus?  A coronavirus is a type of virus which can cause illness in animals and people. Viruses break into cells inside their host and use them to reproduce itself and disrupt the body's normal functions. Coronaviruses are named after the Latin word 'corona', which means crown, because they are encased by a spiked shell which resembles a royal crown. The coronavirus from Wuhan is one which has never been seen before this outbreak. It has been named SARS-CoV-2 by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses. The name stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2. Experts say the bug, which has killed around one in 50 patients since the outbreak began in December, is a 'sister' of the SARS illness which hit China in 2002, so has been named after it. The disease that the virus causes has been named COVID-19, which stands for coronavirus disease 2019. Dr Helena Maier, from the Pirbright Institute, said: 'Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that infect a wide range of different species including humans, cattle, pigs, chickens, dogs, cats and wild animals.  'Until this new coronavirus was identified, there were only six different coronaviruses known to infect humans. Four of these cause a mild common cold-type illness, but since 2002 there has been the emergence of two new coronaviruses that can infect humans and result in more severe disease (Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronaviruses).  'Coronaviruses are known to be able to occasionally jump from one species to another and that is what happened in the case of SARS, MERS and the new coronavirus. The animal origin of the new coronavirus is not yet known.'  The first human cases were publicly reported from the Chinese city of Wuhan, where approximately 11million people live, after medics first started publicly reporting infections on December 31. By January 8, 59 suspected cases had been reported and seven people were in critical condition. Tests were developed for the new virus and recorded cases started to surge. The first person died that week and, by January 16, two were dead and 41 cases were confirmed. The next day, scientists predicted that 1,700 people had become infected, possibly up to 7,000. Just a week after that, there had been more than 800 confirmed cases and those same scientists estimated that some 4,000 – possibly 9,700 – were infected in Wuhan alone. By that point, 26 people had died.  By January 27, more than 2,800 people were confirmed to have been infected, 81 had died, and estimates of the total number of cases ranged from 100,000 to 350,000 in Wuhan alone. By January 29, the number of deaths had risen to 132 and cases were in excess of 6,000.   By February 5, there were more than 24,000 cases and 492 deaths. By February 11, this had risen to more than 43,000 cases and 1,000 deaths.  A change in the way cases are confirmed on February 13 – doctors decided to start using lung scans as a formal diagnosis, as well as laboratory tests – caused a spike in the number of cases, to more than 60,000 and to 1,369 deaths. By February 25, around 80,000 people had been infected and some 2,700 had died.  Where does the virus come from? According to scientists, the virus almost certainly came from bats. Coronaviruses in general tend to originate in animals – the similar SARS and MERS viruses are believed to have originated in civet cats and camels, respectively. The first cases of COVID-19 came from people visiting or working in a live animal market in Wuhan, which has since been closed down for investigation. Although the market is officially a seafood market, other dead and living animals were being sold there, including wolf cubs, salamanders, snakes, peacocks, porcupines and camel meat.  A study by the Wuhan Institute of Virology, published in February 2020 in the scientific journal Nature, found that the genetic make-up virus samples found in patients in China is 96 per cent identical to a coronavirus they found in bats. However, there were not many bats at the market so scientists say it was likely there was an animal which acted as a middle-man, contracting it from a bat before then transmitting it to a human. It has not yet been confirmed what type of animal this was. Dr Michael Skinner, a virologist at Imperial College London, was not involved with the research but said: 'The discovery definitely places the origin of nCoV in bats in China. 'We still do not know whether another species served as an intermediate host to amplify the virus, and possibly even to bring it to the market, nor what species that host might have been.'   So far the fatalities are quite low. Why are health experts so worried about it?  Experts say the international community is concerned about the virus because so little is known about it and it appears to be spreading quickly. It is similar to SARS, which infected 8,000 people and killed nearly 800 in an outbreak in Asia in 2003, in that it is a type of coronavirus which infects humans' lungs. It is less deadly than SARS, however. Another reason for concern is that nobody has any immunity to the virus because they've never encountered it before. This means it may be able to cause more damage than viruses we come across often, like the flu or common cold. Speaking at a briefing in January, Oxford University professor, Dr Peter Horby, said: 'Novel viruses can spread much faster through the population than viruses which circulate all the time because we have no immunity to them. 'Most seasonal flu viruses have a case fatality rate of less than one in 1,000 people. Here we're talking about a virus where we don't understand fully the severity spectrum but it's possible the case fatality rate could be as high as two per cent.' If the death rate is truly two per cent, that means two out of every 100 patients who get it will die.  'My feeling is it's lower,' Dr Horby added. 'We're probably missing this iceberg of milder cases. But that's the current circumstance we're in. 'Two per cent case fatality rate is comparable to the Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918 so it is a significant concern globally.' How does the virus spread? The illness can spread between people just through coughs and sneezes, making it an extremely contagious infection. And it may also spread even before someone has symptoms. It is believed to travel in the saliva and even through water in the eyes, therefore close contact, kissing, and sharing cutlery or utensils are all risky.  Originally, people were thought to be catching it from a live animal market in Wuhan city. But cases soon began to emerge in people who had never been there, which forced medics to realise it was spreading from person to person. There is now evidence that it can spread third hand – to someone from a person who caught it from another person. What does the virus do to you? What are the symptoms? Once someone has caught the COVID-19 virus it may take between two and 14 days, or even longer, for them to show any symptoms – but they may still be contagious during this time. If and when they do become ill, typical signs include a runny nose, a cough, sore throat and a fever (high temperature). The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia. Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people. What have genetic tests revealed about the virus?  Scientists in China have recorded the genetic sequences of around 19 strains of the virus and released them to experts working around the world.  This allows others to study them, develop tests and potentially look into treating the illness they cause.    Examinations have revealed the coronavirus did not change much – changing is known as mutating – much during the early stages of its spread. However, the director-general of China's Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Gao Fu, said the virus was mutating and adapting as it spread through people. This means efforts to study the virus and to potentially control it may be made extra difficult because the virus might look different every time scientists analyse it.    More study may be able to reveal whether the virus first infected a small number of people then change and spread from them, or whether there were various versions of the virus coming from animals which have developed separately. How dangerous is the virus?   The virus has a death rate of around two per cent. This is a similar death rate to the Spanish Flu outbreak which, in 1918, went on to kill around 50million people. However, experts say the true number of patients is likely considerably higher and therefore the death rate considerably lower. Imperial College London researchers estimate that there were 4,000 (up to 9,700) cases in Wuhan city alone up to January 18 – officially there were only 444 there to that date. If cases are in fact 100 times more common than the official figures, the virus may be far less dangerous than currently believed, but also far more widespread.  Experts say it is likely only the most seriously ill patients who are seeking help and are therefore recorded – the vast majority will have only mild, cold-like symptoms. For those whose conditions do become more severe, there is a risk of developing pneumonia which can destroy the lungs and kill them.  Can the virus be cured?  The COVID-19 virus cannot be cured and it is proving difficult to contain. Antibiotics do not work against viruses, so they are out of the question. Antiviral drugs can work, but the process of understanding a virus then developing and producing drugs to treat it would take years and huge amounts of money. No vaccine exists for the coronavirus yet and it's not likely one will be developed in time to be of any use in this outbreak, for similar reasons to the above. The National Institutes of Health in the US, and Baylor University in Waco, Texas, say they are working on a vaccine based on what they know about coronaviruses in general, using information from the SARS outbreak. But this may take a year or more to develop, according to Pharmaceutical Technology. Currently, governments and health authorities are working to contain the virus and to care for patients who are sick and stop them infecting other people. People who catch the illness are being quarantined in hospitals, where their symptoms can be treated and they will be away from the uninfected public. And airports around the world are putting in place screening measures such as having doctors on-site, taking people's temperatures to check for fevers and using thermal screening to spot those who might be ill (infection causes a raised temperature). However, it can take weeks for symptoms to appear, so there is only a small likelihood that patients will be spotted up in an airport. Is this outbreak an epidemic or a pandemic?    The outbreak is an epidemic, which is when a disease takes hold of one community such as a country or region.  Although it has spread to dozens of countries, the outbreak is not yet classed as a pandemic, which is defined by the World Health Organization as the 'worldwide spread of a new disease'. The head of WHO's global infectious hazard preparedness, Dr Sylvie Briand, said: 'Currently we are not in a pandemic. We are at the phase where it is an epidemic with multiple foci, and we try to extinguish the transmission in each of these foci,' the Guardian reported. She said that most cases outside of Hubei had been 'spillover' from the epicentre, so the disease wasn't actually spreading actively around the world. 
