china
{ By Emilia Jiang For Mailonline   Published:  11:44, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041665/Chinese-coronavirus-inspector-uses-kung-fu-moves-prevent-villager-entering.html }
A Chinese officer has been caught on camera performing martial art moves to stop a villager from returning to his home after his village was locked down due to the coronavirus. The video shows the community worker and his colleague standing guard behind a red ribbon stretched across the entire width of a road, preventing outsiders from entering. The male resident is seen in the footage arriving on his small electric bike and trying to cross the blockade. The cyclist says to the two black-suited officers: 'Just for a short while. I want to go home and have a look.' The villager is taken by surprise when the inspector screams and performs a backflip, followed by a spinning sweeping kick. The officer then does another kung fu move while the intimidated traveller gets back on his motorbike and rides off in a hurry.  It is believed that the incident took place in Shandong Province, eastern China as the visitor speaks with a heavy local accent. The officer was allegedly one of the volunteering villagers who acted as checkpoint security guards during the coronavirus outbreak. The village has reportedly imposed self-isolation measures amid the deadly epidemic, with no one allowed to enter or leave the area.    The novel coronavirus, which was first discovered in Wuhan, has so far killed 2,705 people and infected over 80,326 people globally. Iran's coronavirus death toll has risen to 15 today with the regime refusing to seal off the holy city at the centre of the crisis and pilgrims spreading the virus around the Middle East.    Italy now has at least seven deaths as the country imposes drastic security measures to contain the first major outbreak in Europe.   South Korea has confirmed an additional 84 cases of the coronavirus, bringing the total number of infections nationwide to 977. China's top legislative committee on Monday passed a proposal to ban all trade and consumption of wild animals, a practice believed responsible for the country's deadly disease.  Experts believe that the new coronavirus has been passed onto humans by wildlife sold as food, especially bats and snakes.  
