china
{ By Tracy You For Mailonline   Published:  11:15, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041631/Wuhan-woman-climbs-eight-storeys-bare-hands-locked-room.html }
A woman in Wuhan has climbed eight storeys down the outside of a high-rise building after her son allegedly locked her up in her room to prevent her from running away and getting infected with the coronavirus. The 62-year-old, said to suffer from schizophrenia, was carrying a pot of instant noodles in a bag when she made her way down with her bare hands. She reached the ground safely and was not hurt, according to local officials. The incident took place at a residential complex in Wuhan's Huangpi District yesterday afternoon, reported Chutian Urban Daily.  Footage circulating on social media shows a woman in a green top descending along an exterior wall of a tower block with a plastic bag in hand. She is seen holding onto the railings outside the balconies when she slowly moved down the façade. Online accounts suggested that the woman had escaped from her home to buy meat. But local officials denied the allegations. Officials told reporters that the woman had schizophrenia, and had refused to take medicine for her illness. They said she sneaked out of her home on February 16 and remained missing for eight days. When she returned yesterday, her son decided to lock her up in her room to stop her from running away, only to be informed that her mother had broken out of their flat again when he was not home, it is claimed. One local official told Red Star News: '[She] was intercepted by workers at a checkpoint in our village. [We] contacted her son and then took her to a hospital to have a check-up. She was found to be fine and we escorted her home along with her son. ' It is said checkpoint inspectors saw the woman holding a plastic bag, which contained a pot of instant noodles. The spokesperson added: 'We have told her son to look after her well.'  Originating in the Chinese city of Wuhan in Hubei Province, the new coronavirus - known as COVID-19 - has killed at least 2,663 and infected more than 77,660 people inside China.  Hubei, situated in central China, accounts for more than 80 per cent of the confirmed cases and 95 per cent of the deaths globally.  Wuhan, the provincial capital with 11 million residents, went into lockdown on January 23 in the wake of the outbreak. The majority part of Hubei then followed suit.  Overnight, the Hubei health officials reported 499 new cases out of a nationwide total of 508 and 68 of the 71 new deaths across China.   Globally, the coronavirus epidemic has killed at least 2,705 people, infected more than 80,320 and spread to at least two dozen countries. 
