china
{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  10:34, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041725/United-Airlines-pays-90-000-downgraded-business-class-passengers.html }
United Airlines was forced to give nine passengers travel vouchers worth $10,000 each after downgrading them from business class for an 11-hour flight.  The passengers were due to travel on Saturday from Newark to Hawaii with the airline on a Boeing 777, which has 50 business class seats.  However, the aircraft was swapped to a 27-year-old Boeing 767 which had six first class seats and a further 26 seats in business class. According to United, the passengers who were moved were offered seats in their 'Premium Plus' cabin, which has more leg room than the economy seats at the back of the aircraft.  United offered passengers due to sit in business class the option of moving further back in the aircraft for travel vouchers worth an estimated $10,000 due to the lack of space on the replacement aircraft.  Maddie King of United told CNN Travel: 'Occasionally we have to change aircraft at the last minute and when that happens, we try to do the right thing and make the impact to customers as minimal as possible.' Ms King said the passengers who agreed to the move were siting in the 'premium plus' cabin.    United spokeswoman Maddie King told CNN Travel. King confirmed that nine business class passengers volunteered to sit in a 'Premium Plus' cabin, which offers passengers more legroom and other benefits not found in a regular coach cabin. However, United Airlines has withdrawn its full-year 2020 forecast because of the impact of the coronavirus outbreak which as seen almost all services to China halted.    As a result of the outbreak, the company said it has suspended flights between the United States and Beijing, Chengdu, Shanghai and Hong Kong through April 24. A spokesperson said: 'Due to the heightened uncertainty surrounding this outbreak, its duration, its impact on overall demand for air travel and the possibility the outbreak spreads to other regions, the Company is withdrawing all full-year 2020 guidance issued on January 21, 2020,' United said in a regulatory filing.  
