cars
{  
    December 19 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/election-hoarding-may-have-been-factor-in-fatal-accident-inquest-told-27554284.html }
An 8 ft high election hoarding erected near a dangerous bend and which was said to have obstructed the view of traffic emerging from a house onto the main Sligo/Ballina road has been cited as one of the possible factors in a fatal accident in which a 21 years old man was killed l An 8 ft high election hoarding erected near a dangerous bend and which was said to have obstructed the view of traffic emerging from a house onto the main Sligo/Ballina road has been cited as one of the possible factors in a fatal accident in which a 21 years old man was killed last May. An inquest into the death of Leo Murphy, Glan, Culleens, Co. Sligo, heard that he may have been swerving to avoid a car emerging from the driveway when his car went out of control and collided with an oncoming van at Patch, Dromore West, on May 13th last. Weather conditions on the morning of the accident were described as "atrocious", and witnesses told how traffic emerging from the house would be screened from oncoming traffic by the election hoarding. The driver of the car emerging from the house, Mr. Jackie Flatley, who was said to have been the person who erected the election hoarding, failed to turn up for the inquest, which was adjourned when the Coroner, Dr. Desmond Moran, issued a summons for his attendance. Seamus Murray told the inquest he was driving his van from his home in Culleens towards Sligo on the morning of the accident.  Raining It was raining heavily and there was poor visibility. In the townland of Patch, Dromore West, he saw a green car coming towards him from the Sligo direction. The car seemed to be out of control and seemed to be in a skid and heading for a ditch on his left hand side of the road. Witness said the car then swerved across the road to its right and into the path of his van. He stood on his brakes and hit the car on the passenger side and both vehicles came to a stop. He got out of his van and went over to the car, where he saw the driver sitting in his seat and not moving. Witness added that he did not know what had made the other driver lose control. As far as he could see, there was no obstruction on his side of the road. In reply to Mr. Noel Kelly, solicitor for the Murphy family, witness said he did not see a red car emerging from Flatley's house on his right hand side. He agreed there was a large election poster erected outside Flatley's house which would have obstructed the view of a car coming from the opposite direction. Mary Kilgannon said she was driving from the Ballina direction towards Dromore West on the morning of the accident. As she approached Flatley's house which was on her right hand side, she saw a red car in the driveway of the house. This car was in the process of emerging from the driveway onto the roadway. The front of this car, about half the length of the bonnet, was actually on the road and had stopped. She did not think the two front wheels were on the road.  Swerved It was raining heavily and visibility was poor. Suddenly, she saw a green car coming from the Sligo direction. It was travelling fairly fast but not at a very high speed. She was aware for some time that there was a white van travelling behind her. This van had kept a safe distance from her at all times. As she passed the red car emerging from Flatley's, she saw the green car swerve to its right to avoid the red car. She thought the driver of the green car saw the red car at the last minute. She immediately looked in her wing mirror and saw the green car return to its correct side of the road. The driver of the green car then seemed to lose control of his car. The car swerved across the road to its right and into the path of the oncoming white van. "I could hear the squealing of the car tyres. The van hit the car and there was a loud bang and smoke", she said. Witness said she ran back to the green car and put her hand on the driver's head and asked him if he was alright. He made no reply, and she saw blood coming from his right ear. In a second statement made by Ms. Kilgannon, which was read to the jury, she said the two front wheels of the red car coming out of Flatley's house were not across the yellow line at the side of the road. She agreed that when the green car passed her, she was almost directly across from Jackie Flatley's house and that her car, the green car and the red car were almost three abreast when they met. She saw the green car approaching Flatley's house and it appeared to be in control. It was when he reached Flatley's driveway that he swerved at the last minute to avoid the red car. In relation to the election sign at the house, witness said it would prevent a motorist travelling from Sligo to Ballina from seeing a car emerging from the house until the last minute.  View obstructed "I feel that if the sign was not there, any car coming out of Flatley's house would be seen much earlier by someone travelling towards Ballina", she added. In a third statement read to the inquest, Ms. Kilgannon said she had since driven past Flatley's house to make sure she was correct in her earlier statements. She was quite sure that the green car that crashed had just passed Flatley's driveway and had swerved back onto its own side of the road to miss her. Cross-examined by Mr. Kelly, she said she was sure that the bonnet of Flatley's car had just about crossed the yellow line at the side of the road as it emerged from the driveway at the time of the accident. Asked about the election poster, she said she certainly would not have liked to be coming out of the driveway and attempting to turn right because the view was "very obstructed" by the poster. She believed the poster had been removed some time after the accident. She said the weather was extremely bad on the morning of the accident, with the water literally "running on the road". Lisa Mullaney, girlfriend of the deceased, said she last saw him when he left her to college in Sligo on the morning of the accident. When he left her that morning he was in great form. Garda Francis Bourke, Ballina, gave evidence of investigating the accident. On arrival at the scene at 9.20 a.m., he found two vehicles, a white van and a green Hyundai car, in a crashed condition on the left hand side of the roadway as one faced towards Dromore West.  Out of control The car apparently went out of control, veered sideways across the roadway, into the path of the van. As a result of the impact, the passenger side of the car was extensively damaged. The front was embedded in the hedge with the main body of the car across the grass margin and the two rear wheels on the road. On approaching the green car, he was informed that the driver, who was still seated behind the steering wheel, was dead. Dr. O'Gorman, Easkey, carried out a medical examination of the body and pronounced the driver dead at the scene. The driver of the van told him the driver of the green car seemed to lose control and swerved across the roadway into his path. He had braked hard but had hit the passenger side of the car. Witness said he also interviewed Jackie Flatley at the scene. The accident occurred almost in front of Mr. Flatley's residence. Mr. Flatley told him that before the accident occurred, he was in the process of driving his car, a red Volkswagen Vento, from his driveway onto the main roadway. Mr. Flatley had denied that his car had entered onto the public roadway before the accident occurred or that any part of his car was on the roadway which might have obstructed the deceased's car, causing him to brake hard or swerve in order to avoid a collision. Gd. Bourke said the accident occurred after a slight veering left-hand bend as one travelled from Ballina towards Dromore West. This bend did not play any part in the cause of the accident. The road was 18 ft. 6 inches wide with a continuous white line governing the centre of the roadway and a continuous yellow line marking each edge of the roadway.  Poor visibility The weather conditions at the time were atrocious with heavy driving rain and poor visibility. The road surface was in good condition but was very wet and slippery due to the heavy rain and there was a lot of surface water present. He found glass, mud and other debris at the point of impact. There was a 14 ft. brake mark followed by a 20 foot score mark on the road surface, leading from the point of impact towards the rear of the transit van. Witness told how he later visited the scene accompanied by a colleague, Gd. McNulty, for the purpose of ascertaining what view Mr. Flatley had of traffic approaching from the Sligo direction as he emerged from his driveway onto the public road earlier that morning. To accomplish this, he drove the patrol car into Flatley's driveway and attempted to return onto the public road. It was his intention to turn left towards Ballina. When he came to the edge of the roadway he stopped and looked to his right in the Sligo direction to view approaching traffic. His view was completely blocked by a large election boarding. The boarding was situated on the roadway 40 ft from the entrance to Flatley's driveway. The boarding, measuring 8 ft by 4 ft, was staked into the grass margin and the right side of the boarding was fastened to an Eircom pole.  Clear view He said that in order to get a clear view of traffic he had to drive the patrol car onto the public road. When he reached the point where he had a clear view of such traffic, he stopped the patrol car and viewed its position on the roadway. The car was stopped at an angle, the right front wing was 3 ft 9 inches into the public road and the left wing was 20 inches onto the public road. Gd. McNulty also performed a similar exercise with the patrol car, and both men took photographs showing the position of the patrol car on the road at the point where they had a clear view of traffic approaching from the right. Gd. Bourke said Mr. Flatley had admitted putting up the large election boarding, which was taken down the day after the accident. Mr. Flatley had made a statement through his solicitor in which he stated that after the accident his car was not moved from the scene. Gd. Bourke said when he first saw Flatley's car, it was away from the driveway and parked beside his house. In reply to Mr. Noel Kelly, Garda Bourke agreed that as one came out of Flatley's house, their view would be restricted considerably as a result of the election hoarding.  'Complete wreck' He added that a car emerging from the house would also be screened from oncoming traffic by the hoarding. P.S.V. Inspector, Sgt. Joseph Maher gave evidence of having examined both vehicles after the accident. He said the green car could only be described as "a complete wreck". While it was difficult to access the overall condition of the vehicle due to the extensive nature of the damage, all the indications were that it had been in good pre-accident condition. The van was also extensively damaged, but appeared to have been in good pre-accident condition. Dr. Clive Kilgallen, pathologist, gave evidence of carrying out a post mortem. His opinion was that death was due to multiple injuries with haemorrhage consistent with history of a road traffic accident. The inquest was adjourned for a short period to see if Mr. Flatley would arrive, and when he failed to do so, Dr. Moran said he would issue a Coroner's summons for his attendance. The inquest was then adjourned. 
