cars
{ JOHN MEAGHER 
    July 28 2007 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/at-the-top-26307541.html }
'You wouldn't want to be bothered by the attention," says Michael O'Doherty. The Dublin magazine publisher isn't concerned by the stares. And it's just as well because every time he takes his car out, everyone turns to look at the stunning Lamborghini Gallardo, which is worth at least €250,000 and painted in the most vivid shade of orange. "I absolutely adore this car," he says. "What can I say? I'm a man, it's a car -- of course I'm going to love it.,O'Doherty used to own an old Ferrari 308, but swapped it two years ago for another slice of Italian design excellence. "People ask me what's the point of owning a car that can do 200mph when I live in a country where the speed limit only allows me to do a fraction of that. They don't understand that you don't have to drive very fast to appreciate these cars. Everything about this Lambo appeals to me, from its shape to the craftsmanship. "It is a work of art, as well as a car. Last year, I took it on holiday with me to the continent and drove 2,500 miles in it. That's not many people's idea of the perfect holiday -- but it was marvellous.,O'Doherty says he has had a life-long fascination with cars and believes it would be difficult to go back driving more normal machines after this. "It's a fun, utterly impractical car. I mean, there's no boot. When I go shopping, I bring my groceries home on the passenger seat. Unlike many people who own such cars, this is my run-around motor. I don't own another car.,O'Doherty estimates that he only drives 3,000 miles a year and the bulk of that is in Dublin where the speed limit is such that he can't drive beyond 30mph. And he says he is very conscious of parking it on the street. "Not that it's going to get keyed, but more because of the way people park in this country. When they're reversing into a space they often stop when they've nudged the other car's bumper.,Most of the comments he gets from punters on the street have been positive. "It's such a beautiful car and I drive it respectfully. I'm not tearing down the streets like those Porsche w*****s who give supercars such a bad name.,Increasingly, though, cars as glamorous as the Lamborghini Gallardo are appearing on Irish streets -- an indicator if ever there was one about the country's economic health and the desire of its high flyers to purchase big boy's toys. "Supercars appeal to those who want to stand out from the crowd," says Trevor Musgrave, sales manager of Des Cullen Cars, the Dublin-based performance car specialist. "You see far more high-end Porsches and Ferraris in Ireland than you used to. They appeal to car lovers with the money, who want to drive something really special, something that reflects their personality.,Musgrave says the market has become buoyant in Ireland with a 20pc year-on-year increase in the number of supercars Des Cullen sells. "We have customers who have a fleet of top cars -- people from the entertainment world as well as top businessmen.,The Ferrari 599, the Bentley GTC and the Aston Martin DB9 are among the most covetable cars available today but they come with a lengthy waiting time. "Ferraris have a two-year waiting list," Musgrave says. "Many cars take at least a year to arrive." Incredibly, the Bentley Azure -- a large four seater convertible -- has a waiting list of five years. Yet it's a wait that motor obsessives are willing to make. All of these cars come with a jaw-dropping price tag. The 599, for instance, will set you back €400,000. Those keen to enjoy the supercar experience at a more reasonable price can buy an Aston Martin V8 Vantage coupe for €200,000. And Des Cullen is selling a one-year old Bentley Continental with 2,000 miles on the clock for €299,950. But these cars are in the ha'penny place compared to the Bugatti Veyron, which costs a cool €1.2m (before tax). Developed in conjunction with Bugatti's parent company Volkswagen, the all-wheel drive Veyron is the most powerful, most expensive production car of all time. Described by Top Gear's Jeremy Clarkson as "the best car ever made", it is also the fastest, with a proven top speed of 252mph. And Ireland is set to get its first look at the car because a wealthy enthusiast has just bought one. Galway-based dealership Cunningham Higgins is importing the Veyron, due to arrive next week, but is remaining tight-lipped about who the owner is. All manager Niall Cunningham will say is that a €400,000 deposit was placed to secure the Veyron although he was unsure how much VRT would be added. "The Veyron is the ultimate car," says Cunningham. "Ten years ago, if you drove a Porsche Boxster you would stand out. Not any more. Now it's Aston Martins and Bentleys. Ferrari retains the wow factor too, with the 599 being one of the most exciting cars they've ever built.,And Ireland's Ferrari aficionados are keen to get their hands on the Italian giant's most covetable creation, the Enzo, which retails for €1.1m, including VRT. Meanwhile, Des Cullen Cars report strong interest in the new Mercedes McLaren SLR, which will cost a cool €700,000 -- the price of German engineering excellence and Formula 1 pedigree. But a rash of extremely expensive, extravagant cars often prefigures an economic slump, and a Bugatti usually figures. In the Loadsamoney Britain of the late 1980s, for example, makers such as Jaguar with its XJ220, the Bugatti EB110 GT and the short-lived supercar marque Cizeta tried to cash in on the boom but their cars arrived just in time to belly-flop into the recession of the early 1990s. Old cars were swept along in the euphoria and the classic car market turned into a speculative bubble that quickly burst, with prices even now way below the records set then. The most notable automotive event immediately before the Great Crash of 1929 was the launch of the opulent Bugatti Royale, then (and now) one of the most expensive cars in the world. Economists who believe the luxury car market represents a "leading indicator" on the likelihood of a recession will no doubt have been especially worried when the Bugatti Veyron was unveiled last year. 
