cars
{  
    December 04 2007 04:53 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/deal-or-no-deal-26336383.html }
In 1960, the Democrats sank Richard Nixon's candidacy for US President with a cheap drawing of him followed by the phrase: "Would you buy a used car from this man?" The fact that it was suggesting that Nixon was less trustworthy than a used car dealer probably said as much about people's attitudes to those selling second-hand cars as it did about Nixon. Despite perceptions about used car sales people, buying a second hand car has its pluses -- it can often represent better value for money and work out cheaper because the value of a new car depreciates very quickly. The key thing is deciding where to buy your second-hand car -- through a garage, privately through a small advertisement in the paper or on the internet, at an auction or importing it from abroad. Buying through a garage or dealer gives you a better comeback if anything goes wrong because, as a consumer, you are protected by the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act 1980. As a consumer you have the same rights if you buy an item second-hand as if it is new. In this case if you find a fault with the car after you have bought it, the dealer is the person who must set matters right. Duty "If you were buying from a garage you would expect a certain duty of care from the garage and if the garage misled you in relation to whether the car had been crashed or mileage changed, that would be an offence and it is something we could potentially prosecute," says John Shine, deputy director of the National Consumer Agency. The Society of the Irish Motor Industry says its member garages will generally give a guarantee that will cover parts and/or labour for a specific period. Buying privately may prove to be cheaper than through a dealer but there can be drawbacks. "We are not pointing consumers in any one direction," says Shine. "Having said that, people need to be particularly cautious if they are buying privately. If you buy privately you don't have as much protection under consumer legislation as if you were buying from a garage. "You may well have some comeback through the civil courts but we wouldn't have a role in terms of prosecuting. Similarly, you can't bring a private individual to the small claims court," he added. Shine also advises car buyers to be wary of a phenomenon called "disguised business sales" where dealers try to pass themselves off as private individuals selling a car. "If a trader is offering cars for sale and doesn't make clear that he is actually a trader, then that is trying to deprive people of their consumer rights," he says. "If you ring up about a classified ad, say I'm enquiring about the car rather than giving the details. "If the question comes back to you which car is it, that should be ringing warning bells in your mind that this guy has a number of cars for sale and what he is trying to do is pass himself off as a private individual rather than somebody who is actually in the trade." While consumers like to satisfy themselves as to the roadworthiness of the car, Shine says they should also take the time to check that all the documentation is correct. In particular, check that the Vehicle Identification Number in the engine bay matches the car's registration documents. Before you buy a used car, you should always check whether there is outstanding finance to be paid on it, particularly if it was previously bought on hire purchase. "You could very well have bought a car that you subsequently found is stolen, well the person from which it was stolen is the legal owner of that car and the same applies to outstanding finance -- in the context of higher purchase, it would be the higher purchase company. "And your only recourse would be to take a civil case against the garage or the person who sold it to you," says Shine. Car auctions are proving increasingly popular among second-hand car buyers, but according to Government e-website Citizensinformation.ie, auctioneers have terms and conditions for making sales and by bidding at an auction you are signifying that you accept these terms and conditions. The National Consumer Agency advises people to visit an auction to familiarise themselves with what happens before actually going with the intention of making a bid. If you are buying an imported car, you need to check if the correct vehicle registration tax has been paid on the car. You should also be aware the car will not be covered by Irish consumer legislation if things go wrong. THE Society of the Irish Motor Industry (SIMI) advises motorists to take care when it comes to buying a second-hand car. SIMI's top tips on buying privately are: If an address is given in the advertisement, call around to the house and if there are a number of cars around, beware. You may be dealing with an unregistered dealer operating as a private seller. It is always a good idea to get a mechanical report on the vehicle before purchasing. Ask the seller how long has he or she had the car? If he has had the car from new, that's a good sign. If he has had it for a week, that is likely to be a bad sign. Does he really own the car? Is it on hire purchase or on a lease? If it is on lease/hire purchase, it isn't his to sell. Has he got the vehicle registration certificate and vehicle licensing certificate or if a pre-1993 vehicle, the old log book? The year of the vehicle? Has it been crashed? A SIMI member garage must tell you if it is aware that the car has been crashed. For imported cars, check that the correct VRT and VAT liability was declared and paid. 
