cars
{ Aidan Timmons and Motoring Editor Eddie Cunningham 
    October 21 2014 02:48 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-talk/does-100k-mileage-mean-big-trouble-if-i-buy-how-about-one-with-only-5k-a-year-30681913.html }
Does big mileage mean big trouble if I buy a car with 100k? Aidan: I like to think that it helps to view cars like humans. We both have lots of moving parts and gradually, over time, those moving parts wear out. Some wear out quickly and require replacement. Others don't wear out at all. You can mitigate a lot of undesirable health issues by ensuring you eat properly, exercise and take rest. Likewise, a car needs to be fuelled regularly, driven maturely and generally not for too great an overall distance. But at some point it can feel as though the working life of many car parts (and I'm sure body parts too) wear out all at once and historically this point was thought to be the 100,000-mile marker. It wasn't totally accurate then and its even less so now. The 100,000 units of mileage threshold is a bit of a hangover from our mileage days. We seamlessly transitioned from using miles to kilometres in 2005 in almost every other respect (especially for those precious four extra kilometres of speed on our motorways). But for some reason, when determining the point beyond which a car becomes a little less reliable, 100,000 miles became 100,000 kilometres when in fact 100,000 kms is just 62,000 miles - an adolescent in human terms. So now let's deal with the title question, but in reverse; does a car with 100,000 kilometres mean big trouble? Not necessarily. First, you have to establish a divide between petrol and diesel cars. By the very nature of their recommended usage, diesel cars should have higher odometer readings than their petrol counterparts. And so the two don't really equate. But to make things even more confusing, a really low-mileage diesel car that has spent its life in cities and towns could actually present with more serious issues under 100,000 kilometres than an imp  eccably minded petrol car with over 100,000 kilometres. It's a pain, I know. But there are reasons for this. You see, reliability is model specific; sometimes even manufacturer specific. But used cars are ultimately a reflection of their owners. They need to be cared for or they won't say very good things about you. At 100,000 kilometres (60,000 miles in old money) some very significant parts will either have already been due or will shortly require replacing. These include but are not limited to; timing belts, brake discs, brake pads and brake fluid, some automatic transmission fluids and anything else that has a finite lifespan. These are considered regular maintenance items and while some of them aren't cheap, their replacement drastically decreases the potential for disaster later in life. And so onto the second question; does big mileage mean big trouble? Again, not necessarily. Certainly there are parts whose replacement puts a bigger dent in your wallet than others. Suspension parts, clutches, dual mass flywheels, diesel particulate filters and gearboxes shouldn't give way under 100,000 kilometres and are more likely to act up as the car travels greater distances. I know money is still tight in the country and I am equally aware of how servicing a car can feel like a dentist pulling teeth but I'm afraid that if you don't take care of your car, it won't take care of you or your wallet. Pay attention to mileage, absolutely do. It helps accelerate a car's depreciation when there is a higher than average mileage reading and conversely, slows it down if it has a lower than average odometer reading. So it can help you when bargaining for a car. And by all means give preference to cars with lower odometer readings; they should last longer. But don't discriminate a well minded car with more than 100,000 kilometres and especially not if you don't cover big mileage yourself. And always, always get your car serviced. €150 to €200 today could save you thousands in the long term. Eddie: Aidan is absolutely correct on the mileage limit; 60,000 miles or so is not much on a modern car. But I have to be totally frank here and say I advise people that 40,000-50,000 miles is a sort of psychological barrier with me. I don't disagree with a word Aidan says and I know people have no problem buying big-mileage motors. Indeed I've driven that famous Skoda Octavia with 500,000 miles on the clock. Yet, I usually tell people if they can (and many can't) then try to buy as well up the years as possible. It means your car most likely has more safety technology on board. What price can you put on that?   Aidan: On the face of it, the answer to this question only requires basic mental arithmetic. Take the age of the vehicle and multiply it by 5,000. If the odometer reading is anything but the answer you've arrived at in your head then the owner is lying. Ah! if it was only that straightforward. You see, when buying privately you've got to approach the deal from a much more cautious standpoint than you would from a dealership. Clocking is an ongoing issue in Ireland and while dealers are susceptible to being caught out, the process of rewinding a car's odometer is much more rigorously safeguarded against from within the motor trade. Admittedly I'm pro-dealer but I'm not anti-private seller either. I just know when, where and how to differentiate between the two. First, a private seller is not necessarily bound by the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act; at least not to the same strict measure that a dealer is. A dealer must sell a vehicle "of merchantable quality". A private seller can sell a lemon and claim he/she isn't an expert and couldn't possibly have known it wasn't as it appeared. You've got a comeback with a dealer; fat chance with a private seller. A service record should tell the real mileage of a car. I can't overstate the importance of a comprehensive service record. No service book? (Post-Its or Tipp-Ex on the timing belt cover don't count.) Well, then, this 5,000-kilometre story sounds fishy. Bring a mechanic with you to view the car. They should be able to spot signs of excessive wear and tear that are inconsistent with a vehicle that has covered small distances. These usually show up on the seat, steering wheel, gear shift and suspension parts. I won't knock the out-of-trade activity but its helps to be a sceptic. Question everything. Pull, push and prod at every facet of the car and if it comes down to taking a private seller's word on something as important as mileage then I wouldn't hesitate from walking away; even if the car turned out to be fine. But that's just me. Eddie: There are people who barely drive their car. One of them is a personal friend of mine. I've been joshing him for some time to let me know when he's selling because he does under 5,000km a year. But I KNOW him. I know the car. If I didn't, I'd be highly suspicious (though why a 'clocker' would lower mileage to that level is beyond me). Strict advice: unless every box is ticked (especially service record) walk away. Irish Independent 
