cars
{  
    December 22 2019 07:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-talk/five-big-moves-in-a-decade-38806608.html }
Events in the past 10 years have reshaped the motoring landscape and the next decade promises to usher in even more sweeping changes. Here are just five of those motoring milestones. 1. Dieselgate The diesel emissions scandal was one of the biggest  corporate  scandals  in  history and involved one of the largest car manufacturers in the world. On September 18, 2015, the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reported that Volkswagen had installed illegal "defeat device" software that detected whether the vehicle was being subjected to an emissions test and lowered the emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) so that the car could pass the strict US regulatory limit. Within days Volkswagen admitted that 11m cars worldwide, including 80,000 in Ireland, were fitted with the device. For Volkswagen it was a costly cheating scandal amounting to billions but the real legacy was to highlight the human health costs of diesel-related air pollution and the folly of the EU's promotion of it. European governments viewed diesel cars as a fast and effective means to hit their CO2-reduction targets, since diesel cars typically emit, on average, 15-20pc less CO2 than petrol. To achieve these targets, governments in Europe spent billions boosting diesel by making make it cheaper to buy at the pumps than petrol and taxing new diesel registrations at lower rates than petrol cars. Even today preferential taxes continue to incentivise Irish buyers to buy such vehicles. As consumers increasingly switch from diesel to alternatives, the long-term decline of diesel car sales means consumer preferences and Government legislation are changing the shape of the market. 2. The Rise of SUVs In the past decade, SUVs and crossovers have gone from less than 10pc of the European market to almost 40pc of all new-car sales today. Similarly in Ireland, the best-selling car of 2009 was the Toyota Avensis, in fact, of the top 10 best-selling cars, five were saloons with the Volkswagen Passat, Ford Mondeo, Opel Insignia and Toyota Corolla among the best sellers. The saloon, once the epitome of family transportation, has been displaced by SUVs and crossovers. But the term SUV has blurred and it has over time come to mean anything from a jacked-up hatchback to an off-roading 4x4. The growth in market share is not without its critics and it is claimed it has contributed to an overall rise in CO2 emissions in recent years, while there have been calls for SUVs to be banned in city centres on safety grounds. At a time when SUVs are the most popular car type with buyers, the industry is responding by expanding the range of models on offer at every motor show to cash in on this profitable segment. 
Close
 Hyundai’s popular Tucson highlights the rise of the crossover SUV in the decadenitrogen / And it's a segment that is proving crucial to sustaining future investment for car makers so any ban will be strongly resisted but the days of sustained growth may be numbered as car makers will struggle to meet their European emissions targets for 2020-21 with an SUV-dominated model line-up. 3. Personal Contract Plans (PCPs) How we finance new cars has changed considerably over the last decade and the move away from paying upfront for a car to paying on a monthly basis has been a revolution in car buying. Introduced in the depths of the last recession, Personal Contract Plans (PCPs) made new cars more affordable by structuring payments around the cost of the depreciation rather than the whole cost of the car. Today, more than 30pc of new cars are financed by PCP contracts. However, concerns have been raised about a lack of awareness and uncertainty as to the meaning of certain terms and conditions and questions raised around the regulatory status and protection afforded to consumers. Despite concerns over levels of debt, PCPs are still proving popular with car buyers but whether this fundamental shift in the way cars are bought can be sustained in the long term remains to be seen. 4. Launch of the Nissan Leaf The Nissan Leaf, the first mass-market all-electric vehicle, charged into showrooms in 2010 and was a trailblazer for the electric car movement, turning more of us into drivers of EVs than drivers of any other car. The first Leaf, with a 24kw battery, was registered in Ireland on November 17, 2010 and cost €29,995. Interestingly, now it comes with a 40kwh battery as standard and costs €100 less than it did a decade ago. Initially the typical Nissan Leaf buyer was 45 with a higher than average annual income and a university degree. But the Leaf was to exceed expectations and its appeal extended beyond its original customer focus and more than 400,000 units of the car have been sold worldwide. Over the decade it moved from an early adopter vehicle to the best-selling electric car in Europe and while the launch of the Tesla Model S was also a significant milestone for electric cars globally, the Leaf was a game-changer in Ireland. 5. Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB) Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB) is without doubt the most important active safety system in cars since the introduction of Electronic Stability Control (ESC) and seat belts. AEB systems can reduce rear-end crashes by up to 38pc and can lead to a significant reduction in injuries as they have the capability to not only detect an impending collision and warn the driver, but also to initiate braking independently of the driver. Volvo launched its first collision-avoidance technology in 2006 and it was introduced as standard on new Volvo models from 2008. The real breakthrough came when the Euro NCAP announced it would not award a maximum five-star safety rating to a car without AEB and the technology was included in the safety rating since 2014. More sophisticated systems that can detect pedestrians have since been developed and changes to the safety assessment regime in 2018 include a test on pedestrian detection in the dark and, for the first time, cyclist detection. The Nissan Leaf was the first car to have its AEB system tested for both pedestrian and cyclist detection. In 2022 Automated Emergency Braking, which can detect pedestrians and cyclists, will be fitted as standard on all new cars. Sunday Independent 
