cars
{  
    June 28 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/car-crash-at-busy-west-st-junction-recalled-in-court-27120134.html }
A car accident involving two vehicles which occurred at the Duke Street/West Street junction in Drogheda on Sunday, January 7 last, came before the Civil Court on Tuesday last. The plaintiff, Owen Fox, 14 Boyne Hall, Slane Road, Drogheda, told the court that he was travelling down Duke Street on the date in question and he was stopped at the bottom of Duke Street when a car, driven by the defendant, Mr. Joe Bellew, reversed into him. Damage was caused to the side of his car. He said that he was very familiar with the junction and that there were two cars parked illegally on each side of the junction at the time. ‘I indicated to go left because you can’t go right. I stopped the car, as I was stopped I was looking to the right to see if the way was free when my car was hit really hard.’ Under questioning by his solicitor Kevin Byrne, Mr. Fox emphasised that he was stopped at the time and hadn’t moved. He said that after the impact when he got out of the car the first thing he said to Mr. Bellew was, ‘you reversed into me, to which, Mr. Fox alleged, Mr. Bellew replied, ‘I know’. ‘He said that he was trying to get across the junction to a car-parking space and I asked him would he object to ringing the gardai and he said that he would ring them on his mobile phone. He never suggested it was my fault.’ Under cross examination Mr. Fox said that he didn’t remember if there was anyone else in the defendant’s car. ‘Do you not recollect that there were two children strapped in the back seat hysterical and his wife in the front seat.’ Mr. Fox said that he was talking to Mr. Bellew and the gardai and wasn’t aware of any commotion. He admitted that he moved his car because ‘there was a trail of cars behind me in Duke Street.’ ‘I moved it to Stockwell Street, it was the only way I could go because I couldn’t turn the wheel fully to the left.’ He further added that the defendant also moved his vehicle slightly to allow traffic to pass. White line Under cross examination Mr. Fox admitted that he had moved out from the white line at the bottom of Duke Street in order to see if there was traffic coming. This was because the two cars which were parked illegally were blocking his vision. ‘If I had stopped at that white line I’d still be stopped there because I couldn’t see.’ The solicitor put it to him that his client was double parked on West Street to allow his wife to go to the bank link machine and that there was a car also double parked in front of him. ‘I put it to you that you came down Duke Street, you looked right and did not expect to see anything to the left.’ Mr. Fox responded by saying that he was still stopped and looking where he was going when he was struck by Mr. Bellew. ‘He hit my car because it prevented him from coming through the junction to park,’ he claimed. Witness Paul McArdle said that he was coming down Duke Street on the date in question and was behind Mr. Fox’s car. ‘I was stopped about 2-3 ft behind him and suddenly I could see his car being lifted into the air. I didn’t know what was happening and thought it was going to come back and hit my car. ‘Then I realised it had been hit on its side. My first instinct was that his car was going to come back and hit my car.’ He said that he was very sure that Mr. Fox’s car was stopped when it was hit. In evidence the defendant Mr. Joe Bellew of Creewood, Slane said that he had travelled down Duke Street himself. He also stated that there were two cars parked at either side of the junction and it was very hard to see. ‘My wife wanted to go to the bank and I double parked behind another car to let her out. As she was about to get out of the car we were hit from behind.’ He said that he wasn’t in reverse mode and that his car was stopped to allow his wife to get out. He hadn’t been intending to stay double parked because he knew he was in a dangerous situation. ‘It was my intention to reverse back into a parking space.’ He said that after the accident Mr. Fox told him that he had been looking to his right. Corner of junction Mr. Kevin Byrne, for the plaintiff, put it to Mr. Bellew that he was stopped in the middle of the road. Mr. Bellew replied that he was not, that he had been stopped at the corner of the junction. If this was the case, asked Mr. Byrne, then why was the debris in the middle of the road? Mr. Byrne put it to Mr. Bellew that although he was suggesting that the left hand rear of his car had been hit by the front of Mr. Fox’s car in actual fact it had been the other way around. Mr. Bellew said that he had not even had the car in reverse at the time of the accident. However Mr. Byrne said that Mr. Fox’s car had been stationary when Mr. Bellew struck him. ‘That couldn’t be true’, replied Mr. Bellew. Turned left Giving evidence Mr. Bellew’s wife Christine Bellew said that they had come down Duke Street and turned left onto West Street where there was a car parked in front of them. ‘Joe stopped and put on the hazard lights and I bent down to pick up my bag because I was getting out to go to the banklink machine. Then I felt the bang and the kids were screaming.’ Mr. Byrne put it to Mrs Bellew that the accident took place in a different way to how she and her husband said it had. ‘The only reason the debris was there (in the middle of the road) was because your husband reversed into Mr. Fox,’ he said. Judge Flann Brennan said that the only thing that assisted him in his judgement was the location of the debris. ‘It is quite clear the debris is straight in front of the car in the photograph and straight in front of the entrance to Duke Street,’ he said. ‘In my view it is improbable that the accident occurred as Mr. and Mrs. Bellew have said.’ The Judge further added that Mr. Bellew quite clearly intended to reverse and had, in all probability, started to reverse and in all probability that was how the accident occurred. He found in favour of the plaintiff and awarded £2,466.59; £2,100 for damage caused to the car, £250 for loss of use and £200 for depreciation. 
