cars
{  
    February 24 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/judge-slams-macroom-womans-disgraceful-perjury-27053213.html }
A MACROOM woman was told by a Circuit Court Judge that she had engaged in “a disgraceful episode of perjury” after she defended herself in a dispute over a car accident with a Glencar man in Killarney in 2001.Anastasia O’Sullivan, of Barathanaoncuk, Clondrohid, Macroom, was ordered to pay ?2,778.44 plus costs to Nick Becker of Pine Tree, Glencar, after their cars were involved in a collision on Park Road in Killarney on May 17, 2001. Anastasia O’Sullivan, of Barathanaoncuk, Clondrohid, Macroom, was ordered to pay ?2,778.44 plus costs to Nick Becker of Pine Tree, Glencar, after their cars were involved in a collision on Park Road in Killarney on May 17, 2001. Mrs O’Sullivan, who defended herself in court, told the judge she was in a line of traffic on Park Road and was stopped at temporary traffic lights when a wine-coloured van pulled out and hit off the passenger side of her car. She said her car was moving at the time and there was no way the van could have fitted in between her car and a white car in front of her. After the collision, she and her son Timothy had got out of the car to inspect the damage. She said the driver of the car, Nick Becker, was very abusive towards her. Mrs O’Sullivan said she went to Killarney Garda Station after her son had fixed the car up “a bit” and Nick Becker was at the station before her. She told the court her neck, shoulder and back were sore for three months after the accident but she had since recovered. Under cross-examination by Mr Becker’s barrister, Denis Horgan BL, Mrs O’Sullivan said her son had fixed the car and had gone to a local garage for an estimate of what the parts had cost for the purpose of the court sitting. Mrs O’Sullivan said she could not explain why on the paper issued by the garage the words “received with thanks” appeared, as she had not paid anyone for the parts and had only gone to the garage for a quote. She denied that her car had collided with Mr Becker’s or that her son Timothy was driving at the time. Mrs O’Sullivan said the registration number on her car was 669DZF and said she could not understand why Mr Becker had written down 88C 251 as the car’s registration number. This was the same number of a car which Mrs O’Sullivan had at home but which was being repaired at the time, the court heard. She said she believed that Mr Becker had seen her driving her other car a week after the accident and had written down her registration number then. Mrs O’Sullivan could not offer any explanation why a Welsh lady whose car was also involved in the accident, had written down a different registration number from the front of Mrs O’Sullivan’s car. She denied any suggestion by Mr Horgan that a local garda had said he had never seen her drive and said she had been driving for the past 20 years and had a full driving licence. She denied she had caused the accident or that her son was driving the car at the time. Garda Sean O’Sullivan gave evidence that when Mrs O’Sullivan came to the station almost an hour after the accident, the registration number on her car was 669DZF. He also said that when he went out to see the car, Timothy O’Sullivan was sitting in the driver’s seat. In his evidence Timothy O’Sullivan denied driving the car and said he was only checking his younger brother and sister in the back seat when Garda O’Sullivan had seen him in the driver’s seat. In his evidence, Mr Becker told the court he had seen Mrs O’Sullivan’s car earlier that evening and Timothy O’Sullivan was driving. He said he was sitting in a line of traffic when Mrs O’Sullivan’s car smashed into the back of his, causing his car to bump into the car in front of him. He denied that he was abusive towards Mrs O’Sullivan and said he had written down the registration number 88C 251 from the back of Mrs O’Sullivan’s red Mazda. Ceinwen Jones, from Wales, was on holiday in Ireland with four others at the time of the accident. She gave evidence of writing down the registration number 88KY 991 from the front of Mrs O’Sullivan’s car. Her friend Dilye Jones said that Mrs O’Sullivan’s car had been travelling at speed and had pushed Mr Becker’s car into the back of the car which Ms Jones was travelling in. Mrs O’Sullivan insisted, however, that Timothy O’Sullivan was fully insured in the car with a driving licence and she would have had no reason to lie. Judge Carroll Moran said he believed if Garda Sean O’Sullivan had opened the booth of Mrs O’Sullivan’s car, he would have found another set of registration numbers. Judge Moran said Mrs O’Sullivan had engaged in a disgraceful episode of perjury in the court. He ordered Mrs O’Sullivan to pay damages to Mr Becker and awarded Mr Becker both sets of costs. 
