cars
{ John Cradden 
    September 23 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/latest-news/auto-detective-26479172.html }
THERE has simply never been a better time to buy a used car in Ireland than right now. Dealers are reporting a glut of used cars on their forecourts and the motor classifieds are jammed with private sellers quickly dropping their asking prices in a desperate bid to shift their unwanted motors. As well as the economic downturn, the sharp fall in used car values is also down to the reduced price of new cars as a result of the VRT changes, according to the latest GE Money Used Car Index. "Some savvy consumers have recognised this fact and are choosing to change their car now while the deals are there," a GE Money spokesman told the Irish Independent. The index shows that between January and August 2008, values have been hit substantially across the board, including in-demand smaller cars, where prices have dropped by 13pc or €1,000 in cash terms. The family and fleet car values fare slightly better, falling by around 11pc or around €1500 in money terms. The sector worst affected is the executive or luxury car class, which has been hit not by VRT changes but by oversupply. Values in this sector have fallen by as much as €5,000 for three-year-old models and up to €4,000 for five-year-old models. "As dealers focus on clearing their used car forecourt in advance of the January spike in new cars, potential buyers will be pleasantly surprised on how flexible they will be," the GE spokesman added. In addition, the rate of used car personal imports continues to soar. Such is the volume of imports that potential buyers are being urged to give Irish dealers a chance to match the prices they are being quoted for comparable models abroad. Of course, while this is great news for canny cash buyers, most of us will have to offload the old car first. So if used car values are falling all round and you pay almost nothing for your new, used motor, it might undermine your "smug" factor if you only get buttons for your old one. The motoring section of popular online discussion forum, Boards.ie, is littered with posts from private sellers dismayed at how little interest their ads are generating. Which leads to the first bit of advice for buyers: if you can't get a decent trade-in, sell your current car first before buying the new one, if possible. You might have to be prepared to drop the price to shift it, but you can then embark in the search for a bargain with the knowledge of exactly how much you can put towards the new car. Searching for used cars has never been easier. Websites such as loadzacars.ie, carzone.ie, cbg.ie, autotrader.ie, and motornet.ie have searchable databases of thousands of cars from private sellers or dealers. Knowing whether you are looking at a bargain depends on finding out the market or book value. The most accurate guide available is to use the Revenue.ie website VRT calculator, where you can fill in the details of any car, and in calculating the VRT it will also list the Open Market Selling Price (OMSP). However, this price, which is based on regularly updated trade information given to the Vehicle Registration Office, should be used only as a guide, and may even be slightly out of date. When you come across a car you like, check all the details of the car's history before you start any tyre-kicking. Look for the magic words "full service history" or FSH for short. Buying a used car in this country used to be a bit of a lottery. This was because of a serious lack of searchable and verifiable information on a used car's history, leading to widespread problems with cars being "clocked", as well as crashed or damaged cars that have been repaired without buyers being made aware (see panel). Today, the situation has improved, although it's still not ideal. You can now buy a comprehensive car history check online from websites such as Cartell.ie, Motorcheck.ie, and AA Ireland. All you need is the car's registration number. It costs anywhere between €15 and €40 depending on the scope of the report. Given the potential cost of making the wrong choice, it's well worth it. You can find out, among other things, if the car has been imported, used as a taxi, written off, has a forged NCT or logbook, outstanding finance, a replaced engine, a colour change, or an incorrect spec. It's not guaranteed that all this information will surface in a typical check, but if there any important data missing, it at least gives you the opportunity to check it out further or walk away. It's also possible to verify the mileage although, again, it may not always surface in a history report. According to car history check firm Cartell.ie, while a national mileage register is now in existence, it is still being developed and information still being added to it. Cartell.ie can also run a full check on a UK import as long as you have the old UK registration number to hand. You can find more practical tips and advice on buying a used car by downloading the National Consumer Agency's 'Buying a Car Guide' from its website at www.consumerconnect.ie. 
