cars
{ Aidan Timmons 
    June 24 2014 05:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-talk/so-you-want-to-buy-an-older-car-because-you-cant-really-stretch-to-a-newer-or-new-one-30381034.html }
There has been much talk recently about how the values of some used cars have seemingly taken a big increase in recent times. This is something I monitor on a regular basis. There is certainly some legitimacy to the claim that, relatively, cars cost more now than they did in 2010 or 2011 or even 2012. And while I'm used to findings like this in my occupation, I can't help but wonder what people who don't regularly monitor such things must think when they read about it. It must seem like cars are a rip-off. So here's my promise to you: within the next 1,200 words or so (don't worry, I won't be boring) I'm going to lay out how the market currently stands. And why used cars still represent decent value for money, even if some of them cost more than they used to. I'll even mention some of my personal favourites; ones that will stand the test of time and which I consider to be great purchases. Right, first things first – a recap of the market. Our VRT system changed in July 2008, from taxing cars based on engine size to the amount of CO2 they polluted. The upshot of this was that manufacturers had to devise ways to make cars more environmentally friendly. The cleaner the emissions, the lower the tax. Lower taxes meant lower prices, so it ultimately worked in the customer's favour. Cue a global financial meltdown, a housing crisis and record unemployment and the result was a crash in car values, the likes of which has never been seen before. Generally speaking, the residual values of vehicles in 2009 fell by the equivalent of two years' worth of depreciation. So if your car usually fell by €2,500 per year, it fell by €5,000 in 2009. Scary, right? The intervening period has been characterised by poor new car sales, cheap imports and an alarming shortage of stock in dealerships. The cheap imports have stopped because the pound is expensive and the UK car market is strong. And despite an increase in new car sales so far this year, volumes are still pretty abysmal and some used car stock is still scarce. When demand increased for used cars at the end of 2010, we found that there was a shortage and so values increased. Simple supply and demand. Most didn't rise monetarily, although some did actually increase in price, but rather most rose in relative terms. So, a three-year-old car today is worth more than a three-year-old car was worth last year and the year before and the year before that. In fact, some values today are as strong as they were in the boom. Off the back of the increase in prices, it might be purported that used cars cost more than they ought to. Perhaps this is true. But let's not forget just how far values fell in 2008, 2009 and most of 2010. It was inevitable and necessary for values to regain some strength and especially so when most cars for sale today are the type of cars that people actively seek. If values haven't fallen by any substantive amount in the last couple of years, then surely they are due to. In fact, we are already seeing dealers starting to revise some values downwards as they come under increased pressure from the dual registration plate. But that's a whole other day's conversation. For now, rest assured that there are still some excellent used cars on the market that merit your consideration. And here are some of them. 2008 SEAT LEON 1.6 S BUDGET €5,000 SEAT benefit from accessing lots of the innovative technologies developed by Volkswagen. However, the Spanish brand packages the same goodies in what is arguably a prettier form. I wanted there to be something for everyone in this article, so I've chosen quite an old Leon. A 2008 model should fetch circa €5,000 but values for these are hardening as they become a little scarcer. Also, this budget is colloquially known as the "credit union money" one and it's a ferociously competitive market. If you find a Leon that meets your criteria, you would be best advised to snap it up. They don't hang around for long. 2009 KIA CEE'D 1.6 CRDI EX BUDGET €10,000 The irony of Kia's seven-year warranty is that it results in a scarcity of used cars, as owners are content with driving a car that Kia is responsible for fixing should anything go wrong. The EX specification in the Cee'd is very generously appointed. It's got cruise control, Bluetooth, half leather and air con. While it's not quite a refined as some of the longer established marques, it certainly has captured a lot of conquest business for the Korean brand. A 2009 model for this budget would make a lovely purchase. The SW (estate) version is the best pick. It will cost you around €700 more but it is worth the premium. 2010 NISSAN QASHQAI 1.5 DCI XE BUDGET €15,000 Nissan created an entirely new category of vehicle when it launched the Qashqai back in 2010. The crossover market has become buoyant with attractive options from Kia and Hyundai, each doing their level best to steal some of the Qashqai's limelight. At circa €15,000 for a 2010 model, Qashqai XE (which used to be called SE and essentially denotes the entry-level spec) it squares up and out-muscles a lot of family saloons. It was arguably the first car whose values compressed to the point that the differences in prices from one year to another were largely negligible. And despite quite a steady supply, even in the troubled market, the residual values for the Qashqai were extraordinary. 2011 FORD FIESTA 1.25 STYLE BUDGET €11,000 The 1.25 Fiesta is an extraordinarily capable car. The four-cylinder engine is spritely but frugal and is quieter than some of the three-cylinder alternatives from competitors. It responds brilliantly to being driven hard; not something usually associated with small cars. The chassis is excellent. The Fiesta holds its value tremendously well. In fact, last year the values I researched for Motor Trade Publishers highlighted that the 2011 1.25 Fiesta Style fell by circa €700 from January to December. There aren't many other cars that have performed as strongly as that. You should find your way into a 2011 model for around €10,500. Mileage plays a pivotal role in determining the value of any vehicle, so don't be surprised if values are higher for clean, low-mileage and properly maintained Fiestas that are sold with a warranty. 2010 HONDA CIVIC SE-S BUDGET €12,000 The Civic isn't as universally appealing as other family hatchbacks. The shape and styling can alienate some buyers but for around €12,000 for a 2010 car that returns adequate fuel efficiency and exhibits clever storage and seating arrangements, it's very hard to beat. The 1.4-litre engine isn't terribly potent. The 1.8-litre is by far a sweeter unit but it costs more to tax. Still, with virtually no discernible difference in residual values, the 1.8 won't cost a ransom more to operate. If you have pets or carry awkwardly sized objects, such as bicycles or music equipment, the cinema style 'magic seats' in the rear are truly something to cherish. 2008 MAZDA 6 1.8 SE EXECUTIVE BUDGET €8,000 I'll come clean right from the outset. I owned a Mazda6 for three years and, in fact, I've just bought another one. So whether you take this as bias or as a first-person experience from a guy who works in the used car market, let it be known that sometimes the best value doesn't initially appear that way. What do I mean by that? Well, the 1.8 petrol Mazda6 costs €570 to tax a year. It will only return around 30-35mpg around town and it can be pretty gutless unless you drive it hard and explore the upper reaches of the rev limiter. But it's virtually indestructible and it's cheap to service. SE Executive trim gives you cruise control and a multi-function steering wheel and if you opt for the hatchback version you will get of one of the most cavernous boots of a car in this class. Expect to spend around €8,000. All things being equal, it should still be worth circa €5,000 in two years' time. At around €3,000 depreciation for two years, it's what we in the trade call "cheap driving". Good luck with your foray into the second-hand market. Aidan Timmons is co-editor of Motor Trade Publishers, who supply a car-valuing service to the motor trade, insurance companies and finance houses. He visits dealers all over the country, each year, to produce a monthly guidebook on the values of used cars. Indo Motoring 
