cars
{ Pól Ó Conghaile 
    July 24 2017 09:54 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/travel/travel-talk/car-hire-checklist-8-expert-tips-for-dodging-rental-rip-offs-35961221.html }
Summer is one of the peak seasons for car rental... and car rental rip-offs. Here's my checklist for avoiding unnecessary stings.  This week, a whistleblower claimed that Europcar paid staff £4/€4.50 each time they spotted 'damage' on a rental return, regardless of whether a repair was actually warranted, according to a report in the Daily Telegraph. Car rental companies have different definitions of 'damage' (some say scuffs need to break the paint, others use minimum size criteria, for example). Before you sign, check the car for damage, taking photos of any dints and scratches, and get staff to approve them with you on the form. Popping your keys into a box seems like a handy way to save time, but it can be a shortcut to trouble... and credit card charges appearing after you get home. Give yourself extra time to process the return and get your forms signed off on the spot. If you do have to use a box, take photos of the car's condition - and be sure to ask about the out-of-hours return policy before you take the car. 
Close
 Car hire: Are you being ripped off? / Note that many car hire companies offer a grace period on return of just 30 minutes (or strangely, in the case of Hertz, 29 minutes). Don't be late, or you'll be charged an extra day. Basic car rental insurance policies require the customer to pay the first portion of any claim - a hefty sum that can soar well over €1,500. But reducing the excess can be costly too, in many cases doubling the daily rate of your car hire. A solution? Take out a car-hire excess policy. Sold by AIG, Axa and CarHireExcess.com in Ireland, these policies work by refunding the excess you pay in the event of theft or damage, including to tyres, keys and windows — subject to T&Cs, of course. Cover starts from as little as €2.99 per day, but regular renters will save far more by buying an annual policy... it costs from around €50 per annum. Taking a rental car to Northern Ireland? Some car hire companies levy extra ‘cross-border’ coverage fees of up to €34... no matter how quick the visit. Note too, that many car rental companies charge 'one-way' fees - i.e. for picking up and dropping off at different locations. Return to the same branch wherever possible. 
Close
 On the road - car hire tips / Holidaymakers rocking up to car rental desks without a booking in July or August are asking to be ripped off. For the best deal, book in advance. Check websites like kayak.ie and rentalcars.com (or even your airline website) as well as car hire websites themselves, as prices can often differ. One more trick - delete your computer’s cookies and compare the .ie and .com websites of the same provider. You might nab some extra savings. Do you really need a rental car for the full duration of your holiday? Consider booking for a few, concentrated days of activities rather than one or two weeks. Rental companies charge hefty premiums to refuel their cars... a reader recently contacted us to say she had been charged €90 for less than half a tank. €90! Be sure to fill up before you return... making time to locate a service station near the drop-off BEFORE you leave for the airport. Navigating foreign roads and one-way airport systems (particularly if you're running late or travelling with kids) is not the time to search for fuel stations. Airport rentals are handy, but they can also be more expensive for rentals. Think about renting closer to your accommodation, or outside of the high-demand offices - particularly if you only need a car for a few days.  As a general tip, it's wise to compare quotes based on the final figure, not the lead-in rate. Will you need child seats or additional drivers, for example - or are you doing a lot of driving, in which case diesel may be a more cost-effective choice than petrol? It's not just about the car - it's about who and what you need it for. Read more: Online Editors 
