cars
{  
    June 14 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/mother-disputes-evidence-her-son-was-driving-crashed-car-26921286.html }
The family of a young Ardee man killed when a car crashed into a bog disputed the evidence that he had been driving the car when it went out of control. At the inquest into the death of 21 year old Patrick Murphy, of 38 Ferdia Park, Ardee, his mother Mary broke down as she described learning of her son’s death. She had passed the scene of the accident earlier on her way home from work and had seen the silver Fiesta car on its side in the field. About half an hour later, her daughter called and told her that Patrick had been killed. About seven or eight weeks later she plucked up the courage to go to the yard where the car was. She took measurements which she believed proved her son, who was 6ft 3 inches couldn’t have been driving, arguing that there was only 23” from the driver’s seat to the floor. Allowing her to give evidence, Coroner Mr. Ronan Maguire BL pointed out that it was not for him or the jury to come to any conclusion as to who was driving, but he felt that in fairness, the family should be allowed to put their view on public record. Earlier Gda Peter Fahey, Ardee said he went to Corbilis, Readypenny, on the Ardee/Dundalk Road. He saw a youth, Patrick Murphy, lying on the grass margin on the left side of the road. Members of Ardee Fire Brigade stated they had removed him from under a car in an adjoining field. The car was 50 yards out in the field in about 9 inches of water. He could see four skid marks on the road as though the car was travelling sideways when it skidded into the field. Paul Martin, a member of Ardee Fire Brigade, said he was returning from duty in Dundalk at 12.20 am on November 7th. He was driving his own car and the fire brigade was travelling behind. When he came to Corbilis he saw a car on the side of the road which had its flashing lights on. The car stopped and he slowed down and he then saw another car in the field. He got out and asked if everything was ok and if anyone had checked the car. He went and checked the car. He had his torch with him and checked inside the car and saw it was empty. It was in about 12 inches of water. He went around the car, by which time other members of the fire brigade had arrived. They found a youth caught under the right rear side window of the car. Seamus Curtis lifted the car and he pulled the youth out and they tried to revive him. The youth had been trapped under the window behind the driver’s door. His legs were not in the car, but under the car. His body was trapped by the car. The other car left the scene without anyone saying anything. Seamus Curtis said he was travelling with the fire brigade from Dundalk when he saw a car parked on the road with hazzard lights on. They stopped and saw a car in the field. A youth came up the bank and they asked him if everybody was alright. He said someone was missing. He went to the car which was in water. He went round with one of the other firemen and saw a youth caught in the driver’s window. His head and body were out of the window but his hips and legs were caught by the car. He was face down in the water and there was no sign of life. Emmet Hubble said in his deposition that he had got a lift to the Readypenny Inn after he had finished work. Patrick Murphy was there. When the time came to leave, he said he was getting a taxi, but a man he called Ollie from Tyrone said that he would give him a lift to Ardee. Paddy said he would drive. He seemed OK and he asked him how much he had to drink and he said one pint. Paddy was driving and they were listening to the radio. As they passed Cluskey’s pub he didn’t see any fault with his driving. However he started to go way faster than 65mph and he asked him to slow down but he didn’t listen. As they were passing the cottages the car went out of control and tumbled into the field. He didn’t know how long they were there. He asked where Paddy was and Ollie said to get out as the car was going to go on fire. He went to a house to get a light and as there was no phone, then went to another house to phone for the ambulance. His hand was injured in the accident and he went to hospital in a car. As far as he knew, the man from Tyrone, whom he called Ollie, owned the car. Gda Fahey said he had spoken to Oliver Caldwell from Tyrone at the hospital. He admitted being the owner of the car which he had bought three weeks previously. He said he was a front seat passenger when the accident happened. The pathologist’s report stated that the deceased had died from drowning following a road traffic accident. Toxicology reports showed the victim had a blood alcohol reading of 174mg per cent and a urine alcohol reading of 212 mg per cent, which was twice the legal limit for driving. Mr. Maguire offered his sympathy to Mr. Murphy’s family, noting that he had his entire life in front of him. 
