cars
{  
    March 30 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/rush-man-convicted-of-careless-driving-after-car-went-out-of-control-27783769.html }
A RUSH man was convicted of careless driving after his car went out of control on a bend and hit another car coming in the opposite direction head... A RUSH man was convicted of careless driving after his car went out of control on a bend and hit another car coming in the opposite direction head on. Malcolm Colmey, 32 St Catherine’s Park, Rush, appeared before Balbriggan Court last week on a summons arising out of the accident on February 22 1999. A solicitor for the defendant applied to have the careless driving summons dismissed on the grounds of unreasonable delay. The court heard that the summons had been applied for within the statutory time. Inspector Seán Galwey said that although the incident had occurred 13 months ago, most people would remember such an incident because they would not be involved in a traffic accident very often in their lives. He did not believe that the delay in the issuing of the summons and the defendant’s appearance in court was excessive as far as the State was concerned. Judge CA Murphy refused the defence application to dismiss. The court heard that the gardaí were called to the scene of a road accident on the Lusk to Rush road about a half mile from Rush village. Garda Sara McEvoy said that on her arrival she observed two vehicles, a red Toyota Corolla and a silver Honda Civic. The Toyota was being driven by Colmey and the Civic was being driven by Richard O’Shaughnessy, 50 Whitechurch Way, Ballyboden. Both drivers admitted at the scene to driving the cars involved in the accident, the court heard. The Civic was at the bank facing Lusk and in the garden of somebody’s house, Garda McEvoy said. The Toyota was facing the Rush direction on the other side of the road and was in a ditch. There were three passengers in the Civic and two in the Toyota. All appeared to be injured. The adults were later removed by ambulance to Beaumont hospital and the children were taken by ambulance to Temple Street, the court heard. There was ‘extensive damage’ to the front and driver’s side of the Toyota. ‘The car was basically a write-off,’ said Garda McEvoy. The Civic was badly scraped down the driver’s side and on the front. The point of impact between the vehicles appeared to be on the right hand side of the road for the Honda Civic, said Garda McEvoy. Everyone at the scene was very much in shock. ‘They were all injured and nobody could remember very much of what happened at the scene,’ said the garda. Questioned by the defence solicitor, Garda McEvoy said that the speed limit was 60 miles per hour at the time of the accident. She was not aware whether this had been reduced since then. She agreed that the defendant had called her within a few weeks of the accident to check what the road conditions were at the time of the accident for insurance purposes. The weather had been dry and it was not raining but the road surface may have been damp, Garda McEvoy said. Mr O’Shaughnessy, who was driving the second car, told the court that he was driving to work in Rush on February 22. As he came out of a series of ‘S’ bends another car came from the opposite direction and ‘was out of control’ and ‘spun’ out in front of him. It appeared to him that the driver ‘lost it a bit’ but then corrected the car before again spinning in front of Mr O’Shaughnessy’s car. ‘The other driver lost control of the car but why I don’t know.’ The car ‘bounced’ off his own in the collision, he said. His own car was written off, Mr O’Shaughnessy told the court. The whole front of his car and driver’s door ‘collapsed’. At the scene, Colmey checked to see if he was okay but went back to his own car to check on his family. Mr O’Shaughnessy agreed with a defence solicitor that he would not be in a position to know why the other driver ‘lost control’. Mr Kevin O’Shaughnessy, son of the witness, gave evidence that he was asleep in the passenger seat of the car at the time of the accident and that he woke up to hear his father shouting ‘no, no’, before he saw the front of the other car right in front of their own vehicle. The ‘nose’ of the other car had pushed their car up onto the bank, he said. Ms Deborah Colmey, the wife of the defendant, gave evidence for the prosecution. She said that as their car came out of the ‘S’ bends on that day, the back of the car started to slide to the left hand side. ‘The other car was coming towards us and went up on the verge,’ she said. Ms Colmey said that the road was damp and the back of the car slid. Her husband was driving at between 30 and 40 miles per hour, she estimated. The ‘nose’ of their car was on the wrong side of the road when the accident occurred, the court heard. She could recall no incident prior to the accident where her husband appeared not to be paying attention, she said. In his own evidence, Mr Colmey said that he was driving at around 40 miles per hour. The road markings and speed limits in the area had since changed but at the time the limit was 60mph. Mr Colmey said that as he was heading towards the ‘S’ bends, the left hand side of the rear of his car slid towards the verge ‘for no apparent reason’. ‘It was not my driving. There wasn’t any ice,’ he said. The car was ‘pushed up into somebody’s front garden’ in the collision. Asked by Inspector Seán Galwey whether he had been paying attention to the road, the defendant said that he always made a point of never taking his eyes off the road when he was driving. The back of his car had slid as if it was trying to go straight as he went into the bends. He was very shaken up and did not remember anything about the impact. Asked about Mr O’Shaughnessy’s assertion that he had initially appeared to get the car under control before losing it again, the defendant said he could not really say whether that was the case. ‘I tried to correct it as best I could but I don’t really remember anything after that. ‘I would not speed in a dangerous situation of bends because too many accidents happen in those bends and I’m not going to risk my wife and children,’ the defendant said. He said that after the accident he could not remember what the road conditions had been like and that he had had to ring the gardaí to ask them when he was filling in his insurance form. ‘I don’t think it was my bad driving because I’m a very careful driver - I have no previous accidents,’ he told the court. The car itself had been regularly serviced and had new tyres on it on the day of the accident. The defendant’s solicitor said that his client accepted liability 100 per cent for the accident but could not recall the incidents leading up to it. The speed limit in the area was 60 miles per hour but the road had since been re-lined and the limit reduced, the solicitor said. His client was unemployed and lived in Rush. The solicitor asked the judge to take into account the fact that the ‘mandatory’ penalty if his client was found guilty of an offence might make it difficult for him to find employment. Inspector Galwey said he had no problem with the defendant’s honesty about the accident. But he reiterated Mr O’Shaughnessy’s claim that the defendant appeared to correct his mistake when the car deviated from its proper course prior to the accident. Judge CA Murphy found that the prosecution had proved its case and she convicted Colmey of careless driving. She fined him £100 and ordered that his licence be endorsed. The judge set a recognisance of £250 in the event of an appeal against the conviction. 
