cars
{  
    December 29 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/get-into-top-gear-for-new-year-with-better-value-used-cars-26066187.html }
There's good value to be found in the second-hand car market for the discerning private buyer, writes EDDIE LENNON AS the Celtic Tiger roared, more and more motorists got a yen for fashionable new cars, and this knocked the idea of buying a second-hand car firmly into low gear. Thousands of motorists have 'traded up' in recent years, which has caused a glut of available second-hand cars in the market. The National Car Test has arguably dealt a psychological blow to the notion of buying second-hand cars at all. The boom in sales of new cars has led to a collapse in the price of second-hand cars. Banks and finance companies are already repossessing cars in their thousands from people who went out on a limb to buy the car of their dreams only to realise, when the heat of impulse faded, that they bought over their heads. These cars, many just months old, are then repossessed and resold at car auctions. But another important factor is about to make used cars even more plentiful, and cheaper. As the '02' registration cars roll out, the old price principles of supply and demand will increasingly favour motorists who want to buy second-hand cars. Managing director Loughlin Murphy, of Carroll and Kinsella Motor Group, are big retailers of second-hand cars, especially people who trade in cars up to four-years-old. The company has three branches in Dublin, which deals in Toyota and Lexus, both new and used. "In order to sell as many new cars as possible, we have to sell as many second-hand cars as we take in. We get them cleaned, valeted, and serviced, and resell most of them with at least a 12-month guarantee. "Over a year, we sell about 3,500 used cars. We encourage people to take a test drive, to let them see what they're buying." He says the first weeks of January are a good time to buy, for two reasons. "Psychologically, it's a new year and people want a new car and for the customer buying a second-hand car, that's a new car as well. "There are lots of good quality used cars available in the early part of the new year, because once the Christmas buzz is over, the next thing people want is a new car." Carroll and Kinsella sell up to 20pc of their new cars in January, and selling will be at least as intense with the forthcoming arrival of the new Toyota. "It became fashionable since the turn of the century for people to buy new reg cars. But now people are back buying second-hand cars again. "We have customers on our books waiting for quality second-hand cars, and we're getting calls from customers asking if certain types of used cars are coming in." Cars repossessed by the major banks are resold by Merlin Car Auctions (formerly WCA Car Auctions) at their new auction centre in Ashbourne, Co Meath. Sean Boland, managing director, says that by the end of this year, he expects to have sold about 22,000 cars, with about 10pc of them being repossessed and resold. Sources in the Dublin taxi business who specialise in buying second-hand cars claim repossessed cars are the cheapest - far cheaper than buying from a dealer or privately. Sean says a large proportion of his cars are bought by the motor trade, who re-sell the cars at a profit. "We sell cars on the open market at trade value price." He says used Fiat and Hyundai are particularly good value at the moment, due to being more plentiful. The notion of buying second-hand cars is apparently becoming more fashionable, as people realise the value on offer at car auctions. "Three years ago, 95pc of our business was to the motor trade, whereas now it's down to 60pc", Sean says. He says his biggest auction of the year was the last sale in December. "The demand for used cars this month and last month has been very surprising. Last year, new cars sold all year round; this year they slowed down to a trickle the last few months. That created a lot more movement in the sale of used cars." There are now more used cars than ever for sale. Sean adds that there will be more used cars for sale in February and March than any other period in the New Year. He believes that this extra supply will be reflected in better prices in used cars from late January onwards. He advises potential buyers coming to his auctions who are not mechanically minded to bring someone who is. Merlin don't have full mechanical reports or warranties on the cars, nor can you take a test drive. However, from early next year Merlin's cars will be graded from 1 to 5 according to the condition of the engine and body, and there will be weekly auctions on Wednesdays and Saturdays with viewing the day before or on the morning of the auction. Merlin don't give warranties but, according to Sean Boland, "if we sell a car and a major mechanical defect in it is discovered within 24 hours from the time it's bought, we will give a refund. A lot of our cars, such as Nissans and Toyotas, already have three-year manufacturers' warranties". *Read Eddie Lennon's consumer articles and surveys on www.bestvalueireland.com, Ireland's newvalue for money website. 
