cars
{ Eddie Lennon 
    October 23 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/driving-a-good-bargain-when-buying-second-hand-26032053.html }
There are may pitfalls when acquiring a used motor. EDDIE LENNON takes you on a test drive to mark out the sharp  corners THERE'S something special about buying a second-hand car. You don't need to think about the massive depreciation in its value after you buy it, since the original owner has taken the financial rap on that one. There's also the thrill of the chase, and the overall prospect of nailing down a real bargain. But as with any romantic adventure, reality can put everything in a far less upbeat light. Many motorists, enthralled by the basic human impulse to spend money on an apparent bargain deny themselves the investigative adrenalin rush of checking that all is what it seems to be and should be. Tony O'Connor, technical engineer with the Automobile Association, reckons that between 20pc and 50pc of Irish motorists buying second-hand cars get a mechanic to check the car in question. "It's the next biggest expense after buying a house. Would you buy a house without having an engineer look at it? It's the same with a car." The results of such slapdash optimism can be financially disastrous. A myriad of potential defects awaits the average second-hand car buyer. Tony O'Connor says many cars have defects which should have been sorted out by garage mechanics when the previous owner brought the car for a service. These include basic, easily remedied defects, such as rattling doors. But many cars he inspects have other hidden, but more major, defects notably weak body work due to having been repaired after a crash. When you go to trade the car in, that's when you take the hit," he warns of such cars. In general, he adds that "cars nowadays are good quality, particularly when you buy from a main dealer who has too much to lose in publicity and everything else by selling you a dud." If, instead, you buy through magazine ads, it's particularly important to bring a mechanic along, he adds. Engine wear shows up in National Car Tests. Consequently, weak engines in used cars are not such a problem anymore. "Unless engines are abused, such as being run out of oil or not properly maintained at the service, engines nowadays are good and solid," he says. Tony says the NCT, which cars four years or older have to be subjected to (and every two years after that), has taken the bulk of 'bangers' off the road and dramatically improved the overall quality of used cars. The net result is that buying a used car is a far less worrisome prospect than ever before. But, he says "it's still a case of buyer beware." He advises that the sooner you buy a car after the NCT has been done, the better. "It means you have up to two years before you have to worry about another test. "There's no point buying a car with three months left before the next test and you discover you'll have to spend a lot of money to get it through the test." He advises motorists to avoid buying cars older than 1987. "They can be high maintenance, and a false economy in the long run. With old ignitions and fuel pumps, parts wear out; whereas cars nowadays are much more durable. "There are some exceptional older cars, but generally if you want a car for day-to-day use, it will cost you a lot less in the long run to buy a newer car." More tips for second-hand car buyers include No reputable seller will object to an examination by a mechanic; if he does, go elsewhere. Make sure there's no hire purchase owed on the car. If a private seller hasn't paid the HP, the car remains the property of the leasing company, and he has no right to sell it to you. Check with the Hire Purchase Centre at (01) 260 0905, and they will tell you if it's clear. Beware of unscrupulous dealers posing as private vendors in small ads. This practice is not uncommon. When responding to an ad, ring up and say you're 'enquiring about the car". If the seller has to ask 'which car?', he's a dealer. Examine the log book and contact the previous owner listed on it. He or she can probably tell you much more about the car's history than the dealer. Examine the guarantee very thoroughly. You can be left with little redress if something goes wrong. The AA recommends you buy from an SIMI-registered dealer. The SIMI has a strict code of practice that protects the consumer, and an arbitration system allows for proper redress in the event of a serious dispute. SIMI-registered dealers are also more likely to be able to look after minor problems on a goodwill basis than unaffiliated garages and certainly more so than private sellers. According to the AA, its Autocheck is comparable to an ISO-type quality assurance scheme for used cars. Dealers undertake to perform a very detailed inspection, designed by the AA and carried out by qualified engineers, that examines the car with reference to any one of 175 potential problems. The AA then monitors those dealers very closely, with regular spot inspections to ensure standards are maintained. The cost varies depends on the engine size of the car and is broken down as follows: Up to 1400cc ?242 Up to 3000cc ?295 Over 3000cc ?360 All prices include 21pc VAT. Non-AA members pay a slightly higher rate. *You can read Eddie Lennon's consumer articles and surveys on www.bestvalueireland.com. 
