cars
{ Mark Keenan 
    June 05 2014 06:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/homes/home-truths-government-ignoring-car-crash-over-supply-shortage-30332747.html }
RECENTLY this newspaper carried news that second hand car prices have surged – five year old cars today cost 27pc more than they did three years ago. Like property market inflation, the issue is tight supply. So for the fun of it, let's imagine for a moment that our housing crisis is a car crisis. Imagine that new vehicles are no longer being imported because local and central Government has taxed motor sales and motor imports to the degree that it's no longer actually financially feasible to sell new cars into Ireland. According to Renault, Toyota, Ford and Fiat, penal taxation means that they now lose money importing and selling a car here. So they stopped. Among the stipulations on top of VAT and regular taxes on new cars are: * A manufacturer must donate the value of one car for every four they sell in Ireland – to enable car ownership for those who can't afford one. * The manufacturer must pay between 5pc and 20pc of the sale price of each car to the local authority for road infrastructure. * Four seater family cars consume more fuel and do more damage to the road, so the local authorities have decreed that only two seaters can be sold. Based on the above scenario what would happen? Once imports dried up, second hand car prices would go through the roof as those who normally bought new turned to the second hand market in search of family vehicles. Cash buyers would be king on the forecourts as supplies dried up and the wealthy win out in the battle to purchase a vehicle that isn't two seater and electric. The cost of renting a car would also go up and with it taxi and public transport costs, thanks to the increased cost of suitable vehicles for that purpose. The lack of cars would mean that people would no longer be able to travel distances to work (industry and competitiveness would suffer) and that people could no longer drive to restaurants or to the shops (consumption would be hit). And despite having the highest taxation on cars in Europe, Government revenue from motors is right down – because so are the numbers of transactions. So you are the Government. What do you do? Well first you pretend (for two years) that the car shortage and rising vehicle prices are a figment of the industry's imagination. You'd stonewall until the problem becomes so immense that there's no point in denying it. Your first real move would be to placate the motor industry itself which is whining vocally about lost jobs. So you provide a big tax free allowance to allow people to do up their rickety old cars. The mechanics at the garages can make money doing maintenance work. That way the industry can keep some jobs. Right? While 25,000 people a year are dying to buy a car in a market that has 4,000, you announce a big plan (amidst much singing and dancing) to build 449 new cars over two years to be handed over to those on the 100,000 strong 'free car list'. Because despite having charged the importers for years the equivalent of one car for every five they import, you know the money went to sustaining economically unviable salaries at the local authorities. Next, as the lynchpin of your 'Motors For All 2020', plan, you announce a scheme to provide the banks with a Government (and therefore taxpayer-backed) guarantee on all car loans so that punters can borrow enough money to afford the few overpriced cars that are out there. This will help inflation even more. And the ideas keep coming – this month your ministers are talking about enforcing a one in 10 handover of cars on importers for social use (even though none are being imported). You continue to avoid addressing the basic supply issue in the bid to keep sticking new carts before the horse. Most vitally, you do absolutely nothing to tinker with the penal taxation levies on motor vehicles. This keeps the price of cars rising nicely. Because eventually you know prices will rise to the point when it once again becomes viable for the importers to return to the market. While the Irish car buying public will ultimately end up paying far more than anyone else in Europe for the privilege of owning or even renting a car, almost half of that cost is pure taxation. Better again, the value-linked tax we recently slapped on car ownership is also rising daily along with sale values. Finally did we mention our massive Government stock containing thousands of mouldy old vehicles which have sitting for years in the 'bad loan' warehouse? If we keep going the way we are we'll make an absolute killing. Indo Property 
