cars
{ John Meagher 
    July 12 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/first-plug-in-your-car-26461163.html }
I'm sitting in Dublin rush hour traffic and people are openly staring. It doesn't help that I resemble Noddy in his car, as I sit crammed into the newest vehicle to hit Ireland's streets. The Mega City is a car with a difference -- it is 100pc electric, boasts zero emissions and all its parts are completely recyclable. For environmentalists, it makes Toyota's hybrid success story, the Prius, look like a gas-guzzling monster. The Mega may signal a green revolution -- now that the punitive new motor tax regulations have come into place this month -- but it's not a comfortable one as my heavy-set, six-foot-one-inch frame feels very big in the two-seater's tiny confines. It's also pitifully slow. Robert Nolan, the 28-year-old entrepreneur behind Green Machines, the company (based in Terenure, south Dublin) that is importing the cars into Ireland, had his mechanic -- or should that be electrician? -- attempt to get the car moving a little faster, but he had no joy before the car was required for my test drive. Just as well then that the traffic is as sluggish as ever and the car isn't required to exceed 50kph -- because that's the top speed this model is capable of today. Its highest speed -- after the technicians do their thing -- is a far from nifty 64kph. For someone who ordinarily drives a two-seater sports car with plenty of oomph, I find its response and acceleration to be painfully turgid. And the car's silent engine is jarringly disconcerting too. The only sound I can hear is the tyres cutting through the heavy puddles on the streets, constant reminders of our gloomily wet summer. Its noiseless movement proves to be an issue for cyclists and pedestrians, too, who don't hear the Mega sneaking up behind them. Cue startled looks when they see the little grey motor -- that looks like a slightly elongated Smart car -- trundling up the street. My journey from Dun Laoghaire across the southside of Dublin to Terenue proves to be an uneventful one. The car does its job and it's comforting to know that I didn't damage the environment one iota, unlike those big SUVs -- the so-called Foxrock Tractors -- that have been mushrooming in the capital at a frantic rate. But my smugness turns to fear when I consider the sheer size of these cars -- BMW X5s and Range Rovers, for example -- and how I wouldn't fancy my chances if one of them crashed into my little green machine. My heart has some moments of anxiety whenever double decker Dublin buses take up some of my lane space. I share my fears about the car's tiny size with Nolan and he says the car has passed the required European safety checks. "15,000 of these are made by Axium in France every year, and there have been no problems with them," he says. More than 1,500 of the Megas are on the streets of London right now -- a city where people talk about the congestion charge like we talk about the weather or property. In London, the car incurs neither the charge nor an on-street parking fee. The rising price of fuel doesn't matter a jot to its owners. Dun Laoghaire-Rathdown, often cited as the country's most progressive county council, will be introducing a charge point for the cars on a pilot basis from September, and other local authorities may follow suit if demand is there. "It's a chicken and egg scenario," says Richard Burke, a campaigning publicist for Green Machines. "If the cars aren't here, why would the charging stations be put in place? And if there are no charging stations, it wouldn't be quite as conducive to buy one in the first place." With any motorist automatically believing that the only way to fuel their car is at a conventional fuel station, the sight of the Mega being charged takes some getting used to. Just like one might power a vacuum cleaner, the car is powered by a three-point plug. When fully powered -- a process that takes up to eight hours -- the car is capable of travelling 80km, although I'm assured that far quicker charges are sufficient for short hops. "We reckon it costs around €2 a week to power this car for use every day," Burke says. "When you factor this into the fact that there's no VRT on the car, and motor tax, at €100, is far lower than any other car on the market, it represents great value for money." A new Mega City will set you back in the region of €16,500 -- which is more than I imagined it would be, but quite keenly priced against conventional fuel models. Neither Nolan nor Burke believes the Mega can replace a family car -- for one, its low speed prohibits it from use on motorways -- but both reckon it can be used for such tasks as the school run and shopping expeditions. And that's something that Green councillor Gene Feighery has been using her Mega for over the past few weeks. "I like it a lot. As energy efficiency goes, it can hardly be beaten. For use in a city, it's perfect because the speed limit is 50kph and, anyway, the traffic can be very heavy and you end up sitting in it at rush hour. It's good to know that the engine won't be idling." Feighery agrees with the suggestions of Burke and Nolan that the Mega, in its current guise, is not a replacement for a conventional family car. Her other motor is a Mercedes estate -- hardly the most environmentally friendly of vehicles. For Burke's part, his family's run-around is a Hyundai Santa Fe SUV. "I know, I know," he says, anticipating my question. "I'm embarrassed by it. But I believe the technology that's used in the Mega will eventually be incorporated into all cars. This is the future. No doubt." I don't doubt it either, but I would have no intention of trading in my car for the Mega just yet. What's often forgotten in the debate about greener cars is that many people actually enjoy driving. For them -- and I'm not just talking about Jeremy Clarkson here -- certain cars are evocative, exciting and downright thrilling. The Mega may be at the forefront of the new technology, but it's about as exhilarating as your grandmother's mobility unit. And 100pc electric mobility units have proved to be a hit at Green Machines, although Robert Nolan says the trade in all-electric scooters and motorbikes has been brisk. One of the bikes -- capable of going 100kph -- certainly looks the part and offers a reminder that in 2008 the words 'green' and 'sexy' can be used together. Later, I enjoy the thrill of being pinned back in the seat as I put the boot down on the accelerator of my own car. But when I see the emission trail in my rear-view mirror, I feel a pang of guilt that's more than fleeting. 
