cars
{  
    November 14 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/deals-on-wheels-26355230.html }
With the majority of the SSIA cash maturing next year, the motor industry will be in top gear to sell shiny new motors off forecourts. Potential buyers should check out the terms of finance deals before they start tyre-kicking in the car showrooms SSIA savers who are considering using their windfall for a new car should think again. The value of patiently accrued savings spent in this way will drop as soon as they drive off the forecourt. Furthermore, those who buy a car between January and June could find themselves losing thousands of euro on the deal. It's not so much that new car prices will increase significantly between now and next May, it's more that trade-ins are expected to drop in value. The key way to getting the best deal is to buy in the slack periods. Those at most risk from this dilemma are the Celtic Tiger cubs, who commute by crawl from the sprawl and are concerned at the wear and tear on those '00 cars bought at the turn of the millennium. Tempted by signs that new car prices are showing only marginal increases, they may feel reassured by car industry spokespeople who say that cars are unlikely to show a dramatic increase over the next six months. After all, in the 12 months up to last June, prices rose by an average of only 1.6pc. However trade-in values are likely to show their sharpest drops in two periods during the next seven months. In January the status seekers seeking to flaunt their '07 registrations will be queuing up to buy. On the other hand, some SSIA savers will be considering celebrating their windfalls to trade up and these prospective buyers may peak next May when up to 60pc of SSIA windfalls will be paid. So cars should see sales peak in January/February and again in May/June. Consequently trade-in deals are likely to be at their worst at those times, and those buying in between those peaks and before January may get better deals especially on new '06 reg cars. One industry spokesman predicts that car dealers may use the excuse that they have already got a surplus of the model that's being traded in. How often do you already hear the show room dealer say: "Sorry I'd find it hard to sell that model and I'd have to sell it onto the trade." Now even with the newer models there will be another excuse: "I‘ve already got four of those cars on my forecourt, I can only offer you so much..." Buyers may shop around but they are expected to find a similar response from other dealers. One way for buyers to try softening up the dealer is, of course, by taking out forecourt finance. However, this may not always work out best - unless you understand exactly what is involved, you may not get the deal which suits you. An even more cost-effective approach is to try selling your car privately. A buyer who comes unencumbered by a car can be in a stronger negotiating position than someone seeking a trade-in deal. By haggling, they may secure as good a discount, especially on new cars. Furthermore, without the complication of comparing trade-in values, a buyer can see more clearly which dealer is offering the keener discount off the recommended retail price. However, this type of 'cash buyer', as they are sometimes called, should not be confused with the cash buyer who comes with a trade-in and sufficient funds not to need a loan. Some SSIAS savers may confuse the two, believing that because they have their ?20,000 in savings, they will be able to automatically negotiate a better deal with a dealer. This is less likely these days, as most of the reputable dealers in new cars will apply the same terms for customers whether they are borrowing or funding from their own resources. Furthermore, SSIA savers should also consider ways to achieve a batter bang for their buck than by putting it into a car which depreciates. Instead, by investing some of the SSIA proceeds in a pension they are generating tax savings of up to 42pc. When combined with the prospect of 6pc-plus returns per annum on pension investment, then the pain of paying 7.1pc-9pc per annum on a car loan seems quite bearable. Alternatively, investing SSIA cash to improve a home could reap savings on energy bills or accommodate a lodger, while adding to the long-term value of the property. So it makes sense not to splurge your SSIA on cars, but instead to avail of the still prevailing relatively low cost of borrowing. However, borrowers should also be conscious of the prospect of interest rates continuing to rise, as some economists fear. For the cautious borrower, the option of a fixed rate loan offers peace of mind. However, such fixed rate loans come with penalties for those who redeem them before the term ends. Variable rate loans usually come without such penalties. Recently, the Financial Regulator's office urged motorists to consider the costs of buying and insuring the car before even choosing their car. IFSRA launched a 'Motor Pack' to help buyers through all the financial aspects of buying a car, from how to borrow money, to looking at the different types and costs of motor insurance. For a copy of the 'Motor Pack', lo-call 1890 77 77 77 or log onto www.itsyourmoney.ie.  Donal Buckley  Sarah-Jane drove around the market before settling on her Micra LOUTH woman Sarah-Jane Bird (above) checked out the market thoroughly before she signed up to a finance deal for her latest car. She was forced to change cars when she crashed her 04 Nissan Almera and has now just bought an 05 Nissan Micra. A native of Drogheda, who now lives in Clogherhead, she managed to change cars while keeping her monthly payments at the same level. The 23-year-old bought her latest car from Windsor Motors at Airside in Swords, Co Dublin, with forecourt finance provided by GE Money. She has a hire purchase deal for ?12,000 over five years, with the interest rate working out at 7.9pc. Ms Bird checked out all the personal loan rates online and researched car buyer guides before choosing her finance deal. "I like the idea of buying from a motor dealership especially as I got a service history book for the car which means you can see if anything went wrong with the car." The car she bought had just 6,000 miles on the clock, but with a 60 mile (96km) round trip every day, from her home in Clogherhead to her work in North County Dublin, the mileage is set to rapidly increase. Ms Bird, who owns her own house, works in marketing and can cope with repayments of ?240 a month on her car finance deal. "That works out at ?60 a week," she said. She avoided taking out payment protection insurance on the hire purchase deal. CHARLIE WESTON 
