cars
{ Eddie Cunningham 
    November 18 2014 04:39 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/motor-chiefs-reveal-how-many-new-cars-they-expect-well-buy-30754814.html }
MOTOR industry executives are forecasting a steady rather than dramatic increase in new-car sales next year. Some experts have previously pitched sales predictions as high as 120,000 (24,000 up on this year). But the majority of distributors who took part in our special Independent Motors survey are forecasting lower than that. They are the ones who have to order the cars on the basis of their analyses so there is a lot at stake - and they need to get it right. Most expect a 10,000 to 15,000 rise on this year's registrations of 96,000. Several are predicting 110,000 new-car registrations as the likeliest outcome by the end of next year. Those figures reflect a growing level of confidence, pent-up demand and availability of credit among buyers. But there are a number of other factors at play that nurture some caution. They include a natural overhang of uncertainty and the implications for dealers of financing a lot of second-hand stock from trade-ins in the short-term. Most are confident, however, that there will be substantial increases in sales of new cars and vans. They would prefer that as it offers something to build on in subsequent years rather than a dramatic rise that might be difficult to manage. Based on their respective analyses of so many factors, here is what they are telling Independent Motors: Audi chief Christian Gussen predicts 105,000 new-car registrations with growth in the mid-size executive segment. He also believes there will be widening interest in alternative powertrains, especially plug-in hybrids, such as their new A3 e-tron. BMW's Michael Nugent says that, encouraged by the growth in the market this year of 30pc+, they expect a further, but smaller increase next year. He believes the "more modest pace" will mean a total of 115,000 (+20pc). "This is in the context of much improved consumer sentiment and the availability of finance from the main street banks. "We have the strongest order bank we've seen for a number of years which features an increase in options ordered and a higher percentage of customers committing to larger engines." And he says more people are opting for a 4WD drive in their saloons and estates. Citroen Ireland managing director Frederic Soulier says: "We are forecasting a market increase of 9.5pc representing 117,000 sales, split between 105,000 cars and 17,500 vans." He reckons this year's fastest growing segments in the passenger market - the supermini and compact SUV sectors - will continue to expand. The number of family/fleet buyers is decreasing, he feels. But more than half (56pc) of motorists opted for a medium-sized 'small-family' vehicle this year. He thinks more customers will begin choosing petrol over diesel. Ford Ireland chief Eddie Murphy sees the high footfall in garages so far in November as an indication of strong level of sales in January. "PCPs are assisting dealers in putting more people into new cars." He is predicting 110,000 new-car sales for next year. "But I have a feeling it could go higher." He points out that a lot will be determined by how dealers can cope with the financial implications of handling and financing high volumes of trade-ins. Honda's managing director Adrian Cole tells me: "We are calling the market for 2015 at about 106,500 (10,000 up on 2014)." While the increase may not seem ambitious, he says: "We need to be mindful that more than a healthy component of the 2014 was artificially driven (pre-registrations). So, if we achieve a 'true' market of 106,500, it will represent a very positive progression towards a more sustainable new-car market level." He hopes the high second-registration peak in July this year will be repeated. It will be important for his company as they launch their new HR-V model into a SUV/crossover segment that "is expanding steadily at the expense of the more traditional segments". Hyundai's managing director Stephen Gleeson says there is an expecation of 110,000 new-car registrations next year. Jaguar Land Rover's Gerard O'Farrell feels the market is primed to head for 110,000 cars and 18,000 LCVs in 2015. "Recovery in the fleet/corporate sectors and rental market are likely to be more buoyant than private sales, although the latter are now more active than a year ago." He foresees "steady growth across most segments of the market". KIA's James Brooks expects a market between 110,000 and 115,000. He too predicts growth for compact SUVs but points out: "On a European level manufacturers are facing challenging CO2 targets and will need to increase their sales of smaller vehicles. All countries including Ireland will have to contribute to this." Mazda Ireland managing director Tony Howarth feels a conservative estimate would be a minimum of 108,000 but hopes it will be more. Again the SUV market looks like expanding exponentially with the compact sector particularly popular (they will have a new CX-3 next year). "The supermini segment will also continue to grow with increased younger entrants ... now able to afford a new car via attractive finance offers". Mercedes Ireland's sales manager Ciaran Allen is calling it for around 110,000 next year. He points to an SIMI survey showing distributors' average expectations are for 114,000. "We have a very positive view of the year ahead." He predicts a 20pc increase in sales for his brand. He expects more buyers of compact luxury cars (C-Class, Audi A4 etc) and feels there will be more buyers of family/fleet cars (VW Passat, Toyota Avensis etc). Mitsubishi's Gerard Rice reckons sales will hit 110,000. That is based on a "continued increase in consumer confidence". He also expects more buyers of SUVs, particularly compacts, and believes larger, family sized models will make a comeback. However, he sees a fall-off in numbers buying traditional large-family saloons; families will opt for seven-seaters. The commercial market will rise to 17,500 (16,000 this year), he predicts, noting a return of "4x4 business for large SUVs, reflecting a growth in GNP and local business activity". James McCarthy, chief executive Nissan Ireland, is hopeful new-car sales will top 110,000 (up 15pc on 2014). Many drivers are being attracted back, after many years away, because new cars are more affordable now with the likes of PCPs, he says. People are discovering the real cost of owning older cars is "no longer sustainable" and those who put off buying are back in the market. PCPs are, he says, giving them the chance to buy new "for relatively modest money in real terms". Full warranty, reliability, safety etc make the decision to re-enter the new car market "irrefutable", he adds. Opel's Dave Sheeran anticipates between 115,000 and 120,000 new cars and commercials will be registered. "This will be reflected in the commercial vehicles segment, with marked recovery in small and medium-sized businesses (and) a younger demographic returning to the market." He expects more buyers of small cars to emerge during the year. Peugeot's sales and marketing director Colin Sheridan says their order bank is showing significant growth already. "We forecast the 2015 passenger car market to be in the region of 107,000 - 112,000, and the light commercial van market to be circa 18,000." The compact SUV segment will forge ahead. Renault's Lynne Boucher expects registrations to top 110,000 cars and 20,000 vans. "I think the key growth area will continue to be the crossover segment." SEAT's Niall Phillips is calling it at 105,000 new cars. "We are seeing a better educated customer who is spending more time researching their car before ever reaching a dealership." Skoda's John Donegan is also calling it 105,000. He sees an increase in demand for estates. "We are seeing more buyers opt for these practical models which don't penalise in terms of CO2." Declan Maguire, Suzuki, forecasts an increase of about 15pc to around 110,000. Sales of cars in the lower-emission A-band will grow by at least 30pc, he predicts. They are up 43pc year to date. SUV buying grew by 60pc this year and the trend will continue, he predicts. The next biggest growth area will be small family cars. Few were bought during the recession but motorists have patched up their car long enough and will be forced to change. "It is the single biggest segment ... and contains the majority of the aged stock." SsangYong's Eoin Mulvihill also believes a large number of motorists will "finally bite the bullet and purchase in 2015". Steve Tormey, managing director designate at Toyota Ireland says: "We see the overall passenger car market being approximately 110,000 in 2015 with growth across all segments, such as within the C-SUV segment, which will increase again next year with continuing strong demand." Volkswagen's Paul Burke is calling it at 105,000. "We are likely to see an increase in the sales of petrol engines as these become cleaner and with lower road tax. "In many cases they are cheaper to buy and it would be difficult to make up the price difference." Volvo's managing director Adrian Yeates says this year's 30pc growth reflects a high level of customer confidence on the back of the improving economy. "With the Budget now in our rear-view mirror, there is renewed optimism in the trade that 2015 will be an even better year." He forecasts a total figure of 105,000 new-car sales next year. Irish Independent 
