cars
{  
    June 02 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/driver-was-doing-100mph-27471218.html }
Three passengers in a Mercedes which crashed into the front wall of a house claimed in evidence at Roscrea court that the driver was doing 100mph,...   Three passengers in a Mercedes which crashed into the front wall of a house claimed in evidence at Roscrea court that the driver was doing 100mph, and one of them said that when he was begged to slow down, he replied “If I am dying, then ye all are coming with me”. Judge Martin was also told by a Garda that a block from the wall was propelled through the front door of the house by the impact, and ended up against the back of an armchair in which a man was sitting. Before the court was Paul Moloney, 98 Kennedy Park, Roscrea, for whom Ms B.M. Owens, solr, appeared. Supt. Mulligan represented the DPP. Garda Brendan Kenny told the court that he was called to the scene of an accident at Mountheathon, Roscrea, on the night of October 14. It was on the bend of the road at Loughnane’s house. The car was proceeding in the direction of Roscrea, and the wall was demolished as a result of the accident. The car impacted with the wall in front of the house, and ended up in a position at the pillar closest to Mount St Joseph Abbey. The car was completely across the road, and was extensively damaged. Parts of the car were in the front lawn. Across on the far side of the road were a complete wheel and axle. A wheel hub was in the middle of the road fourteen feet from the pillar closest to the house. The car was a Mercedes. A section of pier impacted was driven 56 feet. It travelled across the lawn and only stopped when it hit the pillar of the back door of a parked car. Small blocks and debris were scattered across the lawn.The furthest block was 84 ft. from the point of impact. Another block of the wall impacted with the door of the house 35 feet away. It smashed through the front door, impacting with the jamb of the door, breaking the jamb of the door and the glass panel, scratching paint off the wall, and landed right behind Mr Michael Loughnane who was sitting in an armchair Garda Kenny said he thought it was miraculous that Mr Loughnane was not injured or killed, as the block was in two halves at the end of his seat. He said the accident scene was like carnage, the car was in bits and he didn’t know how anyone came out of it alive. He believed the accident occurred between 11-25 and 11-35 pm. To Ms Owens, he said it was a dry night.There was no gravel or stone on the roadway. The back end of the car was 92 feet from the point of impact. In his opinion it took considerable speed to cause the damage to the car and wall.A 12 ft. section of wall had been propelled across the lawn. Patrick Loughnane told the court he was at his fathers house on the night in question, and had parked his car there. At 11-30 he was in the sitting room and heard a bang, the curtain flew off the door. He ran out the back door and just saw a car on the road. There was one chap lying on the road who seemed to be unconscious. Other people in the car were trying to get out. There were four people, he opened the back door of the car. He recalled Paul Moloney was in the front of the car. Clifford Maher was lying on the floor of the car and seemed unconscious. Witness wrapped the man on the road in a blanket. Mr Michael Loughnane told the court he was in the front sitting room of his house, and heard an awful bang. Pat ran out then shouted back to him not to come out. Then he shouted to ring a doctor. Witness had been sitting in an armchair, and a concrete block came the door and hit the back of the chair. It was a 6 inch block, but it did not do him any harm. When witness plucked up courage, he went as far as the gate. He saw chaps lying on the road wrapped in blankets. Every inch of wall was wrecked. It was a 4 feet high wall, and the estimate for the wall and house repair was £6400. Roderick Corbett told the court that he had been in Loughnane’s pub Castle St, then had gone to the Mill house with others, including Paul Moloney. Richard Moloney drove.He had three or four pints in the Mill house, then they went to Birr, and had probably two or three pints there. They came back to Roscrea about eight or nine pm, and changed cars. Paul Moloney then drove in a Mercedes. They went to the Glue Pot in Ballingarry, and had three or four pints there as well. They left it around 11pm. In the Mercedes were Paul Moloney, Mark Walsh, Clifford Maher, Daniel Maher and himself. On the way back Paul Moloney was told to slow down a few times. He lost control outside Loughnane’s, witness said he was doing over 100 mph. Witness was thrown out of the car, and got leg and hip injuries. He was taken to Nenagh, then to the Regional and from there to Croom. He was about four weeks in hospital. To Ms Owens, he agreed he would have had about nine or ten pints. He understood they were going out to Ballingarry to drink. He was not aware defendant intended selling the car. He did not see defendant meeting a prospective purchaser, he only saw him playing pool there. Daniel Maher told the court he had been in Loughnane's pub, with his brother and Roderick Corbett. Outside they met Paul Moloney, Richard Moloney and Mark Walsh. Richard was driving an Avensis, and they went to Mill House. They were there till about seven. Witness had about three Guinness. They then went to Birr, had drinks and played pool. They came back to Roscrea. Paul Moloney went into his house and got the keys of the Mercedes. They went to the Glue Pot (everybody except Richard), where they played pool and had drinks.Witness had two or three pints, Paul Moloney was drinking cider. Around 11 o clock they headed back to Roscrea. Roderick Corbett was the front passenger. Witness was behind Paul Moloney, Mark Walsh was in the middle. Coming past the oil depot Paul Moloney put the boot to the floor. Witness begged him four times, but he wouldn’t listen. They came on a bad stretch of a road, he said “if I am dying, ye are all coming with me”.Witness said that he just closed his eyes. “I think he was doing 100, whatever it was, he was doing it. He was drinking out of a bottle of whiskey, I saw him buying that and seven up in the Glue Pot. I shouted to my brother to put on his safety belt. I just remember the car glancing off a pole and hitting off the wall of the house. I saw Roderick Corbett being pegged through the windscreen of the car. I saw Paul Moloney get out of the drivers side. He climbed over my brother, stood on his chest getting out the back of the car. I tried to get my brother out, I climbed out of the car. I saw Roderick Corbett on the ground. I collapsed, and recall waking up with Fr Bergin praying over me” Clifford Maher recalled going to the Mill House in the Avenis with Richard Moloney driving, and onto Birr. They returned to Roscrea and Paul Moloney got the keys of the 1996 Mercedes, and they went to Ballingarry. Witness said he had 2-3 drinks there. He was not drunk. On the way home he was in the back seat with his brother, and Mark Walsh. Roderick Corbett was in the front with Paul Moloney. Witness recalled that on the way home Paul Moloney had the foot on the accelerator. Witness ended up in Nenagh hospital. “I think he was doing 100, I saw him take a slug out of a bottle of whiskey while driving. I don’t recall the impact , I only remember waking up in hospital. I do remember before it, he was doing the guts of 100 mph”. Witness said he was three days in hospital three days, he had a fractured nose, dislocated shoulder and injured ribs. Garda Kenny, in further evidence, said he was on mobile patrol when he got a report on radio from Birr that there had been a serious traffic accident outside Loughnane's. He immediately went to the scene. On arrival the area was in total darkness. He saw bodies on the road then a green Mercedes. He radioed Birr for assistance, and asked for two ambulances. He was joined by Sergt O’Brien and two colleagues. He spoke to Paul Moloney and asked him who was driving, and he replied “ f..off, ye scumbags”. He spoke to Mark Walsh, but got no reply. One of the injured was asking for Richard, so witness thought there was another casualty, and searched around. Garda Kenny said that all this time Paul Moloney was staggering around, and was abusive to everyone, to the priest and other people. They were trying to hold him up against the wall, he was shrugging them off, and telling them to f..off. Later at 12-30 am in his presence, that of Sergt O’Brien, Fr Bergin and another man, before being taken away, defendant admitted driving. “We were trying to placate him to get to hospital, but he was obstreperous and uncooperative, to such an extent that the ambulance driver was afraid to take him, and asked for Gardai to go with him in the ambulance. There wasn’t room in the abulance. We brought him to the hospital in the patrol car. I sat in the back seat with him , and got the smell of alcohol. The abuse continued to about 12-30, he had calmed down somewhat by 12-30 when he admitted driving” To Ms Owens, he said Moloney had made an attempt to apologise that day in the precincts of the court. Sgt O’Brien said that initially he thought he was going to a fatal accident, thankfully it wasn’t. At the scene he met Garda Kenny, it was certainly carnage, there was debris all over the place. The ambulances had arrived. Paul Moloney directed abuse at Garda Kenny and himself. Garda Kenny asked him was he driving the vehicle, and he told them on a number of occasions to f..off. Eventually he did say he was driving. The ambulance driver asked witness to look after him, he couldn’t take him in the ambulance. “We had considerable difficulty in getting him in the patrol car, he used foul language, and we had literally to put him in the car, while conscious of the fact he might have an injury. The ambulance driver felt he had enough people in the ambulance and that defendant couldn’t be controlled” Paul Moloney, in evidence, said that they had gone to Mill house about 3 pm, then about 7 to Birr to O’Toole’s pub. His brother drove there. They came back to Roscrea then. He had to go to Ballingarry to the Glue Pot as a man was interested in buying the car. in Ballingarry, witness bought drinks, he bought drinks for the boys all day as they had no money. He only had one bottle of cider himself. The man drove the car out for a test but found it sluggish. Witness also bought a bottle of Southern Comfort in Ballingarry. He wasn’t going that hard on the way back, he didn’t think he had much diesel. The speed was 60 maybe bit more, but the car wouldn’t go high. It wouldn’t do 100mph, the top speed flat out in a Mercedes 220 would be 97mph. He said the bottle of Southern Comfort was in the car, he just put it to his nose to smell it that was all, he wasn’t drinking it. He said he hit his head off the air-bag in the accident. He thought the cause of it was maybe hitting stones on the road, maybe he pulled the steering wheel too far. That may have propelled him up on the ditch and the wall. To Supt Mulligan, he said he sells cars. He hadn’t succeeded in the selling the Mercedes to the man that night. The man had a 605 Turbo and thought this one was too sluggish. He denied climbing over a passenger to get out of the car after the accident. He said he had no explanation to the abuse, it was stupid. He had apologised to Garda Keown in Roscrea after because of all the talk around. Judge Martin imposed a sentence of six months, fine of £1000 and disqualification for ten years for dangerous driving, and three months on the public order offence. Witness expenses of £225 were allowed. Recognisances were fixed for appeal in own of £2000 and independent of £1000. 
