cars
{  
    August 29 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/long-way-travelled-long-journey-ahead-26112696.html }
As the motor car enters its third century, it is worth reflecting on how far it has come. There are now some 450m vehicles in use worldwide, and the internal combustion engine can probably claim to have been the defining technological development of the 20th century. In the western world we enjoy all of the benefits and suffer all of the problems associated with car use - and there are plenty of both. Environmental concerns are very real but to my mind the biggest single problem that we have is road safety. In 1869 the renowned botanist Mary Ward, cousin to the Earl of Rosse, was visiting the Earl at his estate in Birr Castle, Co Offaly. She was taking a spin around the estate in his motor vehicle when tragically she fell from the seat and was crushed beneath the wheels. This is reputedly the first ever death caused by a motor vehicle - and it happened here in Ireland. We have not got any better. On the evidence, we are a nation of bad drivers. I would not attach that label exclusively to young drivers; I think that we are all guilty to a greater or lesser extent of a kind of complacent road sloppiness that leads to accidents. Solving that problem requires a fundamental change in social values, backed by resources for education and for enforcement. Poor infrastructure is a huge part of our motoring woes. Our accident rates are due in some part to the poor quality of our Irish roads. Our congestion problem is certainly down to bad public transport. What frustrates the AA is that ordinary car users are held to blame for factors outside their control. Blamed for car use when no alternative exists, while cars themselves take an exaggerated share of the blame for the environmental problems of the world. The notion of a pervasive car culture is something that I have had occasion to debate and reflect on many times. It is my belief that the car is being scapegoated for a dozen modern problems. In a continually reinforced stereo-type, car use and car owners are vilified. The anti-car phrases phrases are loaded and misleading: the car kills, it congests, it pollutes. Anti-car sentiments are advanced unapologetically as if they were facts. The tone of the language is heavily emotive, but the arguments are very weak on analysis. The pollution issue is a case in point. Despite the quite phenomenal advances in emission control in the last decade, the car is still blamed. The advent of catalytic convertors, unleaded petrol and lean burn technologies mean that the car of 2000 is anything up to thirty times less polluting than the car of even ten years ago. These are very important issues for the world as global climatological problems become better understood. The significant air quality problems in our cities are now primarily associated with particulate emissions, specifically PM10s, which come from the heavy diesel engines of trucks and buses. Yet it continues to be the car user that gets blamed. This culture is encouraged by Governments, mindful of the revenue generation potential of taxes falsely described as `environmental'. The car does contribute carbon dioxide, a `greenhouse' gas. But it does not contribute anything like as much CO2 as either electricity generation or agriculture. Car technology is continually improving, answering its environmental critics. The ears of successive Governments are carefully deaf to these developments. The automobile is seen more than anything else as the biggest captive market for taxation. Despite the recent boom we still have relatively few cars in Ireland. The congestion that occurs in our cities, especially in Dublin, is not caused by car numbers but by poor infrastructure and a public transport system that is frankly lousy. This is not to demean the public transport companies. Dublin Bus in particular does a remarkable job given the circumstances of historical and continuing under-investment. The lines of traffic jams in the morning testify to how badly we have got it wrong. Those people do not occupy their cars out of some perverse desire to endure traffic jams. They do not have any sort of snobbery-based reluctance to use public transport either. Public transport, when it is good, readily attracts car owners. The success of the DART system demonstrates this. Car use has been the key economic enabler of the tiger era. More than 90pc of all freight moves by road. Transport comes third after food and housing in the expenses of the average Irish household. People do not spend money for the fun of it and they have not been hypnotised by a pervasive car culture. For commercial and leisure transport the motor car has been an enormous friend to us. The personal freedom and mobility that it allows have been central to improvements in our quality of life. Rural Ireland especially would be a very lonely place were it not for the car. Modern motoring carries many blessings. Our small country is completely tamed by it. Our cars are cleaner, safer and more reliable than ever before. Breakdowns when they occur are no longer traumatic or expensive - a mobile phone call brings help straight to you. There are problems, none more serious than road safety, but to demonise the car is not the answer. I prefer to look at the positive. The technological developments are potentially fantastic. We can comfortably predict an emission-free car running on renewable fuel. I would like to think that public transport will be the urban norm, while the car will come into its own for lifestyle and leisure journeys. These journeys will take place on ever better and ever safer roads. I hope and believe that the 21st century will see the car rise above its critics, address its problems and leave us with its blessings. But I am not hopelessly optimistic. I would bet that even if all of these things came to pass the Government would still find a reason to overtax us. Some things don't change. * Conor Faughnan is the Automobile Association's public affairs manager 
