cars
{  
    January 27 2015 04:15 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/should-i-buy-an-electric-car-should-we-downsize-whats-a-phev-30942669.html }
I drive a 2004 Mazda 6 2-litre diesel with BOSE stereo and all the trimmings. What is it worth? My husband drives a Mazda 6 too. My circumstances have changed and now I only cover 8,000km annually. I have always driven big cars but should I downsize? We are expecting a second child and might have a third in due course. I need room for buggies and shopping. I have around €10,000 plus my trade-in and would like a 2010 car or newer.  Aidan: Generally, once cars reach a certain age their additional goodies help them sell quicker rather than making them worth vastly more. Prepare the car properly and try selling it privately. You most certainly do not require a diesel car again. Nor, in my opinion, do you need a large family saloon. A medium family hatchback will suffice and enable you to maximise your budget to get as fresh a used car with as low an odometer reading as possible. Of course, a full service history should trump both of these qualities but with used cars it is mostly about striking a suitable balance. Petrol vehicles have only represented around 25pc of new car sales each year since 2009 and so choice will be limited. However, you should easily find a low mileage 2011 model Toyota Auris. It has a 1.33 petrol engine and costs €280 to tax annually. It will be frugal and spacious enough for two ISOFIX seats. If you want some additional space but are drawn to the Toyota brand, the Corolla has the same engine as the Auris and will perform similarly. Nissan's Qashqai is a sensible choice too. It is a bit taller than a regular family hatchback and some find that it provides additional comfort in terms of safety for children. 2010 petrol 1.6 versions should be attainable. Start enquiring about these models with dealers immediately. Even if they do not currently have, or know of, something similar that is due to arrive into stock, they could soon be working on a deal that involves one of these cars. Eddie, if this reader was to future proof her needs and buy an MPV, what would you recommend? Eddie: The Qashqai is an excellent suggestion. The Citroen Picasso (5/7 seats) can take three child seats too. It's popular so there should be a good few out there. I like the Toyota Verso. So easy to drive. And while older versions are dull looking, the Opel Zafira will do a great job for you. It has seven seats and is really flexible and versatile. The Renault Scenic is popular as well and I like the Volkswagen Touran purely for its practical nature. I know Aidan likes the Mazda 5. I'm not a major fan but it is a real option. As is the Ford C-MAX. I think you need to focus on the practicalities of two young children. People tell me all the time they had no idea just how much stuff they need on-board for ordinary everyday journeys - buggies, clothes, food etc. So give yourself a bit of scope. We have moved to a new house in an urban area which is well served by public transport. My husband's car serves as the main family vehicle. But I need a car for a few family errands and a little bit of socialising. A few people said I should get an electric vehicle as the running costs are so low. I like the idea of a 'green' car but I know there are downsides. I would value your opinion and advice on this please. I have a budget of €25,000. Or would I be better off with something else? Aidan: Electric vehicles, or EVs, are still in their infancy, though there is a good infrastructure. The shortcomings you refer to probably centre on three main concerns including limited range, slow charging speeds and the scant number of publically accessible charging points. However, considering the nature of your car's intended usage, these perceived drawbacks might not be much of a deterrent to you. So long as you are organised and battery conscious, an electric car should return market leading running costs at around 1c per kilometre. I will abstain from delving into whether electric cars are in fact any more ecologically friendly than fossil fuel-burning cars, but suffice it to say that lithium ion batteries and the manufacturing process of electric cars also have their own environmental impact. So, neatly sidestepping that one, let's look at some options. The Nissan Leaf and Renault Fluence ZE come in on budget. Some early adopters of electric car technology are trading their used Nissan Leafs into dealers so keep your eye out for those too. If a supermini-sized vehicle is ample, then the Renault Zoe electric car is cheaper than the Fluence and Leaf, and it could be right for you. However, if you want to take the car on a spin that exceeds the range of an EV (typically around 150kms) without having to plot a course that relies on stopping at dedicated charging stations then take a look at the Toyota Yaris Hybrid. A brand new Luxury model costs €20,500. It has a battery for slow speed town driving and a 1.5 litre petrol engine for motorway cruises and for when the battery is drained. It could represent an ideal balance between fully electric and fully fossil. Eddie: I have a blunt answer for you. Owning an electric car means changing your mindset. Not a big deal; you just have to get into planning charging times and realising that making any sort of lengthy journey may involve a stop for a booster. If you realistically cover no more than say 80km/100km a day you'll be absolutely fine. Just don't underestimate how far you travel; 80km is 40km each way. It isn't that much really. I read a lot about plug-in hybrid vehicles and wonder if they would suit me as I cover a lot of the country every week - around 1,000km. Are they expensive to buy? What do you think? I don't have a family but sometimes I would have a couple of passengers. Aidan: A PHEV (Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle) is an amalgamation of three types of cars; a regular petrol, a hybrid and fully electric vehicle. The batteries in a PHEV can be charged from the mains in your house or from the kinetic energy produced by the engine and wheels. It can be driven purely by the batteries or the engine can boost the motors - or a combination of both. If you want, you can tell the car to ignore the batteries or summon the engine to charge them and even adjust the rate of that charge. It sounds complicated but rest assured every variable and component work in harmony. Besides you can always simply leave it in 'auto'. Prices for the Audi A3 eTron start at €40,000. The Mitsubishi Outlander PHEV is €41,950. Audi claim the A3 eTron can return 1.5 litres per 100 kilometres. Covering 1,000km weekly will require some diligence with charging from a mains as this will boost efficiency (most do up to 50km on electric alone). All PHEVs have automatic transmissions and are generally well kitted out. Diesels are cheaper and have a proven track record. Both have their merits but there is something very alluring to driving cutting edge design and technology, isn't there? Eddie: Plug-ins essentially are electric cars with engines to boost their charging facility on the move. So electric is primary and petrol/diesel second. Pure hybrids, meanwhile, look for electricity to supplement the engine as often as possible. That is the keen distinction. The PHEVs are costly enough but you get around €7,500 in VRT rebates and SEAI grants. I've driven both cars that Aidan has mentioned and there is no doubt they will cover big mileage. The Audi A3 e-tron has a 1.4-litre TFSI 204bhp engine and a 940km range - so you're not far off your 1,000km. The Outlander has a 2-litre petrol engine and an 824km range. Irish Independent 
