cars
{  
    March 17 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/graveyard-for-old-bangers-26122233.html }
We are buying more new cars and dumping thousands  of old ones as the Celtic tiger turns us into a throwaway society. But what happens to the family It was once your pride and joy; washed, waxed, hoovered and dipped for oil once a week and cherished like an old friend. It may have been your first Ford Fiesta after you graduated as a nurse, the Nissan Bluebird which started first time on a frosty winter morning when you rushed your wife into maternity or the little Toyota with back seats that saw plenty of action at the Rose of Tralee or the Galway races. But where do those old friends end up and why should it concern you now? The death throes of old motors is now a major environmental issue. There is hardly a city town or village across the country where dumped or abandoned cars are not a significant problem, an ugly eyesore and a blot on the Irish landscape. These old cars are an unsavoury by-product of the Celtic tiger and stark evidence of a new feckless disposal society. They are dumped on the roadside, driven into the Royal or Grand Canal or bought for £20 a piece by grief riders to bring terror to city housing estates. We are dumping cars by the thousand every month while 1,200 brand new models were bought a day nationwide during the first two months of the new millennium. The successful scrappage scheme which meant a £1,000 bounty on old jalopies brought a rapid and sustained increase in the number of old cars dumped, brought to the breaker's yards for spare parts or loaded on lorries for ultimate disposal or recyling. Now the new road test for older cars has signalled a rapid increase in the number of vehicles which, though in working order, are not fit to pass the examiner's scrutiny without significant cost. Instead the owners are buying new cars and scrapping the older model. If you scrapped your car 10 years ago, you would at least have the satisfaction of getting a few shillings to ease the pain of parting. Now you have to pay £25 or £50 to get rid of the old wreck. The breakers say their profits are down because fewer people are looking for spare parts to keep their older cars running and are buying new or at least newer models instead. That means there isn't as much profit as there used to be in the spare parts game. But after the breaker has taken out the two good doors, the right front headlight and whatever else is useful from the car what happens to it next? There's a good chance that it may end up in a facility like the Hammond Lane Metal Company in the heart of Ringsend, one of the country's biggest recyling plants which scraps 800 cars a week a 30 to 40% increase in the last year. They used be called scrap metal merchants but in these politically correct days they are now dubbed metal recyling plants. Hammond Lane is the ultimate car graveyard with 300 tonnes of metal a day processed and reduced to almost bite sized, or rather fist sized pieces by a 1,250 horse power car eater stationed in the heart of the 4.5 acre facility. ``There has been a significant increase in the number of cars being reprocessed by us in the last year and we expect that growth to continue,'' says plant manager Noel O'Reilly. The old days when a car went into a huge crusher at one end and emerged at the other as a TV sized cub are long gone, according to Noel O Reilly. ``That image of a solid cube emerging from a crusher is old technology. Now the car is shredded and its constituent parts separated out, steel, aluminium, copper, for efficient recycling. Old cars are fragmentised and divided into their constituent parts to aid effcient disposal.'' Many of the cars coming into Hammond Lane are brought in by Dublin Corporation who collect old abandoned and sometimes burnt out cars from various parts of the city, while the rest come mostly from breakers. ``It's usually the shell which comes in to us, weighing about 800 kilos and largely made of ferrous metal (steel) worth about £50 a tonne on the open market. Non-ferrous metals like aluminum can be worth about 10 times as much as steel on the open market.'' Quite a lot of a car, about 35% is total waste, stuff like plastics and upholstery which are currently dumped in land fill facilities. In fact it does serve a purpose. As relatively ``clean'' rubbish it makes a good ``top dressing'' for more unsavoury organic waste in dumps. But because of the shortage of landfill sites the cost of dumping this waste has increased dramatically to £50 a tonne now from just £10 a tonne a few years ago. ``It's a signicant cost penalty for us,'' says Noel O'Reilly. Once reduced to chunks the shredded car is sent to Cork or Spain to be melted down while non ferrous metals are sent to Britain to be recyled. We have spent close on £850m in buying an unprecedented 72,081 new vehicles since January 1st, an indication that more and more cars are heading for the scrapuyard. The buying spree shows no sign of abating, with car distributors' record books bulging for the coming months. But many old cars which should be recycled and properly scrapped are instead being abandoned by owners because they have no chance of passing the national car test or are being bought by criminals and joyriders for as little as £60. A government minister has called for tighter local authority and garda checks to clamp down on indescrimate or careless dumping Junior Minister Wille O'Dea said he feared that many of the old vehicles were now being used for joyriding. Gardai are empowered to impound cars if they have no insurance, no tax for the preceding three months or if a vehicle is being driven by an under-age person. If the car is not reclaimed within six weeks gardai can dispose of it either by scrapping it or selling it by tender. In two decades the problem of recycling old cars will be eased as a new generation of eco-friendly cars hit the show rooms. Ford are convinced that the auto industry is moving toward an era when old cars will become `technical nutrients' by recycling almost 100% of each old car into completely into new vehicles. 
