cars
{  
    October 24 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/fined-banned-for-being-drunk-in-control-of-car-27780163.html }
A PAINTER-decorator arrested for being drunk in charge of a vehicle said the car was for sale and he was only checking it out, Balbriggan District Court heard. Derek Lennox of 3 Newhaggard Cottages, Lusk, was banned from driving for two years for the offence at The Square, Lusk, on October 11, 2001. Garda Niamh Creaton said she was on patrol with Garda Niall Gillooly at 1.45am on the night in question. She observed the defendant in the vehicle at the car park at Murray’s pub and decided to speak to him. As she got out of the patrol car, she could see the car’s lights were on and heard its engine was running. An unknown male had been speaking to the driver through the window and as she got out, she saw him reach in, take the keys from the ignition and flee the scene. Garda Gillooly pursued him on foot. As she took the defendant’s name, she noticed that his eyes were glassy, his speech was slurred and there was a smell of alcohol on his breath. She informed him that he was being arrested for being drunk in charge of a vehicle. He made no reply after caution and she arrested him at 1.50am. They arrived in Balbriggan Garda Station at 2.05am Dr Gujral arrived at 2.48 and the defendant provided a urine sample which later had a reading of 224mg of alcohol per 100ml of urine. Cross-examined by Solicitor Donogh McGowan, Garda Creaton said the car the defendant was found in had been just outside the entrance to the pub’s car park. She denied that the ‘unknown man’ (Noel Murphy) was in the process of leaving the scene when the gardaí arrived. Mr McGowan put it to her that Mr Murphy did not run from the scene, and that Mr Lennox had thrown the car keys to him before the gardaí arrived. Garda Creaton said Garda Gillooly did not speak to the defendant before she arrested him and if he had spoken to him at all, it would have been in the patrol car on the way to the garda station. In evidence, Garda Gillooly said he saw the defendant’s vehicle on the roadside outside the car park. There was a person talking to the defendant through the driver’s window. The lights were on, the engines were running and he could see steam coming from the exhaust pipe, as it was a cold night. He saw the man reach in and take the keys. The lights went out and the engines stopped and the man ran away in the direction of Rush. The man threw the keys into bushes and kept running. The garda picked the keys up and returned to the defendant’s car. He put the keys into the ignition and they were the correct keys. The person who took the keys out of the ignition was in court and the garda said he could identify him. He had run to the end of the car park before throwing the keys away. It had been ‘a distinctly cold night’ and the garda had no problem seeing the car’s exhaust steam. Garda Gillooly said in cross-examination that he slowed the patrol car before coming in off the main road and onto the scene. He had no conversation with the defendant other than telling him they were going to Balbriggan Garda Station when they were in the patrol car. When Mr Murphy continued to run away, he did not stop him and did not know his name at that time. Mr McGowan put it to the garda that he shouted after Mr Murphy, grabbed him against a wall and said ‘what have we here, are those the keys?’ The garda denied this. Mr McGowan said his client would say that Garda Gillooly approached him, told him he was going to arrest him for drunk driving and the defendant said he had not been driving. He would say the garda then said he was arresting him for being drunk in charge and when the defendant replied that he did not have the keys, the garda shouted after Mr Murphy and ran after him. Garda Gillooly denied this. In evidence, Derek Lennox said he was in the pub on the night in question when he was approached by a man whop said he had a car for sale and offered him the keys to check it out. The car was inside the entrance of the car park when he got inside and Noel Murphy asked him for the keys. He gave Mr Murphy the keys and said he would call a taxi. Mr Murphy had started to walk away when the gardaí pulled up in front of the entrance. The male garda approached him and said he was going to arrest him. When the defendant told him he did not have the keys of the car, the garda ran after Mr Murphy, he said. He denied that Mr Murphy had been leaning in the window talking to him when the gardaí arrived. The night was ‘freezing’ and he had been sitting in the car waiting for a taxi. He insisted that the lights and engines were off. He had turned the lights on earlier to check the car out, but the keys were not in the ignition when the gardaí arrived. He was sure that the car was inside the steel bar at the car park entrance. Noel Murphy told the court he met the defendant in Murray’s on the night and they had a couple of drinks and played a few games of pool. When the defendant went outside to the car, Mr Murphy said ‘you are not thinking of driving, are you?’ the defendant said he was not, and Mr Murphy took the keys and said he would leave them in to him the following day. The car was inside the car park facing a hedge. The witness said he was walking away when he heard someone shout: ‘Hey! Come here!’ He dropped the keys behind a wall, and the garda grabbed him and said ‘what have you dropped there?’ The garda shone his torch behind the wall, got the keys and went back to the car. The witness said he had met the defendant on a number of occasions. He was about 10 yards away from the car when the garda arrived. Insp Sean Galwey asked the witness why he went out the Rush Road when he lived in Kelly Park. He replied that he was ‘bursting to go to the toilet’ and intended going around the back of the chip shop. ‘Aren’t there heaps of hedges and ditches between where you were stopped and Kelly Park that could have given you enough cover?’ Inspector Galwey asked. The witness said there were, but he urgently needed to go. He said he had walked along a footpath before dropping the keys behind a small wall with a hedge behind it. Judge Catherine Murphy said their was a significant conflict of evidence in the case and Mr Lennox and Mr Murphy had been ‘unreliable’ in their evidence. She did not accept that the defendant had been waiting for a taxi, as he would have been unable to lock the car door without the keys. The defendant had one previous conviction for malicious damage in 1989. Mr McGowan told the court his client had driven for 20 years without any driving convictions. He was separated and supporting two children. The disqualification would affect his livelihood. He was banned from driving for two years for being drunk in charge and fined E250. He was fined a further E150 for driving without insurance and the judge imposed a concurrent six-month disqualification. Charges of driving without insurance and failing to produce his documents were taken into consideration by the court and recognisances were fixed in the event of an appeal. 
