cars
{ Eddie Cunningham 
    September 19 2014 05:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-talk/tough-decision-should-you-buy-new-or-secondhand-30600817.html }
THE minute you drive that new car out of the dealership it is worth hundreds, possibly thousands, less. Why on earth would you spend thousands on something that is going to lose value at such an alarming rate? After three years, good cars are worth 50 to 55pc of their original value. Some might hold 60pc; some 40pc. There have been rare occasions and models when a car has held on better than that but believe me it has been the exception - and in different times. So let's call a spade a spade: most cars lose around half their value in three years or so. Why would you be bothered throwing all that money away? Would it not be far wiser to wait and buy it as a three-year-old when it has shed so much value? There is certainly merit in that argument. I have always leaned towards secondhand, I must say, but of late I've dithered a bit because of a few developments. I'll tell you why later. Let me first make the case for buying secondhand. There is the main reason, already mentioned, of saving a fortune on depreciation. Cars are much better now and a good three-year-old that has been minded and serviced (never buy without a service history; you are looking for trouble) will go for years and years. I can't stress enough, by the way, that you should never buy without a service history. It is liking buying a heifer without any identification, source or origin. With things looking up on the economic front, I expect more people to change to a new car every three years or so. In the good times they did so and their cars might only have done 7,000km to 10,000km a year on the clock. That's nothing in modern cars. They are only broken in. They're the dream car to buy and worth a bit more because regardless of mileage the owner will have taken a big hit on depreciation. It is the sort of car you could have for years without a bit of trouble. Cars are, in the main, a bit better minded these days too and while we still have bad roads in places there are not as many consistent stretches of lumps, humps and divots to pound the hearts out of a car. That means areas such as tyres, shocks, springs, steering, joints, underbody, exhausts etc should be in better condition. And if you are buying a four-year-old or older car, the NCT test does tend to push people towards keeping them in reasonable nick on an ongoing basis. By the way, never, ever buy one that has fewer than 12 months to its next NCT (unless it is 10 years or older). Ask yourself why is it for sale with such a short time to go? Older cars have less feckity things on them too. These tend to push up the price of newer cars which depend so much on electronics. If there is one area where we are all left prone to a costly repair, it is in electronics. So much of the modern car is totally reliant on them. Often, more basic cars give less trouble. And so there is a brief overview of reasons why you should buy secondhand. You get low cost, mileage and maintenance and on that basis you'd want to be crazy to buy new wouldn't you? Well, yes and no. First off, the older the used car - and we can't all afford three-year-olds - the greater the likelihood of something going wrong, obviously. Not alone that, though, there is always a niggling worry at the back of your mind that it might start giving trouble on a number of fronts. Then you are bunched. A mechanic's time costs as much to fix an old car as a new one, so the bills can rack up fairly lively. And even with a three-year-old, say, the difference in fuel consumption, roominess, comfort and, above all, safety can be substantial. Modern diesels, and increasingly petrols, are significantly more frugal than their counterparts of just a few years back. I know you'd be a long time making up the difference of €10,000 between used and brand new, but you would be surprised how much a week you'd save if you are doing reasonable mileage. And you get a minimum of two years' guarantee. You'd be doing well to get six months with most secondhand cars. When it comes to new motors, most brands now have three or four years warranty. Indeed some have five, seven and even eight years - and subsequent buyers benefit because the warranty carries over. There are terms and conditions to be observed as well as normal wear-and-tear parameters to meet. But in the main you don't have to worry about big repair bills for a long time. You do with an ageing used car. What is that worth in terms of peace of mind? It really is a matter for yourself but there is a price on everything. However, I have absolutely no apologies for reserving the biggest reason of all for buying new until last. Safety. It is easy to overlook advances in the area because we have, I think, come to take a lot of the technologies, devices and systems for granted. I also think, if I'm being honest, that we are a bit overpowered by the breadth and sophistication of equipment now on board the most basic new car. What was for the super-specced versions three years ago is now common place and old hat in some circumstances such is the pace of technological advancement.. And when all is said and done if you are going to be driving your family then you want the safest car you can afford. It is a balancing act between keeping purchasing costs down and making sure you have the safest car for your family. Sometimes we overlook the safety issue in the whole mix of what we should expect from our cars and for our families. Finally, regardless of what you buy please try to stack the odds in your favour by purchasing something that will also beat the average depreciation. It goes without saying that cars that tend to hold value well include household names such as the Toyota Corolla, Volkswagen Golf, Honda Civic, Nissan Qashqai, Audi A3, Ford Focus, MINI hatch, Hyundai i30 and Skoda Octavia. But don't overlook cars such as the Audi A4, Kia Cee'd, Lexus IS, Mercedes C-Class, Opel Astra saloon, Peugeot 208 either. And finally: Not everything should be about money. If you have a good dealer, someone you trust and have dealt with for years, you have someone worth their weight in gold because you have back up. That is important with a new car - but absolutely vital with a secondhand one. Good luck with your purchase and I hope you have many years of safe driving. Indo Farming 
