cars
{  
    June 29 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/pay-balbriggan-car-damage-compensation-or-go-to-jail-27784880.html }
A MAN who refused to tell the gardai who was driving his car after an accident outside a Balbriggan nightclub was told to come up with more than £700 compensation for a woman whose car was damaged by next week or he would go to jail. Before Balbriggan court was John Byrne (19), 44 Griffith Drive, Finglas East, Dublin 11, charged with being intoxicated at Tankardstown on March 18 last and with failing to give appropriate information to a garda following the accident on the same night. Byrne pleaded guilty on both counts. Garda Brian Bell told the court that he had received a report of a traffic accident near a local night club at the Harbour at around 2.25am on the date in question. When Garda Bell arrived at the scene he spoke to Ms Charlotte Kelly, who explained that she had been stationary in her car when another car attempted to drive between it and the wall. There obviously had not been the space to do so and her car was damaged to the value of more than £600, the court heard. The defendant was pointed out to the garda as being one of a group of youths in the car. Garda Bell said he asked the defendant if he was the owner of the car and the man replied that he knew nothing about the incident and had arrived in Balbriggan by taxi that night. Byrne later arrived in the front lobby of the garda station where Ms Kelly and a number of friends were sitting badly shaken from the incident, the court heard. The other car involved in the incident had been hidden up a driveway about 100 yards from the scene and when the defendant had discovered the car was missing he came to the garda station, Garda Bell said. He was very drunk when he came in and admitted that the car was his but said he had not been driving it. Byrne got very aggressive and very concerned that Ms Kelly’s car had been damaged. He was arrested under the Public Order Act and brought inside to the station. A witness told the garda that the defendant was in the rear of the car at the time of the accident. Garda Bell told the defendant that he was obliged to tell him who was driving as it was his car. ‘He denied all knowledge of it,’ Garda Bell said. Solicitor Ms Caroline Egan said her client pleaded guilty to the public order offence. He had undertaken to produce his documents. Garda Bell said that it was only on the morning of the court that the defendant had decided to admit the offences. It was the second or third time the case had been called and when the defendant knew there were witnesses to the incident present in court last week, the garda said. Asked by Judge Sean MacBride whether there were witnesses expenses, Garda Bell said that the incident had been rather upsetting to the witnesses and that they did not want any expenses for coming to court. Garda Bell said he accepted all along that the defendant was not driving the car when the incident occurred. Judge MacBride said that Byrne did know who was driving the car. ‘I would imagine he does,’ said Garda Bell. A number of people ran from the scene and the gardai were unfortunately unable to get the driver, the court heard. All the defendant had told the gardai was a possible name and a rough area where the person might live, the court heard. Another man in the car had been involved in threatening the women in the car at the scene and the gardai had apprehended him and he had been before the courts. Judge MacBride commented that the charges were very serious and asked if the defendant had any previous convictions. Garda Bell said he had not come to his attention before. Byrne did not live in the area. Ms Egan submitted that her client did not threaten the women in the other car. Judge MacBride said that he knew who the individuals were but was ‘not prepared to sing’. ‘He might be singing in a different place before the evening is over,’ said the judge. Ms Egan said that Byrne had come out to a nightclub in Balbriggan where he met another individual but did not go in to the club. He later returned to pick up his girlfriend from the night club. He was a passenger in the car which he had bought the day before. It was not insured and he accepted that. The individual he met at the night club drove the car to Balbriggan. Byrne was afraid at the time to give any details but gave them on the morning of the court hearing, Ms Egan said. Her client was ‘only 19’ and a single man living at home with his parents. He had three brothers and two sisters and both his parents worked for a rehab centre. Judge MacBride said that the ‘bottom line’ was that the defendant had ‘come out to this part of the world’ and was the owner of the vehicle which he had let another person drive. That person ‘rammed into a car’ in which an innocent girl had been sitting with her friends and then threatened her. The defendant had then led the garda ‘a merry dance’ and denied all knowledge. Garda Bell pointed out that the defendant did not personally abuse or threaten Ms Kelly and her friends but that he denied being in the car at all ‘at any stage’. The defendant had been in the car when Ms Kelly’s car was rammed but only admitted it when he realised there were witnesses in court. Judge MacBride said that the defendant would be going ‘inside for some period’. He said he would jail Byrne for six months and suspend the last three months. He would have given him six to 12 months if he had not pleaded guilty, the judge said. It was a very serious matter and Byrne had been associating with people who were less than savoury. ‘He allowed other people to drive the car which he shouldn’t have done and he had a car with no insurance.’ A spell in jail would ‘concentrate his mind’. ‘It’s outrageous behaviour,’ the judge said. Making a plea for leniency, Ms Egan said her client had not been in trouble before and did not have a drink problem or a drug problem. No other member of the defendant’s family had been in trouble before. Byrne had indicated that he was willing to compensate Ms Kelly for the damage to her car. Judge MacBride said he wanted Ms Kelly fully compensated and that if Byrne wanted to avoid going into Mountjoy he wanted £100 paid to Ms Kelly plus the £639.59 to cover the damage to her car. The judge wanted an agreement that all the money would be handed into court in cash on Thursday June 29. ‘Otherwise it’s jail this evening. I’m going to get down real rough and tough for the victims of crime. I’m not going to have decent people blackguarded by this gentleman or anyone else,’ Judge MacBride said. ‘Opportunity knocks and if the answer is no, he’s going to jail.’ The judge told Byrne to take the oath and to ‘sing it out loud’ and apologise to Ms Kelly before the court. Byrne apologised and said it wouldn’t happen again. Judge MacBride adjourned the case to this Thursday and said that Ms Kelly and her family or her boyfriend could go ‘out for a meal’ with the £100 compensation. 
