cars
{ Aidan Timmons and Eddie Cunningham 
    January 06 2015 04:04 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/thinking-of-buying-soon-here-are-a-few-tips-to-help-you-along-the-road-30886923.html }
As we start the new year, many are giving serious thought to what do about their next used car. Towards the end of last year we ran a piece advising you on how to make sure you get the best deal possible. Since then we have had lots of people on asking for updates on specific areas and expansion on others. Now seems like as good a time as any so here goes. COST TO CHANGE After you have made the decision about what model you want and shopped around for prices etc, this is the one thing you simply have to keep in mind ALL the time. It is all about what the car is going to cost you - NET. Not what you are getting for your trade in and not how much the dealer is knocking off the list price of the newer car. It's called the 'cost to change'. Let's say one dealer is asking €20,000 for the car you have picked out and you are being allowed a trade-in allowance of €11,000 for your own car. Then, let's say, In a dealership not so far away, you are quoted €19,000 for the car but you are only being offered €10,000 for your own. Obviously the gap between the two is the same but we are always amazed at the number of people who buy from the dealer who offers most for the trade-in. It's as if it is taken personally or something. It would be far better if you had a good look around and size up the dealership (more below) and consider other aspects of the deal. It's not a time to get personal over your car. TAKE YOUR TIME The secondhand market tends to gather pace as the month of January moves along and more models are traded-in against new ones. So take your time. There is no rush and the selection will improve as time goes by. This is important because people do tend to want to do business quite quickly. There will be plenty of cars to choose from if predictions about increased new-car buying are any way accurate at all. You are not missing much buying in March or April rather than in January. SERVICE HISTORY SINCE we published a story in the Irish Independent news section a few days back about one-in-seven cars being clocked, the whole area of accountability and recording of mileage has taken on even more importance. Full service records are an absolute necessity before anyone should even consider looking at a used car. Unless there is a full, and traceable, service record do not go near a car. No matter how great a 'bargain' it appears to be. Ask yourself: Why is it a bargain? Here's a few small tips: Always seek a verifiable service history and NCT cert Make sure the service history book is stamped Call the previous garage to verify the reading Most vehicles nowadays can be plugged in to check if an odometer has been tampered with. Get a qualified automotive engineer to carry out a full-point check on the car if you want to be absolutely sure. THE CAR YOU NEED Make a clear distinction between the car you need and the one you'd love. We've had a good few emails asking us to explain what we mean by this. Simple. You need a car that ticks ALL your demands not seven out of 10. Because, trust us, you will live to regret it. Do not be swayed by the looks or add-ons on something that will compromise use in other areas (such as room or boot). Cars cost far too much for you to cut corners on what you really need. IT FITS YOU We seem to be saying 'take your time' a lot but this is a big decision and you will reap what you sow in terms of preparation. Some garages now are giving cars out for a few hours or a day so people can get a genuinely 'everyday' feel for them. It is a laudable practice and one you should avail of if you can at all. Check adjustment on the steering wheel and the seat. Anyone who is going to spend an hour or two every day in a car needs to make sure they are totally comfortable and not condemned to a crouched, awkward pose - a sure recipe for a painful back, shoulders and neck. WARRANTY The longer the warranty the more secure you will feel, naturally enough. Peace of mind comes at a price, of course, and the longer the warranty the more the overall package is likely to end up costing you. That is where buying from a reputable dealer is worth more than money. As we've said many times before there is nothing worse than handing over big money for repairs four months after buying a car with a three-month warranty. CHECK OUT THE DEALER We referred to this above. Take a good look around. Is there good backup; is there a decent service area? How are people being treated? How professional an all-round service is the seller delivering do you think? What is your instinct about the place and the people working in it? Talk to others about how they are or have been treated by the dealer. As has often been said: you might save €200 on a 'better' deal 40kms away but if something goes wrong which one would you prefer to call? A good dealer is priceless. Don't let money be your sole preoccupation when buying. SPECIAL EDITIONS Keep an eye out for special edition specifications. For a number of years car sales were so poor that manufacturers tried to attract as many buyers as possible by cramming in the latest technology and creature comforts. It might be worth taking some time to research whether the car you are considering buying was treated with some special edition specification or if your budget coincides with a 'run-out' model. Quite often manufacturers dress up outgoing models with really high levels of specification. Worth checking. CREDIT Take great care you don't overstretch yourself financially. It is much easier to do than you'd think. Going from repayments of €250, for example, to €320 doesn't sound like that much in the overall scheme of things. But by our calculations it comes to €840 a year more. For anyone on PAYE that could mean as much as €1,500 or so extra you have to earn before tax. When added to your monthly outgoings it can start applying pressure to other areas; something else may be suffering. Do your sums and stick to them. Credit has freed up considerably and makes purchasing a car more attractive now. But it is always advisable to take plenty of time to study the various permutations available. COOL OFF Give yourself a couple of days to 'cool off'. It can be exciting and fun to be buying a 'new' car. Give yourself a chance; don't be rushed. If the car you fell in love with is gone when you go back, trust us, another will come along to replace it. Don't rush into anything. There is too much at stake. BEST OF LUCK And when you do buy, be careful out there on our roads. We wish you good buying and safe driving.   Email: ecunningham@independent.ie Irish Independent 
