cars
{  
    March 17 2010 12:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/lifestyle/mazda6-is-what-car-family-car-and-estate-car-of-the-year-2010-27143945.html }
THE Mazda6 has been crowned both 'Family Car' and 'Estate Car of the Year 2010' at the prestigious annual What Car? Awards. The Mazda6 impressed a panel of three judges with its performance, reliability and affordability after evaluating the Mazda6 model range in the 'Family Car' and 'Estate Car' category. Now in its 33rd year, the What Car? Car of the Year Awards compares 392 different models across 16 major categories. Steve Fowler, editor of What Car? commented: "The Mazda6 Hatchback and Estate outclassed contenders in the 'Family Car' and 'Estate Car' category with its overall package of practicality, value for money and good looks proving too much for the competition. The Mazda6 ticks all the right boxes when it comes to company car and family car drivers making an informed car purchase". Peter Lawson, panel judge for the 'Family Car' category commended the Mazda6 for its practicality, comfort, class, reliability and it's fun to drive appeal, claiming: "If you choose wisely, you can have all these talents wrapped up in one car: the Mazda6." He added: "What's more, this Mazda's resale values are stronger than a body-builder's biceps." Brian Reynolds Car Sales is delighted with the award: "Feedback from our customers who have purchased the Mazda6 echoes the sentiments of the What Car? jury. The design of the Mazda6 has attracted many new customers to the brand, while reliability and low running costs normally associated with all Mazda cars ensured the Mazda6 has been a stronger seller for us since its launch", according to Alan Reynolds,Sales Director Last year, the Mazda6 was awarded the five-star maximum rating by the European New Car Assessment Programme* (Euro NCAP) in its 2009 combined safety performance test. Euro NCAP implemented a new assessment system that awarded a single overall vehicle safety rating composed from scores achieved in four areas of assessment: Adult Occupant Protection, Child Protection, Pedestrian Protection and Safety Assist. To celebrate the What Car? double award win, Brian Reynolds Car Sales is showcasing the Mazda6 with attractive price offers. "The Mazda6 range is available from € 24355*, during the month of March. When you factor in the low road tax from € 302, and excellent fuel economy of 5.5L/100km (51mpg), quite simply the Mazda6 is a logical and smart choice for those in the market for a family car," adds Alan. To arrange a test drive call Brian Reynolds Car Sales,on 041 9839338 or visit their impressive showrooms at East Coast Business Park, Matthews Lane, Drogheda. * excluding dealer related charges 
