cars
{ Ralph Benson 
    May 15 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/taking-the-drivers-seat-in-new-car-sharing-concepts-26220568.html }
IMAGINE having a car of your choice delivered to your door whenever you  needed it. Imagine being able to drive a Mini or a Merc - for a fraction of the present cost of owning a car. Imagine being able to park for nothing in the city centre, and not  having to worry about road tax, insurance, servicing and repairs. This is the reality for growing numbers of people in Europe, the US, the UK and Canada who have joined pay-as-you-drive car clubs. One car-share group describes the concept as a taxi that you drive yourself. The car-share company buys the car, and handles all paperwork, servicing and repairs, tax, and insurance. You have a share in the ownership, paying a regular subscription plus an hourly rental rate (in London, Smartmoves charges stg£12 a month and stg£2.30 per hour). Car-sharing means you use a car when you need it, and when you don't, you're not paying for it. At the car-share parking rank, you swipe a smartcard, and drive off. In Hamburg you can reserve a car using your mobile phone; in other towns reservation isn't even necessary. In gridlocked Ireland, the AA calculates that the annual cost of owning and running a family car is about ?8,500. Car taxes here are heavily front-loaded, so that car ownership is expensive compared to other countries, while car usage is comparatively cheap. While you're waiting for the car-share concept to arrive, or if you just don't want to share, you can take some novel steps to cut your driving costs. Depreciation is severe on brand new cars but you can minimise the price you pay and maximise its resale value. It's cheaper to buy at the end of the year, or even the end of the month. Business is slow and sales staff are keen to meet sales targets. To achieve the highest resale value, the advice has always been: choose a reliable but dull model, colour and trim in your car. The pricey extras in a new car rarely add resale value. But if you're buying a new car, this is the last thing you want to hear. So you could ditch that advice and drive a Toyota Prius like Tom Hanks, Leonardo di Caprio and Cameron Diaz. The Prius has two power sources. One is a conventional petrol engine, and the other a 500V electric motor. The petrol engine switches off when stationary, saving fuel, while the energy usually wasted by braking charges the battery. As a result, the Prius does 60mpg. The extra few quid must make all the difference to Cameron and Leonardo. Another option is the Smart car. It does about 60mpg - but only has room for two. Finally, if you commute in Dublin, why not visit www.dublintraffic.ie? This is a forum for ride-sharing, where several people travel in one car and split petrol costs. Many people ride-share on an informal basis already. But there's no saving of time and the only cash saving in ride-sharing is the price of fuel. Conor Faughnan of the AA would prefer to see a permit system where ride-share cars with four occupants can use bus lanes. He supports alternatives to single occupancy car commuting, including ride-sharing, Luas and some Quality Bus Corridors. "We need to move from taxes on car ownership towards a taxation system based on car usage," he concludes. Faughnan reckons that, in an Irish context, ride-sharing has a better chance than car-sharing. Owners of the two-seater Smart car may not have much success. But for the rest of us, if you choose your companions carefully, you might be chauffeur-driven from your door in a Mercedes at least one day a week. 
