cars
{  
    March 20 2009 02:23 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/three-car-collision-recalled-at-local-court-27563487.html }
A three car collision at Ropefield, Ballymote, on December 23rd, 2007 had a sequel at the local court where two of the drivers involved appeared on charges of careless driving arising out of the incident. Catherine Stafford, Kinsellagh, Calry, who was said to have suffered severe injuries in the crash, was convicted and fined €100 with €100 witness expenses after Judge Denis McLoughlin said he could come to no other conclusion from the evidence but that she had been totally responsible for the accident. The charge against the second defendant, Denis Rosney, Carrindine, Balla, Co. Mayo, was withdrawn after the conclusion of the prosecution evidence. Garda Patrick Naughton told the court when he arrived at the scene of the accident he observed three cars damaged. The fire brigade was there and an ambulance arrived shortly afterwards. Two of the vehicles had been travelling from the Ballinacarrow direction towards Tubbercurry, while the other was going in the opposite direction. All three cars were facing towards Tubbercurry. The driver of one of the cars, defendant, Catherine Stafford, and the driver and passenger of another of the cars, Bernie Garrett and Bernice Garrett, were taken by ambulance to Sligo General Hospital. He said it was drizzling rain at the time he arrived and the road surface was wet. He prepared a sketch map of the scene which was handed into court. Mr. Gerry McGovern, solicitor, for Stafford, pointed out that other witnesses in their statements had described the weather completely differently, but Garda Naughton was adamant that when he arrived at the scene at 6 p.m it was drizzling rain. Bernice Garrett said in evidence she was driving her car towards Galway on the day in question. It was dry at the time. Having gone through Ballinacarrow, travelling at about 90 kph, she saw a car approach from the opposite direction on its correct side of the road. However, when this car was a short distance from her, it suddenly veered to her side of the road in front of her. She immediately started to brake as hard as she could but was unable to avoid an impact with the other vehicle, which collided with a wall on her left hand side. She described how she then heard a number of bangs and noises and then felt another impact from the rear as her car was struck from behind. When she got out of her car she realised there were two cars behind her, one of which was the one which had come from the opposite direction. The driver of one of the cars, Denis Rosney, informed her that the other car, driven by Catherine Stafford, had rolled over the roof of her car. When asked by Mr. Gerry McGovern, solicitor for Stafford, whether she considered her speed of 90 kph was too fast considering she was a provisional driver, witness said she felt in control of her vehicle at all times. She was adamant that it was not wet at the time. She was on her side of the road at all times, she insisted, and had collided with the passenger door of the other car as it swerved in front of her. She disagreed that she was the cause of the accident. Bernie Garrett, mother of the previous witness who was a passenger in her daughter's car on the occasion, gave corroborative evidence. In cross-examination, she insisted it was not raining at the time of the accident, although it might have started to rain later as she was lying on a stretcher on the side of the road. She could not be sure which of the cars had collided with the rear of her daughter's car. At this stage, the charge against Rosney was withdrawn, and he then gave evidence, saying he was travelling behind Garret's car, going towards Galway on the occasion. He told of seeing "a black object" approaching Garret's car from the opposite direction. Both he and Garrett jammed on their brakes. He collided into one of the cars. When he got out of the car he saw Stafford's car in front of his. He did not see Garret's car cross to the other side of the road at any stage. Cross-examined by Mr. McGovern, he agreed that he had not seen Stafford's car on its wrong side of the road. Judge McLoughlin disallowed Mr. McGovern's appeal for a direction, which was based on his contention that the prosecution procedure in withdrawing the case against one defendant without calling his client as a witness was unfair. In evidence, Stafford said she was driving very cautiously at about 30/35 miles an hour because of the wet conditions. A car coming towards her was too close to her side of the road and she decided she would have to crash into a ditch on her left hand side in order to avoid it, but she didn't have time to do this as the other car "was on top of her" very quickly. It was a very strong impact and she lost consciousness almost immediately. She was adamant that she had not hit the wall, as alleged by the previous witnesses. She told how she subsequently went back to the scene of the accident, and there were sixteen points at which that wall was knocked, so whatever damage was there had nothing to do with the accident. She did not believe she was responsible for the accident as she had been driving very slowly on her side of the road at all times. Witness was adamant that it was wet at the time of the accident as it had been raining all afternoon. Judge McLoughlin commented that the case stemmed from Stafford not coming to terms with the fact that she was responsible for the accident. He appreciated that she had suffered severe injuries, but he could come to no other conclusion from the evidence but that she was totally responsible. He said he would have no hesitation in convicting her for careless driving. He imposed a fine of €100 and ordered her to pay €100 witness expenses. 
