cars
{ Eddie Lennon 
    October 23 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/waiting-for-the-end-of-vrt-dont-hold-your-breath-26032068.html }
Is buying a new car going to be considerably cheaper with the abolition of Vehicle Registration Tax (VRT)? Maybe, but watch out for a sting in the tail, reports EDDIE LENNON RECENTLY many people planning to buy a car began asking themselves a tantalising question: whether they should wait till Vehicle Registration Tax (VRT) is abolished, as strongly hinted at by EU Taxation Commissioner Frits Bolkestein recently. The European Commission wants to harmonise road tax to remove the huge variations in car prices across the EU. Irish pre-tax prices on cars are among the lowest in Europe. But after VRT in slapped on, prices are among the highest, around 40pc dearer on average. And, because VRT is charged at between 22pc and 30pc of the open market selling price of a car, the more expensive the car, the greater the price contrast with the rest of Europe. The Department of Finance rebuffed the Commission's proposals to move away from registration taxes like VRT and towards usage taxes. According to the Department, "the Minister of Finance has no plans to abolish VRT as it is a significant source of tax revenue which funds necessary public services. In Ireland, VRT generates some ?800m per year. "To recover this amount of money in alternative taxes would require for example, a 36 per litre excise duty increase in the price of petrol, or an increase in the standard of income tax of over 2 percentage points." But the Commission's proposal could merely be a dry run for a European directive, which would oblige all member states to get into line with a new deal for motorists. If the European Commission gets its way, VRT would gradually be abolished, and replaced, probably with an annual road and fuel tax. Double VRT would also be scrapped, allowing drivers to register their car in another EU country as well. Frits Bolkestein has noted drivers pay through the nose when moving a car from one EU country to another. According to the AA's Conor Faughnan, VRT is not only anti-motorist, it's also anti-competition and anti-European. "Everybody has hated VRT since its inception," he says. "We hate it for the same reason we hate pickpockets. When the single European market came into effect, we had to abolish vehicle excise duty on cars coming into Ireland from the EU. "The government (under Albert Reynolds) claimed excise duty generated so much money that we simply couldn't do without it." It was agreed to rename the tax to evade the Single European Act. And voila VRT, Ireland's most expensive ID card, was born. If the same chain of events were pursued by a corrupt politician to avoid tax, he would be lynched. But the Government got away with it. In theory, VRT is a tax not on the import or purchase of the car, but on its registration. So the embossed plate screwed on to the back and front of your car carries a tax bill of several thousand euro. "Since then," says Faughnan, "the fiscal environment has changed utterly. We have had the Tiger boom and an Exchequer bursting at the seams with revenue. We no longer have the excuse of evading our Single European Act responsibilities. "VRT was always a con trick a tax avoidance by the Government that stole back from the Irish people the benefits we voted for when we passed the Single European Act." The AA believes VRT should, like unroadworthy cars, be scrapped. Conor Faughnan reckons VRT is quickly running out of gas, and that the recent European Commission proposal augurs well for its eventual abolition. However, he feels this will be "a matter of years, not months. The EU's proposal was pretty unambiguous; move away from registration taxes. "It was a clear shot across the bows of the Irish and Danish governments, the two worst offenders in this regard. VRT is a trade barrier, and everybody knows it. The Commission wants harmonisation of the price of cars across Europe." The European Court of Justice has ruled against a Finnish version of VRT. While not directly applicable to Ireland our VRT is, legally at least, legitimate the judgement is symptomatic of the EU's mood in relation to oppressively anti-consumer taxes and trade barriers that appear contrary to the competitive spirit of the Single European Act. What about the ?800m loss bemoaned by the Department of Finance? Conor Faughnan believes the shortfall will be made up by increased fuel taxes. Conspiracy theorists maintain the Government spin for dearer petrol prices, as an eventual substitute for VRT, is already well under way. A leaked report some months ago from chartered accountants KPMG called for a 5 per litre levy on petrol to pay for road-building. And some recent media reports claimed Irish motorists enjoy some of the cheapest petrol prices in Europe In return for market privileges given to car manufacturers, the EU is about to open up markets more than ever before, clearing the way for international car dealerships to set up shop here. The AA believe such developments will even out pre-tax car prices across Europe. Allied to the arrival of the euro, motorists will be encouraged to shop around Europe for a new set of wheels, even surfing the internet for a better deal. Furthermore, the expected loosening of international advertising restrictions will, for example, allow a BMW dealer in Germany to aggressively publicise its cheaper prices in Ireland. Once VRT is abolished, you will be able to buy a Fiat in Italy, or a Renault in France. Director of Consumer Affairs, Carmel Foley, says that if VRT was abolished, car manufacturers would charge more for their cars given that Irish pre-tax prices for cars are among the lowest in the EU. Conor Faughnan agrees this is possible, even if it plays into the hands of the motor industry which, he says, has a privileged position and a strongly vested interest. "European car manufacturers look at a very large market, and we're about the size of Birmingham. It's ?13,500 for a Ford focus in Holyhead, and ?11,500 here before VAT and VRT. The reason is that car manufacturers decide what each market will bear." So, if British motorists started coming to a VRT-free Ireland in droves to buy cars more cheaply, it's very likely motor manufacturers would increase the price of cars here in short, to hell with the Irish motorist. However, we would equally be free to import cars in a market of 300m people. Dermott Jewell, chief executive of the Consumers Association of Ireland, says VRT is "a punitive tax. "If the Government's going to charge VRT in the first place, then you later sell the car, are you not entitled to some sort of tax rebate?" Unlike VAT or any other type of tax, you can't claim a rebate on VRT. "So if you decide to sell your car, you sell it at a value based on a price that includes VRT. So some other poor individual pays for it again! It's a win-win situation for the Government. VRT is one of the most anti-consumer taxes on the planet." He says there should either be a full rebate for anybody who sells a car, or whatever the equivalent percentage is of the value of the car when you sell it. However, the Department of Finance told the Irish Independent: "There are no plans to give tax relief or rebate of VRT to people who buy a new car and later sell it." Like the AA, the Consumers Association reckon VRT is here to stay, at least for the near future. 
