cars
{ Aidan Timmons and Eddie Cunningham 
    September 30 2014 06:10 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/the-pros-and-cons-of-buying-a-cut-price-new-rental-car-at-this-time-of-the-year-30627737.html }
Aidan Timmons and Motoring Editor Eddie Cunningham team up to help readers make the right choice with their next car. Aidan visits dealers all over the country to produce a monthly guidebook on the values of used cars. He is co-editor of Motor Trade Publishers, who supply a car-valuing service to the motor trade, insurance companies and finance houses. Eddie is author of former best-seller 'Clever Car Buying'. Eddie: Around this time every year a large volume of rentals end up on dealers' forecourts. They're known as hire-drives, ex-rentals or ex-fleet vehicles and the time is ripe for customers to capitalise on nearly-new cars at reduced prices. As with most things, there are pros and cons. We've had enquiries which were of sufficient volume to prompt us to devote this page to the issue this week. Aidan, will shed some light on the positives and I'll tackle the things to watch out for. Aidan: Sounds good. Here's my lot. Volume and Choice: Many manufacturers engage in leasing their products to rental companies so the scope of choice is usually pretty extensive. You can certainly expect the major players to be well represented. This choice isn't simply limited to makes and models either. Nobody wants a situation where every car is identical so all sorts of colour combinations, fuel types and specification levels are included in the mix, which increases your chances of being able to find a car that suits your taste. While entry level models are generally most popular you should expect a healthy blend of options to be available and it is worth shopping around for the right car. Even automatic transmissions are required by rental companies for some tourists that can't drive a "stick shift". They are rare, though. Now that we have a split registration system you can even find choice here too. The typical rental period is circa six months so most cars this year will have 141 registration plates. Three month rentals that were put to work in July will return to the market with 142 registration plates and it is prudent to assume that the latter will generally have less mileage than the 141s. Values: Hire-drive vehicles are used cars and so their values necessarily have to reflect this. Values will be lower than the new price and will generally slot in somewhere between the prices of a nearly-new demonstration model and a one-year-old vehicle. And the good news is that there is some choice here too. 141s that have higher mileage will usually be priced more keenly than low mileage 142 plates. However, don't be immediately put off by cars that look as though they have excessive mileage. If your annual mileage is typically very low, it might be worth considering offsetting the higher odometer reading against the savings made over buying a lower mileage model. Do the maths on what the car's clock will read when it comes time to trade it back in after a few years as, by that time, if the mileage stacks up dealers don't tend to discriminate against ex-rental cars. And because you are buying a used car (despite it still being a present year model), you don't endure all of the first year's deprecation. Hire-drives represent a great compromise in this respect. Timing: As we approach the end of the year, dealers will be keen to shift their hire-drive stock and make way for new cars arriving in January. This plays into your favour regardless of whether you are buying straight or trading in. There are always some excellent deals to be thrashed out for cash buyers no matter the time of year but especially so at it's tail end. However, the used car market is still undersupplied with saleable stock as a result of some pretty anaemic new car performances over the past few years. If you've got a trade-in that has been well minded and is a popular model, dealers will want to speak with you - particularly if they still have lots of hire drives left to sell. Eddie: Aidan is spot-on with everything he has said and he makes a strong case. It is not my job to knock hire-drives. It is my job to point out things you should additionally take into account before parting with your money. Let's start with the obvious. You are buying a secondhand car. It has been 'owned' by someone else. And when you come to trade it in within three or four years that will be reflected in its value. So while you might be buying for a smaller amount now, you may be selling for a correspondingly reduced sum down the road. These cars tend to be well minded, I agree. But they can get abuse too from people who don't normally drive with a manual gearbox. They can damage the box but even more so can unduly wear the clutch. Costly work if you need it. Okay, it might be under warranty but up to six months of that may have expired by the time you buy. And if the warranty time has passed when the clutch or gearbox start giving trouble, the few euro you saved would look less attractive. In fairness dealers do a great job checking on these areas. It is in their interests that you are not back within six months foisting costly repairs under warranty on them. But it is worth keeping in mind. The area that I find trickiest is the price. Some years, and with some models, one of these hire-drives might look really good value. But are they? If you go into a garage to buy an ordinary new car and you are buying for cash you will get a substantial reduction in the price. Even if you are working off a finance deal and have a trade-in you will get a really good deal (and a fair bit off the list price) at this time of year especially. So the gap between the hire-drive and a brand new car might not be as gaping as might first appear. Not this year, but in other years, I've done my calculations and really there wasn't any more than a couple of grand of a difference in some cases. I'm taking a hard line in all this because I drew the short straw this week in occupying the No side. But it is a good exercise because it makes no bones about the other side of the deal. One other thing. The rental car may, in reality, not be as well equipped as a brand new one as car makers bring in updated and upgraded versions for the 142 period. So if yours is a 141 you could be missing out on a few additional bits of bling. And when you come to trade-in, dealers won't be slow in pointing that out. The other big obvious element, of course, is that it will be a one-year-old car in a few months. I'm not so sure that is as big a negative as it was before dual registration but you simply have to factor it into your price calculations. Conclusions: It is, as always, quite dependent on the car and the dealer and your own circumstances but I feel the following can be said with some certainty. Yes, there can be some really good deals out there. Yes, you can end up with a fine, well-equipped model for a lot less than you might pay if buying new. Cars are well minded, and dealers are anxious to sell at this time of the year. And because there is a bit of a bounce in the economy and because one or two distributors in particular used hire-drives to boost registrations and, consequently, market share, there are quite a few of them out there. All of which makes it more of a buyers' market than it has been for some time, I think. So while I have taken the No side for the purposes of this advice piece I can see the sector as being one well worth exploring for those prepared to bargain hard with as many facts as possible at their disposal. I hope we have come up with a few for you. Indo Motoring 
