cars
{  
    June 14 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/dangerous-driving-case-witnesses-describe-car-travelling-at-high-speed-27550173.html }
WITNESSES to the accident recalled how they had observed the accuseds car travelling at high speed on its incorrect side of the road prior to impact. A number of statements were read to the court by Mr. Eanna Molloy, B.L., and in the first of these, Sheila McCarthy said she had been driving from Grange towards Bundoran at about 4.00pm on the day of the accident. She was accompanied by Brid Flynn from Abbeyfeale, Co. Limerick. About a mile outside Grange, they had been travelling at about 40 miles per hour as there were two cars in front, one of which was travelling slowly. “I was thinking of overtaking as was the car in front of me, due to the first car being slow, but on looking ahead an on-coming car was travelling towards us on our side of the road. The first car in our line had gone past and the second car pulled into the left to a gravel area in front of some houses and I followed.  Reaction “The reason I pulled in and stopped was because the lady in front had pulled in. Also it was my reaction to someone travelling at high speed on the road at the wrong side and I saw the potential for an accident,” Ms. McCarthy’s statement said. She had wondered why the other driver was travelling on the wrong side at such speed. The car appeared to be a darkish green, medium to big sized car. “I looked in my mirror as I was pulling in and I saw two cars crashed behind me,” she said. She had not gone back to the scene, but her friend Brid had jumped over a wall and got a man to ring 999. The ambulance had arrived very quickly. She could not see where the green car had gone.”There was no other car on his side of the road. He had no reason to be on our side, as he wasn’t overtaking and there wasn’t anything on the road, “ she said.  Lost control In her statement, Brid Flynn said she had travelled in Sheila McCarthy’s car for a short time and as they were on the Donegal side of Grange, she could see a car in front of their vehicle. “As we approached a left hand bend, a car came from the opposite direction on its incorrect side of the roadway. It appeared to me that the driver of this vehicle had lost control of the car. The car was travelling at a high speed,” the statement added. The lady driver in the car in front immediately pulled over to her left hand side and the driver of the vehicle she was in did likewise. “I looked out the back window of the car and saw that the car which was travelling behind us had been hit. There was steam coming from the radiator of this car,” Ms. Flynn’s statement recalled. This car had then been struck by another car which was travelling behind it. She got out and went to a nearby house and called the Gardai and the ambulance. In another statement, James McManus said he resided in Manchester with his wife Agnus. They came home to Ireland every year on holidays and last year they had decided to go on holidays to Donegal with his brother Edward and his wife Vera and his cousin Patrick Cox and his friend, Kathleen Cullen.  Passenger He told how on Saturday, August 5th, 2000, he had travelled with his wife Agnus and Edward McManus and his wife Vera in his brother’s car from Rathmaylan,Enfield, Co. Meath. They left home at about 10.45am and Edward was driving his blue Ford Fiesta car. Jim McManus was a front seat passenger and his wife was directly behind him, while Vera was sitting behind Edward. The statement told how the group had stopped at St. Bridgid’s Well in Mullingar on their way to Sligo, where they also stopped for a meal. They left Sligo at about 3.00pm and stopped in Drumcliffe to see Yeats Grave and the Church. They left Drumcliffe at about 4.00pm. At all times Edward and his brother wore their seat belts and Edward would have driven the car at speeds between 40 and 50 miles per hour. “After driving through Grange village, we travelled a short distance. I saw a car coming from the Donegal direction. This car travelled from its correct side of the road and it came straight across the road to our side. “Edward pulled his car onto the hard shoulder and I said “we can’t miss this.” The car that came across the road was travelling very fast and it hit the right front of Edward’s car,” the statement continued.  ‘Severe’ Jim McManus described the impact as “very severe” and said he felt he was knocked out for a short time. Later that night, he heard his brother Edward and his wife Vera had died. Deceased’s brother said Edward McManus could not have done anything to have prevented the accident. In her statement, Agnus McManus said that a short distance the Bundoran side of Grange, their car “got a tremendous bang.” She had not seen the car that hit them. Prior to the accident, she was looking out the window to her left and after the crash she called out to Vera McManus, but got no reply. Patrick Cox’s statement said he had decided to go to Donegal for a week with his friends, Edward and Vera McManus and Jim and Angus McManus and Kathleen Cullen, from Longwood Road, Trim. He had been driving his red Ford Fiesta, while Edward McManus was driving his blue Ford Fiesta. He recalled how they stopped in Mullingar and travelled to Sligo, where they had a meal. They then travelled to Drumcliffe graveyard and left there about 4.00pm. Edward McManus was driving in front of him and a short distance the Donegal side of Grange he saw a car, which was coming from the Donegal direction.  ‘Very fast’ “This car came from its correct side of the road to its incorrect side. To me, it was going very fast. Edward McManus, who was in front of me, pulled into the hard shoulder, as I did also. “The car kept coming and hit Edward’s car on the driver’s side and hit my car and it kept going down the road in the direction of Sligo. It went so far that I could not see it,” Mr. Cox’s statement said. In her statement, Kathleen Cullen said she had been a passenger in a car driven by Patrick Cox. After travelling a short distance from Grange village she noticed a car coming from the Donegal direction. This car came from its correct side of the road over to their side. Edward McManus pulled into the hard shoulder, as did Patrick Cox. “The car kept coming and hit Edward’s car, which spun around. The car then hit Patrick’s car and kept on going down the road in the direction of Grange. I could not believe what had happened,” she said. The statement added that there was nothing Edward McManus or Patrick Cox could have done to avoid the accident. 
