cars
{  
    June 14 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/family-of-ardee-man-killed-in-crash-deny-he-was-driving-car-27120018.html }
THE family of a young Ardee man killed when a car crashed into a bog, disputed claims that he had been driving when the car went out of control. At an inquest into the death of 21-year old Patrick Murphy, of 38 Ferdia Park, Ardee, his mother Mary broke down as she described learning of her son’s death. She had passed the scene of the accident on her way home from work and had seen a silver Fiesta car on its side in a field. About half an hour later, her daughter called to the house and told her that Patrick had been killed. About seven or eight weeks later, she plucked up the courage to go to the yard to where the car had been removed. She took measurements which, she believed, proved that her son, who was 6ft 3”, could not have been driving. She said there was space of only 23” from the driver’s seat to the floor. Allowing her to give evidence, Coroner Mr. Ronan Maguire BL pointed out that it was not for him or the jury to come to any conclusion as to who was driving. He felt that, in fairness, the family should be allowed to put their view on public record. Earlier, Garda Peter Fahey, Ardee, said he went to Corbilis, Readypenny, on the Ardee/Dundalk Road on November 7 last. He saw Patrick Murphy lying on the grass margin on the left side of the road. Members of Ardee Fire Brigade stated that they had removed Mr. Murphy from under a car in an adjoining field. The car was 50 yards out in the field in about 9 inches of water. Grd. Fahey said he could see four skid marks on the road, as though the car had been travelling sideways when it skidded into the field. Mr. Paul Martin, a member of Ardee Fire Brigade, said he was returning from duty in Dundalk at 12.20am on November 7th. He was driving his own car and the fire brigade was travelling behind. When he came to Corbilis, he saw a car with its lights on, on his side of the road. He slowed down and then he saw the car in the field. He got out and asked if everything was OK and if anyone had checked the car. He went and checked the car, using a torch, and saw that it was empty. It was in about 12 inches of water, he said. Other members of the Fire Brigade had arrived by this time and searching further, they found a youth caught under the right rearside window of the car. Seamus Curtis lifted the car and the youth was pulled out and attempts made to revive him. The youth had been trapped under the window behind the driver’s door. His legs were not in the car, but under the car, Mr. Martin said. The other car left the scene without anyone saying anything, he told the Inquest. Mr. Seamus Curtis said he was travelling with the fire brigade from Dundalk when he saw a car parked on the road with hazard lights on. They stopped and saw a car in the field. A youth came up the bank and they asked him if everybody was alright. The youth replied that someone was missing. Mr. Curtis went to the car, which was in 9 inches of water. He saw a youth caught in the driver’s window, his head and body out of the window and his legs caught by the car. He was face down in the water and there was no sign of life. Mr. Emmet Hubble said in his deposition that he had got a lift to the Readypenny Inn after he had finished work. Patrick Murphy was there. When the time came to leave, he said he was getting a taxi. Then a man whom he called Ollie, from Tyrone, said that he would give him a lift to Ardee. Paddy said he would drive. Paddy seemed OK, Mr. Hubble said in his deposition. When he asked him how much he had had to drink, Paddy said he’d had one pint. Paddy drove and they listened to the radio. He didn’t see any fault with Paddy’s driving as they passed Cluskey’s pub, but he then started to go way faster than 65mph. Mr. Hubble asked him to slow down but he didn’t listen. As they were passing the cottages, the car went out of control and tumbled into the field. He didn’t know how long they were there. He asked where Paddy was and Ollie said to get out as the car was going to go on fire. He went to a house to get a light and as there was no phone, went to another house to phone for the ambulance. His hand was injured in the accident and he went to hospital in a car. As far as he knew, the man from Tyrone, whom he called Ollie, owned the car. Gda Fahey said he had spoken to Oliver Caldwell, from Tyrone, at the hospital. He admitted being the owner of the car, which he had bought three weeks previously. Mr. Caldwell said he was a front seat passenger when the accident happened, the Garda said. The pathologist’s report stated that the deceased had died from drowning following a road traffic accident. Toxicology reports showed the victim had a blood alcohol reading of 174mg per cent and a urine alcohol reading of 212 mg per cent, which was twice the legal limit for driving. Mr. Maguire offered his sympathy to Mr. Murphy’s family, noting that he was a young man who had his entire life in front of him. 
