cars
{  
    May 02 2018 09:52 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/we-have-two-cars-two-jobs-and-two-young-children-we-just-need-one-small-electric-car-36866311.html }
Aidan Timmons and Motoring Editor Eddie Cunningham team up to help readers make the right choice with their next car. Aidan visits dealers all over the country to produce a monthly guidebook on the values of used cars. He is co-editor of Motor Trade Publishers, who supply a car-valuing service to the motor trade, insurance companies and finance houses. Eddie is author of former best-seller 'Clever Car Buying' We have two cars, two jobs and two young children. My husband has a 161 diesel Renault Kadjar with 30,000kms (value maybe €17K). I have a 2009 Hyundai i10 (petrol/ auto) with 65,000kms (value maybe €1k?). I work locally and used to drive but have been cycling now for a year as a commute and I intend to continue that. My husband was doing a two hour-plus daily commute on the M50 but he has changed jobs and he now has a 10-minute commute on foot. Our kids are in school/pre-school en route during his 10 minute walk, so this means that both our cars are pretty much parked at home Monday-Friday. We probably only need one car at the most. We have signed up to Go Car for longer trips/bigger cars if necessary a couple of times a year. We are thinking of selling the Kadjar back to the dealer we bought it from and selling the Hyundai. We would like to replace them both with one electric car. However, the problem we have is where we live. We couldn't charge an electric car out front as we park on a public road with a resident's permit. The yard has power for a charger and space to park but we could only get a tiny car in. What's are your predictions for the small/ city EV models in the next few years? Our budget is probably max €15k. Aidan/Eddie: Forgive us for oversimplifying this but isn't your automatic i10 the perfect car for you? You don't routinely use a car during the week and when you need something bigger, you will use a car-sharing service. There are a few small EVs on the horizon but that is where they still currently reside; away in the distance. SEAT will likely launch an electric Mii and a smattering of others will do likewise but we don't see what you will gain from them. If you really have an itch to change for something newer, buy a regular SEAT Mii (or Skoda Citigo or VW up!) and sell your other cars. Help us help you WE love getting your enquiries and try to reply to as many as possible here or via email. The ones dealt with here often represent a cross section of individual questions. You can help us help you with our free, independent, advice by including the following in your queries: * Budget (including trade-in). * Annual mileage (in kms). * Size of car required (number of seats). * Present car (make, model, year and mileage) if relevant. ecunningham@independent.ie Irish Independent 
