cars
{  
    July 14 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/latest-news/holiday-car-hire-drive-a-bargain-26550785.html }
SUMMER holidays are here and for the next two months many will be heading off. With more and more people putting their own holiday packages together, there are a few insurance products you may wish to consider that will save you time and money. Many of us who book flights on Aer Lingus, Ryanair, British Midland or Aer Arann will be familiar with the car hire offers at knock-down prices. Often the price you are quoted does not include car hire excess cover, which can cost you an arm and a leg when you purchase it at the car hire counter. A good money-saving tip is to purchase your own policy before you leave. If you rent a car a few times a year, then an annual policy will save you even more money.  Car Hire Excess Cover If you are hiring a car on holidays (or for work) then you should consider taking out a car hire excess cover policy before you leave home. Most car hire arrangements generally cover collision damage waiver (CDW) and theft. However, should you damage the rental car, or should the car be stolen, the driver is asked to pay the first portion of the repair or replacement costs. This is known as the excess. In most agreements the insured is still liable for the first portion of the repair or replacement costs otherwise known as the excess, which can be up to €2,000. The policy insures you, the policy holder, not the rental vehicle. Excess is a voluntary insurance. You can save significant time and money purchasing a car hire excess policy before collecting your vehicle at the car hire desk. Decline the car rental company's excess cover at the counter when you collect the car. If the car is damaged or stolen, the car rental company will charge your credit card for the excess amount and you can then claim for reimbursement on your policy. The policy covers the excess on a car hire policy up to a maximum of €3,000 of damage, including damage to windows and tyres, fire, vandalism, theft or loss of use of the rental vehicle. You can buy a policy to cover a one-off trip or you can buy an annual policy, which covers any number of trips. Typical costs for a one-off policy covering Europe are about €2.99 a day. The same policy covering worldwide and USA costs €4.99 a day. If you buy cover over the counter, typical costs are €15 to €20 a day. An annual policy offers possibly the best value because it only costs €59 for a European policy and €90 for a worldwide policy, which includes the USA. You have to be over 21 and under 75 with a full driving licence. There are some exclusions -- for example motor homes, trucks, commercial vehicles, motorcycles and off-road vehicles (other than SUV/Jeeps) are not covered. Cars shouldn't be valued at over €55,000. Make sure you buy the policy before you leave, then feel free to hire from Hertz, Sixt, Avis, Budget, Sky Cars, Argus, Holiday Autos, Europa Car, Alamo, etc, knowing you don't have to take their excess cover.  Motor Breakdown Cover Travelling abroad with your car for the summer holidays? Breakdown cover is desirable for several reasons, with the most common being flat batteries, puncture repairs and engine trouble, with most breakdowns being resolved at the roadside. Emergency repair success rates are now over 80pc, which means the majority of drivers who call for roadside assistance are back on their journey trouble-free. Cover is provided 24 hours a day and seven days a week. An annual policy will cover you for European travel for a trip of up to 31 days to Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Malta, and the United Kingdom. If your vehicle is immobilised as a result of a breakdown, the insurer will arrange for a vehicle rescue operator to spend up to an hour to repair it. If it cannot be repaired there, they will arrange to have the car taken to a garage to be repaired. They include locating and delivery of replacement parts (but the cost of parts is not covered), alternative travel arrangements, emergency car hire or public transport costs to allow you to continue your trip or return home, emergency accommodation, emergency driver and vehicle recovery to Ireland. Annual policy costs start at €49 up to €88. The AA covers the person so the person is covered driving any car. The others cover the car. Providers of this type of cover are Blue Insurances, AXA, The AA, Hibernian, LABrokers.ie.  John Geraghty is an authorised adviser who runs online brokerage LABrokers.ie. 
