cars
{ Alan O'Keeffe 
    March 21 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/motorists-nightmare-sparked-marathon-legal-saga-26094048.html }
A CAR theft on a February night in a Dublin suburb sparked a chain of events which led to a 17-year legal saga. A gang of young car thieves broke into a Datsun Stanza car parked outside a house on the Cremore estate in Templeogue. It was the home of Eamon Gavin, a family man in his early 40s, who was a successful accounts manager at a major multinational computer company. It was 1984, a year in which 16,300 unauthorised takings of vehicles would be reported. It seemed the city was in the grip of a joyriding epidemic. Mr Gavin was in his pyjamas when he heard a car engine starting. He rushed to the window and saw the youths inside his car. He ran out the front door and dived onto the bonnet. He lay across the windscreen, hoping to block the view of the car thieves. The person driving the car reversed, braked and drove forward violently in a effort to dislodge him. Mr Gavin clung on determinedly as the car accelerated for 150 yards. The car stopped. He then stood in front of his car, blocking their path. The car drove forward, he fell backwards, his legs underneath the car as it stopped. Another car stopped in the path of the stolen car. Mr Gavin then jumped back onto the bonnet of his car. It accelerated away at high speed. He clung to the bonnet as the car was driven at speeds of around 60mph for several miles around the streets of the city. As he desperately hung on to the speeding car, a youth inside the car leaned out the window and hit him on the head with a plastic container to make him release his grip. As the car drove around, a youth hit him across the head with a golfing umbrella which the gang had found in his car. With one hand, he yanked the umbrella from the youth's hand. Then one of the young men leaned out with a heavy metal container which held petrol. He threatened Mr Gavin that, if he did not get off the bonnet when the car slowed down, they would kill him and burn him. He finally agreed to get off. The car slowed to a crawl and he rolled off the bonnet onto the road. The youths drove off in the car. But that was not the end - it was was just the beginning of a long legal saga. Gardai later suggested that Mr Gavin turn up outside Rathfarnham District Court the following week to see if he could identify the youths from among groups of defendants. He picked out two teenagers, Joseph Meleady and Joseph Grogan, both of whom had a number of previous convictions. The pair were convicted in May 1985 of inflicting actual bodily harm on Mr Gavin and causing malicious damage to his car. They were sentenced to five years' imprisonment. As soon as the youths were convicted, supporters began a campaign to clear their names, claiming Mr Gavin wrongly identified them. The campaign was taken up by lawyers, politicians, and parts of the media. Grogan served his five-year sentence but Meleady escaped from St Patrick's Institution after a year. He was arrested in Britain and sent back to serve his sentence. But three weeks before he was due to finish his term in October 1990, he accepted an offer from Justice Minister Ray Burke of temporary release without prejudice to his case. Mr Gavin has always maintained that his identification evidence was true and had stood the test of three jury trials. A retrial was ordered in the case after another Tallaght youth claimed he had been in the car but that Meleady and Grogan were not. At the second trial, no evidence was called on behalf of the defence and the two were convicted for a second time, mainly on eyewitness evidence. Controversy erupted again when RTE's Wednesday Report and Today Tonight programmes and journalist Michael Heney showed that fingerprint evidence from a third accused man Brendan Walsh - which could have contradicted Mr Gavin's evidence - did not emerge in the trial. Walsh had admitted in court he was in the stolen car and was sentenced to two years' imprisonment. Walsh claimed Meleady and Grogan were not in the car and that he was a front seat passenger while Mr Gavin's evidence had placed Meleady and Grogan in the front. The programme makers asserted his claim was substantiated by fingerprint evidence. Mr Gavin accused the programmes of being "one-sided". In 1993, the Cabinet decided there were no grounds to justify advising President Robinson granting a pardon to the two men. But Attorney General Harry Whelehan decided there were aspects of the case which could be brought to the Court of Appeal under new legislation. The convictions were quashed in 1995 on evidence showing a fingerprint of Brendan Walsh was found on the front passenger door of the vehicle, which backed up his claim in the original trial that he was the front seat passenger. He claimed two other men were also in the car, neither of whom was Mr Grogan or Mr Meleady. The latest legal move, the application for a declaration that there was a miscarriage of justice, centred on what became known as the "Walker Memorandum." It was made on May 18, 1984 - before Mr Grogan and Mr Meleady were returned to trial - by a State solicitor, Richard Walker, and centred on the victim allegedly identifying Mr Grogan and Mr Meleady at Rathfarnham courthouse from Garda photographs prior to physical identification. 
