cars
{  
    November 07 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/serving-westmeath-25921123.html }
ON THE Old Dublin Road you will he   Westmeath Motor Group     - now 35 years in Mullingar. They are Fiat, Saab, Alfa Romeo and Honda main dealers. ON THE Old Dublin Road you will he 
Westmeath Motor Group - now 35 years in Mullingar. They are Fiat, Saab, Alfa Romeo and Honda main dealers. Noel McIntyre, Managing Director says, "We are one of the first to invest in line with the new block exemptions - and we have so far invested over ?2 million". The result is a 20,000 sq foot showroom with another 20,000 sq feet of workshops manned by a workforce of 32 - making it one of largest employers in the Midlands motor trade. Opening hours: Mon-Fri 9-6pm Sat 10-3pm Tel: 044 - 48806 or visit their impressive website: 
www.motors.ie * On the old Galway Road, about a mile from the town centre, is 
O'Meara's (Baylough) Ltd. Established for four family generations, it has an excellent reputation for service and quality, operating the Opel franchise. John O'Meara, the dealer principal, comments: "at this time of year there are great deals in our second hand cars - especially 03 models. The Corsa, Astra and Vectra are all big sellers." O'Meara's also have a Hertz desk located on the premises and a busy 30-car plus fleet. The service workshop is open Tues-Sat 9-6pm while the showrooms are open during the same hours Mon-Sat Tel: 0902 - 92325 * The impressive premises you can see as you come into Mullingar on the Tullamore Road is 
Patrick O'Brien Ltd. This has been a family run business for the last 30 years and operates the Renault main dealership. Ciaran O'Brien, proprietor, comments on the popularity of Renault and its safety record: "Renault is the only marque to currently have five models earning the Euro NCAP 5 star safety award - the Laguna, Espace, Vel Satis, Scenic, and the Megane range". Safety is clearly a big thing with his customers. O'Brien's also have the main specialised van centre that caters for the entire Midlands - selling the new Master range, as well as the Trafic and Kangoo - as well as contract hire, spare parts and service. They are also offering excellent trade-in deals on all makes and models of cars and vans for the new year. Opening hours: 9-6pm Mon-Fri, 10-2pm Sat or by appointment Tel: 044 - 40825 * 
Griffith's Motor Group is the main Ford dealer in Mullingar serving the population for over 40 years. Donie Meehan, the manager, enjoys entertaining customers from around the Midlands: "We always have good value deals - both on family and commercial cars - and as Ford cars are the biggest selling car marquee in Ireland - we are kept busy all year round!" Apart from new and quality used cars, Griffith's offers servicing for all Ford family and commercial vehicles and have their own body repair shop. But with the New Year approaching: "there is a big push for people ordering the new 04 models", which you can yourself do with Griffith Motors now. Opening Hours: 9-6pm Mon- Sat Tel: 044 - 48403 * On the Dublin Road near Athlone, about half a mile from the N6 roundabout is 
Michael Moore Car Sales . Established in 1981 in Athlone, they moved to their new 'state of the art' premises in Nov 2001 - where they sell the prestigious Mercedes Benz, VW and Audi marques. The new E and M class Mercedes are proving very popular - with customers impressed by the new styling. Diesel versions are particularly popular - with the highly sophisticated diesel engine making it barely distinguishable from the petrol version. Michael Moore Car Sales also have an extensive range of second hand quality cars. There is a standard 12-month warranty on most - or the existing manufactures warranty - whichever is the longest. There is already a healthy waiting list for the 04 models in the E range which is expected to challenge the new BMW 5 series - so get your order in early! Opening Hours: 9-6pm Monday - Fri 9.30-4.30pm Sat Tel: 0902 - 74620 * 
Autoplaza has created a whole new concept in car buying in the Midlands. They are situated in Monksland Business Park, in Athlone, directly across from Elan. Donal Faherty, the manager, explains the concept of Autoplaza: "it is all about buying a quality used car in an indoor setting. We give a 1-year warranty on all our cars - or the remainder of the manufacturer's warranty. The cars are in first class condition - ready to drive away!" Autoplaza also organises finance and have an impressive range of used cars - from 03 models right back to classic 70's models - there are never less than 70 cars in stack. Another advantage in buying from Autoplaza is that AA membership comes with every car - and all cars are AA approved. Autoplaza is open 9.30-7pm Mon- Fri, 9-6pm Sat, 2-6pm Sun. Tel: 0902 - 44100 * On the Dublin Road, one mile from the town centre is 
Atlas Cars - for 15 years main Nissan dealers. As well as selling all the new Nissan models, Atlas also sell Gold Standard quality used cars. This includes a 12-month warranty, 12-month RAC membership and a 21-day exchange plan. "We also offer Nissan finance at competitive rates," says Gerry Farrell, managing director. "Our priority at the moment is clearing our old stock to make room for the exciting range of 04 Nissan cars. "The biggest sellers are the Primera, Almera and Micra; "we give top value and a 3 year warranty on all new Nissans". There is also a service area and spare parts department. Opening hours Mon-Fri 9-6pm Sat 10-2pm Tel: 044 - 41404 * Just round the corner from the Mullingar Dog Track Stadium, in the Mullingar Business Park, is 
Sleator Opel . Recently voted No1 Garage in Mullingar by the 
Irish Auto Trade magazine, Sleator Motors has been 27 years in operation and is a Main Opel dealer. Frank Hughes tells of Sleator's impressive Christmas offer: "If you buy a new or used car before Christmas you don't have to pay till February 28 of next year". In the meantime you can pick a Christmas present from a long list of items including DVD players, mobile phones and kids bikes, "at this time of the year we know that money is scarce for our customers - so with this deal you can still get your car in time for Christmas and pay in February". Sleator's is open Mon-Wed-Fri 9-6pm Tues-Thurs 9-7pm & Sat 10-3pm Tel: 044 - 40350 Website: www.sleatoropel.com or E-mal: 
info@sleatoropel.com Take the Dublin Road leading out of Mullingar, and you'll find 
Mullingar Daewoo - the first garage on the right coming off the N4. Currently they are planning for new showrooms due to open in December 2004. Tommy Macken, General manager, talks about the popularity of the Daewoo marquee, "Daewoo are great for value and reliability. At the moment we are doing very good deals on 00 cars." For example, a Daewoo Lanos 1.4cc, four door salon, with power steering, twin airbags, ABS brakes & central locking is on offer at only ?6,500! There is also a servicing area and opening times are: Mon-Fri 9-6pm Sat 10-1pm Tel: 044 - 48973 * On the Old Dublin Road you will find 
Hamills of Mullingar serving the motoring public of Mullingar and beyond since 1965. They are MG Rover main dealers and John Hamill, joint managing director, speaks of the famous MG Rover brands, "Together they are amongst the most famous motoring names in the world and offer the customer reliability, safety and looks as well as luxurious comfort!" The Rover 75 has just been voted the best second-hand buy of the year by a panel of international journalists and you can get fabulous value on both new and second hand models of this prestigious marquee. Hamills have the Bridgestone Firestone First Stop tyre centre, as well as car and van rental, 24-hour recovery, body shop and crash repairs. Hamills also offer a unique world-wide car hire service (check this one out!) So if you want to buy a car with flair and refinement - and turn a few heads - visit during opening times: 9-6pm Mon - Sat. Tel: 044 - 44500 or visit their website; www.hamills.com * Situated on the main Galway Road is 
Michael Kenny Seat - a main Seat Dealer. Micheal Kenny, managing director, talks about why the Seat brand is so popular with Irish motorists; "They are great value for money and very stylish cars". Michael Kenny also has a forecourt petrol station, which is open between 7.30-10pm. There is also a service and repair area. Showroom opening hours 8.30-6.30pm Mon-Sat. Tel: 0902 - 37208 
