cars
{  
    April 18 2008 12:37 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/murder-accused-said-he-wanted-to-get-a-shotgun-27838951.html }
The trial of a Dublin man accused of killing Arklow native 21-year-old Daniel McDonald continues at the Central Criminal Court before Justice Kevin O'Higgins and a jury of six men and six women.Numerous Arklow residents who were present on the night of February 2 , 2007 have given evidence relating to the night when Mr. McDonald was killed when struck by a car. The trial of a Dublin man accused of killing Arklow native 21-year-old Daniel McDonald continues at the Central Criminal Court before Justice Kevin O'Higgins and a jury of six men and six women. Numerous Arklow residents who were present on the night of February 2 , 2007 have given evidence relating to the night when Mr. McDonald was killed when struck by a car. 22-year-old Anthony O'Reilly with an address at Cleggan Park, Ballyfermot, Dublin has pleaded not guilty to murdering Mr McDonald, dangerous driving causing the death of Mr McDonald and intentionally or recklessly grabbing the steering wheel of Jenny Tobin's car causing it to swerve in the direction of the deceased. The court heard last week that both men had been kicked out of Rascals nightclub following a row but the argy-bargy' continued out on the street. During the course of the week the judge and jury viewed CCTV footage from the night in question of a red car approaching a person who was walking onto Main Street and then a body being thrown up into the air. The body is then seen lying on the left hand side of the road as people gather around it. Wednesday, April 9 O'Reilly's friend Keith Ennis told the court last Wednesday that he went to get O'Reilly's red Honda Civic after they (McDonald and O'Reilly) has been kicked out of Rascals. He stopped behind a black car he thought belonged to O'Reilly's friend, Alana Twomey. He got out to talk to her and he said O'Reilly walked past him and got into his Honda Civic taking off with the engine revving and the car swerving. The next thing I saw was Anto (O'Reilly) coming running up the road with four fellas chasing him and blood on his face.' He said he knew something had happened so he ran and hid in the bushes for two hours, calling his mother to come and pick him up. The court heard previously that O'Reilly got into a black car outside Rascals and Mr McDonald chased him trying to kick him through the passenger window. The car drove off after Mr McDonald's leg had become stuck and he had managed to release it but returned soon after and swerved at the deceased. O'Reilly later returned again driving his own red car at speed. Mr. Ennis said he saw the driver deliberately pull the steering wheel to the right to hit Mr McDonald and get out and run. Thursday, April 10 Cassandra Dunbar told the court that she heard Mr O'Reilly shout at Mr McDonald threatening to kill him. She said that he then ran towards them and jumped in on top of Samantha Earles, who was in the passenger seat of Jenny Tobin's car, and that Mr McDonald foot got stuck in the window when he tried to get at Mr O'Reilly. She was later standing on the road when a red Honda civic sped by and her friend pulled her in off the road. She said that she then heard a loud bang and looked up the street to see glass going everywhere and people screaming.' She said that she saw Mr O'Reilly get out of the car without a t-shirt on and with blood on his face and then run away. Zoe Walker told the court that she saw a red car go past her on Main Street at high speed. She said Mr O'Reilly was driving the car and that she heard shouting and a loud bang'. When the car stopped she saw Mr O'Reilly get out and run and she realised someone had been knocked down. Friday, April 11 Arklow woman Jenny Tobin told the court on Friday that she was in her car near Rascals nightclub when an angry O'Reilly came to her car and jumped on top of her friend in the passenger seat. She said she was afraid and did not know what was going on when he said to me drive the f***ing car or you're dead.' She kept driving slowly and let the window down to free Mr McDonalds foot when she realised it had become stuck in the passenger window. O'Reilly demanded she drive back to Main Street and told her to drive to Hattons to get a shotgun. As they neared the chemist Mr McDonald was standing on the side of the street and that O'Reilly must have seen him too and leaned over and grabbed the steering wheel and turned it in the direction of the deceased but she turned it back. She said O'Reilly then got into a red car which had stopped and he drove off at speed like he was not in control of the car and swiped hers as he took off. Moments later O'Reilly came running back up the street with no shirt on and blood all over his chest. She drove McDonald to the Garda station after he shouted that he had killed someone and would kill her parents if she did not drive him. Monday, April 14 Michael Kenny, in evidence on Monday, said that O'Reilly sped up his car as he approached Mr. McDonald on Main Street and that he never hit the brakes. The car hit his legs and his head hit the windscreen and he just flicked up in the air.' Samantha Earles told the court that she was in the car with Jenny Tobin when O'Reilly got into the passenger seat on top of her and ordered Ms. Tobin to drive. She said O'Reilly was going mad she said hitting the dashboard with his fists and that as they reached the top of the town he demanded to be taken to Hatton's to get a shotgun. As they drove back down the street she said O'Reilly reached over and grabbed the steering wheel pushing it in the direction of Mr McDonald who was standing just off the footpath. O'Reilly eventually got out of Miss Tobin's car and into his own red Honda Civic. Ms. said he sped off into the main street again, hitting Miss Tobin's car as he took off. She added that she thought that O'Reilly seemed more angry than frightened. Tuesday, April 15 A friend of the deceased told the court that O'Reilly was acting like the antichrist' after the men had fought in Rascals nightclub and although he had the opportunity he had not left town. He said his friend had two near brushes with O'Reilly which included Mr. McDonald's foot being caught in the car window and later swerving at him. What was he coming back for he had a million opportunities to get out of town. He knew how to get out of town. He continued up the street, knew our whereabouts and knew exactly what he was doing,' Mr O'Reilly said. Witnesses previously gave evidence the red car belonging to the accused drove down the street, did a three-point turn and came back up the street. The red car veered straight in on to the wrong side of the road, hit Daniel threw him 20 feet in the air and missed me.' I clearly saw he swerved in to hit Daniel McDonald, there's no doubt in my mind,' Mr O'Reilly said. Under cross-examination by Mr Peter LeVert BL Mr O'Reilly said he never thought O'Reilly would write off his car trying to kill them. You don't think anybody would be mad enough to do that do you?' Mr Le Vert asked. Well we're obviously here today to prove that he is,' Mr O'Reilly replied. The trial continues. 
