cars
{  
    February 13 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/how-the-worlds-smuggest-car-lost-its-smirk-26631831.html }
Abyss Grey is just one of a vast array of colours offered if you want to buy a new Toyota Prius. It is a stark name to describe a dark shade of gun-metal, but an increasingly relevant one for the Japanese car-making giant. Toyota is staring into the abyss, after recalling more than eight million cars worldwide so far this year, including 18,000 in Ireland. Problems with braking and unintentional acceleration have resulted in lawsuits throughout the world and forced the company into the mass recall, which is conservatively costing Toyota €1.5bn. The highly publicised debacle is making its boastful marketing catchphrase "the best built cars in the world" sound just a little fanciful. This week, the firm's problems became even worse when it was forced to recall the third-generation Prius, which was launched amid much fanfare last year. With CO2 emissions of just 89g/km, the 1.8-litre "Base" model is the greenest car you can buy in Ireland today -- with the exception of a handful of fledgling fully electric cars stymied by poor performance figures. It enjoys the lowest car tax rate -- €100 -- and Toyota claims it is capable of 74.2mpg. None of that will concern anybody who has just taken possession of the new model. Almost 500,000 are being recalled globally, thanks to a software glitch that can lead to braking problems; in Ireland, the 58 people who bought generation-three since its November introduction have been notified and urged to address the issue. According to Ian Corbett, Toyota Ireland's marketing manager, the Prius can be fixed free of charge by any of its dealerships nationwide and it takes just 40 minutes. "It is a straightforward software issue that can be fixed easily," he says. "We are sorry for the inconvenience, but we want to assure customers that we are in control of the problem." Yet, the car's reputation won't be so easily salvaged. Since the original Prius was launched in Japan in 1997, it has been held aloft as a benchmark for eco-friendly motoring, thanks to its pioneering petrol-electric hybrid engine. Soon after its introduction to the US and Europe in 2000, it became the car of choice for those keen to play their part in lowering their carbon footprint. Nowhere has the Prius's impact been felt more than Los Angeles, where owners can use the much-sought-after car-pool lanes. The championing of several of Hollywood's elite has helped make the car a status symbol in the city. Leonardo di Caprio and Cameron Diaz are among those happy to be seen driving the car and bigging it up in interviews. And Seinfeld creator Larry David drives a Prius in most episodes of his hit comedy Curb Your Enthusiasm, possibly as a result of the influence of his ex-wife, Laurie, who is one of the most vociferous environmental campaigners in the US. In Ireland, the Prius's impact has risen since the Greens got into Government. Environment Minister John Gormley is chauffeured about in a Prius -- eschewing the Mercedes S-Class that is used by several other members of the cabinet. Gormley won't have to worry about the recall -- his car is a second-generation model. Although most of the car manufacturers have drastically lowered their emissions -- several models from Honda and Volvo come close to the Prius's performance figures, and BMW's Efficient Dynamics technology has been festooned with awards -- no maker has captured the environmental zeitgeist like Toyota has. Yet, while the Prius has attracted millions of devotees -- and helped kickstart a revolution in fuel economy -- it has been heavily criticised too. No car seems to polarise opinions as much and few have been lampooned as viciously. A 2006 episode of South Park called Smug Alert! poked fun at drivers of hybrid cars, pointing out the self-satisfied, self-importance of buyers of the Pious -- as the Toyota's hybrid was cheekily renamed. Market research in the US seemed to back up the smug thesis: in July 2007, The New York Times reported on research in the US that found that 56pc of Prius drivers said their main reason for buying it was that "it makes a statement about me", while just 36pc cited fuel economy as a prime motivator. Shortly afterwards, Washington Post columnist Robert Samuelson coined the term "Prius politics" to describe a situation where the driver's desire to "show off" is a stronger motivator than the desire to curb greenhouse gas emissions. And last year, a US advertising agency created a series of posters poking fun at the car which were widely circulated online. Under the strapline "Well, at least (s)he drives a Prius", the "adverts" show Prius drivers removing a body bag from the boot in a wooded clearing, hiring a prostitute and blatantly conducting an extra-marital affair. It also received a vicious review on BBC's Top Gear, with Jeremy Clarkson introducing the car as "the Godawful Prius" and describing it as "one of my least favourite cars in the world". "It certainly isn't pretty," Clarkson noted. "I'd rather look at the back of a baboon. Nor does it score many marks for quality -- they seem to have made it out of tracing paper." The Top Gear segment ended with a modern-day cowboy destroying the test car with a variety of guns. Meanwhile, it appears that the firm will not be abandoning its "best built cars in the world" line any time soon. "For us at Toyota, this episode is an occasion for redoubling our commitment to quality as our most fundamental principle," said the firm's president Akio Toyoda. Three years ago, Toyota officially became the world's largest car manufacturer -- and Toyoda and his team will be fighting to ensure that it stays in that position. The new Auris will have the Prius's hybrid technology fitted this summer and there is talk of the company refreshing its entire fleet. Despite the headlines, there is nothing usual about car recalls. In fact, more than 170,000 across 24 different makes were recalled in Ireland last year alone. Toyota was only responsible for a small number of those figures. "The general public doesn't seem to be aware that recalls happen all the time and just about every car manufacturer has to do it," says the MD of an Irish Toyota dealership, who does not wish to be named. "I'm not saying that what is happening to Toyota right now isn't serious, because it is. But I just can't understand how the company is being singled out for such criticism. Maybe, it goes with the territory of being the biggest car company in the world, or perhaps some of the car makers who aren't doing so well are spinning the story. "Either way, I think the company is too highly regarded not to make a complete recovery. There are a lot of very happy, loyal Toyota owners in Ireland and I think that situation is set to stay. We will get over this -- and the Prius will too. Mark my words." Irish Independent 
