cars
{ Treacy Hogan 
    November 01 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/nct-tests-to-combat-boy-racer-top-speed-car-scam-26353333.html }
IMPORTED used cars will have to undergo an NCT test before being sold on to boy racers. The move is to combat the dangerous scam of disguising high-peformance cars as 'normal' low-engine size vehicles. Until now, imported Japanese cars don't have to take an NCT test for at least a year after they are registered here. An 
Irish Independent investigation revealed the widespread scam that has allowed thousands of high-performance cars to illegally get into the hands of boy racers, many of whom are being killed in high-speed race crashes. In the scam, cars are marked down on the registration books as being of lower power, helping dealers to avoid paying Vehicle Registration Tax (VRT) at the higher rate. It then allows the boy racers to insure the turbo-charged modified cars as low-power vehicles with small engines - instead of high-performance 'rockets.' Cars are registered as low-cc vehicles, when in fact they are turbo-charged cars designed to travel at top speeds, significantly above the legal limits. Many of these high-performance imported cars are having their electronic transmissions "chipped". This process transforms the cars and makes it travel much faster. Many used cars imported from England are having their mileage clocks turned up to pay a lower VRT rate. The clocks are then turned back before being sold. Noel Brett, Road Safety Authority chief executive, said yesterday that as a result of the Irish Independent disclosure they would now be moving to make it mandatory for every imported used car to undergo an NCT test before it was sold. Mr Brett said he was shocked at the revelation. Part of the new check, details of which would have to be ironed out, would be to determine that the car has the proper specifications as determined by its manufacturer. Cars that are modified or have the electronics on the engines "chipped" to alter its performance, would be detected, as well as the correct engine size. A car dealer mentioned in our story as advertising that a 1.8-litre high-power turbo car was marked down as 1.6-litre normal car dropped the 1.6 reference from the web page yesterday. Most of the cars getting into the hands of boy racers are believed to be Japanese imports, often sold on the side of the road. The Society of the Irish Motor Industry (SIMI ) said yesterday it too was alarmed at the disclosure. Cyril McHugh, SIMI chief executive, said: "There are so many scams going on in this area." He criticised the Revenue Commissioners for not carrying out adequate checks on used cars arriving here. Concerned "The Revenue are not carrying out checks to see that the proper VRT is being paid," said the motor industry chief. He also cited the practice of the mileage clocks being altered to avoid paying the car tax. Mr McHugh said he was very concerned at the revelation that some car dealers made it easier for boy racers to buy and insure high performance cars by selling vehicles incorrectly registered for VRT. Dick O'Driscoll, chief executive Hibernian Insurance, said yesterday he backed the NCT plan for imported cars once the true specifications of the cars were identified during the test. In the UK, the vehicle licensing authority had access to the vehicle's identification number as well as its registration details. Insurance companies were therefore able to contact the authority to check up on each car's details. 
