cars
{  
    July 19 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/driven-to-distraction-26375474.html }
FOOT TO THE FLOOR OR INTO REVERSE? WHAT TO DO WITH COMPANY CARS IT was once seen as the ultimate of perks, where elevation to a higher position within a firm meant a new company car. However, since changes in tax laws two years ago, companies are now increasingly moving away from using company cars and are instead offering car allowances for employees or using fleet management services. The changes have primarily been driven from changes in the Benefit-in-Kind (BIK) laws at the start of 2004, said Oonagh Casey, senior manager in the tax department of BDO Simpson Xavier. "Prior to that the employers provided the car and it was the employee's obligation to pay the Benefit in Kind tax on it," said Ms Casey. "When that changed, the employers now had an obligation to withhold PAYE and PRSI, like a notional payment, and deduct the tax from the salary. "People weren't used to the fact that they were on a certain salary and suddenly it was being reduced because they had to pay their tax through their monthly salary. "We found an awful lot of employers have switched over to car allowances, which is like an additional salary. They give them an additional salary and employees run their own cars." Generally companies have the option of buying their own fleet of cars by way of a capital outlay, using loans to finance the purchase or using an operating lease where the cars are handed back to a management company after a period of time. Recent research from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) shows an increasing number of companies are offering cash alternatives to a company car. In addition to changes in BIK has been the rise in administrative demands, along with some companies not wanting hold large amounts of vehicles on their books. "More people are opting to pay people per mile because the per mile is completely tax-free so you just have to keep records of it," said Patricia Callan of the Small Firms Association (SFA). "Most companies that do an analysis on it would say that if you do serious mileage you will be better off financially in terms of getting mileage than a company car, so I suppose a company car would be for people who definitely need it - like sales people and people on the road." Small firms have been advised to look at the options presented to them as to whether they should specifically buy a fleet of company cars or use other methods such as leasing. "One of the biggest difficulties is that if it is a company car, you need somebody on the road for a sale," said Ms Callan. "What happens then if that person goes on sick leave or on maternity leave, in that the car goes with them but you still need to have somebody out and on the road. "Issues crop up in that sense. In that way paying paying mileage would be safer." Ms Casey said buying cars can be particularly expensive to smaller companies in terms of fleet or lease expenses. "We would normally say they should come to some agreement with their employees with regard to providing extra salary and allow them to run their own cars," she said. "If you are going to have someone who is travelling the length and breadth of the country, maybe it will be more beneficial to provide a car to them because if they are doing a lot of business miles, their BIK should be quite small anyway." However, the issue of presentation also comes into play under allowing employees to use their own car and providing an allowance, said general manager of Hertz Lease, Michael Hegarty. "One thing that has to be taken account of is the company's image," said Mr Hegarty. "Obviously they could give a cash allowance to an employee who is doing a job which represents the company and he could just take the money in a car which is not representative of the company where they work. "If a rep is out there, they will not allow a rep to take a mileage allowance unless it is a very small company with maybe one rep and the individual business doesn't want to have that hit." Maeve Heffernan, senior manager at PwC, agrees. "Some companies will be reluctant to let employees purchase their own cars because the company's image will require them to drive a certain specification of car, so they'd like their employees to be driving a BMW rather than a Skoda," she said. In addition, there are a number of issues to focus on for companies when they are deciding whether to offer a car allowance, she said. "It is not always the best option because it can give rise to additional costs for the employers, especially if they are trying to leave the employee in the same net position," she said. "With regard to legal issues, depending on the employee's employment contract, the provision of a company car could be a term or a condition of their employment. If it is, they may not be able to change the contract without the agreement of the employee. "There is the possibility of the buyout of benefit where the employment contract gives the employee the right to a company car and where employers wish to move to a cash allowance. "They may be obliged to buy out the benefit essentially to give the employees a lump sum amount to buy the benefit off them and that can be quite costly." Vice-president of risk consulting at Marsh Ireland, Sean Coleman, said companies also need to beware of the indirect costs of having a company car or a fleet of cars. "For the SME sector, they probably know at the end of the year what the least costs are, like fuel bills, but they probably don't have any idea what the indirect costs are like if there have been several accidents, the minor bumps and scrapes, the cost of not delivering on time or if someone was out for a minor injury or goodwill," said Mr Coleman. "The inverse side is that there are companies who can specialise in fleet management and look at this sort of thing in detail. From an advisory point of view, it probably behoves the company to improve their analysis of those costs. The way to do that is to report them and to analyse them. If you wanted to progress and improve, the first part of progression is analysis." 
