cars
{  
    December 19 2014 04:35 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/giving-two-fingers-to-system-30850573.html }
Giving two fingers to system A young man before the court on a drug possession charge told Judge Kevin Kilrane that he was missing his appointments with his probation officer because he was 'getting up too late'.  Patrick Evans (24) of Flannery Terrace, Gurteen, said: "I kept getting up late for them."  Inspector Paul Kilcoyne said that on April 24th, 2013, gardai in Gurteen observed the defendant driving a Honda Civic towards the Boyle direction. When stopped at Cloonloo, Sligo, the driver was told that he was going to be searched under the drugs act. "He took off running. Gardai ran after him and as he was running, he threw items on the ground and jumped over a stone wall." The items in question were retrieved by gardai. The defendant then came back onto the road and gave himself up. The court heard that the items he had thrown were 50 Diazepan tablets. Evans had eleven previous convictions, including a suspended sentence in 2013 for drugs.  Judge Kilrane said: "This man is unbelievable. He comes to court after missing his appointments with his probation officer and says brazenly that he didn't get up in the morning.  "He is giving two fingers to the probation service and the courts," Judge Kilrane said. He sentenced him to three months in prison on the drugs charge and disqualified him from driving for one year as he was using a car to carry out an offence. Evans was released on his own recognizance as he paid €500 to lodge an appeal. Man bites garda in brawl A 34-year-old man received a ten month suspended sentence for biting a garda during a street brawl in Sligo.  Before the court was Mark Gethins, with an address in Garavogue Villas. He was charged with assault causing harm to Garda Gary Conneely on Knappagh Road, Sligo, on July 14th, 2013. The court heard that plain clothes gardai were on duty and responded to a call that there was a fight outside the Southern Hotel. Inspector Paul Kilcoyne said that the situation had quelled when gardai arrived, but they continued to patrol the area. Shortly afterward, they saw two males fighting on the road.  "They were in the middle of the road and were a danger to themselves and to others. The defendant was on top of the other man, and they were punching each other." The gardai tried to pull the men away and Gethins bit the garda on the forearm. Hostilities continued until the defendant was arrested. He had a number of previous convictions, including theft, assault, criminal damage and public order. Defending solicitor, Mr Gerard McGovern, said that the majority of these cases date back to more than ten years ago.  "This man has stayed out of trouble, he apologised profusely to the garda and he said that he wasn't aware that it was a garda. He admitted his part, there was alcohol involved as he was at his nephew's 21st. He regrets the matter and I don't think that you will see him before the court. His background wasn't great but he has got away from that and the people that he was associated with then." Judge Kevin Kilrane described what happened as a vicious assault. "A violent row broke out, Mr Gethins may have been attacked but from the inspector's report, he participated in a very forceful way. I am quite sure that he knew it was a garda and bit him on the arm. The gardai need protection when dealing with such violent rows of this nature. They have a difficult job ensuring there is peace on the streets of Sligo and I am not going to accept the probation officer's report." He handed down a ten month suspended sentence and warned Gethins that if he commits any offence, that he will be going to jail. Cannais for 'own use'           A young man who was found with €40 of cannabis was given the probation act.  Inspector Paul Kilcoyne said that the defendant, Edward Cunningham, had €40 of cannabis on him. The 21-year-old, with an address at The Hawthorns, Carraroe, had the drug for his own use. 'Ten times over the limit'         An Easkey man was charged with drink driving and having no insurance when stopped on the Main Street in Enniscrone on April 27th last. Rory Barnes, of Carrowmacbrien, Easkey, was stopped by gardai after they received a report that a car was being driven erratically in the village.  They saw a car being driven with no lights on. They arrested the 26-year-old driver, who it later transpired had a driver's license but it was out of date. As the defendant was a specified driver, Judge Kevin Kilrane said that his alcohol reading meant that he was ten times above the legal limit.  The court heard that Barnes had borrowed the car to go to the shop. He pleaded guilty and had no previous convictions. The judge fined him €200 for having no insurance, €200 for drink driving and disqualified him from driving for three years. Teenager damages car     A young man took up a rock and fired it at a car, causing almost €1000 in damage. Before the court was Aaron McLoughlin (19), of Stephen McDonagh Place, Forthill. He was charged with damaging property belonging to Bridie Cosgrove.  The injured party told the court that it was an incident dating back two years. She said that she got a phone call on the date in question, July 26th, 2012, that two young men were shouting at her son. She went to the area and the defendant's mother and father came out, she added.      "They were shouting abuse. To be honest, I have no problem with the young fella, Aaron, it seems to be his father. The young fella took up a rock and fired it on my car."  The damage caused amounted to €980, which Mr McLoughlin senior had in court. Ms Cosgrove pleaded for her family could be left alone.  Judge Kevin Kilrane said: "Mr McLoughlin senior is fully aware of my views on him." Defending solicitor Mr Gerard McGovern said that the matter was going back two years. He described the defendant was a quiet enough young man.  The judge fined him €300 on the criminal damage charge. 'Who was this phantom man driving?' A 23-year-old Ballymote woman let a man she didn't know drive her and her friends to a New Year's Eve party and when stopped by gardai, the man ran off and was never identified.  Before the court was Vicky Fahey, of Castlegrove, Ballymote, was out drinking with friends in the town on New Year's Eve last. In his evidence, garda Neil O'Connor said that he was on patrol in the town at 3.15am.  He was driving along O'Connell Street and observed a group of people standing nearby. He saw a car reversing near where the group was and it took off driving from Lord Edward Street onto Teeling Street.   Garda O'Connor said: "The car, a Honda Civic, came to a junction at Teeling Street and it turned left and failed to stop at the stop sign. I could see that it was overcrowded and when I began to follow it, the car took off at speed."  He said that he put on the blue lights and drove after it out the Tubbercurry road. It came to a stop near Carrownanty and the driver took off running through fields. Garda O'Connor said: "As the car was left in a dangerous place, I decided to stay with it and its group."  He added that there was one man and four women in the car. One of the women, Vicky Fahey, told him that she was the owner of the car. "I told her that she was obliged to give details of the driver, but she denied having any knowledge of the driver, as did the other passengers." He said that all passengers were drunk and that he told Fahey that he was seizing the car. She arrived by appointment a few days later to Ballymote Garda Station, where she again denied knowing who the driver was. She said in a statement that she had gone into town and parked opposite the Corner House bar where she spent the night with friends.  They called a taxi and waited ages. "This guy came up the street and started talking to us. I was drunk. We told him we were going to a party. He said that he would drive my car out, we all went along with it." She said that it was only when the car stopped that she realised the gardai were there. The garda said that he believed Fahey knew the driver. Defending solicitor Mr Gerard McGovern asked Garda O'Connor if he checked CCTV from Ballymote to see if the driver could be identified. The garda replied that he had looked at footage from outside the Corner House and other CCTV and it didn't capture the man. Mr McGovern asked if the other passengers had reason not to say who the driver was and that the garda was assuming that Fahey was no co-operating.  Garda O'Connor said she has an obligation as owner of the car to know who she was giving the key to. When questioned, Fahey said that she wasn't the type of person to give keys of her car to someone. "There was pressure on me and I gave in in the end." She added that she had no clue who the person was. I never met him in my life."  Inspector Paul Kilcoyne said that Fahey had not said on the night that the man had walked up the street and volunteered to drive.  Judge Kevin Kilrane described the story as 'ridiculous'. He said: "This phantom man comes over to herself and her friends and says that he will drive the car. He is the only person they don't know, he just comes up the street. The story is ridiculous. I believe she knows the person driving the car. This has developed into a serious case."  The defendant said that she needed her licence as she lived five minutes outside Ballymote and was looking for work. The judge said that she was protecting someone in a misguided way. He fined her €300. 15 minute walk 'too far' A juvenile told Judge Kevin Kilrane that he was not able to sign on at Sligo Garda Station because it was a 15 minute walk from his house.  He said that it was too far to walk to the station everyday. Judge Kilrane replied: "I think a walk would do you the world of good." The young man said that the weather was also making it hard. "Not being able to walk 15 minutes to the garda station because there might be a drop of rain is not a valid  reason," the judge responded.  Put to the test A 19-year-old man was given a night off from his curfew so he can socialise on St Stephen's night.  Niall Cox, of Heatherview, Tonaphubble, asked the court if his curfew from 11pm until 8am could be revoked on December 26 as he wants to go out with friends. Inspector Padraic Burke  said that he had certain reservations taking into account Cox's previous history. Judge Kevin Kilrane said: "So say all of us. We'll put him to the test. Mr Cox, don't do anything silly on the night," he added.  Fined €500 A 30-year-old married father who was out in Sligo with friends was fined €500 for sticking his fingers up at gardai and refusing to give his name. Ronan Drumm, who works in security, told the court that a conviction would be detrimental to his career.  Ms Laura Spellman, solicitor (defending),  said that the incident on December 14th last was completely out of her character for her client. She said that Drumm, with an address in Derrylin, Fermanagh was in Sligo with a group of friends and had too much to drink.  She added that he had apologised and was very embarrassed.  Judge Kevin Kilrane asked Drumm if he gives two fingers to the PSNI, which he replied no. "You expect a 17 or 18 year-old to behave like this, not a 30-year-old man."  Given chance A west Sligo woman who was before the court for taking ten euro in coins from an elderly man was given a chance by Judge Kevin Kilrane. Geraldine Kilcullen, The Dunes, Enniscrone, was also charged with entering a house in Whitecrest Village, Enniscrone. She had received a six month suspended sentence for theft last April.  Defending solicitor, Mr Gerard McGovern, asked for his client not to be sent back to prison. "She is not without her difficulties and  she needs to put these difficulties in the past."  Judge Kilrane said that he would not reactivate her prison sentence. "This won't happen again," he told her. Damaged a car window  A 22-year-old man was before the court after he damaged a car window on the Connaughton Road.  Glen McDermott,  Knappaghmore, Strandhill Road, was charged with criminal damage for the incident, which happened on September  24th last.  Defending solicitor Mr Tom MacSharry said that McDermott is a young man with his own difficulties and said that he thought a probation report would be beneficial.  Judge Kevin Kilrane put the case back to February for a report and to address the question of compensation.  Banned from Penneys  A married mother of four was told by Judge Kevin Kilrane to stay out of Penneys, O'Connell Street, for two years.  Ellie Ward, 26, of Carbury Coast, Tullaghan, pleaded guilty to stealing €34  worth of goods from the shop on December 5th last. Inspector Padraic Burke told the court that the defendant was concealing the items in a buggy. "She was later arrested and the items were recovered," he said. Defending solicitor, Mr Gerard McGovern,, said that his client had to prove herself.  Judge Kilrane said: "You got a chance three times and you are up at it again." He handed down a two month suspended sentence and told her she cannot go to Penneys for two years, adding that if she broke her conditions, she will be going to prison.  Cloned car A man charged with speeding had his car cloned, the court heard.  Inspector Padraic Burke told the court that gardai were satisfied that the vehicle's owner was not the driver.  Before the court was Barry Convey, of Kilfree, Gurteen.  He was charged with speeding at Camross, Ballymote, on May 23rd last.  However, Convey, who represented himself, said that the car involved was not his own.  Judge Kevin Kilrane told him that it was very important to make authorities aware that his car was cloned.    Probation Act A 27-year-old man was given the probation act for possession of cannabis. Eddie Farrell, of Devins Drive, Cranmore, was before the court for possessing the drug on Maech 3rd, 2013. Fought with doorman  A young man out socialising with friends ended up being arrested after he wasn't allowed into a nightclub. Michael Murray, 25, became aggressive with a doorman at Pure Nightclub, Teeling Street, on November 27th last.  Inspector Padraic Burke told the court that gardai on patrol were called to the nightclub as the defendant was involved in a discussion with the doorman.  He was drunk and became upset as he wasn't allowed in.  Defending solicitor, Mr Mark Mullaney, said that his client pleaded guilty to the public order offence. He said that he had apologised to gardai.  Murray, of Carrintubber, Glenamaddy, Co Galway, had took a day off work to be in court.   Judge Kevin Kilrane described the case as being at the lower end of the scale.  "He wasn't allowed into the nightclub and he had excessive alcohol. "As he apologised, I will give him a chance," he added.  Banned for a year after no insurance  A student from the Republic of Congo was banned from driving for a year after he was caught driving with no insurance.  Lubangi Mpanka, a Business student in IT Sligo, was charged with driving without insurance at Glencarrig Estate on March 22nd last.  The 21-year-old with an address in Brookfield, Sligo, told Judge Kevin Kilrane that he needed his driving licence as he needed to go to Dublin to visit family.  The judge asked who was going to accompany him as he had a provisional licence.  Ms Laura Spellman, defending solicitor, said that her client was hoping to save up for a car and that he needed a licence to see family in Dublin.  Judge Kilrane that as the defendant was driving without insurance, he had to disqualify him for a year. He also fined him €25 and told Ms Spellman that  he would consider an appeal if something arises in the future.  At it again  A young man who was out of prison less than a month was arrested for roaring in Centra, Castle Street in the early hours. Barry McGrory, 20, was in prison for a number of traffic offences. The court heard he was released November 4th last. On November 27th, at 3.50am he was arrested along with his cousin, Lee McGrory for failing to leave the Centra shop. Mr Rory O'Brien, solicitor for Barry McGrory told the court that his client, from Ballintra, had issues with alcohol. He had been off alcohol in prison and the night in question  was the first time he drank after being released. Judge Kevin Kilrane adjourned his case until March 12th as the defendant intended on moving to the UK to find work and be with his family. The judge told Barry he was facing jail if he reoffends. Lee McGrory was fined €300.  Sligo Champion 
