cars
{  
    August 18 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/change-drives-motor-industrys-future-26141507.html }
Gerald Flynn analyses a major new report which predicts what kind of vehicles motorists will be driving in the next millenniumBE prepared to face more bull bars in your rear view mirror over the coming years. As you wait in longer traffic jams, you will be less likely to see nippy, shiny sports cars on the roads. World output of big, chunky sports utilities with their chrome bull-bars is set to expand by 25pc over the next five years, while the dedicated sports car sector will shrink by 21pc. The volumes for MPV (multi-purpose leisure vehicles) will climb 11pc to top 2.5m units, while increased demand for mini-vehicles will drive output ahead by almost 40pc. This is according to the recent Economist Intelligence Unit's (EIU) survey of global motor trade demand, published in the latest edition of World Model Production Forecasts*. A similar trend can be expected in the Irish market over the coming years when the current sales boom eases. Ireland is beginning to make a significant dip into car sales, with a steady growth of new car sales to 165,000 anticipated this year. New car sales have soared over the past five years, from 64,000 in 1993 to more than double at 140,000 cars last year. As the vehicles available around the world become increasingly sophisticated, there is an apparent expansion in production of vehicles at each end of the size scale. This is witnessed by high growth in mini under 10,000cc and sports utility vehicles (SUV) segments. However, in volume terms, there is still a lot of growth in the mainstream lower medium segment, particularly in Europe as new body-style variants capture share from niche segments. These are some of the issues which appear in a new report from Fitzpatrick Associates highlighting future changes in the motor production industry. The only contracting segments are sports and top-end luxury cars, which are losing out to new and luxury SUVs, particularly in North America. The specialist sports cars, like MGs and sports coupes, are also losing out to platform consolidation. In the past, manufacturers would have considered designing a dedicated platform for a sports car but they are now better at adapting platforms and this would seem to be the way forward for the large manufacturer. Several European manufacturers are bringing out new ``environmentally-friendly'' small or mini cars based on small model platforms. The highest growth will, however, come from Asia, and in particular India, where very small cars already dominate the market (through Maruti). The addition of new models from Daewoo, Hyundai and Telco is generating market interest. Pricing, rather than environmental concerns, is the main consideration here. In the Irish market, Ford and Toyota continue to slug it out for the top selling position. In the first half of this year, Ford sold 14,282 cars, while 13,650 Toyota models left the dealers' forecourts. Opel clocked 12,918 sales and Nissan was close behind at 12,229. Racing along in the mid market was Volkswagen with 11,523 sales in the Republic followed by Fiat, which secured 9,493 purchasers between January and June. Because of the importance of minicars in Japan, Suzuki and Toyota (including Daihatsu) are leading manufacturers in this segment, but Suzuki is being pushed for the top spot by Fiat, whose 600cc model is the best-selling small mini model in Europe. The segment covering 1000cc to 1300cc (such as the Renault Clio and the Nissan Micra) is the third largest segment worldwide, but it is one which declined internationally in 1998 and is forecast to fall further in the next few years before recovering again. One of the reasons for this is model cycles. In Europe, the most important market for segment cars, the model interest in the 1998-2000 period is in slightly larger cars like the Volkswagen Golf or the Toyota Corolla (usually grouped as lower-medium models in the 1300cc to two-litre range). The EIU expects that the smaller cars will catch up again after the millennium, when new variants of established models will start to appear. The Volkswagen Group dominates the 1000cc-1300cc segment, followed by the Fiat Group. Fiat is heavily dependent on emerging markets for volume here and the cumulative effect of lost production in these parts of the world has already hit the company hard, with the loss of 250,000 units in 1998. Mid-range cars like the Opel Astra or Ford Focus account for the largest segment and, according to the EIU study, offer the highest volume growth potential over the next five years. Europe is the largest producing region and there is a lot of new model interest at the moment, with a new Volkswagen Golf, Opel/Vauxhall Astra, Ford Focus and Fiat Punto all appearing within the space of just over 18 months. In North America, these cars are described as compacts and even sub-compacts and, apart from a few exceptions, they are the smallest cars considered. Globally, the Volkswagen Group is the clear market leader and is followed by the Renault Group (including Nissan). At 10m units per year, the upper medium 1600cc to 2.5 litre segment is almost as large as the lower medium range, although it is not growing as fast because there are not as many new variations of products as there are in the lower medium segment. This segment consists predominantly of saloons like the Ford Mondeo and Opel Vectra, and liftbacks rather than hatchbacks. In North America, this is the largest car segment. In excess of 4m cars per year are produced in the North American region, accounting for 46pc of global output in 1998. It is not surprising, therefore, that Ford and GM are two of the largest producers. Daimler Chrysler's output is, however, lower than that of Toyota, Nissan (included under the Renault manufacturing group) and Honda, which have all established their presence in the US and Europe through this segment. The largest producer of upmarket executive cars is now Ford, thanks to its acquisition of Volvo and its ownership of Jaguar. Ford is in a position to produce 1m luxury vehicles per year. Last year, Europe accounted for six out of ten executive models of global output in 1998, with German producers Audi (Volkswagen Group), DaimlerChrysler and BMW accounting for over 75pc of this. There are also noticeably fewer manufacturers of the top end luxury cars but the segment is expanding with Volkswagen now included through its recent acquisition of Rolls-Royce Motors, though it will retain only the Bentley marque after 2001. Mercedes and BMW still dominate in Europe and have enjoyed buoyant sales in Ireland over the past three years. Ford and GM are the largest luxury car manufacturers, with Ford's ownership of Jaguar and General Motor's range of Cadillacs. More recently, Toyota's Lexus range has made noticeable sales to traditional Mercedes and BMW customers. The largest producers of specialist sports cars are in western Europe and Japan. This reflects demand, to some extent, but such specialist vehicles are exported widely. More importantly, this reflects the fact that specialist sports car manufacturers are based in Europe and Japan, the largest being Daimler Chrysler, which owns Mercedes Benz and BMW. Jaguar is now making a strong push to take a larger slice of this market, with plans to bring sales of its new S-type up to 85,000 this year (from 50,000 in 1989). Last year, the US market accounted for 45pc of sales and sales in Britain took another 23pc. Germany and Japan accounted for 8pc and 4pc respectively and these two markets are now being targeted. This week, Jaguar's new managing director, Jonathan Browning, said that ``we are not satisfied with our level of presence in both these markets''. Within three years, it will launch its `baby Jag' the X-400. North America is the original multi-purpose vehicle or minivan (MPV) market and has the highest production volumes. European manufacturers only jumped on to this bandwagon relatively recently. Irish demand reflects a western European trend towards smaller MPVs, based on mid-market cars such as the Renault Megane Scenic. North America is the largest SUV producing region, and accounted for more than half of global output in 1998. This reflects exceedingly strong demand in the US for car-like trucks and manufacturers are extending offerings by launching luxury sports utility vehicles (SUVs). At one time, it would have seemed like a contradiction in terms to have a Mercedes-Benz, Lincoln or Cadillac SUV, but these are all now reality. On this side of the Atlantic, even Porsche is getting in on the act, with a joint-venture vehicle with Volkswagen due in 2002.  * The EIU motor trends report is available from Fitzpatrick Associates Tel: 01-6763200 Price: Stg£495.00. 
