cars
{  
    March 26 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-ultimate-head-turner-25996728.html }
The death this week of auto tycoon John DeLorean puts his controversial car in the spotlight again. And, as John Meagher reports, a whole new generation is falling in love with the stainless steel exterior and flashy gull-wing doors It's Wednesday night in Prosperous, Co Kildare, and the onslaught of wind and rain only enhances the image of a one-horse town. The last thing you would expect to find roaring up the main street is a DeLorean - the futuristic looking sports car that makes every other vehicle in the vicinity look deadly dull. When the sleek, low, silver machine pulls into the church car park the crowd who are hovering outside the nearby village hall stare slack-jawed. And when its trademark gull-wing doors open skyward they must wonder if they have just been visited from aliens from a far-off galaxy. Even though it was designed in the mid-1970s and first went on sale in 1981, the DMC-12 (to use its proper name), has lost none of its ability to capture the imagination. And after attaining cult status as the true star of the mid-1980s movie, 
Back To The Future, the Irish-built car is appealing to a new generation of owners - many of whom are too young to remember the controversy that surrounded the end of production 22 years ago and the bizarre way its creator John DeLorean exited the industry. At 29, Prosperous-based Dubliner Paul O'Malley is not old enough to recall at first-hand the excitement that greeted the unveiling of the so-called 'ethical sports car' that bore the name of a man who had been a hero at General Motors, but who would come to be regarded by many as one of the great conmen of the 20th century. But this classic car enthusiast certainly knows his stuff. A mechanic by trade, he knows his DeLorean inside out. "I had a Porsche 911 before, but this is my dream car," he says. "It's just a beautiful, exciting car to drive and there is nothing else quite like it out there. Ordinary cars have no appeal for me whatsoever." Paul's "normal drive" is an old Opel Vectra which, he cheerfully points out, doesn't have the DMC-12's pleasing torque. "The DeLorean is not the sort of car you'd want to drive to work in or leave parked on the street. You don't want to be stuck in traffic in one of these." It's not the sort of car either, Paul says, that would suit those who like to avoid attention. Driving one cries out 'Look at me'. "You get people taking photos of it on their camera phones all the time," he says. "People come up and ask you questions about it or make comments about 
Back To The Future. It's certainly a car that gets you noticed." The car has cost Paul an estimated ?30,000 to buy and service, but he says it's worth every cent. "I know that in a crisis I could sell it and get that money back at least, but I'd never want to be parted from it. It means too much to me." So much so, in fact, that he has recently bought a second one, albeit a DeLorean that requires a great deal of work to get it back to proper order. "A lot of people think that it's men in their 50s who own these cars but, while that's true to an extent, there are lots of people my age and younger who are getting into them. I know a 16-year-old in Belfast who bought one off eBay and had it shipped over from America. He had been saving up for it for eight years." John Dore, 25, from Limerick is arguably the number one DeLorean enthusiast in Ireland and the founder of the website www.delorean.ie The computer technician bought his DMC-12 three years ago while living in Boston. "I'd get home from work around five and I'd go straight to the car and drive 200, 250 miles that night. I'd get back to the house at all hours in the morning and would be soon back at work. But I wouldn't care because there's nothing like the feeling you get when you drive that car." Since first seeing its cool shape as a young boy, John dreamed of owning one and set about gathering as much research about it as he could. He became so obsessed with the car and its creator that he phoned John DeLorean on spec as a teenager while in the US on a J1 student visa. Taken with the pluck of the kid, DeLorean invited him to his stately mansion in New Jersey. A framed autographed photo of the two Johns hangs proudly in his Lucan home. "He was such a gentleman, really generous with his time and very interested with what was happening back home," he recalls. "It was the day after the Omagh bombing and he was really concerned about that." John was upset when he heard about DeLorean's death on Monday. "I had intended to let him know that I'd bought the car and was loving every minute of it," he says. "I was going to send him some of my wedding photographs to sign." No ordinary wedding snaps, John and his wife Deirdre are joined by an especially gleaming DeLorean in most of the shots. "I was up all night cleaning it for the big day," he beams. The car is currently housed at his parents' home in Limerick. "I'd be too afraid to leave it outside the house here." He has no such qualms about his day-to-day car, a Ford Escort. "I know John DeLorean got bad press all the time, but the thing is he was never found guilty of anything. He should be remembered for the way he tried to transform the car industry and not just with the DMC-12. He introduced the whole idea of the 'muscle car' with the Pontiac GTO in the '60s. He was always thinking new things. When I met him he was talking about building a car made of super-durable plastic." Like his friend Paul O'Malley, John finds little appeal in modern cars. "They're so boring, so functional," he says. "The other day I couldn't help noticing how similar looking the Toyota Avensis and the Opel Vectra are. These are cars from rival companies on different continents and there was very little difference between them. "John DeLorean understood that for a lot of people, especially young men, driving can be a very enjoyable experience and cars should be fun. And that's the thing about the DeLorean - it's such a fun car to drive." 
