cars
{  
    November 19 2009 03:53 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/localnotes/claims-of-excessive-force-used-on-driver-rejected-by-judge-27567468.html }
A 36-years old mother who alleged that gardai used excessive force on her after she was stopped and subsequently arrested for drunk driving was described by Judge Denis McLoughlin at Ballymote Court as totally unreliable and unconvincing. Saying the word "perjury" came to mind, the Judge said it seemed the defendant had decided to attack the good character of the gardai involved to defend the indefensible. He also said he thought that in the circumstances, the force used by the gardai was reasonable. Before the court was Caroline Kelly, Keash, Ballymote, who was charged with refusing to give a breath sample at Sligo Garda Station on May 15th last. Judge McLoughlin also directed that she produce a certificate of competency before she is allowed to drive again. Recognisances were fixed for appeal purposes. Inspector Gerry Connolly prosecuted. Mr. Keenan Johnson, Solr, defended. Garda Eamon McDonnell told the court that at 12 a.m. on May 15th last he was the observer in an official unmarked patrol car and Garda Derek Lynott was the driver. At about 12:30 a.m. at Knockbrack he saw a vehicle travelling at speed toward the garda car. Garda Lynott turned the car. Before they caught up with it, Garda McDonnell saw it swerve on two occasions. For approximately two kilometers it failed to stop. After it stopped at Knockbrack Cemetery, Garda McDonnell said he knocked on the driver's window and a female was in the driver's seat. She let down the window and there was a strong smell of alcohol and her words were slurred. When she stepped out of the vehicle, she was unsteady on her feet. Garda McDonnell said that when he asked her for details, Kelly told him she was not telling him anything. When he told her he was arresting her for drunken driving, she replied, "No, you are not." She attempted to get back into the vehicle. She resisted arrest and was eventually handcuffed. Garda McDonnell said they got assistance and at the patrol car, Kelly put up another struggle. Gardai had to sit either side of her in the patrol car because she attempted to get out and she was kicking the driver's seat in front of her. She was taken to Sligo Garda Station. On the way to the station she refused to give details. She was talking abruptly, saying she was not going to tell the gardai anything and to "f..k off." She was verbally abusive. She also refused to give details in the garda station and said she wasn't going to give a breath test and that she wanted a doctor, that it was her right and that the State would pay for it anyway. Garda McDonnell said that because he could not verify all her details he could not input them into the intoxiliser machine. She said she would not exhale into the system and that she was not giving a sample. When requested to give a breath test, she said: "Not a f..king chance. My breath is my breath. I am not blowing into the machine." During cross-examination by Mr. Johnson, Garda McDonnell said the gardai were in an unmarked patrol car. They got a partial registration of the car as it passed and he wrote down "97 D." He put down the rest of the number later. The vehicle was a Mini Mitsubishi Pajero. Garda McDonnell said he could identify the vehicle at night on a dark country road. He completed the registration after they turned the garda car around and caught up with the vehicle. When the gardai followed the vehicle, they put on the blue light and siren. Mr. Johnson put it to Garda McDonnell that the defendant pulled in at Knockbrack Cemetery, which was the first safe place to pull in. Garda McDonnell said it was incorrect to say that when Kelly stopped, she got out of the vehicle and was standing at it. Mr. Johnson said the first thing the garda wrote in his contemporaneous notes was "very unsteady on feet" and he submitted that this confirmed she was out of the vehicle when the garda approached her. However, McDonnell said he had to knock on the window. Mr. Johnson: "She will say there was excessive force used by the gardai." Garda McDonnell: "I would say reasonable enough force was used to prevent her resisting her arrest." He added that it was incorrect to say that, before she knew it, there were handcuffs on her. He disagreed that there was "excessive" force that was "over the top." Mr. Johnson: "She will say that because of the way she was treated by the gardai, she reacted negatively to them." Garda McDonnell said it was incorrect to say that her vehicle was searched using ultra-violet blue lights. He added that he never saw such lights being used in his time in the Force. During further cross-examination, Garda McDonnell said Kelly was up against her jeep as she attempted to get back into the vehicle. After the gardai put the handcuffs on her, they escorted her to the patrol car and she refused to get in. Garda McDonnell told Mr. Johnson that he didn't witness a Garda Sergeant slap Kelly across the face. He also didn't recall the sergeant put his hand on her leg. Garda McDonnell agreed that in the garda car, her shoulders were pinned back by gardai. At this point, Mr. Johnson handed a medical report into court which heard that Kelly went to her GP on the following Monday and that she advised the doctor that she had been assaulted, slapped and held down. Garda McDonnell said he accepted their hands were on her shoulders. The court heard that Kelly had bruising on an elbow, tenderness on neck, shoulder and left thumb, and that she had anxiety. Garda McDonnell: "I would say the result of her resisting arrest was that we had no option but to restrain her." When Mr. Johnson put it to Garda McDonnell that Kelly would say she had drank only one pint of beer, the garda replied: "I would say she was intoxicated to such an extent as not to have proper control of a mechanically propelled vehicle in a public place." Garda McDonnell also said he observed a bottle of wine in Kelly's vehicle. Mr. Johnson said that Sally Howe, who was in the vehicle with Kelly, would say she was holding two pints of beer in the vehicle and that if there was a smell of alcohol, it was coming from that. The court heard that Kelly and Howe had been in Higgins's of Culfadda and that the bar maid was feeling tired and gave them two pints to take out. During further cross-examination, Garda McDonnell insisted he gave the defendant notice of her rights and of the consequences of not giving a breath sample, even though he hadn't written this in his notebook. He also said it was incorrect for Kelly to say there was no mouthpiece fitted to the breath machine. Sgt. Martin Donoghue told the court that on May 15th last, he was a rear seat passenger in an unmarked patrol car driven by Garda Lynott. Garda McDonnell was the observer. Sgt. Donoghue told how they saw the lights of an oncoming vehicle that appeared to be travelling at excessive speed. They followed it and it was stopped at Knockbrack with the blue light and siren. He remained in the patrol car and he saw the driver resisting Garda McDonnell who was trying to arrest her. Sgt. Donoghue got out and she was kicking out against all members of the gardai and wanted to get back into her car. They took her to the patrol car and put her in the rear and she again resisted. She was very aggressive, was shouting at the top of here voice and kicking out. In the back of the patrol car she was making a motion of moving back and forward. She refused to give her name and was using bad language. When it was put to Sgt. Donoghue that he slapped Kelly, he said: "That's absolutely not true." Asked if she called out that she was slapped, he said he wouldn't be surprised if she called that out because on the night she made a lot of allegations. He said he had no recollection of her calling out, "he slapped me." Sgt. Donoghue said the gardai restrained her by the shoulders. First, they had to restrain her legs. He put his left arm on her shoulder to restrain her. Asked if she was wearing a seat belt, he said: "She was a very difficult prisoner, never mind to put a seat belt on her. I am sure there would be more allegations if one tried to put a seat belt on her. She was shouting at the top of her voice and she was behaving in a very abnormal fashion. I never seen anything like it in my service." Sgt. Donoghue said he accepted the gardai used elbows against her shoulders. "She was a very violent prisoner and we had to use as much force as necessary. She basically was gone out of her mind," he said. Sgt. Donoghue told Mr. Johnson that he disagreed that there was excessive use of force. Mr. Johnson claimed the medical evidence would bear that up. Sgt. Donoghue said that during a lot of the journey to Sligo, he would have kept his elbow in her shoulder. "Any time I moved my arm she would go out of her mind," he said, adding that he never had to restrain a lady in this manner before in his 27 years in the Force. He said he did not recall ultraviolet lights having been used to search her vehicle. He also said he did not recall putting his hand on her leg but he said it could quite easily happen because there was such restraint taking place. Caroline Kelly told the court that she and Sally Howe decided to go for a pint. They went to Boyle about 11:30 and got €20 with a bankcard and they then went to Higgins in Culfadda. "We had a pint each," she said, adding that there were only three people in the bar. A man left about 12:30 and the bar lady was very tired. "We said could we take these two pints with us and we went to the car and remained there for a while because we were locked in conversation about a friend who had died," Kelly told the court. She said she started the car and headed in the Keash direction. She noticed bright lights up close behind her. She looked for a safe place to pull in and decided to pull in at Knockbrack. She immediately got out of the vehicle. She heard "drunk driving" and one of the guards put handcuffs on her behind her back. Kelly told the court that she said, "I am not resisting arrest." "They took me to the car and I was given a slap on the face and told to shut up," she said. And, referring to Sgt. Donoghue, she said: "And yes, I was abusive when you put your hand on my leg. I said, ' take your hand off my leg, you f..kin' w****r." She said the gardai abused their power and she felt very passionate about that. "It was a reaction to the way I was treated, because of the way I was handled. I still have marks on my hands from the handcuffs," she said. She added that the gardai used excessive force. "They used their elbows, jammed into my shoulders," she said. She also said she was shoved up against the car and "dragged and pushed and shoved" and given a slap and told to "shut up." She said she thought the intoxiliser was like a big fax machine. The gardai were saying, "sh, sh . . ", that they were recording something, and she then shut her mouth. She said that after she was given a slap, she "couldn't buy into that." "They are supposed to be looking after me," she said. She thought the level of force used was "completely unreasonable and she didn't think there was any need for it. She did not think there was any need to put a hand on her leg. She did not mean that it was in a sexual way. She did not remember kicking out. The guards mumbled a load of words at her and she just heard "drunk driving." "I know I wasn't over the limit. I had just one drink," she said. Cross-examined by Inspector Connolly, Kelly said they were in the bar in Higgins for only about an hour. A friend died about a month before that. "I had a relationship with him and my friend had a relationship with him and we were talking about how much he meant to us," she told Inspector Connolly. She said she didn't know it was a garda car that was behind her until the blue light started flashing. She said it could have been boy racers. As to when she got out of her vehicle, she said: "I know for a fact, 122%, I got out of the car when I stopped it." Inspector: "Why did the gardai have to handcuff you?" Defendant: "That's my question. Sally requested that a woman cop be got." Inspector: "There are six defendants up on drunken driving today and you were the only one who had to be handcuffed." Defendant: "That's irrelevant to me, to what's going on in my life." She said she was held overnight by the gardai who, she alleged, threatened that her son would be taken off her if she didn't cooperate, and that she would go to prison and "all sorts of things." Asked by Inspector Connolly what excessive force was allegedly used, Kelly referred to the handcuffs, a slap on the face and that she was "wedged between two males" in the car. She said she never kicked anybody. "It's very hard when you are sitting it the back of a car to kick anybody," she said. She also said part of her thumb was numb because of the handcuffs and there was tenderness in her shoulders where the gardai wedged their elbows into them. "I do not cause hassle but what I have been through, I think it is out of order," she said. Sally Howe told the court that Kelly got out of her car straight away as soon as it stopped and a garda put her hands behind her back and handcuffed her. Kelly shouted out that one of the gardai had slapped her. Sally Howe said she was told to get back into the car. According to Howe, Kelly said, "I am not resisting arrest." She also said a lamp was used inside Kelly's vehicle to search it. Saying there was a conflict in the evidence between the State and the defence, Mr. Johnson pointed out that Sgt. Donoghue couldn't say when Kelly was cuffed but Kelly's evidence was corroborated by Miss Howell. Mr. Johnson said that on the weight of the evidence, he thought one had to accept that Kelly was outside her car. His said his submission was that the use of handcuffs and the treatment of her constituted excessive use of force and everything that followed was illegal. Mr. Johnson said that Ms. Kelly's evidence was that in the garda station, she did not receive any warning that it was an offence not to take the intoxiliser test. She said that to the best of her recollection, she did not see a new mouthpiece on the intoxiliser. Judge McLoughlin said that having considered the evidence in this case, word came to mind, and that was perjury. He described the defendant's evidence as "totally unconvincing." He added that it's said that, sometimes, attack is the best method of defence and it seemed in this case that the defendant decided to attack the good character of the gardai to defend the indefensible. She had acted in an inexcusable manner and he accepted everything from the gardai. The Judge thought that in all the circumstances, the force used by the gardai was reasonable. He was totally happy that the gardai complied with all the requirements and that the defendant indicated very early that she had no intention of giving a breath sample. Judge McLoughlin added that, for the record, he accepted Sergeant Donoghue's evidence that he did not slap the defendant. The Judge said she was totally unreliable and he could not accept anything she said in the witness box. 
