cars
{ Siobhan Cronin 
    May 06 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/never-mind-that-clock-check-the-service-record-26411394.html }
SOMETIMES it seems our car dealers are hell-bent on finding new ways to give us less money on trade-ins. In those distant penny-pinching Eighties, when it was a buyer's market, you could happily point to a rather large dent (someone once left a barrel of Guinness on the roof of my '88 Micra as a 'joke'!) or a missing wing mirror (in the days when passenger mirrors were a luxury rather than an essential) and you could rest assured the most cutting response from Mr Garageman would be something like, "Ah, don't worry about it, sure it won't cost us anything to fix it." Nowadays, the colour of your car ("But red is hard to sell, missus") or an outdated CD player ("They don't go for those oul gadgets any more, lady!") are enough to prompt shaking heads and rolling eyes from your unimpressed salesman, and an instant drop in resale value for your little baby. But the biggest deterrent in this country to a good trade-in still seems to be that innocent-looking little gauge on your dash: the mileage counter. "Ah, jaysus woman, I'd never sell that," a salesman in a large Dublin dealership told me recently when I rang to trade in my much-loved '03 Hyundai, with 65k on the clock. Now, given that we are living in a land of commuters, and we travel longer distances to work than any of our European counterparts, what, exactly, are garages expecting nowadays, I wondered. I held back from quoting the recent report by the European Environment Agency which revealed that the Irish are on the road more than any other Europeans. Each person travels the equivalent of 16,000km a year, twice as much as a decade ago. In that time, the number of vehicles on the roads has increased by one million. And when you consider that 16,000km is per person, that means many commuters probably cover a hell of a lot more distance. Of course, there are huge environmental downsides to all this car travel, but when there is no viable public transport option in most cases, it's time to stop blaming the commuter, accept reality and try to start making life a little more comfortable for us. So, when you present a car for sale, a mere three years old, with a clean body, immaculate interior and in a non-offensive (nay, popular!) black, why is the only obstacle to your sale the oddly named odometer behind the steering wheel? "I just wouldn't be interested in that car at that mileage, full stop," another main dealer, this time in Naas, told me. "I'd never sell it." So when did this car-loving country of ours become so obsessed with mileage, and is our preoccupation with distance travelled ever justified? Cyril McHugh, head of the Society of the Irish Motor Industry (SIMI), agrees that we take the mileage issue too seriously here. "Our view in the industry is that we are far too obsessed with mileage. In other countries, they see the service history of the car as being far more important. The history is a far better indicator - especially with the way our roads have improved. A well-serviced car with 60,000 miles on the clock could be a far better buy than a car with 40,000 which has never been serviced," he advises. He says the SIMI would like to see much less of an emphasis on mileage, and more on how a car has been treated. The introduction of the NCT has meant that we now have a very good barometer for cars, he points out. Although the Association says it's not a huge problem in the trade, the SIMI is now campaigning to have tampering with the clock made a criminal offence. At the moment, it is only illegal to sell a car if you are aware it has been tampered with, but not to do the actual tampering. The AA's Conor Faughnan disagrees, however, that it's not widespread. "Unfortunately, it is every bit as common as it was a few years ago, and if anything it has got easier with more modern cars, and harder to trace," he says. But he adds that if you take the time, and the relatively cheap expense, to employ an engineer to check any prospective purchase for you, they may be able to spot when a clock has been fiddled with. Of course, cars with low mileage are more likely to have been a victim of this, so high mileage cars are, by and large, more likely to have recorded genuine mileage. The AA has been campaigning to have mileage recorded every time a vehicle is re-taxed, or else at the NCT stage, so that future buyers can check the details. This should also make the practice less attractive to garages if there has been a constant record of the car's mileage history. And remember, a garage is not obliged to tell you a car has been "clocked" unless you ask the question directly. It's a real case of caveat emptor, he points out. However, Faughnan does agree with the SIMI when it comes to reliable methods for gauging roadworthiness. "Mileage is a very rough and very inaccurate method of judging a car," he says. "And of course it also depends on the type of mileage. A city car with 40k miles will probably have more wear and tear, on the clutch and break pads, for example, than a car with 60k miles which has been travelling up and down a motorway." But he says it is not unreasonable for a garage to refuse a trade-in if they think it's going to be hard to sell, because of our obsession with mileage. "Naturally, with so many second cars in families now, there are plenty of low-mileage cars out there, so it is a buyer's market. And this trend is set to continue. Dealers are working on relatively tight margins when it comes to new cars, so often a garage's profitability depends on its second-hand car business. And for every new car sale, there are 2.5 second-hand car sales." But this also means that there is much better competition for the buyer in the second-hand market. So, if you get a bad reaction from one garage, don't be put off. As with insurance, there may well be a nicer reception waiting for at your next port of call. 
