cars
{  
    January 22 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/traffic-chaos-for-tralee-as-two-car-parks-shut-27366052.html }
MOTORISTS visiting Tralee over the coming months will have to prepare themselves for a fierce battle for car spaces, with two of the towns most popular car-parks closing to make way for major developments. However, motorists have been asked to remain patient by Tralees Chamber of Commerce, which has said that the development work will result in even more car spac MOTORISTS visiting Tralee over the coming months will have to prepare themselves for a fierce battle for car spaces, with two of the town’s most popular car-parks closing to make way for major developments. However, motorists have been asked to remain patient by Tralee’s Chamber of Commerce, which has said that the development work will result in even more car spaces becoming available in the town centre. On Monday, the Lower Tannery Car Park – opposite Tralee’s cinema – was fully closed to allow construction work begin on a new five storey retail and accommodation development. The proposed development includes a two storey underground car park with space for 208 cars and will also include two storeys of shops. As part of the construction work, the road connecting Ivy Terrace with the Upper Tannery Car Park will also be closed from Thursday, January 22 to Saturday, July 17. Similarly, the two lane road along Ivy Terrace will be reduced to one lane for the duration of the construction work. In addition, the temporary car-park on the site of the old Cameo bakery is due to close in the near future to make way for another five storey development. Thomas Ross, Michael Slattery and David Slattery of Russell Street, Tralee are the businessmen behind the development which includes retail units at ground level, along with four floors of private apartments. Speaking about the closure of the car-parks, Tralee Chamber of Commerce Development Officer, Peter Maguire, said he expected to receive some complaints over the closure of the car-parks but said the construction work is in the best interest of the town. “Unfortunately you can’t make an omelette without breaking some eggs. “The work that is being done is of great economic importance to the town. Hardship will have to be endured,” he said. Mr Maguire said that he was confident the town’s other car-parks would be able to absorb the loss of car spaces. He pointed out that the town council has provided free car parking at Fels Point, while the Brandon Car Park and the town’s two multi-storey car-parks still haven’t reached full capacity. “There is ample space if people want to avail of it,” Mr Maguire said. Mr Maguire said the development of 208 new car spaces in the Lower Tannery Car Park would be of considerable benefit to the town and would help attract even more shoppers to Tralee. In Spring of 2003 
The Kerryman ran a number of news features on the parking problems being experienced by motorists in Tralee. The features included a snap count of illegally parked cars at lunchtime in Kerry’s busiest town. On the first occasion our journalists counted 175 cars illegally parked in Tralee. Further surveys found over a hundred cars on double yellow lines on each occasion. Eight surveys were carried out in all. It was also revealed in April of 2003 that Tralee two multi-storey car-parks had only ever once had to turn on the ‘no vacancies’ light. That solitary occasion continues to be the busiest shopping day of the year, the always frantic Christmas Eve. 
