cars
{  
    October 17 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/buying-a-new-or-second-hand-car-ask-the-experts-37426482.html }
Car-value expert Gillian Keogh teams up with Motoring Editor Eddie Cunningham to help you make the right choice with your next purchase. Gillian is Editor of a monthly guidebook on the values of used cars produced by the Motor Trade Publishers team. The team supplies a car-valuing service to the motor trade, insurance companies and finance houses I have a 161-reg Audi A4 automatic diesel (because I have a disability). Best car I ever had.  I always traded at between two and four years because I used my car for my work and clocked 30,000-plus km a year. Now retired, I am clocking 15,000km annually. If trading in 2019 what would you suggest? I like high spec and don't really want to revert to a small car. There will be 75,000km on clock in 2019. Budget not a major issue as I get the durability package. Gillian: How about just changing up to a 191-reg Audi A4? If you are driving the best car you have ever had, then stick with it. But there is no need to go diesel with your new lower annual driving, so maybe put the extra cash towards the high-spec petrol S-Line model. Another option would be an A3 saloon. It is smaller, but you will pick up a new 1.5 S-Line S-Tronic with an impressive 150bhp for around €40k. In your case, it is worth considering keeping your car for another while and waiting to see what the market brings out in 2019. A hybrid might suit and there are a lot more options coming available. The saloon market is suffering a little at the minute due to the increased demand for SUVs, but it might just pick up with the launch of the new BMW 3 series, revised VW Passat and other popular models in hybrid and plug-in hybrid engines due out next year. Eddie: If it ain't broken don't fix it. Gillian and I could list off a range of alternatives, but you obviously love the Audi, so repeat the experience, but with a petrol engine this time due to your lower mileage. I have a 2016 high-spec Kia Sportage and I would like to change in 2019. I love the car. It's great for my bad back and the boot space is brilliant for golf clubs. They are bringing in a Sportage hybrid in 2019, but my budget is approx €10,000. Is there some other make of car with similar facilities, or should my budget cover the new model? I find when I go into garages, the salespeople (male, no offence) are more interested in selling quickly than discussing and talking it through. Gillian: Changing up three years for €10k sounds too good to be true and so, as the saying goes, it usually is. Without knowing what the cost of the new hybrid model will be and the condition of your current car, it is impossible to work out how much you will need to come up with. But what I can tell you is that your car is well-liked and will hold a good trade-in price. You have a budget of sub-€30k, and if you are looking to go for a new SUV, your current options include the SEAT Ateca and Nissan Qashqai. If you add hybrid to your wishlist, you will need to add more to the budget or hang tight for another while with your Sportage. There is a lot of confusion around pricing for dealers at the minute with new European legislation on CO2 (WLTP). A new Toyota C-HR hybrid starts at just €30,400, so you are not far off it, but that's for the base model and not for the high spec that you are used to. It might not be as roomy as you would like either, although the boot space will fit the golf clubs no problem. Eddie: I'd wait and see what comes up on the Sportage front. If you like the car so much, you run the risk of buying something different just for the sake of it, then ending up comparing your new purchase unfavourably against the Sportage. Believe me, I have seen it happen with other cars and buyers over the years. This seems to be a week for sticking with what you know best. My wife needs to change her car soon. We're due our third child shortly, so we are looking for a spacious car, an SUV or an MPV. Budget of €30,000, annual mileage 30,000km. Seven-seater preferred. We have a 151-reg Opel Insignia from new with 115,000km on the clock. Gillian: Congratulations on baby number three. A seven-seater will give you plenty of comfort and, with your annual kms, a diesel will suit you best. If your Opel Insignia is on top of your €30k budget and you want to go new, your options include a Volkswagen Tiguan Allspace 2.0 dsl, Skoda Kodiaq 2.0 dsl, Peugeot 5008 1.5 dsl and Kia Sorento 2.2 dsl. The 5008 is the least expensive of these, starting at just €32k, but that is for the base Access model. For you, look at the Allure or, even better, the GT Line, which will bring you up to the entry-level price of the other three. If your total budget is €30k, including your trade-in, I suggest looking at a new Citroen Grand C4 SpaceTourer 1.6 dsl or Renault Grand Scenic 1.5 dsl. Both are priced well and will mean plenty of room for your growing family. Eddie: Congratulations from us all. You could go further along the MPV route and buy a fresh Ford S-MAX or even the larger Galaxy, which has loads of room. Just remember that what seems like a lot of space now will shrink when you have five on board, and all the stuff that goes hand-in-hand with three children. And, of course, there is always the old reliable and great-value SEAT Alhambra to take into account. I'm looking at trading in a 151 diesel Ford Focus. I have a cash budget of €15k plus trade-in (approx €10k). I'm looking at switching to a similar size car with a petrol engine. I'm currently doing about 22,000km a year, but I will be moving office and will be doing lower mileage. What would you recommend? Gillian: For a €25k spend on a 5dr petrol hatchback, here are some suggestions. High-spec new model Focus 1.0. The ST-Line is €25,175, so it fits in nicely. Then there is the Mazda3 1.5 Executive SE, priced similarly at €24,795. After that there is the Kia Ceed 1.0 K3, priced around the same again and with some nice spec as standard. But I love this one: the Hyundai i30 1.0 Fastback. It's not a hatchback, but a 5d coupe, and looks sweet on the road. This is where I'd start my search. If you can push the budget a smidgen more, the new Honda Civic is a good one too. You could get the base model Smart spec under budget but for just another €1,250 over budget, the Smart Plus is worth the extra stretch. It will give you Apple CarPlay/Android Auto, rear parking camera, leather steering wheel and gearshift knob and 17in alloys. You have a lot of options available to you, so take some out for a spin and see what suits you most. Eddie: I think the Ford Focus is the current pick of the bunch with the 1-litre petrol that Gillian has just mentioned. I'd follow it with the KIA Ceed and the Honda Civic. I don't drive huge miles. I travel only for work and home and some weekend outings. Generally, it's in the range of 5,000 to 8,000km a year. I was thinking I would go hybrid because my work travel is just 2.5km on a city road. Do you think that fully electric would also be a good option? Budget (including trade-in) is €15k to €20k. Annual mileage is 5,000kms to 8,000km. Need a five-seater. Current car is a VW Jetta 2007 with 200,000km-plus. Gillian: You can certainly go electric or hybrid. Your running costs will most certainly be lower than your Jetta, electric being the most frugal of course. Electric options are sort of limited to the Nissan Leaf and Renault Zoe for your budget, but either would be great buys. Unfortunately, both have had fairly recent new-generation model launches (2017) and your budget won't allow you to get into one of these, but there is nothing wrong with the last of the older models. The Leaf will be easier to find as it sold in bigger numbers. You will pick up a 171/172 plate for under €20k. Do look for the bigger 30KW battery model however. Hybrids offer you extra choices, including the Toyota Auris and Lexus CT 200h. These have been around since 2011, so you will find one to fit the lower end of your budget if you want to save yourself some euro. Eddie: Looks like you should get a fairly fresh Leaf. Hybrid option is the Auris.   We love getting your enquiries and try to reply to as many as possible here or via email. The ones dealt with here often represent a cross section of individual questions. You can help us help you with our free, independent, advice by including the following in your queries: * Budget (including trade-in). * Annual mileage (in kms). * Size of car required (number of seats). * Present car (make, model, year and mileage) if relevant. ecunningham@independent.ie Indo Motoring 
