cars
{ Aidan Timmons and Eddie Cunningham 
    October 28 2014 03:49 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/what-car-has-best-seats-for-my-bad-back-im-buying-a-car-with-my-parents-advice-30699710.html }
I am a large 54-year-old, 6ft 1ins, 16-stone man who struggles with back and neck disc pain. My driving is mostly local (six/eight, miles to nearest towns). For years I drove an old Nissan Almera, which only added to my back troubles. I am looking for a suitable vehicle, and have €8/9,000 cash to spend. I am looking at some vehicles that I feel may suit me for size, durability and value, taking into account my rural setting, poor roads and I need some boot space. I'm looking at Citreon Berlingo Multispace, Renault Kangoo and Fiat Multispace. I like the idea of the space, sliding side door and good boot space. I would welcome any thoughts and ideas you may have. (I'm not keen on the Qashqai; the seating position does not suit). Eddie: AS a fellow back-sufferer I know exactly where you are coming from so I'll deal with that part of your question and Aidan will outline a couple of cars - in addition to the ones you mention - that might suit you too. I've driven many a car and always noted how good or bad the seats were. I'm afraid like most things in this life you often get what you pay for but I will tell you this: There are two stages in making your back a happier passenger (they are never really happy those backs are they?) The first is to get yourself into a car that does not involve crouching or twisting your torso as you do so - or as you are getting out. That sounds simplistic but it is based on experience. I'm afraid you just have to do the leg work and see which car you find easiest to get into - forget the seats for the moment. Generally speaking it is easier to get into a car that has higher seats. It means you can ease in your body without having to overly strain any part of it. You say you have a large frame, so a car with a door that swings wide open (as near to 90-degrees as possible) is an absolute must. I know you mention a budget but look, don't let the money determine too much. If something costs a couple of grand more and suits you, think of the difference it would make. So I can only advise you to go through a good few cars just to get that part right. Secondly, seats are so hit and miss it is impossible to say what is good or bad for you on an individual basis. One seat might have great lower lumbar strength but its thigh support might be squashy. Your back needs both. Some cars have adjustable lumbar supports - they can be great. I urge you to look out for them. Now I'm going to advocate you buy yourself one, if not two, supports that you can bring with you or, preferably, leave in the car. I've got one which my daughter spent €120 on a couple of Christmases ago and I use it at my desk to support the lower lumbar area. When my back is bad I bring it with me in the car and sit on it. Yes sit on it because it supports my thighs. And I have another which someone got me and I use that behind my back in the car if I'm in pain or the seatback is soft and doesn't have good lumbar support/adjustability. Remember your posture when driving is important too. If you are stooped forwards or slumped, it can have a detrimental effect and put added strain on the muscles trying to keep your back upright. So you need to check you can adjust both the steering wheel and the driver's seat. My point is - don't rely on the car to give you 100pc support. You need to have one or two subs on standby. The cars you are thinking about are well worth consideration for the reasons you mention. I don't remember criticising their seats but I haven't driven one recently. I think Aidan has a couple more to suggest. Do let us know how you get on. Aidan: For what it's worth I think you might find a suitable level of comfort and practicality from two slightly peculiar products from within the Volkswagen group. The first is the VW Golf Plus. The old model has been around since 2005 and despite it being quite rare, you should find one to suit your budget. It's got a taller seating position than the Golf and offers slightly more practicality. Then there is the Skoda Roomster, which generally isn't chosen for its styling but rather because it combines an upright and comfortable seating position with practicality in a package that costs around the same as a Skoda Fabia. They're not your average choices but they're worth considering.   I'm buying a car with my parents. They want a 2010 Corolla but I think an Avensis might be better. We cover 12,000km a year. Should we consider a diesel car? They already drive an Avensis and have driven Toyotas for 25 years. They want something reliable. Are there any other cars you would recommend instead? Aidan: I'm going to side with your parents' choice here, Vincent. The reason is that in August 2010 the Toyota Corolla petrol engine changed from 1.4 litres to 1.33. This isn't particularly significant in terms of power but the new and slightly smaller capacity engine produces less CO2 and is therefore in a lower tax band. The reduction is pretty noticeable too. The 1.4 costs €570 to tax per year and the 1.33 is just €280. What's more, in comparison to the Avensis your budget will just about get you into one of the lower tax 2010 Corollas whereas you will most likely have to settle for a 2009 Avensis Aura model. There is nothing wrong with the Avensis by any means but I think your money goes further in the Corolla; and in any case it's not exactly a huge step backwards in terms of size or practicality. If you can stretch another thousand you should find yourself in a Luna model which won't seem as Spartan inside as the entry level Terra spec. Another plus for the Corolla is that it wasn't available in the UK so there won't be any cheap imports capable of devaluing it. As far as requiring a diesel is concerned, it's not just the annual mileage you need to consider but also the conditions under which that mileage is consumed. If the car spends most of its time covering short distances then I would stick with petrol. The 1.4 D4D engine is great but it commands a premium of at least €1,500 to €2,000 over the petrol equivalent and I'm not entirely certain you would see the benefit of this additional outlay. As for other models to consider, your parents already drive a Toyota and have done for 25 years, I see no reason to change now. The recent spate of recalls doesn't worry me greatly as the manner in which Toyota dealt with the errors in their fleet was commendable. Sometimes things go wrong, particular with modern cars, but it's how they are resolved that really counts. Eddie: You don't need diesel. And the Corolla looks to me like it suits ye down to the ground. There is a lot of cabin room in the Corolla; I think it is something people often overlook. Irish Independent 
