cars
{ LOUISE McBRIDE 
    December 02 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/driving-up-mammoth-bills-26335855.html }
It hasn't been an easy year for drivers. First came the shock announcement that learner drivers on their second provisional licence who drive unaccompanied after June 30, 2008 will be breaking the law. And this Wednesday, the Minister for Finance, Brian Cowen, is expected to announce a new vehicle registration tax (VRT) system which will penalise many of those who buy cars that are not environmentally friendly. VRT is paid when you first register a car in Ireland or if you import a used car from abroad. VRT can cost almost a third of the price of a new car. The amount paid depends on the size of your car's engine. You currently pay 22.5 per cent VRT if your car's engine size is less than 1400cc, 25 per cent if it is between 1401cc and 1900cc, and 30 per cent if it's 1900cc or more. Different rates of VRT apply to certain vehicles, such as motorcycles, tractors, minibuses and electric cars. Under the new system, which is expected to come into effect this July, those who buy cars which emit high levels of carbon dioxide emissions will pay more VRT than those who buy environmentally friendly cars. If it goes ahead, the new system will penalise most owners of 'gas guzzlers' -- that is, high-performance cars or sport utility vehicles (SUVs). However, members of the anti-SUV brigade shouldn't be too smug. The new system -- if it goes ahead -- is also likely to hit buyers of smaller older cars, as well as those with modest family cars. "You'll often get more pollution coming out of an older 1.3 litre car than a modern one," said Conor Faughnan, the public affairs manager with the Automobile Association of Ireland. "Older cars will therefore lose out under this new system as they will become more expensive." As passenger cars generate over a tenth of man-made carbon dioxide in Europe, something has to done to reduce the environmental damage caused by cars. But will the new system have any impact? "Instead of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, this new system will encourage people to hold onto their cars for longer periods of time," said Cyril McHugh, chief executive of the Society of the Irish Motor Industry (SIMI), which represents car dealers and others in the car industry. "It will also shove people into buying used imports -- that is, cars which are usually about six-years-old and with higher carbon dioxide emissions. However, there's an advantage for owners of diesel cars as these cars usually have lower carbon dioxide emissions." Sales of SUVs have tripled in the last eight years. In 1999, when SUVs were relatively unheard of, about 5,000 of these cars were sold. Over the last year, about 16,000 SUVs were sold, according to McHugh. The new system could push sales of SUVs down. But owners of large family, or high-performance, cars have long swallowed the bitter pill of higher charges. Take the BMW 325i SE, a four-door car with a 2996cc engine. The annual road tax on a car with an engine of this size is €1,109. The road tax on a smaller car with an engine size of less than 1,000cc is only €151. Car insurance is also steeper. A 30-year-old Dublin man with a clean driving record and full licence could pay €951 to insure a 2.3 litre Mazda CX-7, according to the online insurance broker, www.123.ie. If the same man insured a 1.5 litre Nissan Almera, his insurance could be about €400. Over the last year, drivers have become all too familiar with the racheting prices of the petrol pump. Petrol costs dig deep into the pockets of SUV owners. "A typical 1.4 litre family car drives about 16,000 kilometres a year," said Faughnan. "This will cost the owner about €1,770 a year in fuel. The owner of a larger family car or SUV will pay about €2,650 a year for fuel." Drivers might be more tempted to reduce their fuel usage for economic, rather than environmental reasons. "The most obvious way to reduce the cost of owning a car is to cut back on your driving," said Faughnan. An aggressive driving style uses up more fuel. Take any unnecessary weight, such as golf clubs or roof racks, from your car. Consider turning off the air conditioning as this can increase your fuel consumption by about 10 per cent." Faughnan also advised drivers to check that the tyre pressure on their cars is correct. "If it isn't, it will significantly increase your fuel costs," he said. The benefits of any steps taken to reduce fuel consumption are obviously magnified for the owners of larger and thirstier vehicles. But simple steps can also be taken to reduce the costs of owning a car. Take insurance. Married men don't only live longer than single men, they can also get cheaper insurance. "If you put your wife on your car insurance policy as your spouse, your insurance might come down," said Faughnan. There are some charges which drivers simply cannot avoid. If you park your car in Dublin city centre, you could pay up to €2.70 an hour for on-street parking. If you park your car in Dublin Airport's short-term car park for more than an hour, you pay €4.50 an hour. The maximum daily charge is €40. If you park your car in the long-term car park, you pay €9.50 a day. If visiting a relative in the Adelaide & Meath Hospital in Tallaght, Dublin, you'll pay €2.30 if you park for between 20 minutes and an hour, €4.65 for two hours, and €6.35 for between two and 24 hours. If parking in St Vincent's University Hospital, Dublin, you'll pay €2.30 an hour, or €13.20 for between eight and 24 hours. If you park illegally or don't pay the required parking fee, you could be hit with hefty clamping charges. In Dublin city, you usually pay €80 to get a clamp released from your car. If you don't pay the clamp fee, your car will be towed away. As the towing charge is €80, you'll pay at least €160 to get your car back, depending on how long it takes you to pick up your car from the pound. The daily pound charge is €35. In Galway city, you'll pay between €20 and €80 to get a clamp released from your car. You can be fined up to €120 if you fail to obey traffic directions given by a garda or if you illegally park in a disabled person's bay. You can be fined up to €90 for driving on the Luas line. With fines like that, those four wheels of yours could easily be your priciest, as well as your prized, possession. 
