cars
{  
    March 08 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/news/inquest-told-of-collision-that-claimed-two-lives-27171832.html }
The inquest into the death of a young Tullow man, who died after he lost control of his vehicle, was held at Carlow Coroner's Court last week. Jamie Coady (21), 15 Shilleagh Grove, Tullow died following a two car collision on November 25, 2006. A back seat passenger in the other car, Mona Martin (59), Ballingale, Ferns, Co. Wexford, also died in the accident A deposition from motorist Mary Murphy, who was driving a car along the N80 on November 25, was read by Inspector Gerry Redmond. She outlined how she had been travelling to Tullow at about 9.20am. At Adristan she saw a silver car coming towards her at an angle with the front of the car towards the middle of the road and the back towards the ditch. The car was going sideways as it passed her. She heard a bang and knew there was a car travelling behind her. Inspector Gerry Redmond also read the deposition of Christina Farrell, the driver of the other car, into court. She outlined how she had left home with her mother Ann and collected her aunt, Mona Martin. They were going to Dublin. Christina was driving while her mother Ann was a front seat passenger. Mona was in the rear seat behind the passenger seat. Christina saw a silver car coming sideways towards her and the front of the car was facing the ditch on her side of the road. It continued coming at her side on and the passenger side of the silver car hit her car head on. The impact drove in the dash board of her car on top of her and her mother and the back of the car seemed to bounce. She received fractured ribs to her left side while she also fractured her right collar bone in the accident. She also suffered from cardiac arythemia and had contusions to her lungs. The deposition of her mother, Ann Farrell, was also read into the court by Inspector Redmond. She said she heard Christina scream 'Jesus Christ where did he come from?' and heard a bang. Ann said she ended up on the floor of the car with her knees up against her chest. She was brought to the hospital. 'I don't remember much after that. I woke up about two weeks later.' She suffered extensive internal injuries and her bowel was severed in the accident. The deposition of Martin Coady, the father of Jamie, was also read into court by Inspector Redmond. He said on Friday night, the night before the accident, he had gone to the pub with Jamie at 8.30pm. They stayed there until 10.30pm. Jamie, he said, then went into Carlow town with his cousin. He arrived home shortly after 1am. At 9.10am the following morning Jamie had come downstairs and said he had to go to Wexford. He didn't eat a breakfast. Garda Aidan McDermott said he attended the accident at Ardristan at 9.20am. Ms. Farrell's car was facing North on the correct side of the road. All three occupants were trapped in the car and had to be cut free. The silver car, driven by Jamie Coady, was on the inside of Ms. Farrell's car facing in the opposite direction. Sgt. Donal Prendergast, a Public Service Vehicle Inspector, said he had examined both cars. Jamie's car was a silver and black Toyato Glanza. In pre accident condition the steering was good and the brakes were servicable. The main impact was to the rear side front of the car which was forced in and there was extensive damage. Ms. Farrell's car was a Seat Ibiza. The front of the car was forced back considerably and there was extensive damage. He said in his opinion given the nature of the damage to the vehicles Ms. Farrell had been travelling along the road when she was struck by Jamie Coady's car which had lost control moving side ways. Jamie, he said, was not wearing a seat belt. He lost tractional control and rotated 90 degrees and continued on a longitudinal path until he collided with Ms. Farrell's car. 'The most likely reason for the driver to lose control was for him to be driving at a speed inappropriate to the conditions of the road at the time. There were no contributing factors to the accident such as road or weather conditions.' Pathologist Dr. Maurice Murphy said he had performed a post mortem on Jamie Coady and found he had a blood alcohol level of 161mg per 100ml of blood. He said he died as a result of multiple injuries consistent with a road traffic accident. The jury of five women and one man recorded a verdict in accordance with the medical evidence and county coroner, Dr. Brendan Doyle, returned a verdict in accordance with this. He extended his sympathy to the Coady family on the tragic death of Jamie. He also extended sympathy to the family of Mona Martin and thanked her family for coming to the inquest. 
