cars
{  
    November 24 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/how-many-irish-cars-will-survive-compulsory-testing-26133010.html }
Compulsory car testing begins on January 4. Initially for cars of eight years and older, it will apply within a couple of years to all cars aged four and over. Should you be worried? And what can you do to make it easier to pass? Motoring Correspondent Eddie Cunningham reports It is time to take a long look at that car of yours. It may have helped rear the children, move house and get you places you wanted to see, but if you want to hold onto it, you are going to have to put the foot down in a different way. You are going to have to decide if it is fit to pass the car test next year. It is really up to you. Hundreds of thousands of people who own cars eight years and older face a similar prospect. As things now stand it will come as an unpleasant surprise for many. Because, all the indications are, most people are in real danger of not being properly prepared. That is certainly the message coming back from centres which tested cars on a pilot basis this autumn. If you were to bet on the dead certs that will fail your car, then put your money on headlights and brakes. They are the big sinners. In the context of more grievous mortal sins such as dangerous steering or wrecked chassis, they might better be described as venial misdemeanours. But to get into the Promised Land of Car Testing your four-wheel friend has to be in first class condition. It may involve a baptism of fire but there is no other way. On the other hand there is no need to countenance fire and brimstone, no need to panic or make rash decisions. In most cases, it just means attending as much to the detail as the entirety. Little things are invoking the thumbs down: headlights that are off-beam, cracked light clusters. The sort of non-emergency things you live with on a must-get-that-fixed-sometime basis. But they really stack up against you when the cold light of testing is switched full glare on your pride and joy. Wipe them out and the risk of failure is not nearly so high. You can still fail, of course. And many will, simply because significant numbers of cars are too far gone to warrant expenditure or effort. I'm talking serious banger here. And I do know what I'm talking about because I drove them for years. There is now no escape if your car is in a genuinely bad way or is dangerous. At the other extreme, it may appear overly harsh to fail a car on relatively small matters such as a cracked or damaged light. But when you consider what the test is really all about, it soon becomes apparent that, however unpalatable, it has to be done properly or not at all. Anything less than a thorough check-up could be construed as being an Irish solution to an Irish problem. Cars have to be in such condition they stand a greater chance of either avoiding, averting or not mechanically contributing to the already high risk of an accident on our roads. We have managed to dodge EU requirements for testing for years. Now we have to face the music. But it bears repeating that, in the vast majority of cases, there is NO reason to be overly concerned. A little attention to those details and, hopefully, a few pound well spent will, in most cases, clear your car for test. Bear in mind, the age of your car does not matter that much but the condition does. If you have a 14-year-old car in good condition with brakes, lights and suspension in good order you should not have to worry. If it is well tuned up you will not fail the emissions test, as there are different criteria for age of engine etc. Just make sure the wipers are in perfect working order. Otherwise you'll fail and have to go away and get them fixed/renewed before coming back for a re-test. So spend one good hour now going around, and through, your car. Tick off little things that need to be done. Be ruthless. That way you may well err on the side of caution rather than chance. Then get your mechanic or garage (please get someone you trust and know) to put things right. For some, a tough decision is in the offing: to test or trade-in? It is really difficult to advise. So much comes into it: financial situation, availability of money, need for car, cost of necessary repairs, cost of trading up. Ultimately it may be best to get your local garage to have a good look. Ask them what it would cost to ensure your car passes the test. If he/she says it will cost hundreds of pounds to put it right you must balance that against the value of the car. And ask yourself how long before you have to do the inevitable anyway and will it stop at such outlay? Is it likely to scrape by the test and end up costing more and more within 18 months to keep it going? The chances are if it is a borderline case in your estimation or that of your garage man, the test computer will detect flaws that will fail it. It may well be that a modest sum will let you drive carefree until your next test in two years time. But you won't know until you ask. And the time has come to start looking at your car like you've never looked at it before. YOUR CHECK LIST Here is an extensive guide to what they will be inspecting: Brakes: Service bake pedal, parking brake performance, service brake operation (inspection inside the vehicle), mechanical brake hand lever, service brake performance, service brake imbalance, parking brake imbalance, brake fluid, brake lines/hoses, brake wheel units, mechanical brake components, master cylinders/ servo/ valves/ connections. Exhaust/emissions: Exhaust smoke (diesel), exhaust CO/HC/Lambda, exhaust system/noise. Wheels/tyres: Tyre condition, tyre specification, tyre tread, wheels, spare wheel and carrier, wheel bearings. Lights: Stop lamps, rear lamps and registration plate lamps, indicators, side lamps, headlamp condition, headlamp aim, lamp condition, lamp aim, reflectors. Steering/suspensions: Wheel play, front wheel side slip, rear wheel side slip, front axle suspension performance, rear axle suspension performance, steering linkage, front springs, front suspension, shock absorber condition, rear suspension, rear springs. Chassis/underbody: Doors, locks and anti-theft devices, bodywork, chassis/underbody. Electrics: Horn, electrical system. Glass/mirrors: Windscreen wipers and washers, glass, rear view mirror(s). Transmission: All areas. Fuel system. Seats, speedometer, safety belts.  Miscellaneous: Registration plates, adaptations for disabled drivers, towing bracket/coupling. 
