cars
{  
    October 24 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/cars-are-not-toys-judge-warns-in-car-park-doughnutting-case-27529163.html }
"Perhaps the message might get through to these young people that motor cars are not toys and should be driven in a responsible manner," Judge McGuinness said.David Duffy, Joe McDonnell Drive, Cranmore, was charged with dangerous driving on February 5th last at Dunnes Stores Car Park, Wine Street, Sligo.Inspector Paul Cuttle prosecuted. Mr. Edmund Henry, Solr, defended. Gar "Perhaps the message might get through to these young people that motor cars are not toys and should be driven in a responsible manner," Judge McGuinness said. David Duffy, Joe McDonnell Drive, Cranmore, was charged with dangerous driving on February 5th last at Dunnes Stores Car Park, Wine Street, Sligo. Inspector Paul Cuttle prosecuted. Mr. Edmund Henry, Solr, defended. Garda M. P. Murphy told the court that on February 5th last he and another Garda were on the beat at 00:55 hours at Adelaide Street. They heard excessively loud noise and tyres screeching. In the Dunnes Stores car park from behind a wall they observed the wheels of a car spinning and the car turning 360 degrees very dangerously. There were people in the car park at the time. Judge McGuinness told Mr. Henry that he would not reduce the charge under any circumstances. Garda Murphy said that there were rubber marks on the ground where the car pulled handbrake turns. In answer to Mr. Henry, Garda Murphy said it was after 12 midnight. He disagreed with Mr. Henry that it was a quiet time in the car park. He said a lot of cars used the exit, and came in and out to Tesco, which was open for 24 hours. Garda Murphy said the first thing that drew the gardai’s attention was the sound of an engine revving. They then went to a position behind a wall where they had a full view of the car. It was a white Toyota Glanza. The wheels revved up and the car spun around in a 360-degree circle. Mr. Henry said that his client’s instructions were that this did not happen. Mr. Henry said the engine might have revved because of the engine and the type of exhaust system. "He will say he did not engage in a 360-degree maneuver in the car park," Mr. Henry told the court. Garda Murphy: "I disagree." David Duffy said he was at the Tesco car park in Wine Street. Mr. Henry pointed out that the summons stated the offence took place at Dunnes Stores. He pointed they were separate car parks but they were linked. David Duffy said his car was facing toward a wall looking over at Tesco. "I paid a lot of money for the car and I would have more respect for it than to do that," he told the court. He explained that there was a safety mechanism on the car and it made a noise. That was the only noise that came out of his car. There was traction control so that, if it was wet, the wheels wouldn’t spin. It was damp at the time. Duffy said he was 100% sure he did not take part in a handbrake turn. He also said the garda asked to search him. Inspector: "I think the term is called dough-nutting." Duffy: "It’s not possible for my car to do doughnutting." As the defendant walked down from the witness box after giving his evidence, Garda Murphy, who was standing in the courtroom, said the defendant had called him a liar. "As he walked by Garda Murphy, he called him a liar," Inspector Cuttle explained to Judge McGuinness. Duffy, standing in the courtroom, said he was "very sorry." Judge McGuinness told the defendant to be careful or he would be jailed for contempt. He fined the defendant ?300 and disqualified him from driving for six months. 
