cars
{  
    March 27 2009 11:31 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/driver-fled-checkpoint-across-field-after-assaulting-gardai-27563586.html }
Sligo Circuit Court heard how a 38-years old man from Gurteen fled the scene of a garda checkpoint at Ragwood after a scuffle with a female garda in which both ended up in a drain, with the garda's nose and mouth under water. Dean McWeeney, Moygara, Gurteen, was sentenced to two years in prison for assaulting Garda Breege Conaghan causing her harm on March 25th 2007 at Ragwood, Gurteen. He was sentenced for three months in prison for climbing a gate and fleeing the scene of a garda checkpoint with the intention of frustrating a prosecution. He was sentenced to one year for assaulting Garda Derek Lynott, and was fined €50 for using a vehicle without tax. Judge Kennedy ordered that all the sentences were concurrent from the day of the court and suspended in their entirety on condition that the defendant keeps the peace for the next two years. Prosecuting counsel Ms. Dara Foynes, instructed by State Solicitor Mr. Hugh Sheridan, told the court that the gardai were on duty in Ragwood, Gurteen, in the official unmarked car on "Operation Surround" detecting road traffic offences. At 3:30 a.m. the defendant's car approached and the gardai got out and put on their fluorescent jackets and caps. Garda Derek Lynott detected a smell of intoxicating liquor from the defendant's breath and he failed a breath test. McWeeney was asked to step out of the car. He was arrested and because he seemed uneasy he was handcuffed. He reacted very vigorously to handcuffs having been put on him. The gardai were trying to restrain him and he was resisting. He tried to get over a gate and on a second occasion he became very abusive. Garda Conaghan fell into a drain with the accused. She felt her face was half submerged and McWeeney was muttering things to her. The defendant escaped into a field and it was too dark to go after him. Some time later he rang the gardai looking for his car. He made a statement later in the day and demanded his car, saying he had a business meeting to go to. Sergeant Martin Donoghue told the court that gardai were on duty in the official unmarked patrol car. The defendant's car came along. The tax was out on the car. Garda Lynott noted it swerved from side to side. McWeeney seemed to be very uneasy when told the result of the alcohol test. When told he would be handcuffed, he said, "I'm not gong anywhere with ye," and he started to run. Garda Lynott caught a grip of him and the defendant and Garda Conaghan fell to the ground. Garda Lynott went on the ground and tried to handcuff him but the defendant was flailing his arms. McWeeney tried to get over a gate and get into his car. He said, "I am going nowhere but home. I'm going to no garda station." He shouted, "Ye bastards of guards assaulted me and ye won't get away with it." Garda Conaghan was traumatised by what happened. He was kicking her aggressively and she was lying on top of his legs to try to stop him kicking. Ms Foynes told the court that Garda Conaghan fell into a drain and the defendant fell in on top of her, and half her head was under water. Her nose and mouth were under water, she couldn't breath and she was very scared. The court heard that McWeeney, in a statement made on the same day of the incident, said that at about 12:30 a.m. he decided to go for a few pints to the Hill Hotel in Gurteen. He was on his own and chatted to a few different people. He thought he had four or five pints of Guinness. At about 2:30 a.m. winter time, or 3:30 a.m. summer time, he left the hotel and decided to go to the "Humble Spud" for chips. He drove his car, a blue BMW, down to the chipper but there was a crowd outside so he decided to go home. He said that about half a mile out the Ballaghaderreen Road, he had to turn down a narrow road to the left. About half a mile down this road, he came on the headlights of a car. He waited at a wide spot on the road. There was no sign of this car to come towards him so he went on down. He pulled in to the side and he saw a person getting out of this car wearing a yellow reflectorised jacket. This person came over to the driver's window of is car. The person asked him who he was and for his driving licence and the defendant knew then he was a guard. He failed a breath test and the guard told him he was being arrested for drunken driving. "I was out of my car at this stage and I panicked," McWeeney stated. He "decided to run for it down the road back toward Gurteen." He tripped and fell to the ground on the roadway. One of the guards was on top of him. He struggled with the guard as all he wanted to do was get away. He needed his licence for his work. He remembered at one stage being on a bank on the side of the road. He really lost his temper then. One of the guards was struggling with him and he rolled into a drain. The first time he realised that one of the guards was female was when he was rolling around in the bank. It was his intention to break free but not to hurt anyone. He remembered trying to break free from the guards and flailing with his arms and hands. He remembered hitting out at the guards but it was not his intention to hurt them. Once he got away from the guards he walked across a field and back onto the road and home. He said he was very sorry for all of them and the only reason he did what he did was to keep his licence. The court heard that on April 11th 2007, McWeeney made an additional statement in which he said the statement he made on March 25th was made with "undue influence" plus the fact that he had no sleep since since the previous Saturday morning at 6 a.m., and he was tired. When he pulled in at the end of the road, he saw a car about half a mile in. He waited at a large gateway for it to pass. When it did not come after a minute, he went on his way. When he got close, the car had the road blocked. It was a blue/black car. Next thing, a man with a yellow high-visibility vest came to his driver's door. There was somebody else over at the other side of the car with a yellow jacket and something like a torch with a dim light. The defendant stated that, fearing he was going to be attacked, he ran. He didn't remember having been asked to blow into any machine. He remembered someone getting him by the neck in a headlock. He then ran for his life. He jumped over a ditch. He didn't remember falling down into a drain or a ditch. Excerpts from a medical report in relation to Garda Conaghan's attendance at the Emergency Department of Sligo General Hospital were also read to the court. Sergeant Donoghue told the court that McWeeney was single, and worked in Dublin for five days. "I believe he is now down to two days," said Sgt.Donoghue, who added that the defendant had no previous convictions. Mr. Barnes, counsel for McWeeney, (instructed by Mr. Declan O'Callaghan, Solr), told the court that his client, a road engineer, was "mortgaged to the hilt" and his "credit cards were maxxed out." He had a family of two children, aged 8 and 10, with a partner. Mr. Barnes pointed out that he came to no adverse attention before or after this incident. "He presents to me as a man who is riddled with remorse, not alone for himself but for what he brought on the garda," Mr. Barnes said, who added that an offer of compensation of €5,000 was made to the injured party and he was told there was no interest in such. He had indicated he wished to make a contribution to charity. Sergeant Donoghue, answering to Mr. Barnes in relation to the possibility of the defendant reoffending, said he would like to think that there wouldn't be a recurrence of this. "This is the first time he has come to our notice and I would be very hopeful he wouldn't reoffend," said Sergeant Donoghue, agreeing the defendant's demeanor was "one of contrition." When Judge Kennedy saw the defendant in court, he remarked that he was a big, very robust man, over six feet. Judge Kennedy asked if he was a university graduate, to which Mr. Barnes replied that he was "a mechanic originally." Dean McWeeney told the court he was very sorry for what happened. "I can't believe I was capable of dong something like that," he said. "I totally regret it. I am totally disgusted." Asked by Mr. Barnes about his feelings of disgust. McWeeney said that every morning he got up it was "as bad as when it started." "I think about it several times during the day," he said. Asked if he was a habitual drinker, he said drink "does nothing for me." He was a part-time car mechanic and he had every car from the 1920s to the 1980s. Cars were his passion. He said he went to the Hill Hotel to pay someone and he took some drinks and "got into a car and went up the road." He said it was a stupid thing to get into the car and drive. "I will never put myself in that position again," he said. He added: "I have not only let myself down but seven or eight people who rely on me." He said he was mortgaged to the hilt. "I have the same bills now as when there was plenty of money," he said. The court was told that he had €2,000 in court for the Garda Benevolent Fund. He had to borrow this money. "I am asking the court to show mercy. I can promise that you will not see me in court again," he said. He said he had paid arrears of tax but had no certificate. He added that he didn't drink alcohol other than, maybe, a glass of wine with a meal. "I am not into drink. It's cars I am into," he said. Mr. Barnes said it was a one-off incident that was completely out of character. A reference from a priest was handed into court. Mr. Barnes: "There are hopeful signs this is not a man who will reoffend - ever." In giving sentence, Judge Anthony Kennedy said McWeeney had the physique and temperament to throw his weight about and take on gardai at all hours of the night. He rang the garda station hours later to get his car back. The judge said that having made an incriminatory statement on April 11th, 2007, he retracted that and went on the offensive, alleging he had been attacked and got into a headlock and ran for his life. The judge added that, bizarrely, on the day of the court case, he retracted that. "It would make one wonder is he the full shilling or not?" the judge said. He added that mitigating evidence came from Sergeant Donoghue, all magnanimously in favour of the accused. 
