cars
{ EDDIE CUNNINGHAM 
    January 05 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/motorists-become-the-shock-absorbers-26125454.html }
WE ARE finally waking up to what car testing really means. Yesterday's inauguration of formal car testing was bound to be a short, sharp shock considering we had postponed the inevitable for years and years. There is every likelihood that tens of thousands of cars will fail this test at least the first time around. How they fare at second and subsequent tests will determine the ultimate number put off the road. If we take it that somewhere around 19pc is anticipated on the basis of what has happened in other countries in the first flush of car testing, then we are looking at upwards of 80,000 cars aged eight years and older biting the dust. The project is based on an anticipated 40,000 being eligible for testing. On the face of it the figures are frightening on two levels. Frightening for their owners who must countenance the prospect of digging deep into financial reserves or borrowing to acquire safer mobility. The unfortunate thing about car testing is that, as the government has acknowledged in its easing of the stringent standards needed to pass, it tends to hit the less financially well off. And very often those same owners sorely need a car to get to work or simply to maintain some semblance of social contact. A few thousand pounds for a ``newer'' car represents a significant burden for them. Unfortunately, there is no way out of it. People with cars that consistently fail subsequent tests will have to make the tough decision to buy new or newer. In the long run it will make more financial sense; there is no point in throwing good money after bad into a banger that can't get over the testing hurdles. The second frightening feature of the number likely to fail is the sheer danger to life and limb they represent. Not just to their owners and occupants, but to other road users. It is terrifying, is it not, to think that even 10,000 not to mention a possible 80,000 cars being driven around Ireland as you read this are not fit to be on the road? To put it more bluntly thousands of cars have something so wrong with them they would not be able to perform a possible life saving function (such as braking properly) in an emergency situation. And that, without dramatising it, is, or at least should be, the overriding argument for introducing car testing. If it reduces the risk of people being injured or killed then few would argue with the harsh reality foisted on us yesterday. But it is going to take some time. If there are that many unsafe cars out there, we must assume there are at least as many more on the downward slope. Owning a secondhand car and I speak as one who has owned and driven vehicles barely worthy of the name always had its responsibilities. The big difference now is the law makes sure you take them more seriously than ever before. And that is why yesterday marked such a giant leap for motoring in Ireland. We have taken some control of our own destiny. We determine what cars we drive and meet on our roads. It will take quite a while before we see the benefits. We can hope for a gradual improvement as really dangerous vehicles are banished and owners of used cars realise what it takes to keep a car on the road. In the short term it is too early to read too much into yesterday's first-day figures. It is also too early to detect any sort of trend. And it is definitely too early for owners of used cars to start panicking. A thoroughly good garage service/repair should see a lot of cars through. If that is not sufficient, then owners have to ask if they want a car that is going to be potentially an unsafe car on the roads. It is a question which none of us has ever had to confront before. We have managed to make do. We have never had to meet standards; never had to face the cold, clinical assessment of a hi-tech system. How many of us have said we'd get such-and-such looked at the next time? Sure, it'll do, last as many days as nights? Mea culpa. But a new era dawned when the first cars rolled into the test lanes yesterday. It is one we will increasingly have to answer as our perceptions change radically of what we want our cars to be.  And then we need to start thinking about how we want our drivers and roads to be. I think we may have a few more rude awakenings waiting for us. 
