cars
{  
    December 15 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/wholly-unsafe-to-convict-driver-who-claimed-garda-shouted-at-her-off-duty-27669923.html }
JUDGE DONNCHADH O Buachalla said it would be 'wholly unsafe' to convict a young woman driver who told Wexford District Court that a Garda Sergeant shouted at her as she attempted to park her car after a driving lesson. JUDGE DONNCHADH O Buachalla said it would be 'wholly unsafe' to convict a young woman driver who told Wexford District Court that a Garda Sergeant shouted at her as she attempted to park her car after a driving lesson.
Before the court was Siobhan Armstrong of Flat 1, Wren's Nest, Commercial Quay, who was cleared of causing an obstruction and failing to wear a safety belt at Church Lane car park on May 20, 1999.
Sergeant Pat Geoghegan, who brought the prosecutions, said he was driving his private vehicle through the car park at 10.03 p.m. and discovered that his exit onto the quay was blocked by a Ford Fiesta.
At 10.05 by which time other vehicles had pulled in behind him, he sounded his horn but got no response. He then got out of his jeep and approached the female driver. She said she was going to move. The other cars behind him had reversed back out.
Leave alone
At this point, another female got into the front passenger seat of the Ford Fiesta. He approached again and informed the driver she was obstructing traffic and she told him she would go in a minute, he said. The female passenger asked him to leave the girl alone, that she was only a learner driver.
They eventually pulled off at 10.09 p.m. In total, she had obstructed traffic at the exit of the car park for six minutes. He also pointed out to her that she was not wearing a seat belt, he said.
In response to Ms. Armstrong's solicitor, Michael Lannigan, the sergeant said he was not wearing a leather jacket that night. He disagreed that she told him she was waiting to pull in to a car parking space that another person was pulling out of. 'She said, I will go now,' he pointed out.
He said he had sounded the horn on only one occasion and disagreed that other cars were able to get around the car. She was completely obstructing traffic, he told the solicitor.
Sergeant Geoghegan denied that he had shouted at Ms. Armstrong - 'How long does it take you to park a car?' He said he was in full garda uniform at the time.
He did not accept that it was possible Ms. Armstrong had become nervous and stalled because someone was beeping behind her. He was behind for at least two minutes before he approached her, he said.
The sergeant said it was his impression that Ms. Armstrong was waiting for someone to come out and she didn't care that she was obstructing other traffic. It was a Friday night and this was an area beside a busy pub.
Ms. Armstrong told the court she lived above the Wren's Nest. She had the car about four weeks at the time of the incident. Her friend, Mary Murray, had taken her out for a driving lesson.She was attempting to park her car by the railing so she could keep an eye on it from her apartment.
Her friend got into her own car which was parked by the railing with the intention of moving out and letting her have the space. She heard a beep. A few cars went around her.
Shouting
She heard a rap on the window and someone shouting 'how long does it take you to park a car'. She didn't notice what he was wearing apart from a black leather jacket. The person said he was giving her two minutes to park.
She went to start the car and she couldn't. Her legs were shaking. Her friend arrived back and told her to calm down. The man rapped on the window again. This time, she noticed his blue shirt and garda tie. He said he was giving her two minutes to park the car.
She insisted it was a Thursday night and not Friday when it happened because she remembered going to the Garda Station the next day to produce her documents as requested. She had L-plates up on the car.
In response to Inspector Sheehan, she said her friend told Sergeant Geogheghan that she was learning to drive and he replied that he wasn't talking to her. She didn't know he was a garda until the second time. Up to that, she thought it was someone who had drink taken.
Inspector Sheehan asked her was she really suggesting that Sergeant Geoghegan, a member of the gardai for twenty years, was roaring and shouting.
At this point, her solicitor interjected to say that he was very constrained because of an Act. If the Inspector wished to provoke his client into saying other things, then he would have to re-examine her on those matters.
He had attempted to keep within the constraints on him under an Act which he didn't want to refer to by its full title. He was sure the Inspector knew what he was referring to.
When the cross-examination resumed, Ms. Armstrong said she distinctly remembered a blue van going by her on the left side and also other cars passing by her.
Upset and flustered
Mary Murray also recalled it was a Thursday night and said when she got back into Ms. Armstrong's car, she noticed she was upset and flustered. She noticed a man walking away from the car. She asked her what had happened and she said someone had beeped a horn and told her to move away, that she was causing an obstruction.
The man came back again. She didn't notice he was a garda because he was dressed in ordinary clothes. His face was red. He was very aggressive and he became very angry.
She asked him what the problem was, to give them a few minutes, couldn't he see the girl had L-plates up and was trying to park her car.
He didn't identify himself as a garda, she said. She only became aware he was a garda when a demand was made to produce documents. A couple of minutes elapsed and other cars passed by.
There was no-one in the car park. It was completely empty apart from a number of rows of cars along the railing.
In response to Inspector Sheehan, she said she reversed back her car into another space to make room for Ms. Armstrong. She definitely did not know Sergeant Geoghegan was a garda because he was covered up.
When she asked him could he not see the girl had L-plates up, he pointed his finger in an aggressive manner and said he wasn't talking to her.
Asked why she was so certain her friend was wearing a safety belt that night, she said it was because she was a learner driver.
Judge O Buachalla said that in all the most difficult circumstances of a difficult case, it would be wholly unsafe to convict and he directed that the proceedings be struck out.
 
