cars
{  
    September 23 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/kildare-motors-a-world-of-choice-for-the-car-buyer-25899118.html }
KILDARE offers the discerning motorist a wealth of options when it comes to buying a new car. All the major car dealership are represented and you will be able to view the entire range of new models in state of the art showrooms, with professional help and a back-up service that will offer you a range of finance packages, trade-in deals and parts and service. KILDARE offers the discerning motorist a wealth of options when it comes to buying a new car. All the major car dealership are represented and you will be able to view the entire range of new models in state of the art showrooms, with professional help and a back-up service that will offer you a range of finance packages, trade-in deals and parts and service. Customers in Kildare have never been in a stronger position, and with the last of the 04 models being lined up for sale now is the time to snap up a bargain. Here are a selection of the first class car dealerships and garages in Kildare, offering new car sales, quality used cars and after sales service. 
Dermot Kelly Ltd have been main Ford dealers for 50 years supplying cars, vans and tractors. This longevity breeds customer confidence in the brand and the supplier. This year Dermot Kelly Ltd welcomed the arrival of the 04 fleets of Mondeo, Cmax, Focus and Fiesta. Buying an '04 car is made easy when you take the huge reductions into consideration, for cash or personal loan; with top trade-ins given against any of their large selection. The Ford Mondeo is one of the safest cars on the road with standard safety features like anti lock brakes, side air bags and a host of other equipment designed for driver and passenger safety - and customers are always welcome to take a test drive. Telephone Kelly's on (01) 628 7311. 
Cill Dara Car Sales serve Kildare motorists with top quality sales and service. They offer a large range of new and used cars, with a top quality service bay. All Cill Dara Car Sales cars carry a full dealer warranty. Each car passes a 125-point inspection before leaving the premises. As they say here: Our name is your warranty! Find out more on (045) 521 268 
Terry Boylan (Naas) Ltd is a long-standing player in the Kildare motor market. Established in Celbridge in the 1950's the company opened its Naas showrooms in 1973. Terry Boylan is a main dealer for Honda and Suzuki - highly respected names in the private and commercial sectors. Call Terry Boylan on (045) 879 128, (045) 879 129. 
PG Duffy & Sons are Citroen main dealers and soon you will be able to see two new ranges in their showrooms: the stunning C4 and the boldly restyled C5, together with the C3 Stop & Start and the C2 VTS - soon to be launched at the Paris Motor Show. Striking looks, a spacious interior, high levels of safety and security together with numerous technological innovations make the new Citroen C4 stand out from the crowd. The innovative lane departure warning system, directional Xenon headlamps and multi functional fixed centred controls steering wheel will help the C4 win many admirers when it goes on sale in Ireland later this year. There is also the restyled C5 - widely praised for its spaciousness and comfort, the C5 now benefits from a fresh new look and even further enhancements to its equipment and mechanical specification. Find out more by calling (045) 431 340. 
Brennan Car Sales are ideally situated close to the roundabout off the N7 and near Hotel Keadeen. Major expansion will commence on January 5th 2005 with new state-of -the-art forecourt, car wash and convenience shop. Brennan's specialise in valeting & servicing all makes as well as being Multi Car Dealers in brand marques such as VW, Opel, Ford and in particular quality used Mercedes. The Brennan number is: (045) 432 336. 
Sheehy Motors are happy to report that work is well advanced on their new premises at Newbridge Road in Naas. In what will be a landmark motor dealership, Sheehy Motors will sell and lease Volkswagen and Audi cars and commercials from showrooms and workshops that were designed to the very highest international specifications. The facilities provided on the 4 acre site include 600 sq m of new car display, special indoor car handover areas, 14 bay workshop, NCT pre-test lane, express service bays, spacious parts department with special trade department, 8 car valeting area and parking for more than 300 vehicles. Call Sheehy's on: (045) 883 333 or at their Carlow outlet on (059) 913 1047. 
The Ray O'Brien Motor Group , based at Newhall, Naas is a main dealer for Opel, Mazda and Mitsubishi cars and vans and Mercedes (commercials only). The motor group is currently undergoing massive expansion. A multi million euro building project is currently underway with the creation of state-of-the-art new showrooms due to be completed by November 2004. The new showroom and extension will join the existing Opel garage and workshop spanning a massive 35,000 square feet, making it one of the biggest motor dealerships in the country. The group has an extensive range of commercial vehicles and run a dedicated car, van, truck and 4x4 centre from Newhall. Call them on (045) 882 844. 
