cars
{  
    September 20 2010 09:12 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/coroner-tells-how-tragic-death-of-law-student-shocked-community-27573796.html }
The death of a 22 years old law student in a road traffic accident in the village of Castlebaldwin during icy conditions was recalled at an Inquest before Coroner, Dr. Desmond Moran at Sligo Courthouse. The Inquest heard that David Maye, Culleenamore was on his way to Dublin around 8.15 a.m. on December 1st 2008 with another student when the car he was driving skidded from a side road on to the main N4 and collided with an oncoming lorry. In a deposition to the Inquest, lorry driver, Sean Higgins of Knocknacross, Riverstown said that he was employed full-time with Eircom covering Sligo/Leitrim, part of Donegal and Mayo. He also worked part-time at weekends with Frank McMorrow Transport, Mannionstown, Strandhill who had a depot at Lisconny, Riverstown. Witness said his employment with Eircom was rostered from Monday to Friday from 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. and his part-time work with Frank McMorrow was an occasional Saturday or Sunday. There were no set routes and it was usually carrying food stuffs. Occasionally, he did a run on a Monday morning for Frank McMorrow as was the case on December 1st. On Sunday, November 30th he had a delivery for Frank McMorrow from Riverstown to Letterkenny from 6.30 a.m. and returning at 11 a.m. He remained at home for the rest of the day. He had no alcohol that night and went to bed at 8.30 p.m. On the next day he left home at at 3.45 a.m., driving to Lisconny where he collected a Scania rigid lorry. There were foodstuffs on board and he headed for Sligo around 4 a.m. where he off-loaded two pallets. He then drove to Longford. The N4 was dry but he had noticed that as he drove from his house to Lisconny that the road was slippy and icy. It was still freezing and he was extra conscious of that and was cautious. He left Longford at around 6.45 a.m. to return to Lisconny. He was still aware that the roads could be dangerous as he had met a Council lorry gritting the N4. At approximately 8.15 a.m. he was approaching Castlebaldwin and there were cars travelling in front of him. He knew the village well as it was close to his home and he was conscious of keeping within the speed limit. "I had reduced my speed considerably as I passed the first island on entering Castlebaldwin. I kept a safe distance from the car ahead of me. Suddenly, a small silver car shot out in front of me from the Ballymote road. "As I was passing McDermott's I didn't notice any vehicle at the Ballymote road and all of a sudden, the silver car was in my path. The driver of the car appeared to be braking as it was skidding. This all happened extremely fast. "I jammed on the brakes and took evasive action by swerving to the right as far as I could that was safe as there was oncoming traffic from the Sligo direction. The silver car collided with the front of the truck," he said. He stopped and rang the emergencies services. Both occupants of the car were taken by ambulance to Sligo General Hospital. Witness went home after he had given his details to the Gardai. He had never been involved in an accident before. He was deeply shocked and upset when he heard that the driver of the car had died in hospital later that day. Witness added that he was on holidays that week from Eircom and had not intended doing any more driving that day. Eamon O'Connell, in a deposition, said he had been travelling to work in Sligo from Elphin that morning. It was frosty and the temperature was well below zero. He was behind a car which in turn was travelling behind a lorry as it entered Castlebaldwin. Witness estimated that he would have been travelling at about 20 to 25 miles per hour and that the other car and lorry would have slowed to a similar speed. "I saw a car coming from the Ballymote road beside McDermott's pub. I saw it travel into the path of the lorry ahead of me. I saw the lorry take evasive action by swerving and braking. The car went out of my view then," he said. He added that he felt the lorry driver could not have avoided the collision. Philip Murphy, in a deposition, said he was a third year law student at Griffith College in Dublin and was in the same class as David Maye. David was to collect him at his house at Bricklieve, Castlebaldwin on December 1st. He would usually pick him up before 8 a.m. as the first class at Griffith College would be at 10 a.m. David arrived at his house at around 8.05 a.m. "On this date we were running a bit late. On the way out my mother shouted at me to be careful on the roads," said witness. He and David were wearing their seat belts. "The roads appeared normal between my house and Castlebaldwin. We were going at normal speed. "We approached the tjunction that comes out onto the Dublin to Sligo road. As we got to the Taylor's gateway on the left David started to brake. The car started skidding down the hill heading towards the tjunction. As we were skidding David cursed. "As we were getting close to the end of the t-junction I spotted a truck coming from the left, from the Sligo direction. All I was hoping was that we would miss it. Then suddenly we were hit on the right hand side by the truck. The car had held its course coming out on to the road. "The next thing I can remember is we were stopped. I felt my head and realised I was okay. I then looked over at David and noticed he was unconscious," said witness. He got out of the car and shouted to the truck driver to phone for an ambulance. He then got back into the car and checked David's neck and he had a good strong pulse. "I then started calling his name but there was no reaction out of him," said witness. Garda Patrick Naughton, based in Ballymote, in a deposition said he arrived at the scene of the collision at 8.40 a.m. Whilst getting there he noticed the roads were very slippy and the patrol car took a wobble as he came down by McDermott's public house towards the N4. The ambulance crew told witness that the driver of the car was in a critical condition. Witness escorted the ambulance to Sligo General Hospital. Sergeant P.J. Gallagher, PSV Inspector and a Forensic Collision Investigator, in a deposition said he arrived at the scene at 12.30 p.m. and carried out an examination. The road was wet was a result of a very heavy frost the previous night. It remained cold and frosty throughout the day. The main damage to the Scania truck was to its front left while the Peugeot 306 hatchback car had a severe impact to the driver's side. All of its tyres had good thread and the vehicle appeared to be in serviceable condition prior to the accident. The lorry was also in good serviceable condition. Sgt. Gallagher said he returned to the scene on a later date after a night of heavy frost and he noted that the N4 was free from frost but the Ballymote road on the approach to the junction with the N4 was slippery due to the heavy frost. Witness said that the the Scania truck had a satellite tracking device and the owner had made available a printout of the satellite tracker for the relevant time. The tracker showed a speed for the vehicle of 58 kph slowing to 47 kph at 8.18 hours on the date in question. The tacograph from the lorry showed a speed of 57 kph slowing to 48 kph at 8.12 hours. When witness checked the clock on the tacograph in the vehicle after impact it was reading six minutes slower than his own watch. "This being the case, adding the six minutes to the tacograph clock gives a time of 8.18 hours for the time of impact," said Sgt. Gallagher. Witness concluded that the truck was travelling in the Sligo direction and had slowed from a speed of 87 kph to 57 kph on the approach to Castlebaldwin. It was travelling at 57 kph when it was confronted with the car coming from its left. The car driver was confronted with a slippery road due to frost and was unable to stop and slid into the path of the oncoming truck. "Although the truck was travelling at 57 kph in a 50 kph zone I do not believe the impact could have been avoided if it was travelling at 50 kph when confronted with the car," said Sgt. Gallagher. Sergeant Philip Maree told the Inquest that a file on the investigation went to the Director of Public Prosecutions and no prosecution was recommended. Dr. Clive Kilgallen, who performed the postmortem examination, told the Inquest that the deceased had died from cranial, thoracic and abdominal injuries. The jury returned a verdict in accordance with the medical evidence. Dr. Moran said the deceased had been travelling down an icy incline and he had reacted by braking but the conditions allowed the car to continue into the path of the oncoming lorry. The Coroner said the deceased was a very popular, well respected young man who came from a well known, hard working family. His death in the run up to Christmas had shocked the Strandhill area and wider Sligo community. He was a young man with a lot of potential who was dearly missed by his family and friends. Dr. Moran extended sympathy to the deceased's family and friends as did the foreman of the jury, Mr. Gerard Mitchell, Dr. Clive Kilgallen and Sergeant Philip Maree on behalf of the Gardai. 
