cars
{  
    November 06 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/coroner-calls-for-car-speed-restrictions-27445381.html }
The County Coroner has called for governors to be put into cars to prevent excessive speeding.His comments came after the horrific details of a two-car crash, which resulted in the deaths of two drivers near Newport, were disclosed at an inquest in Nenagh. The inquest heard how 19-year-old Noel Quigley from Newport and 64-year-old Marie McCoy from Kilcommon died By Guardian Reporter  The County Coroner has called for ‘governors’ to be put into cars to prevent excessive speeding. His comments came after the horrific details of a two-car crash, which resulted in the deaths of two drivers near Newport, were disclosed at an inquest in Nenagh. The inquest heard how 19-year-old Noel Quigley from Newport and 64-year-old Marie McCoy from Kilcommon died after their cars collided at Lackamore, a mile-and-a-half outside Newport last April. The 19-year old, who was clocking speeds of up to 160 miles-per-hour, prior to the accident in his green Honda Civic, died from shock after he suffered multiple injuries in the crash. Marie McCoy, the driver of the other car, a Ford Ka, died instantly and was pronounced dead at the steering wheel of her car, on which she was slumped. After details of both cases were explained to the jury, and before the final verdicts on the deaths of the two road traffic victims were delivered, the County Coroner, Dr Louis Courtney said it was his view that no car should be able to reach excessive speeds. “It is time that we put governors into cars. I can’t help saying that no car should be able to do over 75 miles-per-hour,” said Dr Courtney. The Coroner said it was ridiculous to have a speed limit of 60 miles-per-hour when cars could travel at 120 miles per hour. He added that his predecessor had campaigned for the speed limit to be reduced to 50 miles-per-hour and it was reduced to 60 miles-per-hour. “I really feel that our small cars, and not just them, any car, will do 100 mph. They are so light and accelerate so quickly. It should not be possible for any car to reach that speed,” said Dr Courtney. The inquest, which was held at the Abbey Court Hotel on Friday last, was told that the two-car accident occurred on Sunday April 20. At 7:20pm Garda Pat Ryan received a call telling him that a traffic accident had occurred at Lackamore near Newport. When Garda Ryan went to the accident scene he noted a green Honda Civic, in which Mr Quigley was travelling with his friend David Butler, was on the right hand side of the road facing Rearcross at an angle to the ditch. The passenger of the car, David Butler, was after wearing a seat belt and was safe. Mr Butler told Garda Ryan he was turning down the radio in the car and the next thing he knew his friend, Noel Quigley, was on top of him because he was not wearing a seat belt. Garda Ryan went to the other car, a Ford Ka, in which there was a female. She, Mrs McCoy, had no pulse and was wearing a seat belt. The airbag had been deployed and an analogue clock in the car had stopped at 7:15pm. Marie McCoy was driving the Ford Ka towards Rearcross. The car in which she was travelling ended up on a ditch facing back in the direction where it came from. The Garda told the inquest that he believed that the point of impact, which was half way between the two vehicles, was on the side of the road that Maire McCoy was travelling. Mr David King, an Emergency Medical Technician with the Ambulance Service based at Nenagh Hospital, said, in a deposition to the inquest that he was called to the scene of the accident that occurred near Lackamore school at 7:20pm. Mr King arrived to the scene of the accident 29 minutes later. When he arrived to the scene Ms McCoy was slumped over the steering wheel of the car. Dr Moroney, a local doctor had pronounced her dead, while Mr Quigley was presenting a sinus rhythm. Attempts were made to assist Mr Quigley but he was pronounced dead at 8:10pm. Dr Courtney said that you could not expect an ambulance service to do better than they had. He said he had always admired the speed at which the ambulance service operated. David Butler said in his deposition that he had been travelling with Mr Quigley that evening. They had visited a number of friends’ houses and had gone to look at a bike in one house. He said that Noel Quigley was driving in a hurry because they were planning to go out in Nenagh or Limerick. He said that before the crash he saw that the car was travelling at 160 km-per-hour. He said he thought that Noel Quigley was travelling too fast. After the car crashed Mr Butler called out his friend’s name but he said nothing. The inquest found that Marie McCoy died due to injuries consistent to those associated with a road traffic accident. The inquest found that: Marie McCoy, 64, Banquet Hill, Kilcommon, Thurles died due to multiple injuries consistent to being in a road traffic accident, and that Noel Quigley, 19, Tulla, Newport due to shock, due to multiple injuries consistent to being in a road traffic accident. 
