cars
{  
    October 17 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/to-buy-or-not-to-buy-the-big-question-facing-car-leasers-29667398.html }
THE irony is lost on no one. At a time when so few can afford to buy a car, there was never as much money to be spent on acquiring one. There is, as Nissan's chief executive James McCarthy recently put it, 'buckets of finance' out there. Indeed, bad and all as registrations are this year (7pc behind 2012, which was 12pc down on 2011) they would be a lot worse if people had not dipped into those 'buckets'. We are, many believe, witnessing a revolution: fewer people are buying cars – more are 'renting' them. It is a seismic shift from 'ownership to loanership'. You sense this is big – and going to be bigger – because the large luxury car-makers are joining, maybe even leading, the party. All of a sudden the buzz word is PCP - Personal Contract Plan. It effectively means you pay for the use of a car for three or four years. Some marques are now shifting up to 70pc of their cars this way. Imagine what their registration figures would be like without the 'buckets'. A typical PCP means you: *  Come up with a 20pc deposit. *  Pay a pre-agreed figure a month for three years. *  Agree what the minimum value of the car will be at the end of the term. After three years you have three options: 1. Hand back the car and walk away. 2. Buy it for the minimum amount agreed at the outset. 3. Use the equity (agreed minimum amount) towards a brand new car on another PCP. You are effectively "borrowing" the difference between the price now and what the car will be worth in, say, three years. It's a long way from getting a bank or credit union loan, owning the car and trading it in after a few years and starting all over again. Brian Merrigan is managing director of BMW Financial Services (Ireland) Ltd. He sums up the sea-change in attitudes, especially at the posh end of the market. "In our case it has made a prestige car possible for 'so much a month'." To put the PCP revolution in some context, he dips momentarily into recent history. Irony of ironies the  word 'Anglo' crops up early in the conversation. "Anglo were making €5.5 million a year on car finance. Then they closed it down because they could make that with one property deal. Others got out as well." (GE/Woodchester, Lombard, Friends First, Bank Of Scotland Ireland, PTSB, the list went on and on.) The vacuum had to be filled and the motor industry steadily revved up its own credit lines. Volkswagen came in with their bank. Others sometimes used commercial banks as partners. The irony of that is not lost on anyone either. BMW here went to Munich with a clear message: let's do the finance ourselves. They got approval to go ahead from the Central Bank, in another ironic twist, on the day the troika moved in – November 22, 2010. FLOW More than 17,000 financed vehicles later – since January 4, 2011 – the money goes with the flow. Mr Merrigan estimates that's €250m worth of a portfolio out there on the road. Coincidentally, 17 new jobs have been created in the past two years. Importantly, that 17,000 figure includes cars sanctioned through the Alphera Financial Services brand which deals with more than 100 non-BMW dealers. Brian Merrigan agrees the relatively "straightforward" nature of a PCP has changed attitudes. He repeats the central point: it has made a prestige car possible for 'so much a month'. He, and his competitors, all agree on the one area which has to be absolutely spot-on in any deal – the guaranteed minimum value of the car when the plan ends. It has to be realistic, reflective of the market and fair to both driver and dealer. Get it wrong and the whole thing sags and stinks, as it did back in the late nineties and early noughties when people were faced with final settlement sums (balloon payments, remember?) that were multiples of what their cars were worth. Bitter lessons have been learned from that, and good lessons from the UK where PCPs have been going for years and years. We're catching up fast. Mr Merrigan makes the central point of difference between then and now. If the bottom were to fall out of the market and a car were worth far, far less than its Guaranteed Minimum Future Value (GMFV) in three years, then the 'bank' NOT the customer takes the hit because it is locked into that amount. That is the difference between the Republic of Balloon Payments and Ireland PCP. By the same token, if car values soar over the three years, the customer can bargain for, and get more, than the minimum guaranteed value. If he/she doesn't get it with the existing dealer, they can go to one that will give them more, pay off the agreed sum with the original garage, pocket the rest or start all over with a larger deposit (30pc is a sort of maximum). The one area drivers simply have to get right is how many kilometres a year they will cover. Penalties kick in once you go over the agreed limit so they need to be realistic. Obviously, the higher the mileage over three years, the lower the value of the car.  You can also include servicing costs in the plan. Mr Merrigan reflects: "The change in mentality is that it doesn't cost, or take, a big wad of money to be able to drive a new car." So what does it really cost? The true BMW Financial Services rate, he says, is 7.95pc. However, as a rule, the company selling a car can do things to make the deal more attractive and that can effectively cut the rate by 1.5pc. How difficult is it to get one? "We are accepting 88pc of applications because people have equity in their cars or have deposits." What happens next? He expects his company will lend around €150m to retail customers next year – a sum he says would reflect "modest growth". No irony there for sure, but maybe half-a-bucket or so of realistic optimism. Irish Independent 
