cars
{  
    June 12 2009 09:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/the-whole-episode-about-the-car-keys-has-put-a-doubt-in-my-mind-judge-27564905.html }
A motorist who told Judge Denis McLoughlin at Sligo Court that the keys of his vehicle were not in the car when Garda approached him in a car park at The Mall had a drunken driving prosecution dismissed. Paul Mulligan, Armada Cottages, Bundoran, stated that the keys were with his girlfriend in a public house across the road at the time and that he had gone to the car, which was open, to get money. Mulligan was represented by Mr. Gerard McGovern, solicitor. At the outset, Mr. McGovern recalled that the Court had heard the initial facts and the matter was adjourned to have the Member in Charge at Sligo Garda Station on the date of the incident in attendance. Garda Eoin Moore told Mr. McGovern that he remembered Garda Mary Burke arriving at the Station with Paul Mulligan at approximately 10.58p.m. on February 18th last. Garda Burke had informed witness that Mulligan had been arrested at 10.47p.m. at The Mall car park. He was further informed by Garda Burke that the defendant had been seated in the driver's seat and the car had been moving when she approached. Asked by Mr. McGovern if there was any discussion regarding the keys of the car, Garda Moore replied 'no'. He was also not aware of any telephone calls being made. Mr. McGovern said he had a witness who would give evidence of handing the keys into the Garda Station. Garda Moore asked in turn if the keys were handed to him. As Garda Moore continued to refer to his notebook, Mr. McGovern enquired as to why a Custody Officer would make such notes. The defending solicitor said he had never seen a Custody Officer do so before. He pointed out that there were three pages of notes in Garda Moore's book and asked the Garda if he was telling the Court he did this on every occasion. "In a case like this, yes. If it was an offence such as public order, no. They wouldn't be required," Garda Moore replied. Both Mr. McGovern and Judge McLoughlin looked at the Garda's notebook. Under further crossexamination, witness said the only time Paul Mulligan's brother called to the Garda Station was to present bail money. At this time he was not aware of any discussion regarding the keys of the car. Inspector Daniel Sweeney pointed out that a number of entries had been made in the custody record and one of these showed that at 2 a.m. Mulligan had asked for, and been allowed, a phone call to his brother and shortly after this his brother arrived with €250 for bail. Garda Mary Burke, who had previously given evidence of the Mulligan's car going ' over and back' in the car park, was asked by Mr. McGovern as to where the keys of the vehicle were. She stated that she did not have the keys in her possession. There was another Garda with her and he did not have them either. Mr. McGovern asked Garda Burke when had she ever been involved in a drunk driving matter when the keys were not important. He further added that the car was not abandoned in the car park and asked what would have happened if the vehicle was left open and had been taken. Garda Burke said she was satisfied that it was secure, to which Mr. McGovern also asked how this was so. Mulligan would say that he told Garda Burke that his girlfriend, who was in The Leitrim Bar less than one hundred metres away, had the keys. Garda Burke added that she had already given evidence of the car being driven in a public place and told Inspector Sweeney that it had reversed twice as she observed it. Mr. McGovern asked how it would be possible to do this if the key was not in the vehicle. "I would not think it would be possible," witness replied. John Mulligan told the Court that he was the defendant's brother. He was in The Leitrim Bar on the night in question. He had gone to The Mall car park to meet his girlfriend and then saw two Gardai going to his brother's car. Paul Mulligan was taken out of the vehicle and the Gardai had searched outside the car, had searched the defendant and had also searched inside the vehicle. Witness stated that the keys of the car were inside The Leitrim Bar with Paul Mulligan's girlfriend. He added that one of the Gardai had telephoned him to bring the keys to the Station and he this he did. However, he was then told the Gardai did not want the keys and told him to bring bail money to have his brother released. When he answered the phone it had been handed to his brother Paul, who told him to bring the keys as the Garda would ' go easy' on him. Paul Mulligan told how he had ran out of money in The Leitrim Bar. He had gone over to his car to get money and hit a switch which was wired up to prevent the vehicle overheating and operated the fan to cool the engine. This sounded like the car was being driven, but this was not the case as they keys were with his girlfriend back in the bar, he added. Mulligan stated that it was impossible to drive the car without the keys. He added that he had been searched and the Gardai had also searched around the car and in it and found no keys. Asked by Inspector Sweeney how Garda Burke would have observed the car moving if it was impossible to drive it without keys, the defendant said she ' must have been seeing things.' He added that he never locked the car and there was about €50 to €60 in it. Inspector Sweeney commented that he found it strange that Mulligan would leave the car open with money in it. "That's the truth," Mulligan replied. Judge McLoughlin said the whole episode regarding the keys had put a doubt in his mind and he would therefore given Mulligan the benefit of the doubt and dismiss the charge. 
