cars
{  
    November 06 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/are-you-buying-a-new-or-second-hand-car-our-experts-answer-your-questions-38663844.html }
Car-value expert Gillian Keogh teams up with Motoring Editor Eddie Cunningham to help you make the right choice with your next purchase. Gillian is Editor of a monthly guidebook on the values of used cars produced by the Motor Trade Publishers team. The team supplies a car-valuing service to the motor trade, insurance companies and finance houses. Q I'm in a stressful car-hunting situation. I recently traded in my 2006 Peugeot 307 1.4 petrol (had it for almost 11 years) for a 2015 Toyota Auris Sol 1.5 diesel estate. I've been driving the Auris over a month but from day one I realised I'd made a big mistake. The car, although lovely and with a huge boot, lacks space for passengers. I feel really restricted with my partner, a 6ft son and 10-year-old daughter. Long story short: the garage I bought from has agreed to refund my money and return me my Peugeot.  While this is a great position to be in, I am so worried about what to buy next. I have seen a 142 Nissan Qashqai 1.5 diesel import (history checked out OK) in a small garage. We took it for a test drive, all four of us, and everyone was pleased with the space. But my own mechanic (who has not seen it yet) has advised me to steer clear of Qashqais. He says the parts are awful; all made by Renault and really expensive to replace. Is this the case? There is a stop/start system and an electronic handbrake which I feel nervous about as I've never used either of them and my mechanic says they could cause problems. My budget is €12,300 plus my Peugeot. I do a lot of city driving while making twice-a-month longer trips. Annual mileage approx 10,000. Gillian: First off, you don't necessarily need a diesel. A petrol is fine for your mileage/driving. Secondly, the dealer is being fair offering a swap back so see what else they have to offer as they have shown how decent they are to deal with. Thirdly, the Qashqai is one of the best-selling cars in Ireland and mechanical issues aren't something I'd associate with them. Nissans in general have a good reputation and are cheap to service, while parts don't cost an arm and a leg. Usually any car with a stop/start has the option to turn it on or off. The electric handbrake is standard on many models and just takes a little getting used to. It's not something I've heard concerns about. For the money, I would stick with the Qashqai for the size that suits you but opt for the petrol. It comes in a little cheaper than the diesel (but only just) and go for the SV, SVE or SV Premium spec. If you are going for an SUV because it might offer more space, I would suggest you take a look at Skoda Superb too. You most likely won't find a petrol but the space might be more important right now, especially for your tall son. You would be looking at a 2014 model or maybe a 2015 if you are lucky, although if you wanted to go for another estate the 2014 is more likely. Eddie: I'd give your dealer every chance because they have been ultra decent to you. But buy the petrol Qashqai if your dealer has nothing else to persuade you. I share your concern about the electronic handbrake - but you will get used to it. The stop/start isn't a problem. You'll wonder why you worried when you look back in a couple of months. Q I drive a 2006 Nissan Note automatic and would like to change to a second-hand 2017 or 2018 automatic or hybrid. I have approx €14,000 to spend. What do you advise? Gillian: Go for a hybrid as it's also an automatic but €14,000 won't get you a 2017 or 2018. It might just about get you a basic Toyota Yaris hybrid. I would go for something like a VW Polo, Skoda Fabia or Seat Ibiza. The VW group auto (DSG) transmission is excellent now - something that can't be said for all makes. Some tend to kill the fun of smaller cars. The problem is they are extremely scarce but your budget will cover the cost of a 2017 model. A Hyundai i20 would be another option but scarce too. For more choice, you might need to include a 2016 plate in your search. Eddie: Even if you have to step back a year to 2016 to get your Yaris hybrid, you are still coming up 10 years in terms of age. It's the one to go for I think because you get the hybrid and auto transmission. Q I am looking to buy a second-hand car. I am driving an 06 Renault Clio, my college car, thanks to my parents. I want to change to a five-year-old. I reckon the Clio would be scrappage value only. Annual mileage is around 13,000km. I want a car a bit bigger than a Clio, with more life in the engine. I'm wondering about diesel. I'm driving country roads with significant hills and I'm constantly using the gear shift. My budget is around €13,000. I want a car that I can rely on, as I don't live near any home support. Gillian: A 2014/2015 nippy, reliable, diesel hatchback. I'm thinking Audi A1 or A3 if the A1 is a bit small. A3s at that age usually sell for similar money to a one-year newer A1, while the price difference when new is much bigger. The A1 is one of few cars that depreciates slowly. I don't see this changing. A Honda Civic or Mazda3 would be my next go-to cars. As you don't live near any home support, buy from a dealer close to you that is offering at least a one-year warranty. There are plenty of private sales for these models but you won't have any comeback after you part with your money. Eddie: Simple really: Honda Civic, Mazda3, KIA cee'd or Hyundai i30. Sound cars. Q I am hoping to trade in for a new model in January and looking for some inspiration on what makes/models would be worth considering, rather than just going for a new version of my current car - a 172 Opel Astra SRI 5dr petrol with 40,000km. I do 2,000km a month. It was bought new and I'm paying €400 a month over four years. I aim to keep my monthly repayments the same. Number of seats/space not really a concern, although I'd prefer a 5dr with a reasonable boot space. I like a stylish/sporty car. Would I be best sticking with the Astra or what others would be worth considering? Gillian: Not to be hard on the Opel Astra, but it doesn't scream stylish or sporty. I am also not a fan of owning the same car more than once. Same brand yes, but the same model gets boring. Something for similar money that looks more stylish, to me anyway, is the Honda Civic (I mention this a lot) or new Ford Focus. I think for a similar price new, these two come out ahead. Eddie: A good few cars of the size you are looking for have special-spec levels (ST/GT Lines). I like the Focus, though the KIA cee'd is another in the frame. Q What's good value for €45,000 for a family of four (both children under 10). I want a crossover type and I'd like one of the premium German marques. I'm currently driving an Avensis diesel (2012) and want to upgrade to as new a diesel car as possible. We need more space and a good engine because we travel around a lot to sports events. Gillian: A new Audi Q3 2.0 TDi S-Line is in your price range or a used but fresh Q5 if you want more room. I'd go for the Q5. BMW has similar models with the X3 and X5. You won't get a new model but nearly new (181/182) is possible in the X3. The Mercedes option? I am a fan of the GLE. A 2017 should just about make budget. Anyone buying one usually goes that little extra on upgraded seats, alloys and added luxury, so definitely check this out for the family. Eddie: All good options. I fancy the Mercedes GLC in addition to what Gillian recommends. It was recently revised and improved. Indo Motoring 
