cars
{  
    February 16 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/me-and-my-cardavid-slattery-26229034.html }
WHILE most of us think about what car we'll buy, David Slattery is really interested in how we are going to pay for  it. David is marketing manager for Bank of Ireland Motor Loan and he drives a Renault Megane Coupe. WHILE most of us think about what car we'll buy, David Slattery is really interested in how we are going to pay for it. David is marketing manager for Bank of Ireland Motor Loan and he drives a Renault Megane Coupe. "I like cars and I've always had an interest in them. I wouldn't describe myself as a car nut but I do keep my eye on the road. I work in the motor loan department and, given the nature of my job, I am involved in the car industry to a certain extent. Keeping an eye on the motor industry is an interesting hobby because there are always new models, new designs and new features being introduced to cars all the time. "My first car was a three-year-old Renault Clio; it was a great little car. It was a good solid car and it never gave me any trouble. Since then I've had two Clios before I decided it was time to upgrade and I wanted the Megane Coupe. The coupe is a very striking-looking car, very sleek. Before I bought the coupe I looked at Volkswagen, Peugeot, Ford and Opel but I just felt that the Renault had the best finish of the lot. I'm not closed to looking at other brands, but at the time I was buying this car Renault was the best brand for me. "I wanted a car that was comfortable, stylish and safe, and the coupe is all three. I hadn't planned on going for a new car but I just couldn't get a secondhand coupe so I went the whole way and bought a new 1.4 in metallic silver. "It's a lovely car to drive, it really holds the road and it feels very solid. I've been in other cars driving at 70 miles an hour on the motorway and the whole car starts to shake but the coupe doesn't budge. "Mine is a 1.4; it is available in a 1.6, but the 1.4 is just right for me, it's in the right tax bracket and it has plenty of power in it when I need it. I live in the city and I walk to work so my car while it is the perfect car for a city dweller like myself, if only because it's easy to park is for leisure purposes. "I love to just take off, and I think that if you're going to spend the weekend behind the wheel in the car it's nice to be in comfortable surroundings. The interior is very well finished and it's one of the things I like most about the car. It has bucket seats that have a leather trim and they are so comfortable that you just don't want to get out of them. The dash is clear and the clocks are easy to see at a glance. "The one criticism of the car is the space in the back it doesn't have any leg room. But it is a coupe, and the four hatchback just doesn't look as good. Most of the time I'm in the car on my own, so I think I can live with it for now. In an ideal world I'd change my car every year but realistically I probably keep it for two or three years, and, in an ideal world, I'd probably drive an BMW but, realistically, I think I'll stick with my coupe." Sharon Anderson meandmycar@eircom.net 
