cars
{ Eddie Cunningham 
    December 24 2017 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-reviews/eddie-cunningham-my-top-three-cars-of-the-year-are-36417759.html }
From Utah to Oman, from LA to Tokyo it has been an extraordinary year for driving cars over some of the world’s toughest, exotic and most challenging routes.  And after all my travelling and testing, my three cars of the year remain the Mercedes E-Class, Toyota C-HR and Peugeot 3008SUV. Here's my take on them, as well as other highlights through the year: Toyota C-HR crossover 
Close
 Toyota C-HR / The biggest early-January surprise was the Toyota C-HR crossover which had helped the marque to Number One status the previous month. It has gone on to even greater heights since and is now a regular recommendation to those looking for a compact SUV. Has it got too many curves? Yes. No. Yes. I still can’t make up my mind but it is the quietest, smoothest car in its class. January winner by a mile. Land Rover Discovery January melded into February as the evenings stretched and suddenly, one bright day, I found myself ‘parked’ on a near-vertical outcrop of rock in Utah at the wheel of the new Land Rover Discovery.  As luck would have it I was the first to undertake what looked like a crazy manoeuvre with the company’s 2-litre diesel. Basically the nice Land Rover man told me to ‘floor it’ so I’d get over the top of the mountain, but then to lift off in time to prevent me going head-over-tails down the far side. At which point my fellow-journalist passenger suggested it might be a good time for him to get out and walk. Suffice to say I managed to make it up and over safely. Stunning ability (the car’s not mine) and Utah’s views, backdrops, hues and colours will stay with me forever. The Discovery takes off-roading to a difference place. Within a couple of weeks I was at the Arctic Circle driving cars on ice that were shod with Hankook tyres. I chose, wisely as it transpired, to be driven rather than drive at manic speed around one snow-clad, ice-shod course by a driver of phenomenal ability. All to prove how good tyres can be. And how important it is to have proper ones under you. Another driver wasn’t quite as lucky. There are limits to what even the best tyres can do.  Mercedes E-Class 
Close
 Mercedes E-class / The Mercedes E-Class kept cropping up in various guises. Each time I drove it – in Portugal for the Coupe for example – I was even more impressed. When you get something right it makes all the difference. More anon. The Geneva Motor Show in March is my favourite display of the year but I have to ask: how relevant are these events any more? We know about virtually every model in advance. Surprise us automakers, please.  Peugeot 3008SUV Like the Merc E-Class, every time I drove the Peugeot 3008SUV the more I liked it. Always good to give a car a real runout on Irish roads. And I certainly did that with the 3008. 
Close
 Peugeot 3008 SUV / Honda Civic The new Honda Civic first-drive abroad in the last days of March showed again how petrol technology has evened things with diesel. I really liked the 1-litre turbo-petrol.  MW 5-series 520d I drove the new BMW 5-series 520d to Cork for Ford’s centenary celebrations (what a gala event). Let me re-phrase that. It ‘drove’ me most of the way. Another example of advances in autonomous driving. I’d previously travelled in the Mercedes E-Class to near Belfast and Wexford under similar technological prowess. Audi Q2 Most weeks there was an international launch where we drove new cars but I still say driving one here remains the true test. And Audi’s little Q2 with the 1-litre 3-cyl engine proved just how true that can be. Really enjoyed it. Pricey but excellent. Volvo XC60 Barcelona is a heavily favoured location by car companies for launches. I’m half afraid to count how many times I was there this year. The Volvo XC60 drive in the Catalan environs was memorable. Fine car; still love the old one though. Renault Koleos Back north to Finland in the Renault Koleos in June and a few days later back to Barcelona for a glorious mid-summer night at the launch of SEAT’s nice new small SUV the Arona.  Mazda’s CX-5 crossover Then it was Kerry for a couple of lovely days in Dingle in Mazda’s CX-5 crossover with a major feed in Obama Plaza en route. Jaguar’s baby E-PACE SUV And suddenly it was mid-July and we were in London for the unveiling of Jaguar’s baby E-PACE SUV. There are so many people from the North in key positions at Jaguar it is like being in Belfast any time I’m at one of their gigs. No wonder the marque is doing well. These people really know their cars.  Ford Fiesta Confession time: I get lost a lot on foreign drives despite having accompanying sat nav. And let me tell you the new Ford Fiesta got some driving around Valladolid, Spain when we realised just how far we were off course. Excellent car that. Pity about our sense of direction.  Velar We travelled up to Norway at the end of July to drive the ‘fourth Range Rover’, the Velar. Looks stunning but such is the severity of speed enforcement there we barely topped 50kmh the whole trip.  Jaguar F-PACE The new 2-litre Jaguar F-PACE sports car with a €30,000 price drop on the 6cyl prompted a brief burst of acceleration on our final day there. Sometimes you just gotta go with the flow. Mercedes AMG E43 The Mercedes AMG E43 tempted me on my Irish drive but I managed to keep on the right side of the law. Big smooth and powerful, it is a clever mix of brawn and beauty. Lexus LC coupe The end of August and where else would I be only Milan? To drive the gorgeous looking new Lexus LC coupe, no less. All the way to Munich. Wonderful backdrop, loads of twists and turns, stupendous lunch and wet, dreary German autobahn. A perfect mix for a real drive. I love the look of that car.  Volkswagen Polo Volkswagen’s new Polo is now as big as the Golf once was and we found that out as we drove it around Hamburg. Much improved new car. I can see lots buying it in 2018. I’ve already recommended it to several people. From there to Tokyo to see the new Nissan Leaf where I filed copy at the ridiculous Irish time of 4am. The food, oh the food (wonderful). The factory tour, oh the factory tour (not so wonderful).  KIA Stonic Back to Berlin mid-September for KIA’s small SUV the Stonic where it was good to get to know the city’s suburbs on our drives. Ate far too much. I’d normally expect an invitation to Enniskerry for a Mercedes press conference to be the setting for a sedate, if interesting, affair on trends, new models etc. This was to be different. They accused rivals of skewing the real story of new-car sales by pre-registering motors to falsely boost market share. Others were, are, still seething after I reported the comments here on independent.ie. One man’s pre-reg is another’s price reduction, they say, pointing to the fact Mercedes have cut prices.  Volkswagen’s new T-Roc small crossover And suddenly it was the end of October and we were in Portugal to drive Volkswagen’s new T-Roc small crossover. It will, they say outsell the Golf eventually. For the record the Golf was bought by 4,300 or so people in 2017. No pressure then. Tesla Model S electric car I took the Tesla Model S electric car for a few days, did the shopping in Thurles with it and found charging it brilliantly simple (supercharge point Ballacolla, Co Laois) and frustratingly difficult (Dublin).  Late November/early December heralded quite a flurry of activity. First it was off on World Car Award duty (pleasure) to test models on this year’s list. And what better spot than sunny Pasadena, California to do so. Then it was up to LA to meet James Corden (he did call me a legend) and, of course, sample the motoring fare at the Los Angeles Auto Show. The scramble to get a first picture of the new Mercedes CLS 4dr coupe was most unedifying. And then we drove to Santa Monica and Malibu, and up the hills trying out the first plug-in hybrids (PHEVs) from Range Rover: the eponymous SUV and the smaller Sport version. Lexus LS I got back on the Friday and was out on the Sunday to beautiful Oman to drive the dramatic new LS saloon flagship from Lexus. Great drive. It’s such a change, this car. Gorgeous inside too. Wonderful people; lovely food. Back on the Wednesday, out on the Thursday to drive Volvo’s new XC40 in, you guessed it, Barcelona. Which is where I signed off on travels for the year.  It has been memorable one for good and bad reasons.  Happy New Year. Online Editors 
