cars
{  
    June 30 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/innovative-car-sharing-scheme-could-be-on-way-to-wexford-35867835.html }
An innovative car sharing scheme was showcased at last Monday's meeting of Wexford Municipal District. Darragh Genockey of GoCar car sharing scheme attended the monthly meeting to give the members a flavour of what the scheme entails and how it could work if implemented in Wexford. Mr Genockey said the scheme was established in 2008 in Cork and it was bought by an Irish car rental company in 2012. He said that GoCar is an hourly car rental company currently operating primarily in Dublin and Cork. The company currently have 215 cars in operation but aim to have between 350 and 400 cars by the end of the year saying they are planning 'a big expansion'. He said that the average car costs €11,000 to run each year but is only used, on average, for about one hour a day.  Mr Genockey said when you break that down it works out at about €30 per hour to use your own car. Their car rental scheme, he said, was very cost effective in comparison.  He said members would pay a one off €10 registration fee submitting a copy of their licence and payment details. He said the car cannot be driven until members have a confirmed booking via their smart phone and a four digit pin which they use to unlock it and get the keys from a safe box.  The user then drives the car as normal before returning it at a scheduled time. Mr Genockey said that the average length of use is three hours with users using the service between three and four times a month. 'It is the most efficient use of a car', he said. Mr Genockey said people use the service for convenience as there are no maintenance or insurance fees as well as for its cost efficiency.  He said that the company is targeting no car, one car and two car households and are looking to expand nationally adding that this September is EU Mobility Week with the theme of bike and car sharing. Cllr Deirdre Wadding wondering if the focus of the service was more urban based than rural and Mr Genockey agreed that this was the case. He said that they were looking at installing a car into a small community but said that this would be a year down the line.  She also wondered if there were any abuse of the system but Mr Genockey said that there were very little. He said that it was unusual to use a smart phone for renting a car but said it was a very simple process. He said that GoCar provide two different types of insurance cover for people aged 21 years and over. Following a question from Cllr Anthony Kelly about fuel consumption Mr Genockey said that users are required to return the car with a quarter tank.  Cllr George Lawlor wondered how far in advance people needed to book the cars and Mr Genockey said that 60 per cent were booked within an hour of required journey time.  Director of Services Tony Larkin said that it was a 'great initiative and the way of the future' and asked how it worked in terms of returning the car. Mr Genockey said that in Dublin they used parking permits while in Cork there were designated spaced for the cars. Wexford People 
