cars
{ John Shine 
    April 22 2014 05:03 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/you-really-need-to-know-this-before-buying-a-secondhand-car-30208450.html }
IT can be so difficult sometimes to know if you are getting a good deal when you are buying a second-hand car. Here are some tips on what to look out for before you buy, the questions to ask and the pitfalls to avoid. 1. When checking out a car, use a "buyers' checklist" such as that on www.consumerhelp.ie, so you know the right questions to ask.  These include: what is the correct mileage?; has the car ever been crashed?; how many previous owners?; is there any outstanding finance on the car?; what is the service log of the car? 2. You also have the option of checking the history of insurance claims or crashes on websites such as www. cartell.ie, www.motorcheck.ie or www.mywheels.ie for a small fee. 3. It is important to check out the car fully before buying. If you are not familiar with cars then you should get an independent mechanic to look it over for you. When you are test-driving the car, turn off the radio and air-conditioning and make sure there are no strange noises or smells of oil, petrol or diesel.  4. Always ask for the relevant documents when you buy a car – a written warranty stating what it covers and its duration; the car's service book; a car handbook /manual; a signed receipt for payment; the National Car Test certificate if the car is over four years old and/or the Vehicle Registration Tax certificate if the car has been imported. Receive these before making any payment. 5. If dealing with a trader, ask if they are part of a trade association, for example the Society of Irish Motor Industry. This requires them to follow certain business standards.  6. Check the car you are buying is not under a hire purchase agreement. This information is available (for a small fee) from Hire Purchase Information Limited. If the car is under a hire purchase agreement then the seller does not actually own it and does not have the right to sell it to you. 7. Ask for two sets of keys as it may prove expensive later on to purchase a second key.  Finally, always meet a private seller at their home address in daylight and check that the documentation matches this address.  * Don't hand over any payment unless you are completely happy to buy the car. * Don't feel pressured into buying it. * Always pay by bank draft or cheque, never with cash. WHEN THINGS GO WRONG Your consumer rights vary depending on whether you buy from a dealer/trader or private seller.  If from a dealer, you have some protection under consumer law. If privately, you do not have the same rights.  If you think a car has been 'clocked' – the odometer reader has been changed to make the car appear to have driven a shorter distance that it actually has – then contact the gardai or the National Consumer Agency's Helpline on 1890 432 432. If there is something wrong with the car contact the seller immediately and ask what they intend to do about it. If the car is under warranty, check its terms and conditions. If the seller is a member of SIMI, you may be able to go through its complaints process.  If the amount involved does not exceed €2,000, you have the option of pursuing the seller through the Small Claims process. If you bought a car privately, you cannot do so but you can still consider taking legal action. When purchasing something never forget the old adage – let the buyer beware. Good luck with your purchase. John Shine is Director of Compliance and Enforcement Division at the National Consumer Agency Indo Motoring 
