cars
{  
    October 08 2009 03:22 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/localnotes/forged-signature-charge-against-woman-struck-out-27567024.html }
A woman who admitted forging the signature of her ex-partner on a vehicle registration certificate had a summons struck out by Judge Denis McLoughlin at Sligo Court. Judge McLoughlin found the facts proven against Ann Higgins, Rockfield Manor, Coolaney, but said he was "not entirely happy" with the motives of her former partner John Keegan junior in the matter. The court heard that Keegan, of Kinsella, Calry, had given Ms. Higgins €7,400 to purchase a red Renault Megane car. Subsequently she had left it back at his house, and had signed his name in place of hers on the vehicle registration certificate. Defending solicitor, Mr. Gerry McGovern, accused Keegan of trying to cause Ms. Higgins maximum embarrassment, pain and suffering and of trying to degrade her in having her before the court. Garda Matthew Murphy said in evidence that he was on mobile patrol in Sligo town on April 17th when at 9.36p.m. he received a call to attend at the home of John Keegan junior. He went there with Garda Mark Sweeney and Garda Lisa Sewell. Garda Murphy said he spoke to Mr. Keegan who had explained to him that his ex-partner, Ann Higgins, had left a red Renault Megane on his premises and further that there was a civil case underway in relation to money owed to him for this motorcar. Mr. Keegan added that his ex-partner was the registered owner of the car. On April 30th, Garda Murphy had taken a statement of complaint from John Keegan in which he alleged that Ann Higgins had forged his signature on the registration certificate of the car and transferred ownership of the vehicle into his name, without his consent. Mr. Keegan repeated that Ann Higgins was the registered owner and that she had signed his name on the registration certificate. Witness said he had acquired the original certificate from the motor tax office. On June 7th last he had taken a cautioned statement from Ann Higgins in the presence of Garda Lisa Sewell in relation to the matter at her home in Rockfield Manor. Garda Murphy read the statement to the Court and in it Ann Higgins said that in 2006 she met John Keegan junior. Previously they had been together but it had been "on and off." In July 2007, she started training as a driving tester in the Carrick-onShannon area and because her car was dual controlled and her employers might think she was giving lessons, she needed a second car. A brother of Ms. Higgins had offered to lend her money to buy the car, but John Keegan, with whom she was in a relationship at the time, did not want this. At this time Mr. Keegan was in Poland working and would ring her "ten times a day" making sure that she did not let her brother buy the car for her. "John clearly stated that he wanted to buy the car for me. He said he loved me and wanted to marry me and most of all he wanted to be part of my life and this was to prove how much he loved me, him buying the car," the statement said. When he came back from Poland, John Keegan junior had given her the money as a gift to buy the car. All he wanted in return was for him "to be the man and for me to marry him", Ms. Higgins added in her statement. John Keegan had given her €7,000 to by the car and on August 3rd, 2007, he had driven her up to the Renault Garage in Carraroe to buy a car. On that day she bought a red Renault Megane for €7,000 and she then became the registered owner of the vehicle. The statement said that John Keegan junior had then returned to Poland on the following Sunday and for the next few days he would be asking Ms. Higgins what the kids thought of what he had bought for her. Herself and John would have "fallen out regularly" and for the first while he would always be saying 'don't forget what I bought you' and that he wouldn't do this for anybody else and this was to prove what Ms. Higgins meant to him. The statement added that John Keegan would text her regularly and was always bringing up that she owed him about the car. They would then go out again and things would be fine and he "only said these things in a moment of madness" in his words. On March 14th last, she and John Keegan junior split up for good. She said that John Keegan was harassing her for the car and on April 1st she filled in the registration certificate for the car and signed it over to John Keegan as he had previously said to her "f.....in sign it over." She admitted signing John Keegan;s name on the registration certificate, but only because he had told her to do so. Ms. Higgins described the verbal abuse John Keegan used to give her as "something else." Her statement added that she had posted the log book/ registration certificate to Shannon, not knowing that she had left his address out on it. On the evening of April 17th, she dropped the car down to John Keegan junior's house in Calry. He had guaranteed her that the vehicle would be back on her front street that night. "I realise what I done was wrong, signing John Keegan's name on the registration certificate, but it was in the heat of the moment from abusive calls," Ms. Higgins' statement said. John Keegan junior said he had contacted Garda Matthew Murphy about the car and the fact that a person had forged his signature on the registration certificate for it. He explained that he had previously been in a relationship with Ann Higgins and while going out with her gave her €7,400 to buy the car, a red Renault Megane, which was then registered in her name. They broke up in March of this year and Ann Higgins kept the car in her possession while they were broken up. On Friday, April 17th, the car arrived at his house at Kinsellagh, Calry. Ann Higgins had driven it there and parked it in the front driveway. That night the Gardai arrived at his home and Keegan said he had no idea that the car was registered in his name. On Monday, April 20th, he went to the Motor Taxation Office in Sligo and got a copy of the logbook for the car and found that his name had been put on it. He had given no one permission to sign his name on the logbook. Answering Mr. McGovern, Keegan said he had known Ann Higgins for ten to twelve years. He said he would not call the matter "a lovers quarrel" and explained that he had given Ann Higgins money. She was in trouble and needed help. They were in a relationship and he gave her money. Mr. McGovern asked could he not have picked up the telephone and spoke to Ms. Higgins, rather than put her through pain and suffering to degrade her. Keegan replied that on several occasions he had made contact with Ms. Higgins, but she had no time to talk to him. Mr. McGovern asked "why in the name of God" Keegan had called the Gardai for Ms. Higgins and wondered if it was because he was upset their relationship was over. Keegan added that in August 2007 there was an agreement that he would get paid for the car. When Mr. McGovern put it to him that the matter was all about their relationship and "getting at this lady", Keegan said if he could have avoided being in Court he would have. It was the last thing he wanted. He further denied telling Ms. Higgins to sign the car over to him. Ruling as stated, Judge McLoughlin said he was "not entirely happy" with Keegan's motives. He was inclined to agree with Mr. McGovern's assertion that he wanted to cause Ms. Higgins "maximum embarrassment". Judge McLoughlin added that he had to find each person as they came before the court and Ms. Higgins was a person of totally upright character previously. 
