cars
{  
    May 25 2008 03:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/an-exercise-in-damage-control-while-on-holidays-26448799.html }
IF you've ever driven through the Canadian Rockies, you'll know that the best time to spot a hungry grizzly or awkward moose on highways is near dawn or dusk. You'll also know that you're more likely to be involved in a road collision with a moose than a grizzly bear. As the antlers on a moose can be up to two meters wide, a collision with one of these creatures could cause severe damage to you and your car. Such collisions have been known to take off car roofs. Appalling enough as such an accident would be, if you've hired a car and haven't read your car rental contract carefully, you could be in for an even bigger shock. Say you rent a car which is damaged in a crash while you are on holiday. You may not realise it but, even if you did not cause the crash, your credit card could be charged for the damage to the car. Although you should get your money back if you were not at fault, it could take a year or more -- as well as the involvement of a consumer watchdog or the courts -- to secure your refund. "In certain circumstances, car rental contracts put a lot of liability on consumers, without allowing for discussion with the company in case of doubt," says a report on car rental contracts published by Dublin consumer lobby group, the European Consumer Centre (ECC), last month. The report cited the case of a French tourist who rented a car in Ireland while on holidays with his family. The hired car was severely damaged in an accident due to another driver's mistake. Although the police issued a statement confirming that the tourist was not at fault, the car rental company still charged his credit card €1,200 and promised to refund this once all the red tape had been cleared up. "After his return to France, this consumer was in constant correspondence with the car rental company for over a year but he did not get his refund," said the ECC report. The company reimbursed the tourist only after the ECC stepped in on his behalf. If you are at fault for an accident and the car you hired is damaged, your insurance usually covers you. However, you may have to pay an excess -- the part of a claim you must cover yourself -- of a few thousand euro, depending on the extent of the damage and type of cover you have. When you hire a car on holiday, what happens if you get charged for damage caused by someone who used the car before or after you rented it? This is not unheard of -- almost half of the car rental complaints received by the ECC last year arose after consumers were charged for damage which they did not cause. In many cases, consumers were not even told that their credit card was being charged to cover the damage. For example, an Irish man who travelled to France recently hired a car. He returned the car to the hire company outside normal working hours. This meant the car was not inspected by the company at the time. "After he came back to Ireland, €381.15 was charged to his credit card without any explanation," said the ECC report. "When the consumer contacted the car rental company, he was informed that the windscreen was cracked. According to the consumer, the car was in perfect working order when returned." The problem with situations like this is that it's your word against that of the car rental company. And, as the car hire company has your credit card as well as the power (through the rental agreement you signed) to charge your credit card for any damage, in many cases you're on the back foot if a dispute arises. 
