cars
{ By Edd Dracott, Press Association 
    October 30 2018 03:06 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/and-finally/if-driverless-cars-took-voice-commands-these-songs-would-cause-the-most-carnage-37474940.html }
Voice commands and tech have a long-standing romance with humorous misunderstandings, but if said malfunctions were applied to your vehicle things might turn from funny to chaotic pretty quickly. This is the discussion being had on Reddit, where user LLCoolDave5 asked: “If self driving cars took voice commands literally, which song on the radio would cause the most chaos?” Here are 11 of the best responses. 1.  Comment from discussion sixesand7s’s comment from discussion "If self driving cars took voice commands literally, which song on the radio would cause the most chaos?".
   
 2. From user Wonton001 “Cha-Cha Slide.”   
 3.  Comment from discussion KieshaK’s comment from discussion "If self driving cars took voice commands literally, which song on the radio would cause the most chaos?".
   
 4. From user brock_lee “‘Take me to the river…. drop me in the water’ (Talking Heads)”   
 5.  Comment from discussion justinsayin’s comment from discussion "If self driving cars took voice commands literally, which song on the radio would cause the most chaos?".
   
 6. From user fishypaw “Don’t Stop – Fleetwood Mac.”   
 7.  Comment from discussion Jefticles’s comment from discussion "If self driving cars took voice commands literally, which song on the radio would cause the most chaos?".
   
 8. From user laineDdednaHdeR “I drove my car into a bridge… I don’t care!”   
 9.  Comment from discussion randompoint52’s comment from discussion "If self driving cars took voice commands literally, which song on the radio would cause the most chaos?".
   
 10. From user Landler656 “A lot of people going to Paradise City.”   
 11.  Comment from discussion littelmo’s comment from discussion "If self driving cars took voice commands literally, which song on the radio would cause the most chaos?".
   
 Let’s hope automated voice commands for cars don’t come too soon. PA Media 
