cars
{  
    December 04 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/are-you-buying-a-new-or-second-hand-car-our-experts-answer-your-questions-38750303.html }
Car-value expert Gillian Keogh teams up with Motoring Editor Eddie Cunningham to help you make the right choice with your next purchase. Gillian is Editor of a monthly guidebook on the values of used cars produced by the Motor Trade Publishers team. The team supplies a car-valuing service to the motor trade, insurance companies and finance houses. Q I am trying to decide whether to buy a new car or keep the one I have. I usually change every two years. I get a loan and pay it back. My budget is €12,000 plus trade-in (Volkswagen Jetta CL 2.0TDi); annual mileage: 16,000km. Mileage to date is 32,733km. I am the only driver and get it serviced with Volkswagen. I like a car with good boot space. What do you think of the T-Roc? Do I keep what I have as the mileage is low but then will it lose value if I keep it for another year? Would I stay with a diesel or change to petrol? Any suggestions would be helpful. Gillian: I like the T-Roc and the way the market is going, you would be better off buying a petrol. The Jetta doesn't hold value very well. I'd suggest moving it on now as it's discontinued. The T-Roc is a good move, but I would go for a 181 model in the new year rather than a 201. Buying brand new every time means you are taking a huge hit each time. By buying a two-year-old, you will limit the amount you lose when you sell it on. Also, you will not need such a large loan. But if you like the idea of a new plate every two years then a new T-Roc will be a tight squeeze with your budget and trade-in. Shop around for the best cost to change. Other options include the SEAT Ateca and Skoda Karoq, both part of the VW Group - the best place to go back to with your Jetta. They are all priced around the same for similar spec. Take a spin in all three to see which takes your fancy most. Eddie: I think I'd guide towards a saloon and the one that comes immediately to mind is the Skoda Octavia. Boy does it have a big boot. I agree with Gillian: you should buy a two-year-old in January. Changing every second year is financially severe. Q I have a 171 hybrid Toyota Yaris which I bought on a three-year PCP and am due to change this January. But I have a dilemma. I want to give my daughter driving lessons as a birthday present. Because all electrics and hybrids are automatic, and my young driver will be practising on, and using my automatic for the foreseeable, I'd like her to take automatic driving lessons. But the insurance company which offers 12 lessons and a good insurance deal for learners, told me they do not have any automatic instructor cars in their fleet. I am amazed at this, given the burgeoning EV and hybrid market. Therein lies my dilemma - will I now have to change back to a petrol car for another three years just to teach my daughter to drive? It seems an environmentally unfriendly and frustrating option. Can you suggest a way out, please? I am fond of my little Yaris. Gillian: I like the Yaris hybrid too and so I say stick with it. I have thought about this situation as I also drive a hybrid and have kids. They are a few years away from lessons just yet, but I would like them to learn with a manual gearbox, even though I do expect they will drive a hybrid or electric by the time they are on the road alone. I would suggest your daughter takes her lessons with the school, but uses your car to learn driving awareness. I am surprised to hear the school doesn't have any automatic instructor cars. I think it would be a shame for your daughter not learn manual driving as well. Eddie: I followed up on your query with Aviva and was told much the same as you. I think you are on to something but I don't think you'll get satisfaction in the timeframe in which your daughter needs to get lessons. I think you have no choice but to take the manual course and use, as Gillian suggests, your much-loved Yaris for her getting well acquainted with driving generally. Sorry, but that is the best option as of now. Q We're buying a car for the first time as we're moving out of central Dublin for a place of our own in the countryside. However, we will still work in the Dublin area. My partner and I can use public transport but will need a small car for the weekend. We have a budget of €10,000 and reckon we'd do no more than 10,000km a year. What would you advise? Gillian: Your budget will get you into a 2014 Yaris hybrid which might sound a little old in the new year but it wouldn't bother me in this model. If you wanted something a little newer, the Ford Fiesta is an option. A 161-reg plate Fiesta is possible in Zetec or Titanium spec. The Kia Rio 1.25 is another good option, as is a SEAT Ibiza. Eddie: I'd add a Volkswagen Polo 1-litre and even more so a Mazda2 which is an oft-overlooked and underestimated car. Q I've driven a Corolla for many years but I want to change to something sporty and more powerful. What kind of sports car will I get for €35,000? I would like something two or three years old. Is it too much to hope for a BMW 3-series diesel? I do about 17,500km a year. Gillian: For that money, you can get something much sportier than a 3-series. A three-year old 420d M Sport would be the BMW I'd be going for. It also needs to be automatic and in the right colour. Plenty have been brought over from the UK, which generally have spec that's higher than standard. They can often come with higher mileage though so make sure to check before getting blinded by a good price. A 171 in January should have around 60,000km. As you do average enough driving, you can afford to go for one with a bit more over this, but always check service history and go for the best warranty on offer. With such a new BMW, I would say buy from a BMW dealer or a reputable dealer. An Audi A5 would be next on my list. Again, you would be looking at a three-year-old in the new year and I would search for an S Line model and automatic. The great thing about this one is that it's a new model that only hit Irish roads in May of 2017. It's sporty, classy and if you go for the 190bhp model, you'll enjoy the power. Eddie: Mmmmm lovely cars. Can't argue with those choices. Except to add an AMG-line Mercedes C-Class coupé. Lovely motor too. Something is telling me to mention considering a really well-specced Volkswagen GTi or an older Golf R too. You want sport - you got it. Q My son has passed his test and is looking to buy a small car to get him the 20km a day to college in Dublin. Needless to say he has little or no money so we'll help out to give him a total budget of €7,000/€8,000. What would you recommend as we haven't a clue? Gillian: What I recommend for you and for him would be different and I am all for the young people, so here are my "happy son" options. He will want to bring friends the odd time so while you are saying small, I am not going to go too small. The Ford Focus is always a good option for a well-priced, reliable, good looking car. With your extra help, a 2012 1.0-turbo Zetec is the one to go for with an odometer reading of around 110,000km. This one might be a bit scarce, as will most petrol hatchbacks around this money, but a Hyundai i30 would be nice. They didn't come all that well specced but some have half leather seats. Eddie: I always tend to go oriental for secondhand buys above six or seven years old. So for me it's the Honda Jazz, the KIA Rio, Hyundai i30, Mazda 3 or the Toyota Yaris. Indo Motoring 
