cars
{  
    September 04 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/motorists-should-take-a-hike-26315676.html }
HALF of motorists use their cars for trips of less than one mile. But, if everyone left their car behind each week for just one trip, there would be 1.4 million fewer journeys in the greater Dublin area. A new campaign launched yesterday by Transport Minister Noel Dempsey is asking drivers to consider walking, cycling or using public transport as an alternative for some trips. Mr Dempsey said he wanted to see a national safe route to school programme so that schoolchildren could have a safe and healthy alternative than the car. He wanted to see a world-class public transport system in Dublin so that people have a real choice other than the car. Tackled The One Small Step initiative, by the Dublin Transportation Office, could be a waste of time until our public transport deficit is tackled, according to the Automobile Association. New research published yesterday by the DTO in Dublin and the Leinster counties shows: l 52pc of people said the car was their most often used way of getting around. l 26pc of people think only of their car for all trips. l 40pc of car owners don't consider any travel options other than the car. l 27pc of all respondents said the car is preferable for short journeys of a mile or less. l Half of all car owners (47pc) take their car on these short journeys. l 55pc of short journey car users said they were unlikely to consider walking instead. l Only 3pc of these short journey car users said they were very likely to consider walking for short journeys of a mile or less, instead of using the car. The One Small Step campaign is asking car drivers if they really need to use their cars to encourage other options. John Henry, DTO chief executive said: "If everyone left their car behind for just one trip each week, there would be 200,000 fewer car trips every day in the Greater Dublin Area, less traffic and less pollution. "We are urging all car users to give this their serious consideration in their own and everyone else's interests." Motorists "Nobody is telling motorists to stop using their cars altogether but what we have to realise is that it is not sustainable for us as individuals to continually increase car usage year after year," he added. But AA spokesman Conor Faughnan said that while he applauds the concept, it won't make a huge difference until Ireland addresses its "public transport deficit". The fact that only about 20pc of the population uses public transportation is "ludicrous", he said. "I don't know if there's another city in the world with a proportion like that. But even with this huge over-dependence on private car, every public transport asset that we possess is stuffed full to the gills. We actually don't have a disproportionate amount of car ownership, we have a public transport deficit. Transport "We do not have a car problem, we do not have a self-indulgent population who refuse to use public transport. We have a major public transport deficit and that's what I think we have to focus on," he said. "We have to acknowledge that the problem here is 50 years and more of neglect in the public transport infra-structure which has left us in this mess." 
