cars
{  
    November 17 2019 06:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-talk/the-cars-the-star-38696749.html }
With the prospect of a new James Bond film around the corner the typical Aston Martin anecdotes will be trotted out and that picture of Connery leaning against his DB5 will be reprinted to remind folks of 007s decades-long fondness for powerful British sports cars. Bond is inextricably linked with cars, from dodging Las Vegas police in a Mustang Mach 1 to slicing a Renault 11 in three in the centre of Paris. But 007 is not the only celluloid car buff and the DB5 is not the only recognisable car to have a film role. We could talk about Bullitt the slow-moving 1968 Steve McQueen thriller with the famed car chase which saw two Dodge Chargers getting thrashed. Amazingly, one of the Mustangs - the so called pretty-car used for close-ups - remerged after decades in hiding recently while the other Mustang, the stunt car which did the jumps, was discovered after being thought lost for decades. 
Close
 Star turns: Sean Connery with the Aston Martin DB5 in Goldfinger / Unsurprisingly, Ford still cash in on cinema's most famous chase, using the King of Cool superimposed into modern footage to sell the Ford Puma back in the nineties, while - if you have the cash - a 5.0 Bullitt Mustang, complete with Highland Green paintjob, can be sitting on your driveway straight out of a Ford showroom. Then, of course, there is Smokey and the Bandit, the entertainingly daft 1977 comedy starring Burt Reynolds. The Pontiac Firebird Trans Am was putting out a feeble 200bhp at best from 6.6-litres by '77, but that was enough to keep him and Sally Field ahead of the Pontiac LeMans-driving Jackie Gleeson for 96 loud, improbable minutes. Producers wrecked so many that the car used in the final shot had no engine and needed to be pushed into frame. Then, for the real petrolheads, there was Vanishing Point. The 1971 drama starring Barry Newman as Kowalski, an ex-racer turned car delivery person or something. It is not important. What is important is the white Dodge Challenger he drove at breakneck speed across endless desert while encountering a snake catcher, some inept robbers and a naked girl riding a motorcycle - all while baked on a cocktail of increasingly elaborate drugs. Needless to say, it ends badly. From here, more and more endlessly bad road movies piled into cinemas and a film where the car's the star needed a unique angle to stand out. Mad Max, George Miller's 1979 low-budget breakthrough, wasn't strictly a road movie but cars played a central part, as Mel Gibson's character was a police driver for a living. The movie opens with various XA and XB Ford Falcons colliding with roadside fixtures and innocent bystanders while a rogue character named Nightrider screams an apocalyptic tirade into the police radio of a stolen Holden Monaro. Enter Max with his V8 Interceptor, a '74 351 V8 XB Falcon, and before long Nightrider piles his car into some badly signposted roadworks. The famed black coupe, a 1973 Falcon XB Coupe again with a 351 V8 and with the plastic drop snout, makes an appearance later in the film and is now widely copied. The original car featured a mechanical supercharger, which was non-functional. Even the most recent outing, with Tom Hardy filling in for Mel, has an XB Coupe in there as a nod to the original. 
Close
 The DeLorean DMC 12 / While not a 'car movie', The Blues Brothers is worth a mention because of a series of extended and rather stunning chase scenes involving the Elwood Brothers' ex-police 1974 Dodge Monaco. Cop suspension, cop brakes and a 440 plant that runs real good on regular gas was enough to allow the Brothers to outrun dozens of police offers as they laid waste to a shopping centre and half of the centre of Chicago. This 1980 classic saw 103 cars destroyed, which was a record at the time.  In the eighties, car chases became less and less of a feature in cinema but we car bores still had our celluloid moments. Perhaps cinema's most famous car after Bond's Aston was the DeLorean DMC 12 in Back to the Future. Unlike the Aston, Mustang, Challenger and even the Trans Am, the plot of this 1985 epic centred on the DeLorean and the aftermarket Flux Capacitor for time travelling. Numerous DeLoreans were used in filming and Michael J. Fox regularly had to thrash the cars for real for close-up stunt shots. It isn't really a driving movie - even though critics bemoaned the 2.8 V6 engine for lack of power, the DMC should really have outrun the Libyans' Volkswagen bus. That said, it did wonders for the DeLorean image and fitted perfectly with its eighties futuristic feel. Pity the company that built it collapsed two years earlier. The list is endless: Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, that infernal Herbie Beetle, Clint's prized Ford Gran Torino in, well, Gran Torino. Cars, either immaculate or battered, seem to be the ultimate Hollywood prop. 
Close
 Steve McQueen's 1968 Mustang / Sunday Independent 
