cars
{  
    August 11 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/news/car-sharing-initiative-comes-to-greystones-36012432.html }
An innovative car-sharing company has expanded into Greystones on a trial basis. GoCar, a car-sharing company that enables people to hire a car on an hourly basis via a website, is now available in Greystones. There is also a base at Bray Dart Sation.  All insurance, tax, fuel (up to a certain limit) is included in the €8 per hour rate.  Cllr Jennifer Whitmore first raised the potential for a trial of the car-sharing company in Greystones in April of this year with the Municipal District and sought to have the option of car sharing facilities incorporated into the recent parking by-laws for the county.  Cllr Whitmore said: 'Car sharing is a innovative idea for people who may need a car occasionally but don't want to have to buy a car or deal with costs of tax, insurance and maintenance. It could also replace a family's second car, as that car usually ends up sitting in the driveway and doesn't get much use. Research has shown that each shared car replaces between 10-15 private cars. While acknowledging that the service was being introduced on a trial basis, Cllr Whitmore said she hoped that the 'residents of the area feel that it is a useful addition to the town.' GoCar is currently seeking approval from Wicklow County Council to further extend its bases across the town, offering increased access for residents and businesses to car sharing. The company hopes to see expansion of Greystones GoCar bases ahead of European Mobility Week this September, during which the EU is encouraging local authorities to launch and promote permanent measures to enabled bike and car sharing. Councillor Gerry Walsh, Cathaoirleach of Greystones Municipal District, welcomed the arrival of car sharing to Greystones, saying that it's ideal for people who only need occasional access to a car but don't want to own one or families who need a second car, with pay as you go pricing and no subscription charges. Cllr Walsh said that car sharing reduces car dependency, congestion, noise and air pollution, and frees up land traditionally used for parking spaces.  Colm Brady, Managing Director of GoCar, said: 'We are delighted that GoCar has now launched in Greystones and more people can avail of car sharing across the country. With GoCar planning to double the number of vehicles available in Ireland this year, we are calling on Greystones residents to let us know where exactly they would like to see car sharing spaces so we can make car sharing accessible to as many people as possible.' For more information about GoCar visit GoCar.ie. Bray People 
