cars
{  
    October 09 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/are-you-buying-a-new-or-second-hand-car-our-experts-answer-your-questions-38574576.html }
Car-value expert Gillian Keogh teams up with Motoring Editor Eddie Cunningham to help you make the right choice with your next purchase. Gillian is Editor of a monthly guidebook on the values of used cars produced by the Motor Trade Publishers team. The team supplies a car-valuing service to the motor trade, insurance companies and finance houses. Q I am a single mother-of-three and I want to buy a bigger car than my current Toyota Corolla (2007, 210,000km). I have a budget of €12,000 (not a cent more) and I want to get something bigger for my growing family. Please tell me what to do as I am at my wit's end worrying that my car will let me down and be worth nothing at all. It does need repairs which I don't want to spend money on. Gillian: The best value if you need a diesel lies in the saloon segment. They are great value for money now. Around €12,000 will get you back into a Toyota with the Avensis. You should pick up a 2014 model for the money which is a good jump from your 07-reg. The Skoda Superb has lots of rear leg and head room; the boot is enormous. A 2013 is certainly affordable. Look for good service history and opt for high spec and you won't go wrong. If you wanted something a little newer, the Opel Insignia is a good choice and you should be able to find a well-specced 151/152 to suit. Eddie: I think the Peugeot 508 saloon would give you a good run for your money as would the KIA Optima. I'm also suggesting a look at the Volkswagen Passat. Q I currently drive an Audi A6 S Line saloon 181. I love the look and feel of the car and how it drives etc. I have it on a PCP deal since the end of Q1 2018 for €41,500. Currently I have 33,000km on clock. In May, I noticed a rubbing sound from the brakes first thing in the morning, but it would be gone after about 2km or 3km. My local Audi garage confirmed a brake disc/calliper issue which was showing use not consistent with mileage. They replaced all discs and callipers under warranty. After a couple of weeks, the low/dull pitch sound returned. The car was going in for its first service and I reported the issue. The technicians kept the car for over a week. They replaced the brake master cylinder. Last Thursday, I got the car back only to still hear the same sound each morning. They have taken in my car again. As I am on a PCP plan where I effectively rent the car, what rights do I have as a customer if there is an ongoing persistent issue? I understand the car's ownership is with the leasing company. I believe I've one of those one-in-a-100 cars that will give trouble. Can I look for a change in car now mid-way through my three-year PCP? Or would I be better to leave it until the contract runs out? I don't want now to buy out a car that has had issues from an early stage. Gillian: It does sound like you have bought one of those cars. It would have come with a warranty that will span the term of your PCP so I think stick it out and when your PCP term is up, push for the best value being offered (you will need to make sure all terms have been met on servicing, km reading, conditions etc) and move on. As far as I am aware, you can't just hand it back. Your dealer has to be allowed the chance to fix the issue, which they appear to be doing. I suggest you follow up on your consumer rights to see if some alternative can be reached. Eddie: I think you need to talk to your dealer in a frank manner on this. You are not happy with it and it's dragging on. Would you consider changing now? Lots of people do, you know. If the dealer can offer you a deal that you feel is good enough, why not kill two birds with the one stone? It shouldn't affect your repayments too much. Otherwise you may have to dig in and say there is a limit to the number of times a product can give trouble without a permanent cure. Q I am a 35-year-old single woman and I want to buy a new car for around €30,000. I have a 12-reg petrol Golf as a trade-in. I'd like to buy something smart and classy but not a sports car. I have been thinking about this for some time but only seem to get more confused. So, could you give me three options please? Gillian: I am not that far past 35 so I hope our tastes are the same. I would take a look at a Mercedes CLA, BMW 4 Series and an Audi A5 (in that order). Not sure if you class these as sporty as they are coupés, but they have five doors so will hopefully suit you. You mentioned you wanted a new car. If this is "new to you" ie: used, then these are my top three picks. If you want a brand new 192, or 201 if you wait until the new year, my suggestions are the new BMW 1 Series, new Mercedes A Class or Audi A3. They are smart and classy but are smaller than my previous three choices. I would be torn between the BMW (nicer drive) and Mercedes (smarter interior). Eddie: Gillian sums it up with that last sentence: BMW v Mercedes. You need to drive both; take your time in them. Lots of time. And I would definitely give the Audi A3 a good look. Q We are going to have to sell our Land Rover Discovery (17-reg) because we're downsizing with the family mostly reared. We'd have a budget of €45,000 including the trade-in. There will be just the two of us most of the time but there could be two more passengers at the weekends. What would you advise? We need a diesel. Gillian: The hardest thing about buying a Land Rover is what to drive next. I would stick with the brand to get the best trade-in value and put it against an Evoque. The R-Dynamic 2WD starts at around €46,000 so a tad over budget but it's a brand-new model. I like the current Audi Q range. The Q2 doesn't look or feel that much smaller than the Q3 but comes with a much better price tag. A high spec 1.6 diesel costs from €36,240. A similar spec in the Q3 with a 2.0-litre engine costs €45,950 for the manual. The Volvo XC40 might be up your street too. I expect it to hold its value well over the term of your ownership and is a real contender for you. Eddie: I'd have no qualms in directing you towards the Volvo XC60. It's roomier than most of the models Gillian has so expertly outlined, but I think this is more what I'd have in mind if I was stepping down from a Discovery. Q Should I hold onto my 15-reg Ford Fiesta for another year or two before buying electric? It is not giving me trouble, but will I lose more on depreciation if I try to trade it in say January 12 months? I travel around 300km a week and can home charge the car no bother but wonder if buying one next year will deprive me of a broader choice and better range the year after? Or the year after that? Gillian: Your choice will certainly widen if you wait another 12-24 months. The current electric range is limited compared with other fuel types. Depreciation on a 4/5-year-old Fiesta is around €1,200/€1,400, but you will have another year or two (hopefully) trouble-free driving. Fiestas always sell well. You won't be short of buyers when you go to sell/trade-in, so long as it has been looked after. I say stick with it for a while until the right electric model takes your fancy. Eddie: I find myself agreeing with Gillian (not always the case) and think you should hold on. There is not enough choice at the moment and your car is going well. So stick with it and wait for wider choice. Indo Motoring 
