cars
{ Gene Kerrigan 
    January 04 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/time-to-hit-reckless-drivers-where-it-hurts-26216340.html }
LET's congratulate ourselves on the drop in road carnage. Down to a mere 341 deaths, 35 fewer than 2002, the best in 40 years. Mind you, let's keep the  back-slapping down a bit. We don't want to upset the thousands of relatives of the  hundreds of people who needlessly died on the roads last year. For the grieving spouses,  the parents who lost children, the children who lost LET's congratulate ourselves on the drop in road carnage. Down to a mere 341 deaths, 35 fewer than 2002, the best in 40 years. Mind you, let's keep the back-slapping down a bit. We don't want to upset the thousands of relatives of the hundreds of people who needlessly died on the roads last year. For the grieving spouses, the parents who lost children, the children who lost parents, the drop in road deaths is somewhat academic. These are not accidents; these are inevitable consequences of identifiable behaviour. One glaring fact at the centre of last year's road death statistics points the way towards saving perhaps another couple of hundred lives per year. This is the evidence that many drivers have a brutish mentality. Outside their cars they may be civilised. As drivers, they respond only to very blunt threats. Driver behaviour isn't affected much by the threat of fines. Today, when so many feel affluent (even if they are borrowing their affluence), a fine is no more than a nuisance. Drivers know the chances are they won't go to jail even if they kill someone, judges being such a compassionate lot when it comes to driving offences. And, frankly, the evidence is that many, many drivers believe their own freedom to take chances with speed or drink is more important than the risk to your child's life. But threaten them with penalty points and their behaviour changes. For years, nothing worked. We tried appealing to their conscience. We gave them scientific facts about speed and drink. We tried appealing to their self-interest - after all, so many of the idiots lose their own lives as a result of their behaviour. None of it works - but in the twelve months following the introduction of penalty points they adjusted their behaviour and killed 76 fewer people. It's that astonishing confirmation of the brutish mentality of so many drivers that suggests the way forward. There's a psychological truth that has to be confronted. Many drivers - mostly male - love their cars. We could theorize about this. Perhaps cars give them status, affirm their alleged skills and imaginary expertise, bring out a confidence bordering on arrogance. But, frankly, I don't want to wallow in that particular psychological mud. It's self-evident that a real, measurable threat to part them from their cars changes their behaviour. Without that measurable threat, drivers feel free to exercise their right to indulge in the thrills that only cars can give them. And if that costs the life of your child, that's a pity. Buying a car and paying insurance and tax and all the other costs seems to give so many a feeling that they've bought the right to do what they will. Watch them hurtle at terrifying speed down urban roads. If anything goes wrong, they can't possibly keep control. Many are in large vehicles, confident of their own survival. Stupid overtaking, mobile chatter, even reading at the wheel: all are observable every day, all deliberate decisions to take risks, and all kill. Joyriding is rampant. (There are people who recoil at the word. They say 'so-called joyriders', they refer to 'death riders'. However, 'joyriding' is a proper use of language - joyriding is speeding for the thrill of it.) Some do it in their expensive cars, some do it in inexpensive 'boy racer' jalopies, with darkened windows and go-faster stripes on the side. Some do it in their parents' cars, and others in ministerial cars. A small proportion of joyriding takes place in stolen cars. There are two kinds of behaviour responsible for a large proportion of road deaths - speed and drink. Even now, as we congratulate ourselves on bringing down the numbers, about 6,000 speeding crimes are detected every week. And every week 250 intoxicated drivers are arrested. Penalty points are a good move, but already - as they get used to the system - there's evidence that the prats feel more willing to take a risk. Twelve points before a driving ban are too many. A six-month driving ban is too little. There is one simple and brutally effective measure that will terrorise the prats into safer driving. Threaten to confiscate their cars. You're caught driving with drink, or over the speed limit, or dangerously - the State takes your car. Full stop. Not for six months or a year, for good. You may buy a new car if you wish, but it must have a two-foot-wide spot painted on the bonnet, to identify you as a prat. Anyone caught for a second offence has the second car confiscated and is banned from driving. Full stop. Not for six months or a year, for good. If you demonstrate that you lack the responsibility necessary to drive a deadly machine, you lose the right to drive. Full stop. If they're banned for life and they're caught driving another car, it too gets confiscated. (If they've borrowed the car, too bad. The lender will learn not to be so foolish.) And they get a mandatory jail sentence. Three years sounds good. Overnight, parents would stop allowing their kids to borrow the family Merc to go speeding. People who love their cars, people who depend on them for mobility or for holidays or for work, would adjust their behaviour. The evidence of the past year shows that. They would have to adjust to the fact that they're not just taking a chance with someone's life - they're taking a chance that they'll lose their car, and all right to drive, ever. The brutish mentality exposed by the success of the penalty points scheme suggests that this will work, where appeals to reason or compassion don't. By the way, want to know how to cut down parking offences overnight? People who double park, park on yellow lines or on pavements - the prats who make life more difficult for everyone every day - can be easily dissuaded. ABOLISH parking tickets. Abolish clamping. No more waste of court time, no more processing fines, no more chasing after the prats who don't bother paying the fines. Hit them where it hurts. Equip each traffic warden with a heavy hammer. Simple as that. Authorise the warden to administer the appropriate punishment to the offending car - up to a dozen whacks of the hammer, depending on the amount of trouble the parking offence has caused. The sheer horror at the thought of having their beloved car seriously damaged would force most drivers to stop being a nuisance to the rest of us. However, there would be some persistent offenders. The numbers of each whacked car would be taken, and any car caught for a second offence would be confiscated. The experience of the penalty points system suggests that the simplicity of the threat of taking away the beloved car will change behaviour. The penalty points system alone is a timid response to a deadly threat. The idiots get repeated chances to kill us. A brutish mentality needs a simple, unsubtle response. Take their cars. We can't legislate an end to accidents. There will always be lapses of concentration, mistakes, bad luck. But we can respond appropriately to the brutish mentality that sets a higher value on the pleasure of taking risks than it does on human life. While there has been progress, 341 deaths is no cause for celebration. It's a measure of our brutishness. 
