cars
{  
    July 13 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/news/the-strange-case-of-two-cars-and-six-crystal-chandeliers-27181409.html }
The strange case of two identical foreign cars and six crystal chandeliers was heard at Gorey District Court last Friday. Aileen Cripps, of 538, Chemin De Bourrage, 83510, Lorgues, France, denied a charge of dangerous driving at Baylands, Camolin, on January, 6, this year. The court heard how a silver Volkswagen Passat Estate with a yellow number plate overtook three cars and a tractor around a dangerous corner in the face of oncoming traffic between Ferns and Camolin on the N11 at around 8.55 on the morning of January 6 last. The driver who phoned in the report to the Gardaí, Ronan Cuddihy, took to the stand to testify to what he saw. He said that there were two cars and a tractor in front of him, and several cars behind. He saw the silver Passat in his rearview mirror moving in and out of the line of traffic. When the tractor pulled in on a straight stretch to let the cars pass by, the first two did so, and he was on the point of pulling out to pass, when the silver car pulled out from behind, overtook him, the two cars in front, and the tractor. At this stage it had gone into a turn on the wrong side of the road, narrowly avoiding the oncoming cars which had to veer in and flash their lights. He said he believed the first two letters on the plate of the speeding car were VT, but said he couldn't be sure. He rang the Gardaí and made his report. When he arrived in Gorey, he saw the car parked at the Garda Station. He said he identified it immediately as it was cluttered with material. Solicitor for the defendant Jack McEvoy questioned him closely, pointing out that the registration plate didn't begin with the letters VT, but read 2050 ZT 83. Mr. Cuddihy said he couldn't pick up the number as the car had started to gain significant speed. Mr. McEvoy also referred to the witness' statement to Gardaí in which he referred to the driver as 'he'. Mr. Cuddihy pointed out that this was just an expression he had used, and that he couldn't identify if the driver was male or female. Mr. McEvoy also pointed out to the defendant he hadn't said in his statement that he had seen the car outside the Garda Station. Mr. Cuddihy replied he had been asked about the incident itself. Garda Brennan also took to the stand, and said he had been alerted to the call about a car allegedly driving dangerously near the meat factory. He went out to Clough, and saw the Passat in a line of cars. He then turned around and followed it, contacting to the Station to get it stopped when it got to Gorey. The driver was duly stopped and gave her name as Aileen Cripps. Gda. Brennan arrested her at 9.40 a.m., and charged her with dangerous driving. She denied the charge. Jack McEvoy asked him how he knew the car. Gda. Brennan replied that it matched the description. Mr. McEvoy asked him did he notice anything in the back of the car. Gda. Brennan replied there appeared to be a lot of material in it. The solicitor told him there were six delicate glass chandeliers in the car. 'Not material to be transporting at 100 miles an house,' he pointed out. Garda Doherty took to the stand, and related how he stopped the driver Aileen Cripps. He had asked her if she had passed out any tractors, and she said she had. He also asked her if she had been in a hurry and she said she wasn't. Jack McEvoy then asked the judge to throw out the case as no evidence of where the alleged incident had occurred had been given. 'There is no proof of it being at Baylands,' he said. He was told the approach to the meat factory was mentioned, so Judge O Buachalla held against him on that point. Aileen Cripps then took to the stand and told the court that she had six French antique chandeliers worth between ?12,000 to ?15,000 for delivery to Dublin in the car. She left her home in Inistioge at 6,45 a.m., and had passed three tractors on the way. None of them were outside Ferns. 'I had to drive so slowly because of the French crystal chandeliers,' she said. She added that approaching Clough, a silver Passat with a yellow number plate passed her, and her husband had said 'Snap' as it was the same make as theirs. 'I wasn't in the position to pass any car,' she maintained, but admitted she didn't mention the chandeliers to the Gardaí at the time. The judge questioned her again about the other Passat, and why it wasn't mentioned to Gardaí. She said she wasn't asked about it. 'I didn't take it seriously at the time because I hadn't done anything,' she said. Her husband John Cripps took to the stand and denied Mr. Cuddihy's statement, and said the journey was completely uneventful. He also said he saw the other Passat. Jack McEvoy then submitted to the judge there must be a doubt. Mr. Cuddihy was recalled to the stand by the judge. He said he hadn't seen any other similar Passat car, and was quite same car, with the same packaging as was parked at the Garda Station. 'Another Passat packed in the same way would be too much of a coincidence,' he said, adding he still had no doubt it was the car he saw. Judge Donnchadh O Buachalla found the facts proven, and noted there were no previous convictions. Jack McEvoy pointed out the defendant had previously come back from France twice and the case hadn't gone ahead. The judge reduced the charge of dangerous driving to the lesser charge of careless driving, and fined her ?200, and ordered she pay ?80 witness expenses. The conviction was also to be endorsed on her licence. Recognisances were fixed in the event of an appeal. 
