cars
{ COLETTE BROOKS 
    June 18 2009 01:09 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/lifestyle/time-to-look-at-the-issue-of-hospital-car-parking-charges-27565073.html }
Hospitals. Not somewhere that many of us love visiting. Let's face it, unless there is a healthy newborn baby involved, a trip to the hospital often spells worry for ourselves or for someone we love. Therefore, you would hope that everything possible could be done to make the experience as pleasant as possible and on the whole it is. I have to say that I, like many others, do not particularly like visiting hospitals, whatever the reason, wherever I am, but both back when I lived in Manchester and since I have been in Sligo I have always been impressed by helpful, reassuring staff and comfortable facilities. However the one thing that really gets to me are the hospital car park charges. Now, maybe I am too young to remember properly but I am sure that hospitals never used to charge for their parking facilities whereas now this seems to apply to many hospitals across both Ireland and the UK. I first noticed it back in Manchester a few years ago when visiting my granddad in hospital. I was amazed at the fact I actually had to pay for the privilege to go and visit my granddad in hospital. At the time I accepted it. However when we were called to the hospital that one final time because he had passed away it felt so wrong that as I was desperately trying to get into the hospital as quickly as possible to be with my family, I was having to scramble about in my handbag to try to find some money to pay to park my car. To me it just seems that charging patients and visitors to park at a hospital is simply insensitive. Maybe I need to look it from the point of view of the hospitals. Perhaps these charges go some way to providing extra funds and some trusts in the UK have raised extra money for the hospitals because of the car park charges. However, the hospitals that have major car parking companies operating their car parks suggests that it is these companies who are profiting the most. It is not only the fact that you are charged to park somewhere that you would usually imagine to be free but it is also the fact that these car parks are patrolled, with staff walking and driving around the car parks ensuring that no one is trying to "cheat" the system, such as giving a ticket which still has a significant amount of time on it to someone else. I personally think that there is nothing wrong with this, if you have paid for, let's say four hours of time in the car park, you have reserved a space for that time and are entitled to it. If you only use the space for an hour and a half and you decided to kindly give the ticket to someone else it is your prerogative as technically you are still entitled to use that space so it should make no difference which car is in the space. Afterall, the space is still occupied for the same amount of time that you have paid for. However, you do this in view of an attendant and it is a different story. I know a woman who was called back to a hospital at around midnight, after she had just arrived home, having already spent a number of hours there. When she arrived at the hospital someone kindly gave her a ticket that still had a few hours left on it. The woman gratefully took the ticket, glad that it was one less thing that she had to deal with. However the car park attendant was patrolling the car park in a large vehicle and unfortunately spotted the ticket being given to the woman. He approached her and demanded to know if someone had given her the ticket as opposed to her buying it. It seems that, unlike the hospital staff, the car park attendants do not take into consideration what people visiting a hospital might be going through. Naturally there will be an argument for hospital car park charges which is that people take advantage of free car parks and if there were no charges members of the public would be using hospital car parks for shopping trips, nights out etc which would cause problems for genuine users of the hospital. I totally agree that this is true but surely there is some way of ensuring that this does not happen. Some sort of ticketing system that has to be verified in the hospital and a fine if you are using the car park for another reason. There could be a code system where the only way of getting the code to get out was from a member of hospital staff and that could only be given after you had been able to prove the reason that you were at the hospital in the first place. To be fair it is not across the board in Ireland. According to the Irish Patient's Association hospital charges across the Republic of Ireland does seem to vary with some hospitals charging nothing at all and others seeking up to €2.50 per hour. However, this does make things seem even more unfair as it should not be the case that where you live affects whether or not you are subject to hospital car parking charges. The charity Macmillan Cancer Support has been campaigning for an end to hospital car park charges arguing that in the UK the average cancer patient pays a cost of £325 in car park charges during the course of their treatment. This campaign does seem to be having an effect. In Wales car parking has been free since April 2008, except where hospitals have external contracts. These hospitals should be able to provide free parking from 2011. In Scotland free parking has been in place since 31 December 2008 and in Northern Ireland it is now free for chemotherapy and radiotherapy patients. But surely it should not be down to campaigns or petitions; these charges should never have been introduced in the first place. However, it does give some hope that they can be overcome and are obviously not as essential to the hospitals as patient care. Hospitals can provide enough worry and even if your visit is for a joyous reason, such as visiting a newborn, just consider how much this can cost depending on how long the patient is kept at the hospital and how often you visit. I can see that these car parks do provide jobs and in the recession this aspect should not be scorned. The charges may also provide hospitals with some much-needed funds. However, despite all this I still feel that there is a time and a place for hospital car park charges. And that time is never and the place is nowhere. 
