cars
{  
    January 29 2009 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/smart-consumer/its-a-good-time-to-drive-a-hard-bargain-when-buying-a-car-26525669.html }
Last week BMW Ireland introduced a new service, offering to source second hand cars in the UK for their customers, in order to save them the hassle of doing so. It's the sort of smart, lateral thinking that is required by all retailers now as their markets and cashflow shrink. New car sales are down over 60pc, yet imports have increased. If you are in the market for a car, you're probably thinking of a second-hand car. It's a good time to buy as there are great deals out there. Here's what you need to know before you buy. Once you decide what type of car you want, based on your usage, green values or aesthetics, you have to decide who you want to buy from -- a garage or an individual. If you buy from a garage you are protected by consumer legislation. This means that you are entitled to repair, replacement or refund if something goes wrong. You have the same legal protection whether you buy in the Republic, the North or in Britain. If you buy from a private seller it is not deemed to be a 'consumer' contract and you are, therefore, not protected by consumer law if something goes wrong. The only thing you can do if the seller won't help should something go wrong, is to take civil action against the seller in the courts. In either case, you need to be vigilant to ensure that you are getting what is advertised. View the car in daylight, preferably in dry conditions so that you see any scrapes and scratches. Also check for rust, tyres not of the same make and any sign of leaks, as well as functions such as lights, doors and wipers. There are many things you need to check in relation to the working of the vehicle, so really you should get a mechanic to look over the car and take it for a road test. Don't buy a car over the phone without having seen it. I heard of one person who bought in England and the car had broken down before he reached Holyhead. If the car is second-hand, you have to take into account its condition at the time of purchase, but the garage is still liable if something goes wrong. If you buy in the North from a garage, ask them about after-sales service. Try and get an agreement in writing that if something goes wrong a local garage can repair at the seller's expense, rather than you having to bring the car back to where you bought it. Remember if buying a used car outside Ireland you'll also have to pay the VRT on entry into Ireland, so factor this into the end cost. To get a full car history, description and finance check go to one of the many car-checking sites. It will cost you up to €35 but is money well spent. You can also input the car registration number (IRL or GB) for a quick free check on the make and colour, so at least you know you're not dealing with a dodgy vehicle. The car-checking companies can also provide a car inspection or engineer's report from €100 to €300. These are the things you are looking for: Eleven thousand cars a year are stolen in Ireland; this could be one of them. 
