cars
{  
    July 20 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/me-and-my-car-jane-mcdaid-26242635.html }
THINKHOUSE is the latest buzzword in the world of  public relations; the company has been making waves in all  the right circles for over a year now. One of the faces behind the name is Jane McDaid, who has a passion for the PR business, but her driving passion has to be her Rov THINKHOUSE is the latest buzzword in the world of public relations; the company has been making waves in all the right circles for over a year now. One of the faces behind the name is Jane McDaid, who has a passion for the PR business, but her driving passion has to be her Rover 600. "I think a car reflects the personality of the person who drives it. Some people like fun and funky type cars, sporty or whatever. I'm a bit more conservative and I think the Rover 600 is more me. It's very graceful, quite a traditional and conservative car. It's quite a masculine-looking car, but the front of the car has a nice smooth long line; stylish in a conservative way, not pretentious. It's a car that isn't overly stating anything which it what I like about it. "I hadn't any particular car in mind when I went looking to change. My first priority was to get a safe car. I felt safe in it and the Rover has the airbags, the ABS brakes and a good security system. The extras were just a sugar-coating for me. When I was a teenager, I had a Citroen 2CV. The car wouldn't even move. Back then I was only interested in how it looked, and it was cool, but now I'm more interested in how well it moves. A friend in the business recommended the Rover and when I took it for a test drive I literally drove up the road and said 'this is it'. "My last car was a 1.6. It was a Mazda 323F and it was powerful enough on the pick-up, but this car is more consistent. It's powerful and efficient. It has all the bits, like electric windows, electric mirrors a real novelty compared with my old car air-conditioning, which is amazing and I have it on all the time, alloy wheels, and full leather interior. I've never had leather seats in a car before and they are just so much more comfortable in all weather conditions and I don't think that I would ever change. It's just a really stylish car and very spacious inside. There is so much space it's almost like a small room. "I'm not the kind of person who would pick out a car and say 'that's a Nissan' or 'a Toyota' or whatever. I'm not that interested in cars but I know what I like, and I know what I want in a car. I like driving and this car is a pleasure to drive. Long journeys just fly by, but I have to admit the one thing I hate is parking the car. It's like parking a truck in comparison to other cars I've driven. I think I'll fit into a space until I try, but that's my only complaint. "I think I'm hooked on Rover. I know they say that some people find the car that suits them and they stick with it forever. I have to say I'd find it hard to move on. I think I've found my car." Sharon Anderson 
