cars
{ Jimmy Guerin 
    October 18 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/banks-are-using-known-criminals-and-terror-tactics-to-repossess-goods-26236163.html }
IT'S 6.20pm and three collectors make their way to the suburbs of Malahide in north Dublin. They are going to repossess a car for one of Dublin's biggest finance  houses. Five payments are due and the last cheque the bank received was returned  unpaid. The car, a 01 BMW, is parked in the driveway. Normally collectors advise local Garda that they are about to lift a car, but on this occasion they choose not to as the collectors are well known to the Gardai and do not want to bring themselves to their attention. One collector remains outside in the car as the two other thugs walk the driveway and knock on the customer's door. A 37-year-old father of two is the man they are looking for. He has been self-employed for six years. Up until two years ago business was going well. The downturn in the economy has begun to affect his business. As a consultant in software there is no longer demand on his time. The car they are coming to lift was bought in better days. The man's nine-year-old son answers the door and the collectors wait on the customer to come to speak with them. When he does they tell him that they work for the bank and are here to take the car back. They explain that they need it now, he appeals to them to leave it until tomorrow when he will call into the bank and pay some of the money that's owed. They do not want to know. They are paid on results. At this stage his wife knows something is wrong, her hus 'It's a joke, the banks are employing former robbers to do their dirty work.' band insists she go back inside. She is frightened because she hears the aggression in the men's voices. They look rough, she is not used to these types at her door. Once she has returned inside he again appeals to their better nature, this time they become more aggressive and tell him that they are taking the f***ing car and if he can't afford it why has he got it. They become threatening in their tone and he accepts that the car is being taken from him. He explains that there are personal belongings in his car and that he needs to get them. They take the car keys from him. They open the car and empty the contents into a large plastic sack. The baby seat is left, along with the contents of the boot, on the driveway and they leave with the car. These men have just made an easy ?600, and while doing so have terrorised a family. These are not typical bankers you would expect to be negotiating with when you run into difficulty with a leading financial institution. They are hardened criminals who are being employed by banks to repossess cars and other goods on their behalf. Two of the men involved in the Malahide job have served prison sentences and are described by the gardai as "dangerous". The following Friday nine men meet at a yard and discuss the day's job. Six trucks with an estimated value of ?700,000 are to be lifted from a haulier's yard. The men are told that there may be hassle from the drivers and if there is to be ready for it. They are told to be disciplined and not to assault anyone, certainly defend yourself but do not start trouble. They are also advised that the Gardai may be called. Two carloads of men are dispatched and told to wait a short distance away from the yard. This is a sizeable job so the boss is going along. He arrives at 4.05pm and walks into the yard, followed by three carloads of men. He calls into the office and asks to see the owner. He explains that they have been sent by the bank and are instructed to take the trucks back. The owner becomes very aggressive and tells the man to f*** off out of his office. The boss leaves and immediately returns with six of the men from the cars. Now he becomes very aggressive, refuses to allow the owner to leave, refuses to allow him make a call. He has now become a prisoner in his own office. Although a big man, he becomes very intimidated and he now realises that he is dealing with organised thugs. There are only four of the trucks in the yard and these are driven away by four of the men. As the collectors approach the trucks the drivers realise what is happening and move a forklift to block the gate. There is a stand-off and the owner of the business and the boss of the collectors go back to the office to have a chat. When inside the collector produces a stun gun and casually places it on the desk as he explains that should a row start the drivers will be badly hurt. He goes on to warn him that if the police arrive they will allow the trucks be taken, and then he issues one last warning, if he or any of his men are assaulted or hurt they will come back and break the owner's legs. He takes one look at the stun gun and realises that the only solution is to let them take the trucks, they are emptied of their loads and are driven away. The men arrange to call back for the other two trucks the following day but there is no one there when they do. It took until Wednesday of the following week to get the remaining trucks. The thugs were paid ?12,000 for lifting the six trucks. The men who carried out this task for a major bank are former republicans, five who have served time in Long Kesh and Portlaoise prison and have been released under the Good Friday Agreement. So who are the companies that are being employed by some of the countries' leading lenders to deal with customers who fall into arrears. One of them is Dublin based and headed up by a well-known republican with good contacts on both sides of the border. He is well known to the Gardai. A former employee of this company told the Sunday independent "We do no more than terrorise unfortunates who have fallen on hard times and who the banks know need to be frightened into returning the goods. It's a joke, the banks who claim to be respectable are employing former robbers to do their dirty work." This company was engaged by a leading bank to recover a truck which was impounded in the UK. It was confiscated from a driver who was trying to smuggle drugs to the continent. The truck had a sliding bed so it could extend from a 20ft to a 40ft. Under the sliding table was a compartment, which was used to hide the drugs. The job was sub contracted out to another company which also does work for the same bank and they collected the truck and took it their yard in Ireland. Obviously impressed with the hidden drug compartment someone brought the truck back to the UK and tried to smuggle ?20 million worth of drugs back into this country. This happened while the truck was being stored for the bank. The drugs were found and the lorry seized again. Another company first employed by the same bank three years ago had an employee who started to rob stereos out of the cars and loaned cars to friends and created a number of problems for the company. When the owner realised the extent of what was happening he sacked the person in question. One of the cars, which the owner had bought from another bank, ended up being used in a robbery. Another individual who was employed by the same company is a well-known criminal and admitted to the Sunday Independent that he served time for robbery. One former employee of another company involved in the lifting of cars on behalf of two leading banks told the Sunday Independent of an additional racket in which they were involved: "We used to make extra money hiring out the cars to other criminals. It made a job safer and easier when you're using an unknown clean car. "These cars were not stolen and would not be known to Gardai. We would be told to leave the cars at an agreed spot, usually a hotel car park with the keys under the seat. When we would collect the car there would be up to ?300 under the seat for us." 
