cars
{  
    December 13 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/buying-used-how-not-to-end-up-with-a-lemon-on-your-hands-36401992.html }
Turn on the TV or radio and every commercial break has at least one car ad. It has reached fever pitch as car makers compete for consumers' attention for 2018 registrations. But not everybody will be in the market for a new car. Some will be in the market for a used car.  Whatever you're in the market for, the European New Car Assessment Programme (Euro NCAP) website is a must-visit.  Euro NCAP independently rates the safety performance of a car.  But what else should you do if you're buying a used car? Get it independently checked by a mechanic. If you do not know the person you are buying the car from, then you cannot be sure of its history. This is critical if you don't feel you know enough about cars yourself. If buying from a garage, it should give you some type of warranty on the sale of the car. If not, well, then this should ring alarm bells, and if I were you I'd take my business elsewhere. It is also a good idea to do a comprehensive background check. This may uncover details which the buyer is deliberately trying to hide, such as whether or not the vehicle has ever been involved in a crash, the true mileage of the vehicle or if there is outstanding finance on the vehicle.  If you are buying privately, always meet the private seller at their home address in daylight and check the documentation matches their address to ensure they are not a dealer trying to disguise a sale. Ask the seller for identification to confirm that it is the same person on the vehicle registration certificate. Always try to take the car for a test drive before you buy it. When driving the car, turn off the radio and air-conditioning and make sure there are no strange noises or rattling. Check for a strong smell of oil or petrol and that it accelerates comfortably and the brakes don't squeak or squeal. Make sure the vehicle's odometer hasn't been clocked. Compare the odometer record on the NCT disc, or service history manual, with the vehicle's current odometer reading. All Society of the Irish Motor Industry dealers have access to a car-history check service. They should be able to guarantee the mileage of any car they sell, as well as other details on the car's history.  There are also online websites that provide for a fee and are widely advertised. Check the NCT certificate is not fraudulent and that the vehicle has genuinely passed the test.  There are some cases where fake discs are used in an attempt to raise the value of the vehicle. You can check this out by visiting www.ncts.ie or www.cvrt.ie.    Make sure that all documentation, including NCT, VRT, motor tax and car handbook, relate to the car.  But a word of caution. An NCT or Commercial Vehicle Roadworthiness (CVRT) certificate is a check on a set of minimum requirements at the time of the test and does not confer any warranty. A valid NCT certificate confirms the vehicle was in a roadworthy condition on the day of the test only. Buying a car with a valid NCT certificate does not guarantee the vehicle is in a roadworthy condition at the time of purchase. It should not be considered a substitute for a comprehensive technical examination of a vehicle before buying.  If a car deal sounds too good to be true, it probably is. A car that seems cheap or costs less than other cars in the market of the same age / mileage may have been involved in a crash. Or it may have concealed corrosion. What you thought was a bargain at the time of purchase can quickly turn into a nightmare if you didn't do proper checks. You could end up paying out more in maintenance costs, replacement of parts or maybe another car altogether because you were sold a lemon. Indo Motoring 
