cars
{ Victoria Mary Clarke 
    July 23 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/movies/ultimate-marriage-of-man-and-machine-26210858.html }
HOLLYWOOD is a land of big dreams, big fantasies and big expectations. We have great expectations of our movie stars. And we have even greater expectations of our movie cars. We all have different people inside us: cooler, sexier, cleverer, crazier.And in the movies, we can be those people and drive the kinds of cars they might drive. Movie cars are designed to take us out of ordinary reality and into a realm of unlimited possibilities. A place where cars might fly or water-ski or travel in time. In the movies, cars might even have personalities and talk back to us. Movie cars are limited only by the imagination of the script-writer, and the budget. The cars we see in movies automatically become symbols of our own deeper longings. A powerful, pulsating, potent machine like Ferris Bueller's dad's Ferrari may symbolise burgeoning sexual desire. Thelma and Louise roaring off a cliff and into the sunset in a convertible Thunderbird may symbolise the freedom to defy society and the law, to defy death, and remain forever in a joyful, eternal present. Because of this heady mixture of fantasies, dreams, desires and symbolism, the cars we go nuts for in the movies must be as charismatic as the actors we love. Which is why, when Sky Television recently commissioned a poll to find the 30 greatest movie cars of all time, the voters chose some of the wildest, craziest, sexiest, most impractical cars that ever existed. In fact, cars that didn't even exist. They range from the special submarine version of the Lotus Esprit that featured in The Spy Who Loved Me to the DeLorean Time Machine from Back to the Future to the Batmobile, the Ghostbusters' Cadillac ambulance, an Aston Martin from a Bond movie, Austin Powers's 1967 Jaguar and Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. Jason Barlow, the presenter of Movies' Greatest 'Angelina Jolie proves herself as the ultimate car fantasy chick by rolling out from under a Ferrari, dressed in a cleavage- revealing boiler suit' Cars, is the ultimate carnut and editor of Car magazine. He was born and raised in Bangor, Co Down, and began to read Car magazine when he was 10. "I am fanatical about three things: cars, music and movies. And I wanted to be a movie star or a racing driver or a pop star, but I wasn't good enough to do any of those things, so I've ended up writing about other people who do!" he says. Whatever about his early ambitions, Jason freely admits that he now has the best job in the world. This weekend he will be test-driving a new Aston Martin. Last weekend it was a new Land-Rover. "I get to basically drive any car I want," he says. And he has a fantasy car in mind to buy. A Lincoln Continental which was imported by the same car dealer who supplied the Barracuda which Jason is seen to drive in the show. Men are known to be obsessed with cars, I suggest. To the extent, perhaps, that they pay more attention to their cars than they do to their wives and girlfriends. "You are trying to make me say something controversial," he laughs. "But for some men, the kind of men who are very materialistic and who objectify women and cars, I can imagine that a car might take priority, yes." I make the suggestion, tentatively, that for many men, splashing out on a sexy car could make more sense than splashing out on an expensive chick. After all, a car can't run off with another man, not unless it gets stolen. And a car can be resprayed quite successfully, and it won't nag you. Jason is not a sexist man, he says. "Well," he says hesitantly, "if I had the choice between a high-maintenance sports car and a high-maintenance young lady, I would say the car was a better bet." Many of the cars featured in the programme are owned by collectors, some of whom are highly obsessive. One woman, who together with her husband bought a Thunderbird from the movie American Graffiti, swears that her husband would not have the time, the money or the energy for a mistress, because he is utterly devoted to the car. Many women have been known to be jealous of cars, however. Possibly men, too. Cars often have names and they definitely have personalities. "Do cars have souls?" Victoria Macmillan-Bell, a car journalist from the Telegraph is seen to ask, in all seriousness. "I think some of them do, yes." And it isn't only men who know about cars. In American teen/car flicks like Grease and American Graffiti, (both of which feature on the list) the girls only get to look pretty and the guys get to do all the driving. But things have changed. Women like Jodie Kidd happily combine glamour and car-racing and nobody seems to mind, least of all the blokes. Just as there are fantasy women in the movies, there are also fantasy car-oriented women. In Gone in 60 Seconds Angelina Jolie proves herself as the ultimate car fantasy-chick by rolling out from under a Ferrari, dressed in a cleavage-revealing boiler suit and waving a spanner. And proceeds to indulge in an orgy of serious car theft with Nicolas Cage. "In real life, women who can fix cars never look like Angelina Jolie," one of the male pundits sensibly points out. "But who cares?" What we are looking for in a movie car is more than just good looks. "Steve McQueen was a good-looking guy," Jason Barlow says. "But he wasn't just good-looking. He was charismatic and sexy as well. The 1960s Mustang that he drives in Bullit is the exact car that Steve McQueen would be, if he were a car. That movie shows the ultimate marriage of man and machine." If, as Jason says, a car really is a reflection of its owner, then James Bond's Aston Martin, customised to handle any situation and still look stylish, must also be a good match. I think it's a safe bet to suggest that more men than women fantasise about being James Bond and having the attributes that he has. But I've often wondered if, when they finally get behind the wheel of an Aston, they find themselves let down by the fact that it can't turn into a plane or a boat, or fire bullets. "I have no doubt that some people have unrealistic expectations of their cars," Jason laughs. "But that's all wild escapism, and real cars don't perform like that." Just as the public loves a really crazy car, like the Back to the Future DeLorean which turns into a time machine, or the Batmobile, the public also loves to project even bigger, darker possibilities on to its favourite cars. The possibility, for instance, that a car could be possessed by the devil and go around doing evil deeds. In Christine, a perfectly innocuous 1958 Plymouth Belvedere takes on the persona of an evil female and terrorises people. And in The Car, a hideous customised Lincoln Mark 3 becomes the devil incarnate. But generally, we seem to favour classic, nostalgic cars from the Fifties and Sixties, and cars that remind us of our childhood, such as the Chitty Chitty Bang Bang car and Herbie. We love kitsch cars with cute names, like the 1946 Fat Fender Ford Coupe from Grease, and the Blues Brothers 1974 Dodge Monaco Police car. There are more serious issues raised by these harmless fantasies, however. There is the very serious issue of what will happen to the planet if we keep on blasting the ozone layer and using up all the oil, in our gas-guzzling monsters. "I don't ignore the environmental impact," Jason Barlow says. "I'm very well aware of where we are headed. China is about to go ballistic in terms of car-buying, and I don't know where that could lead us. And I do know that people like Jay Kay, who are known to collect fast cars, are being criticised for encouraging the trend, having once sung about the destruction of the planet. But as Jay Kay himself points out, he may have a lot of cars, but he doesn't drive them all at once!" Unfortunately, the more environmentally friendly cars like the Toyota Prius don't feature on the list of the movies' greatest cars. But because Leonardo Di Caprio and Charlize Theron are driving the Prius (a hybrid car which runs on a battery charged by the engine), it has become the coolest car in Hollywood, with a waiting list. The other problem which fantasy-driving raises is speeding. Perhaps many young men can't help seeing themselves as Nicolas Cage in Gone in 60 Seconds? I ask Barlow. "Statistically, young men do have a habit of thinking they are Michael Schumacher," he agrees. "I would encourage people who are into fast driving to go to a proper racing track and take driving lessons, so that they can learn to drive properly, which is what I did. But on the whole, I don't really think that movies encourage bad behaviour, not at all." We all love to escape from our ordinary lives, occasionally. We all love a bit of glamour and glitz, a bit of nonsense and a bit of a thrill. Which is why we will love Movies' Greatest Cars. But what is most reassuring to hear is that even for the editor of Car magazine, no car, "not even a classic Porsche" could ever displace his wife. "A woman is better than any car on the planet," he assures me. "People are far more important than cars!" Movies' Greatest Cars is on Sky One, Sunday, August 7 
