cars
{  
    September 23 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/why-it-is-not-all-smiles-behind-the-wheel-of-your-overtaxed-car-25899124.html }
"MAY you live in interesting times," is a Chinese blessing I heard quoted recently. There is no doubt that we do. The last decade has been an astonishing period in Irish history. The growth in our economic prosperity and in our national confidence is visible everywhere. The dark days of the 1980s seem long ago. One clear sign of our new found prosperity has been the growth in car ownership. In the decade since 1994 the number of private cars has risen from 890,000 to almost 1.6 million. You might think that with so many of us choosing to own cars it would be more possible to ensure fairer taxes and better treatment for motorists. Not so. The car seems to have no shortage of enemies. It has become fashionable in many circles to demonise cars and to treat those who own them and use them (almost all of us in one way or another) as if they were selfish environmental vandals. There is no doubt that the car ownership explosion has brought some serious downsides. The most significant of those are road safety, urban traffic congestion and pollution. Road safety is the most serious problem. Ireland's roads are becoming safer in keeping with international trends. Road deaths were at their worst in the early 1970s when the death toll was a truly horrific 700 annually. We have progressed from there, but there is no doubt that our record continues to be extremely poor relative to other countries in Europe. Strangely enough, however, the car's determined ideological opponents seldom talk about road safety. You are far more likely to hear the motor car knocked as a polluter and the cause of all urban traffic congestion. If you look out on one of Dublin's major roads on a winter's morning you will see long lines of cars in slow moving queues. Drivers grow ever more frustrated; the whole process is maddeningly inefficient and wasteful. It is seductively easy to simply declare that we have too many cars and they should be curtailed. But the problem with the simplistic analysis is that it does not ask why those drivers are choosing to sit in traffic. The reality is that Dublin has fewer cars per capita than many other European cities of comparable size. Places like Amsterdam, Munich or Brussels have very high levels of car ownership but nothing like our congestion problem. What sets us apart is public transport, or more accurately the lack of it. Irish people do not have some sort of Californian love affair with the car. What is needed to get people out of the traffic jams is good quality public transport, and lots of it. This point seems to be lost on those who propose introducing a London style congestion charge. This has been proposed at various times with varying degrees of seriousness. It is certainly a regular theme of the Dublin Transportation Office, which touts road pricing as an important demand management measure. London's system seems to be working well. But the key point is public transport availability. Before the charge was introduced in London approximately 87pc of all commuters in the affected area were already using non-car transport modes. Dublin could not be more different. In the peak period between 8am and 9am there are 460,000 people on the move. Of those, 71pc travel by car. Dublin Bus, despite having made huge strides in recent years, is only able to carry 85,000. In that environment, congestion charging is worse than useless. It turns a traffic jam into a tax collection mechanism without solving the problem. However, it would cost motorists a lot of money. For some voices in the debate that is reason enough to do it. Pollution from cars is serious, but you seldom hear how much progress is being made in this area. The private car of 2004 is dramatically less polluting than a comparable model from 10 years ago. The most serious ground level pollutants produced by traffic are now associated with heavy diesel engines - not the family car. There remains the issue of carbon use and the resultant CO2 emissions. Ireland is failing to reach its Kyoto targets for reducing fossil fuel use and this may cost us all dearly. Carbon taxes were advanced as the answer, and the motorist placed in the firing line again. A partial look at the data seems to support this. Transport is the fastest growing source of CO2 in Ireland and now accounts for 18pc of all carbon use. But again, it is not the ordinary car that is causing this. Haulage and the use of large diesel engines are more significant. Rail and shipping contribute. Air transport is not adequately counted at all. This doesn't stop the anti-car zealot calling for more motoring taxes. We have to watch for hypocrisy here. Genuine environmental taxes are those which encourage people to use less fuel. The VRT reduction available to ultra low emission cars like the Toyota Prius is one such measure; not charging benefit in kind tax on company provided bus tickets is another. But fuel surcharges are not. Raising fuel prices does not reduce usage, it just brings in more revenue. The UK provides clear proof of this: the 'fuel price escalator' policy has seen petrol prices rise and rise without making any effect on driving patterns. Closer to home, price fluctuations through the last year has seen petrol vary from 89 cent to 101 cent per litre without having any effect on demand. The Government recently recognised this and shelved the idea of carbon taxes for the time being. This is welcome: grabbing another few hundred million out of our pockets - on top of the ?4bn that we pay already - will do nothing to help the environment. We, in the AA are willing to engage with government and to support any measure which will reduce wasteful car use by treating people fairly and by providing alternatives. We are not willing to allow the genuine environmental concerns to be neglected in favour of crude revenue generating taxes. Conor Faughnan is public affairs manager, AA Ireland 
