cars
{  
    December 18 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/driven-off-the-road-26165829.html }
The Irish were never bowled over by flash new motors not until the recent scrappage grant took 50,000 bangers off the road, and the economic boom hastened the decline of the jalopy. Now, secondhand car owners, including owners of vintage cars, are facing a tough vehicle test. Kim Bielenberg reports It has been a horrible decade for the trusty old banger. There was a time not so long ago when it was considered normal practice to drive a car around for 10 or 20 years. Until there was no particular cachet attached to owning a new car. Old crocks did not have their ages rudely revealed by the intrusive modern number plate. Morris Minors, Mercs and Minis lived on when their owners died and were passed on through generations like family heirlooms. But nowadays ancient vehicles are becoming as rare as hen's teeth. We are now obsessed by the gleaming car with the 98 D plates and show little interest in the work of car preservation. An eighties car is almost frowned upon in the prosperous motorway fast lane. It is estimated that one fifth of all Irish cars of over 10 years of age were destroyed in the scrappage scheme introduced by the last Government, leaving classic car collectors in a state of mild grief. Over 50,000 mature vehicles - including many of the potential classic cars of the future - were left on the scrap heap. Then, late last month, came news that could spell death for thousands more ancient jalopies and bangers- and make the ownership of a second hand car more difficult. Owners of cars aged four years and upwards will have to pay around £40 every two years to have a roadworthiness test. If the testing of trucks, which was introduced in the early eighties, is anything to go by, around 40pc of all cars will fail the test. Many of these cars will inevitably go for scrap. Gerry Lee, who specialises in restoring old cars in Dublin's Killester, says: ``There were many fine cars that were lost as a result of the scrappage scheme. I was not happy about it at all.'' ``I even know of an Austin 7 that was destroyed and I myself had to rescue some Morris Minors. I got some of them, but not all of them. I could not rescue some great cars. The MOT test will also make it difficult.'' A key feature of the new test, due for introduction in January 2000, will be fuel emissions. The Department of Environment has not specified how fumes will be assessed, but says that air pollutant emissions will be tested. ``We are hoping that the new MOT will take into account the fact that the petrol in older cars is unleaded,'' said Gerry Lee ``Cars of over 30 years of age (considered by collectors as classic car) should not have to go through the same kind of test.'' Car dealers have no doubt that the introduction of the new number plates 10 years ago, which clearly indicates a car's age, has helped to bring about a decline in the number of older cars on the road. ``A few years ago nobody cared how old a car was and in many cases they didn't even know,'' said one dealer. `` In the sixties and seventies, cars were built to last, but now they are almost disposable. In Japan they get rid of their cars after three years'' It is understood that the new MOT test, which will be carried out every two years will cost motorists up to £40. Many owners of old cars already have to get an engineer's report for insurance purposes and the cost of this is generally around £20. So, the new test seems expensive by comparison. If a car fails the MOT test, the owner will have to have it repaired and then pay a re-test fee, which is expected to be under £20. The Government can see many benefits in the introduction of the new test including: improvement in road safety; reduced air pollution and noise; potential for reduced insurance premiums; reduced fuel consumption; and less likelihood of breakdown. Reg Plunkett, who collects and repairs old cars in Dublin, says the MOT test should be a boon to car dismantlers dealing in parts. ``There will be a massive boom in that part of the business when the test is introduced.'' He says that fuel emissions from old cars should not pose problems if they are well maintained. But the low cost of buying new cars on leasing deals has deterred many from buying second-hand, according to Gerry Lee. New cars can now be bought for £29 per week. ``It is so easy to get a new car nowadays. Secondhand cars can be picked up for very low prices. You can get a nice 10 year old Ford Granada for £700-£1200.'' So which cars last the longest? Gerry Lee believes that the North European cars - such as Mercedes, Volkswagen, Volvo and Saab - stand the test of time, because they are built for inclement weather.  Early Japanese cars were notorious rust buckets, but cars of a more recent vintage are lasting well, because the bodywork has improved and the engines are durable. Fiats from the 1970s are almost extinct and Renault 4s are also fast disappearing, because of their lack of durability. 
