cars
{  
    September 10 2013 02:47 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/how-to-foil-car-thieves-29550895.html }
STATION Sergeant John Gill, the Crime Prevention Officer for County Wicklow, gives some simple and effective ways to protect your car In recent years car theft has decreased due mainly to improved security systems making new cars harder to steal. The fact that newer cars can't be started without keys creates a problem for criminals. Criminals are now stealing car keys from homes or are targeting places where we are likely to leave the car keys in the ignition. Don't leave your car keys near the front door as thieves have been known to fish them out via the letter box. Use a steering lock, a metal bar that locks across the steering wheel. This device may deter criminals from stealing your car as it slow them down. Never leave your car with keys in the ignition, no matter how briefly. Criminals will hang around areas where this is likely to happen, waiting for an opportunity to strike. Target areas would be outside schools, service stations, small shops or in car parks as you head off to the pay and display machine. Insurance companies are unlikely to pay out if your car is stolen as a result of you leaving the keys in the ignition. With winter approaching bringing frosty mornings, if you need to warm up the car; stay with it. In the time that it takes you to nip indoors your car could be stolen. When parking your car try to park in a well lit area and if possible in an area covered by CCTV. This may deter the criminals as they hate to be seen. One out of every four motorists has at some stage had valuables stolen from their cars with the usual method being smash and grab. Motorists need to be vigilant to make sure that they are not the next victim. On leaving your car remove the satnav system and its cradle, wiping and cleaning the sucker marks from the windscreen. A sucker mark or an empty cradle may enlighten a thief to the fact that you may have hidden the satnav somewhere in the car. Keep the contents of your car out of sight when you leave it. On arrival at a location be conscious that criminals may be watching you, watching to see what valuables your put in the boot or where you hide the handbag, waiting to strike as you leave the car to go for your walk. Your best defence would be to remove as many valuables as possible from the car prior to departure. Keeping a tidy car, that looks as if there is absolutely nothing of value in it to steal may discourage a thief. Wicklow People 
