cars
{ Aidan Timmons and Eddie Cunningham 
    December 16 2014 03:37 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/why-do-i-have-to-pay-delivery-charges-what-estate-should-i-buy-30841734.html }
I am thinking of buying a new car in 2015 but I am confused by some garages quoting me 'ex-works' prices while others say the price includes everything. They call it On the Road price.  Can someone help me understand please why we can't have a uniform price? It makes it difficult to compare prices. And, anyway, why should I have to pay for 'delivery and related charges? Eddie: You are not alone in your confusion and frsutration. If I had a euro for every question I've been asked about this over the years I'd be able to buy a new car. So let's see if we can make it as clear as possible. 'Ex-works' means the price of the car landed in the country to the compound. These are still the most commonly quoted prices. The shock for many buyers comes after they have been reading a review or ad and seen the 'ex-works' price only to discover when they turn up at a dealership that there are hundreds more euro involved. The extra is supposed to pay for 'delivery and related' charges. But what are those charges? Simply put, they are supposed to cover the cost of delivering the car (usually by transporter) from the compound to dealer. They also are to include: *the cost of pre-delivery inspection, *a short test drive, *adding number plates (mats in some cases), *clearing away protective wrapping and sprayed-on coating outside and inside etc. I hope that makes the 'ex-works' part clear for you. Some distributors and dealers are now adding all that to the price of the car and quoting the total as opposed to the 'ex-works' price. And that is what they call the 'On The Road' (OTR) price. Some brands, and Volkswagen in particular, specify the cost of delivery and related charges in their OTR price. It is usually €750. Others break it down as well by showing ex-works and OTR in their price lists. I think that is laudable, even if the cost seems high sometimes, because you see what you are paying straight up. As I wrote in the Independent Review on Saturday I'd love to see the day when all brands clearly outline what they are charging for delivery etc. The element of delivery charges that I think are least palatable is that they can, in some circumstances, become part of the bargaining over price. In other words something that is said to be a real cost becomes something that can be negotiated. Fair enough, I suppose. But does it not undermine some credibility in the charges in the first place? It has to be pointed out too that On the Road prices are negotiable and they contain delivery and related charges. But somehow bargaining over one inclusive price seems more appropriate than knocking a few euro off the cost price - and the delivery charge. I'm confused by all this talk of crossovers and superminis. Can you explain please? I'm thinking of buying one of those Qashqais as we take the grandchildren a lot. Or would I be better with an old-fashioned salooon? Eddie: I don't blame you for being confused: there were never as many sizes and shapes of cars. And there are going to be more of them because people want their cars to be as individual and personalised as possible. Basically we used to have: city cars (such as the Ford Ka), superminis (VW Polo), family saloons/hatchbackss (Corolla, Golf), large family/fleets (Mondeo), small executive saloons (Mercedes C-Class), mid-sized executives (Audi A6), large executives (BMW 7-series), a few people carriers and a few SUVs (Pajero, Range Rover etc). But the old demarcations are being rubbed out and blurred at an accelerating pace. That has been the case since they started making combinations of cars. By that I mean they blended the looks and practicalites of estates with coupe and SUVs etc. Hence the word 'crossover' - designs traversing traditional segments and making many into one, as it were. Take a look at the Nissan Qashqai you are thinking of buying: see how many elements of other shapes you can find. It is one of the best-known 'crossovers'. But there are many, many more. And the ones emerging as the favourite is what the call the compact SUV/crossover - from mainstream to executive - such as the Ford Kuga, Toyota RAV4, Mercedes GLA, Opel Mokka, Dacia Duster etc. So my advice to you is not to worry too much about the labels. Trends emerge, peak and fade. Far more important for you is to make sure that the car you get suits you and your pocket. To answer your question: the Qashqai would seem to make a lot of sense for you if you are going to be carrying children. But if you feel more comfortable with a saloon, there are plenty out there - including the new Volkswagen Passat, Ford Mondeo etc. Somehow, however, I'm betting on you going for the Qashqai. I am changing from a van to a car but still need ample space. We travel quite a lot so diesel is preferable. My budget is circa €12,000. I am considering a BMW or Audi from the UK but don't want something with high mileage. Aidan: First off, an estate is definitely a sensible decision. With a budget of €12,000, it is probably more prudent to shop for a car from brands that operate outside the premium sector. That broadens your overall choice and maximizes your budget to take in fresher registration plate cars. Many of those who bought diesel cars in 2011 and 2012 did so to avail of lower tax and not for a genuine necessity for diesel. Some covered what we might consider "petrol mileage" and these soon-to-be three and four year old cars are among the most popular to be traded in for new cars in January; so choice should be plentiful. The UK motor trade is performing strongly, with vehicles priced at your budget being especially buoyant. Importing may yield some savings but there is choice here too and unless you've exhausted all avenues locally, the UK route isn't necessarily always a case of the "grass being greener". Kia and Hyundai are chief among the manufacturers that helped bring estate variants of popular hatchbacks to the market. Kia's cee'd SW was generously heaped with goodies. Hyundai's i30 estate is another good choice. Both brands have excellent track records for reliability and their 1.6 diesel engines are frugal, if a touch less refined than some European brands. You shouldn't encounter any issues finding a clean, low mileage 2011 model of either. The Kia and Hyundai warranties mean you are covered for at least another couple of years. Just ensure the car meets the criteria for the extended warranty package. By comparison, your budget will see you into a 2008/2009 Audi A4 Avant or BMW 3 Series Tourer. Unless you find a particularly good one, it will require some money being spent for wear and tear on items that will inevitably give up the ghost. Don't get me wrong, they are great cars but I think you'll fare better in something newer. If the i30 and cee'd don't cut the mustard, the Ford Focus is always a safe option. You might consider some estate variants of family saloons. Opel's Insignia has a capable 2.0 CDTi engine and is usually fitted with goodies. Look out for SC or SE models in particular. Ford's Mondeo should not be overlooked either, especially with a 2.0 TDCi engine. Find a handsomely shod 2.0 TDCi Titanium model with low mileage and you've got yourself a tremendous motor. Indo Motoring 
