cars
{ Adrian Weckler 
    October 28 2018 06:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/technology/why-ecars-are-still-non-starters-37466203.html }
I'm writing this as I sit in Abrakebabra with a weak tea. It's 8.15pm on a dark, cold northside Dublin night. I'm waiting for my electric car, Volkswagen's latest eGolf, to charge. It is doing so very, very slowly. It's been an hour with little charging progress. So I'm stuck. A gentleman is sitting beside me who has been struggling for 10 minutes to retrieve something from his nose. Someone is shouting outside. I have just purchased what Abrakebabra calls 'taco fries' and am trying to catch up on some podcasts. I didn't see this as part of the electric car ownership deal. I don't know how many of the tiny handful (around 7,000 in five years) of Irish electric car owners regularly sit in fastfood joints, waiting. Most, I understand, have home charging systems. But I don't. And with no other options for miles, with an electric car I'm trapped. When I started the charging process at 6.35pm, I thought I'd get enough in 40 minutes to last another day or two. So I sat in the car with my laptop, responding to email. But despite everything saying that I was connected and charging, it wasn't; I had to reset it before it actually started charging. I sat in the car some more, watching the charging progress: about 1km of extra 'range' added every minute or so. The car declares the full range to be about 235km (though it absolutely isn't - more on that below). So it became apparent after about 10 more minutes that I'd be waiting a long, long time. So I decamped and now here I am. An hour gone, much longer to go and some soggy taco fries for company. At this moment, the positives of electric driving - high-spec interiors, incredible acceleration power, a feeling of being both futuristic and environmentally friendly - seem far away. Right now, I can't imagine trading in my diesel car for an electric one. This kills me. I love driving this car. I love the way it feels and reacts, particularly at night. I love its instant response when I touch the pedal. I love its near-silence. My family loves it, too. They get excited when we use it over the diesel Golf sitting outside the house. As a driver, it's exactly what I would want in a car. So much so that I would not hesitate to trade my own car instantly for it - or even pay a premium - for the actual driving experience. It's so good that I've even wrestled with the idea of accepting the (extreme) limitation on range and charging infrastructure. "Maybe it would be possible to rent a GoCar for trips out of the city," I tell myself. But then I look at my taco fries and the harsh tungsten lights overhead. Is this the way I now want to spend Sunday nights? Is this what I'd want to build into a drive to Cork or Galway, turning a two- or three-hour trip into a six-hour one? It's been about a year since I last test-drove an electric car. Every time I get a new model, I earnestly hope that the range and charging experience has improved. Every time, I'm reminded of why hardly anyone buys one (there are more Land Rovers sold in Ireland than all electric cars combined). The superior driving experience is not enough to gloss over the chronic lack of infrastructure and range. With a home charging system, an urban-based driver can effectively use it as a runaround or a commuting vehicle. But another city? Forget it. I had an interview to conduct in Wexford Town during the trial period. It's about 150km away. In theory, I could have driven down and searched for a recharging station, then driven it back up. I didn't dare, though. There are only a handful of charging points in Wexford Town that are compatible with this car. Most of them are the slow-charging variety.  The problem there is that it takes around five hours to charge an eGolf using one of these charging points. (As I sit in Abrakebabra, it has taken an hour and 15 minutes to add a quarter charge to the car's battery reserve.) And even that would depend on me getting a guaranteed spot at one of the few places. There is an app ('eCar Connect') that tells you whether a charging spot is occupied or out of service. But it's my experience that, for streetside charging points, normal cars often park there during busy traffic periods. But I still might be confident in taking my chances with that if I knew, for certain, that the car would actually make it 150km from Dublin to Wexford Town on a full charge. The eGolf is supposed to have a range of around 220km. In my experience (city driving), it was around 140km. Much of the road down to Wexford is motorway, which shortens the car's range. Would you risk it? Maybe if it was just for a Sunday drive. But to make an appointment? And then an urgent need to be back that evening? I drive to rural Mayo quite a lot. This brings me through counties such as Longford and Roscommon.  There is just a single charging point between Longford town and Ballina, a distance of 115km, the vast majority (or more, in some cases) of most Irish electric cars' ranges. That charging point is in Ballaghaderreen. Even if the spot is free and operational, do you fancy five hours in Ballaghaderreen while it's charging? (I'd need a full charge - and more - to get to where I needed to beyond Ballina.) What would you do? Would you risk it? Or should Irish electric car owners who dare to travel around the country just get a VIP loyalty card for Abrakebabra and SuperMac's? The eGolf is an amazing car to drive. But until the range or charging infrastructure improves, it's sadly a non-starter as a primary car in Ireland. Sunday Indo Business 
