cars
{  
    December 01 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/garda-commended-for-bravery-dignity-in-stolen-car-incident-27541009.html }
A TUBBERCURRY-based garda was to be commended for his bravery on the night he and colleagues were trying to prevent a stolen car from escaping from a car park in the town and for minimising the injuries he sustained in the course of his duty on the occasion, a Circuit Court judge said. Judge Miriam Reynolds was dealing with a case in which the car, driven by Domineco Vella, Dungloe, Fortunestown Lane, Tallaght, Dublin, struck Garda Noel Leonard. Defending counsel in the case, Mr. Joseph Barnes, instructed by McGovern Walsh and Co, Solrs, said the fact that the garda did not take a claim was "evidence of the garda's dignity and charity."  Reckless Although the defendant, a drug addict who was currently in prison, said he was going for "a gap", Judge Reynolds said it showed a complete lack of regard for anybody in the vicinity. She described it as a reckless, deliberate, vicious and malicious act. At a sitting of the circuit court in Sligo, Vella pleaded to charges that on March 4th, 2003, he damaged a vehicle the property of Patrick O'Donnell; that he damaged a vehicle the property of the Department of Justice/Garda Síochána; that he damaged a vehicle the property of Stanley Morrison, and that he took possession of a vehicle without the consent of Stanley Morrison. Judge Reynolds sentenced the defendant to five years imprisonment on all counts, the sentences to run concurrently and to date from July 28th this year. However, she suspended the last three years on Vella's undertaking to go into a residential or other approved course for his drug addiction on his release from prison. Mr. Joseph Barnes, B.L., instructed by McGovern Walsh and Co., Solrs, for the defendant, told Judge Reynolds that the defendant's mother was in court and she was prepared to pay over ?5,000 bail money for compensation. Mr. Barnes said that ?3,000 was raised by the defendant himself from the sale of a caravan. Claire Vella, who paid ?5,000 bail money for her son, said ?3,000 came from her son who sold his mobile home. She had a business as a mobile chipper.  Letter She told the court that there was a family background which she did not want disclosed in court but she had it written in a letter for the judge. After reading the letter, Judge Reynolds said these matters must be dealt with in public. It was a criminal matter, she pointed out, adding that she must, for the record, record that she considered the letter. She said the letter was a plea for mercy and outlined the difficulties, and emotional difficulties, the defendant encountered as a child and teenager, and that he had a serious drug problem. "This was outlined to the court the last time so I am not breaching confidences," the judge told the defendant's mother. "It's a letter one would expect to receive from a mother," said Judge Reynolds, who added that she would put the letter on the court file.  Good side The defendant's mother said that she had seen the good side of her son. He was great with his own children, something he did not get as a child. "I will support him in the future as long as he takes the help for drugs and gets off all that stuff," she said. "I am sorry for what my son did and I am sorry too," she said. Vella himself told the court that he had a serious drug problem with heroin for 15 years. He had hepatitis C arising from his illness. "When I do get of prison I am going into residential care in Enfield but you have to be off everything before you get into it," he said. He said he undertook to the court to take this treatment. "I have done everything I can to deal with my problem," he said. He added: "I do need the help. I am five months clean." He said he tried to get a letter from prison to say he was clean but they wouldn't give it to him because the court would have to ask for it. He said he was working in a workshop in prison and he had got a certificate. "I am doing everything that I can in prison," he said.  Need help He had two children, 10 and thirteen months. "I know I cannot get back to the streets. I do need the help," he said. When Judge Reynolds asked him to explain how he was in a car that drove at a member of the Garda Síochána, the defendant said "there was a gap" and he was trying to get away. "I didn't go at the police," he said. He went on to apologise to the garda. Judge Reynolds said the court had heard from the garda, who didn't exactly make it out of the way. Defendant: "I am sorry for it." Judge: "You are sorry now." Counsel for the State, Miss Eileen O'Leary, B.L., instructed by State Solicitor Mr. Hugh Sheridan, told the court that the State was not making an application to estreat bail money in the case. She pointed out that there were three cars damaged to the amount of ?6,573.84.  Injuries She said the garda has also received injuries. She said the damage to the car of retired garda Pat O'Donnell was ?1,242.03 and the official garda car was damaged to the amount of ?1,305.97. Mr. Morrison's car was damaged to the amount of ?4,025.84. This car was stolen. It was a 1990 car and it might not be economic to repair it at that price. Miss. O'Leary said that State was anxious that the people would be compensated as well as Garda Leonard who suffered injuries. Mr. Barnes said that the garda minimised his injuries but "we do not minimise it." And he added that the fact that the garda did not take a claim was evidence of the garda's dignity and charity. Mr. Barnes said the defendant tried to get through a gap, which was a reckless thing to do. And he pointed out that in the Book of Evidence, there was mention of a screech of brakes.  Skilled Mr. Barnes said that accused man had pleaded guilty to three counts of criminal damage and unauthorised taking. He was a man who had a long-standing drug problem and that was a very difficult thing for him to deal with. He had been working and lost his employment. While in prison he had taken part in a carpentry course and was "quite skilled in this." He had two children, aged 10 and one year. He was an affectionate parent and Mr. Barnes asked the judge to take the children into account. He realised that on leaving prison he had to engage in a rigorous course of therapy for his problem. Mr. Barnes asked that the defendant, at age 30, be given a chance, and with his parental responsibilities, to engage in work. Mr. Barnes said the ?3,000 he had to contribute in compensation was a significant amount for him, and his mother indicated she would try and make up the balance of compensation. "I would ask you to give him a chance and leave some light at the end of the tunnel, and leave a sentence hanging over him when his custodial sentence is over," asked Mr. Barnes. Judge Reynolds said the man who presented himself before her was, she was sure, different from the man who presented himself on the occasion of the offences. She said the position was that there had been a car stolen in Ballisodare. That car was located during the night and was placed under surveillance. The gárdaí received a call that a man was entering a car in a car park. The gárdaí saw this car reverse out with one male wearing a baseball cap and gloves. The gárdaí tried to prevent this vehicle leaving. It drove at the garda patrol car at high speed. Judge Reynolds said the garda stated that he couldn't get away and the car collided with him and he sustained injuries. The car pushed another car to one side and collided with a gateway and another car.  Lack of regard "It showed a complete lack of regard for anybody in the vicinity," she said. She also said it flew in the face of the defendant telling her he was going for "a gap." "I do not accept that. He was going to do whatever he could to get away," said the judge. She described it as "a reckless act." She added that the garda was very fair in evidence. He made light of his injuries and he hadn't taken a case for compensation and, in this day, that was an unusual feature. "He is to be commended for his bravery on the night and minimising his injuries in the course of his duty," said the judge. She said the sentence available for her to hand down was ten years imprisonment or a ?10,000 fine or both. "In my view, this was a deliberate, vicious and malicious act," she said, adding that the aggravated circumstances was that he drove at a member of the gárdaí who was in the defendant's way and didn't care if the garda was injured or killed. It was a marked garda patrol car, the judge pointed out. She said the defendant's mother, as would any mother, pleaded for leniency for her son. There was no doubt the defendant had a difficult upbringing through lack of a father figure who cared for him and he had a drug habit from a young age. The mother needed him back to help in the business and he was trying to deal with his drug problem. Judge Reynolds imposed a sentence of five years in prison but in taking into account mitigating circumstances and pleas, she was prepared to leave some light at the end of the tunnel and suspend a large portion of this sentence. She said she would suspend the last three years on the undertaking he go into a course for treatment for his drug problem on his release. She said she would backdate the sentence to when he went into custody on July 28th last. She directed that the ?5,000 be handed over to the State Solicitor and that it be paid out to the injured parties in the case. 
