cars
{  
    October 24 2014 04:25 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/motoring-costs-30690605.html }
The costs of motoring seem to rise exponentially no matter what we do. AA Ireland puts the cost of keeping a new-ish 'Band B' car on the road (including motor tax, insurance, depreciation, loan costs and NCT, but excluding any parking costs) at some €3,000. And that's before you do any driving. Add on fuel, servicing, repairs and tyres, and that'll be another €3,500 if you do the 16,000km a year the average Irish motorist does. Fuel costs have fallen a little over the last few months but history tells us that such moderations in pump prices never last.  However, it's all too easy to shrug your shoulders and say that owning and running a car is a necessary evil and that there is little you can do to offset the cost beyond the obvious things, even if you own a relatively fuel-efficient model. "The traditional methods of saving money are sound," says Michael Rochford of car history checking website Motorcheck.ie. "However, with the annual cost of motoring for most people running into the thousands of euro, it's well worth thinking outside the box. The accumulated savings by making lots of small savings can be massive." We asked the experts for the best tips to save on fuel, insurance and other operating costs, as well as if you are buying a new or used car. FUEL 1 Download the Pumps.ie fuel price comparison app onto your smartphone so that you can find the cheapest petrol or diesel ­wherever you are driving. 2 Get a fuelcard for consumer use. "Some fuelcards can give you up to two cent per litre off when refuelling and you won't incur interest charges such as when you use your credit card," says Mr Rochford. 3 Turn off the rear window demister unless it's needed. "It draws a lot of current from the battery, which then needs to be recharged, effectively using fuel," warns Shane O'Donoghue, editor of CompleteCar.ie. 4 Regularly check the pressure of all of your tyres. "It's a safety thing, of course, but it's also related to fuel consumption," says Mr O'Donoghue. "Under-inflated tyres cause more drag on the car, meaning it needs more fuel to move. Don't over-inflate either though, as that's unsafe and could lead to a blow out." 5 De-clutter and unload your car. "Less weight means fuel efficiency so empty the boot of any unnecessary clutter and remove the roof-rack for a 1-2pc efficiency improvement," says Mr Rochford. 6 Turn off the air condition when not needed. At slow speeds, air con uses a large amount of fuel. An incredible 8pc efficiency improvement can be made here, according to Mr Rochford. 7 Don't fill up at every re-fuel. It's counter-intuitive but the extra weight in a full tank of fuel makes driving less efficient than with say a half tank. 8 Think about your driving style and drive efficiently. For example, accelerate gradually, drive in the correct gear, slow naturally and think ahead regarding your road position. "Amazingly, studies have shown that you can save up to 30pc off your fuel bill by driving efficiently," says Mr Rochford. OTHER COSTS 1 Avoid NCT retest fees. "In plenty of time before your car's NCT, download the NCT guidelines from the official website and go through the simple things yourself on the car, such as lights, etc," says Mr O'Donoghue. "This will reduce the chances of a necessary retest, which may also cost you more in terms of time off work." 2 Don't forget about the new off-the-road rules. "If your car is off road for any lengthy period, declare it off-the-road, otherwise you are liable for the road tax for the full period even though the car is off the road," says Mr Rochford. INSURANCE 1 Switch insurers or challenge your current insurer, says Simon Moynihan of price comparison site Bonkers.ie. "Wait for your renewal letter. Take action by calling three other insurers and seeing if they can beat your quote with the same coverage. If they can, call your own insurance company and ask them to match. If they won't, switch. We've successfully run this experiment amongst our staff every year." 2 Protect your no-claims bonus. Mr Rochford says: "It's pre-emptive but it could save you a lot if disaster strikes." 3 Review the value of your cars when renewing insurance. Cars depreciate year-on-year, so you should be insuring a progressively smaller amount each year. 4 Don't always assume third party insurance is cheaper. "Incredibly, sometimes fully comp can be cheaper," said Mr Rochford. Buying... new 1 Consider buying a new car on PCP finance. This method of financing a new car is fast growing in popularity as a cheaper alternative to traditional finance because you are effectively only financing the depreciation of the vehicle over three years. "I would add a note of caution, however," says Mr Rochford. "Many people are not aware that they will not own the car at the end of their three-year contract. So if they intend starting a new PCP finance agreement at the end of their current one, they should remember to put a little away each month as they won't have a trade-in for their next PCP and this method of finance typically requires a hefty deposit or trade-in."   2 Don't automatically assume that diesel power is right for you. "Diesel cars don't operate very well if always driven at low speeds for short distances, leading to costly repairs in the future," says Mr O'Donoghue. "If you drive less than 15,000km a year it's possible that a petrol-fuelled car would save you money in the long term." Buying... used 1    When buying a used car, focus on the car's condition and service history more than mileage, age or niceties such as alloy wheels. "A well cared for car will cost a lot less in the long run, regardless of mileage," says Mr Donoghue. 2 Get a car history check. "It will cost you about €20 but could save you thousands in unwanted problems if you buy a car with a hidden history," says Mr Rochford. Irish Independent 
