cars
{  
    November 22 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/started-car-to-eject-unwelcome-stranger-nurse-started-engine-in-bid-to-get-man-out-of-car-27760250.html }
A nurse told Rathdrum court that she started her car in a bid to get rid of a man who sat into the passenger seat without permission. Mother of two Rosemary Gaynor of 37 Beechwood, Laragh, said she intended to ring a friend to take her home on the occasion. She denied a charge of drunk driving at Lower Main Street, Rathdrum, on February 25 last, claiming that she started the car under duress and moved off slowly. She claimed she only started up her car to get the man, who she did not know, out of her car. The man, who jumped out of the car and ran when he saw the police, told Garda Sergeant Pat Cody that the reason he did so was because he was a married man and was in a car with another woman. Judge Donnchadh O'Buachalla, finding the facts proven, said he appreciated there were certain difficulties on this occasion. Rosemary Gaynor was fined £100 on the drunk driving charge and she was disqualified from driving for two years. Garda Sharon Doyle, Arklow, said that her attention was drawn to Rosemary Gaynor's car moving slowly and she thought was going to hit one of the parked vehicles. A man jumped out of the passenger seat of the car and ran. It was thought this man might have been involved in the earlier ramming of a patrol car. Rosemary Gaynor told Gda Doyle that she did not know the man who had been in her car and had told him to get out. She was very distressed and in fear and started the car and moved off slowly. Garda Doyle said that Ms Gaynor never mentioned coercion to her. Sgt Pat Cody, Wicklow, who was called to the ramming incident at Market Square, Rathdrum, asked the man, who had jumped out of the car, why he ran away. The man who was from Parnell Park explained that he was a married man and he was in a car with another woman that he should not be in. Garda Cody said that he knew the man well from the time he was stationed in Rathdrum and he had never known this man to be involved in the coercion of a driver. Garda D. Whelan said that on the evening in question he was patrolling Main Street in the search for the vehicle involved in the earlier ramming. He saw the defendant outside the Chinese restaurant and the man from Parnell Park was in her company. He spoke to the man and he did not think there was any difficulty between the pair. Rosemary Gaynor said that she was in the Woolpack public house. She had had a disagreement with her partner and that was the reason she in the public house on her own. She said she was there some time when a man came over and started chatting to her. She got up and left and went to the restaurant and when she got back to the car the man was in the passenger seat. She asked him what he was doing in the car and he replied that the door was open. She shouted at him to get out but he did not get out. She started the car, then the police arrived, and the man got out and ran. She said she did not know this man. She was not in the company of the man at the restaurant and she did not speak to Garda Whelan there. She got an awful shock when she saw the man in her car and was very afraid. She started the car to get him out as she did not know what to do. She was not intending to drive home, she was going to ring a friend to take her home. She agreed that the man did not use any threats or assault her but he was inside her car when he should not have been there. She agreed she did not tell this to the garda but said she had told her partner when she got home. 
