cars
{ EDDIE CUNNINGHAM 
    July 28 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/a-fifth-of-older-cars-likely-to-fail-road-test-26145627.html }
AS many as one-in-five of a projected 440,000 cars could fail the new road worthiness test when it is introduced next January, it emerged last night. While no firm Irish-based indications are yet available, figures from Spain suggest up to 20pc of vehicles tested could fail both first and second tests. Those carrying out the tests, on as many as 440,000 cars over eight years of age, said it is impossible to gauge Irish failure rates at this stage. DON'T PANIC A pilot free pre-test programme is in its infancy and insufficient to yield substantive indications. Owners of elderly cars should not panic or be forced into selling in the build up to the National Car Test (NCT). A wave of information on what will be required to pass the test is coming their way over the coming weeks and months. But judging by experiences in other countries, headlights, emissions and general body condition are most likely to warrant a re-test and, therefore, most pre-test attention. The test costs £35 and is mandatory every two years. If the car fails the initial test, it can be re-tested after further reparation. A re-test costs £19.80p provided it is within two weeks of the first test. After that it increases to £35 and a car can sit as many re-tests as possible. A re-test only requiring a forecourt inspection will be free. The SGS group's National Car Testing Service (NCTS), which will carry out testing at 43 centres around the country, yesterday said it will soon provide comprehensive outlines on the standards that will apply. It is able to do so because its structures and facilities are at an advanced stage of preparation. Yesterday it provided an update on progress and an outline of the countdown to T-Day (Test Day) on January 4. Trial testing has already begun in Athlone. It is only a week running but will give people an indication of the likelihood of a car passing the test. Company officials conceded higher failure rates could be expected initially but as owners and garages are more better attuned to what is required, cars will be better prepared and therefore less likely to fail. Owners will be contacted up to eight weeks in advance of the date by which their car must be tested. This is based on the date their car was first registered here. There will be a 1890 phone number to book tests and a two-week lead is expected to be the norm. Cars can be tested in any centre in the 26 counties. MOT tests on imported cars will not be recognised in Ireland. Cars first registered before January 1, 1992 (eight years or older) will be tested in the year 2000 and every two years after. In 2001, cars first registered between 1992-1996 will be tested and from 2002 onwards all cars of four years and older will be tested every two years. A car tester's manual will be published over the next few weeks to let people know what will be required. RUST RULES People with older cars should not be unduly worried about failing the emissions tests as standards will vary in accordance with the year of manufacture. For example, a 1984 car will not be expected to meet the emission standards of a 1997 vehicle with a catalytic converter. Rust will not fail a car either but it will if it represents a structural danger. The first-test failure rate in Spain is around 15-17pc with one-third of those failing the second test, giving a 20pc overall rate. France has a 25pc failure rate.  Among the items inspected in the NCT test will be the braking system, steering, windscreen, lighting and signalling, axles, wheels and tyres, transmission, bodywork, safety belts, exhausts, chassis and attachments and shock absorbers. 
