cars
{ MARTHA KEARNS 
    December 14 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/more-than-40-vehicles-a-day-being-stolen-26165396.html }
STOLEN car rackets are costing the country millions every year. More than 40 vehicles will be stolen every day in Ireland next year over 16,000 for the year. The majority of these will be ``unauthorised takings'' which include thefts by joyriders while around 2,500 will be larcenies. The number of vehicle larcenies in Ireland increased dramatically last year with an almost 40pc jump on 1996 figures. The total value of last year's 2,450 thefts was almost £8m yet only 63 vehicles were ever recovered. According to Garda sources, there are at least six organised gangs in Dublin dealing in stolen cars and they have connections with other gangs throughout the country. Most of the vehicles remain in Ireland and their identities are changed by swapping plates and log books with other vehicles of the same make and colour and sold on to unsuspecting buyers. Last year, the Garda stolen vehicle squad identified 208 vehicles with false number plates. Gardai are involved in a number of operations in an attempt to break the country's stolen car rackets. At the beginning of the month, four Dublin men were given a three-year suspended sentence for stealing and dismantling cars parts at The Coalyard on Dublin's South Circular Road. A similar scam is under investigation. ``We have come across breakers' yards who have tow trucks and literally tow cars away in broad daylight. Nobody pays any attention to it because they just think the car has broken down,'' said Det Garda Patrick Carr from the stolen vehicle squad. Stolen cars are also being brought into the country from places like Manchester and are being re-registered here. Although they are stolen they are almost impossible to trace as they have legitimate registrations. Gardai also have problems with owners actually facilitating the theft of their cars so they can claim the insurance. ``The amount of scams involving stolen cars is only as limited as the thieves imagination,'' Det Carr said. The rise in car thefts is not only bad news for those who lose their cars but also for the insurance industry. The industry's underwriting losses in motor insurances rocketed again this year to £114m. But at the end of the day it is the car owners who will lose out with hikes in their insurance premiums. However, a victim of a car theft is never fully compensated for their loss. ``One man had taken out a loan to buy his car to start up a hackney service. His car was stolen and he received £7,000 from the insurance company but still had £2,000 outstanding. He was out of pocket and couldn't afford to buy another car. That is the typical person who is getting ripped off,'' Det Carr said. Last year, cars comprised almost three quarters of the stolen vehicles at an average value of £3,272 each. Motocycles with an average value of £1,402 made up 22pc of the vehicles stolen. Det Carr warned consumers to be very wary when buying what seems like a ``good deal'' from someone they do not know. Buyers should check the chassis number on the car with the log book or bring an expert from a reputable garage with them to check the car out. ``People should also be wary when the seller says he will send the log book onto them in a few weeks. This usually means that the car doesn't have a log book because it's stolen.''  Stolen car rackets are costing the country millions every year but because the force is so short staffed there are only five gardai in its stolen car unit while England has such units connected to almost every station. 
