cars
{  
    September 19 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/option-of-seven-ev-switch-higher-seating-changing-hilux-fiesta-time-37330298.html }
<b>We want to change back to a seven-seater. We had a Santa Fé but found it expensive to run, so we down-sized to a 152-reg i40 SE Nav. It's a one-year-old import. I love it but we really need the option of changing to seven seats occasionally. </b> I would prefer an SUV-type. This would be the main family car. I'd also drive it to work (20 minutes); 90pc of my driving is local. Our budget is €15-€20k with our own as trade in. I have tried to sell it privately but no luck. I am also wondering, for best fuel economy, should I go petrol or diesel? Gillian: I would be interested in how much you are looking to sell it for privately because the saloon market is suffering a bit. That's because buyers, just like you, are shifting to SUVs. It shouldn't be too hard to shift the i40 at the right money. I will work off a budget of €28k to €33k overall. You don't really need a diesel doing just local journeys but you may be limited in choice with a petrol. A hybrid would suit for economy but, as a seven-seat, your options will be limited again. The Skoda Kodiaq 2.0 Dsl with a 171 plate would be in-budget, but they are scarce. You might squeeze into a new, or nearly new, Volkswagen Touran 1.6 Dsl, but not sure if the shape is what you are after. Peugeot may just have the car with the new 5008SUV. The 1.2 petrol engine would be my choice. A new Active 130 model is €31,745 new, but the Allure at €1k more might be worth the stretch. If you do like the idea of a hybrid, the Toyota Prius+ will suit, but again, not sure if the MPV shape is to your liking. Eddie: On balance, I think the Peugeot 5008 SUV (1.2 petrol) could be your prime target - only you don't get the hybrid you'd like. If you insist on the latter then you have to go Toyota Prius +. My Budget (including trade-in) €35k to -€40k. Mileage under 10,000km/year, four seats needed. Present car is 2008 BMW 520d Touring (100,000km). I need to change it because repairs have cost €4,700 in the past two years. We have two children under three, so I need some space. I am a company director and am thinking of buying an EV as there is 0pc BIK. The only ones I can find available are the Nissan Leaf, Hyundai Ioniq and e-Golf. I was going to buy an entry-level Volvo XC60 but read there will be more choices next year from Volvo, Jaguar and others. I use public transport to get to the office. I rarely use the car and travel longer journeys occasionally. My wife has a 4dr diesel saloon she is trading in next March for a seven-seater. But if I could get a large enough BEV, she'll get something smaller instead. I was going to spend €40k through the company. Are you aware of any more EV availability next year, or any advice? Gillian: You have mentioned the three fully electric models currently available for the average buyer, but I presume their smaller body shape than the 520d is putting you off. Hyundai are due to release their full-electric Kona at the end of the year, and starting at €35,995 after VRT and Government refunds, it would fit nicely in budget. As a compact SUV, it might be a little too small for your family, so perhaps the Nissan Leaf might be a better fit. Starting at €28,690 and coming in three specs, I'd recommend taking a look. A really interesting one due to be released in 2019 (maybe even later) is the Tesla Model 3. Follow that one up with Tesla Ireland, because they are currently taking reservations for expected 2019 deliveries. Eddie: I'll believe the Tesla arrival in 2019 when I see it, so let's deal with reality. I'm wondering why you wouldn't buy one of the smaller EVs through the company and have €10,000 or so to spare? I ask that because you say your wife is going to buy a seven-seater for the family. Do you need a big EV? However, if my logic doesn't do it for you, I would wait until next year if you can. There will be more choice and variations than now, that's for sure, including a KIA Niro EV. You mention Jaguar: its i-Pace is here and costs mid-€80,000s. However, I'd encourage you to wait or buy small. I'm driving a 151 Hyundai i30 diesel (90,000km). After a knee op I find it difficult getting into the low seating position, so I intend to change to something similar but with a higher seat. My daily commute is approx 60km round trip (myself and one passenger); mainly country roads. At weekends, I could carry up to four adults and equipment. Mileage is about 23k to 25k. The Toyota C-HR has good looks, Seat Arona is value, and the Hyundai Kona caught my eye too, not to mention models from Opel, Ford and Renault. However, the choice of engines has me confused. Does my mileage justify sticking with diesel? Are the new petrol engines just as economical? Should I consider hybrid? Budget is €17k to €18k plus trade-in, but I could stretch a bit for the right car. Gillian: For you, I would put petrol last, then hybrid and then diesel as top choice. I would have hybrid and diesel the same if they both offered similar choice in models, but unfortunately going hybrid is limiting your choice, so diesel wins for me. You are lucky you don't seem to be brand-biased. This means you get to enjoy time shopping to find the car that is right for you. Your budget allows you to buy new in all of the models you mentioned. The Kona and Arona are both available in 1.6 Dsl engines. Both would be good value for money and come with a choice of spec. The C-HR is Hybrid is more costly than the other two, pushing to the top end of the budget, starting at €30,400. Eddie: I'd go, if you can, without over-stretching and buy the Toyota C-HR hybrid. Ticks most boxes for you, I think. I currently drive a 2007 Toyota Hilux and no longer need it. I want to change to a car. My annual mileage is 30,000km. I do a lot of motorway driving. Would I be better buying an EV, a hybrid or a diesel? My daily commute is 140km with no charge point in work car park. My budget would be €15,000, but if I went for an EV I would push the boat out and get the difference. I'm just thinking of fuel economy and running costs. Gillian: Diesel it is, I feel, and here are my top picks with your budgets of €15,000. You could take benefit from the current switch of interest from saloons to SUVs and bag a bargain. A Kia Optima 1.7 Dsl Platinum is a well-specced motor and you could come up seven years from your 07 plate to a 141, maybe even an automatic. The Hyundai i40 would be a similar story, but look out for the Executive Plus model in this one. If you fancied something a little more executive, how about a BMW 520d? But you would be looking at around an 11-reg plate and perhaps higher ownership costs. Coming from a large machine you might like to ease yourself back to the car world, so maybe consider the likes of a Nissan Qashqai 1.5 diesel - €15k should get you a 141 SV spec and there should be plenty of them to choose from. Eddie: On your mileage, I'd be looking for a 2-litre diesel Skoda Superb. Big, roomy car. Good engine and with your budget you'll get a reasonably fresh model. Buy as low mileage as you can, even if it means dropping back an extra year. Simple question. I am 65 and only use my Ford Fiesta (2015) for short journeys. Total mileage is around 8,000km to 10,000km. I travel a bit to play golf sometimes. Should I buy another petrol Fiesta, or would I be able to manage an electric car? I am single, live alone and I could charge the car at my home. Gillian, Eddie: There is nothing to handle with owning an electric car other than we recommend you get an outdoor home-charging point installed. There is a €600 grant for this, so check www.seai.ie. Assuming your budget is new Ford Fiesta petrol territory (around €18k), you could pick up a fresh secondhand Nissan Leaf electric car or Renault Zoe. Your running costs will be low and you'll have few concerns about selling it on when you change again. It's doubtful if you'll stretch to nearly new electric Hyundai IONIQ - it's popular. A hybrid might also suit, so take a look at the Toyota Yaris. A new model is a bit more expensive at €19,850 for the Aura model. But we feel maybe the best thing to do this time is to change up to the new Ford Fiesta from your current 2015. You should get a good deal with your low annual mileage.  WE love getting your enquiries and try to reply to as many as possible here or via email. The ones dealt with here often represent a cross section of individual questions. You can help us help you with our free, independent, advice by including the following in your queries: ecunningham@independent.ie Irish Independent 
