cars
{  
    May 14 2012 08:59 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/death-crash-driver-27733185.html }
THE DRUNKEN MOTORIST whose dangerous driving caused the death of art student Kelly Gregan received a seven-year jail sentence last week, with the final two years suspended. Paddy Cash (25), of 81 Raithin Cuilin, Hollyfort Road, Gorey, and also of an address in Courtown Harbour, pleaded guilty before Judge Thomas Teehan at Wexford Circuit Criminal Court to dangerous driving causing death of Kelly Gregan at Main Street, Gorey, on October 24, 2010. During the course of the evidence the court was told by investigating Garda Eamonn O'sheil that the defendant, by his own admission, had consumed 6 to 7 pints of Guinness; 10 bottles of Guinness and 8 drinks of Aftershocks, Vodka and Guinness, between 7.30 p.m. and 2.00 a.m. the night of the accident. The court was also told by Garda O'sheil that Cash had driven at speed on roads outside Gorey while being chased by a Garda patrol car. The defendant turned off his lights approaching a junction to see if any car was approaching before driving through the junction without stopping, and continued on into Gorey along the Avenue with three garda patrol cars following. Cash then drove through the junction at the top of the main street, which was crowded with customers leaving the 02 night club. His car struck two girls, before continuing on through the junction out the Hollyfort road where the garda lost contact in the chase. The court was told that the defendant then drove his car up a laneway, and took off his shirt, setting it alight to help in burning out the vehicle. The car was found completely burned out later that morning by investigating gardai. The court also heard that when arrested the defendant denied knowing anything of what had happened, claiming that his car had earlier been stolen. It was some 18 days later, on the advice of his father and mother, that Cash accompanied his solicitor to Gorey Garda Station where he made a full admission. During the course of his evidence, Garda O'sheil told the court that the deceased, Kelly Gregan, was 20 years of age and an art student in Limerick. She lived with her mother and two sisters, at Kilcavan, Tara Hill, Gorey. He said that the charges had also included two counts of dangerous driving, amd two counts of hit and run, one for failing to stop, and a second count of failing to remain at the scene. Garda O'sheil said that on October 23, 2010, Kelly Gregan and her friend Gillian Fitzgerald went out to socialise in Gorey. After leaving the 02 nightclub at approximately 1.45 a.m. they went to a food outlet located some 100 metres from the club. After leaving the chip shop the girls went to cross the road to friends outside the AIB but were struck by Cash's red Laguna coming from the direction of The Avenue. Garda O'sheil said that earlier in the evening between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. Cash was out socialising having earlier been drinking at his home. At that point he had drank some five to six bottles of Guinness. After drinking at home he drove to an offlicence before returning to the family home and continuing to drink there. Shortly after midnight, Cash and others drove into the centre of Gorey from the family home, going to the Malibu night club on Pearse Street. At that point and time the defendant had another few drinks. When he left the premises at about 2.15 a.m. Garda Trevor Mccormack observed him walking on the footpath, at which time he appeared to be staggering and highly intoxicated. The decision was made to go to Courtown with the defendant driving the car. After crossing the Gorey/ballycanew road they found diversions in place for Courtown as the result of roadworks. Having turned the vehicle around, Cash drove through the crossroads, but on driving out on to the Banogue road he also found the road blocked. He drove up another road but on approaching a junction turned the lights of his vehicle off to ascertain if traffic was approaching from another direction, before driving straight through the junction. Garda O'sheil told the court that at this point a Garda Traffic Corps car observed the red Laguna driving through the junction without stopping. The speed of the vehicle was such the garda members observed the two rear wheels of the defendant's car leave the ground, while a taxi drincer named Mr. Brady, coming from the opposite direction, also observed the red Laguna being driven at speed around the bend sideways, forcing him to move off the road to avoid the vehicle. Garda O'sheil told the court that at this point a Garda Traffic Corps car observed the red Laguna driving through the junction without stopping. The speed of the vehicle was such the garda members observed the two rear wheels of the defendant's car leave the ground, while a taxi drincer named Mr. Brady, coming from the opposite direction, also observed the red Laguna being driven at speed around the bend sideways, forcing him to move off the road to avoid the vehicle. Garda O'sheil said that Garda Kavanagh, who was in the patrol car along with Garda Tobin, radioed for assistance. As a result of the call, several patrol cars operating in Gorey town made their way down The Avenue in an attempt to intercept the car before it reached the town. The three garda cars drove to a roundabout but a public services vehicle had blocked their entry onto the roundabout, leaving them to drive the wrong way round. Such was the speed of the red Laguna, they were unable to identify the vehicle number. The investigating Garda said that at this point patrons were exiting the 02 nightclub with Kelly Gregan and Gillian Fitzgerald among those on the Main Street. The two ladies, he said, went to cross the road when the car being driven by the defendant came up the Avenue at speed. The Garda said that four people ran and while two were pulled to get out of the way of the vehicle, Kelly Gregan and Gillian Fitzgerald were hit by the car. Other witnesses referred to the fact the brake lights never came on as the Laguna was driven through the junction at speed. He also said that CCTV footage had captured the incident. As the Laguna car sped out the Hollyfort Road, two patrol cars followed, but after a search could not find it. The vehicle was subsequently found that morning at around 6.30 a.m. some 2km from the town in a laneway. The investigation subsequently led to the arrest of the defendant, Paddy Cash, on October 26, 2010 at 6 p.m. in the family home. He was interviewed on a total of seven occasions. During those interviews he denied any knowledge of the incident. The account given by Cash in relation to the car on the night was that he had parked it outside the family home. He claimed that after he and his wife had gone out drinking, the car had been stolen. He said he did not know anything in relation to the incident. On November 11, 2010, the defendant in the company of his solicitor, David Tarrant, arrived at Gorey Garda Station where Cash gave a voluntary statement detailing the incident and revealing the amount of drink he had consumed on the night. The defendant, said Garda O'sheil, has 29 previous convictions, 28 road traffic related offences, while he was driving wzhile disqualified. Garda Sheil told the court that Kelly Gregan was home from the University of Limerick that weekend as it was her late father's birthday anniversary. Her father had died some two years earlier. Defence Counsel, Patrick Mccarthy, S.C., said Cash was attending the Cornmarket Centre as he tried to get his life back in order. He also said that in his statement he voluntarily disclosed the amount of drink he had taken. He is a married man with his wife expecting a baby in June. He asked that a custodial sentence be deferred until after the child was born. Judge Thomas Teehan said that words were quite inadequate to describe what befell the Gregan family on that Sunday morning. Judge Teehan sentenced the defendant to seven years in prison, with the final two years suspended, on condition the defendant enter a bond to keep the peace for seven years on his release from prison. He also disqualified Cash from driving for 20 years. Judge Teehan said that given the time to when the child is to be born, which was June 24, he refused to defer sentence. Leave to appeal was also refused. 
