cars
{  
    February 05 2020 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/are-you-buying-a-new-or-second-hand-car-our-experts-answer-your-questions-38927509.html }
Car-value expert Gillian Keogh teams up with Motoring Editor Eddie Cunningham to help you make the right choice with your next purchase. Gillian is Editor of a monthly guidebook on the values of used cars produced by the Motor Trade Publishers team. The team supplies a car-valuing service to the motor trade, insurance companies and finance houses. Q I've had a 131 Volkswagen CC since 2015 and I'm considering upgrading. The car has 141,000km up, is in excellent condition and is the 2.0 diesel BMT sports model so has loads of extras including full leather. Annual mileage is about 20,000km. Estimated value is €12,000 and I would try to sell privately. I had considered hybrids such as the Lexus IS300h, Toyota Camry but I don't think electric or hybrid would be economical for me as I mostly do motorway driving with trips to the south-west on occasion. As the car is going well, I'd consider keeping it for another year. Otherwise I'd consider a Mercedes C-Class, CLA, Audi A3 saloon, Mazda6 Platinum or similar, all diesel and no older than 181. The VW Arteon is too pricey. Budget including current car is around €30,000. I'd appreciate your advice.  Gillian: We have similar tastes in cars. A hybrid would be fine, and I wouldn't be put off buying one. However, for the money you have, the IS wouldn't be in my top picks. A new model is only out since late 2018 and won't fit in your €30,000 budget. I am a CLA fan so that would be my first choice closely followed by the A3 saloon. Usually I'd have a C-Class above a Mazda6, but it just doesn't seem to fit in with the others. Forgive me for saying this, but it sounds a little mature for you. I could be wrong and there are some high spec models out there for reasonable money; unless you are thinking of the C-Class Coupé which has a better ring to it. You could hold onto the CC for another six to 12 months and I wouldn't fret about losing much more money on it. Eddie: Sorry Gillian, but I think the Merc C-Class is a logical step from the CC. I think the saloon would be an excellent choice. I'd move fairly quickly to change too. Q Back in 2016, I took your advice and bought a 131-reg Kia Sportage 1.7 CRDI and I have been delighted with it. Now I am considering buying a hybrid car, but I know little about them. I am looking for your good advice again. I have a cash buyer for my Kia (family member) and my budget will be €20/€22,000. I do not want a new car and would like to go up to 2017/18? I love the height the Kia gave and would like to keep that, so a crossover of some description would be great. I don't mind if I have to buy smaller to keep within budget as it's a second family car and mileage is always very low. (I do like a nice-looking car though). Some background on hybrids would be appreciated. Gillian: A self-charging hybrid engine will feel no different to your Sportage, except you will fill up with petrol instead of diesel (there are a few diesel hybrids). There is no plugging-in involved. The car will switch between a petrol engine and an electric engine automatically. The SUV range is much more limited than sticking with a diesel or going for a petrol, but it is possible and I would start with a Toyota C-HR. The second row seating can be tight for some but this isn't an issue for you. A 2017 will work too. Another option is a Kia Niro hybrid; it has a seven-year warranty so you will still get the benefit of this for some time. I prefer the Toyota styling but have no issues with the Kia. A Volkswagen T-Roc is another choice as is the SEAT Ateca, which will just about squeeze in for a two-year-old. Both look great, are enjoyable drives and the ride height is similar to what you have now. Eddie: I'd go for the Kia Niro. Nice height, sweet drive, unfussy and you should have up to five years warranty left. Q I have always driven a Toyota Corolla diesel. Current car is a Corolla Luna 161 D4D bought new in 2016. Would have changed it in 191 but no Toyota diesel on market now. Budget €10,000; 110,000 km on clock almost. Car used for travel to work plus weekend social driving. Any advice please? Gillian: Your current odometer reading sounds like another diesel alright. Sticking with the same new price you would typically spend on a Corolla with Luna spec (€25,000), my suggestions are Hyundai i30 Deluxe and Kia Cee'd K3. I would love to throw in the Honda Civic, but it might be too far over budget. If you can stretch a bit more, please consider it. Long-term Toyota drivers don't typically move to German brands so that's why I am not going there. Eddie: Good choices Gillian. Can I suggest a non-German addition to the list? A Skoda Octavia diesel? Q Here is my situation: Current car - Skoda Octavia; 142-reg; 90,000km; FSH with Skoda; in good condition; no finance attached. Monday-Friday commute to town; 6km each way; city driving. Occasional trips for work down the country, average maybe once a fortnight 200km round-trip. Weekend: some family visits, mostly local; and trip to golf club which is 90km away/an hour or so drive, mostly motorway. I do 17,000km a year; 90pc of driving on my own; occasional need for back-seats (family/adult children as passengers). I previously had an MX-5 and loved it - but it's obviously not practical (golf clubs and trolley). I like the Octavia. Budget: trade-in plus, say, €20,000 - might be stretched for something special. Perfect car? MX-5 with a couple of seats in the back for occasional use and a boot big enough for golf equipment. Requirement: something with a bit of oomph but also meets the practical (boring I know) needs for a golfer. Gillian: The Octavia has one of the biggest boots in its class so you have been spoilt for space and yes, the MX-5 wouldn't be popular with regulars of a fairway. With around €30,000 you could go for a brand new 201-plate Octavia but an Audi A5, BMW 4 Series and Mercedes C-Class Coupé are my initial thoughts (in that order). The boot is best in the Audi. This one is a bit out there, but then again so is your MX-5, so how about a VW Arteon? The boot is larger than the A5 and its styling is impressive. Priced the same as the others, but I think I would rather an Audi, BMW or Merc waiting for me after 18 holes. Eddie: You like the Octavia you say. Why not stick with a newer one? It meets your practical needs. Flights of fancy can be costly. Q I am one of those people wanting to trade in my 151 diesel Hyundai car. I'm checking the new Ford Puma. I am a retired lady living alone 10km from nearest town. I really don't know what's best to do and need advice from an independent person - not a salesman in a garage. Can you advise me please? Thank you. Gillian: I am so glad you brought this car up. I haven't driven the Puma crossover yet so can't comment on it but my gosh does it look good. I used to own the old model Puma hatchback when I was a young one and to this day, it is still one of my favourites. The new model comes with a 1.0 mild hybrid engine. Currently there are 3 spec choices; Titanium, ST-Line and ST-Line X with prices ranging from €24,299 to €27,699. Eddie drove it abroad recently. Over to you Eddie. Eddie: I was pleasantly surprised by how good the Puma was to drive and expect you will like it. Others worth a look are the new Nissan Juke, revised Renault Captur and Volkswagen T-Cross. Indo Motoring 
