cars
{  
    October 15 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/dont-let-boom-times-blur-good-car-buying-sense-26106751.html }
As auto sales break all records, Bill Tyson, Personal Finance  Editor, offers tips to buyers, whose options are now greater  than ever THE revving of car engines, many of them new, has provided much of the soundtrack to Ireland's economic boom. A gleaming new `motor' is the ultimate status symbol for most people and it is one of the first things they splash out on when they have cash to spare - or even when they don't! New car sales are expected to top 200,000 this year, with another 450,000 changing hands in the second-hand market. However, there are also many potential pitfalls which are behind many of the questions received by the Irish Independent. Here, we will attempt to provide most of the answers with help from the European Consumer Centre, which has just produced a new leaflet on the issue. The first issue is finance. Personally, I like the quaint, old-fashioned notion of actually owning your car, or at least having a token aspiration in that direction. I think you should stump up a large part of the purchase price, borrow as little as possible from the cheapest source and shop around for the best bargain. Then you should pay off the debt as quickly as possible with a view to becoming the owner of your car. However, that notion is as far removed from modern Ireland as de Valera's ``comely maidens dancing at the crossroads.'' The more likely scenario is: 1. See gizmo-packed, turbo-charged coupé you cannot afford. 2. Talk to sharp-suited, fast talking Arthur Daly-type salesman who will convince you that you can, through a fancy finance package you don't understand. 3. Spend three years paying off crippling car repayments at the end of which you face an enormous balloon payment you would not be able to raise in a million years. 4. Give back the car for nothing (you don't own any part of it - the balloon payment represents current value after three years). 5. Start the whole process all over again with a new car. Effectively, these new - and extremely popular - finance deals are expensive rental arrangements. You get to drive newish cars but pay very dearly for doing so, and never acquire any ownership of them. That's exactly what the motor companies want because they make much of their profits now from flogging car finance rather than cars. So don't be too envious of your neighbour's new '00-reg car. He or she probably doesn't own even a small part of it. To my mind, owning your own car is a more impressive status symbol, but not a very popular one because you cannot advertise that fact on your car registration. There are better options than balloon payments. In fact, any option is better. The dealer may offer 0pc finance deals, which sound very attractive and often are. But you could then miss out on a 10pc discount that often applies to cash purchases. Bank loans have become pretty competitive for car finance, while some credit unions also provide good deals. However, others may still stick to their 12.6pc standard rate, which is not great value. Also remember that you don't have to buy a new car. Best value for money are cars one year old, because new ones depreciate fastest in the 12 months after purchase. There are plenty of cheap cars in the second hand market due to the huge demand for new ones. If you are buying a car, the European Consumer Centre has some tips in its new guide: 1. All credit advertisements must show the Annual Percentage Rate of Charge (APR) which is the total cost of credit. Remember to compare like with like - a three year loan with a three year loan, for example. 2. Garages which offer finance packages must hold an authorisation issued by the Director of Consumer Affairs. They are also obliged to detail the nature of the finance, the amount, number and frequency of payments and, where applicable, the APR. They should also state who has the ownership of the goods during the agreement. Don't automatically accept finance arranged by the dealer. He or she may be paid commission to steer you in a particular direction. Ask how many finance options have been considered in drawing up the quote. 3. Establish what type of agreement you are entering into and take time to read the contract carefully to see what your rights and obligations are. If necessary seek financial advice. 4. Do not confuse a hire purchase agreement with a consumer-hire agreement. In a hire purchase agreement you are hiring the car and ownership of the car only passes to the purchaser when the last payment has been made. In a consumer-hire agreement you are leasing the goods only for the duration of the contract. 5. If you change your mind after signing an agreement, you may still withdraw from the contract within ten days of receiving a copy by giving notice in writing - unless you waive these rights. Carefully consider whether or not to waive your `cooling-off rights' when completing the form. What rights do I have when buying a new car? When you buy a new car you enter into a contract with the garage/car dealer. Under the Sale of Goods & Supply of Services Act, 1980, you are entitled to expect that the car is of merchantable quality. That is, it should be fit for its purpose and as described. What are my rights if things go wrong with a new car? If you buy a car that is not of satisfactory quality you may be entitled to: 1. Have the car repaired promptly; 2. Have the car replaced. If this is not carried out in a reasonable period of time then you may be entitled to: 3. Have your money refunded. What are my rights if the repair does not work? If the fault reoccurs, you may be entitled to ask for a replacement car. Act promptly as your rights diminish over time. Remember to gather documentary evidence to support your case. The garage/car manufacturer is entitled to inspect the car. The following will help you to enforce your rights: 1. Get your car independently tested to assess the nature of the fault. 2. Put your complaint to the garage in writing. 3. If the garage is a member of the Society of the Irish Motor Industry (SIMI), they may investigate the complaint on your behalf. 4. If you have purchased/hired the car on credit, advise your finance company of the problem. If necessary, appoint a solicitor who can act on your behalf. Who is responsible for putting things right? Your contract is with the garage/car dealer who sold you the car so they should provide you with the redress. In a hire purchase or consumer hire agreement, both the seller and the car finance company are jointly liable to the hirer for the conditions of sale. Further information and a copy of the car purchase guide is available from: European Consumer Centre Consumer Advice Shop (near Savoy Cinema), 13A Upper O'Connell Street, Dublin 1 Tel: 01 8090600 E-Mail: ecic@indigo.ie Web: www.ecic.ie 
