cars
{ Aidan Timmons and Eddie Cunningham 
    November 18 2014 04:39 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/buying-in-the-new-year-keep-these-tips-in-mind-and-drive-yourself-a-better-deal-30754832.html }
Eddie: As we approach year's end, many of you are considering buying a second-hand car in the new year. Here are some of the most important factors to remember to ensure you get the best deal. Aidan, you go first and I'll add my tuppence later. Aidan: Glad to. Here goes. 1. Enquire early: Most car dealers are already busy taking orders for new cars due to arrive early next year. In many cases the transaction involves a customer trading in their used car. Even if you're not in the market for a new car, now is a good time to drop into a local dealer and find out if the car you've got your eye on is due to be used as a part exchange. If it is, mark your interest or give your dealer an indication of what you're looking for. This way you don't miss out on some nice trade-ins. 2. Be patient: Unless you have a particularly pressing need, be patient and wait for the 2015 market to gather pace. The new-car market begins in January but really only hits maturity some time around early March. Not all new car orders can be fulfilled in the first month of the year so dealers will still have a steady stream of trade-ins arriving throughout the entire first quarter. You're not missing out on too much by purchasing a used car in March or April rather than in January. And don't panic if the car you had your sights on is sold before you've had a chance to go see it; time is on your side so you can afford to wait for the right car. 3. We are inundated every week here with queries on whether to opt for a petrol or a diesel car. While a steady 75pc of new-car buyers still plump for diesels, used petrols, particularly from 2010 onwards, have improved their CO2 values dramatically and represent good value for money. If, to avoid paying higher motor tax, you bought a diesel car since 2008 but only cover moderate mileage (under 20,000 kilometres annually) then a used petrol could be a sensible purchase this time around. Besides, trading in a diesel against a petrol should place you in reasonable favour with most dealers. Maybe it's time to start thinking about petrol again. 4. Cost to change. This one is relevant no matter when you buy. If you are trading in to a dealer, ensure you focus primarily on the amount of money the transaction will ultimately cost you. This is called the 'cost to change'. If it helps, consider this scenario. Dealer 'A' has the car you want and is charging €20,000 for it. He/she offers you a trade-in allowance of €11,000 for your own. Next door, Dealer 'B' charges €19,000 for the car you want but only offers you €10,000 for yours. It seems like simple arithmetic but you might be surprised at the number who opt for Dealer A's car "because he/she offered me more money for my own car". In both cases, the transaction will cost €9,000. 5. Strong values: This is cheating a bit because it's advice on buying a used car today and not in 2015, but it stems from the development in used car values. Historically, prices fell more substantially through the turn of the year and as a new registration plate was introduced. I'm over simplifying it, but essentially all used cars become one year older on January 1, in plate terms at least. While values will fall more than in a regular mid-year month, the used car market is strong and values are holding steady. If you find a car that suits you today, and can thrash out a decent deal, then it might be prudent to buy now and not wait for any massive discounts in the New Year as they might not come to fruition. 6. Finance: Credit has freeded up considerably. The cost of credit makes purchasing a car more attractive now than it has been for quite some time. Some banks and lenders are offering PCP (Personal Contract Plans) on used cars up to 18 months old. The interest on these loans is generally lower than for a standard Hire Purchase agreement so it is worth having a word with your dealer or lender about your options. It's also advisable to take some time to study the various permutations at the end of a PCP deal to see if this option is right for you. 7. Watch for special edition specs: With new car sales on the floor over the previous six years, manufacturers made valiant attempts to attract as many buyers as possible by cramming their cars with the latest technology and creature comforts. It might be worth taking some time to research whether the car you are considering was treated with some special edition specification or if even if your budget coincides with a 'run-out' model. Oftentimes, manufacturers dress up outgoing models with great levels of specification. Eddie: 8. I think there is a growing awareness that full service records are an absolute necessity before anyone should even consider looking at a used car. Yet I know of cases where people trusted the seller and lived to regret it. The excuses always run the same. Ah! sure someone forgot to fill it in. Or the seller got it done with Johnny down the road for half what it would have cost at the dealership. I don't care what you're told: Unless there is a full, and traceable, service record do not go near the car. 9. If I had a euro for the number of people who fell into the trap of buying the car they'd love rather than the one they need I'd have enough to buy a car I love. I keep reminding people of a basic question: "What do I need?" After that everything falls into place. 10. Make sure the car suits/fits you. Sit in and stay there for a while. Check adjustment on the steering wheel and, more importantly, seat. If you are going to spend an hour or two every day in a crouched, awkward pose, on poor seats, trust me you are going to get yourself a painful back, shoulders or neck. And if it means you crouching to get in or out, feeling cramped or stretched to get into a safe, comfortable position, it is no good to you. 11. I always advocate you should look and bargain for as long a warranty as possible. It is self-evident. The seller may load on extra euro for the security but I'm inclined to think it is worth it for your peace of mind. 12. Check out the dealer: is there good backup? A good service area? Saving €200 on a 'better' deal 40kms away might be short-lived prudence. Talk to others (in the showroom, over the garden wall, in the pub) about how they are treated by their dealer. A good dealer is priceless. Don't let money be your sole guide. 13. There is a temptation and danger of overstretching yourself financially, especially these days as credit is easier to get. You'd be surprised how easily you'd glide from €250 a month repayments, for example, to €320. It doesn't sound like a lot but it is €840 a year more. That's €1,500 you have to earn before tax. Add it to your monthly outgoings and you may discover something else is suffering. Do your sums and stick to them. 14. Give yourself a while (couple of days?) to 'cool off'. It can be exciting and fun to be buying but give yourself a chance. If the car you fell in love with is gone when you go back, trust me, another will come along. Don't rush. There is too much at stake. And when you do buy, be careful out there. We wish you good buying and safe driving. Indo Motoring 
