cars
{  
    February 23 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/judge-reserves-decision-as-defendant-denies-being-drunk-during-alleged-hammer-attack-on-car-27118754.html }
A man  accused of attacking a fisherman's car with a hammer denied being drunk when the incident occurred, Drogheda Civil Court heard yesterday (Tuesday). The fisherman had alleged when the case first came before the court last July that he was threatened and had his car damaged in an incident along the river Boyne. At that hearing which was subsequently adjourned the court heard evidence from the plaintiff Anthony Lane of Hillview House Balgathern Drogheda who claimed that he was forced to take the case against Jack Marry of Dowdstown because the gardai had taken no action following the incident. Mr. Lane was suing for £5,000 damages for loss and expense arising out of the incident when the defendant suddenly and without warning attacked the plaintiff's motor vehicle with a hammer which caused extreme damage to his motor vehicle. He was also claiming £1,500 for damage to the motor vehicle and the cost of car hire, and the balance for distress and inconvenience. However on Tuesday Mr. Brian Johnson, solicitor for Mr. Lane, said that the plaintiff was withdrawing the claim for car damage on the instruction of the company for whom he worked. The company owned the car. Mr. Lane had told the court in July that the car in question was owned by the company in Dublin where he worked and that he was responsible for it. On hearing that the claim for car damage was being withdrawn barrister Kevin Segrave, instructed by defence solicitor Kevin Byrne, asked that the case be dismissed. However Brian Johnson said that his client was still claiming for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of the incident. Judge Flann Brennan said that he was prepared to let the case go ahead but would be prepared to listen to any submissions from Mr. Segrave at the end. In July Mr. Lane told the court that on July 10, 1999, he was fishing on the River Boyne around 10-10.30pm in the evening. He heard a bang and was worried that maybe someone was at his car. He said he walked towards his car and saw a person walking around his car. He didn't know who it was and said he thought it was someone breaking into it, but as he got to the gate he realised it was Mr. Jack Marry and he alleged that he was hitting his car with a hammer. Mr. Lane claimed that Mr. Marry leaned across the gate with a hammer and abused him verbally and told him that he shouldn't be fishing there and to get off his f****** land. He said that he asked Mr. Marry to move away from the gate so that he could make his way to the car. However, Mr. Marry, he claimed, started to kick his car and told Mr Lane that if he went through the gate he would f****** split his head open with the hammer. He alleged that Mr. Marry fell and that there was an intoxicating smell from his breath. Mr. Lane further claimed that when he was ringing the gardai Mr. Marry said to him ‘it's a total waste of time calling the b******* because, they wouldn't do anything to him.’ The plaintiff said that Mr. Marry got into the jeep and that he put his hand through the window of the jeep to try and get his keys to stop him from leaving and that Mr. Marry trapped his arm in the window as he started to move away. He said that he gave the gardai the number of the jeep and claimed that when the gardai arrived they told him that the man was stone drunk and that they would talk to him when he was sober. Mr. Lane told Judge Flann Brennan that despite repeated inquiries to the investigating officer Garda Charlie O'Hanlon no case was ever brought against Jack Marry which was why he took the civil action. On Tuesday last under cross-examination by Mr. Segrave the plaintiff said that originally he had expected the case to be taken through the gardai but that the gardai never followed up the incident. ‘All I wanted to see and still want to see today is justice being done,’ he said adding that he was not taking the case just for compensation purposes. When Mr. Segrave put it to him as to why he was originally seeking costs for damage to the car when the car never belonged to him the plaintiff replied that he was the sole driver at the time and was responsible for it. It was a company car and the only reason the action in relation to the car damage was being dropped was because the company had been taken over by another and their solicitors had decided to relinquish any claim. Mr. Segrave asked the plaintiff what had now become of the car and he replied by saying that it had been mysteriously gone on fire in January of last year. Why then had he been prepared to continue with the car damage claim, the barrister asked? ‘I have to suggest to you that the reason you decided to drop the claim was because you knew that you would be caught out,’ he said. He asked how the damage was caused to the car. 'Number one by a hammer and number two by a kick,’ the plaintiff responded. Asked why he had never made a written statement to the gardai the plaintiff pointed out that he had endeavoured to so. He said that he had gone to the Garda station as requested but that the investigating Garda, Charlie O'Hanlon, never showed up. ‘I waited in the garda station for two and a half hours and I was told that the garda would be here shortly and had got delayed. Eventually I just handed in my estimate for the car repairs and left.’ He said that he decided to take the civil action only when he realised that the gardai were not going to press charges. He further revealed that he had contacted the Garda Complaints Board and an investigation was currently taking place into the incident. ‘I feel very much aggrieved about the incident that happened. I believe that the gardai should have acted and done their duty to the public.’ Mr. Segrave put it to the plaintiff that his distress and upset seemed to be coming from two sources, the first alleged incident and secondly the gardai. ‘I am a PAYE worker, I respect the law and I expect everyone else to respect the law.’ Jack Martin, a witness for the plaintiff, said that he had been working on his farmyard on the evening in question and had heard a bang and loud noise out on the road. ‘I didn't pass too much heed at first but then I heard roaring and shouting and decide to walk down and look out. ‘I could see Mr.Marry with a hammer in his hand and he was waving it around.’ He said that Mr. Lane had the mobile phone and said he was going to ring the gardai and alleged that Mr. Marry said ‘you needn't ring those shower of bastards, they won't do anything to me anyway.’ Mr. Martin said that Mr. Marry started to drive away in his jeep and that Mr. Lane put his hand in the window to try and stop him. ‘Mr. Marry wound up the window and Mr. Lane's hand was caught in it. ‘If he hadn't have got free he would have been dragged along the road,’ the witness claimed. In reply to Mr. Brian Johnson, solicitor for the plaintiff, Mr. Martin said that he knew Mr. Marry well and pointed him out in court adding that they were neighbours. He said that he seen the damage to the car and that there were marks of the hammer on the mirror and front wing. He said that he was also there when the gardai arrived and that they examined the damage. ‘They said they'd go up to Mr. Marry's house and came back and said that Mr. Marry didn't deny the incident but was too drunk and that they'd talk to him again on Monday.’ The witness said that the gardai took his name and said that they would contact him but that they hadn't been in touch since. Mr. Johnson attempted to ask the witness about a fire when Mr. Segrave interrupted him and asked what relevance it had with the case before the court. ‘This is outrageous if he is doing what I think he is trying to do. If there are any other allegations being made in this court let them be done openly.’ However Judge Flank Brennan allowed the question. ‘The tyres of my tractor and jeep were slashed for no apparent reason and my jeep was burned out mysteriously outside my home. ‘The gardai never got anyone for it,’ Mr. Martin said. Under cross-examination by Mr. Segrave Mr. Martin said that he had about two or three meetings with the plaintiff to discuss the case. ‘I was basically asking him why the gardai never contacted me to make statements.’ Asked if he knew the plaintiff well the witness said that he knew him all his life and that he was in fact his nephew. He confirmed that he never actually saw Mr. Marry cause the damage to the car. In evidence Garda, Charlie O'Hanlon, said that he was called out to investigate the alleged incident and that when he arrived at the scene he spoke to Mr. Lane who told him what happened. He said that he also spoke with Mr. Martin. He said that he subsequently called to Mr. Jack Marry's house and that when he arrived he and his wife were in the kitchen having a drink. He said that Mr. Marry admitted that there had been an incident and didn't deny that he had caused the damage. ‘He had drink taken and I told him that I would call back the following week. ‘I subsequently went back to Mr. Lane and told him to get an estimate for the damage to the car,’ the Garda said. Garda O'Hanlon, under questioning by Brian Johnson, said that he told the plaintiff to call into the station to make a written statement but that this never happened. He admitted that an estimate had been dropped into the station. He said that he had spoken to Mr. Lane on the phone numerous times but ‘Anthony never made written statement, there was no evidence of assault,’ he said. Mr. Johnson asked Garda O'Hanlon would he normally leave it to the victim to pursue a matter of this nature. Garda O'Hanlon confirmed that he had received a letter from the plaintiff's solicitors in relation to statements. Under cross-examination by Mr. Segrave he further added that it was fairly standard to receive letters of this nature in relation to civil proceedings. ‘At no time then did they complain or suggest to you that the gardai had behaved badly did they,’ asked Mr. Segrave to which Garda O'Hanlon said no. He said that when he spoke to Mr. Lane at the time of the incident he didn't appear agitated. ‘I wouldn't say he was distressed.’ He further added that he certainly wasn't aware that Mr. Lane had to wait two and a half hours for him. ‘It's possible you could ask someone to call in to make a statement and you could be out on another matter and he'd be told to call back. I contacted Mr. Lane by phone on a number of occasions to come and make a statement but he didn't.’ Mr. Johnson asked the garda had he any details in his notebook of when these calls actually took place. Garda O'Hanlon said that he didn't but that he rang a couple of times both from his home and the garda station. ‘Mr. Lane will say that you made no calls to him at all,’ Mr. Johnson said. ‘Would that be a mistake on his part.?’ Judge Flann Brennan asked the Garda if he remembered what Mr. Lane had originally alleged Mr. Marry had done. ‘He said that he struck the car on a number of occasions with his hammer,’ the Garda replied. The Judge said that at the scene both Mr. Lane and Mr. Martin said that Mr. Marry was drunk. ‘Why did you not arrest Mr. Marry?,’ the Judge asked. ‘He didn't appear to have that much drink taken,’ replied the garda. Noeleen Lane, wife of the plaintiff, said that her husband had suffered greatly as a result of the incident. ‘When he came home he wasn't the Anthony who walked out of the house that day. He was very upset, I think he was in shock. I know he didn't get much sleep that night. ‘From then on he has been unwell. At the beginning of September he literally wasn't able to get up out of the bed and I brought him to the doctor where he was diagnosed with high blood pressure. ‘He was completely stressed out. Anything else has had to be put on the back burner because he was extremely unwell.’ She said that before the incident her husband had never been to a doctor. ‘He couldn't partake in family life because he has been so unwell and I have been very worried about him.’ Under cross-examination by Mr. Segrave Mrs Lane said that she blamed the incident for her husband's illness. ‘Could it not have been anything else,’ asked the barrister. ‘No’, she replied. ‘He was never sick before this.’ In evidence, Mr. Marry said that Mr. Hanratty, his employee had been in the passenger seat during the incident. Mr. Johnson put it to him that Mr. Hanratty was not there at all. The witness explained that to get Mr. Lane's attention he asked Mr. Hanratty to give him a wrench from the repair kit to ‘rattle’ the gate. Mr. Johnson said that his client had finished fishing for the day and was going back to his car. ‘It was only when he was 20 to 30 yards away when he realised that you were hitting his car,’ he said. After he had got his attention Mr. Marry jumped off the gate and accidentally hit the mirror on Mr. Lane's car and there was no further incident after that. Mr. Marry said he apologised and offered to pay for the damage before driving off. ‘He said he would phone the gardai, and you said phone away,’ Mr. Johnson told the witness. Mr. Marry didn't think Mr. Lane would phone the Gardai, and told him he would be up in his house. The witness said Mr. Lane did not try to stop him leaving. He denied that he had been drinking that day, but when he returned home he was very ‘shook up’ and his wife asked if he wanted a drink. The drink was in front of him when the Gardai arrived but he had no drink taken. Mr. Johnson said that his client said Mr. Marry was drunk at the time of the incident and the investigating garda had formed the opinion that he had drink taken. ‘I have to put it to you that you were drunk and you attacked Mr. Lane's car in a completely unprovoked manner. ‘You kicked the car when you left and drove off with Mr. Lane's hand trapped in the car,’ Mr. Johnson said to the witness. Mr. Marry denied this. He also said that the defendant kicked his client's car before leaving. Mr. Marry said this was totally untrue. He further put it to the witness that Mr. Lane had never received a solicitor's letter from him. James Hanratty told the court that during the incident, Mr. Marry stood up on the gate and was shouting across the field but not getting any attention. Mr. Hanratty could not see who was in the field at that stage. Mr. Marry came back to the jeep and asked for something to tap the gate with. He gave him a spanner. The witness didn't see anyone come until Mr. Marry jumped back off the gate and stumbled and struck the car. Mr. Lane began shouting and roaring: ‘you're “bating” me car.’ He went ‘stone mad’ over the incident, Mr. Hanratty maintained. He denied that Mr. Marry had been drunk, saying that he wouldn't have travelled with him if he was. There was no smell of alcohol in the jeep. When asked if Mr. Marry had done anything else to distress Mr. Lane, the witness replied: 'not as far as I could see'. Mr. Lane was using strong language. Mr. Hanratty stressed that he was in the front of the jeep and could see everything that was going on. He didn't get out of the jeep during the incident as he didn't want to get involved, and because he would have had to go across to the driver's side. Mr. Johnson put it to him that there would have been enough space to get off the gate without striking the car quite comfortably. The witness said he did not see Mr. Martin there. He also added that Mr. Lane had thumped Mr. Marry's car. ‘It was an outrageous scene of shouting and bad language,’ he told the court. Judge Flann Brennan said he would reserve his decision and adjourned the case until March 20. 
