cars
{  
    October 24 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/two-newry-men-given-three-years-in-jail-for-car-jackings-26907059.html }
John Ward, (25) 16 Ardaveen, Bessbrook, as jailed for four years while John Purcell (26) of 28 Drumalane Park, was sentenced to three years in jail.Evidence was given that the men were arrested after gardai spotted them in a silver Audi car which they had hi-jacked from a woman the previous day. The Audi was driven towards a garda patrol car as the men tried to escape. The c John Ward, (25) 16 Ardaveen, Bessbrook, as jailed for four years while John Purcell (26) of 28 Drumalane Park, was sentenced to three years in jail. Evidence was given that the men were arrested after gardai spotted them in a silver Audi car which they had hi-jacked from a woman the previous day. The Audi was driven towards a garda patrol car as the men tried to escape. The chain of events started when Ms Brigid Johnson parked her black VW Golf car at Jocelyn Street in Dundalk on May 11th last. She had pulled in to take a phone call and while she was on the phone she noticed a number of men acting suspiciously. One of the men came up to the car and asked for directions. She had her window down and suddenly a second man came over and produced a screw-driver which he shoved in her face. He shouted at her to “get the f*** out of the car”. She was absolutely terrified and grabbed her handbag before getting out of the car. The two men got in her car and drove towards the town centre before doing a u-turn and crashing into a parked jeep. The two culprits then got out of the car and ran in opposite directions. Ms Johnson identified John Ward in a line-up on June 3rd as the man who had asked for directions. The hi-jacking had been a very traumatic experience for her, added Dt Gda Charlie Geoghegan. The next hi-jacking occurred on May 31st Mrs. Frances Ferman was returning home to Knockbridge from Carlingford. As she was driving a silver Audi along the Inner Relief Road she saw a Northern Ireland registered Audi driving behind her at speed before pulling back. She became worried about the way in which the car was being driven and pulled off the by-pass at Quay Street in an effort to get away from the car. As she pulled left, her car was hit from behind by the car which had followed her from the Ballymascanlon roundabout. She got out of the car and the occupants of the other car then pushed passed her and jumped straight into her car. They spun away, heading in a northern direction. She later identified John Ward during an identification parade. Dt Gda Geoghegan said that Mrs. Ferman, a married woman with a family, had taken three days off work following the incident. She was now very reluctant to drive after dark and is afraid if a car drives up close behind her. She also drives a 9 year old car and refused to drive her husband’s car as she fears she would be a target for a similar attack if she were driving a newer model. The Gardai were very anxious to put an end to these incidents, and a number of measures were put in place, with suspect vehicles being watched. Arrests On June 2nd, a NI registered Audi was observed by gardai and followed into the car park of Ballymascanlon Hotel. Gardai Egan and Fennell saw the car drive in and out through parked cars and Gda Egan recognised the driver as John Purcell. They turned on the flashing light and siren. The Audi drove at the patrol car in order to escape and when this failed, it then reversed away from the patrol car. Gda Egan followed in the patrol car, and the Audi attempted to reverse around a parked car before stalling. Gda Fennell jumped out of the patrol car and ran over to the Audi but the occupants refused to open the door. They then took off again and Gda Fennell jumped back into the patrol car which followed the Audi. The Audi missed the exit and ended up in a dead end. It then turned and drove straight towards the patrol car, swerving at the last second. It collided with the patrol car and hit the kerb, damaging both cars. The two accused got out and attempted to escape before being apprehended. Ward ran across the golf course, over a wall and across the main road into a field before being caught. Purcell also ran across the golf course but was caught on it. During a search of the Audi, which was the car which had been taken from Mrs. Ferman, a nail bar, wooden baton, and screw drivers were found. A total of ?9,095 worth of damage was caused to that car, while damage amounting to ?3,127 was caused to the patrol car. Damage of ?2,575 was caused to Ms Johnson’s car when it crashed into the jeep. Both men are members of the Traveller community. Dt Gda Geoghegan said that Ward, who was married with two children, had a long list of previous convictions. He said he regarded him as “a very dangerous and violent individual”. Judge Michael O’Shea said that he had no option but to impose custodial sentences on the two men. 
