cars
{  
    November 06 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/garda-car-in-130-mph-pursuit-of-roscrea-motorist-27468070.html }
A Garda told Roscrea Court of a high speed chase on the N7 of a motorist in which the squad car reached speeds of 125-130 mph outside Borris-in-Os   A Garda told Roscrea Court of a high speed chase on the N7 of a motorist in which the squad car reached speeds of 125-130 mph outside Borris-in-Ossory, in pursuit of the other car, a Toyota Avensis.This car was found crashed later at Kennedy Park. Paul Moloney, 98 Kennedy Park, Roscrea, was fined £500 and disqualified for one year with endorsement, and ordered to pay £75 Medical Bureau costs for driving with excess alcohol. He was fined £500 and disqualified for three years for dangerous driving at Ballytarsna, Borris-in-Ossory, and ordered to pay £52.76 witness expenses. He was given a six months sentence and disqualified for ten years for dangerous driving at Main St., Borris-in-Ossory. Garda Patrick Harrison, Traffic Corps, Portlaoise, told the court that he was operating a radar check at Ballytarsna at 7.30pm on April 26th. A motor car came from the Mountrath direction, and it was detected doing 123 mph. It overtook a number of cars. There were two occupants, and he noticed the driver was wearing an orange, tannish colour shirt. He turned to pursue it, and put on his flasher and siren. The car went through Borris-in-Ossory at very high speed, 60-70 mph, though traffic was very heavy. It went out the Roscrea road at high speed, witness was doing 125-130 but making no impact. Oncoming cars were flashing lights at the driver and were being forced into the hard shoulder. At the by-pass in Roscrea the car turned to the left, witness saw it go up the Templemore Road and followed it. Witness lost sight of him at Kennedy Park, drove into the estate but couldn’t find him. He drove around the estate and found the car crashed around the back . It had crashed into the back wall of a house. The occupants were gone. He met Angela Nolan, who, he said, was nearly hysterical. She said it was “the luck of God no child was killed”, and said “you know who was driving, he is getting away with it all the time”. A few seconds later two chaps approached the car, she said, “there they are now”. Witness noticed one chap had an orange shirt. The lady identified them, saying “I saw ye getting out of the car and ye ran.” Witness arrested Paul Moloney under section 53 for dangerous driving and brought him to Roscrea Garda station. Defendant did not admit driving the car, and when asked who was driving, said it was a knacker from Limerick McGinley, that he was test driving it. In the station witness got a strong smell of alcohol from defendant and formed the opinion that he was unfit to drive. A doctor was called, and defendant opted to provide a urine sample. The concentration was 136 per 100ccs. Witness asked defendant would give his shirt for forensic examination and told him there was no obligation to do so. He agreed to give it and also the trousers he was wearing. Witness took the air bag from the car and brought the items to the forensic laboratory. He said the car had been checked out at Donnybrook Garda Station, a lady had reported the driving of it at Kill, and another driver at Ballybrittas, but neither would make a statement. To defending solicitor, he did not agree that there were four people in the car. Asked how far behind he was, he said he got close at Borris-in-Ossory, but then defendant put the boot down. Garda Harrison said that the following Monday Mr Moloney arrived in Portlaoise with a gentleman who was very intoxicated, and said he was driving the car , “we were all locked”. The man,in his 50s, was very drunk , and said. “I was driving the car” Asked by the solicitor if he interviewed this man, Garda Harrison said he told him to get out of the station, that he knew the man was telling lies. Angela Nolan told the court that around 7.45 pm on April 26 she was in Kennedy Park, coming home from the shop. She was coming along the laneway, and heard a car coming. There was a child on a bike ahead. She put her hands up said, “.Oh God”. She heard a bang and wondered if her kids were safe. She went back down the lane and saw Paul Moloney and Mark Walsh running home. She did not see anyone else. To the solicitor, she said it was possible others were there. Ms Brigid Fleming, a scientist at the Forensic Laboratory, said she received an orange shirt and blue denim jeans from Garda Harrison, and also cut out fabric from airbag from the car. She examined the items to see if there was contact between the clothes and the airbag. She found yellow viscous polyester fibres on the shirt, and 16 yellow viscous fibres from the airbag matched the shirt. The findings suggested that Paul Moloney was in contact with the air bag. Paul Moloney told the court that on April 26th they were in Dublin. He had arranged to meet a man , Don McComeskey at The Heath to sell a car. They did a deal, and Mc Comeskey was to drop them home. He drove the car. There were four in the car witness was in the front passenger seat, Mark Walsh and Richard Moloney were in the back. They passed an unmarked squad car but stayed going. He told McComeskey to slow down, he said he had no insurance. Witness told him he was covered, but he stayed going. Witness was not driving. At Kennedy Park the car clipped a wall and skidded. He went to his house. He was not aware that the squad car was still following them, and he didn’t know what high speed they had been doing. He claimed both airbags exploded on impact , the air bag would go round the car, and this would explain the fibres. Don McComeskey, Clondalkin, said he was involved in the car business. He came to The Heath to do a deal with Mr Moloney, and he drove the car from The Heath to Roscrea, the chap selling the car was a front passenger. There were four in the car, and he accepted he drove at high speed. When he saw the Garda car he thought he was not insured, and kept going. Paul Moloney did not tell him he was insured. They skidded into a wall, he panicked and ran off up the lane. Some days later he went to Portlaoise, but the Garda would not listen to him. To Supt. Mulligan, he said he did not go on the night, because he had panicked. He went five or six days later of his own accord, and he was not intoxicated. Mark Walsh said he was with Paul Moloney. McComeskey, whom he did not know previously, drove them home. He didn’t know what speed they were doing but accepted it was fast. He wasn’t aware of the squad car, never saw it. The car skidded and they all ran out. Later he came back with Paul, he didn’t know where McComeskey went. Richard Moloney said he was in Dublin with his brother. He didn’t recall the squad car. He didn’t know how excessive the speed was, but they were travelling. They went in around the back of the houses and skidded into a wall. Judge Martin said she was convicting on all counts. Recognisances were fixed for appeal, in £1,000 and £1,000, defendant undertaking not to drive pending the appeal. 
