cars
{ Nick Webb 
    December 07 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/the-view-from-the-drivers-seat-26237680.html }
BESIDE all the shiny new Ford cars, there's a grubby LandRover in the  middle of the car park at Ford Ireland's Cork headquarters. "It's certainly not mine! I must  find out who owns it," exclaims Eddie Murphy, head of Ireland's largest car company.  About one in every nine new cars is a Ford. "We've led the market for about nine years, and we'll do it again this year," he add BESIDE all the shiny new Ford cars, there's a grubby LandRover in the middle of the car park at Ford Ireland's Cork headquarters. "It's certainly not mine! I must find out who owns it," exclaims Eddie Murphy, head of Ireland's largest car company. About one in every nine new cars is a Ford. "We've led the market for about nine years, and we'll do it again this year," he adds. The Irish motor industry has taken something of a hammering over the last three years, as the freak sales figures of 2000 simply could not be repeated: less funky number plates, economic slowdowns and penal tax systems put the brakes on the market. "Year on year, we're going to be down quite a bit. Our 2002 turnover at ?380m is down about five per cent, and our profitability is down about ?1m," he says, sitting behind a table in his 1980s-style office block just south of the River Lee. Accounts filed at the company's office last month show that pre-tax profits at Ford were ?2.18m in the year ending December 2002. The fall in profits is attributed to a drop in the number of cars sold, as well as to a series of one-off costs related to the extension of warranty agreements, according to Murphy. "The industry as a whole was down. Last year 156,000 units were sold, compared with 175,000 the year before. It has been coming down since the peak of 2000." He says that 2003 was a harder year, although Ford's market share and volume will have increased. "We certainly had too much stock, and the industry had too much stock, right from the word go," says the footie-mad Cork man. He's an Arsenal and Celtic fan, who devotes a fair chunk of his time to supporting UCC Soccer Club. Murphy expects Ford to shift more than 24,000 motors this year, which should give it about a 13 per cent market share split between cars and commercial vehicles. Toyota is only a whisker behind in terms of car sales. "There were only about 50 units between us and them last yearin terms of cars," he says. And no, he didn't spend last New Year's Eve buying up loads of new Fords in order to top the sales list. The Irish market has plenty of potential for growth, hebelieves. "Car ownership in Ireland is less than in most other countries," he says. Latest figures show that about 37 people out of every hundred own a car, compared with up to 60 per hundred in Germany and Britain. There's plenty of upside in that case. Growth will also be accelerated by the introduction of flashy new motors over the next couple of years. "We have new products that we're very upbeat about," he says. Ford has just launched its new Focus C-Max, which according to the blurb is a multi-purpose vehicle. This is a growth area, as the multi-purpose vehicle sector is only tracking at about four per cent of the whole Irish car market, some way behind European averages. The Focus C-Max will ply its trade against the likes of the Renault Scenic and Opel Zafira. "It's a segment we haven't been in before, and we're very upbeat about its potential," he adds. Murphy figures that Ford could sell between 1,500 and 2,000 of the cars next year. The Ford Mondeo, chariot of middle-management suits called Eamonn, is also getting a bit of a facelift and restyling. "At worst, it'll enable us to stand still, but hopefully it will enable us to grow a bit," he says. The top end of the market has far higher margins than the cheaper small cars, according to Murphy. The lucrative commercial vehicle sector - vans, to you and me - will also see the arrival of a shiny new version of the Transit. Apparently it comes in colours other than blue. There are also a few things on the way with a little bit more va-va-voom, so to speak. "We showed a sports coupe in the Frankfurt Motor Show recently, called the Visos. But it won't see the light of day until 2006 or 2007. It's a conceptvehicle. Most of the reaction after Frankfurt was veryfavourable. I don't want to say that it's a replacement for the Capri, but the press have bracketed it as that, in terms of what it would offer." The two-door sports car will have lots of cool features, including on-board cameras to help minimise blind spots, and a big, throaty engine. Ford will be hoping that the new, sporty car will do better than its Cougar and Probe, which failed to deliver expected global sales figures. With sales of about 145,000 cars and 31,000 vans, the Irish market is just a speck on the map of the pan-European industry, which will see about 17 million new cars and vans sell this year. Some 80 per cent of cars are sold in the "Big Five" countries (Britain, Germany, France, Italy and Spain). However, Ford Ireland is punching well above its weight, according to Murphy: "Ford Ireland is in eighth position, in terms of its volume, out of the 19 Ford companies in Europe." Apart from the "Big Five" territories, Ford Ireland trails the Belgian and Dutch operations, but performs more strongly than the likes of Poland and Austria. Ford Ireland is also bigger than its Swiss counterpart. They can beat us at football, but by jiminy we'll buy more Ford Fiestas. Despite the strong performance from Ireland, the suits at Ford HQ in Michigan have made a real dog's dinner of the company in recent years - although many of the executives have been culled as part of a restructuring which saw 35,000 job losses worldwide. "We've been in better shape, worldwide, but the company is still a major player. It's number two behind General Motors, although Toyota is pushing us hard. In 2001 we lost a shedload of money [$5.45bn!], last year we broke even, and this year we should make some money. Not enough, but some money." But a management shake-up which saw family member William Clay Ford Jr take over the hot seat, and a turnaround programme involving trimming costs and strengthening relationships with dealers and suppliers, have begun to make the company look less peaky. The company's forecast turnaround is to be fuelled by its expanding product range. Last year, Ford introduced more new cars than in any other year since it was founded by Henry Ford in Madison, Michigan, 100 years ago. About 100 new products will hit the US and European markets over the next five years, according to Murphy. While cars like the Focus and Fiesta are still going great guns, not all of Ford's offerings have been quite as successful. "I don't know if it ever came to Ireland, but Henry Ford had a son called Edsel and he named a car after him. It was a stinker. But to be honest, there are no bad cars in the industry any more," Murphy says. Bad cars or not, Charlie McCreevy continues to tax the bejaysus out of anything that moves. But there is a speck of good news for the put-upon driver, as Ford isn't planning to increase prices next year . . . by much. "If you were to ask me 12 or 15 months ago what the likely scenario was for pricing in Ireland, I would have said that there would be significant price increases," says Murphy, pointing to European moves to harmonise car prices across the the continent. "Ireland is a very low pricing region - pre-tax - and it would have pushed up prices significantly," he says, with a very straight face. However, the burgeoning strength of the euro and an increasingly competitive UK market have alleviated the threat of a major price increase somewhat. "Going forward, we're not looking at prices increasing in excess of inflation next year - or about 2.5 to 3 per cent." Murphy is at pains to point out that it is Charlie McCreevy, rather than the car manufacturers, that have made car prices so expensive in Ireland. Levies on a car can hit up to 73 per centof the total pre-tax price of the car, he says. He points out that VAT and VRT on a small car costing ?9,970 bring the final sale price up to ?15,566. It gets worse for bigger cars. Last week's budget made things even tougherfor the car owner, with McCreevy slapping even more taxes on petrol. Murphy and the Irish car industry are fighting a losing battle with the Revenue. They want taxes lowered to boost sales in the sector, which will in turn funnel cash into the Exchequer. But is it going to happen? Not on your nelly. Roll on Budget 2004. 
