cars
{ Clare Cullen, Patricia Murphy, Pól Ó Conghaile & Frank Whelan 
    December 30 2014 09:08 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/travel/ireland/uber-in-dublin-our-reviews-30847541.html }
What's it really like to ride with Uber's cars and taxis in Dublin? We took to the streets for a comprehensive review.  Last summer, I purchased a ticket to an event and with it came a promotional code to grab my first ride with Uber. After downloading the app and inserting my details, two of my friends and I hailed our first ride, hopping into a very slick car for a journey from Ringsend. We hadn’t requested an Uber Black, but one arrived - and it was a more than pleasant way to ferry ourselves across the city (sadly, the party didn’t have the same class factor). Of course, because it was complimentary, we didn’t take much notice of the fare. It would have cost us €19 were we to have paid for the 10-15 minute drive. This week, after a night out when the rain was pouring from the heavens, I once again delved into Uber Black. Soaked to the bone, I pinpointed where I was on the quays, and an Uber soon followed. Being collected in a swish car with a suited driver seemed to be the right way to fulfill any notions I have of myself, and I quite happily hopped into the back. Uber Blacks are highly luxurious and the drive is a real treat - that can't be argued. The question is whether the price is worth it for the mere 10 minutes we usually spend in a taxi. A quick drive from O’Connell Street to Ringsend cost me €17, and although I enjoyed it, I don’t think I got much out of the experience other than a brief few moments of feelling more comfortable than I usually would have done in a taxi with a pretty pleasant driver. The funny thing is, I could understand shelling out a lot of money for a long journey - perhaps to Kildare or even further down the country. But paying for an Uber Black to bring you a short distance seems to me a bit too extravagant. If you’re really trying to impress a date, give colleagues the impression that you’ve got that promotion or are just trying to fulfil those aforementioned notions... Uber Black might be for you. As for me, I think I’ll stick with Hailo. 
 
Close
 Pól Ó Conghaile / But how would this work in Ireland? Honestly, I was worried that the cars would be of variable quality, and I didn't know what to expect of the drivers. The sign-up was very straightforward. I entered my name and number, uploaded a profile picture, added my credit card details and bam - got a verification code within seconds. The whole process took less than a minute, and it looked slick all the way. I was disappointed with my first ride - an Uber X. I ordered it from Barrow Street, where there were many more cars available, including a glut of Hailo taxis just a minute away (the Uber took eight minutes to arrive). If I hadn't been testing the app, I probably wouldn't have bothered. The car was fine - a 2011 Skoda Superb in great condition. It was a taxi (as are all Uber X cars in Dublin), so the only real advantage to the wait was Uber's 10pc fare reduction. The driver told me he didn't get much work through the app, but felt it would catch on in the coming months. For my second ride, I splashed out on an Uber Black. It took longer than the suggested eight minutes to arrive (more like 12, according to my calculations), but the car was a treat - a Mercedes E Class with leather interiors. It was clean, comfortable, even luxurious. My driver was chatty, and he told me he was paid by the hour by the owner of two cars - he kept them on the road 24/7 with a team of seven drivers. He was full of praise for the service, aside from the moment when its GPS advised us to turn the wrong way up a one-way street. One of my favourite things about Uber is the facility to watch the cars' location in real time on the graphic map - it's strangely reassuring. For a date or special occasion, I'd definitely book an Uber Black, but for regular runs, I'll be sticking with taxis, public transport... and my own two feet. 
 
Close
 Uber in Dublin: Frank Whelan waits for his Uber to arrive on the streets of the capital.  / My plan was to test Uber during a daily commute, seeing how the service would fare with Dublin traffic. Uber had an issue recognising my address and though I entered it fully, I wasn't confident. When I pressed on the shortened address offered, the car was ordered without any confirmation request. There was no mention of Rathfarnham, so I tried to re-enter the address. The feedback was still lacking. At this point, fare estimation wasn't working. I had ordered without really being ready. The timer was slow to update, lingering on eight minutes, and the car arrived sooner than displayed. Outside the Independent.ie offices, I had no idea what car I was looking for (beyond grey and a model I’d never heard of). It took two phonecalls to figure out that he was up the road - an unremarkable taxi completely obscured by a large white van. Once in the car, we were in the lane to head further Northside. I had previous taxi drivers head to Rathfarnham via the extremely scenic route of Parnell St., so I was worried. "Was the address ok for you, I wasn't sure if it mentioned Rathfarnham?" "Rathfarnham?!" We changed lanes, and he thanked me for mentioning it, assuring me that there were plenty of ways to avoid the traffic. He went on to explain the unreliability of the Apple Maps used by Uber, but that's where his criticism of the app ended. During our surprisingly quick journey, he spoke of his preference for Uber over Hailo, mentioning the international reach, dedicated devices and increased functionality. He was especially keen on the possibility of fare sharing - a function yet to reach these shores. The taxi was spotless, its driver polite, and we managed the 40-minute journey for €20, the usual charge for my shorter taxi journey home on a night out. 
 
Close
 Clare Cullen booking an Uber in Dublin. Photo: Kyran O'Brien / My limited knowledge of the service stemmed from watching YouTube videos where American girls shared their bad experiences with drivers, coupled with news stories about the app being banned in countries across the world for various offences, including one rape by a driver. Obviously, this did not fill me with confidence. Of course, there were also stories about comments made by the Uber VP (which he thought were 'off the record' but Buzzfeed didn't agree) saying that the company should spend a few million dollars to "dig up dirt" on a journalist who had written a critical piece about the app. Having all the above as my only reference points, I would happily have gone my entire life without even thinking about downloading the app. I was very, very nervous ordering my first Uber. First of all, I had problems registering - I didn't want to use my debit card, but I didn't have a credit card. I had issues entering my card number - it wouldn't work until the third time for some reason. I was distrustful of putting my debit card into the app - could something happen my account? I eventually installed the app. My first thought? "The map looks cool". I then spent around five minutes 'oohing' and 'ahhing' over the moving cars on the map, which I excitedly declared to the office were "so CUTE!" Once Uber is up and running, you press 'Set Pickup Destination' and it pings the nearest car and gives you an ETA. Simple, right? In a word, no. I first planned to use Uber to head into the work Christmas party. You can't pre-book an Uber, which I found quite inconvenient. Instead of pre-ordering and timing myself to match (like I would normally do), I finished getting ready and attempted to order an Uber - only to get an error message. "No Uber X Cars available". I tried again in five, 10 and 15 minutes only to receive the same message. At this point I was already fashionably late and couldn't really afford to be hanging around, so I threw in the towel and asked my partner for a last-minute lift. So much for Uber in the suburbs! The next day I decided to do a bit of Christmas shopping on my lunch break, so I ordered an Uber. There was no problem getting one in the city centre and I - nervous about getting in the car with a complete stranger - ordered it to arrive at Busarás instead of my work. I quickly realised my error - I didn't have a photo on my profile and I wasn't sure which side of Busarás they were coming to. I ended up spotting the reg and chasing the car around two sides of Busarás until they saw me in their mirror. On the way back from shopping, I hung out in Starbucks until my car arrived. I felt very American - like an upper middle class wannabe. What was interesting was that both trips were in real taxis - not private cars, as I understood Uber to be about [Ed's Note: Uber offers both taxis and fully licensed luxury cars in Dublin]. The first taxi driver, in a 2010 Prius, told me that "private cars are not allowed" on Uber. "Only people who have done the test are allowed. It costs taxis a lot of money to get the licence and take the test - private people cannot do it". He told me that he gets much more business through Hailo. The second driver, in a 2011 Avensis, concurred - saying that Uber's customer base is still very small in Dublin. While my first driver thought that "Uber won't be here for long", the second driver said he no longer "hated" the app. "They changed - they're better now". The difference with Hailo is that it offers a cash option, there are way more taxis on it, and it allows the driver to calculate the fare on the meter. The first Uber driver told me that the fare was calculated on the app, but went with the meter reading. The second driver forgot to turn on the meter, so we agreed a price. It's very easy to spend money this way - it almost feels free. You don't even have to accept the price on the app, they just enter it and boom - it comes out of your account. Their user base is so small that you can forget getting an Uber unless you live in the city centre or busy areas. The cars are newer and nicer and it's very handy having a car pull up to your door, which you can do on Hailo too. Uber seems, to me, to be Hailo but with 10pc off, nicer cars and less payment options. I could get used to the hassle-free way of booking taxis but I think I'm going to go download Hailo and use that instead - at least I'm always guaranteed a ride. Online Editors 
