cars
{  
    June 11 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/exclusive-new-cars-26209227.html }
SLEEK, sophisticated and commanding, executive cars are in a class of their own. Maybe it is the leather upholstery that tickles your fancy, or the suave exterior, or the high-torque engine power that purrs as you cruise along the motorway. These cars are finely tuned to meet the every need of the business executive. Their clever designs and unbeatable comfort can turn even the most stressful of days into a tranquil experience. Never before has the choice been so immense on the executive car market. The cars, and indeed the finance packages that accompany them, mean that you get exactly what suits your needs. With such a range of executive motor dealers all over the country, you can shop around easily until that stylish dream car becomes a reality. First impressions always last and you will certainly be remembered in the stylish motors that feature on the executive car market this season. The question is, can you afford not to buy one? * BALLSBRIDGE Motors, on the Shelbourne Road, have been selling cars and commercial vehicles in Dublin since 1949. Initially specialising in Volkswagen, they have since expanded their portfolio to include the prestigious franchises of Audi and Mercedes-Benz. Today, they are the biggest Mercedes-Benz dealers in Dublin. Among the range of top-end luxury cars on offer is the Mercedes-Benz CLS 4 door coupe. One of the most exciting cars of 2005, this renowned sports car has already completely sold out until next year. Ballsbridge Motors have one of the finest car showrooms in Ireland accommodating over 20 new cars in a modern air-conditioned environment. With the relocation of their After Sales personnel to the MSL Service Centre located on Pottery Road, Cabinteely, they now have more space than ever to accommodate their growing customer base. Ballsbridge Motors, 162 Shelbourne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4. Phone: 01 665 6600  Fax: 01 665 6699 E-mail: www.ballsbridgemotors.ie * PART of the Annesley Motor Company Limited, Annesley Ballybough motors are main Volkswagen, Mercedes-Benz, Audi and Mazda dealers. They are situated on the Ballybough Road, Dublin 3. Founded in 1947 in a small premises at Annesley Place, they moved to Ballybough Road 44 years ago. Today they stock the full range of all the latest Volkswagen models including the sleek Bora and the Beetle Convertible. Annesley Ballybough are eagerly awaiting the arrival of the new Polo, Passat and Golf Plus models, which are being launched on June 18th. You can catch a sneak preview of these exciting models online at www.annesleymotors.ie Annesley Ballybough pride themselves on their efficient and friendly service personnel who are on hand to help with any questions or difficulties you may be experiencing or perhaps to book your car in for a service. Annesley Ballybough, Ballybough Road, Dublin 3.  Tel: 01 855 5991 Fax: 01 836 6956 * JOE Duffy Motors, situated on Exit 5 of the M50 is the number one for BMW sales in Ireland. In 2002 they celebrated 30 successful years in business, becoming the longest established BMW main dealer in the country. They specialise in quality new and used BMW cars, and offer a wide range of finance packages including hire purchase, contract hire, leasing and lease purchase to assist you in buying your latest vehicle. This year, they launched the new 7 Series, X3 Series, and their biggest seller, the 3 Series. Some luxury cars in the 3 Series include the 330Ci Clubsport Coupe, and the ultimate driving machine, the 330Ci Sport Convertible. With a host of new features including a new range of four-cylinder 'Valvetronic' and six-cylinder engines, the new BMW 3 Series Saloon is also hard to beat. Joe Duffy Motors are conveniently open for sales six days a week, Monday to Friday 8.30am - 6.30pm and Saturday 10am - 4pm. Joe Duffy Motors, Exit 5 M50, North Road, Dublin 11.  Phone: 01 864 7777  Fax: 01 834 6597 Website www.joeduffybmw.ie * MOTOR Services Limited (MSL) is a company within the O'Flaherty Holdings group of companies, and is Ireland's premier motor group. MSL operates nine retail and service garages, eight in Dublin and one in Cork, with main dealerships for Volkswagen and Mercedes-Benz (both passenger cars and commercial vehicles), Audi and Mazda. The company also has a separate division called MSL FleetManager, set up to offer a complete corporate motoring service to the fleet and business sector. Louis Colley is MSL's fleet and business manager, based in their headquarters on the Naas Road. MSL FleetManager offers an excellent service to the corporate customer, including a fabulous choice from the full range of the world's leading cars, a service that is both personal - one person, one point of contact - and comprehensive, incorporating an excellent finance, sales and after sales service. Each MSL garage operates under its own trade name. These are Ballsbridge Motors, Grange Motors, Park Motors, Smart of Blackrock, Europa Mazda Centre, Europa Van Centre, MSL Service Centre, Park Motors Service Centre, Turners Cross Motors. Motor Services Limited, Naas Road, Dublin. Phone (01) 409 4478. * CAPITAL Cars, Tullamore, the BMW Centre of Ireland, have reported a massive increase in pre-owned BMW Sales in 2004 and 2005. This is due to the introduction of the BMW Approved Used Car Scheme. Mark Cunningham, MD of the family owned business is delighted with the results. "Since introducing the BMW Approved Used Car scheme we have seen our levels of approved used BMW Sales rocket," says Mark. "It's all down to the preparation of the cars. When a car is bought or traded in, the workshop technicians are ready to examine it and put the car through a process of 120 individual checks." Because of this, their Approved Used Cars are left like new, leaving customers delighted with the quality of the cars which they can buy at a very affordable price. Capital Cars, Tullamore are known for the personal, friendly and professional way they conduct their business as one of the country's leading prestige dealers. Capital Cars BMW, Tullamore.  Phone: 0506 41977 Website: www.capitalcarsbmw.ie * IRELAND's number one independent Mercedes-Benz dealer, Annesley Williams Ltd is conveniently located on the old airport road in Dublin. The business, which is family run, has been in existence for over 25 years and boasts vast experience in selling executive vehicles. The Mercedes brand is enjoying fantastic sales at Annesley Williams at the moment with the stylish C Class and E Class models proving very popular. This year has seen the launch of the all new A class range and the CLS range, while the beginning of next year will see the arrival of the totally new B Class range as well as the new S Class and M Class models. They offer expert advice backed by a courteous and friendly approach that is the hallmark of the Annesley Williams car sales operation. It is little wonder that the order books are already filling up for next year. Annesley Williams Ltd.,  Old Airport Road, Clogran, Co. Dublin  Phone: 01 842 8855  Fax: 01 842 8918 Website: www.annesleywilliams.ie * THE newly opened showrooms of Sheehy Motors on the Newbridge Road in Naas have a fantastic display of all the latest Volkswagen and Audi models, including the much coveted Audi A3. With the success of Audi in the market, Sheehy Motors are offering customers personal contracts at very keen rates. More and more business users are turning to the reliability and sophistication of the Audi brand. Sheehy Motors believe emphasis should not be put on the price of a vehicle, but more on the cost of ownership. So if it is one of the latest Volkswagen models that catches your eye, or the Audi A4, then Sheehy Motors will be happy to discuss all your financial options. At the moment they have a special tailored package on offer with the luxurious Audi A3. For more information on this offer you can contact Jackie Stafford or Michael Acheson on 045-906 666. Sheehy Motors, Jigginstown, Naas Co Kildare.  Phone: 045 906 666 Website: www.sheehymotors.ie * J DONOHOE & Sons can offer you the ultimate road trip in the ultimate driving machine, the BMW. Selling a vast range of new and used models, J Donohoe & Sons confidently rely on the BMW Approved Used Car Warranty Developed. This has been developed specifically for customer's peace of mind, covering your car for a minimum of 12 months. You can also opt to extend the warranty for an additional two years from the date of purchase. J Donohoe & Sons also believe that the BMW Preparation Charter is your assurance that a BMW Approved Used Car has been closely examined and prepared by BMW technicians before one takes delivery. A full vehicle preparation includes a detailed check of every aspect of the car by skilled technicians. Why not take a look at their range of BMW Approved Used Cars at J. Donohoe, Hempfield, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford and plan your next trip in the ultimate driving machine? J Donohoe & Sons, Hempfield, Enniscorthy.  Phone: 054 42440 Website: www.jdonohoebmw.ie * KENILWORTH Motors in Harolds' Cross is one of Ireland's largest and longest established Opel dealers, supplying all Opel models and a wide variety of quality used vehicles. Their stock includes the Agila, Astra, Tigra, Zafira and Meriva models. Finance packages are available whatever your needs as a private or as a business user. Kenilworth Motors will gladly tailor the best option to suit your requirements. Kenilworth Motors have invested in the latest diagnostic technology and have highly skilled and expertly trained technicians to ensure that your car continues to operate in an efficient and comfortable manner. You can experience one of the latest models for yourself. Why not arrange a test drive in the all new Opel Astra today? Kenilworth Motors, 348 Harold's Cross Road, Dublin 6.  Phone: 01 492 3757  Fax: 01 492 2241  Website: www.kenilworthmotors.ie 
