cars
{  
    November 17 2019 06:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/article38696740.ece }
Ireland's new car sales have continued to disappoint this year and are down 7pc on 2018 and over 20pc since 2016. The impact of Brexit and sterling's weakness continues to drive used car imports, up 100pc in the past three years, which is impacting negatively on the new car market. The long-term implications for Ireland of the proposed Brexit deal are still unclear and economist Jim Power predicts that even if a hard Brexit is avoided, new car sales could decline next year by 6pc to 109,860. In the event of a hard Brexit, the impact on confidence could push new car sales below 90,000.  The nitrogen oxide (Nox) emissions-based charge introduced in last month's Budget has been a welcome one and is expected to reduce the number of used imports next year by up to 20,000. To date, 150,000 cars that do not meet the latest EU emission standards have been imported in the past three years. The introduction in last year's Budget of the 1pc surcharge on all diesel vehicles inadvertently made imported diesel cars more attractive, as it was a charge on the total value of a car. The impact, therefore, on a €20,000 imported diesel was much less than on a €40,000 new diesel. By replacing this with a euro surcharge per mg/km NOx in Budget 2020, older diesel cars will be significantly impacted - imported older diesel cars, in particular.  Fears of a harsh Budget may have passed but consumers remain confused and uncertain about their best options. A decade ago the Government pushed diesel for its fuel efficiency and environmental credentials. Those driving petrol and diesel cars today are acutely aware of the fact that they may be financially punished in the future.  This also is why those opting for new cars, but perhaps not in a position to go electric, are worried about future trade-in values.  Declining business confidence is also affecting demand in the new car market and the decision to end the €3,800 grant for businesses purchasing electric cars or plug-in hybrids in the Budget has only added to the uncertainty around current fleet planning. Many in the motoring business have questioned the thinking behind the decision. Paddy Magee, country operations manager of Renault Group Ireland, says: "Manufacturers and dealers cannot plan their business on a year-to-year approach and the removal of the grant for company buyers this year proved it is impossible to plan in our industry. All of this is in our interest but consumers are confused and we need to give them a plan that is fixed from now until 2025 first, with consistency and no changes." Sales of electric cars have almost trebled this year compared with last year and 3,222 new EVs have been registered so far in 2019. However, the numbers are still small compared with overall sales, and new EV registrations account for only 2.77pc of the overall new car market in 2019. This is a long way from the Government's Climate Action Plan target of having almost one million electric vehicles by 2030.  Simi Deputy Director General, Tom Cullen, warns that there are a number of factors, including the supply of cars to Ireland, that could derail the Government's grand vision. "We do not manufacture cars so we rely on supply from Europe and with greater demand from other countries also this can increase the wait times and affect the supply to the market. Ireland's cars are right-hand drive and with Britain leaving the EU we do not know how this will affect the supply chain either, with the majority of EU countries using left-hand drive cars."  The Government's plan has not only been criticised for how realistic the strategy is, but also as it represents a single focus on battery electric cars instead of considering alternative fuels. Dr James Carton of DCU and Hydrogen Mobility Ireland believes hydrogen is viable for transport as it is the only option that has zero emissions with the range and refill times equivalent to what customers expect.  "The Government should provide monetary support for a set period of time for renewable hydrogen in their revised Biofuels Obligation Scheme so it may compete with fossil fuels. Beyond a physical monetary value requested, a support scheme allows Irish businesses to develop knowledge, intellectual property and early hydrogen deployment projects across the country, overcoming economic and social barriers so that, by 2030, Ireland is positioned to achieve the targets set in transport and with hydrogen in the mix, well on the way to achieving our energy system decarbonisation goals," said Dr Carton.  There is no denying that the Government's pledge to reduce CO2 emissions will mean curtailing our reliance on fossil fuels and ensuring the mass-market adoption of alternative fuel vehicles. But the tipping point for electric cars is likely to be from 2023 onward, when the cost of buying an electric vehicle is expected to be on par with that of a petrol or diesel car. In the meantime, the removal of older, dirtier cars is an effective way of addressing air quality concerns while reducing CO2 emissions.  The average age of a car on Irish roads is nine years old and many car owners cannot afford to upgrade their cars, so punishing drivers of older cars is not the solution. The Government needs to act urgently as the negative impact on emissions and air quality is only going to worsen.  Currently, the Government is simply relying on policies aimed solely at influencing the sale and purchase of a relatively limited number of new electric cars. Sunday Independent 
