cars
{  
    April 02 2009 08:25 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/car-deal-crashes-into-court-battle-27069106.html }
A WOMAN who told Judge Michael Pattwell that she was promised a warranty for her 1999 Fiat cinquecento and, when it gave trouble "from the word go", claimed the man who sold her the car told her "she was too fat to drive the car" has been awarded €558.99 in court. Michelle O'Donoghue of 33 The Brambles, Quartertown, Mallow sought €1,450 for the cost of the car and repairs which she purchased from mechanic Ger Cairns of 2 Cylda Court, Quartertown, Mallow. The application was made through the small claims court and Ms O'Donoghue opted to represent herself. She said she purchased the car for €1,000 in April 2008 but, as she couldn't test drive the car herself at the time, as she didn't know how to drive, she asked her Romanian brother-in-law to test drive it for her. She said she paid two instalments of €500 and had to "wait until he sorted out the NCT". She gave Judge Pattwell a number of receipts which, she said, were for repairs carried out as well as estimated repairs, not carried out. She said she phoned and texted Mr Cairns and claimed he had said to her: "I was too fat to drive the car and said I weighted over 30 stone as well as saying other obscenities to me. I did not get value for money as the car was parked outside my house," she said. Solicitor Mr Cathal Lombard, for Mr Cairns, said the car was meant for his client's daughter but she didn't like the colour of it, and it was Ms O'Donoghue who approached Mr Cairns with a view to buying the car. Mr Lombard also put it to Ms O'Donoghue that she had told his client that two Polish men, whom she had given her car to, had crashed it. "There never was a warranty given with that car from the word go," said Mr Lombard. Ms O'Donoghue refuted same and said there was a "verbal warranty," and "at no point did he (Mr Cairns) say it was a private sale." Ms O'Donoghue's Romanian brother-in-law said Mr Cairns had said if there was a problem with the car to bring it back. "It broke down and I pushed the car and there was sweat pumping through me as I had to push it," he said. The car had a mileage of 82,000 when she bought it and she said she only drove it for 1,000 miles. "I couldn't drive in the rain as it would cost another €282 as there was a big hole where the wiper comes out of the car," she said. "The gear box was also stiff and I just lost confidence in the car," she said. Mr Cairns said Ms O'Donoghue contacted his daughter about the car and then approached him about buying it. He said she gave a €500 deposit and he got an NCT for the car. "There was no warranty and no guarantee whatsoever. She left the other €500 and said she was very happy with the car," he said. He said the car had failed the NCT and he repaired the specifics as outlined with the headlamp, wiper and the front crack in the bumper. He said the fan belt was also squealing. "I told her to leave the car with me and I'd fix up the fan belt but she said no. I don't know why she is telling lies, she told me herself about two Polish men crashing the car," he said. "If there were a number of problems with the car then why did it pass the NCT," said Mr Cairns. "Pieces in cars do not give notice that they will break," said the judge. Mr Cairns said Ms O'Donoghue phoned him one night at 11pm about the car and then again the next morning at 9am. When asked by Mr Lombard about the obscenities he had allegedly passed to Ms O'Donoghue, Mr Cairns said: "I never said she was 30 stone. I said 'you were a big girl to drive a small car'." The judge told him that he was not here to punish him on his bad manners. Mr Cairn's mother told the judge she was with her son and he had never said to bring the car back if there was any trouble with it. She also said she had heard Ms O'Donoghue say that she had given her car away and it had been crashed. However, Ms O'Donoghue, in her cross examination, said Mrs Cairns was not present as she was "suffering with gallstones" at the time, in hospital. After listening to and reviewing the lengthy submissions, Judge Pattwell said that he could recall buying his own first car and it was a time when a person had to pay extra to even get a heater. "It's a very foolish person who goes to a back street motor trader without taking a car for a test drive. She brought her brother-in-law to do the test drive," he said. The car, he said, was nine years old when purchased and now it was 10 years old. However, the judge said that she had used the car to learn how to drive; therefore, it would "not be the same car" and it would be unfair to make the seller take it back. However, he did award her €558.99. 
