cars
{ Charlie Weston 
    November 21 2018 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/what-to-look-out-for-if-you-are-financing-your-new-car-37548621.html }
If you are considering buying a car it is hard to avoid personal contract plans. One in three car finance deals are now done through personal contract plans or PCPs. It is not just new cars. Increasingly, PCPs are being used to finance second-hand purchases. But financial experts remind us there are plenty of other options they should consider. The problem with PCPs is that they are "complex financial products" and poorly understood, according to recent research from the State-funded think tank, the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI). It asked consumers if they knew how the car finance plans operated. It found in many cases the answers were "no better than chance". Some €1.5bn is owed in PCP finance to garages funded by banks, according to Central Bank research. The average deal is estimated at around €23,000. PCPs are popular because the interest rates are low and monthly repayments are manageable. But a key aspect is the need for the car to retain its agreed value at the end of the three or five-year term. A surge in cheap imports from the UK means many PCP deals may bomb out. Also, the sheer volume of PCP deals means there will be huge numbers of cars on the market when it is time to take out a new deal. You probably already know how PCPs work but, just to recap: you pay a deposit, which is typically between 10pc and 30pc of the value of the new car. You then make monthly payments, usually for three years. At the outset you agree the number of kilometres you are going to clock up over the period of the agreement. If you keep to this, the car will have a pre-agreed value at the end of the deal, known as the minimum guaranteed value. All things being equal, that's the least it will be valued at. At the end of the three years you can buy the car outright for the guaranteed value, hand back the keys and walk away, or exchange for a new model. You finance this with a new PCP deal. But if you want to own the car at the end of the deal then a final balloon payment, of up to 30pc of the price, will have to be made. The ESRI study showed "few people" realised the impact of this and it is probably the reason most customers opt to "roll over" the loan to start all over. All PCP plans have in-built restrictions on mileage, so you'll be limited to 15,000km/20,000km a year, along with no-damage policies and servicing requirements. Remember, you do not own the car unless you buy it outright at the end of the agreed term. The small print includes the following: * High mileage could mean a lower minimum guaranteed value. *A lot of wear and tear may mean you do not get the full value agreed at the start. * If you have a crash and the cost of the repairs is greater than 66pc of the original list price you may also not get the minimum value. * Because a lot of the repayments are deferred, the interest costs may be low initially, but the total ends up being high over the full length of the agreement. * Dealers and car company banks are able to offer lower interests rates because they retain ownership of the vehicle. If your PCP goes into arrears the bank is entitled to take back the car. The lender may attempt to enforce a voluntary surrender agreement. This is where the consumer returns the car but still retains the debt. However, under the Consumer Credit Act 1995, you have the right to end a PCP agreement, return the car and owe nothing further if you have already paid more than half of the total bill (the car's value plus interest due). Even if you haven't paid half, you can do so and end the agreement. This protects consumers. Credit unions were traditionally where people went to for car finance. And they have plenty of money available now as most of them are under-lent. Their rates are competitive. Car loan rates are often lower than others, with some charging as little as 5pc. The big advantage with a credit union is that you own the vehicle, rather than leasing it, or effectively renting it as you do through a PCP deal. Car buyers don't always realise that the car finance they are offered in sales rooms is a hire purchase agreement. This was traditionally a forecourt favourite. The key difference between hire purchase and a personal loan is that by buying a car with a personal loan you own it as soon as you pay for it. With a hire purchase agreement, you do not own it until you pay off every last cent on the HP deal. Banks are also back trying to tempt us to take out car loans. Take a loan for €10,000 to be paid back over three years. AIB offers interest rates of 8.95pc, with monthly repayments of €316. The total cost of credit works out at €1,309, according to the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission. A new player in the loans market is AvantCard, which used to be called MBNA. The Leitrim-based group has a strategy which would reward customers who had a better credit profile with lower rates, while opening the door to those who found themselves declined by other lenders. It is offering loans with annual percentage rates (APRs) from 7.5pc for customers with strong credit ratings to 13.9pc for higher-risk clients. If you are buying a second-hand car it is worth checking if there is any money still owed on it. If someone who buys a car using hire purchase has not paid off all the money owned under the deal they will not own the car. If the terms of the deal have been breached without the agreement of the provider then the person who has the car may not be entitled to sell it. An unsuspecting buyer of such a car could find the car is repossessed by the finance company. It may be worth your while paying a fee to the likes of Cartell.ie to check if financing is still outstanding. Car buyers will also be alerted if the checked vehicle has been previously written-off by an insurance company. Indo Motoring 
