food reviews
{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  13:51, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8016209/Social-media-star-Saffron-Barker-says-making-YouTube-videos-absolutely-real-job.html }
Social media star Saffron Barker says making YouTube videos is 'absolutely' her real job and insisted her occupation is 'definitely sustainable'.  The YouTuber, 19, from Brighton, appeared on This Morning alongside fellow social media sensations Jack Maynard, 25, Brighton, and Laura Edwards, from London, today, where she opened up about her career creating online content.  The lifestyle vlogger, whose videos range from make-up to food reviews, insisted that her social media job as 'opened so many doors', citing her appearance on the latest season of Strictly Come Dancing alongside AJ Pritchard.  The vlogger, who has an estimated net worth of over £800,000, told how she works 'all day every day' creating content and 'never knew' her hobby could be a full-time job when she started four years ago.  When asked by host Ruth Langsford if she would describe creating content as her 'job', Saffron said: 'Oh absolutely. 'I work all day, everyday. Whether it be creating content or doing other things as well. I think the great thing with social media is it can lead to so may other opportunities, like Strictly.  'It's cool because I'm doing YouTube, but I'm also doing mainstream media, so it's great. A lot of people ask, "is it sustainable?"  And I think definitely, because it opens so many doors.'   Saffron explained that she had no idea her following would increase so much when she started her vlogging four years ago while in high school.  She said: 'I started this four years ago, when I started I was actually in high school and when I started I never knew it could be a real job.   'It was a hobby, I loved doing it, I loved creating content creating videos and I've always wanted to entertain other people in some way.  'I have a passion for YouTube so kept on doing it and I'm still there now.'   Meanwhile Jack, who makes spoof online videos and is the brother of pop star Conor Maynard, was then asked by Ruth, 59, whether his job 'makes a lots of money'.  He replied: 'It get's me by, it's my full time job.'  Explaining how she comes up with ideas for her hugely-popular videos, Saffron added: 'There are certain things that trend, but a lot of the content I create are things I do in day to day life.  'It might be something really random, but it's so random you click on it and want to watch it.'  Laura, who creates humorous videos on Tik Tok and uses the moniker 'Laura Bubble', explained that she too fell into her social media stardom, after uploading old YouTube videos to the app.  She said: 'It started off as an app called musically, for lip syncing, but I do comedy sketches on there.  'Sort of by accident really, I put all my old YouTube videos on to Tik Tok and over the last three years it's kind of taken off.'   Hosts Ruth and Eamonn Holmes, 60, then inquired as to what Tik Tok video was, leading Saffron to explain it's a 15-30 second clip containing content created by the user.   Ruth said: 'Well,  we have 30 seconds left so can we do one of these Tik Toks?'   Laura and Saffron then started dancing with the hosts to 'I Saw The Sign' made popular in 2012 comedy film Pitch Perfect, while Jack filmed the group and transformed it into a Tik Tok video.  
