{ By James Wood For Mailonline   Published:  09:06, 27 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7829733/Appalled-guests-walk-luxury-five-star-hotel-disastrous-Christmas-Day-meal.html }
A furious guest was cheered as he started a walkout from an £85-a-head hotel for its 'catastrophic' Christmas Day lunch where guests were served 'cold and dry' food hours after arriving.  Around 160 people had been booked in for lunch at Lochgreen House Hotel and Spa in Troon, Ayrshire, Scotland earlier this week at a cost of £85 a head.  But despite the hefty price tag, many of the guests were left sorely disappointed with their meal complaining of staff walking about like 'headless chickens' and starters arriving two hours late that were 'cold, bland and burnt'.   Disgruntled customers have left a series of grievances on TripAdvisor, and revealed that around six tables walked out after arriving at the luxury venue's function suite.  Get in touch by emailing james.wood@mailonline.co.uk or call 0203 615 2574  In a desperate bid to stop customers walking out, the hotel manager is seen on video - released to MailOnline by a guest - trying to appease those angered by the experience. He says: 'I'm not saying I'm going to save it for everybody or for anybody. All I'm saying is, please allow me and my team to get your meals out as soon as we can and effectively as we can.  'And my aim in the meantime is to make that meal as boozy as I can. I'm the Santa of Prosecco from now until the end of the night. If you need anything drinks-wise come to me and I'll sort you out.'  But his comments do little to suppress the rage of some as one angry diner shouts 'I'm leaving' before storming out.  The five-star hotel, which has generally favourable reviews, has been littered with a series of one star postings following the 'disaster' meal.  One reviewer said: 'As one of the many people unfortunate enough to witness the catastrophic 2pm lunch saga, I won't repeat what has already said by many others. 'But I will say that yes the writing was on the wall within ten minutes of arriving and deteriorated at an unrelenting pace!' They added: 'While many commented on the indifference from staff, I have to say that those we dealt with were traumatised but apologetic - they were sent like lambs to the slaughter.' Another said: 'A room of 160 people crammed to capacity like a works canteen. No music, waited 80 minutes for a starter which was inedible and not of a fine dining standard.  'We decided after the starter to leave as it was only going to get worse. People were helping themselves to jugs of water, we had to get a corkscrew to open our wine. People were walking out and complaining everywhere you looked.  'We've eaten at the Lochgreen on previous occasions and stayed at the hotel, we had an amazing lunch last Christmas Day but we will never return.'  While another, Sarah P, added: 'I have been a loyal and long serving customer of Lochgreen - having had several christenings, family events, a wedding and multiple Sunday lunches there. 'Christmas lunch (2pm serving) was a complete and utter disaster! There are no words and if I could offer no stars I would.' She added: 'The staff- where all walking about like headless chickens, no idea what was going on.  'The tall male manager walking about with antlers on looked as if he has given up and soon as we walked through the door, he was as useless as a chocolate teapot.'  A fourth wished they'd stayed at home. They posted: 'I was very disappointed in the food today. I could have made a better turkey dinner at home, this will be last time for us. 'Such a shame, especially at £85 quid per head.' And another said: 'I have never experienced such incompetence and general mismanagement married with cavalier indifference all directed to patrons who had spent their hard cash to treat their families to a luxury Christmas meal.  'The catalogue of basic errors in hospitality management and delivery is lengthy and woeful.' Mr Costley, the chairman of the company which runs the hotel, said there were some problems with the food and has apologised.  He told the Daily Record: 'On Christmas Day with regard to our Garden Suite Restaurant a decision was made to change the format of the service but unfortunately this did not work. 'A member of staff had changed the table plan for that room and had not entered the details in the system causing confusion. 'I am profusely sorry to everyone who dined with us and whilst this was a management error I of course take full responsibility for what happened. 'I feel very embarrassed and deeply hurt, however people who know the Company and are regular guests and friends know that everyone endeavours to do their best. 'I can state categorically that this type of service will not be repeated in the future at Lochgreen. 'All reservations for the Garden Suite Restaurant have been contacted today by my PA and full refunds have been given.' Despite the barrage of one star reviews, the hotel still has 4.5 rating on TripAdvisor and has been reviewed well elsewhere. On Google it has an average of 4.6 from 361 reviews.  *Were you at the meal? Get in touch by emailing james.wood@mailonline.co.uk or call 0203 615 2574*  
