food reviews
{ By Jack Elsom For Mailonline   Published:  09:51, 27 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7829759/Movie-stars-turned-backs-early-critical-success.html }
Analysis of the careers of some of Hollywood's best loved stars reveals how many go from critically acclaimed early success to settling for big money paydays in flopped films - a phenomenon known as 'doing a Pacino'.   Film industry data researcher Stephen Follows has compiled actors' movie reviews over time to show who has climbed in the critics' rankings and who has spiralled. The research was inspired by Al Pacino, who shot to superstardom in the 1972 masterpiece, The Godfather, but who since has appeared in poorly received films. In an interview in November, Pacino confessed his early successes allow him to earn big pay cheques for movies he knows are going to be 'lemons'.  The 79-year-old film legend, who has scooped an Oscar and two Tony awards, now finds himself on a list of actors whose reviews have consistently spiraled over their careers. Whereas Angelina Jolie bucked the trend by shaking off negative reviews from Lara Croft: Tomb Raider to steadily rack up roles in more well-received movies. By taking the average review rating of 275 actors' collection of movies, Mr Follows has been able to calculate a single score reflecting the trend across their career.  This score - known as a Pearson coefficient - ranges from -1 as the worst and 1 as the best.  A scattergraph of Pacino's movies lays bare his downward slide since the 1972 classic, when he was awarded a perfect metascore of 100 - his Pearson score is -0.48. Robert De Niro, Orlando Bloom and James McAvoy have all also slipped from their once lofty film review heights, according to analysis by industry data researcher Stephen Follows.     The actor with the worst score is Australian Eric Bana, who starred in the critically acclaimed Chopper in 2000 and his since slumped to a recent role as Uther Pendragon in the poorly received King Arthur: Legend of the Sword - his score is -0.68. Bana is closely followed by Pacino's co-star Robert De Niro, who also had his movie review heyday in the 1970s in films such as the Godfather and Taxi Driver.  Yet Dirty Grandpa, which he starred in 2016, was a massive flop and dragged his score down. However, both Pacino and De Niro have been buoyed by their recent collaboration in the Irishman which has a review metascore of 94.  Another big name on the list is Orlando Bloom, who found early success in Lord Of The Rings before being propelled into the Hollywood stratosphere for his leading role in Pirates Of The Caribbean - yet his Pearson score is now -0.6. Both Daniel Radcliffe and Emma Watson, who made their names in the incredibly popular Harry Potter movies as children, are both also named and score -0.45 and 0.53 respectively.  Many big-screen titans do, however, buck the trend and manage to shake off pitiful reviews at the start of their career to land roles in box office blockbusters as their acting progresses. Angelina Jolie, who broke through in the overwhelmingly negative reviewed Lara Croft: Tomb Raider went on to star in the 2017 thriller First They Killed My Father - her score is positive, 0.55. She is followed by a string of names currently dominating the Hollywood scene, such as Star Trek's Chris Pine, The Revenant's Leonardo DiCaprio and Captain America's Chris Evans. Great Gatsby actress Carey Mulligan also featured with a positive score of 0.32.  
