food reviews
{ By Corinna Burton For Mailonline   Published:  09:50, 18 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7802381/This-weighted-therapy-blanket-anxiety-stress-insomnia-reduced-Amazon.html }
'Prior to buying this, I was struggling with my sleep for last couple of years and waking up many times throughout night but all this changed once the blanket arrived. Since then, I've slept all night and not woke once.'  So writes one Amazon reviewer about the Jaymag Weighted Blanket. It's one of the many five-star reviews the highly recommended weighted therapy blanket has received. The reviewer continues: 'I have a sleep tracker on my iWatch and the improvement in deep sleep is unbelievable. Should be called dream blanket.  'You feel so warm and cuddled. Blanket is well made and I wished I bought it along time ago as I was waking up shattered now I've all my energy back and feel better.' According to almost 200 five-star reviews like this one, the blanket has helped many people relax, relieve their stress and anxiety symptoms and improve their sleep quality. The Jaymag Weighted Blanket now has 36 per cent off its listing price, down from £79.99 to £51.29. It would make a really innovate and unique Christmas gift for your family members and friends. The 6.8kg sensory calming blanket is made with soft and breathable 100 per cent premium cotton material and filled with food-grade non-toxic pure glass beads.  The blanket imitates deep pressure touch stimulation. It helps to release negative feelings without using external drugs and medication, improves your mood and promotes sleeping quality. The safe and and non-drug therapy, anti-anxiety blanket is designed to bring you calming comfort, almost like a nice firm hug. One shopper wrote in their review: 'Probably the best purchase I've ever made. I bought this for my grandson who has high functioning autism, hyper mobility, adhd along with many other health conditions. I was delivered a miracle in a bag.  'Instantly calmed him and sent him to sleep after 15 minutes tonight. Previously taken 4-5 hours to get him to sleep. I can't recommend enough.' The Jaymag stress-relieving weighted blanket is available in two different sizes and weights, including: 122x183cm - 6.8kg (15lb), now £51.29 (saving you 36 per cent) and 152x203cm - 9kg (20lb) now £60.79 (saving you 32 per cent). Amazon Music Unlimited 3 months FREE (new members only) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream three months of Amazon Music Unlimited for free in celebration of the Brit Awards (that's a saving of £19.98).  You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only for customers who are new to Amazon Music Unlimited. Offer valid till February 23 2020. View offer Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.  
