food reviews
{ By Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  15:22, 17 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7801607/Star-Wars-Rise-Skywalker-receives-RAVE-reactions-critics.html }
It's the final film in the Skywalker saga that concludes the nine-film epic space opera. And critics were full of praise for Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker as they revealed their initial reactions to seeing the film at the Los Angeles premiere on Monday night. While Disney has embargoed full reviews until Wednesday, those inside the three cinemas screening the film were so delighted they took to Twitter to give their spoiler-free thoughts on the film on Tuesday.   Calling the J.J. Abrams-directed film an 'immensely satisfying', many critics claimed it was a 'fitting end' to the franchise. SlashFilm's Peter Scrietta gushed that 'JJ Abrams nailed it, as he added: 'He was able to bring a cohesive arc to this trilogy that feels like a fitting end to the saga as a whole. I'm so emotionally drained. Star Wars fans will be very happy.' While SYFY Wire's Jenna Busch added: 'OH MY GOD! I am absolutely blown away! I've never been so satisfied by a film.  'This is the end of an era and a franchise that has defined my life and this did it justice in a way I didn't imagine it could. You WILL cry....' Geek Bomb's Maude Garrett added: 'I realized within the first 20 mins of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker that it was the best film in this trilogy, and it kept getting better right through to the end. THANK YOU!!! #Maytheforcebewithyou.'  Screen Rant's Rob Keyes claimed the film managed to address 'issues, problematic characters, and most unanswered questions' that is 'immensely satisfying' The Economist's Gady Epstein went on to say it was a 'moving conclusion to the trio of trilogies.' Jake Hamilton, of Fox 23 News, revealed that he 'worship[s] this movie' because it's 'dark and scary, but hopeful and beautiful.'  Erik Davis, managing editor of Fandango movie website, felt it was 'epic. All of it' and was a 'wonderful way to end the Skywalker story.' The Hollywood Reporter's Ryan Parker also said the film was 'amazing' and claimed that 'The Last Jedi haters will be very pleased.'  But it wasn't all good, as some critics were left disappointed by the film with Uproxx's Mike Ryan claimed the film is 'the most convoluted Star Wars' film ever. 'There is a lot I liked, but the first half gets so bogged down with exposition and new plot and doodads and beacons and transmitters, it feels like it should have been three movies on its own,' he concluded. While CinemaBlend's Eric Eisenberg admitted that he felt 'bummed' out by the film as 'there is more that is disappointing' and 'number of choices that just don't track, fan service that doesn't work, and ignored details that are missed.'  Plot details have been kept tightly under wraps. But director JJ Abrams has said the Rey, Finn and Poe will unite on-screen, after being scattering at the conclusion of The Force Awakens and in The Last Jedi.  The Rise Of Skywalker is the franchise's fifth film in five years, and Disney has promised to apply the brakes to avoid fatigue. The company's release schedule has untitled Star Wars films listed for 2022, 2024 and 2026, and a director is yet to be revealed after Game Of Thrones' D.B. Weiss and David Benioff left the project. Of the films, Disney CEO Bob Iger claimed: 'We're in no rush. We know that fans will want another film, or another few films, and we'll make them.' Until then, fans can make do with Disney+ television series The Mandalorian, and two further series featuring Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor) and a Rogue One spin-off based around Cassian Andor (Diego Luna) and K2SO (Alan Tudyk). Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker is set to be released on December 19 in the UK, and on December 20 in the US.  
