food reviews
{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  17:10, 16 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-7789325/OpenTable-names-diners-favourite-restaurants-2019-Core-Clare-Symth-takes-spot.html }
OpenTable have named their top restaurants based on customer reviews this year - and London eateries have taken nine of the top 10 slots.  CORE by Clare Smyth, in upmarket Notting Hill, took the number one spot, followed by The Ledbury, which is just a stone's throw away.  The only restaurant outwith London to appear in the top 10 is Gaijin Sushi, in Birmingham, although eateries in Bristol, Manchester and Newcastle feature in the full list of 100.  OpenTable analysed over a million reviews left on its website by verified diners over the last 12 month.  Each restaurant was given an overall score based on a range of criteria, including its average rating; its rating relative to its area; and the number of restaurants reviewed by each diner.  1. CORE by Clare Smyth, London RESTAURANT  CUISINE    LOCATION THE RESTAURANT: Clare Smyth's first restaurant, Core by Clare Smyth, opened its doors August 2017. The chef previously headed up Gordon Ramsay's kitchens. Located in London's Notting Hill at 92 Kensington Park Road, the highly acclaimed eatery is a modern fine dining restaurant with a 'strong British ethos, in an elegant, relaxed interior'.  THE REVIEWS: One wrote: 'Well worth the wait. We had such a lovely meal and are super impressed with everything from the welcome you receive to the food to service and the way they accommodate food intolerances and allergies. Very appreciated! Brilliant.'   2. The Ledbury, London THE RESTAURANT: The Ledbury opened in 2005, with Brett Graham as Head Chef.  BEST BRITISH: CORE by Clare Smyth, London BEST EUROPEAN:  The Ledbury, London BEST FRENCH: Restaurant Gordon Ramsay, London BEST SEAFOOD: Scott's Restaurant, London  BEST ITALIAN: Evelyn's Table, London BEST SUSHI: Gaijin Sushi, London He is supported by a young and energetic team, both in the kitchen and Front of House, which has help the restaurant gain many ab accolades including the much coveted second Michelin Star.  THE REVIEWS: With over 2000 reviews, the restaurant also in Notting Hill, has been praised for its ambience, food and service. One reviewer said: 'Outstanding- the staff were impeccable, the food was delicious. A real treat!! Thank you for looking after us so well and making such a special occasion even more memorable!  Another wrote: 'What can I say. Faultless, creative amazing food even for the vegetarian in our group. Impeccable service from the waiting staff and extremely helpful sommelier who gave guidance without being at all arrogant.  3. The Five Fields, London  THE RESTAURANT: A native Londoner, Taylor Bonnyman's cooking is said to encapsulate the spirit of the capital. With a foundation built on British produce and seasonality, the food incorporates influences from London's broad range of cultures. THE REVIEWS: One reviewer praised everything in the restaurant as 'perfect'. Taking to OpenTable they said: 'Food, wine, service, everything perfect. The 7 course tasting menu was fantastic as well as the amuse bouche.  'Attentive and discreet service. Excellent cellar. The dining room is charming yet simple but too noisy and it's very difficult to talk and enjoy in full such excellent culinary experience. Anyway highly recommended.'  4. Restaurant Gordon Ramsay, London  THE RESTAURANT: Holding three Michelin-stars, Gordon Ramsay's flagship is an elegant modern French restaurant that uses seasonal ingredients, In 2015, Matt Abé was appointed Chef de Cuisine and continues to lead the team.    THE REVIEWS: The restaurant is very popular with diners, with one saying: 'The team was OUTSTANDING, the service, the ambience, the food and the experience. 'Mr Jean Claude (Maitre) was very attentive to our needs and conducted the flow of the restaurant very gallantly. We had a tour of the kitchen which meant a lot to me, because I am a chef as well. 'Also, the surprise mini cake for my daughter's birthday celebration along with a birthday card was a very nice detail on their end. Definitely, when I go back to London in the future, I will stop by for another treat.' 5. Trinity, London  THE RESTAURANT: Trinity opened in Clapham in October 2015. It has an alfresco dining area that accommodates 16 guests and a dining room seating area for 50 guests with a clear view into an open plan kitchen with banquette seating surrounded by the soft hues of jade green and dusty heather pink.  THE REVIEWS: One reviewer said: 'Absolutely outstanding! We went to Trinity because family favourite was full and that was a stroke of luck.  'Trinity is infinitely better for service, ambience, wine and most importantly food. I am not going to rehash the meal that we had but suffice I hope to say that it is so well crafted and so delicious that you savour every mouthful and eat it all slowly.  'One example I can give is the pheasant and pistachio terrine - the complexity of tastes in a single mouthful was hugely impressive.  'The sommelier really knew his stuff and recommended a fantastic Chianti. The other staff are knowledgeable and the service is pitched perfectly. I eat in decent restaurants all over the world and this was just a fantastic surprise. Loved it.' 6.  Scott's Restaurant, London THE RESTAURANT: Scott's in Mount Street, Mayfair, is a seafood restaurant offering oysters, fish and crustacea. As well as seafood, Scott's focus on seasonal game, meat and vegetarian dishes.   THE REVIEWS: One reviewer said: 'Mayfair's iconic Scotts is the best place to eat. The ambience is unique and cannot be replicated any place else. The steak is amazing and the sea bass.  'We always have spicy salmon tartar which is also unrivalled in my opinion. The prices are reasonable and the staff are truly wonderful. A must if in Mayfair , especially this time of year, the decorations outside are beautiful.' 7. Evelyn's Table, London THE RESTAURANT: Evelyn's Table is an intimate kitchen bar, tucked away in the cellar of The Blue Posts pub, serving seasonally-inspired southern European dishes.  THE REVIEWS: Top rated for Italian cuisine, one reviewer wrote: 'Simply spectacular. Lovely venue. Exquisite food. Attentive and enthusiastic staff. Will definitely return very soon.' Another said: ' This little place is a complete gem! We we blown away by the quality of the food and the super friendly service A third added: 'Fantastic experience, staff were very attentive and provide a personal service. Amazing food all served once ready and explained in good detail by the waiter or chef who serves you it.'  8. Gaijin Sushi, Birmingham  THE RESTAURANT: The only restaurant outside of London to take a coveted spot in the top 10, Gaijin Sushi is the brain child of chef and director, Michal Kubiak. Guests can sit around the sushi bar, which sits 10 and watch the chef create the sushi right before your eyes. THE REVIEWS: One reviewer wrote: 'The quality of the sushi here is phenomenal. The restaurant is intimate and you get to see the magic when you sit at the bar and watch the chef carefully craft his beautiful food.  'The fish is so fresh; Scallop nigiri being a particular favourite and the Miso is a cut above the usual chain offerings. Good choice of Japanese beers and lovely staff. Fabulous! 9.  Brawn, London   THE RESTAURANT: Brawn, in Bethnal Green, east London is a neighbourhood restaurant and bar cooking food that is within the season and sourced through as many local suppliers within the community and on the famous Colombia road. THE REVIEWS: Locals and travellers from afar love it, with one commenting: 'Wow. Visited a few years ago and was keen to visit again. Not disappointed... everything was 5*. The menu was great and the dishes absolutely stunning. Wonderful ingredients, tastes and presentation. Won't be leaving it so long next time.' Another said:  'What an absolutely brilliant restaurant. Friendly and with the perfect ambience, but mostly that incredible food. I'll be back again and again because this I think this is one of the best restaurants in the city' 10. Mere THE RESTAURANT: Mere is run by husband and wife team, Monica and David Galetti. Spread over two floors, this Fitzrovia-based eatery is the first restaurant of Monica Galetti who starred as a judge of the BBC's MasterChef The Professionals. The restaurant serves tweaked traditional, simple dishes.  THE REVIEWS: One reviewer wrote: 'The food was absolutely amazing better than I even imagined. There was a lovely atmosphere in the restaurant and the staff were extremely attentive and helpful. To top it all off Monica cane around the tables to say hello to everyone. Couldn't have asked for a better evening'. Another said: 'A top class fine dining experience, every mouthful having an intense flavour. The hokey pokey is to die for. This attracted me there in the first place, having seen on Masterchef and that, with everything else's we ate exceeded our expectations.'   In alphabetical order - rather than numerical - these are the top rated restaurants on OpenTable this year   
