{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  11:29, 14 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7708295/Shopper-brand-13-95-Vitamin-C-serum-best-thing-theyve-bought-face.html }
Shoppers have praised a £13.95 Vitamin C serum that is said to banish spots and brightens up skin as 'the best thing they've ever bought for their face'. The product, made by UK-based Generation Skincare, has won over hundreds of customers who have left glowing reviews on Amazon claiming the product 'works wonders on dry skin' and 'stops breakouts'.  Vitamin C has long been lauded by skincare experts for its anti-oxidant, anti-ageing and radiance boosting benefits, but recently has seen a boom in sales of the serums for everyday use. The vitamin can help neutralise damage the environment does to skin and is particularly good at tackling dull, dark spots which can accelerate ageing. The incredible results of the Generation Skincare Vitamin C Serum were shared by impressed customers on Amazon. It costs £13.95 for a 30ml bottle on the site.  Photos show how skin looked less red and brighter after using. Some women showed how their spots had cleared thanks to the product.  Reviewing the serum on Amazon, one shopper wrote: 'I have been using this serum for the past couple of weeks now and as you can see it has made a massive difference between my skin tone.  'I suffer with redness on my face on this has made a massive difference.  'It's not as red and I am sure the more I use it the more it will go down.  'The dryness on my skin has also improved, which happened on the second day of using and now it feels silky soft.'  Vitamin C is found in citrus fruits as well as rosehip, strawberries, spinach, parsley and broccoli. It's known for helping boost immunity but is also crucial for collagen production and repairing age-related damage to the complexion. Vitamin C is also improves connective tissue throughout the body and is clinically proven to reduce the appearance of wrinkles and sun spots Another beauty buff added: 'This product works as advertised and provides a great base for makeup, as well as improving the appearance of blemishes.  'The serum really helped moisturise dry areas of skin after I'd had a cold, I could feel it working round my nose and mouth, and noticed that these areas looked and felt more healthy after use.  'The serum smells lovely and the bottle is small enough to pop inside your makeup bag if you're going away overnight. You don't need to used very much at a time, so a bottle should last a good amount of time before needing to be replaced.  A third said: 'Best stuff I've ever bought for my face.  'After a face mask or washing my face I put some of this on. It feels slightly tingly but that's when you know it's working.  'This is great for my face because I hate moisturisers and oily creams. Whenever I put this one before bed, I never wake up with blemishes on my skin.  'I even had a few red spots/ patches on my chest and I used some of this to get rid of them before a weekend out and worked like a treat. Will definitely repurchase!'   
