food reviews
{ By Laura House For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  03:23, 13 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7787681/Mecca-eight-beauty-products-BEST-reviews-2019.html }
After 12 months and thousands of exciting makeup and skincare releases, Australian beauty store Mecca has revealed the eight new products with the best reviews.  And they don't disappoint, with a $9 sponge, a translucent powder, a 'miracle' skin oils, a 'selfie skin' foundation and a 'life-changing' moisturiser all making the 2019 list.  'It's been a blockbuster year for new beauty and we've been graced with new products that quickly garnered a cult following,' the Mecca team wrote.  'Here are the new products with the most five-star reviews this year.' FACE HERO by GO-TO, $45  This lightweight oil has more than 572 five-star reviews, with customers commenting on the its ability to clear up blemishes, hydrate and leave skin with a 'beautiful glow'.  Featuring ten plant and nut oils, this product is 'rich in essential fatty acids, vitamins and antioxidants that fight against fine lines, dark spots, dryness and inflammation'. It also promises to leave no residue and penetrate fast and deep into the skin, improving its elasticity and protecting it from environmental aggressors and ageing.  It's also made without animal products, parabens, silicone, PEGs, sulphates (SLS/SLES), GMOs, mineral oil, petrolatum and synthetic colours.   'I cannot live without Face Hero. Its everything I need and more. It has helped clear my skin up, its so hydrating and it gives your skin such a beautiful glow. I will repurchase this forever. Definitely recommend to anyone with any skin issue,' one woman wrote.  TRANSLUCENT LOOSE SETTING POWDER by LAURA MERCIER, $60   With 408 five-star reviews, this powder is worth every cent.  This cult buy is designed to absorb excess oil and promote a shine-free complexion for up to 23 hours and is praised for its lightweight formula.  The powder promises to set makeup without causing a cakey appearance and is made with a 'soft-focus' technology which 'blurs the appearance of fine lines and imperfections'. 'I had the travel-sized before and loved how it kept me looking fresh despite a busy morning shift. I use minimal make-up and this loose powder keeps me from getting too oily and keeps my under eye concealer in place,' a customer wrote. MICROFIBRE VELVET SPONGE by JUNO, $9 With 233 five-star reviews since its release, this sponge is sure to give the popular Beauty Blender a run for its money. Described as a 'velvet-soft sponge', it is said to deliver 'flawless, buildable coverage with ease thanks to the precise microfibre bristles and slanted edge'. 'I've been using this for 3 or so weeks and felt compelled to write a review because I love this sponge so much,' one customer wrote. 'For years I've never trusted anything but my beauty blender but saw this at Mecca for $9 and decided to give it a go. 'Not only does this sponge feel insanely soft and is great for getting in all different parts of the face, but it is really good at not soaking up foundation, I can fully cover my entire face only using half the product I usually would.' SLAII CLEANSER by DRUNK ELEPHANT, $52 This cleanser has 175 five-star reviews and is described as an 'innovative balm that transforms from oil to milk upon contact with water'.  The cleanser promises to 'melt away' impurities, makeup and sunscreen and is made with antioxidant-rich fruit extracts and oils that help to soothe skin. It is also free from essential oils, silicones, fragrance, PEGs and irritants. 'This really is the best cleansing balm ever! A little goes a long way and the magnetic spoon helps you take a measured amount and not waste product. The cleanser melts into your skin and its just so smooth and soothing,' a reviewer wrote.  'It dissolves all your makeup including mascara. My skin feels so soft and nourished after cleansing, no dryness at all.'  DAMN GIRL! 24 HOUR MASCARA by TOO FACED, $37 While the Better Than Sex Mascara is the most well-known by the brand, this Too Faced mascara has taken the beauty world by storm and received 144 five-star reviews since its launch.  Featuring a 'revolutionary creamy mousse' this 'game-changing' mascara promises to inject volume into the lashes without the uncomfortable 'heavy' feeling. 'Innovative polymers keep lashes flexible while lifting lengthening and locking in 24 hours of smudge and flake resistant curl,' the description reads. Customers praise the mascara's 'big wand', 'full and thick' results and 'smudge-free' application. 'I first tried this mascara 6 months ago and it's been a game changer! We all know it's all about the brush, this one is hands down the best I've used and the mascara stays full and thick, no black smudges or flakes throughout the day,' one wrote. SELFIE SKIN 2-IN-1 FOUNDATION AND CONCEALER by MECCA MAX, $28 With 144 five-star reviews, this two-in-one concealer and foundation is known for its 'matte' formula and 'undetectable' yet 'high coverage' finish.  The buildable creamy makeup can be applied with fingers, a sponge or a brush and is a great addition to a travel makeup bag.  It also has mattifying powders to absorb excess oil and is 100 per cent vegan and cruelty-free. 'I don't usually write reviews at all, but this tube deserves one. Have tried foundation from different brands and if they're fuller coverage, they're usually cakey or feels thick on the skin,' one woman wrote. 'This one has medium to full coverage and works brilliantly as a concealer too, yet very very light on the skin. I'm so glad I tried it and dont be fooled by its affordable price tag, its really worth the buy.'  THE DEWY SKIN CREAM by TATCHA, $104 It might be $104 but the 177 rave five-star reviews of this cream speak for themselves.   This cream promises to 'instantly veil the skin in a healthy, dewy glow while locking in hydration and nutrients for improved skin function and a soft, smooth complexion'. The luxury formula is made with three Japanese superfoods -  green tea, rice, and algae - and is rich in antioxidants to leave the skin healthy, luminous and more youthful-looking. 'I have been searching for a moisturiser to replace my La Mer cream due to cost being too high,' a reviewer wrote. 'Tried multiple high end creams. This cream is very moisturising and perfectly suited for skin that is dry or if you live in dry and less humid environment, and the perfect compliment for the primer from this brand. For me it lived up to the hype.'  WATERMELON GLOW SLEEPING MASK by GLOW RECIPE, $69  Glow Recipe's launch into Australia was huge this year - and since, the popular Watermelon Glow Sleeping Mask has received a staggering 127 five-star reviews on the Mecca website.  The 'glow-boosting' treatment is infused with watermelon, AHA's and hyaluronic acid that 'gently exfoliates and refines pores, in a super versatile formula that can be used as an overnight or wash-off mask'. The mask has four main ingredients: amino-packed watermelon, hydrating hyaluronic acid, protecting antioxidants and brightening peony root.  It's also free from parabens, SLS + SLES, synthetic dyes, mineral oils, phthalates, formaldehydes + formaldehyde-releasing agents, pegs, hydroquinone, plastic microbeads, artificial colorants, BHA/BHT (butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene and preservatives. 'I've used it every night since purchasing and my skin is so much more smother and brighter. It doesn't make my skin oily or shiny and the packaging is so cute. Love this brand,' a reviewer wrote.     
