{ By Joel Adams For Mailonline   Published:  13:06, 12 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7784637/TripAdvisor-users-rate-Buckingham-Palace-terrible-knackered-old-council-house.html }
Royal lovers were left less than impressed after visiting Buckingham Palace, and have left hilarious reviews on TripAdvisor slamming The Queen's home. Over 250 visitors to the royal residence have given it a 'terrible' rating on the tourism review site, with complaints branding it a 'knackered old council house' and 'drab.' Some also complained that Her Majesty didn't give them a wave, the 'intimidating' guards didn't smile and it was better just looking at photos of the palace online. Others said it the cost of the tour - up to £27 for adults - was too expensive and it was also blasted for being too busy with too many police around. Visits to the Palace, in which you can see 19 'magnificent' State Rooms furnished with the 'greatest treasures from the Royal Collection' ended for the year in late September. Tours of the nearby Royal Mews also ended back in November. But this hasn't stopped visitors piling in on their negative experiences over the last year, with one reviewer titling their review 'Over-rated Council House'.  'Hampton Court is far better and a much better historic example. This knackered old council house would be better turned into affordable housing,' they wrote in a ranting post. A second - called Frogga1978 - fumed: 'Don't give HM any more of your hard earned cash!! Dirty outside and embarrassing that it is really quite a drab looking building for a country with such history. 'Please don't give the Royals any more of your hard earned money, we give them enough already via our taxes!!!' Annelieke, of Leiden, The Netherlands, branded Buckingham Palace 'boring' in a jokey review. 'They wouldn't let us in. Even though it was cold and rainy outside. The guards couldn't even smile for a second. The Queen refused to open the door or even wave at the window.' US tourist Cara Lynne, of Pennsylvania, wrote: 'Hard to see anything, didn't do a tour. There are soooo many people.... a ton of police and you can barely see anything. 'I think it is better to look at pictures online rather than be outside.' Another called Niamh said: 'I visited with two young children who climbed on the railing for a photo. 'I didn't see any signs prohibiting this. A guard from inside the grounds shouted at them to get down, while holding his hand on his gun. The way he shouted was honestly the most aggressive and intimidating in thing I have witnessed. 'He was quite away away and he repeated 'Get DOWN' as if he was siege in Vietnam. My kids are four and five years old by the way. 'It ruined the experience for my autistic son, but hey, the guard got to feel like a big man so there you go. Someone didn't get the memo that the British Empire is no longer a big deal,' Celine B, of St Albans, Herts ranted: 'The worst queuing experience ever. Ok so it is raining. But totally shambolic. This is unspeakably bad.' Lance F said: 'The Buckingham Palace tour is probably the least welcoming tour I've been on in the British Isles. 'Not only are there a lot of strict rules, but the guides (called Wardens) are about as condescending as people can be paid to be. 'The thing is, the Queen doesn't want us touring her home-and she seems to have done all she can to make a tourist visitor feel unwelcome and unwanted.' 
