food reviews
{ By Vanessa Chalmers Health Reporter For Mailonline   Published:  00:01, 12 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-7780785/Dietitians-reveal-five-wildest-diet-fads-2019-including-IV-drips-hair-gummies.html }
Beyoncé, the Kardashians and Chrissy Teigen have all been name-checked in a list of 2019's worst health fads. Leading dietitians have revealed five of the worst tips they've come across this year that should be avoided in 2020, including Beyoncé's 22-day diet. The British Dietetic Association (BDA) urged dieters to remember it takes longer than 22 days to boost health through food.   And the body also slammed hair gummies - promoted by the Kardashians for being based on 'zero evidence'. IV drips, which are endorsed by model Chrissy Teigen and singer Rihanna, could also be dangerous, the BDA said.  The BDA said it comes across an enormous amount of bizarre claims - and celebrities are at the forefront of some 'laughable' fads. Here, MailOnline breaks down the verdict from several registered BDA dietitians on the five trendy fads.   IV drips Promoters claim IV vitamin drips can do almost anything, including burning fat, quickly fixing a hangover, boosting energy levels, fighting jet lag or strengthening the immune system.  Who's a fan? The market has boomed in recent years since singer and businesswoman Rihanna and model Chrissy Teigen posted photos of themselves hooked up to a vitamin cocktail IV in 2012 and 2015 respectively.  BDA verdict: There is no evidence that taking vitamins via an IV drip has any benefits for most people, and this invasive procedure can be dangerous. Marcela Fiuza said: 'Any time you have an IV inserted, there is a risk of infection as well as risk that a vein could become inflamed or blocked with a clot (a condition called thrombophlebitis).  'This risk is increased when unqualified people are doing it. 'There is also a concerning risk that you will get too much of the vitamins without knowing. This can have serious health implications, particularly for those having it regularly. People living with health conditions (known or unknown) are also at particular risk for this. 'Even if no complications occur, you will probably just excrete at least 90 per cent of what's being infused – it is literally money down the toilet.  'For most people, a healthy balanced diet (and in some cases an oral vitamin supplement) is sufficient to provide all the vitamins and minerals you need.' Beyoncé's 22-day diet  Beyoncé and her trainer Marco Borges created the 22 Days Nutrition vegan food plan, based around the pretence of 21 days being enough to make or break a habit. By day 22, you should be converted and stick to eating a plant-based diet.  The plan isn't available in the UK but in the USA the cost is $39 (£29.70) per quarter or $99 (£75.30) for the year.  Who's a fan? Beyoncé and her husband Jay Z. BDA verdict: This way of eating is said to have huge health benefits due to cutting out processed foods and reducing meat consumption. But it is too short to make an impact.  Anna Daniels said: 'This could be a good way for someone to want to kick start a better way of eating and reduce their intake of high fat, high salt foods. However, it will certainly take longer than 22 days to eat optimally and for good health and longevity. 'A few reviews of the diet online call out some issues with the variety of unusual ingredients and preparation time.  'I am a believer in eating right and planning, however it does have to work for you - if it's too hard it won't happen.  'Beyoncé also may very well have had a personal chef creating the plan for her which would have made it far easier to stick to. 'You could do this on your own, using your own recipes and adapting your current recipes, without the expense.' Hair gummies Hair gummies are what they say on the tin - they are gummy sweets which supposedly improve your hair. Yet, there is no scientific backing for them. Who's a fan? Celebrities like reality TV stars Khloé, Kim, Kourtney and Kris Kardashian and actress Vanessa Hudgens have all regularly promoted hair gummies on Instagram. BDA verdict: These hair gummies are over-priced multivitamins targeted at those of us who are unhappy with our hair. Celebs and influencers with hairdressers on tap, hair extensions and naturally gorgeous hair are promoting these as 'must have products' at £20-30 each month.  Aisling Pigott said: 'Another celeb, another false nutrition claim.  'Hair and skin health are influenced by many factors including lifestyle, hormones, genetics and diet. However, to imply that taking a vitamin tablet can "give us better hair" is based on zero evidence. 'Vitamin and mineral deficiencies which affect our hair are rare, but an overall poor diet can impact our hormones and stress levels. 'This is irresponsible advertising from celebrities endorsing products which lack scientific evidence. If you want to get the best out of your hair (and save some cash), enjoy a healthy, balanced diet with the right amount of energy, fruit and vegetables.' Fat shaming Who's a fan? US talk show host Bill Maher said fat-shaming should make a comeback in order to combat obesity. He and others argue that shaming and humiliating people for the size of their body will encourage them to lose weight.   BDA Verdict: These ideas have been common for a while, and shaming people for the size of their bodies has been used to sell everything from women's magazines to laxative teas. Katherine Kimber said: 'In short, fat shaming is draining on human health. 'There is clear evidence to suggest that shaming people because of their size, will not improve their health.  'In fact, it's been linked to widespread exclusion, marginalisation, avoidance of accessing healthcare, reduced physical activity and poorer psychological and physical health. 'Rather, focusing on positive health behaviours and taking the microscope off of body weight and size is a positive alternative approach.  'It's about recognising the complexities of body weight, and understanding that weight is not a behaviour. It's very complex.' Glacce amethyst bottles Crystal infused water from your very own gemstone water bottle allows you to drink healing water or 'Crystal Elixir'. They claim that iron and minerals along with the healing properties of certain crystals are released into the water, which you can then drink and reap the benefits.  Each crystal supposedly has its own benefits such as helping with insomnia, promoting energy, improving mood or relieving stress.  Who's a fan? In July, Victoria Beckham shared images of her water bottle with 'vibrational crystal pods', which are like tea infusers holding lots of small crystals.  Gwyneth Paltrow sells the bottles on her website Goop and says they are perfect for 'spiritual support'.  BDA Verdict: It's crystal clear this is nonsense. Claire Pettitt said: 'As much as I would be the first person to support adequate hydration as the backbone of health, there is absolutely no evidence to support any benefit of adding crystals to your water.  'There is limited research looking at crystal elixirs and so the health benefits claimed to occur with these magical drinks are simply not evidence-based. 'Sure, you will feel good if you improve your hydration. Yes, concentrate on drinking more water if you need to, but at the end of the day I wouldn't waste your money on a water bottle with an inbuilt crystal.  'Get a reusable stainless steel one instead and help reduce your plastic use and protect the environment whilst keeping hydrated.'   
