{ By Valerie Edwards For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  20:45, 11 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7782299/FAA-chief-says-not-signing-Boeings-737-Max-flies-plane-himself.html }
The chief of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) told lawmakers on Wednesday that he will not be signing off on Boeing's 737 Max until all technical reviews are complete and until he flies the aircraft for himself.  At the hearing, Steve Dickson confirmed the agency will not approve Boeing's grounded 737 Max for flight before the end of 2019, citing a series of steps that still must be completed. 'I am not going to sign off on this aircraft until all FAA technical reviews are complete, I fly it myself using my experience as an Air Force and commercial pilot, and I am satisfied that I would put my own family on it without a second thought,' Dickson told lawmakers.  Dickson outlined some of the key steps that still need to take place before he gives his approval for the jet to return to the skies.  First, Boeing must complete a certification test flight with the 737 Max updates on flight-control software and other revisions meant to add layers of protection. Scroll down for video   An evaluation of pilot training needs by a Joint Operations Evaluation Board, made up of the FAA's Flight Standardization Board and partners from Canada, Europe, and Brazil, must be completed as well.  Other steps include: A report from the FAA's Flight Standardization Board on the JOEB's findings, which will be made available for public review, allowing airlines to propose changes, an FAA review of all final 737 Max design documentation, which also will be reviewed by the Technical Advisory Board (TAB) and a Continued Airworthiness Notification from the FAA to the international community about pending safety actions on the 737 MAX. During the hearing, officials said they are also requiring an independent review of changes Boeing is making to the 737 Max flight control system by TAB made up of experts from the FAA, NASA, the Air Force and the Volpe Center including test pilots, aerospace engineers and chief scientists with backgrounds in flight controls, flight operations, simulators, human factors, computer systems and software, flight standards and safety. And lastly, Boeing will need an Airworthiness Directive from the FAA spelling out the steps that airplane operators must take with their 737 Max fleets.  Officials from the FAA said on Wednesday that they will also investigate production issues at Boeing's 737 Max factory.  Those issues were raised by Ed Pierson, an ex-manager at Boeing, who warned that schedule pressure and worker fatigue undermined quality and raised safety risks. Pierson drew a link between faulty Angle of Attack sensors in two recent 737 Max crashes that killed 346 people and what he called a 'chaotic and alarming state' inside Boeing's factory that undermined quality and safety. Both planes were built at the Renton, Washington, Boeing factory.   'It is alarming that these sensors failed on multiple flights mere months after the airplanes were manufactured in a factory experiencing frequent wiring problems and functional test issues,' Pierson said at a hearing before lawmakers. Federal officials said this week that FAA approval is not until January at the earliest, though some US officials think it may not be until at least February. Boeing has warned that a significant delay in 737 Max approval could force it to cut or even halt production of the aircraft, a move that would have repercussions across its global supply chain. Its shares fell 1 per cent. Lawmakers aggressively questioned Dickson about an internal FAA analysis produced before a second fatal crash that suggested serious risks of crashes over the life of the airplane and questioned why that did not prompt more aggressive action. DeFazio was referring to the FAA analysis that showed that the flawed flight-control system that led to a Boeing 737 Max jet crash in October 2018 would likely lead to one fatal incident every two to three years, but the agency allowed the planes to carry on flying anyway.  The FAA estimate covered the lifespan of the Max and assumed the fleet would eventually grow to 4,800 planes. The analysis predicted that as many as 15 catastrophic accidents could occur over the 30 to 45-year life span of the Max fleet, unless fixes were made to the automated flight-control system. That equates to at least one fatal crash about every two or three years. Dickson said at the hearing Boeing could still face fines for not disclosing problems with the 737 Max earlier.  Once the FAA clears the plane to fly and approves training changes, it will still take US airlines 30 days or more to resume flights. The three US carriers that operate the 737 Max - Southwest Airlines Co, American Airlines Group Inc and United Airlines Holdings Inc - are scheduling flights without use of the aircraft until early March 2020, nearly a year since the plane was grounded after crashes killed 346 people in Indonesia and Ethiopia. By Valerie Edwards for DailyMail.com  The FAA’s analysis was disclosed Wednesday during a hearing of the House Transportation Committee, which is investigating the agency’s oversight of Boeing and the Max. After the completion of a risk assessment following the first crash, when a Lion Air Max plunged into the sea off the coast of Indonesia in October 2018, FAA leaders decided to allow the Max to carry on in service.  That decision ultimately fell apart within a matter of months when the second fatal crash occurred.  On March 10, 2019, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashed near the town of Bishoftu, six minutes after takeoff.  Fewer than 400 Max planes were flying before they were grounded in March 2019, after the second crash. FAA chief Stephen Dickson said his agency controls the process of approving the return to service of the troubled plane and won't delegate any of that authority to Boeing. Dickson defended the safety record of US aviation, saying 'what we have done in the past and what we are doing now will not be good enough in the future'. Edward Pierson, a retired Boeing production manager, told lawmakers that the assembly line at the Boeing factory in Washington state fell far behind schedule by mid-2018 because of cascading problems that began with late delivery of key parts.  Yet Boeing went ahead with its plan to boost production from 47 to 52 planes a month. 'By June 2018, I had grown gravely concerned that Boeing was prioritizing production speed over quality and safety,' Pierson said. 'I witnessed a factory in chaos and reported serious concerns about production quality to senior Boeing leadership months before the first crash' and again before the second crash. No action was taken about his concerns, and executives didn't discuss the problems in financial reports, Pierson said.    
