food reviews
{ By Joe Pinkstone For Mailonline    Published:  05:00, 11 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7779507/Facebook-no-longer-Glassdoors-10-workplaces.html }
A nightmare 2019 continues for beleaguered tech giants Facebook and Google as they tumble outside of the 'Top 10 best places to work' in their native US.  The fall from grace comes at the end of a year with well-publicised internal scandals, protests and open letters at both firms as well as privacy issues and data breaches.   Glassdoor's annual best places to work list is created based on responses from actual employees and has Facebook and Google listed at 23 and 11, respectively.  This is a dramatic change from the 2018 list, which had the online behemoths first and fifth, before their reputations were tarnished by a deluge of disgraces.   Rival Microsoft, however, is one of the most consistent performers internationally, appearing in the Top-10 lists of seven countries - a feat only matched by software giant SAP.  Scroll down for video   HubSpot takes the top spot as the best place to work going into 2020, with Bain & Company and DocuSign rounding out the top three.  Juul Labs, the company besieged with scandal after many of their products were linked to serious health concerns, ranks as the 31st best place to work in the US. The lowly ranking for both Google and Facebook tops off a year where staff protested over moral and ethical concerns.   Just last month, more than 200 Google staffers protested the treatment of two employees.  February  March  April  June  July  September  October  November  The protesters alleged that the individuals were targeted and put on leave due to their workplace activism.   Facebook has tumbled from first, to seventh and then 23rd in successive years.  Open letters to Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg and public outrage over allegations of racial bias, the reluctance to address political misinformation on the site and claims its moderators were 'addicted' to graphic content, leading some to accumulate troves of objectionable media for their own personal archives.  As well as this, a number of leaked email addresses and passwords for both Facebook and Instagram users has led to further questions over its ability to protect users online in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica debacle.  Facebook also agreed to pay a £500,000 fine this year and withdrew its appeal.   Many employees at Facebook took issue with the social media platform not taking a stand against misinformation in political adverts.  A letter written and signed by hundreds of workers at the company implored Mark Zuckerberg to change the company's stance.  'Misinformation affects us all. Our current policies on fact-checking people in political office, or those running for office, are a threat to what FB stands for,' wrote the employees.   Google meanwhile has plunged from fifth, to eighth and now to eleventh in the list of best US employers over the last three years.  Google has been the focal point of three antitrust lawsuits in the EU and was forced to hand over a record-breaking $5 billion in fines in July as well as £1.27bn for breaching competition laws in March.  Google, which also owns video-streaming company YouTube, has been rocked by child protection issues in 2019. YouTube changed its way of working and now requires creators to disclose whether their content is directed at children. This move was made following a landmark lawsuit which found them guilty of targeting children with adverts and illegally collecting their data, a FTC investigation revealed.  In February, companies including Nestle and the makers of Fortnite pulled their adverts from YouTube after a 'soft-core paedophile ring' was discovered on the site. Videos of youngsters, sometimes in compromising positions, were reportedly being inundated with comments by paedophiles and attracting tens of millions of views. Some of the disturbing footage, reportedly featuring girls as young as five, appeared alongside advertising from companies such as Disney and Nestle, according to a US-based vlogger.  Apple dropped 13 spots to 84th while Amazon did not make the top 100. The British arm of search firm Google has nabbed the top spot on a list of best companies to work for in the UK.    A score of 4.5/5 puts it marginally ahead of of second-placed Equal Experts and Salesforce in third, which received the same grade. Google staff in the UK highlighted its great benefits and perks such as free food at work as well as a good work-life balance. It marks the third time Google has topped the list in Britain, after 2015 and 2018.  A blip last year saw it fall out of the top 10, before a 12-place surge saw it return to the top of the mountain.   It is also the only company that has featured on the list for the last six years.  Google is investing heavily in the UK as it expands its reach across the Atlantic.  It is currently in the midst of a £1bn project to create a 'superheadquarters' in London to replace its current hubs and provide it with a permanent base.  Microsoft came in at seven, and Apple and Facebook settled at 32 and 37, respectively.  While Google seems to have weathered the internal storm overseas, Facebook's popularity has been in free-fall in light of recent controversy.   The company received an overall rating of 4.4 out of 5, compared with 4.5 last year, as employees gave relatively lower ratings for Facebook's senior leadership and work-life balance. 'High profile projects can be extremely political and can really be dragged down by too many cooks in the kitchen. In a post-Cambridge Analytica world there are huge slowdowns in releasing new features or products...,' according to one of the employee reviews on Glassdoor. Facebook is facing the heat over its handling of user data, misinformation campaigns on the platform, as well as its plan for a global cryptocurrency called Libra. Still, employee sentiment toward Facebook remained largely positive on better compensation and career opportunities, according to the Glassdoor report released BBC was the only major mainstream media outlet in the top 50, settling at 48.  Topps Tiles was a surprise inclusion in the top-10, breaking up the dominance of tech and software companies.    Canada France  Germany  Brazil      Mexico  Argentina   Singapore Source: glassdoor    
