food reviews
{ By Sophie Haslett For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  00:51, 11 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7778577/The-five-popular-beauty-brands-WORLD-according-Reddit.html }
If you're looking for beauty news and reviews, Reddit is an Aladdin's cave of information and brand recommendations. Now, the social news aggregation, web content rating, and general discussion website has shared the five most popular beauty brands in the world according to their users - and they're all affordable. From a pharmacy favourite beloved by Kim Kardashian to a staple in every millennial's beauty bag, FEMAIL reveals the five biggest beauty brands to know about right now. 1. Cetaphil While she is no stranger to expensive skincare, Kim Kardashian said one $17 cleanser that's available from Woolworths is her go-to product. So it will come as no surprise to Cetaphil's legions of fans that the dermatologist-recommended brand has made it into the top five beauty labels for Reddit users. Users praised the brand as excellent for sensitive skin.  'I use it every day. It's the only cleanser that's worked reliably for me, and my skin changes through the seasons,' one person wrote.  'Cetaphil is like my old faithful. It's literally the only product that I can have two or three week no-breakout streaks,' another added. 2. Glossier Born on Instagram, Glossier is the brainchild of former American beauty editor, Emily Weiss, and it has only soared in popularity since it launched in 2014. The brow grooming product 'Boy Brow' is the brand's number one best-seller, but it also boasts a host of other products too - whether you're after skincare, makeup or even fragrance. Redditors praised Glossier's thin and sheer consistency and pretty packaging. 'I didn't think I would like it but the aesthetics got me and the formula surprisingly works super well for me,' one reviewer wrote. Among their top picks were 'Boy Brow', 'Cloud Paint' cream blusher and the 'Priming Moisturiser'. 3. Clinique Launched in 1968 after a leading dermatologist asked 'can great skin ever be created?', Clinique's three-step skin regime revolutionised how women approached their skin - and what they put on it. The brand's most popular product, the Dramatically Different Moisturising Lotion, sells every five seconds around the world, and it's got fans online too. 'I feel like Clinique is one of those brands that consistently has good, solid products - but they don't get talked about a whole lot,' one person posted recently. Others praised their serums and makeup removers - which are great for those with allergies and sensitive skin.   4. Neutrogena Neutrogena may have been around for decades, but that doesn't mean it doesn't do a very effective job. The number one dermatologist-recommended skincare brand in the world has hundreds of products, whether you're after moisturisers or powders. Many on Reddit described Neutrogena as a 'mixed bag'. 'Some products are good, like their Ultra Gentle cleansers, and some are just too harsh, like their "blackhead" scrubs or their toners with alcohol,' one woman posted. Most Neutrogena products will set you back less than $20. 5. CeraVe Another cult brand, CeraVe has steadily built up a following in the US, thanks to its fragrance-free, non-irritating, non-greasy formulas. Now it's available in Australia, we can also get our hands on the face creams and washes at cut prices. When asked what makes the brand so good, one Reddit user replied: 'Low price point and quality ingredients'. Another said: 'I've been using their Renewing SA cleanser for a while now and my skin really likes it.'    
