food reviews
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  16:35, 10 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7777149/Taylor-Swift-plugs-role-Bombalurina-shares-Cats-throwback-day-set.html }
She's turning 30 this week. And Taylor Swift is ending her third decade at the top of her game - both as a singer, and an actress. Promoting her latest project, the much talked about big screen version of Broadway hit Cats, she shared a throwback image on Tuesday. 'Throwback to my first day on the set of @catsmovie,' wrote Taylor, who celebrates her birthday this coming Friday. 'Basically, Bombalurina is one of those really mischievous cats you see in internet videos who has figured out how to open human doors.' The image showed Taylor leaning up to undo an oversized door on the set. In this case she is not in her Cats costume or make-up, but is instead dressed as the Taylor her fans know and love.  Ever since the first trailer dropped in July, the upcoming movie has caused a sensation, with viewers divided over the human cat hybrids. But that isn't stopping the cast enthusiastically promoting the film, which will be released in time to target the peak Christmas movie-going crowd.  And whatever the reviews evebtually say, Taylor is already nominated for a Golden Globe for her work, with her track Beautiful Ghosts receiving a coveted nod for Best Original Song. She celebrated the good news on Monday, sharing pictures of herself with co-writer Andrew Lloyd Webber to Instagram. 'I woke up today to the news that Beautiful Ghosts is nominated for a Golden Globe - it's so cool that one of the most fun, fulfilling creative experiences I've ever had is being honored in this way by the HFPA,' she wrote.  'I ended up spending many days on set watching the other performers do their scenes. Watching the character Victoria, played by Francesca Hayward, inspired me so much and Beautiful Ghosts was the result.  'Congrats to my co-writer and buddy 4 life Andrew Lloyd Webber. This is just purrfect.' Taylor has also spoken out about her big birthday this Friday.  During a video interview with British Vogue's Editor in Chief, Edward Enninful, Taylor said: 'I'm really excited about it. I've heard really good things about your thirties. Feeling a bit more secure ... a bit.'   Taylor believes her age has helped her to analyse 'toxic messages' about her body and improve her relationship with body positivity.  She added: 'One thing going into my thirties that I'm really stoked about is I now can really recognize and diagnose toxic messages being sent to me by society, by culture about my body. I'm a woman, I'm not a coat hanger.  'I need to feel healthy in my life, and I need to take pleasure in food, and I need to not use my body as an exercise of control when I feel out of control in my life.'   
