{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:55, 10 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/bills/article-7714779/More-Amazon-customers-report-accounts-hacked-unable-refund.html }
A numbers of frustrated Amazon customers have had their accounts compromised, sometimes with thousands of pounds worth of purchases being made.  Many have found that items had been ordered on their account and paid for on their card but were then sent to Amazon lockers across the country, far from where they live. Similarly, most of the shoppers have reported that Amazon have been slow to take action and forced to cancel their credit and debit cards to stop further payments being taken due to the retail giant's sluggish response.  One shopper revealed when his account was hacked, his account was used to make a series of purchases costing 11p a go. Most of the purchases made were on what seem to be electrical items but are quite likely to be a fake advert for products with no real promise of delivering if someone actually bought it.  The reader, Gary, said that he woke up one morning to find that he had 26 emails from Amazon, confirming purchases of 26 items – all worth 11p. While it was not a large sum of money, he was concerned that further purchases of higher amounts could be made, much like many other customers who have had hundreds taken from their accounts.   After calling his bank, he was told it would not be able to stop Amazon taking money as it was not a fraudulent company - the only choice he had was to cancel his card to stop anymore cash being taken out. He called Amazon but said he was 'fobbed off with no explanation and no apology'.  After a day he managed to get back into his account where he removed all of his cards and changed the password. Afterwards he received a further 26 emails from Amazon advising that he had left reviews on all of the items purchased under his name. Gary said: 'It opens a whole can of worms about not just security, but the integrity of the Amazon review process.' Many Amazon customers store their card details on the online giant for ease of purchase - but This is Money has heard of other cases of items being ordered seemingly from accounts being accessed by fraudsters.   Another reader, Catherine, said that an order for Apple Airpods had been made from her account with £140.99 taken from the card she has saved online. After contacting Amazon and then her bank, NatWest said it would refund her the money as it was definitely fraud. However, she then received an email from Amazon asking her to refund it the £140.99.  She explained that she didn't understand why they would want the money when the order was fraudulent and she had already been refunded by her bank. It claimed it had refunded her £140.99 but she says this is not the case and could not be true as she had removed all of her card details off Amazon after money was taken. The dispute is still continuing and Catherine has said she has still never received a refund from Amazon. One reader, CJ, who got in touch said Amazon told him his bank would have to refund him - but his bank told him it is the retailer who need to return the money. This has left him without a refund and nowhere to turn to as they blame each other.   He said: 'Amazon is not taking into account that this has seriously put me in a stressful situation leaving me with no money in my account and having to take out a payday loan just so I can buy food.' Other readers had no idea their account had been compromised until a delivery turned up on their doorstep. One such person, Sharon, said that she got home to find an item had been delivered from Amazon.  Having not ordered anything, she checked her account to see that over £400 had been taken. Unfortunately, she has not been refunded by either her bank or Amazon despite returning the item through Parcel Force at her own expense. She said: 'I need this resolving and am struggling to see how their CEO believes Amazon are customer obsessed.  'It feels to me they have the money and the item and are not interested in fixing the issues they clearly have with hacking of accounts.' As she works in IT, Sharon says she knows that she hasn't accidentally clicked on a phishing email and given her details away as Amazon has previously suggested customers do. She is still waiting for the situation to be rectified and has said it has caused her an immense amount of stress. None of the above readers have been advised how their accounts were hacked or when they can expect their money to be returned. All were advised after speaking to Amazon that they would be contacted in 24 hours but this was not the case for any of them. An Amazon spokesman said: 'Amazon is constantly innovating on behalf of customers to ensure their information is secure and that they can buy with confidence on Amazon.co.uk.  'We have a range of sophisticated and rigorous fraud detection and prevention measures that provide comprehensive layers of protection for our customers. 'We also provide customers with the option to enable Two Step Verification, customers can click on the "Your Account" button on the Amazon.co.uk homepage and choose "Login and Security" for more details. 'Amazon is relentless in our efforts to protect the integrity of reviews.  'Any attempt to manipulate customer reviews is strictly prohibited and in the last year alone, we've spent over $400million to protect customers from reviews abuse, fraud and other forms of misconduct.'  This is Money recently reported on two readers who had significant sums of money taken from their accounts and were struggling to get the money refunded from Amazon or their bank. Amazon's response to both customers suggested that it believed the users had clicked on a phishing link and given away their details to a fraudster without realising. If you have had your Amazon account hacked, one of the first things you should do is contact the site on 0800 279 7234 to report it. Another step you should take is to change your password - preferably making it something completely different. Make sure to report the incident to your bank so they are aware of any fraudulent transactions but say that you wish to dispute a transaction as opposed to immediately reporting it as fraud. Where fraud is alleged, banks can launch investigations which means it may take longer for victims to get their money back. If you paid by debit card, ask the bank to take back the money using chargeback rules. There is a limited time frame with chargeback claims so ensure you make them within 120 days of the payments being made. If you paid by credit card, ask for a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Adam French, Which? consumer rights expert, said: 'Amazon suggests this could have been a phishing scam - an example of one of the increasingly sophisticated tactics fraudsters are using to steal sensitive information such as logins and card details for a variety of purposes, including to make fraudulent purchases online. 'If you are a victim of this type of scam, you should change your login details immediately and contact the retailer to dispute this transaction and request a refund. 'If the retailer doesn't help, contact your bank or credit card provider to try and get your money back.' 
