food reviews
{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  13:15, 9 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7772097/Get-thicker-fuller-natural-looking-brows-Wunder2-Wunderbrow-Eyebrow-Gel-22-Amazon.html }
Define, fill, and thicken your brows in one easy step with the best-selling WUNDER2 WUNDERBROW. The WUNDER2 WUNDERBROW Long Lasting Eyebrow Gel is a water and smudge-proof brow gel that temporarily tints brows, lasting up to three days.  So if you don't have the time or patience to fill in your eyebrows every single morning, WUNDERBROW can help by taming even the most unruly of brows and staying put without flaking or rubbing off. Usually priced at £19.95, the award-winning WUNDERBROW Long Lasting Eyebrow Gel is now £15.57 on Amazon – that's a saving of 22 per cent (£4.38).  On Amazon, the eyebrow gel has received more than 4,400 glowing reviews and has an impressive average star rating of 3.9 out of 5. Many customers rate WUNDERBROW highly for its smudge-proof formulation and remarkable staying power.  One customer called the brow gel the 'best thing ever', while another noted how they 'couldn't be without it'. One beauty enthusiast who rated the makeup product five stars wrote: 'Not many beauty products stand up to the claims they make but this one does. It really does last. 'You can put it on in a morning and it stays all day. No smudging, no wiping off if you brush your fringe away from your head or change your top.' A couple of reviewers recommended using an angled brow brush to apply. One wrote: 'This stuff is brilliant! I love it. However, one tip - don't keep the wand out of the container too long as it will dry up quickly. 'I tend to use an angled brow brush and dip it into some of the product I've already dispensed onto a little mirror - it just means you can screw the cap in tight as soon as possible to prevent it from drying up faster than you can use it.' Unlike traditional brow pencils, pomades and powders, the WUNDERBROW gel is made from a unique formula. The permafix technology works to replicate the appearance of hair fibres to fill and sculpt the target areas, lasting up to three days. When you're ready to remove, wash the area with an oil cleanser.  It's also vegan and cruelty-free. If you usually struggle to find an eyebrow product that matches the natural shade of your brow you're in luck. WUNDERBROW is not only easy to apply, it comes in a range of colours from auburn to jet black. Amazon Music Unlimited 3 months FREE (new members only) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream three months of Amazon Music Unlimited for free in celebration of the Brit Awards (that's a saving of £19.98).  You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only for customers who are new to Amazon Music Unlimited. Offer valid till February 23 2020. View offer Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.         
