food reviews
{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  08:00, 9 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7764381/Save-30-Instant-Pot-Amazon-reduced-device-33.html }
Don't have time to cook elaborate meals? Luckily for you, Amazon has once again discounted the Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker by 33 per cent.  It is currently reduced from £89.99 to just £59.99 for 24 hours only in the mega retailer's Last Minute Christmas Deals event (running until Monday December 23). That's right, following on from Black Friday's success, the Instant Pot has been discounted again ahead of Christmas - it's last minute deal that's not to be missed. The Instant Pot has become hugely popular over the past few years thanks to its ability to effortlessly steam, warm, sauté and even bake a cake in about half the time. According to Amazon shoppers, the Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker is the best multicooker your money can buy.  The kitchen gadget has an average 4.7-star rating with more than 2,500 reviews on Amazon, which is pretty impressive.  One happy customer wrote in their review: 'I think I want to marry it. This is probably the only thing in my kitchen I use on an almost daily basis apart from my kettle, it will also save you a fortune. 'I've bought an extra three of these for family and friends. You won't regret getting one, if you do, I'll buy it off you.' Another added: 'This is the best kitchen item I have ever purchased.' With 14 pre-set cooking functions, the Instant Pot is perfect for anyone with a busy schedule and is super easy to use (despite its rather overwhelming control panel).  All the cooking programs, including slow cooking, are fully timer controlled and you can even delay your cooking time for up to 24 hours, so you can make creamy delicious slow cooker porridge overnight. When the Instant Pot has finished the cooking cycle it automatically switches to keep warm for up to ten hours so your food stays at the perfect temperature. And if you want to cook a stew – just add the ingredients, press a button and walk away. Despite newer versions with notable improvements being readily available, the Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker is still possibly the best mid-priced multicooker you can buy and makes a great entry point into electric pressure cooking. Amazon Music Unlimited 3 months FREE (new members only) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream three months of Amazon Music Unlimited for free in celebration of the Brit Awards (that's a saving of £19.98).  You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only for customers who are new to Amazon Music Unlimited. Offer valid till February 23 2020. View offer Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page.    
