{ By Jemma Carr For Mailonline   Published:  10:02, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8011889/Indian-food-influencer-wows-fans-reviews-Greggs-Toby-Carvery-Papa-Johns.html }
An Indian food influencer has delighted fans with enthusiastic reviews of Toby Carvery and Greggs after moving to Birmingham from Delhi. Shubhneet Jain, 23, who moved to the UK last year, runs blog V for Veggie and regularly posts pictures of the variety of food he tries, from home-made delicacies to fast-food burgers. But his thoughts on a £2 coffee and pizza deal from Greggs, Toby Carvery's vegetarian menu and his 'amazing dinner' at Frankie & Benny’s has wowed his 160,000 Instagram followers. Mr Jain shared a picture of his Greggs meal earlier this month with the caption: 'Three Cheese Pizza with Mocha Coffee for just £2 at Greggs. 'How you can avail it? This deal is available post 4pm. Let me know in comments if you have tried this deal or not.' Viewers took to social media to share their support. Tom Riley wrote: 'Post more Greggs content everyone in the UK loves Greggs.' Kav Kaushik wrote on Twitter that his reviews are 'fully my favourite thing ever.' In January he shared a beaming photograph of himself posing with his Toby Carvery dinner. He captioned the series of pictures detailing his multi-course feast: 'All about yesterday’s dinner at Toby Carvery. 'Me and my friends tried their vegan and vegetarian menu.' Reviewing one of his main courses, he said: 'We tried their lentil and sage lasagna. If you want to have a protein dish with some cheese then this is the dish to try.  'Lentils are a good source of protein. Made with red wine and spinach, I could never imagine this kind of dish. Very Innovative.  'To all my vegetarian friends, you must try their meat free carvery meal - that’s too filling and yummy.' He added: 'Once we were done with our starters and mains, we ordered four desserts. Had high hopes for this and yeah they nailed it with their yummy desserts.' The influencer also took to Instagram to share a grinning picture of himself in front of a variety of pasta dishes with the caption detailing his 'amazing dinner' at restaurant chain Frankie & Benny's. One fan said: 'This is the happiest anyone has ever been at a Frankie & Benny’s.' Another added: 'He’s so wholesome about Frankie & Benny’s!'  It comes after excited American tourist Mal discovered British pub chain Wetherspoons and is overwhelmed by how cheap it is. Mal filmed herself visiting The Benjamin Huntsman in Sheffield, South Yorkshire and posted it to her 8,600 followers. Footage shows her walking towards the pub as she says: 'Okay so the place that I have found which interests me the most is this place called Wetherspoons, in England, and its so freaking good - let's see what they've got.' The video shows Mal perusing the breakfast menu which she describes as 'really, really cheap' before opting for the vegetarian breakfast costing £3.65. In the wholesome TikTok clip, which has gathered more than 38,000 likes, she describes the free coffee and tea refills as 'amazing' as she makes her way over to the Lavazza station and selects a latte. 'You can use this as many times as you want', as she zooms in on her coffee filling up. 
