food reviews
{ By Wendy Douglas   Published:  14:56, 6 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/the-instant-edit/article-7750551/10-fantastically-festive-Christmas-Eve-Box-Ideas-10.html }
Christmas has lots of traditions. From singing carols to hanging stockings they all come together to create the magic we love at this time of year. And one of the more recent traditions is the Christmas Eve box.  But if this trend is new to you, or you're not sure what it entails, then we're here to make it easy (and affordable) to create the best Christmas Eve Box ever. At Matalan you'll find everything you need all under one roof, from the box to the gifts that go inside. So read on to find out what it's all about and our pick of the top 10 gifts. What is a Christmas Eve Box? Christmas Eve Boxes came to the UK in 2016 and the new tradition has grown and grown since then, becoming a must in homes everywhere. It's thought to have originated in Germany and it creates another memorable moment for families at this festive time of year.  The premise is simple; you fill a box with small gifts and treats to make Christmas Eve even more special.  The box! First you need the perfect container in which to place all those special Christmas Eve gifts and at Matalan there's a wide range, so you're sure to find the ideal box for your kids this Christmas. For a classic festive style try this chest box (below left) which features a Santa's workshop design and a metal clasp to fasten it securely. And with lots of 5 star reviews already, you'll be safe in the knowledge it's a brilliant buy. Or little ones will love this Ho Ho Ho slogan box (below right) with its sweet Father Christmas imagery. Cute and jolly, it's sturdy enough to be used year after year. But if your little Christmas elves are fans of two of the biggest movie releases of 2019 then why not opt for a themed box instead? This pretty Disney's Frozen 2 box (below left) features Anna, Elsa and Olaf while the Toy Story 4 Christmas Eve Box (below right) includes pictures of all the old gang to make their Christmas Eve even more special. What to put in a Christmas Eve Box! So you've got the box, but what do you put in it?  Feel free to go your own way with the contents of your Christmas Eve box, but we advise following the basics of this ritual. Think hot chocolate sachets, candy canes, a mince pie, some magical reindeer food (porridge oats will be fine...) some festive paper on which to write a letter to Father Christmas, a soft toy, pyjamas, cosy throw, novelty accessories and Christmas socks. Need some inspiration? Here are the top 10 Christmas Box gifts you can find at Matalan, in store, online and on the app. 1. The cutest, cosiest PJS Festive pyjamas are a must in a Christmas Eve Box so make them even more cosy and cute than normal, with these brilliant quality 3 piece sets from Matalan. Each set comes with a pyjama top and bottoms, a fleecey dressing gown (complete with adorable hood) and even a matching soft toy. And you get all these for just £14, making them incredible value this Christmas. Opt for Rudolph the reindeer or chilly North Pole penguins (above) to keep things Christmassy or what about the gorgeous lion and bear versions (below)? 2.  A soft throw to keep them toasty Fold this ultra soft fleecey throw into their Christmas Eve box and they'll be able to snuggle underneath it while watching their favourite Christmas movie. If you're lucky, they'll let you snuggle up with them too. 3. A bottle for festive drinks This jolly drinks bottle with candy cane print and striped straw (above left) is perfect for their Christmas Eve milkshake, juice or water.  And, of course, they'll be able to use it again and again throughout the Christmas period (and beyond).  4. A festive plate for festive food And no doubt they'll find a mince pie, popcorn or maybe even a mini yule log in their Christmas Eve box. So, why not add in this very jolly red Christmas tree plate for them to eat from? It'll be sure to add a festive touch to every meal. Or they can, of course, use it to leave out carrots for Rudolph and a mince pie for Santa.  5. A new Christmas stocking  What could be more exciting than opening your Christmas Eve Box to find a brand new Christmas stocking inside?  And this bright red version with multi-coloured pom poms and embroidered slogan is a great option for bringing extra joy to their Christmas. After unpacking their box and putting on their pyjamas, they can hang this by the fireplace before heading to bed and dreaming of Santa's arrival. 6. Seasonal slippers New pyjamas call for new slippers, especially as winter is here for a while. And make your mini-mes' toes even toastier with a pair of fantastically furry unicorn slipper boots (above left). So comfy and so warm, they won't want to take them off.  Or maybe they'd prefer to use the force in these Star Wars branded slippers instead (above right).  7.  A Toy Story 4 treat Whether you pack up a Toy Story Christmas Eve Box or not, no doubt your kids will love finding a treat from this classic children's film hidden inside. This cool watch featuring a picture of Unicorn and a glittery white wristband will make learning to tell the time fun. And will help them know it's time to get to bed before Santa comes down the chimney! 8. The building blocks of a happy Christmas You don't just have to put a soft cuddly toy in their Christmas Eve Box, you can include any toy or game you think they'll love. And this set of small building blocks is ideal for tiny ones who are just beginning to develop their playing skills. With 45 colourful blocks they'll have hours of fun building everything from cars to planes and everything in between.  9. A winter warmer Everyone needs a new woolly hat for winter so why not make it fun as well as functional?  Matalan's hilarious Elf Bobble Hat features a cute slogan, a festive mix of red, green and white wool, a fluffy pom pom and the best bit? The elf ears! Come on... You know you want to snap a picture of your little one in this adorable hat. PS, it comes in adult sizes too... 10. Novelty Christmas accessories  They'll love dressing up on Christmas Day with these Noel novelties. This faux braid headband is adorned with red and green pom poms and glittery bows and makes the perfect addition to their festive fancy dress. Or create pretty hairstyles with this pack of Christmas hair bobbles and clips. If you've got your own Anna, Elsa or Olaf at home then giving their Christmas Eve Box a Frozen 2 theme will ensure they remember this Christmas forever.  Matalan has a brilliant range of affordable Frozen 2 toys, gifts and clothing so filling their box is easy and won't break the bank. This Secret Stamper Diary Set (above left) includes a lockable notebook, sticker sheets, pen and stamp and ink pad all printed with imagery of their favourite icy princesses. Or warm them up with their own special mug that changes when it's filled with delicious drinks like hot chocolate and warm milk.  If no Christmas Eve Box is complete without pyjamas then make them Frozen pyjamas, with this fleecey pair guaranteed to keep them ultra cosy. And little ones will love this pretty Frozen 2 Tattoo Choker necklace; the ideal addition to their festive dressing up.  
