{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  11:26, 5 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7759221/Best-selling-products-MailOnline-readers-loved-November.html }
From homeware and kitchen devices to tech and beauty, these are the best-selling products MailOnline readers were shopping in November. The Instant Pot has skyrocketed in popularity over the past few years thanks to its ability to steam, warm, sauté and even bake a cake in about half the time.  The kitchen gadget has an average 4.7-star rating from more than 2,500 reviews on Amazon. One instant pot-obsessed reviewer wrote: 'I call this the Magic Pot - because it's awesome. You can switch it from sauté mode, to pressure cooker/hot pot etc. It cooks things really, really, well in no time.' Another added: 'I love love love the Instant pot. For working mums it's the best thing - time saving and cooks perfect meals. It even tells you if you are burning your food!!!! Great buy.' Buy now on Amazon If you didn't treat yourself to Amazon's number one best-selling Echo Dot (3rd Gen) during Black Friday sales, there's still time to snap up the device for just £24.99.  Amazon's most popular smart speaker is a voice-controlled with Alexa. Just ask for music, news, information and more. You can also call almost anyone, and control compatible smart home devices with your voice. Plus, it has a fabric design and improved speaker for richer and louder sound.  And if you're an Amazon Prime Member you'll be able to stream songs from Amazon Music, and listen to thousands of songs from its library. If you're not a Prime Member, you can sign up to a free 30-day trial to access this feature. You can also stream music from Apple Music, Spotify, TuneIn and more. Buy now on Amazon  Now sold out after extreme demand, the Amazon Beauty Advent Calendar 2019 cost just £40 and was brimming with more than £220 worth of the site's most loved hair, skin and makeup products. It's not surprising it's a sell-out. The Amazon number one best-seller contained a cult-favourite Luna Play Mini from Swedish tech beauty brand FOREO as well as several other swoon-worthy beauty products. The cleansing device is a favourite among beauty editors and influencers for its ability to remove up to 99.5 per cent of all dirt and oil, and dead skin cells, while also unclogging pores and removing makeup residue. We're already looking forward to seeing what Amazon has to offer for Christmas 2020.  Buy now on Amazon If you're looking for a more affordable option to Apple's AirPods then the ENACFIRE Wireless Headphones are worth a look - especially considering they're currently 60 per cent off on Amazon.   Future has a built-in high-quality audio chip that means you can hear your music even in less-than-ideal environments. Deep bass allows you to turn up when you want to tune out. The comfortable material fits perfectly in your ear - no adjustment, no irritation and no discomfort. One happy customer wrote: 'Didn't think I would prefer them over Apple AirPods but from the moment I used them, they just sound so much better and the battery life just goes and goes forever, really happy with this product.' Buy now on Amazon 'Struggled to get comfy at all being pregnant and was always waking up in my back with aches and pains. Since having this pillow it has made my sleepless nights disappear. It's soft and comfy. Would highly recommend.' So writes one mum-to-be about the PharMeDoc Pregnancy Pillow. It's one of the many five-star reviews the pillow has, and the general consensus amongst Amazon reviewers seems to be: it works wonders. It comes in the traditional U-shape when the extension is attached, meaning the pillow won't fall off the side of the bed and will prevent rolling in the night. It also means the pillow doesn't have to be moved if you do decide to face the other way. Buy now on Amazon Amazon Music Unlimited 3 months FREE (new members only) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream three months of Amazon Music Unlimited for free in celebration of the Brit Awards (that's a saving of £19.98).  You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only for customers who are new to Amazon Music Unlimited. Offer valid till February 23 2020. View offer Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.         
