food reviews
{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  09:53, 4 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7686205/Christmas-2019-Best-gifts-grandparents.html }
Christmas gift shopping for grandparents doesn't have to be a hard task. Ahead, we've carefully selected a handful of gifts that your nearest and dearest are bound to love. Whether you want a stocking filler or a joint Christmas present from all the grandchildren, these gifts are sure to show them how much you care. And thanks to Amazon Prime, most of these items are available with next day delivery, helping to take the stress out of any last-minute shopping. The Kindle Paperwhite is a great Christmas gift for anyone who loves reading. This Amazon device can store thousands of books to entertain and delight bookworms.  The Paperwhite is the brand's thinnest design yet and features include a waterproof exterior (so you can read at the beach, by the pool or in the bathtub), glare-free display (readable in the sun) and up to 32GB of storage.  Plus, there's never been a better time to buy as Amazon is currently offering 29 per cent off the listed retail price – that's a saving of £35. The device has 5,000 five-star reviews on Amazon. One happy customer wrote: 'Wow is all I can say! Amazon seemed to have packed everything you could possibly want into this Kindle Paperwhite! 'It's small and compact, it has light control, its waterproof, AND you can listen to Audible - all for £129.99! I was definitely sold from the word go!' Buy now on Amazon  Perfect for a record collector or vinyl lover in your life, this player is an all-in-one turntable. It comes with a belt driven turntable system that has a sleek design, all for the very reasonable price of £64.99.  The player has three speeds - 33, 45 and 78 RPM - and can play 7 ', 10' and 12' vinyl records. The VIFLYKOO Bluetooth Portable Vinyl Turntable comes with two built-in stereo speakers, allowing users to use the device on the go. One Amazon shopper who rated the record player five stars said: 'I love that record players are making a comeback this year, but what's even better? A Bluetooth record player! Connecting via Bluetooth is so easy.... This is the perfect device for any music enthusiast.' Buy now on Amazon  How about a pair of new gloves for the gardener in your life? These gardening gloves from leading gardening and agriculture retailer Burgon & Ball are comfortable, practical and pretty, boasting a beautiful wild bird and floral pattern.  The gardening gloves have ultra-soft padded fell palms for extra protection and the mesh inserts between the fingers help to regulate temperate.  They're just what any grandparent needs for garden duties.  Buy now on John Lewis   You can't beat sweets, chocolates and Christmas biscuit selections during the festive season.  If you're on a budget this duo of hand-iced grandparents jolly gingers from luxury biscuit boutique Biscuiteers is a great gift for relatives who have sweet tooth. They also make a great stocking filler. The gingerbread flavoured biscuits are not only seriously delicious (think snap of a gingerbread and the crumble of a shortbread), they are packaged in hand-illustrated gift boxes and securely wrapped to keep them safe in the post.  Buy now on Biscuiteers  This Christmas homeware gift is perfect for anyone who loves holding dinners.  Exclusive to the National Gallery, this quality 100 per cent cotton tea towel captures all the painterly quality of Bosschaert's famous A Still Life of Flowers in a Wan-Li Vase from the Gallery's collection.  It's stylish, sophisticated and costs less than a tenner.  Buy now on National Gallery  For the person who is really hard to buy for, you can't go wrong with a quality pair of slippers. With the look of a loafer and the softness of the slipper, the UGG Men's Ascot Low-Top Slippers are the brand's number one best-seller and are ideal for everyday wear.  The slippers feature a water resistant design, as well as UGG's cosy signature wool lining and rubber sole, so they can be worn both indoors and out.  They're ideal for lazy mornings at home or even casual office days, and are available in a variety of colours including classic chestnut brown and black.  Buy now on Amazon  If your relatives are curious about their background, the best-selling AncestryDNA: Genetic Testing Ethnicity is a unique Christmas gift that will help them to discover the various ethnicities and traits that make them who they are.  Six to eight weeks after sending a saliva sample back to Ancestry, they'll receive a detailed report and access specific breakdowns of places in their DNA, helping to pinpoint where ancestors might have lived and provide even more in-depth insights into their genealogy and origins. On Amazon one shopper wrote in her review: 'I bought this as a gift for my husband's birthday and it was money well spent. He has never known his father's family and this has connected him with cousins in America and opened a whole new family for him. 'This is just the start of our family tree journey and we are hoping to find some many other connections.' Buy now on Amazon  Tea drinking grandparents will love this Fred Slow Brew Sloth Tea Infuser. Simply pop a tea bag of choice in Fred's belly and hang the little guy on the side of a cup or mug filled with hot water for a perfectly brewed tea.  The Amazon best-seller is both affordable, functional and the perfect gift for any tea lover. One shopper on Amazon who rated the tea infuser five stars said: 'He is brilliant. Such a fab little man. Christmas has officially started with my first perfect stocking filler.' Another agreed adding: 'Great little novelty stocking filler.' Buy now on Amazon  A cookbook is the gift that keeps on giving. The new one from bestselling award-winning food writer Diana Henry 'From the Oven to the Table' has been dubbed 'The must-have cookbook of 2019'.  The number one Amazon best-seller in three categories including British Food and Drink, contains simple recipes that can be thrown into a dish or roasting tin for quick after-work suppers.  The dishes are vibrant and modern, focusing on grains, vegetables, meat and fish. Recipes include Chicken Thighs with Miso, Sweet Potatoes and Spring Onions and Roast Indian-spiced Vegetables with Lime-Coriander Butter.  Buy now on Amazon  Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.        
