food reviews
{ By Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  11:35, 2 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7746267/The-Witcher-receives-early-rave-reactions-critics-gush-Henry-Cavill-Netflix-fantasy-epic.html }
It's the hotly-anticipated fantasy epic that is set to be released on December 20. And The Witcher has already received early rave reviews ahead of its Netflix release later this month,  as one fan even claimed the show made 'Game Of Thrones fights look awful.' While the embargo is yet to be lifted for reviews on the show, some critics took to Twitter to express their delight about it without spoiling the show. The Witcher is an eight-episode adaptation of the bestselling medieval book series by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski.  And critics who had the chance to preview the first season were full of praise for the show's awe-inspiring choreography, as well as Henry's incredible transformation into Geralt of Rivia. Revealing their spoiler-free thoughts on Twitter, one user wrote: The Fight Scenes In #Witcher WOW Makes #GameofThrones Fights Look Awful - Watching The Witcher Season 1 This Weekend (sic)' While another added: 'Oh I will say this. The fight scenes in The Witcher make Game Of Thrones fight scenes look like two drunks fighting outside a bar.' Another critic gushed: 'The fight choreography is insane. First fight Geralt gets into is beautifully savage. The blend of swordplay and Geralt's signs is perfection.' Going on to discuss Henry, one user joked: 'So... I've never really been thirsty for Henry Cavill. I mean, I get he's handsome but just haven't. I've seen a screener of the first episode of #TheWitcher and, um, I think I'm pregnant.' While one said of the actors: '#TheWitcher's cast both lead and supporting are beyong exceptional. Amazing cast all around.' Heaping praise on the adaptation, another user added: 'Watching the screeners for @witchernetflix. I'll admit, as a huge fan of the books, I was a little worried, but @LHissrich has done a masterful job telling this story. It also helps that the cast is amazing! And Henry Cavill, just... wow.'  The Witcher centres on protagonist Geralt of Rivia, a monster hunter known as a Witcher who travels the countryside slaying terrifying beasts. But in the Netflix adaptation, the story will also examine Princess Ciri and Yennefer of Vengerberg's arcs, as the trio's intertwining destinies find them coming together in full force. Created for TV by Lauren Schmidt Hissrich, the show has already been renewed for a second season by the video-on-demand platform, who announced the good news in November. The Witcher will launch globally on Netflix on 20th December 2019. 
