{ By Rebecca Spellman For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:20, 2 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7745285/Woolworths-customer-finds-rusty-old-nail-inside-Jamie-Oliver-chicken-ready-meal.html }
A man has found a rusty nail inside a Jamie Oliver's ready-meal he purchased from Woolworths.  The shopper took to Facebook to warn other customers about purchasing food from the supermarket.  In a slamming Facebook post, the man said he'd been turned away by staff in a Victoria Woolworths and told the 'store couldn't be held responsible for incorrect packaging of the product'.  His post read: 'The store that stocks the products should be responsible for the product and if they can profit from selling it then they should be able to take responsibility for it aswell.' His pictures showed the nail in the bottom of the foil tray used to package the Jamie Oliver's pre-Marinated chicken pieces. He said he began cooking  when he spotted the the nail amongst the chicken. He said: 'I thought it was some spice or something. WRONG it was a rusty nail'.   The post on Facebook has received mixed reviews, with some users questioning the legitimacy of the man's findings.  One user wrote: 'Out of all the things that never happened....this never happened the most'  Another wrote: 'I doubt this happened, where these are packaged the whole place is stainless steel, nail isn't stainless'  Other users appeared to believe the shock finding, but questioned the man thinking he was entitled to compensation, even branding him 'a fool'.  One user said: 'What sort of compensation are you seeking? You didn't eat it, so you didn't get sick or anything...' Another asked what more the man could want besides a refund: 'If you got the refund what more are you after? A free holiday?'  Woolworths responded to the post and said: 'We're very concerned about this... and take incidents like this very seriously.'  They then asked the man to contact them so they could get more information about the incident in order to resolve it.  A spokeswoman for Woolworths told Daily Mail that they are currently in contact with the customer and are investigating the matter.  She said: 'At Woolworths, we take food safety very seriously.' She also said that Woolworths are unaware of any further reports of a similar nature at this time.    
