food reviews
{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  00:09, 29 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7736439/Unmissable-Black-Friday-2019-deals-Instant-Pot-59-99-Amazon-thats-33-off.html }
Looking to save big on the Instant Pot? Well you're in luck. Black Friday is officially here and Amazon has discounted the Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker by 33 per cent. It's currently just £59.99 - that's even cheaper than on Amazon Prime Day!  The Instant Pot has skyrocketed in popularity over the past few years thanks to its ability to steam, warm, sauté and even bake a cake in about half the time.  According to Amazon shoppers, the Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker is the best multicooker your money can buy. But we don't expect this Lightning Deal to last long.  The kitchen gadget has an average 4.7-star rating from more than 2,500 reviews on Amazon. One instant pot-obsessed reviewer wrote: 'I call this the Magic Pot - because it's awesome. You can switch it from sauté mode, to pressure cooker/hot pot etc. It cooks things really, really, well in no time.' Another added: 'I love love love the Instant pot. For working mums it's the best thing - time saving and cooks perfect meals. It even tells you if you are burning your food!!!! Great buy.'  With 14 pre-set cooking functions, the Instant Pot is perfect for anyone with a busy schedule and is super easy to use (despite its rather overwhelming control panel).  All the cooking programs, including slow cooking, are fully timer controlled and you can even delay your cooking time for up to 24 hours, so you can make creamy delicious slow cooker porridge overnight. When the Instant Pot has finished the cooking cycle it automatically switches to keep warm for up to ten hours so your food stays at the perfect temperature. And if you want to cook a stew – just add the ingredients, press a button and walk away. It's that simple. Gordon Ramsay eat your heart out! Despite newer versions with notable improvements being readily available, the Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker is still possibly the best mid-priced multicooker you can buy and makes a great entry point into electric pressure cooking. Amazon Music Unlimited 3 months FREE (new members only) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream three months of Amazon Music Unlimited for free in celebration of the Brit Awards (that's a saving of £19.98).  You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only for customers who are new to Amazon Music Unlimited. Offer valid till February 23 2020. View offer Check out our discount section for Black Friday deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page.   
