food reviews
{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  11:18, 26 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/bills/article-7711489/Could-Peddler-bigger-savings-Black-Friday.html }
Could you 'bundle buy' with other customers to drive a chunky discount? That's the idea of an online store that brands itself as a 'social marketplace.'  Peddler, which launched last year, is a platform aimed at giving shoppers reductions on the most sought after products. In theory, the more customers that want an item, the bigger the discount. According to the Dutch firm, savings can be larger than Black Friday, but only if you're willing to wait.    It works by users entering what they are looking to buy to then see how many others also want the same product.  The more people registering an interest in the same product, the more likely the website can offer it at a lower price, it claims.  It says discounts can reach up to 55 per cent in some cases, on items you potentially have had your eyes on for a while. However, customers must be prepared to wait until the deal is up to claim their discount on the group buy, which can sometimes take five days as well as wait an extra three to five working days for shipping.  It also doesn't always work - for example, there might not be enough interest from other customers to be able to drive down the price or a retailer might not be willing to get involved.    According to Peddler, which launched in 2018, the group buys allow merchants to bundle shipments and improve their warehouse operations.  It says these cost savings are then passed on to the consumer. The company started off by targeting the parent community allowing them to add which products they were interested in and find out what other parents wanted but has since expanded to the wider market.  James Klymowsky, the chief executive of Peddler, claims the site is 'quite revolutionary in retail' with the site currently attracting around 50,000 to 90,000 users on the site each month. He said: 'We are currently in the growth stage and are focusing on content creators.  'We think our footfall will increase by hundreds of thousands when we have our content in one place.'  Customers looking to get a discounted item sign up to the website and then can search Peddler for products they want or add a product they are looking to buy if it is not already on there.  Peddler then uses smart technology to aggregate the customers together who want the same thing. For example, if someone wants a Dyson fan and adds the product to the website, it will then find people across Europe who also want that item. Through the group buy option on the site, everyone who has said they want that item can usually then get a discount on that product – normally of around 15 to 20 per cent. Those not involved in the group buy will typically grab a lower discount of around 5 per cent. Both options are popular, despite the group buyers getting a bigger discount as with a 'buy now' purchase, the products are usually shipped out immediately whereas a group buy purchase is likely to take three to five working days.   Peddler aims to give customers popular products for cheap prices - with the more people claiming they want an item, the bigger the discount.  The website advertises a range of different products from electrical appliances to childrens toys. This is Money has picked five of the best discounts in the past month.  1. KidKraft Kaylee Wooden Dolls House. On Peddler, the dolls house is selling for £99.60 when bought on a group buy with 241 people claiming they 'want it'. To buy it now, and get shipping straight away, it goes up to £105.60.  When looking on PriceSpy, a price comparison website, Peddler is currently the website where the item is cheapest, when compared to retailers such as Argos where it is being sold for £139.   Black Friday is not all its cracked up to be, This is Money recently revealed, as nearly every popular item sold on the shopping event is cheaper either four weeks before or after the day.  Shoppers should conduct careful research before purchasing products this Friday, according to research by Idealo, as many items will be up to hundreds of pounds cheaper before or after the date.  For example, whilst many consumers will be looking to buy big ticket items on the day, they could save an average of £105.85 on laptops when purchasing one four weeks after the Black Friday sales have ended.  2. Netatmo Presence NOC01Smart Outdoor Security Camera with Floodlight. The security camera is currently selling for £199.99 on group buy or £202.99 for an individual purchase. At the time of writing, 786 users had said they wanted the item.   This is still much cheaper than the next cheapest price, as displayed by PriceSpy, which is on LookAgain.co.uk for £220 without delivery.  3. Tommy Hilfiger Men's Decker Quartz Wristwatch. The designer watch is currently on Peddler for £95.40 under the group buy or £100.70 when customers buy it straight away.  Meanwhile, the very same watch is selling at John Lewis for £120 - giving Peddler customers over a £20 discount when purchasing on group buy.  4. Sage The Bakery Boss Mixer Silver. This modern food processor is currently available to buy now on Peddler for £229 with free delivery. Meanwhile, PriceSpy shows that the next cheapest price is on Amazon where the mixer is £249 whilst it is also selling on John Lewis for £299.  5. Master & Dynamic MH40 Over-Ear Headphone Olive/Black Leather. These professional headphones are currently selling on Peddler for £189.95 on their buy it now option, down 46 per cent from its original price of £350.  PriceSpy shows that the headphones are cheapest on the site with the next cheapest option coming from Amazon at £225.21.   Companies whose products are sought after will be contacted by Peddler. It will then advise each firm how many people have said they want to buy their item online. The company can then decide whether they are willing to sell a certain item or items for a discounted price to a number of customers. The more people who want to buy the product, the better, as this makes it more likely that a firm will ship out the items at a discounted price. Each offer has a countdown timer which starts counting down from when the first purchase is made. This signals how long the offer will be running for. Depending on the seller and the item, it will depend on the discount given – sometimes it can be up to 55 per cent. Not any seller can join the site and there are strict terms imposed on retailers to ensure that it is fair and the customers get a good discount.  All merchants have to be approved by Peddler and must agree that everything they send will be tracked to make sure it has been sent on time. Peddler also doesn't allow retailers to extract funds from a customer's account until it has seen that the product has been shipped. If the retailer is a brand, a check is completed when registering and Peddler will ensure they have retail channels online and will look at their reviews online, such as on Trustpilot.  If this is not available, it asks for a minimum of three business references and check for valid company registration numbers and VAT numbers. Only if all of this is verified and it has spoken to the merchant on the phone, will it allow them to trade.   Peddler admits that so far they have had various results with businesses they have approached but most have responded well.  As the company grows in stature, other retailers might be more willing to get involved.   Klymowsky said: 'In the majority they respond well as they are looking for new distribution channels and are being crushed by Amazon.' One reason the merchants seem fairly keen to cooperate so far, he said, is that it saves brands on advertising and marketing costs. The model is quite similar to that of Groupon and Wowcher, however, Klymowsky is quick to point out that they are based on leftover stock and what products need to be sold, which he says doesn't encourage loyalty from the customer. Klymowsky said: 'Our community is very close-knit. In these tough times, every penny counts.  'By group buying, they are helping each other out, with little downside. As we are increasing operational efficiency for retailers, we are not squeezing their margins. Everyone wins.' Customers can currently use Peddler in the Netherlands, the UK, Ireland and is just launching in the North America and Canada. The company is in the process of updating its website and new features will include shoppers explaining why they want a product aside from just clicking on the button 'I want it'.   
