food reviews
{ By Claire Toureille For Mailonline   Published:  23:59, 25 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7723963/Rentokil-Initial-ranked-best-place-work-Britain-survey-Indeed.html }
A pest control is the best company to work for in the UK, according to data released by the world's biggest job site, Indeed.  The UK-based hygiene firm Rentokil Initial, which serves customers ranging from multinational companies to homeowners, came top of a ranking of Britain's best employers, based on tens of thousands of reviews written by the people who know them best - their staff. It ranked first for its job security and advancement, with staff praising how it promotes from within, the good work-life balance and the company's positive culture.  In reviews, staff described having high job satisfaction and doing fulfilling work.  Rentokil's success pushed 2018's winner, the global tech giant Apple, down into second place.  The findings considered a ranking of the best places to work both overall and across individual categories, as determined by reviews left by visitors to Indeed on individual company pages. Indeed used a proprietary algorithm to rank companies using a variety of factors, such as average rating, number of reviews and the history of job openings.   The list of the top 25 private sector employers features some of the UK's best known high street brands and financial institutions, alongside global tech companies.  British firms dominate the table, and account for four of the top five on the list, and six of the top 10. 1. Rentokil Initial 2. Apple 3. The Agincare Group 4. Wren Kitchens 5. Lush Cosmetics 6. E (Gas and Electricity) 7. Barclays 8. Nando's 9. Kumon 10. JPMorgan Chase 11. Siemens AG 12. PwC    13. Rolls-Royce 14. EY 15. Marks and Spencer 16. IKEA 17. Bakkavor 18. GlaxoSmithKline 19. John Lewis & Partners 20. Waitrose & Partners 21. RBS 22. Clarks 23. BAE Systems 24. Lloyds Bank 25. Arnold Clark   Apple, the only non-British company in the top five, employs around 6,500 people in the UK.  Praise for its staff perks - which include free or discounted tech - feature prominently in the reviews posted on Indeed. The third-ranked employer is The Agincare Group, one of the country's largest care groups, employing more than 3,500 staff.  It scored highly for its supportive management and for offering a good work-life balance.  Meanwhile, retailers performed strongly in the list, too. John Lewis, one of Britain's best-loved department stores, and its food division Waitrose, were both rated highly by their staff.  Both are partnerships, meaning they invite employees to become partners and share profits with them.         Bill Richards, UK managing director at global job site Indeed, commented: 'Britain's job creation boom may be easing off, but it's still very much a jobseeker's market - in which companies have to fight hard to attract the staff they need to grow. 'With private sector employers facing stiff competition for the best talent, many companies realise they need to offer more than just an attractive salary. Other factors can be just as important when it comes to wooing good people.  'Being Indeed's top-rated workplace for the private sector is a tribute to the hard work and commitment of our colleagues.' 'We focus on getting it right for our people and in turn they provide a great service to our customers. We'd be the last to claim that we always get it right but we're committed to the long term investment in our people and their progression and development. 'Our approach is to ensure that we have a culture in place where everyone can develop their career through industry-leading training and be recognised for doing so.' 'In particular, we are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive working environment for all employees by striving to be an organisation that values everyone's talents and abilities.'   'Reviews posted this year on Indeed's website by tens of thousands of employees demonstrate just how much value they put on a good work-life balance and a positive work culture - and how likely they are to research and consider these factors before deciding to apply. 'The companies in our top 25 scored consistently highly across all categories, and reviews from their staff show what a decisive difference these factors make in how they are regarded as employers.' 
