{ By Brittany Chain  and Charlie Moore For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:35, 22 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7708143/Crinitis-closures-Customers-slam-overpriced-Italian-restaurant-chain-poor-service-food.html }
The sudden closure of five Criniti's restaurants came as no surprise to customers and staff, who have complained about the chain for years.   Five of the once-popular restaurant's 13 outlets closed on Tuesday after the business went into voluntary administration, leaving staff without jobs right before Christmas.  Diners have said Criniti's tried to expand too fast and lost business by charging excessive prices for 'average' pizza and pasta.  While the closures came as a shock to industry rivals, people who have dined there said it 'didn't surprise them at all'.  Hundreds of negative online reviews litter the internet, highlighting the restaurant's 'tacky decor' and 'disgusting food'.  Scroll down for video  'When you hang a $120,000 Ducati from the ceiling and park an Aventador inside your shop just for show but have very sub standard service and still expect high prices and flashy s*** to give repeat business?' one person said. He described the business model as a 'recipe for failure'.   Since news broke of the voluntary administration, thousands of dissatisfied customers have said the closures couldn't have come soon enough.  'They were always a sad imitation of real Italian food... it was just a matter of time,' one person wrote. Another said the menu - which included a chicken schnitzel and chips for $38 - was enough to turn them off ever dining at Criniti's again.   Even staffers were suspicious that something wasn't right in the weeks before the announcement was made. One employee told Daily Mail Australia that workers felt something was not right because there had been problems paying suppliers since earlier in the year - but she did not expect to be sacked so suddenly. The worker also said there had been some recent leadership changes at the top of the business which she felt was a bad sign. Criniti's was founded in Parramatta, western Sydney in 2003 by Frank Criniti and his wife Rima The chain opened more restaurants and now has 13 across Australia: Nine in NSW, two in VIC and one each in QLD and WA In 2009 Rima and Frank divorced and he was left in charge On 19 November, 2019 the chain went into administration as it was not making enough money She said all 20 workers at her Perth store were dismissed on the spot on Tuesday. 'It came as a massive shock. I have not stopped crying since last night,' she said. 'It's weeks before Christmas and I have been left without a job.' 'Some of the staff have families and children and we have been told not to expect being paid this week,' she said.  According to TripAdvisor, most customers rate their overall experience in store as anywhere between 2.5-3.5 stars out of five.  'They were great until they got bought out and started rapidly expanding,' one woman wrote. 'Overpriced, bland, s*** Italian food. Good riddance,' another said.  But others saw the closures as a concerning move, believing it indicated Australia was in the midst of a 'mini recession.'  'Goes to show that Australia really is in a mini recession,' one person added, while another said: 'More businesses will continue to fall the way Australia is heading.'  But rival restaurateur Christian Avant, who owns burger chain Milky Lane, said he was under the impression the business was doing well. 'I've never been, but I thought they were killing it,' he said when he learned of the closures. He said the food industry is tough to stay afloat, and if he had any advice for anybody starting out it would be to 'try something else'.    Avant is willing to capitalise on the closures and publicly claimed he is interested in leasing some of the soon-to-be vacant spaces. He asked Wollongong locals for their opinions on whether the Criniti's on the south coast was in a good location and if anyone could put him in touch with the leasing agent.  'We have been looking for the perfect site in Wollongong for a long time and whilst it had been temporarily put on the backburner, if the shoe fits, it's something we will always look into.' Back in June 2013 Criniti's created a four minute video promoting the grand opening of their new store in Manly, on Sydney's northern beaches. Celebrities, including former Home and Away star Dan Ewing and singer Reece Mastin, were seen smiling and laughing while the Potbelleez performed.  The promo also featured expensive cars and snippets of the menu items on offer. Traditional Italian music played in the background as the promotional video introduced a restaurant with 'homey' vibes. But it quickly switched to a popular rap song which paved the way for the company to show off their 'modern twist' on traditional Italian dining.  Criniti's copped criticism since it began expanding for its 'tacky' attempts at appearing to be high end through featuring expensive cars and over the top decor in their restaurants. Customers have argued the owners needed to 'return to the basics' of what diners hope to receive when eating out - which is good food.  The Directors of Criniti Restaurant Group, which comprises 40 companies involved in operating the restaurants, appointed Worrells Solvency and Forensic Accountants. Administrator Graeme Beattie said the sluggish economy and low consumer spending has crippled the chain. 'Criniti's is a well-known, well-liked chain, but like all hospitality businesses, carries high overheads and is susceptible to any weakening in retail spending,' he said. Referring to the staff who will lose their jobs, he said: 'There is never a good way to deliver this kind of news and we understand the shock, disappointment and trepidation felt by Criniti's loyal staff.' The chain, founded in 2003, was managed by Frank Criniti and his wife Rima until they divorced in 2009 and he was left in charge. Rima told Daily Mail Australia: 'While I left the business almost a decade ago, I have continued to dine at Criniti's with my children, and have always loved the food and the experience. 'However, it takes more than fantastic food and hospitality to make a restaurant group a success.' Criniti's restaurants in Manly, Wollongong and Kirrawee in New South Wales and Cannington in WA and Chermside in Queensland have been closed. Restaurants in Parramatta, Wetherill Park, Castle Hill, Darling Harbour, Woolloomooloo, and Kotara in NSW and Southbank and Carlton in Victoria are open. 
