food reviews
{ By Cindy Tran for Daily Mail Australia    Published:  23:35, 21 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7712499/Finder-Roy-Morgan-reveal-best-rated-brands-including-Aldi-Dyson-Apple-Fitbit-Nutri-Ninja-KitchenAid.html }
Finder has revealed the most popular brands on the market as voted by shoppers - including home appliances, white goods, electronics, health and beauty. Australians were asked to rate the everyday products based on value, quality, safety and whether they'd recommend the brand to others. The Finder Retail Awards highlighted 69 categories after sifting through more than 34,000 reviews from 4,000 customers on purchases made in the past 24 months. And it seems shoppers can't get enough of Dyson stick vacuum cleaners, Aldi's slow cookers, Tefal air fryers, Apple laptops and computers and ghd hair straighteners. From small kitchen appliances to big-ticket electronics, these are the brands that have come out on top to become the most loved products. Samsung took out the television, microwave and top-mounted fridge categories, while Fisher & Paykel was favoured for its dryer and top-loading washing machine. Other popular brands to make the list multiple times included Breville, Philips, and KitchenAid. While many big brands such as Apple, Dyson and DeLonghi took out the lead in its categories, discount retailer Aldi has been awarded for selling the best slow cooker on the market, with prices ranging from $69.99. 'These are some of the most used items in a house, so you want to get it right the first time,' Finder's managing editor Kate Browne said. 'Many product features are now industry standard, so we wanted to uncover which brands were going above and beyond. 'Our awards are about the brands everyday Australians are using and recommending in their daily lives. We're not reviewing them out of the box or in a lab, this is how these brands hold up in real life.' Ms Browne said the awards were designed to help customers save time and get great value for money when shopping. 'Finder is committed to helping millions of Australians make more informed decisions - whether it's purchasing a TV or sourcing the best robot vacuum cleaner,' she said.  'We've done the legwork for you, so if you're in the market for new home appliances or electronics, check out which brand won your category of interest,' she said.  Finder teamed up with leading market research firm Roy Morgan to find the winners of every category. With Christmas just weeks away, Ms Brown said now is the time to ahead of the sales.  'Historically, November to January has been a great time to go shopping for bargains,' she said.  'From Black Friday through to the post-holiday period, retailers are launching huge sales over the next few months so don't pay full price for anything. 'Start your Christmas shopping list now by checking out all the winning brands and exclusive discount offers via Finder. 
