{ By Associated Press   Published:  13:40, 21 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-7710865/US-asked-probe-test-unapproved-implants-inmates.html }
Activists are calling upon the US Food and Drug Administration to investigate a program implanting unapproved opioid addiction treatment pellets into the bodies of Louisiana prisoners.  The Advocate reports advocacy group Public Citizen requested the probe in a letter Wednesday. The pilot by the Louisiana Department of Public Safety and Corrections and California-based creator BioCorRx, Inc. involved a surgical implant that released the opioid and addiction fighting drug naltrexone. Officials said the chemical would be metabolized over several months. The FDA already approved naltrexone as daily pills and monthly shots. BioCorRx said earlier this year that it was recruiting 10 prisoners with opioid addictions for its experimental Recovery program, which would involve implanting a new delivery system for naltrexone as well as behavioral therapy.   Alvin Dutruch, 39, volunteered for the program and got his implant surgically placed earlier this year. He's still in recovery and doing well.  But BioCropRx inexplicably didn't implant any more patients.   Over half of the prisoners incarcerated in the US have a substance misuse disorder, according to the Center for Prisoner Health and Human Rights. The standard addiction treatment in jails and prisons in the US is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which can be helpful in addiction treatment - but is far and away most effective when given in conjunction with medication.  But, even if they had been in recovery programs that included medically-assisted therapy (MAT) prior to their arrests, prisoners are not usually given access to drugs like buprenorphine or naltrexone.  BioCorRx purportedly  to change that - but their prisoner program is skipping some safety and efficacy steps.  The company is developing two 'sustained release' versions of naltrexone.   Naltrexone itself is already FDA approved to treat both alcohol and drug addiction.  But BioCorRx's implant is a biodegradable pellet full of the addiction treatment, to be released over the course of three or four months, according to Houma Today, which has to be surgically implanted into a person's abdomen. The only person who has undergone the procedure is Alvin.  Alvin's addiction began with a crash. He was prescribed a narcotic painkiller after a car accident 18 years ago. When he ran out of the drugs and his doctors abruptly stopped prescribing them, Alvin found ways to get the same fix without physician involvement.  'Irrational thinking started kicking in,' he told DailyMail.com in an interview in May.  Alvin stole a prescription pad and started writing his own orders for drugs.  That eventually landed him in jail. From there, the next two decades devolved into heroin use, incarcerations, recovery and relapse.  His latest run-in with the law landed Alvin in Angola with a 12-year sentence.  'I was lying in my rack, and I had a breakdown, thinking, "how the hell did I get here, how'd my life allow my life to get to this point that I'd been doing [drugs] so long I had lost my identity,' Alvin said.  'I made the decision that I'm done with it.'  Alvin got involved in a program called 're-entry,' which he described as strictly regimented. He started learning skills, and getting clean.  Doing so was easier on the inside, where drugs weren't readily available.  He got on track for release, but was worried what would happen when he was released, the cravings kicked in, and opioids might be more attainable.  'I [had] already tried everything else...cravings for me is what brings me down each time,' Alvin said.  But while still at Angola he heard about BioCorRx's new program and partnership with the Louisiana Department of Corrections. They'd make a one-inch incision and implant a device to slowly, steadily release the same compound in naltrexone, a medication that is already approved by the FDA for opioid addiction treatment.  Alvin wouldn't need to keep up with the prescription and stick to the prescribed dosage. The implant would do all that for him while he worked his way through BioCorRx's behavioral therapy program.    When he was approved, 'I was super excited, thinking this might be exactly what I need,' Alvin said.  But the surgically implanted delivery system hadn't been approved by the FDA, and it had never been tested in another person.  The implant is not only unapproved, it's still in its preclinical  phase, according to the company's website. In 2018, one of its delivery systems was green-lighted to go through an accelerated approval process.  But preclinical testing is the stage before something is tested in humans - let alone prisoners, who live in high-risk environments in communities notorious for ignoring health complaints.  'I'm not against trying to improve drug treatment for prisoners - it's a high-risk group and it's important to come up with better methods to keep them clean,' New York University bioethicist Dr Arthur Caplan told DailyMail.com in a recent interview.  'But why the company doesn't set this up as a research project, I don't understand.'   BioCorRx's justification for the prisoner program is two-fold: it's completely voluntary and comes at no cost to the federal prison system.  In a press release about the program, it argues that it costs an average of $100 a day to keep a person in prison.  BioCorRx president and director Brady Granier said in a statement that 'this type of therapy has been used successfully for decades in many modern countries and I am tremendously grateful for the opportunity to finally implement the program in Louisiana.'  But it has not been tested, much less approved, in the US.    Alvin would be patient zero.  That suited Alvin just fine, and he went ahead with the procedure, which was offered to him for free.  Speaking to DailyMail.com 16 days after the operation and subsequent to his release from prison, Alvin said: 'I'm clean the longest I've been clean after release.  'It's the first time in 18 years I've had zero cravings. Heroin is like, nonchalant. Like, "heroin, what?"'  The Advocate reports that Alvin is still doing well.  But BioCorRx didn't implant any more prisoners. The program was discontinued.  And whether or not it worked isn't really the issue for Public Citizen or the doctors, ethicists and prisoner advocates that signed its letter to the FDA.  BioCorRx has adamantly maintained that its program is not a clinical trial.  The company's contract with the Louisiana DOC says that one of the partnership's aims is to 'demonstrate the effectiveness of the BioCorRx Recover program,' according to documents obtained by The Advocate.  Public Citizen argues that that goal describes a clinical trial.  'That language couldn’t be clearer,' director of Public Citizen's Health Research Group, Dr Michael Carome, told The Advocate.  'That’s going beyond clinical care. They’re doing this to collect an assessment of the benefits of this implant.'  He and the advocacy group argue that by implanting Alvin, BioCorRx skipped past necessary safety and ethics reviews and took advantage of his incarceration.   BioCorRx had not responded to DailyMail.com's request for comment at the time of publication.     
