food reviews
{ By Emilia Mazza For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  03:49, 21 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7708787/Shoppers-raving-digital-scales-sale-9-Amazon-perfect-home-cooks-dieters-counting-calories.html }
Shoppers with a keen eye for a bargain are going wild for a set of digital kitchen scales now on sale for an affordable $9 from $18. The Etekcity Kitchen Weight Scale, an Amazon bestseller, is the perfect appliance for home cooks who require accurate measurements or dieters counting calories.  The stainless steel device measures in pounds, ounces, grams, millilitres and fluid ounces and there is also a 'tare' function to deduct the weight of any plate or bowl. Thousands who've bought the device on Amazon, where it currently boasts a 53 per cent price drop, have raved about its accuracy with one calling it 'beautifully precise'. What makes these scales such a hit is its slimline design, one which allows it to conveniently fit into a drawer when not in use. Additionally, the brushed stainless steel finish makes it a stylish addition to any kitchen bench or countertop. Currently, the Etekcity scales hold a four-out-of-five star rating on Amazon as well as a staggering 9,566 reviews.  One person who recently review their purchase on the site said for the 'price you can't beat it'. 'If you cook and bake a lot like we do, the scale helps achieve an accurate measurement,' they said. 'It's super convenient when a recipe calls for an ingredient in grams and you don't have the tools to measure, this scale is simple to use and accurate.' Another, who awarded the scales five-out-of-five stars, called it a 'beautiful, precise, and accurate kitchen scale'. 'I just recently received this beautiful and most of all easy to use kitchen scale by Etekcity! This scale was extremely accurate and precise.' In addition to the many positive reviews, there were some who said they didn't think the scales performed as well as they'd hoped. 'The scale is almost useless for measuring out spices and yeast and other items which are in the low single digits of grams,' said one. While another added: It is designed to do one thing, weigh small amounts of food. It is aesthetically designed well.  'And that is as far as it goes in delivering on its intended function.'      
