food reviews
{ By Nicole Abebe For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:45, 20 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7703731/Why-wait-Black-Friday-best-tech-deals-Amazon-right-now.html }
Black Friday doesn't officially start until November 29, but ahead of the big day many retailers are releasing early deals. In fact, Amazon is kicking off the shopping extravaganza a whole week early this year, with a 'deals week' running from this Friday 22. But you don't even have to wait until then. The site already has hundreds of great deals on everything from vacuum cleaners and toothbrushes to LED TVs and wireless headphones. So if you want to get ahead of the shopping madness it might be worth picking up a deal now. Here, we've picked eight of the best offers currently available on tech across the site.  Insignia 24-inch HD Smart LED TV, $99.99 (33% off) You can save more than $50 on this HD Insignia TV right. The 24-inch smart screen comes equipped with Fire TV built-in as well as voice remote powered with Alexa. This smart TV lets you enjoy high-definition pictures with colors appearing bolder and richer. Amazon Fire TV brings over 500,000 movies and TV shows right to your home screen. You can stream from platforms such as Disney +, Netflix, HBO, YouTube and Prime Video. And if you have other smart devices in your home, you can control the outlets using only your voice and your Alexa remote. CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON Etekcity Food Digital Scale, $8.95 (53% off) This lightweight stainless steel scale could save you time in the kitchen - and today it's a whopping 53 per cent off. The slim design can hold up to 11 pounds of weight and promises to deliver accurate results. Smart technology allows you to weigh smaller items in a bowl without weighing the bowl itself. One reviewer who was impressed with the scales wrote: 'It has everything you need in a kitchen scale. Surprising small without losing functionality. I checked the accuracy with a calibrated 50 gram weight, and it was spot on.' CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON Onson Cordless Vacuum Cleaner, $81.21 (42% off) Currently 42 per cent off on Amazon, Onson's cordless vacuum cleaner is on sale for jut $81.21. The lightweight vacuum cleaner comes with two different modes, standard and MAX, and can last anywhere between 20 and 30 minutes on a single charge. The vacuum comes with a built-in light and two different roller brushes, which are useful for locating where exactly you need to clean and moving from carpet to hardwood floors. CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON Aquasonic DUO Electric Toothbrushes, $41.60 (39% off) The original $68.53 retail price of this Aquasonic DUO has been slashed by a hefty 39 per cent. The set comes with one satin white and one satin black handle, ten brush heads and two travel cases. The Auqasonic delivers 40,000 vibrations per minute making it a top contender in the electric toothbrush industry. This set features three unique modes and a smart vibration timer built-in, which lets you know when to move on to brush another area of your mouth.  CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON Letsfit Wireless Earbuds, $25.50 (36% off)     The wireless earbuds have gained an admirable average 4.7 out of 5 stars rating and hundreds of 5-star reviews on Amazon. They come with the latest Bluetooth 5.0 technology that allow you to stay connected for longer even when your battery is running low. With a single charge, the earbuds give you over four hours of playtime and 20 extra charges with the portable charging case. One reviewer wrote: 'I was in sticker shock when my daughter said she wanted ear pods for her birthday (at the Apple version.) I purchased these in the hope that they would be comparable in sound and comfort and boy was I surprised at how much she really is enjoying them! 'She let me try them with my android phone the other day and they worked great!! The sound is clear and you don't have to turn the volume up high to hear them. They are also comfortable too.' CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON    JBL Portable Boombox, $349.95 (30% off)   You can save up to $150 right now on this portable boombox from JBL. The boombox is made to withstand even the wildest of parties and is completely waterproof. It available in three colours, including camouflage, black and forest green, and features Bluetooth technology. You can wirelessly connect up to two smartphones to the speaker and take turns playing your own music. A built in rechargeable Li-ion battery keeps the boombox fully charged up to 24 hours and can also charge other devices without interrupting your music. One enthusiastic reviewer wrote: 'Rugged, loud, easy to carry, pairs to other JBL speakers, floats in water. Perfect party speaker. I love it!' CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON   Amarey Robot Vacuum Cleaner, $152.99 (24% off) You can get your hands on this cool Robot Vacuum Cleaner for just $152.99 right now - that's $47 cheaper than the original retail price. The vacuum can navigate and clean your entire room using four different cleaning modes. They include automatical, spot, max vacuum and edge cleaning. The smart technology in this vacuum allows you to schedule when you want the robot to start cleaning even when you're not at home. The robot cleaner is super quiet and contains 1400PA strong suction, with a main brush and two side brushes. The vacuum works on different surfaces, including wooden floors, tiles and carpets. A cool feature about this device is that once the battery runs low your smart vacuum will automatically return itself to the charging dock. CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON  DailyMail.com may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page.  
