{ By Corinna Burton For Mailonline   Published:  15:42, 20 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7706203/Why-Shark-Upright-Vacuum-Cleaner-home-purchase.html }
When it comes to entertaining guests over Christmas, we all like to make sure our homes are clean and tidy.  With friends popping round to visit for gift exchanges, having festive drinks or enjoying Christmas party food, your home will probably need a good hoover before and after. The last thing you want is pet hair sticking to clothes or party food crumbs trodden into your carpet. If your vacuum cleaner is on its way out or you're looking to upgrade your current device, the Shark NZ801UKT Vacuum Cleaner could be an excellent choice. Usually priced at £349, it is available for just £199 on Amazon right now. Thanks to its 'Lift Away Technology', this stylish and lightweight vacuum cleaner converts into a handheld vacuum for deep cleaning tricky areas like stairs, ceilings and under the bed and sofa, without loss of suction.  The Shark vacuum has notched up an impressive average 4.7 out of five-star rating on Amazon, with many customers leaving overwhelmingly positive reviews.   One wrote: 'Quite simply the BEST most effective vacuum I have ever owned. Love the headlights! And it's SO flexible, twisting round corners and with the ability to lay flat to get right beneath sideboards etc... and genuine edge to edge cleaning.  'Fabulous suction and with a button on handle to switch between laminate/hard floors and carpet. Fantastic product.'  The Shark NZ801UKT Vacuum Cleaner can tackle a variety of floor surfaces and is also suitable for pet owners, as it easily removes pet hair from upholstery and stairs. Speaking of hair, the Shark NZ801UKT vacuum cleaner also has an Anti Hair Wrap feature, which actively removes hair from the bristle brush-roll. The brush-roll will also actively pull in debris and lift dust from hard floors. Shark’s Anti-Allergen Complete Seal is designed to capture and trap up to 99.9 per cent of dust and allergens inside the vacuum, so you can be at peace of mind about breathing any nasties in. The machine also comes with three handy attachments so you can get the best cleaning results. The LED headlights are a great way to make sure you don't miss any areas, and will also help when trying to clean under the bed or in other dark areas of your home. Amazon Music Unlimited 3 months FREE (new members only) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream three months of Amazon Music Unlimited for free in celebration of the Brit Awards (that's a saving of £19.98).  You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only for customers who are new to Amazon Music Unlimited. Offer valid till February 23 2020. View offer Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page. 
