food reviews
{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  10:02, 20 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-7698555/The-great-mince-pie-taste-test-Femail-tries-supermarkets-range-festive-pastries.html }
Supermarket shelves are groaning with festive produce, but when it comes to sweet treats finding the perfect mince pie is at the top of everyone's Christmas list.  From ultra luxury all-butter pies, to the even-more indulgent ones topped with buttercream and brandy, or sloe gin and port, how can you tell the tastiest pies from the festive flops? This year, Femail has tasted 24 of the pastries on offer from Britain's most popular supermarkets in a completely blind taste test - with reporters describing the sweet treats as everything from 'tastes like antibiotics' to 'a powerful medley of winter spices zings'.    So can you guess which one boasted 'a lovely balance of flavours with a gorgeously crumbly crust' and which one left a bitter taste in the mouth?  Read on to discover the winners and losers of our great mince pie taste test... CO-OP Free From Mince Pies  Pack of four, £2  Appearance-wise, my mince pie didn't look like it was particularly special - it was relatively plain, with a dusting of sugar and a traditional wavy edge. But I was pleasantly surprised.  The filling was deliciously sweet without being too sickly and generously fruity - and crucially there was ample of it.  The pastry wasn't too thick which is my usual gripe with shop-bought pies; in fact it was pretty crunchy and moreish. I'd definitely be inclined to buy a pack of these! It was everything I need in a mince pie that isn't fresh out of the oven. I am VERY impressed that this is gluten free, as the pastry was so delicious.  I'd be even more inclined to buy them now, as it means I can scoff more without feeling the bloat quite as much.  And £2 is a very reasonable price point seeing as vegan and gluten free products are normally a bit more expensive. Well done Co-op!  - Hayley Richardson ASDA Extra Special All-Butter Crumble Mince Pies  Pack of six, £2 This is one of the best mince pies I’ve ever tasted. After biting through the crumbly biscuit topping, a powerful medley of winter spices zings across your tongue.  It also tasted quite boozy, which helped. I’m also not normally a fan of cold mince pies, but could easily polish off another two or three of these. I was surprised these were only £2, bargain!   - Jack Elsom   CO-OP Luxury Mince Pies  Pack of six, £2   This was certainly the sweet treat I needed to pull me through the afternoon slump.  The rich filling was perfectly complemented by the delicious, slightly crumbly pasty. While it may not have been the best mince pie I have ever tasted it would certainly leave me reaching for another! I would have expected a luxury mince pie due to the pretty cut-out star pattern on the top of the pie which gave it a touch of class. I'd happily pay £2 for a box of six of those bad boys, great value for money. - Charlotte Dean Tesco Finest All Butter Pastry Mini Mince Pies  Pack of 12 , £2 My mini mince pie showed that size certainly doesn't matter, as it proved to be a bite-sized delight.  The pastry was floury, buttery and sweet, while the filling wasn't overpowering.  I did find it slightly dry, but even as mince pie cynic this is something I would definitely have after my Christmas roast  - Jessica Rach Morrisons All Butter Deep Filled Mince Pies  Pack of six, £2  I really liked this mince pie - the pastry was very delicate, a little dry, but still tasty. The mincemeat had a nice tangy apple flavour to it - giving it a kick. While the crusty edge of the pastry and icing powder finished it off well. The only thing which would have made it better was having it warm with some custard. - Sarah Finley ASDA Luxury Extra Special Mince Pies  Pack of six, £1.39  Delicious! A lovely balance of flavours with a gorgeously crumbly crust.  There is plenty of filling (often a concern with mince pies) and is a substantial size.  My only criticism would be that it's maybe a touch too sweet - although I have a wicked sweet tooth so it doesn't bother me! - Stephanie Linning ALDI,  Specially Selected Crumble Topped Mince Pies - Salted Caramel  Pack of six, £1.79 Other than the pasty to filling ration being slightly off, the pie was delicious. It was perfectly sweet without being too rich (a mistake of too many mince pies these days). Plenty of fruit coming through in the flavour too. - Connor Boyd ALDI, Specially Selected Sloe Gin Mince Tarts  Pack of six, £2.49 I was sceptical of swapping a classic mince pie for a festive tart, but I was pleasantly surprised by the taste. It reminded me slightly of a Bakewell tart and had a crispier texture than an ordinary mince pie. Overall I think the tart could be a delightful treat for sharing at gatherings with friends and family throughout Christmas. Might go to Aldi to get more! - Latoya Gayle SAINSBURY'S, Taste the Difference All Butter Mince Pies  Pack of six, £2.00  This was a really tasty one. The pie crumbled quite easily in my fingers, but made up for it with its spice and sweet and sour accent.   I've heard that the Sainsbury's mince pies are usually good, so this does not come as such a surprise. - Claire Toureille ASDA, Luxury Sloe Gin Mince Pies  Pack of six, £2  This pie was light, fluffy and had really nice flavours.  I only wish it had a little more filling because it was a bit sparse.  I thought it looked much more expensive so the price, and to find out that they're from Asda is a shocker!  I do think it’s worth the money for sure. They tasted and looked more than £2.  - Lisa Quick WAITROSE Plum, Honey and Ginger Mince Pies Pack of four, £2  What a time of year. Christmas pudding, roast turkey, Brussels sprouts. All such delicious and enticing items. But one emerges from the pack as the most enjoyable festive food item, the humble mince pie. It is a big decision choosing a mince pie. Do you go for intriguing take on the classic? Or stick with the original tried and tested formula. This flavoursome mince pie had an orangey twang to it and I thoroughly enjoyed its fruitiness. The pastry, although satisfying, left my mouth feeling a little dry and could have done with being slightly more buttery. But I would rate this as a solid pie, albeit not completely mind-blowing. I'm not surprised it's from Waitrose, I love Waitrose.  But foolish of me to think it orange when it's actually plum! - James Wood ASDA Mince Pies Pack of six, 87p  The filling is nice and has a little bit of tartness to it. The pastry is also nice but could have been a little more buttery. The sugar sprinkled on the top was a welcome addition but the top was a little bit too crumbly for me. What I liked about it, was that you didn't get that dry mouth feeling you can sometimes get after eating a mince pie.  I think I knew they were a cheaper version because of the crust, but I think they are well worth the 87p! - Terri-Ann Williams ALDI, All Butter Classic Mince Pies Pack of Six, £1.35  Really liked the look of this pie as there is a cute little star on top of it, which makes you feel extra festive. There was quite a lot of pastry on this one and the lid was pretty thick. The filling was chunky though which made it quite a chunky mince pie. The filling was also quite sweet and I would have preferred it to be a little tarter.   Only £1.35? Bargain! - Terri-Ann Williams  LIDL, Deluxe Luxury Mince Pies  Pack of six, £1.35  This is your bang average no-frills mince pie and it did the job. A sweet filling with a cute star design on the top, it was tasty and what one would expect a supermarket mince pie to look like. I thought the pastry could have been a little more crispier as the texture was rather stodgy. Not one to wheel out on special occasions but a nice festive snack nonetheless. - Sophie Law    ALDI, Deep-filled Mince Pies  Pack of six, 85p Biting into this was like taking a mouthful of cardboard. The pastry is more concrete than crumbly and has very little flavour other than an undertone of what tastes like margarine. There’s a smear of filing inside that has a bit more flavour in that it’s sweet, but there’s so little of it that it’s hard to tell. I’m not surprised that they’re at the cheap end of the scale, but deep-fill is clearly false advertising. A Christmas abomination! - Siofra Brennan ASDA: Extra Special Caramel Crumble Pies Pack of six, £2    This is not a traditional mince pie. Instead it has a soft biscuit base, with caramel running through it and then chocolate rocks and icing sugar as a topping.  It's just not my cup of tea, it's far too sweet and the base was quite mushy leaving me with an unpleasant feeling on my tongue.   - Joe Middleton ICELAND Luxury, Crumble Topped Mince Pies Pack of six, £1.89. Currently 2 for £3  Ordinarily, any mince pie gets me in the festive mood. But this one just didn’t have the kick required. There was no burst of fruitiness or warm feeling from the spices. Instead I was put off by the peculiar taste of the pastry, which seemed to almost entirely overwhelm the filling. The mincemeat should be king here, not the pastry. - James Wood CO-OP, Brandy and Buttercream Mince Pies  Pack of four, £2  This was very sweet, and somewhat reminded me of the antibiotics I used to take as a child. Upon the first bite, I didn’t feel the spices, only the sugar. The custard made it very moist as well, which is not what I expected of a mince pie. After the second bite you could discern a taste of orange, but still drowned by all the sugar. While those with a sweet tooth might enjoy it, this taste more like a very sugary treat rather than a traditional mince pie. - Claire Toureille ICELAND, Luxury Mince Pies Pack of Six,  £1.89 (currently 2 for £3) The pastry in this mince pie steals the show, and not a very impressive show at that. It was an arid, crumbling monstrosity which sadly clung to the teeth and the palate. I ate this with a fork and it fell apart with the very first prong into its feeble exterior, exposing the already quite blatant structural deficiencies. The filling – despite being heated in the microwave – lacked any punch, it was woefully bereft of spice and had no acidity. - Ross Ibbetson   Sainsbury's Rum Pineapple & Coconut Mince Pies, Taste the Difference  Pack of four, £2  For me, they’ve made a total mess of this Christmas favourite.  The nut toppings are a complete waste of tasteless time.  The texture is too sticky, and finally there is lingering aftertaste of marzipan- which quite frankly is a sickly disaster.  - Jonathan Trillwood M&S Collection All Butter Mince Pies Pack of six, £2.50 The mince pie is fine – I'm not a huge fan of it as I think it tastes a little dusty, and the pastry is powdery, making it feel a little dry in my mouth.  However, it does have a really juicy and moist mince filling, with a delicious boozy taste and scent.  I'm not sure I could enjoy more than one.  I'm surprised this is from M&S, I would have expected something a little more 'in sync', rather than such a dry pastry and such a moist filling, especially because it's not at the lower end of the price range - Harriet Johnston  WAITROSE All Butter Mince Pies  Pack of six, £2.50  As a mince pie addict it's difficult to find one I don't like but I was a tad disappointed with the pastry to filling ratio on these ones, and the case was a bit hard and flaky. The filing tasted really good and you could definitely taste the brandy. Overall I would give these a three purely because there wasn't enough filing and it was mainly the pastry. I honestly expected more of Waitrose, very sad (Did not feel very all butter when the pastry was flying all over my desk!)  - Monica Greep ALDI, Specially Selected Crumble Topped Mince Pies - Black Forest   It was nice but the topping looked a bit bizarre. There were also berries in it – very sweet. On that, I’m going to guess it’s more like a cut price one? Wasn’t hit by exquisite flavours – just sugar. - Luke Andrews ASDA Extra Special Brandy and Buttercream Mince Pies Pack of six, £2 I admire the attempt to do something different but it doesn't quite come off here. It's hard to fault the main part of the pie: a nice firm crust that keeps the contents together, and a filling that does what you'd expect.  But it's paired with a sugary bonus which tastes fine as far as it goes but doesn't really complement the rest of the pie. I found myself eating the top part away, then enjoying the rest of the pie. Tasted fine, but the whole added up to a bit less than the sum of its parts.  Knowing they're from Asda doesn't change my opinion,  but that's actually not too bad a price.  - Tim Stickings  
