{ By Alice Murphy For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  22:15, 19 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7700279/This-47-five-ingredient-foundation-BareMinerals-9-000-five-star-reviews.html }
A natural mineral foundation made with just five 'clean' ingredients has racked up a staggering 9,000 five-star reviews - with users claiming it makes their face look luminous and years younger. The Original Foundation Broad Spectrum SPF 15, from California-based beauty brand BareMinerals, promises to brighten and hydrate skin with buildable coverage from sheer to full, making it suitable for day and night. Made with active ingredients including zinc and titanium dioxide which protect skin against the sun's harmful rays, the loose powder foundation is available from Mecca online for $47. Beauty reviewers said the powder conceals redness while still giving a natural, healthy glow, with a landslide 97 percent confirming they would recommend the foundation to a friend. Along with UV-blocking zinc and titanium dioxide, the powder also contains bismuth oxychloride, a natural substitute for talc, mica, a naturally occurring mineral dust, and iron oxide, a naturally occurring compound that gives foundation its colour.  The brand has been endorsed by a string of celebrities, including clean beauty advocate Hailey Bieber, who fronted a BareMinerals campaign in 2018. 'This foundation helps me get out the door quicker. Perfect coverage and adds a natural glow to my skin!' one woman wrote on Ulta Beauty's review page.  Another revealed she 'didn't expect it to be this good', saying: 'I am in love! The mineral foundation is easy to apply, and gives perfect light to medium coverage - hiding redness while still giving a beautiful glow.' One reviewer said she suffered from 'horrible' acne and oily skin for years before discovering the brand's loose powder foundation. 'I've never had a problem since I switched. It seems pricey, but each jar lasts for a long time and since it improves your skin so much, I use way less now than I did when I first started!' she said. Australian makeup artist Briony Kennedy, who is the founder of homegrown clean beauty brand Adorn Cosmetics, said natural mineral foundations are best applied with a kabuki brush for light coverage, and a denser brush for a heavier finish. 'The teeniest tiniest amount is all you need, it's up to you how heavy you want to make the coverage,' she previously told Daily Mail Australia. 'If you feel like it's creasing it means you've put too much on, less is more, don't go too heavy handed with the product.' 
