food reviews
{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  18:02, 18 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7697871/Early-Black-Friday-deals-Amazon-offering-50-best-selling-Philips-air-fryer.html }
One of Amazon's best-selling air fryers is enjoying a major discount right now. Air fryers allow you to feast on fried food with less guilt, and right now (thanks to early Black Friday deals) you can purchase the Philips Air Fryer for less than £100. The Philips HD9220/20 Air Fryer with Rapid Air Technology normally costs £200. But today, you can take advantage of Amazon's 50 per cent off deal. The handy kitchen appliance from Philips cooks, fries, bakes and grills, and it features multiple built-in smart programs that remove all the guesswork from cooking. The fryer helps to create great tasting meals with 80 per cent less fat in comparison to a traditional deep fat fryer. It's not surprising that over seven million units have sold worldwide. The fryer is effectively a small fan oven on your kitchen countertop. The integrated timer and temperature control allows you to pre-set cooking times of up to 30 minutes, and also pre-set the best cooking temperature for your food up to 200 degrees. With more than 2,700 reviews on Amazon, the sleek and compact Philips air fryer has a sizzling 4.6-star average rating out of 5. Many people note its ease of use and others note its quality of cooking. One shopper called it their 'best buy on Amazon so far' and added that all 'dishes were cooked to perfection'. Another buyer who awarded the Philips air fryer five stars wrote: 'This HD9240 is a wonderful addition to our kitchen. 'No air fryer will give you the true deep fried taste and texture that's a given so if you want that buy a deep fat fryer. But for a small compromise it does actually do a good job, quite close to fried without the fat.' This is a great deal to take advantage of ahead of Black Friday – we could not find the Philips air fryer cheaper anywhere else. Amazon Music Unlimited 3 months FREE (new members only) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream three months of Amazon Music Unlimited for free in celebration of the Brit Awards (that's a saving of £19.98).  You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only for customers who are new to Amazon Music Unlimited. Offer valid till February 23 2020. View offer Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.          
