{ By Mike Dickson for the Daily Mail    Published:  17:46, 18 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/tennis/article-7698809/Gerard-Pique-bites-Davis-Cup-format-criticised-Twitter.html }
Gerard Pique was quick to defend his new Davis Cup finals production after some inevitable teething issues struck on the opening day of the new ventures. The Barcelona superstar hit back on Twitter after Belgium's former French Open semi-finalist Filip Dewulf, now a journalist, posted a picture of a largely empty stadium at the Caja Magica (Magic Box) prior to his country's opening group match on Monday against Colombia. Displaying a photo of much healthier crowds once the match had started, the footballer responded: 'It's easy to take a picture before the players have arrived on court and criticise. The true atmosphere during the game is this one.' He later modified the tweet to take a softer line, but the brief exchange was indicative of the sensitivity felt by his company Kosmos as it launches the event.  It also showed the hostility of some commentators who are deeply sceptical about the new format of a much cherished competition, which is now featuring 18 nations in one place over one week. Not everything was to run smoothly on day one. The curiously-timed opening ceremony featuring a parade of the teams - on a Monday afternoon well before the start of play - took place before acres of empty seats on the main stadium. There were issues with the online scoring system and the Colombia teamsheet did not arrive to the Belgians until less than 30 minutes before the match, when it was meant to be revealed an hour prior to the start. However, front of house things soon improved. For a Monday afternoon there were fairly decent crowds and atmospheres in the three arenas housing the opening contests.  At the start of play there was a 200 metre long queue outside the main ticket office. Great Britain do not play until Wednesday when they take on Holland in their group opener. Captain Leon Smith gave his approval to Pique's project based on what the squad had encountered at their event since their arrival last Wednesday. Their schedule has included a team outing to the Bernabeu stadium. 'It's been really positive,' he said. 'They've invested a lot of money to make sure the venue, facilities, transport, food, the practice courts are of a very high quality.  'If you listen to most of the players' feedback, I'm sure you're hearing it's very positive. They're happy to be here, they're making the players feel very welcome.' While it is early days the internal reviews of the event that go around among the players in the locker room will be important for its longer term prospects. 
