{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  02:04, 17 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7694003/Woking-Pizza-Express-flooded-witty-reviews-wake-Prince-Andrew-interview.html }
Woking's Pizza Express is being bombarded with fake reviews after Prince Andrew claimed he visited the branch during his bombshell interview last night.  The Duke of York said that he could not have had sex with Virginia Roberts - who claims she slept with Andrew in 2001 - because he was out with his daughter at the pizzeria. A series of seemingly mocking fake reviews have now been left for the restaurant on TripAdvisor and elsewhere, poking fun at the Duke for his performance during the interview. One said: 'I have no recollection of ever visiting this restaurant or ever having heard of pizzas. Or Woking.  'If I did visit the place it must be because I am so honourable. But I stress, I never went here. Unless you have a photo of me being here, in which case I have.'  Pizza Express, meanwhile, Tweeted: '9:00 pm - Switch off computer. 10:00 pm - 120 messages on work WhatsApp group telling you to ''check Twitter now''.'  The BBC's Emily Maitlis put Mrs Roberts' claims Andrew, telling him she says they danced together in Tramp Nightclub in London where he bought her drinks before going on to have sex in Ghislaine Maxwell's Belgravia house.  Andrew insisted 'it didn't happen', claiming that he does not drink, he does not think he had ever bought a drink in Tramps, and he could not have danced with the then teenager at Tramp because on that day - March 10 - he had taken his daughter Beatrice to a Pizza Express in Woking for a party.  Another review gave the Pizza Express four stars, saying: 'I stuffed a really good crust here. If I was capable of sweating I would've been dripping, but fortunately I'm not. Particularly liked that there's a reduced price menu for children.' One user, from Colchester, said: 'I enjoyed a meal here with my family back on the 10th of March 2001. It was a memorable meal as I can still remember the exact date and occasion, some 18 years on. The American Hot was lovely.' A user from London said the pizza there was 'fantastic' but he was 'disturbed' by the presence of a 'weird bloke who looked like Prince Andrew' with some young girls.   'It could not be HRH as he was sweating,' the review continued, seemingly referencing one point in Andrew's interview when he said a medical condition left him unable to sweat. The Duke used this as evidence against Mrs Roberts' claim that they danced together, because she claimed he had been 'sweating profusely'.  He has always furiously rejected the allegation by Ms Roberts that they ever had sex, which she claims happened in 2001.   Another review said: 'Wonderful staff, great food, no sweat! But I have no recollection of ever being there so I don't know why I just said that.'  When asked why he remembers going to the Woking Pizza Express so specifically, he said: 'Because going to Pizza Express in Woking is an unusual thing for me to do, a very unusual thing for me to do.  'I've never been…I've only been to Woking a couple of times and I remember it weirdly distinctly. As soon as somebody reminded me of it, I went 'oh yes, I remember that'. But I have no recollection of ever meeting or being in the company or the presence.' 
