{ By Chris Foy for the Daily Mail    Published:  22:31, 15 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7691487/Sam-Underhill-moves-Japan-heartache-cooking-walking-dogs-doing-laundry.html }
His silver medal is on display at his parents' house and Sam Underhill is returning to normality — cooking, dog-walking, doing the laundry... and playing for Bath. Two weeks on from his starting role in the World Cup final, the England flanker will be back on club duty on Saturday, in a European Champions Cup encounter with Ulster at the Rec. He is alert to the threat of a comedown after the momentous events in Japan, but betrays no signs of it yet. It will surely take time for the scars to heal for those English players who went into the showpiece in Yokohama as favourites to claim the Webb Ellis Cup, only to be beaten 32-12 by South Africa. But Underhill is determined to look back on the campaign with pride and satisfaction, rather than allowing the last result to spoil the overall experience. Asked how he reflects on that shattering defeat by the Springboks — a week after England had put New Zealand to the sword — the 23-year-old said: 'I don't know what I was expecting, but it's probably not as intense as you think it will be. 'You think it will be this one moment when you're absolutely devastated, but it's probably more of a slow-burner in terms of getting to grips with what happened. 'I don't think we could have done an awful lot more. Our preparation was as good as it could have been. That makes it easier to deal with. 'I would never want the disappointment from that game to take away from the whole World Cup, because I loved it. I think I speak for the whole squad when I say it was a brilliant experience with a brilliant group of people. Obviously it was disappointing at the end. 'It was gutting. But if we want to deal with it in a healthy way, it's important to focus on the good stuff, the final included — because it was a brilliant experience.' Underhill hasn't watched a re-run of the final. He might decide to do so one day as a 'nostalgic thing'. Normally, post-match reviews are conducted to enhance performance the following week, but that is no longer a factor, because his focus has switched back from England to Bath. 'I have to be here mentally,' he said, in reference to his West Country club. In the aftermath of the national team's loss to the Boks, there was harsh criticism in some quarters of the way several players refused to wear the silver medals they were presented with. But Underhill recognises the need to treasure mementos from the tournament. 'I gave the medal to my parents,' he said. 'They've got a display cabinet, I haven't. The man of the match award (from the game against Argentina) was pretty heavy. They're made of, like, lead — I was over the suitcase allowance coming back! 'I kept the medal and all the caps. It's a physical reminder of something that I'm sure it'll be nice to look back on when I'm no good any more!' England may have fallen short in their quest to win the World Cup for a second time, but their feats still helped to ignite wider interest in the sport here. The semi-final victory over the All Blacks must go down as an all-time peak. Underhill was one of the stand-out figures on that occasion and hopes the team's exploits can provide inspiration for rugby in this country. 'It is such a grass-roots game,' he said. 'If you have coaches volunteering time, kids wanting to play after school, parents who are willing to take them down and wash the kit, those are the kids who are going to grow up to be your professional players. 'The more people you can get, the more investment, the more you get into the game, the better. I hope (reaching the final) encourages more people to play. I hope it has a positive impact.' Japan certainly had a positive impact on Underhill. Despite the relentless, intense demands, he was able to appreciate the country and how visitors were made to feel welcome. 'It's a very calm place,' he said. 'I hadn't seen road rage in a few months but within minutes of being back I was seeing people at each other's throats! 'It's a cool place and people were unbelievably helpful and kind, especially with the limited linguistic ability within the squad. And the rugby side of things was awesome — so well organised, brilliant facilities.' Coming home has meant getting back to everyday life which has not really been part of the existence for Underhill and his England team-mates for the best part of five months. Asked what he'd done on his week off, he said: 'Laundry, food shops, cooking. All the stuff we didn't get to do when we were away. 'I've been adjusting back to reality. I've reunited with the dog, a ridgeback, Frankie — she is a bit of a pain because she gets me up at six every morning. It's been about getting back to home life.' Underhill is happy to be back in Bath colours. He has not been dragged in kicking and screaming. He wants to play, but is aware that moving on from Japan won't be a formality. He said: 'The biggest thing is the mental fatigue, but that's something you can manage as a player. It's not a dictatorship. 'Every player has a relationship with the club and the club have asked what we need. Some have got different time off to others. It's as facilitated as it can be. We're here to play.' Compared to Yokohama, it will be a relatively modest occasion on Saturday. But The Rec will be full and just ask the Ulster players who are tackled by Underhill whether he is a man on a comedown. They'll be too winded to answer. 
