{ By Latoya Gayle For Mailonline   Published:  11:43, 15 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7685851/Black-Friday-Savvy-shoppers-rejoice.html }
Since Black Friday came to the UK five years ago, it's gone from a one-off shopping event to a seasonal extravaganza of deals, with Amazon leading the way.  Last year, the online giant championed the extension of the shopping event, by opening its sales a week earlier, and multiple retailers followed suit.  But this year, brands are starting their deals even earlier in the hope of luring in customers with a pre-emptive bargain.  Retailers such as electrical giant AO.com, fashion site Very and outdoor and tech specialists Halfords have launched early Black Friday sales with as much as 50 per cent off.  Traditionally Black Friday, which originated in the US, used to fall on the first Friday after Thanksgiving. But once again this year, it will last for over a week starting next Friday 22nd of November, encompassing the day itself on 29th, and running on to Cyber Monday on 2nd December.  But if you can't wait to bag a bargain, FEMAIL has rounded up a selection of early deals not to be missed across beauty, home, technology and more.   FASHION & BEAUTY The Tiger Slip Dress is ideal for experimenting with office wear and parties throughout the festive season. It has feisty stripes and colour-popping hue for a flattering and stylish appearance. The Uutra glossy and high shine, faux leather pencil skirt from V by Very features a mock croc texture. It can be teamed with heeled sandals or mules for an on trend look. The glamorous pink Jacquard Shirt Midi Dress from V by Very features is satin-smooth and adorned with glossy jacquard animal-inspired spots for added luxe. It can be paired with suede black boots for an effortlessly chic look.   The seventies style inspired V by Very Patti Platform Sandal in snake print looks glamorous when paired with a summer dress. It features ankle buckle fastening and Crisscross open toe. This glamorous sequin-embellished headband from V by Very, is the perfect finishing touch to outfits for special occasions in any season. Available in black, it can match easily with any look. The Osprey Daylite Plus Backpack is lightweight and versatile, but it also offers a stretch front pocket providing extra space for clothing or daily essentials on your shopping trips or outdoor excursions. It  features a padded sleeve for safely carrying gadgets such as laptops.  This certified diamond ring is crafted from 18 carat white gold and features four central princess-cut white diamonds clustered together to look like one single large stone, accented by dozens of round-cut white diamonds.  This pretty bangle watch from Lola Rose features semi-precious gemstones inlaid on the strap, plus a contemporary round face and gold-tone accents.  These Ted Baker oval frames are a great statement piece and the perfect colour for the upcoming festive season. The T-bar design adds a stylish touch  The Targus Newport Tote Backpack is a stylish work life accessory. Pack all you need into the bag and carry in comfort using the padded backpack straps and adjustable features to convert from a tote to a backpack. Topshops' black faux Croc PU Shorts are great for embracing this season's animal print trend. Crafted in a leather-look fabric with a crocodile-textured finish, they can be easily paired with thigh-high boots for rock star chic. This floaty black maxi dress will carry you through all your winter season events. Perfect for weddings, parties and even New Years Eve, just switch up your accessories to keep your look fresh. Embrace this season's animal print trend with this bold, monochrome dress, It can be easily paired with barely-there heeled sandals and a coordinating clutch bag for an effortlessly stylish look.    A chic addition to your wardrobe, this Topshop midi pencil skirt is perfect for the office when paired with a crisp white shirt and court shoes. For a more relaxed ensemble, team with flat knee-high boots and a chunky knit. This floaty incarnation of the classic LBD, making it versatile as a day or evening piece. Wear with biker boots and an oversized denim jacket for a grungy day look, and switch to heeled ankle boots and statement earrings for a more polished evening ensemble.  Inject some rock chic attitude into your wardrobe with this glossy, textured biker jacket. The perfect accompaniment to an oversized band T-shirt and distressed skinny jeans, this jacket can also be dressed up worn with a brightly coloured midi skirt and printed silk top  Elevate your work-to-weekend looks, whatever the season, these pointed slingback court shoes from V by Very are a sleek, chic pair to add to your footwear collection.  A modern take on the traditional parka, it's cut from from durable waterproof fabric to keep you warm even in the harshest winter weather. It also features snow cuffs and a removable faux fur trim. Cut for comfort from a marl-look cotton that feels supersoft, this flannel check shirt can be styled the classic way, with the buttons done up, or leave it open and layer over a T-shirt for a more laid-back style.  This elite down jacket has narrow quilting channel 600 fill-power down insulation that traps heat close to the body for optimum performance. These comfortable brown boots made are made from durable materials that can withstand harsh weather. They can be teamed with jeans and a padded jacket for warmth and style.   This timeless grey Parker features a thick faux fur trim hood and faux fur inner for essential snuggly softness. It is 100 per cent machine washable and has a drawcord waist to sculpt your shape. This machine washable scarf is a stylish accessory for staying warm throughout winter. Made from 100 per cent polyester, it's sure to last for years to come.  A sterling silver friendship bracelet featuring spectacular round-cut diamond embellishments, it's ideal for easily accessorizing everyday outfits.  These sterling silver hoop earrings are encrusted with round-cut diamonds and are finished with huggie fastenings. An essential for any jewellery box, these gorgeous earrings can be styled with any outfit. The faux fur trim adds a little luxe, with a monochrome checked pattern, pockets and smart silhouette for a gorgeous day to night feel.  This unique toothpaste has a charcoal and silver stripe combined with added Hyaluronic acid to care for your mouth and gums. Excellent stain removal without high levels of abrasivity, safe for everyday use.  Create perfect brows and accentuate your eyes with this ultimate kit. Kit includes; pigmented wax for shaping and powder for setting mini angles brush and mini blending brush mini tweezers.  This must-have from Tom Ford has an uplifting citrus scent that's perfect for women or men. Top notes include Sicilian Lemon, Winter Yellow Mandarin and Italian Bergamot. Braun Silk-épil 7 Wet & Dry epilator is most efficient on short hairs and provides a smooth, virtually painless epilation experience with repeated use.  The perfect combination of skincare and grooming from Nivea Men stored in a large reusable glass jar, this set features shampoo, shaving foam, shower gel and moisturiser.  This daily treatment cream is specifically designed for the delicate skin around the eye area. It instantly brightens eyes by reducing the look of dark circles.  This make-up collection for creating everyday looks is an exclusive palette of rich, warm earthy tone shadows. It features new palettes of eight shades of highlighters and eight blushers. Beauty lovers will love this collection of 25 products from Revolution, including full-size chocolate shadow and face palettes in addition to I Heart Revolution’s iconic heart highlighters, scented glosses and super cute accessories. Mandarin & Lime Basil Hat box includes an array of toietries products to pamper the body and keep your mind in a peaceful state.  This brush head removes up to 2 times more plaque than a manual toothbrush. It has an EasyStart feature to adjust the power level and an interval timer for ensuring each area is given a thorough clean. Crystal Noir from Versace is an oriental fragrance with top notes of Ginger, Cardamom and Pepper. The popular scent oozes femininity with Orange Blossom, Peony, Gardenia and coconut heart notes. This seductive scent for men is rich and distinctive with ginger top notes, Maninka Honey heart notes and Leather Accords base notes.  This fresh scent for men has radiant top notes that burst with the juicy freshness of Reggio di Calabria Bergamot. Ambroxan, derived from precious ambergris, unleashes a powerfully woody trail. This waterproof shaver can be used in the shower with your favourite shaving gel or foam for extra skin protection. Featuring ComfortCut blades, it can be used for up to 45 minutes after eight hours of charging.  This addictive floral fragrance by Agent Provocateur has pure saffron oil and coriander, followed by a divine heart of rose oil, jasmine, vetiver and magnolia oil for a feminine feel.  This glorious scent by Thierry Mugler has Radiant notes of grapefruit, pink pepper, hazelnut cream, rose, vetiver and patchouli create a signature scent with a twist, evoking passion and confidence in every spray.  With intense metallic edge, these buildable, colour-rich luminisers come in rule-defying shades that looks amazing on all skin tones., Killawatt Foil keeps skin lit beyond sundown with its weightless longwear formula.  This worry-free, long-wearing makeup stays fresh and looks natural through heat, humidity and nonstop activity. It feels lightweight and comfortable and won't change colour, smudge or come off on clothes.  Dior's 1st lipstick infused with flower oil that delivers 12-hour wear with the comfort of moisturising lip care. Rouge Dior Ultra Care Lipstick is available in 10 shades with a luminous pearly matte finish.  Edgy yet feminine, this modern floriental fragrance rewrites the perfume rules and invites women to celebrate themselves every day. Top notes include Bergamot Essence BS Blackcurrant Accord.  HOME & GARDEN PerfectDraft is a beer machine that allows you to pour your own high-quality draft beer in the comfort of your own home. The smart machine will cool the 6-litre beer kegs to a perfect 3 degrees and will stay fresh for 30 days.  Prepare homemade pizzas and fluffy cakes with this KitchenAid food mixer. Its 300 Watt power output means you’ll never be waiting long for kneaded dough, and because it comes equipped with 4 accessories, you’ll always have the tool for the job.  Compatible with whole beans or ground coffee, you’ll always have the perfect brew. State-of-the-arts coffee machine features a memory function you can save your favourite drink settings for quick coffee on the go.   With a massive net capacity of 601 litres, you will have plenty of space to store your chilled and frozen goods with the LG American Style Fridge Freezer. The fridge has four shelves, three door compartments and two vegetable crispers to provide you will a wealth of options for storing food and drink.  The V8 cord-free vacuum is lightweight and easy to use, making cleaning surfaces effortless. A powerful motor inside the brush bar helps to achieve a deep clean into carpet surfaces, removing dirt and pet hair for a thorough clean. The Ninja Soup Maker and Blender has a 1.75 litre capacity and 1000-Watt power output  to quickly blitz your favourite fruit and veg at the touch of a button. The pulse function helps you achieve the perfect consistency for whether you want smoothies or soups.    Running on an efficient energy setting of A++, this Samsung dishwasher washes those last couple of bits with the half load option. It also features residual heat drying technology, using heat generated in the final rinse, it dries all your pots with efficient performance. With a 9kg drum capacity this Bosch washing machine is great for medium-sized households. It has an A+++ energy rating and the VarioPerfect™ option you have control over the wash, choosing to make the wash 60% faster or save 30% in energy.    The Panasonic Croustina Bread Maker features 18 different programmes, so you can make whatever doughy creation you’d like. Functions include rapid bake, handy jam maker and even gluten free mode.  The Halfords Advanced 200 Piece Socket and Ratchet Spanner Set has been engineered by professionals, and features 100 tooth ratchets and our 72 tooth Ratchet Spanners, with Surface Drive Plus to enhance your DIY. The classy Ava offers a modern take on traditional style, with welcoming curved armrests and hand-turned wooden feet - finished off with elegant metal studs. The generous four-seater sofa has a plush pillow back in a selection of gorgeous fabrics.  This all-in-one electric cooker is a superb addition to the kitchen for those who love experimenting with versatile dishes. Its it 2 litre pan can be used for cooking, baking and even making pudding.  The Keswick sofa collection combines classic high backed designs and elegant scroll arms, making a timeless addition to any living space. It's available in a selection of colours and sizes to fit any home.  This stylish rose gold iron from Tefal is Anti-drip and a 60g continuous steam output. It also features a Patented MicroScale filter to stop scale and prevent stains on clothes.  Take the hassle out of the housework with this superb AEG robot vacuum cleaner. It has a 40 minute run time from a single charge and AirExtreme technology to ensure that more dirt is collected.  This stylish addition to the kitchen from Russell Hobbs, is great for making toast and smaller items such as crumpets and muffins. With the clever Lift & Look feature, you can even check on your toast without stopping the cycle.  With 3 heat settings to choose from, you can effortlessly change the temperature  of this Dimplex 055132 Convector Heater 2000W to suit your needs. You can also manage your heater straight from your smartphone with the Dimplex app. This multi-functional Samsung oven has the ability to self-clean an dual cook. It's a sleek addition to any kitchen for those who love cooking and baking.  TECHNOLOGY    This 60 inc Smart TV from LG delivers a superior viewing experience with 4K Active HDR technology. A state-of-the-art Quad Core processor supports the advanced picture processing required for bright, sharp images.  HP's Pavilion laptop is perfect for handling big projects as it features a 10th generation processor which easily manages big applications while remaining speedy. It has a Full HD screen with Micro Edge display for clarity and clear detail.   LG's Wireless Soundbar is a sleek design with high resolution audio for a studio worthy experience. It's ideal for those who love immersive viewing experiences and want to boost their home cinema.     Gamers will love the Motorola G7 which allows them to have play games and binge boxsets without worrying about battery charge. It features an octa-core Snapdragon processor to keep everything running smoothly, while ensuring even large apps load quickly The Huawei P30 Lite features a 120 degree wide angle lens that makes it easy to capture huge expanses of landscape, or fit everyone into the group photo at Christmas, you'll be able to get more out of every photo you take.  Monty offers comprehensive radio reception with DAB, DAB+ and FM for all your favourite stations or switch to Bluetooth and stream your own playlists. The 10W speaker tuned in VQ’s Hampshire studios offers room filling sound no matter what you listen to and the choice of real wood cases makes Monty easy on the eye too.  An Amazon Alexa speaker like no other, forget the tube or the big bright screens – go vintage and stylish. Hepburn Voice also has a standalone Bluetooth mode if you’re not connected to the internet and has a built-in rechargeable battery. The speaker is available in standard colours or prints from Emma Bridgewater and Cath Kidston.  Ancestry's cutting edge DNA kit is a great buy for tech savvy, gadget-lovers who want to explore their backstory. In just a few simple steps, you can understand your genetic origins and connect with relatives you never knew you had.  The 2in1 Android Tablet with 10.1 Inch display can be used both as touch screen or with keyboard for your convenience. It features 16GB Storage, 2MP Camera and 0.3MP Selfie Camera and 4-5 hours playback for entertainment on the go. A stylish addition to any kitchen, this glass kettle has 1.7L water capacity and a 360° cordless base. Boiling water quickly, it is fitted with dual LED's that create striking blue-to-red visuals during the process.  This glorious HD Ready TV has access to apps such as Netflix, YouTube, BBC iPlayer, Facebook, Twitter and web browsers. It also features Surround sound for an immersive viewing experience. Lose yourself in True 4K colour and clarity with this Samsung Smark 4K TV. It has access to the most popular streaming apps including Amazon Prime and Netflix, for opportunities to binge on your favourite films and programmes.   Using Bluetooth connectivity, these stylish GOJI Wireless Bluetooth Headphones can be paired with your smart devices so that you can enjoy your favourite songs, even if you're up to 10 metres away from the device.  With a 24.2 megapixel CMOS sensor and powerful DIGIC 7 processing, the Canon EOS M100 Mirrorless camera delivers brilliant images and detailed Full HD movies. Choose from a range of automatic shooting modes, or take creative manual control as your confidence grows. The Nintendo Switch is designed to go wherever you do. With the ability to transform between a home console and a portable system, the console lets you play your favourite games for longer. This dash cam features Nextbase Emergency SOS, the world’s first Dash Cam with an emergency response system. In the event of an accident, an alert can be sent to the emergency services with your location.  This budget bundle is able to track your calories, steps, distance travelled, daily activity levels, sleep patterns and more.Sync the health tracker via Bluetooth with your smartphone to stay in touch and progress whenever and wherever you like. Ideal for use in all seasons, this Dyson fan heater offers precise, room-filling air temperature, powered by intelligent Air Multiplier technology, now with jet focus. FOR KIDS The Cosatto Giggle 2 Travel System & Accessories Bundle is suitable for all-weather and saves you from buying a separate carrycot, pram or duo-directional pushchair.  This fun convertible ride on car features adjustable parental control, and also a foot to floor option once the child gets bigger. Both doors can be opened and, once seated, the children can either drive themselves or leave that up to the adults to steer via the adjustable handle.  My Buddy Wheels is ideal for helping a child learn the fundamental skills needed for cycling by combining a balance bike with a soft cuddly friend to make the adventure more exciting. Ideal for older riders who have mastered 3 wheels, this Frozen scooter folds and unfolds quickly and easily - ideal for transportation and storage - and is ready to ride right straight out of the box   Hangrees are quirky pop culture parody figures that children will enjoy feeding, shaking and experimenting with their slime. This LED Advent calendar is a fun and creative way of counting down to Christmas. It can be decorated with paint, glue and glitter for a personal touch. The wooden Christmas scene lights up for a festive display.     The 2-in-1 Glamper has over ten play areas with lights and sounds, a removable cab, one exclusive doll and more than 55 surprises to unbox. It also features a slide, perfect for dolls to play on.  The BABY Born Surprise Baby Bottle House is the perfect home for BABY born Surprise dolls. The set includes an exclusive BABY born Surprise 11cm doll and comes with a bath and real working shower, where the doll's hair will change colour when it comes into contact with cool water. This personalised wooden puzzle is ideal for children 18 months and over. It features a picture under the pieces as a help guide and can be personalised with a name of up to eleven letters.   This cuddly soft unicorn toy is the perfect accompaniment for children of all ages. It has a durable design which children will be able to enjoy throughout their childhood.    Children will love this magical advent calendar with surprises hiding behind each door. Suited to those who are age three and over, it features a selection of figures to make playtime fun.  This blue machine washable sleepsuit is an adorable choice for keeping baby warm throughout winter. Made from 100 per cent cotton, its comfortable and durable.  With a top speed of 15 mph and range of up to 7 miles, the Hover-1 Eagle Electric Folding Scooter is ideal for exploring the outdoors.  The scooter features built-in suspension and LED headlight for safe travels. Made from 100 per cent polyester, River Island's Girls cream faux pearl embellished dress is a stylish selection that has long mesh sequin and faux pearl embellished sleeves and back button fastening. Anna sets off on an epic journey teaming up with rugged mountain man Kristoff and his loyal reindeer Sven to find her sister Elsa, when the kingdom of Arendelle is trapped in an eternal winter. Children can enjoy this 35cm doll to play out their own adventures. The Joie Brisk Stroller – Cherry is a modern and light pushchair that can be adjusted to suit your little one perfectly. The forward facing seat features 5 reclining positions, including a lie-flat recline suitable for newborns.  
