{ By Reuters and Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:11, 15 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7688427/Critics-praise-Frozen-2s-stunning-cinematography-say-movie-goers-probably-Let-Go.html }
Early reviews are in for the highly anticipated Frozen 2, and the sequel stands its ground amid lukewarm responses as it's currently sitting at 82% on Rotten Tomatoes. But critics said this week that the return of Anna and Elsa had a two-hour running time that was far too long and even the songs weren't that catchy, compared to the original which birthed the popular Let It Go. USA Today's Brian Truitt tweeted about the movie out November 22: 'My daughter's review of Frozen 2: "It was too long." My stance isn't far off.' His review read: 'Unfortunately, Frozen 2 is a heavily plotted -- and sometimes plodding -- affair with way too much going on and not enough of it working together cohesively.' The sentiment was shared by Daily Mail's Brian Viner, who said in a 3/5 star review: 'This is a different kettle of frozen fish, with a plot that will befuddle most seven-year-olds and frankly, writing from experience, not a few 57-year-olds.'  BBC reviewer Nicholas Barber called the animation 'barely visible folly' that's 'weird and bleak'.  Forbes' Scott Mendelsen said while the characters are 'strong' and the animation has 'gorgeous visuals', it was a 'generic story' and had 'aggressively mediocre songs'.  Hamilton creator Lin Manuel Miranda has praised the score ahead of the Disney release. He posted on social media that composers Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez 'have been heroes/mentors my ENTIRE career' and had created 'a dingdang smart gorgeous score'.  The Los Angeles Times' Justin Chang said the score was preferable over the plot, writing: 'Like the first film, Frozen 2 is less a triumph of storytelling than of packaging.  'It bundles together a bunch of familiar, likable characters and a fresh list of bright, catchy songs, expertly written with an ear toward the Broadway showtunes they will one day inevitably become.'  Variety reports that the main sentiment was that while the film is unnecessary, 'Disney has released another money-maker that knows how to satisfy its audience'.  Variety's Peter Debruge says the film will resonate with younger audiences in a time of political strife as the main characters' actions parallel sentiments from teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg.  'Conventional Disney princess movies -- in which alabaster beauties from Snow White to Belle passively awaited the liberating effects of true love's kiss -- may have been taken at face value for most of the studio's history, but today's kids have gotten savvy,' he wrote in his review.  'They recognize the often-problematic socializing effects of popular entertainment, and they demand better. They also know when they're being patronized, and at times, Frozen 2 tiptoes a bit too carefully along that fine line, where escapism stops being fun because the adults responsible have started overthinking the politics of it all.' The new offering helps explain why Elsa is gifted with the ability to blast snow and ice from her fingertips while her sister cannot. Praising the visuals, The Atlantic's David Sims said 'standout moments including 'the queen skiing across a raging ocean, encountering water spirits in the shape of horses, and exploring caverns of crystalline memories' are better than most of the dialog.  But Sims admitted: 'Most of the time, though, this elaborate plot doesn't yield anything remotely original. Frozen 2 may be big and expensive-looking, but it has no more reason to exist than the direct-to-DVD offerings Disney used to churn out.' Entertainment Weekly's Christian Holub said it 'makes a valiant effort to live up to its predecessor, but can't escape its shadow'.   IndieWire's Kate Erbland claimed it's the loved of characters like Olaf that see the movie be a success at the box office this holiday season. The Guardian's Peter Bradshaw agreed it was 'nice to see these figures again', but said: 'I couldn't help feeling that there is something a bit underpowered and contrived about the storyline... At times, Frozen II almost felt like an extended bonus featurette that could have gone with the Blu-ray edition of the first film.'  
