{ By Danielle Zoellner For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:15, 13 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7682517/Amazon-users-WILD-30-bed-covers.html }
Amazon shoppers are always looking for a good deal that won't deplete their bank accounts.  And people have gone crazy over $30 Mellanni sheets sold on the e-commerce site, with shoppers bragging about the 'super soft' and 'breathable' for even the most sensitive sleeper.  Not only does the product have more than 60,000 reviews on Amazon and an average rating of 4.5 stars online, but it has also earned the title of the retailer's best-selling home product.  The sheets must be something special to beat out other home products, including cast iron skillets and Instant Pot.  Online the covers boast for being Microfiber 1800 bedding that are wrinkle free, stain resistant, and hypoallergenic. Besides the quality of the sheets, they also come in a wide range of colors.  Reviews have poured in with people imploring others to also buy the sheets, and it has earned the product five stars from 72 per cent of the reviewers.   One reviewer who bought the product went as far as to even write a poem for the sheets after loving them so much, titling the review 'just a college student procrastinating.' 'These sheets are super soft and very nice,' the poem began. 'And honestly you can't beat the price. And I know If I went to the store today. I couldn't find any to beat these anyway.'  The poem created by the procrastinating college student went on to brag about the price point and how the product provided a 'good night's sleep'.  'Flat sheet, fitted sheet, pillowcases for you. Just go ahead and treat yourself to some too. And If you're reading this review, I hope you enjoyed my rap. Now brb I'm going have a quick nap,' it read.  Other reviewers were not as innovative to boast about the product, but they also had high reviews for the covers.  One person wrote: 'The combination of low price, decent quality, and increasing softness justifies the praise these and other microfiber sheet sets are receiving.'  Another reviewer commended the sheets for being 'one heck of a bargain'.   'I put these suckers on my bed for the TRUE test of any sheet, and oh my...they are fantastic! They are soft,' the reviewer wrote. 'It's like coming home after a long, yucky day at work, and all you want is to crawl your sorry self into bed for the night, and your sheets GIVE YOU A HUG all through the night. But they are breathable, so you aren't sweating like crazy. Ah-May-Zing!'   
