{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline   Published:  08:52, 11 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7655871/Beauty-fans-praise-24-hour-10-Avon-foundation-sells-two-minutes-natural-finish.html }
Beauty fans are raving over a £10 foundation from Avon, one of which sells every two minutes. British shoppers claim the Power Stay 24-hour wear base provides a natural-looking finish and great coverage which lasts all day. They're also hailing its £10 price tag - reduced from £15 - and likening its performance to other premium long-wear foundations.   The product, which is available in 20 shades to cater to a wide range of skin tones, claims to be smudge and humidity-proof.  Its lightweight, breathable formula also offers a sun protection factor of 10 and a matt finish which applies, blends and builds easily. Many happy customers have taken to the website to praise the product for its longevity.  One reviewer, aged between 25 and 34 with dry skin, wrote: 'I was a little skeptical because I've used long-wear foundations before, and they always feel cakey and uncomfortable. This one is different.  'I applied with a damp blending sponge and the result was a natural-looking finish with great coverage. Great shade match too!  'Not only did it last an entire day without having to top up, but it survived several different things - a badminton session, a 5K run and a back massage where I was lying face down!'  Another, aged over 65, commented: 'I have been looking for a foundation that "does it all" for years. Well at last I've found it! Covers my redness and imperfections without applying a thick layer.  'Lasts all day and doesn't transfer to clothing etc. Also sets quickly after application so finishing powder and blusher can be applied.  'Loved that I was able to buy some samples prior to the full size (my shade turned out not to be the one I expected). Can't fault this foundation— much better than others costing three times the price. Highly recommended.' And one, aged between 35 and 44, claimed: 'I used this foundation for my sister's wedding and it did as described, stayed put all day, would recommend without hesitation.' Sharing her before and after photos with FEMAIL, Avon fan Holly Roberts said: 'I am an avid Estée Lauder Double Wear fan and I have said for years that I would never switch. I can honestly say that now I have tried this foundation I will continue to use it.  'I love the fact it is buildable coverage and doesn't look too cakey on the skin and it comes with a pump! Bonus!' Jessi Lou Milton said: 'I love this new foundation. I've not got anything like it in my collection. It applies really well, and offers me full coverage but a lightweight feel.  'I love the finish of the Power Stay, it gives me an air-brushed look. I apply it first thing, and it lasts me all day and evening. I've worn it to work, on a weekend and out on an evening, it doesn't budge or fade.' And Autumn admitted: 'I love a full coverage, long-wear foundation, and this one honestly tops them all! It's so creamy and blends like a dream. The finish is natural without losing any coverage power and there's no need to touch up!' 
