food reviews
{ By Baz Bamigboye for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:19, 8 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7663027/BAZ-BAMIGBOYE-screen-Mirren-McKellen-thats-no-lie.html }
Men rule when it comes to lying, according to Oscar-winner Helen Mirren. When she saw the sceptical look on my face, she added: 'What about the line: "Of course I'm not being unfaithful. I was working!" That's a man's line, isn't it?' And Mirren, star with Ian McKellen of new film The Good Liar, also told me how one man's deception still rankles with her, decades after it happened. She was working for a pittance at the Royal Shakespeare Company, but managed to save a lot of her £18-a-week salary. A fellow actor wanted to buy a flash car but was a good sum short and Mirren offered to lend it. She thought she'd get it back by the end of her run with the RSC. 'He never gave me the money back! I used to see him around, but haven't seen him for years. 'The lesson from that is I never lend money now. I will give money, but I will never lend it.' Mirren and McKellen were taking tea with me at the Corinthia Hotel on the Embankment, to chat about Bill Condon's deliciously deceptive thriller which opens here today, and is their first appearance on screen together. They have appeared on stage before — in Dance Of Death on Broadway in 2001. In The Good Liar, which is based on a bestseller by Nicholas Searle, McKellen plays an ex-army type who meets a widow. You can find out more by reading reviews, but the spoilers won't come from me. As we chatted about fibbing, Mirren said if men are the better liars, then women are more observant. She recalled working with Tom Conti on a film in Scotland and they went to a restaurant where he once worked as a waiter. 'They kept bringing heaps of food, and I couldn't finish it. I didn't want to offend them, so I tipped the pasta and meat into my handbag.' Mirren came clean years later — and found Conti had noticed nothing. 'I said a woman would have observed what I was doing with my bag.' McKellen nodded. 'It's such a waste of time lying,' he said. 'I have been with people who I suspect are almighty liars, who claim they've done something like get to second base on Everest.' He added that gay men had been forced to lie for years. 'I was well into my 40s before officially revealing my sexual identity. I'd been open with some; and lied to others. 'It was just about the law of the land,' said the actor, who has been performing his breathtaking one-man show to full houses at the Harold Pinter Theatre throughout the autumn. Jac's back with Jason in Joseph  Jac Yarrow, who was plucked from the Arts Ed drama school and given star billing at the London Palladium in Joseph And The Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, has been officially contracted to return to the musical next summer. He'll be joined once more by Jason Donovan. But Sheridan Smith, who won raves for her music hall turn as the Narrator, is expecting her first child — and has various TV projects in the pipeline, too — so won't be returning. The show's producer, Michael Harrison, and director Laurence Connor both said they wanted to work with Yarrow again. The 21-year-old Welsh actor was picked to play Joseph earlier this year after Harrison saw him perform at Arts Ed in the Disney musical Newsies (he'd read a piece about the show in this column). Yarrow recalled that his legs were 'shaking like you wouldn't believe' when he arrived for the first time (via a lift) on the Palladium stage. 'But Sheridan and Jason were like my pillars. They gave me the confidence to make it through.' He also had some good luck charms — a display of family photographs — in his dressing room. Pride of place went to a treasured wartime picture of his paternal grandparents, Iris and Ken, on honeymoon in London. 'It's of them walking up Argyll Street, where the Palladium is,' Yarrow said proudly. Joseph will have a nine-week season at the Palladium from next July 2. (Tickets via www.josephthemusical.com). There has also been a lot of chatter about Yarrow donning the coat of many colours when the musical goes to Broadway, probably in 2021. Other casting for the Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice classic will be done in the New Year. This Christmas, Yarrow will be playing the Prince in Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs at the Birmingham Hippodrome. Although he now resides in London, his first television show took him back home to Cardiff. He has a featured role in three episodes of the five-part BBC comedy In My Skin, starring Gabrielle Creevy. He plays the class clown. The series was shot at Cardiff High School, where his mother is deputy head and his sister is an English teacher. Bale's brilliantly driven portrait of a champion powered by tea  Passions run high with Christian Bale, said James Mangold, the director of the actor's latest film, Le Mans '66. In the movie, which opens here next Friday, Bale stars as British-born motor racing hero Ken Miles, opposite Matt Damon as sports car expert Carroll Shelby. Bale is sensational — his portrait of the tea-drinking champion driver is marvellous. Mangold told me he'd cast his film with 'good eggs'; the kind of movie stars that 'if I got trapped in an elevator with them I'd not be sad about it'. He added he felt Bale was a 'very close cousin of the character he's playing'. 'Christian's an idealist. He loves acting, but he's not comfortable being a movie star. I think passions run high with him. He's not into bull****. He just wants to make the film. 'He felt that Ken would have drunk Typhoo Tea, so we made sure we got Typhoo Tea. He wanted a tin mug, so we got a tin mug.' The director said the film is about friendship. 'It's the purest thing that we have in life. It's free of the complexities of sex, family and money.' Show goes on for Salesman after ceiling fall   One by one, on Wednesday night, the producers, executives, artistic chiefs, lawyers and safety technicians made their way into the Piccadilly Theatre's auditorium. Earlier, just 20 minutes into the first act of Death Of A Salesman, plaster had fallen from the ceiling into the grand circle and front stalls.  Theatre staff expertly evacuated the theatre. Five people received minor injuries. I was nearby, and scooted over to the Piccadilly to report on events. Tonight, the 5-star show will play, with limited costumes and set, back at its former home the Young Vic; and there will be two performances tomorrow (Saturday). People with tickets should contact their point of sale.  Because of a need to ensure that the building is safe, the producers and owners are unable to say when the play will resume at the Piccadilly. There's hope it will be Monday, but nothing has been confirmed. The superb new season of Netflix drama The Crown begins on November 17, starring Olivia Colman, who's excellent as the Queen. But as monarch, her reign lasts just two seasons. Casting has unofficially started on who will succeed Colman for seasons five and six, which will include the Blair years.  Helen Mirren, who won an Oscar for The Queen and gongs for playing Her Maj on stage in The Audience, told me emphatically she had ruled herself out. Adam delves into pain of his parents' split for divorce drama Adam Driver said he's 'aware of the challenges of being married' and does everything 'humanly possible' to keep his family out of the spotlight. Two years ago, Driver was the star who kept the birth of his son, with actress wife Joanne Tucker, a secret. Until someone spotted his child's head in a relative's Instagram. He doesn't much like being in the limelight, which is tricky when your roles include the troubled warlord Kylo Ren in the Star Wars movies, plus a string of other hits including last year's BlacKkKlansman, directed by Spike Lee; and the Washington thriller The Report. But the biggest noise is being made about Noah Baumbach's sizzling masterpiece Marriage Story, in which he and Scarlett Johansson play a couple — Charlie and Nicole — whose union is unravelling. 'She's already made the decision to end the marriage,' Driver said of Johansson's Nicole, a one-time teen screen star who transplanted from Los Angeles to join Driver's Charlie in New York. He's a former actor, too; but now a celebrated director. Charlie has not been paying attention, while his spouse's dissatisfaction has led her to up sticks and move back to LA with Henry, their seven-year-old son (played by Azhy Robertson). Nicole's so bitter she won't listen to the letters both have written about the other, as part of a marriage conciliation programme, and is way ahead of Charlie in the divorce stakes. Driver and I discussed the movie briefly, up in the mountains at the Telluride Film Festival. However he was much more comfortable in London, which has been a second home during the six years shooting the Star Wars final trilogy at Pinewood Studios. Marriage Story from Netflix (which has become the go-to studio for many top-flight directors) is the fourth picture Driver and Baumbach have made together — and their most successful collaboration. It's so beautifully written, directed and acted that it does have some kinship with 1979's Kramer v Kramer, the Oscar-winning divorce drama starring Meryl Streep and Dustin Hoffman. I think, though, that Marriage Story is more personal.  Much of it comes from Baumbach's own split from actress Jennifer Jason Leigh, and from lengthy conversations with his stars. 'Noah and I had been talking for months about what we wanted to work on, and we were throwing out ideas,' Driver told me. 'And then one night he said he'd been working on this for a while, but there wasn't a script.' Baumbach was talking to Johansson, too; and Laura Dern, who plays Nicole's ferocious LA divorce lawyer. Driver said Baumbach wanted to 'play with audience allegiances'. 'You start with one character, and then at a certain point, you have an opinion about another person. And by the end of the movie, you're not sure who to root for.' Watching Charlie and Nicole grapple with the end of their relationship is heartbreaking. But because their performances are so outstanding, and their dialogue so sublime, you can't take your eyes off them. At times, Driver looks so wounded I wondered how he summoned up that level of pain. 'My parents were divorced,' he volunteered. 'I was seven when they got divorced.' He leaned forward, and said that some of the scenes are 'so edgy that it's hard not to bring yourself to it'. 'Knowing what it's like to be almost the exact same age as Henry is, in the film, when his parents divorce. And to know the things my parents did, or didn't do, in trying to do the right thing by me. 'I look at them, as humans, in the midst of it, trying their best to figure it out. 'So you think about all of those things, and you can't help but draw on that.' The break-up of Driver's parents' marriage changed his life. His mother moved him from San Diego to her hometown of Indiana, where she married a Baptist minister. The actor will almost certainly be nominated for his extraordinary portrait of a man drowning in divorce. There's one scene in particular which is a revelation. It's to do with the Stephen Sondheim song Being Alive, from the musical Company - which he sings. 'For me, it's the first time in the movie that he [Charlie] begins to process the loss of love,' Driver mused, before correcting himself: 'not even loss of love, because there's still love, but transitioning. 'Throughout the course of the song he shifts. He sings about wanting someone to 'crowd me with love, who will always be there', even though for years he's said to himself that's not what I want at all. 'It was such a beautiful moment for Charlie to say, in the midst of losing love, that this is what he's feeling — and this is what he wants 'Sondheim's able to channel emotion and psychology through music in a way no one else can.' Driver, who sang in the choir at church and school, is shooting a film musical at the moment with director Louis Carax and Marion Cotillard. He plays a conductor; Cotillard is an opera singer. Songs are by the LA band Sparks (brothers Ron and Russell Mael). Marriage Story will have a limited cinema release in the UK from November 15 and then stream on Netflix from December 6. The final Star Wars picture The Rise Of Skywalker is out on December 19. 'It's the last one, and I'm sad to leave — not just playing the character, but the people you work with,' he told me, adding that one of the things he'll miss is the peace of walks on Hampstead Heath. 'People have the most well behaved dogs there!' he said, laughing. I tell him he hasn't seen my two! Driver has a Rottweiller-pitbull mix but is sad he's never been allowed to have the pooch with him here.  'It's because the anti pit thing is huge here,' he said, looking momentarily crestfallen.  
