{ By Jennifer Smith For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:02, 5 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7653435/Peter-Luger-Steakhouse-punchline-Broadway-play.html }
Peter Luger Steakhouse has become the unlikely punchline of a Broadway show after being slammed by New York Times critic Pete Wells.  The institutional Brooklyn restaurant was roasted by Wells last week in a zero-star review that went viral.  Customers have since spoken out both in support of Wells' critique and in angry rebuke of it.  Now, the review is winning laughs on the stage.  In the newly-opened play The Inheritance, one of the characters says: 'For a real steak you have to come to Peter Luger’s.'  The play began before the review was published last week but now the line is winning laughs, according to The New York Post.    There was a defiant turnout of New Yorkers and a steady stream of hungry tourists at the steakhouse last Wednesday, the day after the review.  Despite the Times’ critic's controversial view that the restaurant is past its best, diners still lined up at 10.45am to score a lunchtime reservation and those who had already booked their tables were eager to eat upon arrival. Doorman Anil Gurung said it was no less busy on Wednesday, in spite of the bad review, than on ordinary weekdays and the huddling of customers both in the bar and outside at times suggested he was right.  The resounding feedback from the diners as they left the restaurant after their meals was this: the Times is wrong - Peter Luger's is still the best steakhouse in New York City.  Cheerful retired NYPD cops and veteran customers who have been visiting the restaurant for decades decried the review as 'fake news', with one particularly opinionated diner telling DailyMail.com: 'It’s just one guy’s opinion and what does he know anyway!'  Inside, the restaurant staff were less jovial.  Some bartenders cracked jokes to burger chomping customers in high stools, feigning dismay over the Times’ Pete Wills’ scathing assessment of them. But the maître d', somewhat jumpy amid a flurry of questions and renewed criticism, was less eager to talk about it.  The dining room’s waiters were downright offended by the review.  One, who declined to be named but told DailyMail.com that he had been working there for 31 years, said: ‘I thought it was too personal.  'Lots of people come and give reviews, but none are ever like that.’  Another was more stern.  'It’s just wrong. We’ve been in business for 131 years. We have a simple menu and the best ingredients,' he said.  The server, who also declined to be named, said the New York Times has done 'nothing good' for the restaurant in 50 years.  Management wouldn’t be interviewed and owner Jody Storch did not return requests for comment.  But satisfied diners heaped praise on both the food and service as they left the restaurant.  One was a retired NYPD cop who did not wish to go on camera but enthusiastically told DailyMail.com he had come for lunch on Wednesday to support the steakhouse where he’s dined since the 1980s.  ‘I’ve got some news - this place is great!’ he yelled as he made his way to his car.  He was not the only one who had come to stand behind the restaurant in the wake of the Times' rebuke.   Two friends in their thirties changed their Manhattan lunch plans to come to Luger’s.  Mike Jones and Doug Lauretano said they wanted not only to support the restaurant, where one enjoyed birthday meals as a teenager with his parents, but to also decide for themselves if the Times review was fair. They said it wasn’t.  They also questioned why Pete Wells, the food critic, ordered sole during one of the recent visits he based his negative review on.     Lauretano conceded that the servers were 'brusque' but said it was part of the restaurant's charm.  'To me, the waiter was very short and curt. That's what I expect. I think it's part of the atmosphere. There's no place like it,' he said.  A Japanese family-of-four came with a recommendation from a New Yorker friend. Takashi Sai and his family, who squeezed in a final meal before flying home, said the food was ‘very good’.   It was a similar story among a group of women from Florida who said that while their meal was expensive, the food was ‘amazing.’  'It was our very first time. It was amazing! Just amazing. I had t-bone steak. It was so nice.  'We lined up this morning for a reservation,' Wakana Shima said.  Only one person had anything remotely negative to say.   Claudia Schnuriger, 62, a German native living in Australia who first visited the restaurant 20 years ago with her parents, had returned for a ‘walk down memory lane.’  She tried to get an evening reservation earlier in the week but was told she had ‘no chance’ so came back for lunch and had an underwhelming burger.  ‘It was a bit dry,’ she said, adding that she ‘probably ordered the wrong thing’ and should have had a steak.  Bill Munkas, who said he’d been coming for ‘decades’, proudly produced his Peter Luger credit card.  'More fake lying news from the New York Times! It's the best steakhouse in the world!  'It's only one man's opinion. Come here try the steak for yourself if you can get in,' he he said of Wells' review.  Jack Bruno, 35, who was also in his party, echoed his praise, as did Candace Rauter, a vegetarian who had come for the first time with a more seasoned colleague and enjoyed the spinach, broccoli and a baked potato.   'I thought it was great I thought the service was really good and the food was very tasty. I had some of the spinach and the broccoli and baked potato. I loved it!' she said.  Floyd Kephart has been visiting for 50 years.  'This place has been here longer than I have. The fact of the matter is, if you go back through the years, you'll always find some negative things.  'It's kind of like movies - I pay no attention to reviews,' he said.  Of the steep prices, he said: 'This is New York in case anybody hasn't noticed. The prices are the prices.'  Jay Donovan, who has been visiting since the 70s, said it hadn't changed.  'It's always great,' he said, adding: 'It's a plain old steakhouse, the way steakhouses used to be.'  In his review, Wells said the restaurant had gone downhill over the years.  He said the staff were unpleasant and that the food was often unevenly cooked.  It made paying such high prices as $104 for steak for two and $6.95 for a single slice of bacon painful, he said. 'What gnaws at me every time I eat a Luger porterhouse is the realization that it’s just another steak, and far from the best New York has to offer,' he wrote. Twitter users sprang into action to claim they shared Wells' opinion. They called it 'long overdue'.  Storch told The New York Post in response: 'We know who we are and have always been. The best steak you can eat. Not the latest kale salad.'  
