food reviews
{ By Ryan Fahey For Mailonline   Published:  11:22, 5 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7651217/Tourists-left-outraged-charged-104-small-family-meal.html }
A family was left outraged when a meal of three hot dogs, a ham and cheese sandwich and a few drinks cost them over £100 at a bar in the Vatican area of Rome.  The family of four, who were visiting from the southern region of Puglia, stopped for lunch at an unnamed bar on Via dell Conciliazione, near St Peter's Square on Saturday, after sightseeing in the morning.   The father, Leo Recchia, told Il Messaggero: '€22 (£19) for each hot dog.... Almost €20 (£17) for service. To think that the night before we had gone to a restaurant behind the Pantheon: We spent the same, but for a complete dinner.' The bar manager has defended the high costs, saying that 'the prices are on the menu, you can check'. 'Also, we are near the Vatican, it costs,' he added.     The Antico Caffe di Marte made headlines last year after two Japanese tourists were slapped with a bill for £380 for a fish and spaghetti dish. A photograph of a receipt posted to travel review website TripAdvisor shows that the meal for two at Antico Caffè di Marte came to a massive €429.80.  The pair had only ordered two plates of fish with spaghetti, alongside glasses of water and were shocked to see part of the bill was an €80 (£70) service charge. The Japanese travellers' story quickly echoed across the internet and newspapers as people were left in disbelief at the cost. But the restaurant is now threatening to sue complaining customers claiming that the story has meant the restaurant now sits empty most days. Carlo Scorza, a lawyer for the restaurant has refuted the claim that staff members were preying on unsuspecting tourists. He added that the cost of the dish was due to customers failing to notice that the price of the dish is per 100g of the food provided. Before the story was shared internationally however, the restaurant had already amassed around 200 reviews online. Many took issue with the prices and the apparently common staff practice of adding a 20 per cent tip to the bill. The restaurant has received an average rating of two stars out of five on TripAdvisor. One customer leaving a review said: ' We had the misfortune to fall for their regular trick of offering the seafood platter which is listed on on the menu at €6.50.' 'We ended up with a horrendous bill for €385. Plus a service charge. That was approximately the cost of our return airfare to Rome'  Carlo Cafarotti, head of tourism for the city, railed against the restaurants action, telling the Times: 'Customers must be treated well and encourage to come back.' 'With this kind of behaviour we are damaging the image of the capital.'  
