food reviews
{ By Isabella Nikolic For Mailonline   Published:  22:12, 4 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7649005/Reviews-return-Crown-promise-viewers-NOT-disappointed.html }
With the return of the much-beloved The Crown just around the corner, an influx of reviews have promised that viewers will not be disappointed with the new season.  Season three of the hit Netflix show premieres on November 17 and spans some 13 years from 1964 to 1977, while managing to keep a stately pace throughout.  And the new season brings with it some new faces. Olivia Colman takes over from Claire Foy as the Queen, Tobias Menzies replaces Matt Smith as Prince Philip and Helena Bonham Carter, 53, steps up to play Princess Margaret who was previously portrayed by Vanessa Kirby. While there seems to be absolutely no doubt that Colman, 45, filled the shoes of Ms Foy superbly, some believe the performances of the other newcomers were somewhat lacklustre.  While Ed Power of the Independent reported that Colman 'brilliantly inhabits the Elizabeth we all know and take for granted', he believed that Menzies, 45, was 'less convincing' in inheriting the role of Philip.  Power compared Menzies's portrayal of the Duke of Edinburgh to a 'straight-forward impersonation' and said he's never 'completely alive in the role'. While Power wrote that Bonham Carter's depiction of Margaret was a 'jarring' re-imagination of the character, the Guardian's Lucy Mangan said she played her with 'magnificently casual disdain'.  Mangan goes on to write that Menzies's performance as Philip is 'relentlessly top-notch' and gives him special mention for 'his portrait of a charming, brutal, wounded man'. And Laura Jane Turner of Digital Spy agreed, writing: 'Although it's clear that Philip is still wrestling with his role in the palace and as partner to the monarch, Menzies brings a different dimension to the character.'  However, she wasn't convinced of Bonham Carter's performance, believing it 'fails to command the same level of investment as that of her predecessor'. Season three largely reflects the era of Harold Wilson, who served as Prime Minister from 1964 to 1970 and then again from 1974 to 1976, when he resigned for health reasons.  And the monarch will face her darkest time on the throne yet as she battles the miners' strike, national security, sibling rivalry and family conflict ahead of her 1977 Silver Jubilee.  Colman is most revered for her restrained performance throughout the series.  The Vulture's Jen Chaney wrote: 'Colman’s performance is a season-long exercise in extraordinary restraint that provides a profound payoff. When a family crisis finally does make Elizabeth lose it — or at least lose it to the extent she’s capable — it’s an extremely moving moment.' And although she may seem an island of reserve and calm, Tilly Pearce of the Metro believes she was shown to be the 'puppet master' of the other characters.   She believes 'it almost veers into melodrama worthy of soap land’s Albert Square' but remains entirely watchable throughout.  According to Lewis Knight of the Mirror, the real scene-stealers are Josh O'Connor as the 'isolated and eccentric Prince Charles' and Erin Doherty as the 'sarcastic and intelligent' Princess Anne.  Knight notes that Charles Dance is 'reliably strong as the pragmatic Lord Louis Mountbatten'.  The new series and will depict historic moments such as the 1966 Aberfan disaster, and the first miner strikes between 1972 and 1974.  
