{ By Jayna Rana For Thisismoney.co.uk    Published:  08:03, 4 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/smallbusiness/article-7599983/Mowgli-Street-Food-founder-swapped-career-40s.html }
Many of us dream of switching career or starting a business, but few will take the plunge and do it - especially as we become older, despite more experience and wisdom gleaned along the way. But one entrepreneur took the giant leap of faith, giving her career a complete makeover in her early forties proving it is never too late to follow your passion.  Nisha Katona, 48, is a barrister-turned-restaurateur, having ditched the court dress for a chef's apron when she couldn't contain her 'beastly' obsession to share her authentic Indian cooking any longer. She decided to start Mowgli Street Food as she believed 'the stuff you get in Indian takeaways and "traditional" curry houses is not real Indian food.' Along with the hardships that any entrepreneur faces when launching a business, Nisha Katona had to fight her way through a few other obstacles before achieving the success she now boasts today. The restaurant is about to open at its 11th location, Bristol, with another eight in the pipeline, after starting just five years ago in Liverpool.  But she says: 'The banks wouldn't lend to me because they thought I was having a mid-life crisis.' Nisha says she faced a number of challenges, along with a difficulty getting finance: a mix of ageism, sexism and even the memory of the racism that took place when she was younger and not far from where she opened her first site.  Born and raised in Ormskirk, Lancashire, Nisha says her family had fire bombs and bricks thrown through their windows and were spat on in the street. But despite the hostility the family received, Katona's parents would invite neighbours round and cook for them, and before long the family had integrated into the community. 'We opened our home and fed people. Being able to cook masses of food is pretty much the best ice breaker,' she says. She then went on to become a barrister, but was once again singled out and ostracized for being part of not one, but two minority groups.  On the first day of her pupillage, she says she was told not to return the next day because 'there was no place for a woman or for an Asian'. Despite being a barrister for 20 years, specialising in child protection which saw her meet countless people at their most vulnerable, she wanted to help people in other ways.  Like her parents before her, she knew cooking was one way of bringing people together. Nisha started spending weekends teaching her homemade family recipes to people in the local area in her home.  Before long, these sessions were getting booked up and more people were showing an interest and so she set up her own YouTube channel in 2012, quickly amounting hundreds of followers which soon became thousands.  'I realised people were addicted to this type of food,' she recalls.  'People prefer the healthy, authentic way of taking the humble vegetable and turning into curries - what my parents and their parents before them would make at home. 'These dishes convey the truth that real Indian food is extremely healthy, often vegan and always packed with fresh flavour.  'After the success in my local area, I wondered if the Liverpool High Street would want to discover the truth too.' It was then when Nisha thought about opening her own restaurant and the idea only grew in momentum. She says: 'It became a living creature that poked me when I slept. Being an entrepreneur is like having a disease. It takes over your life.' Unfortunately, Nisha's dream didn't work out exactly as she wanted.  Every bank she went to to find initial funding turned her down, with her age proving to be one of the main reasons. 'The banks wouldn't lend to me because they thought I was having a mid-life crisis.  'Even though I'd been banking with it for 20-plus years.  'Even though I was a hard-working barrister with a clear strategy.  'Even though I had a real depth of passion and knowledge for the market.  'They just thought I was a woman in her forties with a silly dream.' Nisha also feels her gender had a part to play in the response she received from the banks, which she says are used to seeing 'sharp dressed men in suits and brown shoes'. 'The bank manager probably saw me and thought, "You're a short, brown woman dressed like a hippy. You do not fit any type of business woman archetype",' she adds.  'During the research stage, when I would knock on restaurant doors and ask to speak to the owner, I always hoped to see a 40-year-old woman, but I never did.'  Liverpool 69 Bold Street  3 Water Street Manchester 16, 37 Corn Exchange Unit 1, University Green, Oxford Road Birmingham Unit 30, Grand Central, Stephenson Place Oxford Unit 302, Westgate Nottingham 1 Stoney Street  Sheffield 631 Ecclesall Road   Cardiff Unit C, 5-10 Church Street  Leicester 10-12 Saint Martins  Bristol (opening soon) 35 Corn Street   It was only after she remortgaged her house and used her own savings, Nisha bought an 'old and festering' Chinese restaurant, in which she would spend her lunch breaks designing and building the interior by hand. She also continued to talk to other restaurant owners, making notes of who was visiting where and at what time, and even speaking to people on social media about her ideas.   'Community support is critical. I started a Facebook page before I built the restaurant, and would ask people if they would eat what I was planning to make and what they would pay.  'I even asked them what they would name it and gave them three options - one of which was Mowgli.  'I built this business for the community so I have to know what they think.' Even now, when Nisha reviews her menus, she heads to social media to ask which dishes are doing well and why people aren't taking to others.  For example, customers recently told her they weren't likely to order the 'Calcutta cabbage tangle' because 'Brits won't eat anything with cabbage in the name'. She recalls: 'We changed the name to 'Calcutta tangled greens' and now it's one of our favourites. But I am also happy to pull things off the menu if people don't want them.  'That comes from a lack of confidence. I still don't think I can just enforce my idea on people. I am only as good as my last curry.  'I go to one of my restaurants every day and every day I am honoured that people are in there. It's like they are walking into my home and eating my nan's food.' When the first site opened on Bold Street in Liverpool in 2014, the queues were 'round the block'.  Nisha now has ten running restaurants across the country, with the 11th opening in Bristol later this year.  She has also just negotiated her 19th lease, with sites expected to open in the coming years in Scotland, Bath and York, just to name a few. She says she is unlikely to open a restaurant in London in the near future - which is down to high rent rates - which she says can eat into profits and is why so many chains have collapsed. 'The food has to be cheap,' she argues. 'We were voted the most reasonably priced restaurant in the North West by the Sunday Times.  'It is important that people can eat healthy and feel good but not have to pay an arm and a leg to do so.'  Almost six years since the first Mowgli opened, Nisha has gone from success to success.  Her restaurants have won several awards and received high praise while she has also been honoured - most recently quite literally in the 2019 New Years Honours list for her 'services to the food industry'. But Nisha continues to stay humble, and says: 'Every penny of Mowgli goes back into Mowgli.  'When you've come from an immigrant and poor background, you are humble. We don't take anything for granted. 'The phrase "If you build it, they will come," is a dangerous one to say because they might not. The world doesn't owe me anything.  'All I am is an Indian home kitchen making use of the commodity that is authenticity and affordability.  'Every dish has a story that comes from the heart but I know it won't be everyone's cup of tea. I do not always presume everything is going to work.  'Bill Gates and Elon Musk launched multiple businesses before the one that hit it off came along.' The mum-of-two also uses her success for good where she can, with each restaurant supporting a local charity.  As a director of the Mowgli Trust, she donates over £500,000 to different charities every year. But Nisha also wants budding entrepreneurs to hear her story and notice she is not the 'typical business woman' and that they don't have to be either in order to be successful.  'I was 40 and had two dependent teenage children and a husband that travelled a lot. I wanted to see women my age starting a new career with no business background. I also needed to see women that looked like me,' she says. 'So it is important for me to tell my story because even if I failed I could tell people what the landscape looked like if you try at this age and with kids. 'Entrepreneurs look and speak differently now and that is why these stories need to be told to give a better picture of the landscape.  'We need to be representing all the people with phenomenal ideas that often come from cultures that live with particular challenges.' 
