{ By Marisa Okano For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:06, 4 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7646223/Renee-Zellweger-cuts-elegant-figure-black-pencil-gown-raised-lapels.html }
She's earning rave reviews for her performance as entertainer Judy Garland in the new biopic Judy.  And Renee Zellweger's star shone even brighter as she was honoured at the Hollywood Film Awards on Sunday. Zellweger kept her makeup minimal with glowy foundation and a peachy lip, while wearing an artistic plunge-neck pencil dress with three-dimensional lapels.   The actress, who wore an A.W.A.K.E. Mode custom dress for the evening, came out to the event to accept the Hollywood Actress Award for Judy.   She kept her hair in a messy bun and wore plain black pumps plus an ornate diamond ring.   Hollywood Film Awards (HFA) organizers say that the ceremony is meant to honor 'award-worthy films and actors while previewing highly anticipated films and talent for the upcoming year.' Rob Riggle hosted this year's event, which is seen as a launch to the film awards season. When Vulture asked Zellweger about her approach to playing Garland, she replied: 'Denial,' she began. 'I felt like we never actually did it. We were talking about seeing what we might be able to do. Every day. Just try that.  'Try and see what this feels like and what does that hair color look like, let's try this kind of makeup and then let's try these songs, with this kind of orchestration. 'Let's try to emulate this year and this less successful evening in her life,' she says. 'A lot of it was, like, dentist rage. You know that dentist rage? Where you don't have a choice? YOU. JUST. HAVE. TO. DO. IT.' Zellweger slammed her fist on the table with each word. 'And then you're so glad that you did? That's what it was like,' she said.  Hollywood Career Achievement Award Charlize Theron  Hollywood Actor Award Antonio Banderas, Pain and Glory Hollywood Actress Award Renée Zellweger, Judy Hollywood Supporting Actor Award Al Pacino, The Irishman Hollywood Supporting Actress Award Laura Dern, Marriage Story Hollywood  Blockbuster Award Avengers: Endgame Hollywood Song Award Pharrell Williams, Letter To My Godfather from The Black Godfather  Hollywood Filmmaker Award Bong Joon Ho, Parasite Hollywood Producer Award Emma Tillinger Koskoff, The Irishman Hollywood Director Award James Mangold, Ford v Ferrari Hollywood Screenwriter Award Anthony McCarten, The Two Popes Breakthrough Screenwriter Shia LaBeouf, Honey Boy   Breakout Actor Taron Egerton, Rocketman Breakout Actress Cynthia Erivo, Harriet Breakthrough Director Olivia Wilde, Booksmart Animation Toy Story 4 Cinematography Mihai Malaimare Jr., Jojo Rabbit Film Composer Randy Newman, Marriage Story Editor Michael McCusker and Andrew Buckland, Ford v Ferrari Visual Effects Pablo Helman, The Irishman Sound Donald Sylvester, Paul Massey, David Giammarco and Steven A. Morrow, Ford v Ferrari Costume Design Anna Mary Scott Robbins, Downton Abbey Make-Up & Hair Styling Lizzie Yianni-Georgiou, Tapio Salmi and Barrie Gower, Rocketman Production Design Ra Vincent, Jojo Rabbit        
