{ By Chris Foy, Will Kelleher, James Haskell, Nik Simon And Sir Clive Woodward For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:30, 3 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/article-7645559/Sportsmail-reviews-highs-lows-2019-Rugby-World-Cup.html }
FAVOURITE MATCH CHRIS FOY: England beating the All Blacks 19-7 in that epic semi-final was awe-inspiring. It was a night when the stars aligned and history was made. Eddie Jones' side were imperious and deserved to beat the champions 30-0. WILL KELLEHER: Nothing could top England 19 New Zealand 7 for theatre and performance. Wales beating Australia 29-25 in the pool stages was good but in terms of performance, significance, drama and meaning the English semi-final win was extraordinary. JAMES HASKELL: England v New Zealand. It was the best performance by any England team ever. Everything clicked and they turned rugby into a science. I'll never forget the way Sam Underhill tackled anything that moved. NIK SIMON: Japan v Scotland. High octane, high emotion. Volunteers arrived hours after Typhoon Hagibis to clear the way for a classic. Despite being one of the smallest teams at the World Cup, the Brave Blossoms showed that speed can beat size. SIR CLIVE WOODWARD: Japan against Scotland. It was wondrous that the game took place at all after the typhoon, the rugby was scintillating and the result historic. That match alone justified the decision to take RWC to Japan. MAGIC MOMENT FOY: The expression on Siya Kolisi's face when he lifted the Webb Ellis Cup and realised what the Springboks' success would mean to South Africa was very special. However, given the host-nation euphoria it created, I'll go for Japan sweeping aside Scotland to reach the quarter-finals. KELLEHER: Kolisi lifting the World Cup. For what it means, who he is, what he represents, where he comes from and how it was the perfect encapsulation of a nation's past and its future. HASKELL: Watching Japan beat Ireland in the Maldives with my wife. I was so happy for my old coach Jamie Joseph. No one expected them to do it but they did it with so much style. SIMON: Watching Kolisi embrace his wife Rachel in the crowd after winning the World Cup. She was accused of 'wasting good genes' when they married in 2016. Now Kolisi, with his beaming smile, is rugby's new man of the year. SIR CLIVE: The ever-smiling Schalk Brits bowing politely to the nervous young ball girl when she handed the ball to him before a lineout in the Boks' game against Namibia. There was so much to like about that. BEST TRY FOY: George Bridge rounded off a stunning long-range strike by the All Blacks against South Africa, thanks to Richie Mo'unga's kick-pass, Sevu Reece's electric break, Ardie Savea's drive and Beauden Barrett's vision and offload. KELLEHER: I'm not sure I've seen a more perfectly choreographed move than England's 97-second score against New Zealand. It was like watching incessant white waves crashing into the All Blacks. Manu Tuilagi took the score, but it was a team effort. HASKELL: New Zealand v South Africa. Finished off by Bridge. Offloading, pace and skill. SIMON: Keita Inagaki — Japan v Scotland. It was like watching Barcelona pick apart a team with a series of short tiki-taka passes. What's more, three of the four players involved were tight-five forwards. SIR CLIVE: Makazole Mapimpi in the second half against England on Saturday. Brilliant quick hands, clever kick, disciplined chaser behind the ball, fantastic gather, glorious improvised pass and Mapimpi touching down unchallenged. TOP PLAYER FOY: Until Saturday, it was going to be Tom Curry but after the final, it has to be his Sale team-mate, Faf de Klerk. He was criticised for his endless kicking but he stuck to his script, was a diminutive dynamo and typified the Springboks' fighting spirit. KELLEHER: Fiji's Semi Radradra does things no one else can, so the hope is that he stays in rugby union. Of those who lasted a bit longer Tom Curry was sensational. HASKELL: Kotaro Matsushima. Amazing speed, amazing skills, amazing hair. The Japan coach calls him the 'Ferrari' and that's exactly what he is. SIMON: Curry. Second best in the final but his rise to the top has been meteoric. His breakdown work is like Richie McCaw's and his partnership with Sam Underhill could last for years. SIR CLIVE: Cheslin Kolbe by a country mile. He is a little genius on the right wing and the great shame was that injury limited his appearances. An incredible bundle of energy, pace, footwork and actually quite a bit of power. BIGGEST LETDOWN FOY: Ireland. Just a year ago, there was Irish hype about being champions-elect. Somehow, they were ranked No 1 in the world when the tournament began but were already in decline. KELLEHER: Ireland shade this over Scotland as Joe Schmidt's men had so much more expectation and better players. HASKELL: Fiji. They have the tools to be devastating. Radradra took rugby to the next level against Wales but they could not sustain it. Credit to Uruguay for beating them, they played with such spirit. SIMON: Pool C: England, France, Argentina, Tonga, USA. The group was as good as wrapped up from the moment France beat Argentina on day two. The Pumas did not show up. SIR CLIVE: Combating nature is incredibly difficult but there could have been better detailed contingency plans for the typhoon. MEMORIES OF JAPAN FOY: Kindness and civility. Airport ground staff waving off planes. Locals being so touched to see foreign visitors. So many trains and so few delays. Daft rules, rigidly enforced. Hotel pyjamas, worn to breakfast. Understated joy at the home team's success. KELLEHER: The officiousness — no you can't sit there, no not that, no not here, ticket inspectors who bow leaving every bullet train carriage, the 'yuuu' noise played at random intervals during matches and strange snacks. HASKELL: The best capital city in the world. Amazing people, amazing food. We went to a three Michelin star restaurant and Ed Sheeran was sitting in front of us. It was the most expensive meal in the history of the world! SIMON: People going out of their way to help you. Volunteers. Rules and regulations. Single-sex train carriages. Cat cafes. Bumping into Ellis Genge in naked onsens (hot springs). Sushi. Ramen. Kobe beef. The typhoon. Michael Leitch's beard. Red and white jerseys. Rugby's brilliant new audience. SIR CLIVE: Hugely excited well-behaved crowds, great rugby, wonderful camaraderie. Ultimately though it was the Japanese people who made it special. ONE THING FOR 2023 FOY: Please, more surprises. Japan gate-crashing the elite has made the game more interesting. Here's hoping that they continue to thrive, that France re-emerge as a force and that the likes of Fiji and Georgia rise up. KELLEHER: Wishful thinking, but Fiji to be in a position where they can make the quarter-finals and shock the world. Japan to be better still. Rugby needs the old order to be disturbed. HASKELL: England win it. They have a special group of players and could be on to something special. They need to regroup and get over this heartbreak. SIMON: The same thing we say at every World Cup. More success for the Pacific Islands. Fewer tries scored against them by their own countrymen playing for tier-one nations. A representative in the quarter-finals would be nice, too. Hopefully Gus Pichot is appointed World Rugby chairman. SIR CLIVE: World Cups are not retirement parties — for coaches or players — and I felt Ireland and Italy in particular got it wrong. This would not happen in any high-performing team or business. 
