{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  11:59, 3 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7636167/Anti-ageing-supplement-Starpowa-gummies-help-women-turn-clock.html }
There's a point in everyone's life when you look in the mirror and think: 'Who is that?!' While we could pop into the shower and head out the door in a flash in our twenties, the older we get, the longer it seems to take to actually look like ourselves. Although getting older has its upsides (not giving a fig about other people's opinions, for example), we can't pretend tired eyes, dull complexions, lifeless hair and brittle nails are an enjoyable part of the ageing process. But after you've spent a fortune slathering on expensive creams, where else is there to go? Well, you need to indulge in some internal support for your skin - and Starpowa is being hailed as the High Street's holy grail supplement by thrilled fans.  These delicious vegan gummies, one of Holland & Barrett's top-rated vitamins, are packed full of all the nutrients and minerals needed to support healthy hair and skin - and some women have claimed it's actually helping them turn back the clock. Here, we speak to just some of the customers who have been blown away by their results...  FORTIES: Suzy Newsome  'I've tried everything - serums and masks - but nothing has made my skin look like this for years'  'It was in my forties that I really began to see the difference in my skin. It became very dry - and is so much worse in the winter months than it used to be. 'The cold weather dries out my complexion really bad and I have tried all sorts of serums and face masks in a bid to tackle it.  'The worst thing is you can't even cover it up because putting make-up on dry skin just makes it look patchy! - Poor diet high in pressured foods and refined carbs and sugars  -  Smoking, both inside and outside - Lack of exercise  - Stress - Overexposure to the sun -  Being overweight - Negative attitude 'I initially started using Starpowa gummies because I had my long hair cut into a bob - and instantly regretted it!  'So, I went into Holland & Barrett and saw them on the shelf and thought they were worth a shot. 'With a month my skin was so much better - the dryness was gone and it felt smooth and had a youthful glow. 'It also worked wonders on my hair, it grew ridiculously FAST! It feels healthier and it’s in such good condition. I noticed a different in three weeks it had grown an inch! 'While this is great for my age group, my daughter also loves them and is seeing similarly fantastic results with her hair and skin.' Want to see the same results as Suzy? Click HERE to buy your 30-day supply of Starpowa and reap the benefits - buy one, get one for a penny now at Holland & Barrett... While we are all going to have off days, the essential vitamins, key minerals, organic compounds and amino acids in Starpowa, alongside a healthy diet, can help provide the nutrients we need on the inside - making it much easier to look great on the outside. And getting your daily dose couldn't be easier - you simply need to add two gummies to your morning routine.  But what are the amazing natural ingredients that give Starpowa its power? Click HERE to find out the magic formula that's helping women secure their skin health... THIRTIES: Caroline Shubrook 'Motherhood aged my skin... I now repeat buy this supplement as I see an improvement every single month' 'Hormones have always played a major part in the appearance of my skin. It used to be that I would suffer breakouts before periods and when using birth control. 'But it was motherhood that actually appeared to age my skin.  'I also suffer with anxiety and get stressed easily, which also normally negatively affects my skin. 'I tried everything to try and change it; less stress, cutting out sugary food, changing my diet, tonnes of different skincare regimes, drinking more water.  In our 40s and 50s, our epidermis loses fullness as the individual layers no longer have an ordered arrangement.  Fewer cells are created, while existing cells begin to shrink and the top layers become thinner.  The top levels - the dermis - also lose their ability to hold on to water, which in turn makes skin dryer and duller.  'But it wasn't until I started using Starpowa that I really started to turn back the clock.  'Every month I definitely saw an improvement. So much so, that I just repeat buy it.  'My family have commented on my skin and my hairdresser mentions the strength and thickness of my hair every time I go for my trim.  'I have suffered with alopecia in the past. But now now the ends aren’t as broken, it’s thicker and I can start to grow it longer now. 'I also don’t need to have gels on my nails anymore - they just need a coat of clear polish and I'm good to go. 'It's funny because everyone asks me what I've changed or had done - so now my mother-in-law, the mums at school and even my hairdresser are all on Starpowa!' Keen to get your glow back like Caroline? Head to your local Holland & Barrett store and snap up your batch of Starpowa - or click HERE to make the most of their famous Penny Sale...   JOANNA CHIMONIDES - reality star 'I have been taking these for way over a month and they have literally been a dream - I love them so much!' ELLIE BROWN - reality star  'I have been using @starpowagummies as part of my morning routine to help with hair growth which is something I have always struggled with.  'As well as noticing an improvement in the quality of my hair it also has made my skin glow and helps with nail growth.' LUCIE DONLAN - model 'The greatest wealth is health...' And while influencers and A-listers are huge fans, Starpowa's power is in its ratings from real life customers.  In a world of supplement saturation and complicated ingredients lists, you can find solace in Starpowa's straight-forward goal - to help support healthy hair, skin and nails. From Holland & Barrett's website reviews to those listed on Trust Pilot, it seems everyone is sold on this fabulous formula...   
