food reviews
{ By Nick Suarez For Mailonline   Published:  16:48, 30 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7630873/The-best-kitchen-appliances-tools-Amazon.html }
Kitchen appliances are designed to make life's everyday tasks easier, and to get you cooking like a master chef with minimal fuss. Whether you're brewing the perfect cup of coffee in the morning, cooking your weekly roast dinner or whipping up a smoothie for you gym workout, there is a kitchen appliance out there for you. So if you're looking to boost your cooking skills, speed up your morning routine or impress at the next dinner party, here are the top-rated small appliances that no kitchen should go without. A companion to the hugely popular Instant Pot, the Instant Pot Duo Mini is Amazon's number one best-seller in the Electric Multi-Cookers category. Despite the smaller size, the multi-cooker contains a generous 3 litre capacity and combines seven kitchen appliances - rice cooker, pressure cooker, slow cooker, steamer, sauté, yogurt maker and warmer. It also comes complete with 11 smart built-in programs to make sure you get the perfect meal, and won't emit any steam, heat or cooking smells. With an average star rating of 4.7 out of 5 from 2,500 Amazon reviews, we agree that this is a must-have for any kitchen counter. Buy now on Amazon Personal blenders are all the rage these days and the Breville Blend Active Personal Blender is no exception.  The smoothie maker is a revelation in the kitchen - its simple, one-touch blending makes healthy smoothies, frozen juices and protein drinks without any faff. It also looks great, coming in three colours - blue, green and pink. The 300W appliance is Amazon's number one best-seller in the Kitchen Appliances range, with an impressive average 4.4 out of 5 star rating from over 8,800 reviews, and it is a great choice for super smoothies at the gym, in work, or on days out. Buy now on Amazon  With a compact, futuristic look about it, the Nescafé Dolce Gusto Jovia by De'Longhi produces high-quality coffee using Nescafé Dolce Gusto pods (which have an impressive 40 varieties of hot and cold drinks). To operate, you simply pop in the pod, adjust the volume of drink you want with the lever, and go. The coffee machine is also an Amazon best-seller, with over 3,200 reviews and an impressive average 4.4 out of 5 star rating. One happy customer wrote: 'I love this machine! I've had filter coffee makers in the past but wanted a creamy latte without the faff of milk frothing.' Buy now on Amazon  Slow cookers are definitely the answer for those with hectic lifestyles who still crave healthy, delicious food at home. Morphy Richard's Slow Cooker Sear and Stew is a really quick and easy appliance to use to create a nutritious family meal from scratch. It has a hob-proof cooking pot, meaning you can sear and slow cook from start to finish in just one pot, as well as three heat settings to choose from and a dishwasher-safe design. It's also incredibly popular, with an average 4.8 out of 5 star rating. As one happy Amazon customer states: 'The best cooking appliance I have ever bought. It's just so easy to use and very easy to clean'. Buy now on Amazon  Breville's Deep Fill Toastie Maker is a great addition to any kitchen, designed to make delicious, deep-filled toasties with minimal mess. The appliance features a 'Cut and Seal' system that delivers perfectly moulded, pre-sliced sandwiches while preventing your filling from leaking. The attractive stainless steel body and compact design also looks great, and is very easy to store. It's also very highly rated by Amazon customers, with almost 2,500 reviews and an impressive 4.3 out of 5 star average rating. Buy now on Amazon  Morphy Richards' Compact Soup Maker provides a fuss-free way to make homemade soup in as little as 20 minutes. At 1 litre capacity, it is perfect for two large portions, and comes complete with an easy-to-use interface with four different settings - smooth and chunky soup, drinks and manual blend - to get you the perfect consistency every time. As a stylish, functional and affordable option for the kitchen it can't be beaten, and the appliance comes highly rated on Amazon with an average of 4.3 out of 5 stars.  Buy now on Amazon Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers.  MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page. 
