food reviews
{ By Lauren Fruen For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:43, 30 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7631125/Don-Jr-mocked-praising-pioneer-Kanyes-fearless-new-album.html }
Donald Trump Jr has been mocked online for praising 'pioneer' Kanye West's 'fearless' new album after arguing 'leftists always try to silence those who are speaking truth'.  The president's son, 41, tweeted his support for the controversial rapper, 42, on Monday telling his four million followers West 'is cracking the culture code' after the October 25 release of his Christian-themed new album, Jesus Is King.  West infamously expressed his support for Trump last year, visiting the Republican president at the White House and donning a red Make America Great Again cap.  And Don Jr wrote: '@kanyewest ’s new album #JesusIsKing is the epitome of fearless creativity and “dangerous, unapproved” ideas. 'Leftists always try to silence those who are speaking truth. They’re waging a war on our family and culture. Kanye is a pioneer.' But his tweet sparked ridicule online from some with music critic Steven Hyden joking: 'Pretty sad that only people with rich parents can afford to do music criticism these days.'  The album has received mixed reviews with Rolling Stone saying West 'reaches for greatness but falls short'. Wired says it has 'moments of brilliance' but 'falls apart'. Pitchfork labels it a 'largely flawed record'. Another writer, Zach Schonfeld, added: 'Congrats on becoming a music critic, dude. Your $50 check will arrive in 4 months.'  Ryan McKinnell said: 'Mos Def taught us about state surveillance, Dead Prez warned us about American greed, Kweli rapped about police brutality, Killer Mike told us about Reagan, Immortal Technique gave us a blueprint for the revolution... 'Kanye West said slavery was a choice.' He ended his tweet with the clown emoji. In an explosive interview with radio host Big Boy on Friday Kanye said black Americans have been 'brainwashed' into voting for the Democratic Party despite the fact the party promotes policies that are harmful to them.   When asked about his support for President Donald Trump, West explained that he doesn't believe it is smart for black Americans to bloc vote for Democrats, claiming: 'You are quite easily controlled if they know everybody gonna be blue [Democrat]. If you go to a white [person] bar, you gonna hear people talking Independent, you gonna hear people talking Democrat, you gonna hear people talking Republican'. In the 2016 Presidential Election, 88 percent of black Americans voted Democrat, while only 8 percent of that same demographic voted Republican. Dad-of-four West went on to take a swipe at Democratic lawmakers, saying: 'We're [black Americans] brainwashed out here, bro. Come on, man. This is a free man talking. 'Democrats had us voting for Democrats with food stamps for years. What are you talking about guns in the 80s, taking the fathers out the home, Plan B, lowering our votes, making us abort children.' Following Don Jr's praise one social media user was quick to question: 'Y’all are talking about the same dude who was JUST rapping about bleached a**holes I gtg.' Another copied Don Jr's tweet, attaching a picture of Kanye in his much derided huge box outfit for a video with Lil Pump.     And one user said: 'Oh so you know about the BLACK CULTURE now? LMAO!!!!!' Another added Kanye was 'longer legit' after Don Jr had to 'go to bat' for the star.  In one tweet a still from movie Get Out showed a character holding up his hand to show five, with the words: 'Q: “Which is your favorite track?” Don Jr.:' The Oscar winning film centers around an African-American man who spends a weekend with his white girlfriend's parents, only to learn that the entire family habitually prey on young black men like himself.   Religious song titles on born again Christian Kanye's new 11-track album include Closed On Sunday, Jesus Is Lord, God Is, On God and Use This Gospel. Kanye has also claimed to suffer 'like Jesus' as a result of social media, accusing the apps of fueling sex addiction and tormenting married men. The rapper took aim at women - like his wife Kim Kardashian - who use the platforms to share racy snaps, suggesting these are images that they 'wouldn't have put out' if the apps didn't exist. He made history as the first ever guest on Airpool Karaoke, a spin off from James Corden's infamous Carpool Karaoke skit.   
