{ By Lauren Edmonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:24, 29 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7627553/Couple-dressed-Native-Americans-kicked-restaurant-shouting-war-cries.html }
 An Idaho couple dressed as Native Americans and making war cries were kicked out of a restaurant over the weekend. The couple reportedly visited Shari’s in Lewistown with a group of intoxicated people on Saturday. They were dressed on Native Americans, Shari’s spokeswoman Lisa Amore told The Spokesman-Review. Amore said the couple was being ‘disruptive and loud’ and made ‘war cries.’ ‘While no one complained, it was obvious that everyone was uncomfortable,’ she said. The shift leader asked the couple to stop but they allegedly made ‘offensive comments’ to the server and the cook, both of whom are Native American. The couple was then asked to leave the premises. ‘At Shari’s we believe that all people should be treated kindly and equally with respect be they staff or patrons and we simply won’t tolerate anyone that doesn’t share those values,’ Amore said. A statement from Shari's corporate headquarters said: 'To further clarify, the reason the guests were asked to leave was because of their offensive conduct and comments to our staff and guests.' What might have been a singular event turned into a saga after the aggrieved customers decided to blast the restaurant in a Facebook post.  The post has since been deleted, but it says the couple came from a Halloween party before the incident.  'Well, we tried to have a breakfast after a fabulous Halloween party with friends and we were kicked out for out Native American costumes! Wow! All I can say in WOW! Never stepping another foot in Shari's. NEVER EVER!' This ignited a firestorm among users who called out the couple for their inappropriate costumes.  Mariah Gladstone of Montana was able to screenshot the picture before it was removed and shared with her Twitter followers.  Gladstone belongs to the Blackfoot Tribe and the founder of Indigikitchen, a company dedicated to 're-indigenizing' diets and show people how to prepare meals on 'their own reservations.'  Gladstone said: 'There’s a period of time between Columbus Day and Thanksgiving where native people are expecting to see a lot of racist caricatures on social media.' 'It’s one of those thing that I’m always bracing myself for during this season.' Gladstone was initially dismayed when she saw the post, but grew optimistic when she began reading the comments.  Many of the comments on the original post condemned the couple's costume and implied they were insensitive.   It was hopeful in that it pointed to an increased recognition to the harm that costumes based in stereotypes have,' she said.  She captioned the photo: 'When the karma is swift.' Gladstone's post has more than 2,400 likes and received supportive messages.  Since the incident, Shari's has garnered several positive reviews on its Facebook page. One woman wrote: 'Fantastic food, fantastic staff. (with a good set of morals).' 'Thank you for supporting our First Nations and not tolerating cultural appropriation,' another person wrote.  '5 [star]  review for the restaurant that’s not afraid to stand up for what’s right,' someone said. 'Cultural appropriation should not ever be tolerated. Be on the right side of history like Shari’s!' Lewiston is less than 10 miles from the Nez Perce Indian Reservation, one of the largest in Idaho.  The Nez Perce tribe reports having more than 3,500 citizens and is a federally recognized tribal nation.  The reservation spans around 770,000 acres.  The conversation surrounding Halloween costumes and cultural appropriated has become a yearly conversation.    Last years most notable iteration came off the heels of former NBC Today host Megyn Kelly.   During an on-air conversation with the audience, Kelly made a case for blackface.  'But what is racist?' Kelly said. 'Because you do get in trouble if you are a white person who puts on blackface on Halloween, or a black person who puts on whiteface for Halloween.' 'Back when I was a kid that was OK, as long as you were dressing up as, like, a character.' Kelly's comments, which enraged and offended many viewers, led her to being fired from her position at the network shortly after.  Viewers pointed out that the conversation did not address the hurtful history behind blackface and there were no people of color present on the panel.  Other celebrities have, like Chrissy Teigen, have angered fans for their portrayals of Native Americans. Teigen wore a Native American costume in 2008 in a 'cowboys and Indians' themed joint costume.  Actress Hilary Duff and her former husband got heat for their 2016 costumes portraying a pilgrim and a Native American.  Many advocates against cultural appropriation have noted that there is certain level of privilege present when donning a costume from another culture.  The ability to remove the identity, which is often times stoked with important cultural implications, and wear it without taking into account said implications can be hurtful.  
