{ By Milly Vincent For Mailonline   Published:  10:16, 29 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7625137/Uber-unveils-new-look-food-delivery-DRONE-rotating-wings-six-propellers.html }
Uber Eats has unveiled its newest drones which will be used to deliver food in San Diego, California, next year. The new drones feature 'innovative rotating wings with six rotors' - a design that has previously only been featured in flying car prototypes. Uber Eats said it believes the rotating wings will help to avoid food spillages, as the design enables a smoother transition between vertical takeoff and forward flight. The rotors will be positioned vertically for takeoff and landing, but move into a forward position 'for increased speed and efficiency during cruise flight', reports The Verge. NASA veteran Mark Moore designed similar rotors for the company's flying-taxi prototype which is also part of the companies Uber Elevate project - to take its services to the sky.  Test flights will be carried out next year in time for a commercial launch in 2023, reports The verge.    At the moment the Uber Eats drones can only hold a meal for two, but the craft has passed several internal reviews and will take flight by the end of the year, said Uber. The Federal Aviation Administration gave Uber permission to test drone delivery in San Diego, with a cruising altitude of below 400 feet - to comply with drone regulations.  According to Uber the drone will be able to load and deliver a meal for two in just eight minutes - and will only be able to fly 12 miles to make a delivery. It is also expected to be able to hover in up to 30 mph wind speeds, reports The Verge.  Other delivery companies have also tried their hands at the niche market with Alphabet Wing, partnering with FedEx and owned by Google's parent company, deploying its first drones in Virginia last week, reports The Verge.  Drone use is already growing across an array of applications. They range in size from something that could slip into your pocket right up to the behemoth weaponry used by military around the world. And they are not only in the skies - they can also be found driving on the ground, inspecting sub-sea pipelines, crawling into tight gaps too dangerous for humans or even rocketing off to outer space.  They are used by emergency services, including search and rescue and tackling fires, through to innovations in agriculture, construction, humanitarian aid, wildlife preservation and personal security. It is predicted that drones will have spawned a £70billion ($100bn) industry by  next year. E-commerce, package and fast food delivery have yet to fully develop in this sector but companies such as Google and Amazon are investing heavily in the application of drones. UberAir is a network of small, electric, aircraft that enable four-person ridesharing flights in densely populated areas. The 'electrical vertical take-off and landing vehicles' (eVTOLs) differ from helicopters in that they are quieter, safer, more affordable, and more environmentally-friendly, Uber claims. Users will order the aircraft through the Uber app much like they would one of the firm's taxis. Once they have selected an UberAIR ride, the craft will fly to the nearest 'Skyport' - a series of launch pads spread across the city. Uber estimates that an all-electric, 200mph (320kph) ride across the skies of Los Angeles will be price-competitive with an UberX trip of the same distance. Uber predicts that trips from LAX to the Staples Centre during rush hour can be reduced from up to 1 hour 20 minutes on the ground to less than 30 minutes using UberAir. Its prediction includes UberX transfers to and from UberAir launch pads - the flight over LA itself will take around four minutes, the firm said. 
