food reviews
{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:44, 29 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/bills/article-7621813/UK-households-owe-267m-energy-suppliers-winter-begun.html }
Some 2.3million households owe their energy supplier a collective £267million before winter has even started, new data claims. The debt averages at £115 per household, but is down overall by £126million – or 32 per cent – compared to last year, according to figures from uSwitch. The number of people in arrears has also reduced by 610,000 people – or 21 per cent, the comparison website says.  Record switching rates as well as greater savings being made through moving supplier and households moving away from poor value standard variable tariffs have all contributed to the reduction in debt. Despite the debt reduction, many households across the country are still struggling to pay their bills with 36 per cent of people admitting they are concerned about how they will pay this winter. To find out how many people are concerned about their energy bills, uSwitch conducted research online through Opinium on 1 to 4 October 2019, among 2,033 adults responsible for energy bills.  It found that, in an effort to cut costs, 41 per cent said they will wear extra layers, 30 per cent said they will turn the thermostat down and 17 per cent said they won't even put the heating on when it's cold. Most worryingly, 1.6million households said they will be forced to spend less on food to pay for their energy use, according to uSwitch.  Many people seem unable to get advice about how to pay for their bill with 56 per cent of households who are in arrears saying their supplier had not contacted them about the debt or offered them advice about saving money or repaying the outstanding amount.  Another 56 per cent of respondents were contemplating making sacrifices to clear their energy debt, including cutting back on food, Christmas presents, holidays, and socialising. Richard Neudegg, head of regulation at uSwitch, said: 'Thankfully, the number of people in energy debt this year has fallen as more and more people take control of their energy bills and shop around for savings. 'But sadly the good news doesn't extend to everyone. Over one and a half million households still say they will have to choose between heating and eating in order to pay their energy bills this winter. That's a terrifying prospect for anyone to have to face. 'Energy companies need to do more to make customers aware if they're falling behind, and what their options for paying off the debt are, before people have to start making drastic decisions which could affect their health and wellbeing. 'Likewise, more needs to be done to reform government support so that it's targeted at the most vulnerable households, where it will have the most benefit.' For those looking to save money on their energy bills, switching supplier is a good option as there can be savings of up to £477 a year, according to uSwitch. Credit meter customers will need to clear any debt before switching provider unless it is less than 28 days old in which case it will be added to their final bill. If the debt cannot be paid off in one go, switching to a supplier's cheapest deal can help bring costs down. Prepayment meter customers in debt by less than £500 per fuel can usually switch provider, but should still organise a manageable repayment plan. Using debt charities, such as StepChange, can help households looking to get out of the red and will provide guidance for those experiencing financial difficulties. Extra help is also available for vulnerable customers through schemes like the Winter Fuel Payment, Cold Weather Payment, and Warm Home Discount.  Neudegg added: 'Anyone worried about debt should speak with their energy supplier to set up a repayment plan, get energy saving advice, and check if they are eligible for free insulation or grants to help keep costs down.' The Mail on Sunday recently revealed that energy firms are estimated to be holding onto £1.5billion of customers money.  An investigation by Switchcraft found that suppliers used sly methods to keep the cash including increasing direct debit payments and making customers wait an unacceptable amount of time for refunds.  The study of thousands of online reviews left by customers over the past three years showed that nearly a quarter of customers' complaints related to overcharging or having direct debits increased – despite being in credit. Alex Dickson, head of research at Switchcraft, said: 'Households are being treated more like micro-lenders than energy customers. If a supplier has 10,000 customers in credit by just £20, that's a £200,000 interest-free loan to buy energy, cover business operations or invest in further growth.'    
