food reviews
{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  12:31, 28 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7621275/Influencer-leaves-bad-review-restaurant-best-food-charged-meal.html }
An Instagram influencer has been slammed for giving a restaurant a bad review - despite admitting the restaurant served some of the best food she'd ever tried. The anonymous user, believed to be from the US, said that she was leaving a one-star Yelp review because the management didn't discount her meal after she offered to post about it to her 11,000 followers.  'I'm giving one star because of the cheap management and customer service. I heard the food was very good, so I went to try' she wrote. Her review was posted to subreddit r/ChoosingBeggars where she was mocked for her pettiness.  She started the review of the unnamed restaurant with high praise, describing the calamari, spaghetti vongole, and gnocchi as 'very delicious'. When the manager came to ask how everything was, she was so impressed that she replied it was 'some of the best Italian food I've had'. The influencer continued: 'I told her I'm going to post about it on Instagram where I have over 11,000 followers and a lot of them are in the area. She seemed very happy about it. 'I was wrong. I thought that she would be grateful [sic] for the free advertising but when the check came there was literally no discount at all.  'I thought at least one of the entries would be taken off but they didn't even take off the calamari or even the drinks! 'I won't got back here because of this. Which is a shame because the food was very good. The manager needs to understand how to treat customers.' However, Reddit users had not sympathy for her complaints.   'If I was the owner, I'd frame this review and put it in the entryway' one wrote. 'It literally says "best Italian food I've ever eaten". Highlight that s***, another wrote'. 'THIS!! The perfect review' a third penned. 'It praises the food from the restaurant and the criticism only serves to expose the pettiness of the reviewer'. Others pointed out how it was great publicity for the restaurant, and they should display the sign. 'Some of the best Italian food I've had' - her name' wrote one.  'There's a restaurant in San Diego that has a really long hallway to the bathroom where they place voice recordings of bad reviews' another said. A third added: 'Food best I ever had. Service fabulous'.  
