food reviews
{ By Christopher Stevens Reviews For The Daily Mail   Published:  21:01, 27 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7619651/CHRISTOPHER-STEVENS-reviews-David-Attenboroughs-Seven-Worlds-One-Planet.html }
Seven Worlds, One Planet  BBC One Don't read on if you're of a nervous disposition.  Those pretty pink and purple starfish, scattered like a packet of glitter across the Antarctic sea bed in the new David Attenborough series Seven Worlds, One Planet (BBC One), were filmed at incredible risk. Stop-motion photography revealed the zig-zag meanderings of the starfish, urchins, anemones and other multi-coloured creatures that grow to great size in the sub-zero waters under the ice. But there was no hint in the programme of the astonishing courage required of the camera crew.  When I interviewed director Fredi Devas earlier this month, he revealed that the divers had to drill down through nine feet of sea ice and then take a leap, plunging into pitch-black water at -2C. 'They swim off to place the time-lapse cameras, but they can't use GPS locators to find their way back to the hole,' he said.  'The satellite signal doesn't penetrate through that thickness of ice. 'Divers used to swim with ropes attached to their feet, but that was too dangerous. They could get entangled. So they have to rely on memory alone.  'They have only 20 minutes of air supply, so they can't afford any mistakes – their lives depend on remembering exactly the way back. It is terrifying.' With this headline show airing at 6.15pm, an earlier Sunday timeslot than the BBC's previous wildlife series, it will attract many more youngsters.  Sir David's voiceover was probably wise not to make too much of the perils of filming, or some would end up hiding behind the sofa, the way we used to watch Doctor Who.  As it is, lots of children will have been open-mouthed with anxiety for the albatross chicks battered by hurricanes on the remote island of South Georgia. These wide-eyed bundles of white fluff looked like Muppet Babies, perched on their chimney-pot nests. But if the howling gales knocked the little birds off their mounts and into the icy mud, they could be doomed.  As Sir David gently explained, the adults can't recognise their own offspring unless they're in place, on the nest. If the chicks can't climb back to the nest unaided, they will die. This supplied a thought-provoking illustration of the worsening weather in the South Atlantic. These super-storms must be a recent phenomenon, or the albatross would have evolved better ways over the centuries to protect their chicks. Instead, the birds are facing extinction, their numbers more than halved within 15 years. Though there were multiple references to climate change and rising temperatures in the Antarctic, the show did not set out to preach. Seven Worlds, One Planet was conceived to focus on conservation, not politics, and the tone was largely optimistic. The final segment featured incredible aerial pictures of a sight never shown before on TV, because it hasn't occurred for a lifetime – 150 great whales feasting on shrimp-like krill, in a marine blow-out. Most were fin whales, so huge that they made the humpbacks that joined them look like minnows. 'These seas are once again beginning to brim with life,' Sir David concluded, a hopeful verdict that reflected the show's over-arching mood. Much of the photography was almost abstract in its beauty.  We watched elephant bull seals lolloping angrily across the beach like ripples of blubber, scattering penguins as they went.  A human diver in flippers stood on the sea bed as a curious right whale and her calf swam in balletic circles around him. Often we seemed near enough to touch the animals, such as a female Weddell seal that arduously gnawed breathing holes in the sea ice before lumbering up to give birth on the frozen surface. The poor newborn shivered so much as it hit the snow that I could feel my teeth chattering – and that was before another blizzard blew in. The most thrilling sequence, though, was filmed from high above. The cameras picked up a pack of four orcas or killer whales in search of a snack. They spotted a gentoo penguin, but just couldn't seem to gobble it up. The desperate little bird could not out-run the orcas but, every time that two of them made a lunge, it doubled back between them. Sometimes it would make a twist and hurl itself out of the water to the left or right, over a whale's back to land in clear water. Whether the orcas really were less agile, or whether they were just playing with their food, is hard to know. One of them finally lost patience and ended the game with a savage snap. Over the next six weeks, the camera crews report back from every continent, highlighting how unique species have evolved to cope with dramatically different environments during the millions of years that Earth's land masses have been drifting apart. If the standard set by this opening episode is a benchmark, this will be the BBC's most visually magnificent wildlife series yet.  
