food reviews
{ By Emilia Mazza For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  02:26, 23 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-7599109/TripAdvisor-reveals-ranking-restaurants-Australia.html }
Leading travel review site TripAdvisor has unveiled a list of the top-ranking restaurants in Australia.  The 10 establishments featured were awarded a place based on the number of positive reviews they'd received. Restaurants in New South Wales took out the majority of spots, closely followed by Melbourne, Queensland and Perth. Here, FEMAIL takes a look at the restaurants voted the best in the 2019 TripAdvisor Travellers' Choice Awards - and why they're so loved. 1.  George's Paragon Seafood Restaurant - Brisbane, Queensland  When it comes to indulging in some of the best seafood on offer in Brisbane, you'd be hard-pressed to go past local favourite, George's Paragon Seafood Restaurant. The eatery has been described by Gourmand and Gourmet as one of the freshest seafood restaurants in Brisbane. 'With pasta, poultry and prime meats up on the menu as an alternative to their wide range of seafood, no choice is the wrong choice,' the publication declared.  The restaurant currently holds 1,676 reviews in the 'Excellent' category on TripAdvisor's site. 'We have been to this restaurant several times and it's been consistently good. The seafood is a great option. The staff are attentive and friendly. Great views across the river,' said one reviewer.  2. Fish At The Rocks - Sydney, New South Wales No visit to Sydney is complete without a visit to the Rocks, the city's most well-known historic destination. Fish At The Rocks, which holds the number two spot on the list, offers diners a selection of seafood dishes with a contemporary twist. Expect a menu featuring tempura tiger prawns, Southern calamari grilled with fresh herbs or grilled Tasmanian Salmon fillet. Reviewers who've dined and left comments have remarked on the great service, food and atmosphere. 'Five star service, superb food, immaculate surroundings. Intimate dining, highly recommended. Ideal for lunch or dinner and well worth a visit to the Rocks,' said one. 3. Grill Steak Seafood Restaurant - Melbourne, Victoria  Grill Steak Seafood, situated in Melbourne's Hardware Lane between Bourke and Lonsdale Streets, has it all. From al fresco dining to private dining and function rooms, the eatery is a destination for locals and visitors alike. The eatery holds a 4.5 star rating on TripAdvisor and half of its 1,387 reviews are categorised as 'Excellent'. I've eaten here many times, whether it's on my own or with my girlfriend,' said one. 'The experience this restaurant gives you can only be described as orgasmic. The food! The wine! The cosmopolitans here are also to die for by the way!' 4. Chin Chin - Melbourne, Victoria Melbourne's Chin Chin comes with a reputation of being one of the best restaurants in Australia. The food takes inspiration in the form of modern Asian - but don't expect anything other than a menu offering quality ingredients cooked to perfection. 'The great joy of Chin Chin is its ability to meld slick, speedy service with genuine warmth,' reports Conde Nast Traveller.  Reviewers on TripAdvisor are equally enamoured with the establishment, awarding it 3,229 'Excellent' reviews. 'Staff - excellent and funny. Value for $ - excellent. Get the banquet its the best. Environment - awesome, busy, vibrant and fun,' said one reviewer. 'These guys know how to do it right! You won't go hungry, it's so much food.'  5. Hugos Manly - Manly, New South Wales  Hugos, situated on Sydney's Manly wharf, has been a fixture on the Northern beaches dining scene for the past 10 years. Diners can expect a contemporary and expansive menu as well as a stunning range of pizzas. Reviewers commenting on the travel site have declared it 'all-round excellent'. 'First came here there years ago and it's got better. Brilliant staff, very attentive but in no way intrusive. Fabulous atmosphere and the food was really great,' said one.   1. Friends Restaurant - Perth, Western Australia 2. Sage - Canberra, ACT 3. The Stunned Mullet - Port Macquarie,New South Wales 4. fermentAsian - Tanunda, South Australia 5. Spirit House - Yandina, Queensland 6. China Doll - Sydney, New South Wales 7. Pee Wee’s at the Point - Darwin, Northern Territory 8. Watergate Restaurant & Lounge Bar - Port Douglas, Queensland 9. Bacchus - Brisbane, Queensland 10. Sake Restaurant & Bar - Sydney, New South Wales Source:  TripAdvisor 2019 Travellers' Choice Awards 6. Farmhouse Kings Cross - Sydney, New South Wales Sydney's Kings Cross has significantly evolved since its days as the city's red-light district. So much so it's now a hub for a range of cosmopolitan eateries such as the Farmhouse. The restaurant is unique in that it offers diners a set five-course menu with a choice of two dining times: 6.30pm and 8.30pm. Reviewers on TripAdvisor have raved about the quality of the cuisine as well as the service and contemporary atmosphere. 'Wow. Let me pick my jaw up off the floor!' Wrote one person. 'Impeccably, relaxed yet professional service. Generous servings of A-class comfort food with exactly the right balance. Wines perfectly suggested as per the menu (which changes fortnightly). Outstanding meal in every way. Congrats team.  7. Petition - Perth, Western Australia Situated in the heart of Perth, Petition Kitchen is an eatery which prides itself on offering the very best dishes made from seasonal produce. The restaurant serves breakfast, lunch or dinner or visitors can simply while away the hours enjoying a glass of wine from its extensive selection. Those who've eaten at the establishment and left reviews have said they've been delighted by the historic location as well as the great food. 'Easy enough to book online. The food was excellent. Kim, who served us was fabulous. Funny, smart and superbly efficient. Had a great time and will keep coming back,' said one reviewer.  8.  Tha Fish - Cairns, Queensland Tha Fish is a fixture on the Cairns dining scene having been in operation since 2004. The restaurant situated on the Cairns Marina prides itself in offering diners the very best in locally sourced seafood. 'Our service style is relaxed but attention to detail. We think of tha Fish as our second home and invite everyone to come in and meet Tha Fish family,' reads a statement on the site. Those who've visited are equally thrilled with hundreds leaving 'Excellent' reviews, all praising the quality of the food, service and location. 'Went to this restaurant on the advice of a local, and he wasn't wrong!' Said one. 'The food and the service was outstanding!! Would highly recommend this restaurant when you're in Cairns.' 9.  Salt House - Cairns, Queensland Salt House, also situated on the Cairns Marina, offers a more contemporary dining experience than its neighbour, Tha Fish. As well as a restaurant offering a menu comprised of fresh, seasonal local produce, the bar also makes this a must-visit destination. 'Unlike anything you've seen before, relax on our daybeds in the tropical outdoors, surrounded by flowing ponds and fire features,' reads a statement on the site. The eatery holds over 1,000 positive reviews and those who've commented have raved about the food, service and ambiance. 'We sat out on the deck and had pre-dinner drinks and the view of the harbour was amazing. Dinner was really tasty and the service was impeccable,' said one.  10. The Grounds of Alexandria - Sydney, New South Wales If you're a coffee connoisseur, a visit to the stunning The Grounds of Alexandria in Sydney's inner west is a must. 'The Grounds is an innovative, sustainable speciality coffee outfit combining science, industrialism and organic gardens into one awe-inspiring space,' reports Broadsheet. As well as offering diners a cafe-style menu, the establishment also bakes its own house bread, sweet pastries as well as its signature potato and onion flatbread. Reviewers on TripAdvisor have said how much they love the outdoor location as well as the 'sensational coffee'. 'Great atmosphere for family or friends with a casual and garden (almost shop) theme,' said one. 'The food was reasonably priced and very good. The service was prompt and seating availability was quite quick.'  
