food reviews
{ By Nicole Abebe For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:06, 22 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7576043/Comfort-support-25-sports-bra-thats-hailed-perfect-fit-Amazon.html }
Finding a sports bra that is both comfortable and supportive can seem like an impossible task, especially if you have a larger bust. But thousands of women have found a solution in the Fittin Racerback Sports Bra, which has notched up a slew of positive reviews on Amazon praising the level of support it provides without being too tight.  The medium impact bra, which is currently selling on Amazon for between $10 and $26 depending on size and color, features a four-way stretch along with wide shoulder straps and a racerback to give you full support and coverage. It's made from a super soft fabric and is wireless, so there are no uncomfy seams digging into your skin. The bra also features a wide center gore and stretch band for added comfort. Customers have described the Fittin sports bras as 'so comfy you forget you are wearing them' and 'so comfortable you could even wear them to bed', and numerous reviews have labelled them the 'perfect fit'. 'Absolutely my favorite bras,' one reviewer raved. 'Sooooo comfortable! Holds everything in without being too constricting or uncomfortable!'  Women with larger busts in particular, as well as plus-size women, have noted how well the bras cater to them.       'My favorite sports bras,' another contented customer wrote. 'I have always struggled finding the right sports bra while being "gifted" with needing a larger size.  'I have always either been uncomfortable, felt awkward, or spilled out in all the wrong places. These bras keep everything in place and look so cute doing so.'  It's worth noting, however, that a number of shoppers have pointed out that although the bra is great for light and medium impact exercise, it might not offer the support you need for anything high impact. DailyMail.com may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page.    
