food reviews
{ By Jennifer Newton for MailOnline   Published:  05:01, 22 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/travel_news/article-7588551/Worlds-best-restaurants-2019-named-TripAdvisor-eateries-China-Birmingham-ranked.html }
The world's best fine dining restaurants have been named by TripAdvisor, with Chinese eatery TRB Hutong in Beijing rated number one and Birmingham establishment Adam's coming 10th. They have been handed the accolades as part of TripAdvisor's 2019 Travellers' Choice Restaurants Awards, which are decided by an algorithm that analyses the millions of reviews and opinions collected in a single year from travellers around the world. The second-best restaurant in the ranking is Epicure in Paris followed by Ristorante Villa Crespi in Italy. The top-ranked restaurant in America is Daniel in New York, which comes 21st overall. Top-rated restaurant TRB Huntong is housed within a 600-year-old temple and focuses on contemporary European cuisine, with a focus on French cooking. Diners can expect to see dishes such as lobster and poached scallops on the menu Glowing reviews from travellers who have experienced it include: 'Our expectations were exceeded from our arrival through the front door to our departure. It was truly a wonderful experience and one-of-a-kind evening.' While another said: 'Definitely ranks among the best meals in Beijing! Beautiful atmosphere, excellent service and fine dining experience.' Second place Epicure is inside Le Bristol Paris hotel – in the French capital - and it holds three Michelin stars. The restaurant is currently celebrating its head chef Eric Frechon's 20th anniversary of working at Epicure with a special £328 ($423) tasting menu that includes caviar, langoustines and hen poached in a bladder. Third place Ristorante Villa Crespi is in the town of Orta San Giulio in northern Italy on the shores of Lake Orta. The two-Michelin-star restaurant has a 150-euro (£130) tasting menu that includes sea bass, borlotti beans, tagliatelle and roasted baby pork. Fourth on the list is Restaurante Benazuza in Cancun, Mexico, which has 745 excellent reviews from a total of 1,702 left on TripAdvisor. One review said: 'what an amazing experience, fine dining at its very best', while another added 'this was one of the best dinner experience ever’. Coming in fifth is The Jane, which is set inside a former military hospital in the Belgian city of Antwerp and offers a 150-euro tasting menu. Other restaurants featuring in the worldwide top 10 are Le Brouillarta in Saint-Jean-de-Luz, France (sixth), David's Kitchen in Chiang Mai, Thailand (seventh), El Celler de Can Roca in Girona, Spain (eighth) and Aramburu in Buenos Aires (ninth). Tenth-place Adam's in Birmingham also took the title of being TripAdvisor’s best fine dining restaurant in the UK. This year marks the second time that Adam’s, which is run by husband and wife team Adam and Natasha Stokes, celebrates taking the UK top spot – the first time back in 2015. Adam said: 'We are absolutely thrilled to be awarded number one in the UK and 10th in the world in the Travellers’ Choice Awards for Fine Dining Restaurants. 'This is our sixth proud year of being included in these customer-focused awards and it is a huge achievement. I am immensely proud of our whole team AKA the “Adam’s family” with special credit to our Service Manager, Shaun, who has been with Adam’s since day one and really embodies all that the Adam’s family is about. 'Thank you also to all our guests, old and new and those regulars we see time and time again.' Coming second in the UK ranking is The Black Swan in Oldstead, North Yorkshire, which is a Michelin-starred restaurant with rooms. The restaurant offers just one tasting menu that costs up to £125 and it states on its website: 'The menu is inspired by the ingredients that we grow and forage in and around Oldstead. 'It might be something outwardly simple but really fresh and delicious or perhaps an incredible flavour developed by fermenting, pickling or prolonged ageing.' Third in the UK ranking is L’Enclume in Cartmel, Cumbria, which boasts two Michelin stars and has a £155 tasting menu. Fourth in the UK is ‘Paul Ainsworth at No6’ in Padstow, Cornwall, which is set inside a Georgian townhouse, while fifth is Aizle, an Edinburgh restaurant that grows its own vegetables and herbs. The other restaurants in the UK top 10 are Maison Bleue Restaurant in Bury St. Edmunds (sixth), The Old Stamp House Restaurant in Ambleside, Cumbria (seventh), Alyn Williams at the Westbury in London (eighth), Castle Terrace Restaurant in Edinburgh (ninth) and Restaurant Sat Bains in Nottingham (10th). Top-ranked American restaurant Daniel is located inside the former Mayfair Hotel and serves up French cuisine. The restaurant has one Michelin star and offers a $158 (£121) four-course prix-fixe menu that includes escargot and caviar. Meanwhile, the top-rated restaurant in Australia is Friends Restaurant in Perth. The eatery describes its cuisine as 'modern Australian' adding that the food 'offers clarity, harmony and some surprise, with influences that are authentic, imaginative, and traditional, to satisfy every imaginable sensibility'. However, no Australian restaurant made it into the top global list. To view the full list of 2019 Travellers' Choice award-winning restaurants, visit: www.tripadvisor.co.uk/TravellersChoice-Restaurants.  Favourite Fine Dining Restaurants Worldwide   1. TRB Hutong, Beijing, China 2. Epicure, Paris, France 3. Ristorante Villa Crespi, Orta San Giulio, Italy 4. Restaurante Benazuza, Cancun, Mexico 5. The Jane, Antwerp, Belgium 6. Le Brouillarta, Saint-Jean-de-Luz, France 7. David's Kitchen, Chiang Mai, Thailand 8. El Celler de Can Roca, Girona, Spain 9. Aramburu, Buenos Aires, Argentina 10. Adam’s, Birmingham, United Kingdom Favourite Fine Dining Restaurants Europe  1. Epicure, Paris, France 2. Ristorante Villa Crespi, Orta San Giulio, Italy 3. The Jane, Antwerp, Belgium 4. Le Brouillarta, Saint-Jean-de-Luz, France 5. El Celler de Can Roca, Girona, Spain 6. Adam’s, Birmingham, United Kingdom 7. Martin Berasategui, Lasarte, Spain 8. Disfrutar, Barcelona, Spain 9. The Black Swan at Oldstead, Oldstead, UK 10. Restaurant 360, Dubrovnik, Croatia Favourite Fine Dining Restaurants in the UK 1. Adam’s, Birmingham, Midlands 2. The Black Swan at Oldstead, Oldstead, North Yorkshire 3. L’Enclume, Cartmel, Cumbria 4. Paul Ainsworth at No. 6, Padstow, Cornwall 5. Aizle, Edinburgh 6. Maison Bleue Restaurant, Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk 7. The Old Stamp House Restaurant, Ambleside, Cumbria 8. Alyn Williams at the Westbury, London 9. Castle Terrace Restaurant, Edinburgh 10. Restaurant Sat Bains, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire  Favourite Everyday Restaurants in the UK  1. The Dome, Edinburgh 2. Makars Gourmet Mash Bar (Mound 1&2, Edinburgh 3. Steak & Co. Leicester Square Charing Cross, London 4. Poppies Fish and Chips Camden, London 5. Sotto Sotto, Bath 6. Bettys Café Tea Rooms – York, York 7. Mourne Seafood Bar, Belfast 8. Cowshed, Liverpool 9. Mustard Seed Restaurant, Inverness 10. Ginger Bistro, Belfast  Favourite Fine Dining Restaurants in the U.S 1. Daniel, New York City 2. Halls Chophouse, Charleston 3. GW Fins, New Orleans 4. Lahaina Grill, Lahaina 5. Geronimo, Santa Fe 6. Charleston Grill, Charleston 7. Peninsula Grill, Charleston 8. Mama's Fish House, Paia 9. Merriman's, Waimea 10. The Bazaar by Jose Andres, Miami Beach Favourite Fine Dining Restaurants in Australia 1. Friends Restaurant, Perth 2. Sage, Canberra 3. The Stunned Mullet, Port Macquarie 4. fermentAsian, Tanunda 5. Spirit House, Yandina 6. China Doll, Sydney 7. Pee Wee's at the Point, Darwin 8. Watergate Restaurant & Lounge Bar, Port Douglas 9. Bacchus, Brisbane 10. Sake Restaurant & Bar, Sydney   Source: TripAdvisor     
