food reviews
{ By Nicole Abebe For Mailonline   Published:  23:59, 21 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7596997/The-best-travel-coffee-mugs.html }
No one wants a room-temperature cup of coffee, especially on those frosty mornings. So if you like your coffee on-the-go, a good travel mug is an essential for your daily commute.   Even if you like to get your brew from your favorite coffee shop, a travel mug or a reusable cup will help cut back on waste, making your morning brew more environmentally friendly. When picking a travel mug, there are a number of factors to consider from leak-proofing to insulation. Here we bring you nine of our favorite from Amazon that tick all the right boxes. 720°DEGREE Travel Mug, from £19.97 The 720 degree travel mug is an ideal companion on-the-go. This stainless steel vacuum-insulated cup is leakage proof and you can drink comfortably from any side thanks to the 360 degree opening. This travel mug comes in seven different colors, and Amazon users have noted how effective its insulation is. One reviewer wrote: 'I use this for my morning lecture and it stays lovely and hot well into the afternoon.' Another raved: 'I rarely am driven to write reviews but this is an amazing travel mug. It lives up to its description totally - no spill, 360 degree drinking and keeps your drinks toasty for ages (we tested it as we were skeptical) and 9 hours later the drink was still nice and warm and perfectly acceptable. I cannot believe there is a better travel mug out there.'  Buy now Contigo West Loop Autoseal Travel Tumbler, from £20.95 The Contigo travel mug features a cool autoseal technology that automatically seals between sips to prevent leaks and spills. This travel cup comes in 11 vibrant colors and features thermalock double-wall vacuum insulation. Whether your drink is ice cold or piping hot, the Contigo mug locks in temperatures for several hours. The tumbler ensures that drinks stay hot up to five hours and cold up to 12 hours. The Contigo has received hundreds of positive reviews, with one customer writing: 'The best travel mug on the market, and I have tried many brands. I can't live without mine so much so I have a spare.' Buy now Luckyberg Insulated Vacuum Travel Mug, £11.99 The Luckyberg travel mug is versatile and great for taking to school, out hiking or even at the gym. The slim and sleek stainless steel design is safe and nontoxic. This travel mug fits most car cup holders and can retain temperatures for over six hours. One impressed Amazon reviewer noted: 'It keeps my drink hot for hours, it is amazing!!!' Another called it a 'fantastic flask'. Buy now Thermos ThermoCafé Translucent Desk Mug, £8.70 The ThermoCafé translucent desk mug is ideal for office use, as it comes with a handle and foam base. It is available in nine colors and features a twist lock lid. It also has slide resistant foam at the base to prevent spills and two different drinking holes. One Amazon reviewer described it as an 'excellent cup. Perfect for home or away'. Buy now SEPT MIRACLE Fashion Travel Tumbler, from £6.99 The Sept Miracle fashion travel tumbler is said to be 'unbreakable' and made for lifelong use. Made with food grade stainless steel, it's shatterproof and comes in a variety eye-catching colors with an anti-slip grip.  Buy now Cambridge Bamboo Reusable Travel Mug, from £3.99 Not only does this reusable mug save you from using a paper one, but it's made out of bamboo which is an eco-friendly alternative to plastic. The mug also comes in a variety of fun, bright colors and pretty designs.  Buy now Thermos Stainless King Travel Mug, from £21.99 The Thermos Stainless King travel mug features thermos vacuum insulation technology which keeps drinks hot for seven hours and cold for 18 hours. This travel mug is cool to the touch with hot liquids and sweat-proof with cold drinks. One Amazon reviewer noted the mugs' durability: 'Just purchased my second one of these. Had the first one nearly 3 years using it pretty much 5 days a week.' Buy now Reusable Coffee Cup by Arteesol, from £10.99 Arteesol's reusable coffee cup comes with double wall insulation, keeping drinks cold for up to ten hours and hot for up to three.  This cup uses a powder-coated finish for added insulation and won't sweat or slip in your hands. One reviewer wrote: 'This insulated cup is so useful! The choice of colors makes it a lovely gift for anyone.' Buy now Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers.   MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page. 
