food reviews
{ By Brett Lackey For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:08, 18 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7585985/NIDS-scheme-fire-single-mother-struggles-make-ends-meet-bosses-earn-thousands.html }
A single mother with a disabled son has opened up about her battles to make ends meet - while National Disability Insurance Scheme bosses earn six-figure salaries. Toni Mitchell from Toowoomba, whose 19-year-old son Josh is disabled, said she feels let down by the NDIS. A number of GoFundMe campaigns have been launched across the country from carers struggling to keep up with the massive costs of raising family members who need constant care. Ms Mitchell said she skips meals to afford care and treatment for Joshy.  The teenager who has Down syndrome, autism, hearing impairment, heart and lung disease and several other health problems, requires oxygen and life support machines.  'I've been battling with the NDIS for more than a couple of years for things to help Joshy. We are not asking for the world. Joshy eats through a pump and needs special packets of food for the pump,' Ms Mitchell told The Courier-Mail.   'I have asked for help with the costs of this food and the decision is pending. I have no choice but to go without eating and taking my own medications'.  She has asked the NDIS for assistance in putting in handrails for her bathroom to prevent her son from falling but has so far failed to have any provided to her. 'It's extremely frustrating. The stress of worrying about funding and chasing reports and filing all these reviews is huge. And then the government declares there is a surplus. And that's because of situations like these,' Ms Mitchell told Daily Mail Australia.  'We are treated like we have our hand out for every cent we can get and it is grudgingly given. Yet in reality we are asking for the basic funding for basic human rights; food, safety, communication, therapy. 'The line that has been drawn between medical and disability is wrong. Not being able to access appropriate services means funding isnt spent, then taken away. Funding therapy is cut with them telling us we can use less qualifiied people to implement plans done by the therapists, which can put our people in danger of injury and accident.'  An NDIS spokeswoman told the Courier-Mail that Josh receives 'significant' funding from the scheme, and that they were working with his family to provide 'any additional appropriate disability-related supports he needs'.  Last year there were more than 70 funding appeals to the public by struggling families, according to the publication.  Meanwhile, NDIS executives are earning massive salaries of more than $400,000, according to The Courier-Mail.  Former CEO Robert De Luca was paid $587,241 while Head of Markers, Provider, and Sector Developments Antonia Albanese was on a salary of $460,120.   Queensland health minister Steven Miles blamed the Federal Government has mismanaged the program.  'The NDIS is a great Labor reform that has helped thousands of Queenslanders living with a disability. Unfortunately, under the mismanagement of the Federal Government the NDIS has turned in to a nightmare for some who still cannot access the services they need quickly enough. It is heartbreaking to see families resort to public fundraising to get basic equipment like wheelchairs,' Mr Miles said.   He also noted the Federal Government's $3billion surplus was largely due to an underspend on the NDIS.  Daily Mail Australia has contacted the NDIS for comment.  
