food reviews
{ By Claudia Poposki For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:49, 17 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7582515/Aldi-Australia-debuts-new-look-supermarkets-change-way-shop-forever.html }
Aldi's much anticipated Queensland store with a modern makeover and better food displays will open next week - and they claim the little tweaks to the layout and signage will improve the shopping experience.  The supermarket chain's revamped store will open on next Thursday, October 24 in Brightwater, on the Sunshine Coast.  The renovation follows positive reviews after trials of the features such as new shelving that includes more stylish wood proved a success in South Australia and Western Australia. The subtle redesign will see the shelving areas expanded, particularly for fresh fruit and vegetables.  The German-owned chain has faced criticism for not having as good fresh produce as rivals Coles and Woolworths.  However, Aldi's x-factor that's allowed it to grab just under 12 per cent of the market is that it's cheaper than it's competitors.  And an Aldi Australia spokesperson said the modern look won't raise prices for customers.  'While we're delighted to be introducing these innovations, we want our customers to know they won't lead to higher prices,' an ALDI Australia spokeswoman said.  'Low prices are a big deal for ALDI. In fact, we refuse to be beaten on price. This is our fundamental point of difference and one we will never give away.'  Other new features include energy efficient chillers, better access to the check-outs with better pricing displays and signs.   'At ALDI, we are proud to call ourselves 'good different,' the spokeswoman said. 'We offer a supermarket experience that is like no other in Australia, and it's our differences that allow us to bring unbeatable value to our customers every day,' the ALDI spokeswoman said. The Brightwater store isn't the only spot getting a makeover. At least four other stores are being renovated, including North Lakes, with plans to renovate stores across the state.  Once the Brightwater store reopens it will be open seven days a week.     
