{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  22:22, 15 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7575131/Tips-tricks-brighter-smile-Five-easy-affordable-ways-whiten-teeth-home.html }
Studies have shown that over half of us are dissatisfied with the colour of our teeth, so it's little wonder that more and more people are paying for brighter, whiter smiles. Thankfully getting a white smile no longer requires a pricey dentist visit or custom-fitted bleaching trays. There is now an assortment of at-home teeth whitening remedies available that are all safe, easy to use, and often as effective as in-office treatments. Here we bring you five easy and affordable products from Amazon that will help to whiten your teeth at-home. Currently available for less than twenty pounds, this at-home teeth whitening kit is a great alternative to more expensive sessions. The kit includes teeth whitening light (heats up the peroxide to make it work quicker), trays, and gel syringes to help remove hard surface stains to give you a long lasting bright, white smile.  To use, you simply place a small bead of gel per tooth in the inside of the tray and wear it for up to 20 minutes.  Generally, the longer you keep the solution on your teeth, the whiter your teeth become. However, it's important to not leave them on for longer than the recommended time as this can damage gums and erode tooth enamel. Buy now on Amazon  The Oral-B Pro 2 2500 CrossAction Electric Toothbrush is better than your trusty manual model for teeth whitening, since vibrations remove more stains. Despite the fact Oral B claims it will gently whiten your teeth from first use, you must remember an electric toothbrush isn't a magic wand and it still requires morning and night use for best results.  With over 4,600 5-star reviews on Amazon, it's no surprise that this Oral-B toothbrush is a best-seller. Better yet, users rate the toothbrush highly for its 'whitening capabilities' and it's a fraction of the cost of many other electric toothbrushes that can cost anywhere up to £240. Yes, really. Buy now on Amazon The Colgate Max White Expert Complete Whitening Toothpaste claims to help reverse years of teeth discolouration and yellowing caused by food and drink. The toothpaste combines professional whitening ingredients that dentists use to remove deep-set stains and is enamel-safe.  One user stated that the whitening toothpaste is 'amazing' and 'leaves your mouth feeling clean and smelling fresh all day'. Another customer who has been using the toothpaste for a while noted how the yellowing on their teeth is nearly gone. Buy now on Amazon  The Breett Teeth Whitening Pen contains a gel packed with a natural, safe and fast-acting ingredients to help you achieve a whiter smile. This whitening pen is great for hard to reach spots that teeth whitening strips miss, plus the flexible brush tips make it easy to paint the whitening gel inside said crevices.  To use, you dispense the gel onto the brush, apply a thin layer directly to your teeth, leave on for up to 20 minutes and then rinse. Results aren't as fast-acting as other teeth whitening options listed here, but despite this users highly rate the pen's ease of use and whitening capabilities.  Buy now on Amazon  Boasting an average 4.3-star rating and over 1,800 reviews on Amazon, these vegan-friendly teeth whitening strips from Smile:Now are formulated by UK dentists and designed to be used for 30 minutes, once a day for two weeks.  The strips' whitening abilities have earned them the number one spot in Teeth Whitener Strips on Amazon. One customer who said the strips didn't leave their teeth sensitive added that they've 'received so many compliments' on how white their teeth appear. For best results, make sure to blot your teeth with tissue before use to remove saliva so there's no barrier between the strips and your teeth. Buy now on Amazon Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers.  MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.     
