{ By Ben Rabinovich For Mailonline   Published:  19:43, 14 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7563811/From-Pinch-Nom-Michelle-Obamas-10-best-books-2019-according-Amazon.html }
Since the holiday season is approaching, we decided to take a look at the best-selling books of 2019 on Amazon to give you an idea of what people are reading, buying and gifting. At the time of writing, top new bestsellers such as Elton John's autobiography, Andrew Ridgeley's Wham! George & Me and the upcoming Adam Kay non-fiction book Twas the Nightshift Before Christmas have yet to soar up the overall annual charts. Meanwhile, Margaret Atwood's The Testaments, the highly-anticipated sequel to The Handmaid's Tale, just misses out on the top ten list, as does David Walliams' The World's Worst Teachers. Nevertheless, the top ten books of 2019 are still an interesting mix of health and lifestyle books, fascinating nonfiction, and children's stories. Here are the top ten books of 2019 so far, according to Amazon. It shouldn't come as any surprise that Pinch of Nom is the best-selling book of 2019 so far. After all, it managed to beat two sale records previously held by Jamie Oliver, and became the first book ever to reach 500,000 sales in five weeks.  It is the ninth fastest-selling book of any description, just behind works by JK Rowling, Dan Brown and EL James. As the title states, the book is simply a collection of 100 slimming recipes designed to appeal to everyone from experienced cooks to culinary novices.  It has an impressive 4.8 out of 5 average star rating from nearly 7,500 reviews, many of which praise the book's straightforwardness and simplicity. Popular recipes include Cajun bean soup, beef ragu fettuccine and tandoori kitchen kebab. There are also 33 vegetarian recipes. Buy now  Like Pinch of Nom, Mrs Hinch is one of the biggest trends of 2019. The former hairdresser skyrocketed into the public consciousness with her lifestyle book'Hinch Yourself Happy, which, in the style of Marie Kondo, seeks to help people achieve peace of mind through cleaning house.  The book has become the number one Sunday Times bestseller and has an average 4.7-star rating on Amazon, with a staggering 89 percent of reviews giving the book five stars. It features useful lists that help you tackle every room in the house, as well as Mrs. Hinch's personal recommendations for cleaning products.  One reviewer wrote: 'Here she tells us what actually works! Tried and tested. And this book has all of her loves in one handy place to review back to with all of her favourite how to cleans alongside with them. Ample to run a household, which is all I need.' Buy now  It's a testament to the quality of Adam Kay's This is Going to Hurt that it is the third best-selling book of 2019—it was originally published in September 2017.  Since then it has sold over 1.5 million copies, won countless prizes and awards and is being adapted into an eight-part TV series on BBC 2.  Kay's book is a journey into the heart of the NHS system, with insights and stories from the author's many years as a junior doctor. It currently holds an average 4.8 star rating on Amazon, with 88 per cent of reviews being five stars. Buy now   Dr Michael Mosley's The Fast 800 is fourth on Amazon's top ten best-selling books of 2019. The book presents intermittent fasting and 800 calorie limit as the key to manageable and successful weight loss.  It's proven to be a hit with Amazon customers, who have rated the book an average of 4.6 out of five stars.  One reader said: 'The book is full of plain English explanations of the latest research, and has practical instructions on how to use this diet yourself. There are also a lot of recipes for meals which fit into the diet. Having used intermittent fasting over the past two years, I'd recommend this book to anyone who wants to lose weight or increase their energy levels.' Buy now  The king of cookbooks stormed into the 2019 best-sellers list with a new recipe book for vegetarians. The book is full of simple meat-free recipes such as spinach pancakes, stuffed curried aubergines and a mushroom stroganoff.  It has chapters dedicated to burgers, traybakes, noodles, soups, brunch and more. In total there are over 100 vegetarian recipes.  Amazon reviews have been overwhelmingly positive, praising 'Veg's' variety of recipes and the further suggestions on how to alter them. One reviewer described it as a 'must have for all veggies' and the only cookbook they will ever need. Buy now  Heather Morris's novel based on the true story of Lali Sokolov, a Jew who tattooed other prisoners in Auschwitz, quickly became an international best-seller.  The incredible story of Sokolov falling in love with a girl he was tattooing struck a powerful chord with readers around the world.  However, it's not without controversy as the book has been criticised for inaccuracies that 'blur the authenticity' of real history. Buy now  On the back of the incredible success of Pinch of Nom, Featherstone and Davies followed up with a special food planer that can help readers stay on track with their diet. The book also suggests brand new Pinch of Nom recipes for each new week.  Readers can keep track of the changes in weight, their goals for the week as well as be reminded of the positives of the previous seven days. Each week on the planner is divided into the seven days, in which readers record their meals, two snacks and any water or treats they had.  One satisfied reviewer wrote: 'Loving the size of this planner. It's just right. Plenty of space to write in without being massive and bulky. It's really good quality too. Will work for whatever diet/healthy eating plan you follow. The extra recipes included look amazing and I can't wait to try them. Thank you PON for another fantastic tool for us all to use in our weight loss journeys.' Buy now  In recent years, TV star David Walliams has reinvented himself as a successful children's books writer and Fing is one his 2019 offerings.  The book follows Mr and Mrs Meek, obsequious parents who do everything they can to satisfy their monstrous daughter, Myrtle. So when Myrtle, demands a Fing, her parents embark on a rip-roaring, hilarious journey.  The book has received positive reviews from parents and children alike. One parent wrote: 'My daughter's just finished it. She devours David Walliams books, lost count how many times she's re-read them all! Can't wait for the next one.' Buy now  The attention-grabbing headline hammers home what this best-seller is about: parents and children.  Psychotherapist Philippa navigates the complex relationship between parent and progeny, broadening horizons, challenging preconceptions and giving advice on everything from how to react to children's painting to a serious confession.  One reviewer wrote: 'I thought this book was superb but more than that, after about ten minutes I felt it was already changing my behaviour!' Buy now  She may have been in the international spotlight since the mid-noughties, but Becoming is Michelle Obama in her own words.  It's a memoir that chronicles everything from her childhood on the South Side of Chicago to the eight years in 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.  A staggering 89 per cent of the reviews on Amazon are 5 stars. One reviewer described Becoming as 'one of the most fascinating and informative books'. Buy now  Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page. 
