{ By Kayla Brantley For Dailymail.com    Published:  16:06, 14 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7571519/Popeyes-bringing-Cajun-turkey-table-Thanksgiving.html }
Popeyes wants to bring their Cajun flavor into your home for Thanksgiving this year.  The fast food chain announced that it will offer a pre-cooked 13 to 16lb Cajun-Style Turkey for $39.99 this season.  Before you buy the bird, the turkey is hand-rubbed and infused with zesty Louisiana-style seasonings, slow-cooked and then flash-fried for a crispy skin.  But don't expect the same fast food service that you typically get from Popeyes.  The turkey is shipped on ice, so it will need to be thawed and then put into the oven for about two and half hours.   The turkeys will be sold at participating locations nationwide but consumers can pre-order through their local Popeyes over the phone or in person. Customers will need to preheat the oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit and let the bird bake for two to two and a half hours, until the turkey reaches 140 degrees inside.  Let it stand for 20 minutes and then it'll be ready to be carved up and served at the dinner table, all you have to do is add the side dishes.   This isn't the first time Popeyes has offered Thanksgiving turkeys.  In 2017, The Takeout gave the bird rave reviews, writing: 'The interior breast meat was incomparably juicy, a moistness usually only accomplished via brining.' With the success of Popeye's chicken sandwich, which was sold out nationwide after two weeks, the chain continues to offer new goodies.    Last month, the fast food chain announced that it was bringing back its Pumpkin Cream Cheese Pies to ring in the fall season.  The $1.19 pies are described as a 'spiced pumpkin pie and cream cheese filling, all wrapped in a flaky golden brown pie crust' and coated in cinnamon and sugar. The seasonal dessert was first introduced back in 2014 as a limited-time season dessert option, but hasn't been seen since.  Now, five years later, the snack has re-emerged. 
