{ By Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  11:31, 14 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7570493/The-Irishman-wows-critics-call-Martin-Scorseses-best-film-decades.html }
The Irishman received rave reviews from critics upon its premiere at the closing gala of the BFI London Film Festival on Sunday night. Martin Scorsese's latest gangster epic, which stars Hollywood legends Robert De Niro, Al Pacino, and Joe Pesci amongst others, was heralded as one of the director's best works to date as he returns to the genre he defined. The drama sees the Taxi Driver star, 76, take on the role of Frank 'The Irishman' Sheeran, a real-life hitman who reflects on his life working for union leader Jimmy Hoffa and the Bufalino crime family.  Scorsese's latest has garnered five star reviews from critics almost across the board, as they heaped praise on the iconic filmmaker.    The film is a welcome return for the director, as he lavishes in the gangster genre he has come to define with this epic, fascinating drama that sees De Niro give a chilling and powerful performance as Sheeran. While it clocks in at a lengthy 209 minutes, there's rarely a moment where The Irishman is burdened by this run-time, thanks to its incredible lead stars, masterful direction and poignant storyline. Given the film's focus is placed on Frank and his dealings with Hoffa and the Bufalino crime family, it is noticeable that the film doesn't give its female characters a chance to shine as they remain firmly in the background as stoic, silent figures. Variety's Owen Gleiberman called the film a 'coldly enthralling, long-form knockout' that's 'bold and new', as he admitted that it was 'the film that a lot of us wanted to see from Scorsese.'   Of the film's epic run-time, he wrote: 'At 209 minutes, The Irishman is longer than The Godfather or The Godfather Part II, longer than Titanic or any of the Lord of the Rings films ­— and that, on the face of it, could make it seem intimidating, like a mountain you have to climb.  'One might even ask: "Why, in the age of skittery attention spans, did Scorsese choose to make a three-and-a-half-hour magnum opus for Netflix?" Scorsese, in contrast to what he did in the overly knotted-up “Casino,” is working here at full power — the jittery sweep of his voice, the intuitive music of his camera movement, the classic volcanic eruptions of male rage. -  Owen Gleiberman, Variety No-one but Scorsese and this glorious cast could have made this movie live as richly and compellingly as it does, and persuade us that its tropes and images are still vital. - Peter Bradshaw, Guardian  What lifts The Irishman head and shoulders above every other recent crime film is that it doesn’t end when the bodies are buried and the gangsters are locked up. Instead it becomes a powerful, painful study of regret but not remorse. - Ian Freer, Empire Magazine While it clocks in at a lengthy 209 minutes, there's rarely a moment where The Irishman is burdened by this run-time, thanks to its incredible lead stars, masterful direction and poignant storyline. - Roxy Simons, MailOnline  It would be unchivalrous to put a date on when De Niro was last this good. But he’s sensational – giving a grippingly subtle, internalised performance that melts through the de-ageing process. - Robbie Collin, The Telegraph Nothing will sell you fully on Scorsese’s biggest gamble, digitally de-aging his cast so that they can play their own thirtysomething characters - Joshua Rothkopf, Time Out  'But the answer, it turns out, is rather up-to-the-minute. That running time is a mere blip in the world of binge-watching; if The Irishman weren’t a movie at all but, in fact, a show (a limited series, say), we’d be talking all of three episodes.' Meanwhile, The Guardian's Peter Bradshaw claimed that the film was Scorsese's 'finest film for 30 years' as he said: 'No-one but Scorsese and this glorious cast could have made this movie live as richly and compellingly as it does, and persuade us that its tropes and images are still vital.  'We have had ample opportunity to tire of the mob, the politicians, Florida, Cuba and so on. 'But Scorsese brings it back into a scalpel-sharp focus, especially with a new emphasis on Frank’s spiritual devastation and guilt: a man who had long ago amputated his ability to feel remorse and now is unable to come to terms with his feelings. It is another massive achievement for Scorsese.' Empire Magazine's Ian Freer claimed that while the film 'slightly loses its focus' in the middle, its central performances, direction and story helps make the film as powerful as it is. 'The film is better when it sticks to the dynamics between the characters and it picks up superbly as the various conflicts come together,' he wrote. 'But what lifts The Irishman head and shoulders above every other recent crime film is that it doesn’t end when the bodies are buried and the gangsters are locked up. Instead it becomes a powerful, painful study of regret but not remorse.' He went on to add: 'Scorsese delivers a stunning, gangster flick but The Irishman is so much more, a melancholy eulogy for growing old and losing your humanity.'  The Telegraph's Robbie Collin looked towards Scorsese's most recent filmography, as he wrote: 'As Scorsese late-career masterpieces go, The Irishman splits the difference between Silence and The Wolf of Wall Street: this is a weighty, contemplative work, but one that moves like lightning for its entire three-and-a-quarter hours plus credits, and sporadically shakes with darkly comic amusement. 'It would be unchivalrous to put a date on when De Niro was last this good. But he’s sensational – giving a grippingly subtle, internalised performance that melts through the de-ageing process as if it were no more than make-up.'  Meanwhile, Time Out's Joshua Rothkopf gave the film four stars, as he was less convinced by the film's use of de-aging technology. 'Nothing will sell you fully on Scorsese’s biggest gamble, digitally de-aging his cast so that they can play their own thirtysomething characters,' he wrote.  'Everyone looks unnaturally pinkish and puffy-faced, like 50-year-olds who have recently discovered hair dye.' 'After a while, you adjust, or rather, you get tired of probing the slightly-off evidence of your eyes (and the headache it produces). There’s a lot of fun to distract you.'  The Irishman is set to be released in cinemas on November 1 ahead of its launch on Netflix.  
