{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  08:45, 11 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-7559255/Morrisons-2-mince-pies-crowned-best-UK-second-year-running-BBC-Good-Food-Xmas-awards.html }
With Christmas just 75 days away, the BBC's highly anticipated Christmas Good Food awards have been announced - ready for those who are already planning their festive feasts. Experts at the magazine have blind taste-tested more than 200 products across 24 different categories, from 12 of the UK's top supermarkets. From party canapés and Christmas lunch essentials to puddings and pastries, they claim this helps curate the ultimate shopping list for festive food. All of the categories, which include stollen, stuffing and smoked salmon, are rated individually based on taste, texture and appearance.  Morrisons took home the top prize in the best mince pies category for their The Best All-butter Deep-filled Mince Pies, which cost £2 for a pack of six, for the second year running.  Judges said they were 'a clear favourite', adding: 'These taste like traditional, homemade mince pies. The mincemeat is nicely spiced, juicy and packed with whole, plump pieces of fruit, while the pastry is short and buttery.'  The supermarket also took home prizes for best vegetarian main and best classic panettone. Meanwhile upmarket food stores Waitrose and M&S won four awards each.   M&S scored top marks in the best savoury canapés (meat or fish), as well as best vegan dessert, best gluten-free mince pies and best yule log categories.  For Waitrose & Partners, winning categories included best traditional centrepiece dessert, best chocolate centrepiece dessert, best stollen and best Christmas cake.  Aldi and Lidl were both awarded two gongs each, with Aldi picking up best vegan main and Lidl taking home best gammon.  The winners were selected from a range of categories, including best savoury canapés, best pigs in blankets, best vegetarian and vegan canapés and mains, best alternative meat centrepiece and best gravy.  There are also awards for the best sides, gluten-free mince pies, yule log, Christmas pudding and desserts. Natalie Hardwick, BBC Good Food e-commerce and reviews editor, said: 'We always look forward to judging our annual Christmas Taste Awards so we can see how supermarkets have flexed their creative muscles to develop unique, festive products. This year didn't disappoint.  'We saw strong entries in our growing vegetarian and vegan categories, which demonstrates that retailers are reflecting the nation's changing eating habits.  'There was a lot of innovation on show in categories such as desserts and canapés. But, after blind-tasting more than 200 supermarket buys, we found that many of our favourites were old classics, proving that taking festive food back to basics and doing it really well is a winning formula.' BEST CHRISTMAS PUDDING   Deluxe 24-month matured Christmas pudding (907g), £11.99, Lidl This plump, juicy pud is packed with plenty of whole fruit and nuts and a balanced level of spice and peel, providing a moreish, lasting flavour. Its ample size and pronounced but not too strong brandy flavour makes it great for the whole family. BEST GLUTEN FREE CHRISTMAS PUDDING   Free From Christmas pudding (454g), £3.75, Tesco Filled with plump raisins and whole toasted nuts, this glossy, gluten-free pudding offers a good level of juiciness without being too sickly sweet. Praised for having a nice balance of spice, booze and citrus flavours as well as a good texture and appealing outer shine, it was also one of the larger puds we tried, so would cater well for a crowd. BEST STOLLEN   Heston from Waitrose pistachio stollen loaf, £8, Waitrose & Partners Golden, spice-laced, buttery brioche dough and a perfectly soft marzipan centre makes this stollen a real standout. Although the shape is traditional, its syrupy apricot glaze and topping of toasted flaked almonds, verdant pistachios and sweet dried cherries helped elevate this above its rivals. BEST SMOKED SALMON  Co-op Irresistible Beech & Oak Smoked Salmon (100g), £4, Co-op A combination of pleasantly subtle smoke; a soft, almost buttery texture and natural colour made this our clear winner. According to our judges, it has an 'artisan smokehouse feel', giving it a sense of luxury – perfect for breakfast with scrambled eggs. BEST STUFFING   Extra Special pigs in blankets on a festive feast (694g), £5, Asda Displaying simple but genius innovation, this 2-in-1 stuffing and pigs in blankets centrepiece was a real hit with the judges. A loaf of old-school stuffing (reminiscent of household-favourite packet sage & onion stuffing mix) is topped with bacon-wrapped sausages in the ideal shape and size for easy sharing. BEST VEGAN DESSERT   Vegan chocolate & cherry dessert (585g), £10, M&S A standout winner, this impressed with its balance of rich chocolate and sharp, sour cherry. It tastes festive and indulgent, and 'you wouldn't know it's vegan' – high praise indeed. BEST CHRISTMAS CAKE   Waitrose & Partners No 1 richly fruited Christmas cake (1.3kg), £16, Waitrose & Partners This mature, deeply flavoured Christmas cake ticked all the boxes. Not only is it nutty, boozy, packed with plump fruit, heavy with citrus and nicely spiced, it also has – according to our judges – the perfect ratio of icing, marzipan and cake. BEST GAMMON   Deluxe gammon with a spiced rum glaze and a pineapple topping (1.4kg), £11.99, Lidl A welcome break from traditional Christmas flavours, this is cooked in a spiced rum glaze and topped with pineapple rings, which not only look attractive but provide a hit of sweetness to balance the saltiness of the meat. The meat itself has a good pork flavour and an open, springy texture. BEST VEGAN MAIN   Specially Selected Christmas wreath (550g), £3.99, Aldi A proper centrepiece that we'd be proud to serve to vegans or vegetarians. This pretty wreath is made with golden, flaky pastry, encasing a hearty filling of sweet butternut squash, dried fruit, earthy mushrooms and lentils. It's well seasoned and has a pleasant flavour, and would go well with wholegrain mustard, cranberry sauce or vegan gravy. BEST VEGETARIAN MAIN   The Best layered vegetable tart (500g), £4, Morrisons This was commended by our judges for its homemade look and taste, thanks to its buttery, flaky pastry that produces the perfect crunch when cut. The filling is festive and colourful, and balances earthy, tender beetroot with sweet chestnuts, toasty nuts and a prominent thyme flavour. BEST MINCE PIES   The Best all-butter deep-filled mince pies (pack of six), £2, Morrisons A clear favourite, these taste like traditional, homemade mince pies. The mincemeat is nicely spiced, juicy and packed with whole, plump pieces of fruit, while the pastry is short and buttery. BEST GLUTEN FREE MINCE PIES   M&S made without gluten mince pies (pack of four), £2.50, M&S These star-topped pies have an appealing homemade look. The pastry is short and crumbly with a sweet, buttery taste, while the filling is contrastingly sharp with a good level of spicing and chunky fruit. BEST PIGS IN BLANKETS   Taste the Difference British pork chipolatas wrapped in bacon (pack of six, 260g), £3.50, Sainsbury's Evenly crisped and tightly coiled streaky bacon encases pleasantly peppery chipolatas. The sausage meat has a subtle porky flavour that complements the saltiness of the bacon. BEST GRAVY   Taste the Difference Christmas gravy for chicken & turkey (450g), £3.15, Sainsbury's This has a clean poultry flavour, pleasant vegetal base and fairly thick yet pourable consistency. BEST CRANBERRY SAUCE   Extra Special cranberry sauce with port, £1.39, Asda A good balance of sweet and bitter, a nice, slightly jammy texture and whole, freshly cooked cranberries made this dark, sticky sauce stand out. BEST ALTERNATIVE MEAT CENTRE PIECE   Specially Selected beef rib joint with salt & pepper seasoning (1.1-2.7kg), £12.99 per kg, Aldi This two-bone rib joint looks impressive and special on the table. The meat is tender and juicy with good fat and plenty of seasoning throughout, plus the heady, peppery crumb works wonders with the beef flavour. BEST TRADITIONAL CENTRE PIECE DESSERT   Heston from Waitrose 'The Fig & Port Cheese Cake' (675g), £12, Waitrose & Partners Don't be fooled into thinking this Heston creation (designed to look like a wheel of cheese on a cheeseboard) is just a gimmick. This clever dessert combines creamy, featherlight cheesecake with a complementary fig & port 'chutney'-style filling and a 'cheeseboard' made from crisp, buttery biscuit. Launching 13 December. BEST CHOCOLATE CENTREPIECE DESSERT   Waitrose & Partners the giant Jaffa cake dessert (650g), £13, Waitrose & Partners This elegant layered dessert has a pronounced, natural chocolate orange flavour that fully lives up to the nostalgic Jaffa title. Its slender shape, distinct layers, and shiny lustre finish make this easy-to-portion pudding look as if it's come from a fancy French patisserie. Launching 13 December. BEST VEGAN CANAPES  No bull burger sliders (275g), £4, Iceland A real crowd-pleaser, these taste like fast-food burgers but with an extra mustardy kick, fresh tomato chutney and a tender vegan patty that has a good level of bite and umami hit. Although they can be a little messy to eat, they're a good size for a canapé with a clear identity. BEST VEGETARIAN CANAPES  Vegetable gyoza with soy & chilli dip, £2, Asda These crispy-edged, Japanese-style gyoza dumplings with a rich, umami filling and soy-ginger dipping sauce were unanimously loved by our panel. A simple but excellent canapé, these look great, are easy to eat and full of flavour. BEST SAVOURY CANAPES (meat or fish)  Pulled ham & rarebit crumpets (pack of 10, 236g), £7, M&S Creamy, distinctly mustardy rarebit with subtle notes of bitter ale works perfectly with the salty-sweet glazed ham hock topping and light crumpet base. They feel modern yet festive – a real flavour bomb in just one mouthful, perfect for a party. BEST SWEET CANAPES   Co-op Irresistible Belgian chocolate cups (214g), £3.50, Co-op These attractive-looking mini morsels come in two distinct, punchy flavours to please all partygoers. Choose from sweet, tangy passionfruit with white chocolate or rich chocolate with salted caramel. BEST YULE LOG  M&S woodland yule log (940g), £15, M&S A showstopper through and through, the novel tree-stump design of this cake (with added woodland toadstools and acorns) makes it stand out at first glance, then it goes on to wow in flavour and texture too. Cleverly coiled chocolate sponge – light, yet certainly not dry – melds perfectly with a sweet buttercream, rich ganache and slightly bitter cocoa dusting. BEST PANETTONE   The Best classic panettone (750g), £8, Morrisons With a golden, buttery and light (but not remotely dry) crumb; juicy, well-distributed fruit and subtle alcohol kick, this panettone is a no-frills knockout that feels supremely well made.   
