{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  20:01, 8 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7502635/Thousands-Amazon-shoppers-obsessed-absolutely-amazing-Instant-Pot.html }
The Instant Pot has skyrocketed in popularity over the past few years thanks to its ability to steam, warm, sauté and even bake a cake in about half the time. In short, it's an electric pressure cooker and slow cooker in one, aka the multi-functional kitchen machine of your dreams. But don't just take our word for it. We pored over hundreds of reviews and ratings, and according to Amazon shoppers the Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker is the best multicooker your money can buy. Best yet, the programmable pressure cooker won't burn a hole in your wallet as Amazon are now offering 47 per cent off the popular appliance, putting it at a very reasonable £89.99. The kitchen gadget has an average 4.7-star rating from more than 2,300 glowing reviews on Amazon.  One instant pot-obsessed reviewer said: 'I call this the Magic Pot - because it's awesome. You can switch it from sauté mode, to pressure cooker/hot pot etc. It cooks things really, really, well in no time.' Another added: 'I love love love the Instant pot. For working mums it's the best thing - time saving and cooks perfect meals. It even tells you if you are burning your food!!!! Great buy.' One Amazon shopper remarked how the Instant Pot whips up wholesome meals in less than no time: 'I've used this to make curries, lamb roasts even a biryani.  The Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker is a seven-in-one automatic electric pressure cooker that claims to speed up cooking by two to six times and to use up to 70 per cent less energy. It acts as a 'twin pressure' pressure cooker, as well as a slow cooker, rice cooker, steamer, sauteing machine, yoghurt maker and food warmer. It has 14 built-in programmes, as well as a 24-hour timer for delayed cooking. The automatic keep-warm holds the temperature of the food until you serve it for up to ten hours. One of the major perks of the Instant Pot is that it reportedly doesn't produce any noise, leak any steam and there's no risk of it exploding - unlike old, traditional pressure cookers. Some reviewers also say it takes up a lot less work surface space than other electric pressure cookers.  'Being a mum of two this has really come in handy. Makes my life so much easier. I made a roast Lamb shoulder in 55 min. That would usually take 5 hours!' And another happy customer purchased not one, but two Instant Pots so they can 'make main meals and desserts'. Who needs pans, a microwave, or roasting tins?  With 14 pre-set cooking functions, the Instant Pot perfect for anyone with a busy schedule and is super easy to use (despite its overwhelming control panel).  All the cooking programs, including slow cooking, are fully timer controlled and you can even delay your cooking time for up to 24 hours, so you can make creamy delicious slow cooker porridge overnight. When the Instant Pot has finished the cooking cycle it automatically switches to keep warm for up to ten hours keeping your food at the perfect temperature. And if you want to cook a stew – just add the ingredients, press a button and walk away. It's that simple. Gordon Ramsay eat your heart out! Despite newer versions with notable improvements being readily available, the Instant Pot Duo V2 7-in-1 Electric Pressure Cooker is still the best mid-priced multicooker you can buy according to shoppers and makes a great entry point into electric pressure cooking or as a gift. Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers. MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page.  
