{ By Megan Harney   Published:  20:43, 4 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7538941/Eddie-Murphy-gets-rave-reviews-movie-Dolemite-Name.html }
Eddie Murphy has returned. Sure, the actor and father of 10 hasn't been around for a while, and his new movie Dolemite Is My Name is getting rave reviews, but Murphy doesn’t want you to call it a comeback. ‘I've been making movies for almost 40 years, and every five years I'm in my comeback - they say I'm coming back,’ Murphy said. ‘But (Dolemite is My Name) is more a bookend than it is a comeback, because I'm never going to be making movies like I used to make movies,’ the comedian added. Known for his performances in The Nutty Professor, Coming to America and the Shrek series, Murphy originally rocketed to stardom in the 1980s as a cast member on Saturday Night Live. After starring in mega hits such as Beverly Hills Cop and Trading Places, the comedian pivoted to more family friendly flicks like The Nutty Professor and Dr. Dolittle.  Critics speculated Murphy’s 2006 Academy Award nominated performance in Dreamgirls would turn the tides for his career, but his roles in Tower Heist and Mr. Church left much to be desired for many. More recently, Murphy’s personal life has been making headlines. After many tumultuous relationships including a quiet romance with Whitney Houston and a love affair with Spice Girl Mel B, the comedian became a father for the 10th time when his fiancée gave birth to their second child together in December 2018. Now 58, critics are calling Murphy’s performance in Dolemite Is My Name a career best. In the film, he plays the late real-life American celebrity, Rudy Ray Moore, a once struggling comedy and rap pioneer who found success in the 1970s through his obscene, kung-fu fighting alter ego Dolemite. ‘He (Moore) is just a great inspirational character. He believes in himself, that's what his biggest thing is,’ said Murphy. Yet as much as Murphy appears to be the perfect actor to embody Moore, who died in 2008, he says their careers couldn't be more different.  ‘The only thing I ever auditioned for was Saturday Night Live... I came as close as you can come to walking out of heaven right into Hollywood. ‘I've had such a charmed life my biopic would be boring.’ But Murphy isn’t finished yet. He's working on two new movies - Coming 2 America and Beverly Hills Cop 4 - sequels to two of his most successful films in the 1980s. Aside from that, Murphy says he is going to focus on getting back to his first love, stand up, ‘unless, you know, Quentin Tarantino or Spielberg or Martin Scorsese or, you know, some genius dude or Spike (Lee) has something really incredible. ‘I'm 58 now and I like nothing more than to just be at home on the couch within earshot of the children.’   
