food reviews
{ By Nick Suarez For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:02, 4 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7233919/Best-beer-accessories-10-things-beer-lover-needs.html }
Whether down at the pub, by the sea, or in the comfort of your own home, there's nothing better than a cold beer after a long day.  And with an explosion in the number of beer festivals, brewery tours and ale trails, interest in beer has never been greater. If you enjoy a pilsner, lager, ale or stout, you're spoilt for choice when it comes to accessories for beer drinkers. Luckily, Amazon has every beer lover covered. Here, we've rounded up the ten must-have accessories for every beer fan, whether you're a casual ale drinker or a craft beer connoisseur. The uKeg 64 separates the casual drinker from the craft beer aficionado. The pressurised growler keeps your drink fresh for weeks while carbonating your beer to the optimum level, and vacuum insulation ensures your drink stays cold all day. GrowlerWerks' uKeg also looks the part, and with a capacity of four pints it is the perfect companion for a barbecue or beach trip with friends. It is the number one best-selling keg on Amazon right now. As one reviewer puts it: 'The keg is super high quality and b-e-a-utiful.'  Buy now on Amazon  This innovative beer tap lets you pull the perfect pint from the comfort of your own home. It looks great, and wouldn't feel out of place as a permanent feature on your kitchen side. The Sub holds two litres of chilled, pressured beer loaded from a growing range of compatible kegs (called Torps, which are sold separately). The decent variation of brands currently available include Heineken, Tiger, and Le Chouffe. As one promising Amazon review says: 'A great present. Stylish, goes in the kitchen perfectly.' Another simply states: 'Pours a perfect pint everytime.'  Buy now on Amazon   The premium choice for dispensing beer. The Philips HD 3620/25 may be on the higher end of the price range, but this is for good reason - it looks fantastic, has a superb build quality and (most importantly) pours cold, high-quality draught beer. The LCD display indicates temperature, volume and freshness, and it can be used with a choice of various beer kegs. The smart piece of kit which has won heavy praise in reviews, with an average star rating of 4.4 out of 5. As one happy customer said: 'It's like buying a beer in the pub.'  Buy now on Amazon   If you want a simple way to get the perfect pint from a can, the JMP The Home beer pump is a great option.  The stylish device turns canned beer into draught beer with its easy-pour nozzle, which is certain to impress during a night in with friends. One enthusiastic review said: 'Best thing I bought all year, you can actually taste the difference, [it] takes away that horrible can taste.' Buy now on Amazon   This cooler bag is perfect for the great outdoors, whether you're planning trips to the beach, hiking, picnics, camping, or fishing. The days of bulky ice boxes are numbered - Icemule rolls and stores easily, and is fully collapsible, which makes it perfect for traveling to your destination.  And with a capacity of 30 cans (the official measurement of beer-lovers), you'll have more than enough ice-cold refreshment for a day out.  Buy now on Amazon   The Beer Me Bag is a great companion for BYOB parties, barbecues or other outdoor gatherings.  It can firmly and safely hold up to 8 bottles of all typical sizes and formats, and has a smart and foldable design to make it compact and easy to carry around. As one happy reviewer puts it: 'This is brilliant. Always have it in the car with me and take it into the supermarket to stock up. It's sturdy and is great to carry the bottles when full, and keeps the bottles in place whilst driving around.'   Buy now on Amazon   Gone are the days of lukewarm beer with this handy accessory from Wommty.  The number one bestseller for drink coolies on Amazon, this great product keeps your beer refreshingly cold with its waterproof neoprene material, while your hands stay dry. Its anti-slip quality means you won't drop your favourite beverage - although even if you did, the neoprene sleeve would protect the bottle. It comes in six bold colours and is ideal for the outdoors.  Buy now on Amazon   Beer cooler not to your tastes? The LAMORE beer chiller stick may be more up your street.  Made with stainless steel and food grade silicone, these beer chillers need just 40 minutes in the fridge before you can insert them into your beverage. One happy purchaser posted: 'These work better than I imagined they would! Kept my beer crispy cold as promised. Who doesn't want ice cold beer?'  Buy now on Amazon   The beer-lovers Bible is back with its 2019 edition, featuring recommended pubs across the UK that serve the best real ale. CAMRA's guide is completely independent, and includes a unique section which lists every brewery - micro, regional and national - that produces real ale across the country.  The Good Beer Guide is a great companion for beer enthusiasts planning an ale trail, or wanting to experience the UK's finest pubs.  Buy now on Amazon   Tired of losing the fizz in your beer? With these reusable bottle caps you won't waste another drink because it went flat. The reusable caps come in six different colours (no more forgetting which drink is yours) and they're easy to wash and use again.  One happy customer stated: 'Great bottle tops for open beer. Just as fresh the next day'.    Buy now on Amazon   MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page. 
