food reviews
{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  08:21, 1 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7522047/Masterchef-winner-Simon-Wood-brands-vegans-ridiculous-d-cks.html }
MasterChef winner Simon Wood has attacked vegan customers in a furious Facebook tirade branding them 'd***s' and 'ridiculous people'. The chef, 42, was responding to bad Facebook reviews of his Manchester restaurant after vegan customers berated the lack of plant-based options on the menu.  Simon, who won the series in 2015 as a single father-of-four, opened Wood Manchester in September 2017 and it was awarded Two AA Rosettes in the 2019 Michelin Guide. The row started when Facebook user Richard McCormick said he wouldn't recommend the upmarket restaurant because of the chef's 'aggressive and rude' attitude to vegans.  Responding, Simon said 'Sorry for your disappointment d***'.  Richard responded: 'I mean, being called a d*** by a chef is a little bit unprofessional. 'I have an issue with the attitude this business has to the vegan community (which I personally think is wrong) and I think people should be made aware of this. 'I am well within my right to voice this opinion. I see this far too often, I've worked within hospitality and I see the widespread close minded attitude this industry has on vegan attitudes. 'Turning customers away and refusing to cater to a customer will only get you so far. Ten years down the line when people realise how cruel your industry is, how many animals have died to satisfy your taste buds, you will be sat with an empty restaurant.' The official Wood Restaurant Group account then replied saying: 'Cheers D*** (Short for Richard). I'll worry about it in ten years then. Have a great weekend'  In a second indictment, the raging restaurateur hit back at a customer who complained the chef was unable to adapt his food.  Jake Norris posted on the Wood Restaurant Group Facebook page after a visit to the central Manchester diner.  He wrote: 'Chef can't adapt to cook vegan food! Poor. Disappointing food.'  Clearly irked, owner Simon replied: 'Hi Jake, this is Simon Wood. It's not a given that I should adapt my menu to suit your preference. 'If you want vegan food go to a vegan restaurant..... which incidentally if i went to one and asked for a steak I wouldn't get one. 'Nor would I expect to do so. Nor would I not recommend them for not giving me something I want. You ridiculous person.' The comments proved controversial with many disgruntled vegans attacking the chef, while other customers rushed to his defence, saying vegans shouldn't automatically get special treatment.  Fellow MasterChef contestant Scott Eckersley wrote: 'Surely it's wise to check if the menu accommodates this option before going no? I'd be fair miffed if I'd made my career in making non-vegan meals and am widely know for it, then get someone turning up expecting you to change your whole ideal just because they don't like what you cook (animal in this case).  'That's the equivalent madness of going to KFC and asking for a tofu sandwich. You know the places doesn't do them. But you just go and ask anyway because, hey you're vegan and you're so special. It doesn't work like that. PRO TIP: do your research [sic]'. While others replied saying: 'What a horrendous attitude, you could of at least been polite about it. But to take such an aggressive and narrow minded approach. It’s 2019 is it really too much to ask for you to be open and receptive to the vegan movement.' Simon worked as a data manager before winning the hit BBC show. Speaking about his stance on vegans, he told the Manchester Evening News that his he's unapologetic about having a lot of meat and dairy in dishes that have been carefully developed and refined over time.  'I will always work hard to accommodate dietary requirements, modifying dishes, especially for people with allergies,' he said. 'However veganism is a choice, and it doesn’t fit with my style of cooking at all. 'I don’t want to compromise the level of food I send out and I would have to to cook vegan food, so I don’t. Vegans are just better off going to a restaurant where the chef’s style is more suited to their diet.  He added at his two other restaurants - in Cheltenham and Chester - there are vegan options available, but he didn't offer them in Manchester as there were already a lot of vegan restaurants.  
