{ By Sean Poulter for the Daily Mail   Published:  00:01, 1 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7520993/Amazon-exposing-THOUSANDS-children-hackers-claims.html }
Chinese made home security cameras, which are often marketed as baby monitors, are being promoted on Amazon despite chilling evidence they are being hijacked by hackers. The failures, including weak passwords, mean that criminals can control the wireless cameras to spy on families and children in their own homes, according to an investigation by consumer experts. Researchers at Which? found serious security issues with the cameras, which appear to have thousands of positive customer reviews on the tech giant's website with the result that some carry a coveted Amazon's Choice' recommendation. Scroll down for video   The consumer champion tested four cameras - the ieGeek 1080p, which is £32.99, the Sricam 720p, at £26.24, the Victure 1080p, at £29.99, and the Vstarcam C7837WIP, at £39.99 - which present themselves as providing safety to families and babies. The ieGeek 1080p and Sricam 720p cameras share an app and inbuilt security flaw.  In both cases, WiFi passwords were sent unencrypted over the internet when someone claiming to be the user requested them. As a result, a hacker sitting in a parked car on the street outside - or, potentially, in a room thousands of miles away - could access and control the cameras.  One Amazon reviewer of the ieGeek baby monitor wrote: 'Do not buy this camera.  'There are serious security flaws with the software and the camera itself.... I thought all was fine until someone started speaking through the camera two nights in a row.  'If you do have one, be very careful about what it can see!' Another reviewer of the same camera complained: 'Strangers were viewing my family and speaking to us through the mic. Horrible Experience. 'One evening the camera moved on its own and someone spoke to us, this was extremely unsettling... Was a horrible feeling knowing people had been viewing our everyday lives.' Which? said it was 'worryingly simple' to gain root access to the Victure 1080p, which means having the ability to connect to, control and monitor a device as an administrator, so giving a hacker complete control of the camera. 1. Your devices can spy on you (and your kids)  2. Many IoT devices are vulnerable to hacking  3. Your devices are never really yours, even after you pay for them  4. Your devices know your weaknesses  5. It's almost impossible to know what you're getting yourself into, or how long it will last  6) The law may not protect you   One reviewer of a related product, the Victure Baby Monitor Pet WiFi Camera, which is listed at £19.99, wrote a review as recently as July, warning: 'Just now, I went to check on my baby physically and whilst leaning over her crib a voice emanated from the device's speaker and said 'hello' in a softly spoken female voice.  'It sent chills down my spine.' With the Vstarcam C7837WIP, the default username was set to the basic 'admin' and an easily guessable default password, a practice condemned by the government's code of practice covering products that connect to the web under the heading the 'Internet of Things'. The Internet of Things refers to products that connect to the web via a WiFi link and can be controlled remotely through a smartphone, tablet, computer or home hub device, such as an Alexa smartspeaker.  Increasingly, household appliances, products and services, including everything from home cameras to lighting, heating, washing machines and dishwashers, will connect to the web in this way, becoming part of the Internet of Things. Researchers were able to recover the username and password for the administrator account for the Vstarcam after carrying out simple online checks. A hacker armed with this information would be able to completely control the camera's settings. Some of the cameras had passwords and usernames written clearly on the side of the product and people frequently upload pictures of them to the web alongside reviews. Which? carried out further tests with a US-based expert who has exposed a critical security flaw that could affect more than 50,000 cameras in the UK and just under two million worldwide.  If exploited, it would allow a hacker to steal personal data, breach the owner's local internet network and even spy on their home. The expert was able to remotely access and take control of the Elite Security, Accfly Camhi APP Outdoor Security Camera 1080P and the Vstarcam C7837WIP.  He was also able to hack into the video feed on the Elite Security camera when it was set up in the home of a Which? employee. Which? said it found it impossible to contact the Chinese manufacturers to alert them to the serious security flaws.  At the same time, it said Amazon has not taken action to remove them from sale. It has passed details to the Department of Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), which is working on security standards for the Internet of Things. Consumer rights expert at Which?, Adam French, said: 'There appears to be little to no quality control with these sub-standard products, which risk people's security yet are being endorsed and sold on Amazon and finding their way into thousands of British homes. 'Amazon and other online marketplaces must take these cameras off sale and improve the way they scrutinise these products.  'They certainly should not be endorsing products that put people's privacy at risk. 'If they refuse to take more responsibility for protecting consumers against these security-risk products then the government should look to make them more accountable.' An Amazon spokesperson told the Daily Mail:  ‘We require all products offered in our store to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and we proactively monitor multiple sources for safety notifications, including from regulatory agencies and direct contacts from brands, manufacturers, and sellers.’  Amazon devices have previously been activated when they're not wanted - meaning the devices could be listening. Millions are reluctant to invite the devices and their powerful microphones into their homes out of concern that their conversations are being heard. Amazon devices rely on microphones listening out for a key word, which can be triggered by accident and without their owner's realisation.  The camera on the £119.99 ($129) Echo Spot, which doubles up as a 'smart alarm', will also probably be facing directly at the user's bed.  The device has such sophisticated microphones it can hear people talking from across the room - even if music is playing. A hack by British security researcher Mark Barnes saw 2015 and 2016 versions of the Echo turned into a live microphone. Fraudsters could then use this live audio feed to collect sensitive information from the device.    
