food reviews
{ By Sophie Haslett For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  02:29, 30 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7518909/Experts-reveal-EXACTLY-need-perfect-barbeque-best-supermarket-sausage.html }
With summer just around the corner and the temperature creeping slowly up, barbeque season will soon be in full swing. But how can you ensure your get-together stands out from the crowd? Ahead of the beginning of Daylight Savings this weekend, experts have revealed everything you need for the perfect barbeque - from the best supermarket sausage to the top portable speaker money can buy. What is the best supermarket sausage? Top of many people's barbeque shopping list is a tasty sausage all family and friends can enjoy. And according to taste testers from Choice, the best supermarket snag comes from Woolworths, where its $9.50 24-pack of sausages beat out tough competition from Coles and Aldi with 45 per cent of the vote. The experts loved Woolworths' sausages because they contain 73 per cent meat, low sodium and they are high in fat. 'Believe it or not, fat is something you actually do want in a good sausage,' the experts from CHOICE said. German discount retailer Aldi came in second, with 34 per cent, while Coles won just 21 per cent of the vote. What is the best bread for your sausage sandwich? But a good sausage is nothing without the bread that wraps around it, and in this category taste testers from Choice found one reigns supreme above all others. 'Wonder Wholegrain White Smooth Wholegrain topped our white bread reviews, scoring a tasty 80 per cent for nutrition and 78 per cent for taste – nutritious and delicious!,' Choice said. If you are catering for coeliacs, then there are gluten-free options from both Coles and Aldi which both taste good and are good value for money. How can you buy the best cooler? No barbeque is complete without an esky or cooler - and so Choice shared their handy tips and tricks so you don't end up with lukewarm drinks and food poisoning. 'Think about what you're going to be using your cooler for – if you're depending on it to keep food and drinks cold for several days, or in extreme temperatures, then spending more is an investment in food safety,' their experts said.  There are also several features to look out for. 'Look for walls and lids that don't compress easily when pressure is applied, as they're more likely to be filled with air,' Choice said. Similarly, check for a good seal around the lid and other openings, and smooth surfaces that won't trap dirt and food particles. Lastly, they recommend a robust and sturdy handle, a drain plug that lets you drain melted ice from your cooler without upending it and easy-to-open latches and lids. Coolers can seriously vary in price - from $55 right the way up to around $1,100. So think about how much you're going to use it before you buy. Which portable speaker should I buy? A great portable speaker will elevate your barbeque no end. Choice said the two best budget buys are the JBL Go, which costs just $30, and the Marley Chant Mini, which costs $80.  What sized barbeque should I buy and how much should I pay? Lastly, the barbeque itself is key to a successful summer feast. But which type you buy really depends on how often you barbeque. While experts at Choice said the portable option is best for small balconies and outdoor spaces, or BBQ-ing on the go, they also said a small one will work on balconies when you need to cook for between four and six people. You might want to look at buying a larger one if you barbeque often, or have a family. You can expect to pay between $200 and $800 for a portable or small option, and between $300 and $2,500 for a larger barbeque. 
