{ By Pete Carline For The Mail On Suinday   Published:  16:53, 28 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7515497/Bournemouth-2-2-West-Ham-Aaron-Cresswells-strike-secures-visitors-share-spoils.html }
After midweek misery, both Bournemouth and West Ham showed their true colours in a pulsating, end-to-end draw which had pretty much everything. There are always goals when these sides meet, and four legitimate strikes were accompanied by another ruled out by VAR. Callum Wilson continued his hot streak against West Ham, scoring his seventh goal in seven games against the Hammers. He should have settled the game too, the England striker missing a late gilt-edged chance after being put through by Harry Wilson.   BOURNEMOUTH (4-4-2): Ramsdale 6.5: Stacey 7 (L Cook 89), Cook 6, Ake 7, Rico 6.5; H Wilson 6.5 (Danjuma Groeneveld 77), Lerma 6.5, Billing 6.5 (Francis 89), King 7.5; C Wilson 7.5, Solanke 7 Subs not used: Boruc, Mepham, Surman, Ibe Goalscorers: King 17, Callum Wilson 46 Booked: Rico, Lerma, S Cook WEST HAM (4-2-3-1): Fabianski 6 (Jimenez 34, 5.5): Fredericks 6, Diop 6, Ogbonna 6.5, Cresswell 6; Rice 7, Noble 7 (Wilshere 75); Yarmolenko 8, Fornals 5.5 (Lanzini 67), Anderson 7.5; Haller 7 Subs not used: Zabaleta, Balbuena, Snodgrass, Ajeti Goalscorers: Yarmolenko 10, Cresswell 74 Booked: Diop Referee: Stuart Attwell  Attendance: 10,729    As with last week's win at Manchester United, Andriy Yarmolenko and Aaron Cresswell were on target for the visitors, who are third in the table after stretching their unbeaten run to six games.  After the final whistle, an irate West Ham manager Manuel Pellegrini was pulled away from Bournemouth counterpart Eddie Howe by Cherries assistant Jason Tindall. Howe insisted the conversation was about VAR, but in a moment of illumination Pellegrini said: 'No, I never talked about the VAR decision. I talk about the assistant coach of him, the complete game with the referee trying to pressurise in every decision.  'That's all what I complain, not about the VAR. 'It his assistant. I think they don't need it because they are a good team that play offensive football. I think Eddie has done very good work here – his assistant doesn't need to do those kind of things because I don't think it's fair for the referee.' But enough of that, back to the football. And much of it was magnificent. West Ham began brightly. When they are in full-flight and moving forward with one-touch passing, they are a joy to watch. With the likes of Declan Rice and Mark Noble fizzing in midfield and Andriy Yarmolenko, Felipe Anderson and Sebastien Haller as fleet footed outlets, there is much to admire about Pellegrini's team.  At 2-1 down, this is exactly the kind of game they would have lost last year, but they showed their mettle to get a point against a well-matched opponent. Bournemouth are equally adept at getting forward with a lively front line and a combative midfield pairing of Jefferson Lerma and Philip Billing. In a game full of incident, the first moment of note was for Diego Rico's assault on Yarmolenko.  The Spaniard went through the back of the injury-plagued winger, who screamed and lay motionless. There was concern around the ground, but he winced, got up, hobbled a little and ran the injury off. Soon he would have much to smile about. On ten minutes. Billing switched off, playing for a whistle which never came. Felipe Anderson broke down the left with good work from Cresswell and Noble, the ball found its way back to the Brazilian.  Allowed far too much time, his crisp diagonal ball bypassed Bournemouth's rearguard, finding Haller on the edge of the area.  He turned Rico, looked back and fed Yarmolenko with his back to goal. The Ukrainian appeared to be contained by Nathan Ake, but he turned, pushed the ball onto his left foot and fired past Aaron Ramsdale at the far post, his third goal in his last four games. Bournemouth are set piece specialists and were level seven minutes later after a short corner routine involving a one-two between Harry Wilson and King. The ball found its way to Rico, who crossed from the left with Ake bobbling the ball into the path of the unmarked King in the six yard box. He beat the onrushing Lucasz Fabianski with a fine reaction strike for his first goal at the Vitality since March. But had he? Up went the flag of assistant referee Constantine Hatzidakis for offside. 'VAR' came the predictable chant from the home fans. 'Sit down, shut up' the retort from the travelling ones. After a thorough delay, referee Stuart Attwell gave the goal. In the 32nd minute, West Ham's afternoon took a turn for the worse with Fabianski injuring his thigh after booting a goal kick. The Polish international was playing in his 83rd consecutive Premier League start, but hobbled off to be replaced by ropey-looking replacement Roberto. West Ham should have led before the break with chances for Fornals, Anderson and Angelo Ogbonna going begging. Bournemouth punished them 32 seconds after kick off. Solanke's mazy run panicked defenders as he darted in toward the box. He found King, who smartly released Callum Wilson, the finished with typical aplomb. Billing could have put the game to bed in the 54th minute, but Bournemouth were denied by VAR from the resulting corner after Ake slotted home. Solanke was ruled to be offside. Bournemouth would rue the miss in the 74th minute when West Ham levelled through Cresswell, who smashed home after fine build up play from Yarmolenko and Anderson. After warm introductions for substitutes Jack Wilshere - the home crowd cheered their former player - and Simon Francis, who made his first appearance since Boxing Day, the action wasn't over. Referee Attwell waved away a penalty appeal after Cresswell grabbed King's shirt in the box - VAR agreed with the official - and then came the exchange between Howe and Pellegrini. It was an unedifying conclusion to a most enjoyable afternoon. 
