{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  15:14, 27 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7419289/Amazon-customers-dubbed-eyebrow-tinting-kit-better-salon-heres-why.html }
If you're fed up of filling in your eyebrows every day, tinting is the game-changing treatment you need to try. This beauty treatment is nothing new or revolutionary, rather it uses semi-permanent dye (much like at-home hair colour) to enhance and add definition, giving the illusion of thicker, fuller brows. You can pay anything up to £25 in a salon for a brow tint, but it tends to fade within two weeks, and be completely gone by four depending on hair growth. But if you're trying to spend less, or don't have the time to visit a salon, why not try an at-home eyebrow tinting kit?  According to Amazon customers, the Eylure Dybrow Eyebrow Dye Kit is 'better than the salon'. It's also relatively inexpensive, costing just £7 per kit, with each one providing up to 12 applications. This kit is the easy way to give your brows an instant at-home refresh - and don't just take our word for it. The Amazon best-seller created by world renowned false eyelash brand Eylure, has a whopping 1,210 reviews on Amazon, with an average star rating of 4.1 out of 5. Plus, many customers have shared impressive before and after pictures. One wrote: 'Just follow the instructions and it works out just fine and is so easy. I do it about once a month. There are 12 uses in the pack, so it works out at around £1 a time which is an absolute bargain.  1. West Barn Co Soap Brows, £12 2. Glossier Boy Brow, £14 3. Benefit Goof Proof Brow Pencil, £21.50 4. Anastasia Beverly Hills Dipbrow, £19 5.  Urban Decay Brow Blade, £18 'I would never again pay someone to tint my brows, or go back to applying make up to them daily.' 'I can't rate this product high enough,' said a different happy reviewer. Another added: 'Salon quality tinted eyebrows which last weeks.' But what does at-home eyebrow tinting involve? Always read the instructions, but it's simple to use the Eylure Dybrow Eyebrow Dye Kit.  Mix the dye cream and activating solution together in the dish provided, then brush the pigment through your brows with the included spoolie.  Once the dye is applied, it takes just a few minutes to develop, before you remove it to reveal freshly darkened eyebrows. Remember to carry out a patch test at least 48 hours before dyeing your eyebrows, and if you're concerned the dye might stain your skin, you can apply a thin layer of Vaseline around your eyebrows.  And for a natural finish, apply the dye to the tail of the brow first, working your way through the arch to the front.  Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers.  MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page. 
