food reviews
{ By Alice Murphy For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:07, 27 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7492931/Nutritionist-reveals-SHOULDNT-diet-perfect-summer-body-shares-tips-beat-bloat.html }
Nutritionist Jessica Sepel has shared her top tips for beating the bloat on the beach this summer. The Sydney-based holistic food expert stressed the importance of maintaining good gut health, chewing food properly and taking supplements like milk thistle, fennel and turmeric from her line JSHealth Vitamins.  The best-selling author also said stress is a major contributory factor to poor digestion which leads to bloating and discomfort. 1. Take supplements Speaking to FEMAIL, Jessica advised upping your intake of digestive-aiding supplements during the summer months.  'Milk thistle, fennel and turmeric have all been traditionally used in Western herbal medicine to relieve digestive discomfort and reduce abdominal bloating,' she said. Jessica's latest line of JSHealth Vitamins have received rave reviews online, with a string of satisfied customers sharing incredible transformation photos after just one month of use. 2. Trial going gluten-free Ms Sepel said gluten is a widely common trigger for bloating and digestive issues. 'I recommend trialling a gluten-free diet for two to four weeks, keeping a journal to note any changes,' she said. Consult with a medical professional for a gluten sensitivity test. 3. Mind your gut health Good gut health is essential to avoiding bloating and discomfort. Ms Sepel advised increasing your intake of probiotic and prebiotic rich foods, which are mainly plant-based, and dishes with wholefood ingredients. 'Maintaining good gut health also means limiting your caffeine intake to one a day, reducing alcohol intake and avoiding artificial sweeteners found in chewing gum and soda as they can be incredibly bloating,' she said. 4. Stress less Excessive stress increases the body's production of cortisol and adrenaline which puts the nervous system into fight or flight mode. This causes the digestive system to slow down, according to Ms Sepel. 'I recommend spending 20 minutes each day to practice stress-reducing exercises including deep belly breathing, meditation, yoga walking in nature or barefoot grounding,' she said. 'Spend 10 minutes relaxing at the end of each day - this means avoiding your phone and social media.' 5. Chew well Ms Sepel said it's essential to chew your food thoroughly because digestion begins in the mouth. She recommends chewing 15-20 times for every mouthful. 'When we chew food, our saliva coats the food and sends signals to the brain to prepare for the digestive process,' she explained. 'Once food enters the stomach, hydrochloric acid and enzymes work to break it down into small particles, which travel to the small intestine and allow the nutrients to be absorbed into your bloodstream. 'Avoid rushing around while eating as this can trigger bloating.' 
