food reviews
{ By Claudia Connell for the Daily Mail   Published:  00:32, 25 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7501185/CLAUDIA-CONNELL-reviews-Capture.html }
The Capture Cakes Galore! Secrets Of The Mr Kipling Factory  Metropolitan Police Commissioner Cressida Dick said this week that she couldn’t watch shows like Line Of Duty and The Bodyguard as they are too far-fetched. For the same reason, I doubt she’s watching The Capture (BBC1) either. Admittedly, Ms Dick has a vested interest but, for the rest of us, the only way to enjoy such dramas is simply to embrace their entertainment value. Questioning the storyline will only lead to one almighty migraine. So it was that soldier Shaun Emery (Callum Turner) knew that he’d been framed for the murder of Hannah Roberts (Laura Haddock), the human rights lawyer who got him off charges of murdering an Afghan while on duty. And, last night, DI Rachel Carey (Holliday Grainger) finally realised somebody was out to destroy Shaun — while also taking her down as necessary collateral. On the run from the police, Emery was picked up by a mysterious duo who, after tampering with CCTV evidence, told him he had been the victim of ‘correction’ where powerful people take something they don’t like and change it. Just who these people were remained the burning question. Was it DSU Gemma Garland (Lia Williams), the sinister counter terrorism detective who ordered the faked tape of Shaun attacking his barrister to be redacted? Or scary American agent Frank Napier (Ron Perlman) who, last night, ordered that DI Carey be ‘dealt with’. In fact, by the end of episode four you didn’t trust a word anyone said and suspected everyone — which is just how a great thriller should be. In time-honoured police drama tradition, the episode ended with DI Carey being removed from the case and going rogue.  Shaun was taken to meet a mysterious gang of anti ‘correction’ crusaders who’d worked with Hannah. Baffling, thrilling and brilliantly clever, it’s building up to an explosive finale. While some TV shows like The Capture require us to focus and engage our brains, others like Cakes Galore! Secrets Of The Mr Kipling Factory (Ch5) are less demanding. Examining the finer workings of large organisations has become something of an obsession for Channel 5 of late. Last night, it was Mr Kipling’s turn to come under the microscope. And those who love statistics were spoilt for choice. We learned that the plant in Carlton, South Yorkshire, is the size of 26 football pitches.  The factory churns out five million cakes a day including 1.5 million Angel Cakes — their best-seller. It’s all thanks to the 50 lorries a day that supplied the flour, sugar and fats.  Facts galore! Despite its charming ‘days of old’ image, the Mr Kipling brand is only 52 years old. It launched in 1967 in response to rising consumerism and a realisation that while people loved cake, they didn’t necessarily want to buy and eat a whole one. Not every piece of Kipling lore was so tasty. The Mr Kipling character, famously voiced by James Hayter in TV commercials, was said to have been based on Seamus Kipling, a real-life baker from the Twenties. But food historian Dr Polly Russell debunked the story in favour of the less romantic truth: that he was simply cooked up in an advertising agency boardroom. Today the 850 employers are helped by robots, including a sonic cutter that uses vibration to cleanly slice through cakes. The bubbly staff seemed to love their jobs and the cakes looked delicious. Shame then that watching them being made was so exceedingly boring. 
