{ By Sophie Haslett For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  02:21, 24 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7496811/The-30-Australian-BB-cream-1-000-five-star-reviews.html }
A $30 Australian-made BB cream boasts over 1,000 five-star reviews online, with countless beauty experts describing it as their 'holy grail product'. Bali Body's BB Cream SPF15 is beloved across the country for its ability to not only give you natural coverage and a dewy glow, but also combine hydrating skincare all in the same small bottle. Reviews on the Bali Body website have described the multi-tasking product as 'the best BB cream ever' and the 'only BB cream to provide lasting coverage'. 'This product is amazing, lovely dewy look, not caked and heavy. Very natural. Would not want to be without this ever,' one reviewer posted. So what makes the product so effective at giving a natural glow? Ingredients including hyaluronic acid, marine collagen and green tea extract combine to prevent water loss and boost skin elasticity. The marine collagen from seaweed helps to firm, plump and renew the skin, all while stimulating natural collagen synthesis. The cream has anti-ageing properties as well, which work to renew the skin.  Before and after pictures shared online show just how effective the makeup product is at covering blemishes and dark circles, while hydrating the skin at the same time. Many who have bought the product have described the BB cream as the perfect makeup for when the weather heats up. If you are someone who hates the full coverage of foundation, this will get rid of all of your worst blemishes, while highlighting your best features. There are four shades for shoppers: fair, natural, tan and dark. The cream also boasts SPF 15, meaning it will give you some light protection from the sun as you go about your day-to-day business. Bali Body has rapidly shot to success in recent years, thanks to a strong Instagram presence where women from all over the world share their before and after images. The 100 per cent vegan-friendly skincare company, has been a global sensation since being launched by husband and wife duo David and Laura in 2014. The brand has an online following of 1.3 million Instagram followers and thousands of 5 star reviews and the range is shipped to over 150 countries worldwide. Famously, the brand sells a face water every 30 seconds, while it also shifts a fake tan product every 45 seconds.   
