{ By Stacy Liberatore and James Pero For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:43, 24 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7500283/Facebook-dating-falls-flat-users-share-negative-experiences-Twitter.html }
It was designed to give users a fairytale ending, but Facebook's Dating app seems to have turned into a tragedy. It has only been a few weeks since the launch of the matchmaking feature and users are already flocking to Twitter to share their not so positive experiences. Many have expressed their disappointment, calling it 'trash', 'ratchet' and only '5% less annoying than Tinder'.   Scroll down for video  Facebook rolled out its dating app earlier this month and unlike other sites, this one does not require users to mutually 'match' before being able to connect, and instead will let participants browse profiles via a familiar card-style cue and interact with the ones that interest them. It works with the platform’s user data , including what you like, what events you go to, and what groups you're a part of, to connect you to both Facebook and Instagram users who have opted in. But it seems the app is not a fan favorite among the public, as many have flocked to Twitter share their frustrations – although some users have given it positive feedback. ‘Man you thought tinder was full of ratchets wait til you see Facebook Dating,’ write @danlacewell. Another Twitter users said ‘So the Facebook dating app is like Tinder, but 5% less annoying”. And other shared pictures of those who ‘liked’ them, specifically David who appears to be holding his shirt up to show off a gun tattoo on his stomach. Facebook had initial aimed to cater to a group of people who have soured on other, less personal, dating apps and are looking for a more curated experience. It gives users the ability to interact with profiles in two ways: by liking a profile to let someone know that they're interested or by commentating directly on a picture. If users aren't particularly taken by the profile suggestion, they can pass by clicking an 'X' button and moving on through the cue. To avoid the inevitable awkward situation of suggesting two platonic friends, or worse, Facebook said users will be able to select the type of people recommended to them, including 'friends of friends and/or people not in your friend circle.' That doesn't mean one's Facebook friends are off limits, however. A feature called 'secret crush' allows dating hopefuls to add up to nine Facebook friends or Instagram followers to a list. If both of the users add each other to the list, it will allow notify each.   
