{ By Nic White For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  17:17, 22 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7475611/Australian-airports-slammed-world.html }
Australia's international airports have been slammed as second rate by airline chiefs, with price gouging and under-staffing creating a bad first impression for visitors. Hundreds of complaints from infuriated passengers lament airports' long queues and delays, choking traffic, and pricey parking. Qantas' Alan Joyce and Virgin's Paul Scurrah took a swipe at how Australian airports generate huge profits while producing a passenger experience far below that of overseas terminals. 'Australia is home to four of the five most profitable airports in the world. Funnily enough, none of these airports rate in the best airports in the world,' Mr Joyce said. Sydney Airport, which handles 16 million international travellers per year, was the focus of many customer complaints, but said it would not comment or respond to the criticism.  The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission has also taken Sydney Airport to task for numerous issues and only rated it 'satisfactory' in 2018. Regulators point to the airport's monopoly over Sydney and insufficient controls to stop it using this to its advantage. Sydney Airport made a $382.6 million profit in 2018, which rose by more than 15 per cent over the past decade, plus millions more from parking. 'It is not surprising that the airports are so profitable, given that they face little competitive pressure and no price regulation,' ACCC chairman Rod Sims said last year. Despite the massive profits, numerous passengers likened its facilities and organisation to 'third world airports' they dreaded suffering through. Traffic mayhem Getting to the airport is hard enough - you either pay the extortionate almost $20 fare for the train or battle it out on the roads. Notorious Sydney traffic is one thing, but it gets even worse when you arrive at the gate and movement grinds to a halt. It is so bad a worker with a stop sign is sometimes seen directing traffic, holding up lanes for so long it can take an hour to move 2km. 'This is due to pressure of traffic and an appalling road layout that forces T2 and T3 traffic to merge for about 100m before splitting,' one passenger observed. Another wrote: 'The traffic around the airport was a gridlock. Over an hour we covered around 2km. No one is at the loading bays controlling traffic.' Most expensive parking in Australia Once you eventually find a spot, you have to pony up a king's ransom for parking - either for a few hours or hundreds for long term. Horror stories include passengers being charged more than $1,000 because the complicated fee regime wasn't well explained online. 'I was charged $558 for seven days parking in the P7 car park. I checked online before I left and it said $275 thinking it was that, then get hit with $558 saying $275 was an online price,' one wrote. 'How can they justify these charges? It is a disgrace with nothing saying this is what it would cost. Sydney Airport is a national disgrace.' Rival chief executives Alan Joyce from Qantas and Paul Scurrah from Virgin Australia put on a united front to issue a withering attack on airports. They argue airports like Sydney are 'unregulated revenue stream in a monopoly environment' and thus charge whatever they like. Mr Joyce said in a speech to the National Press Club on Wednesday that airports had profit margins of more than 50 per cent - six times Qantas'. 'If Qantas had the same sort of profit margin, we'd be making a $9 billion profit. Imagine the outcry,' he said.  He used the astronomical price of everything from parking to food as evidence of airports using their monopolies to their advantage. 'It probably won't come as a surprise to many, but airports are really, really, expensive places. It costs more to buy a coffee,' he said. 'It costs more to rent a car. It costs more to get a taxi. And, as you can imagine, it costs a lot more than it should to land an aircraft. 'Australia is home to four of the five most profitable airports in the world. Funnily enough, they don't rank nearly that highly when travellers rank the world's best airports.' The two airline bosses argued that the huge fees airports charge carriers, which rose by 25 per cent in a decade, led to higher fares for passengers. Sydney Airport raked in $18.30 in revenue per passenger in 2017, much of it from fees levied on airlines. Mr Joyce said Canberra Airport demanded $25 per passenger, which meant Jetstar couldn't afford to fly there. 'Airport charges are the fourth highest expenses for airlines, after fuel, aircraft and wages,' he said. 'As a percentage of revenue, Australian airlines are being slugged more than double what airlines in the U.S. pay and 50 per cent more than in Europe. 'Australian airports are literally the only game in town. Their business model is based on it.  'We can't just up-stumps and fly to the next airport 15 minutes down the road. They have airlines and passengers over a barrel.' Mr Scarrah agreed: 'I argue Australia's aviation system simply cannot afford golden runways that support profit margins north of 45 per cent.' Mr Joyce also vented about the time Canberra Airport 'ransomed' a Qantas plane diverted there until $18,000 was paid over the phone by credit card. '[It was] the closest thing to piracy that I've ever come to,' he said. The airline bosses have the support of the ACCC, which wants more regulation on the monopolistic airports. 'It is not surprising that the airports are so profitable, given that they face little competitive pressure and no price regulation,' chairman Rod Sims said. 'Unconstrained monopolies often have an incentive and ability to charge excessive prices while lacking strong incentives to improve services. 'They are free to set their prices, and of course, they are monopolies.'  The first 15 minutes parking in short term is free, but in the very likely event the traffic keeps you there longer, you're punished with a minimum $9.70 fee.  Stay more than three hours and you'll be slugged $61, then another $61 for every day the car stays in its bay.  Long term parking is $75 a day with a measly online booking discount of $7.  Sydney Airport rakes in cash from its parking, which is the most expensive at any airport in Australia, making a $95.4 million profit last year. The enormous 70 per cent profit margin has only gotten better over the past decade, where it earned $886.3 million profit on $12.4 billion income. That equates to $261,000 in profit each day last year or $181 a minute. 'The car parking fees at Sydney Airport are completely excessive,' ACCC chairman Rod Sims said last year.  'They are... by far the highest in comparison to any other Australian airport.' Earlier this week Mr Sims pointed out that the airport can effectively charge what it likes as it holds a monopoly - though cheaper car parks ran free shuttle buses to terminals.  'Sydney Airport likely holds market power with respect to airport parking, since it is the only provider of such services on airport land,' he said.   Good luck leaving by taxi too, as passengers report not only the choking traffic but nowhere near enough taxi bays to meet demand. 'The last things one wants after a long day is to have to wait for 30 minutes or more at the highly inefficient 10-bay taxi rank,' one wrote. 'Aside from the limited number of bays, taxis come through at a snail's pace. This is not of their own doing, drivers have been waiting for up to two hours for a fare.' Passengers suggested this was done to encourage people to drive so they would be more likely to incur parking fees. Those needing a wheelchair were even less happy, claiming the disabled bays at at least one terminal had no ramps. Queues out the door Lines are part of the airport experience, but Sydney's queues are known to be longer than other airports, which passengers blame on inefficient design. Waits of more than half an hour are common with security and especially immigration known to take even longer. Even cabin staff were frustrated with the delays they experienced trying to get on board and were embarrassed for passengers. 'The processing lines are long, disorganised. I'm left answering questions from bewildered travellers due to limited or helpful staff,' one wrote online. 'Try giving feedback. It's virtually impossible. I'm embarrassed about the inefficiency. Corporate greed, cost cutting, lack of foresight has resulted in a shopping centre with Disneyland lines in an overpriced shopping mall.' Other passengers blamed the airport's gridlock on it not expanding to account for the ever-growing demand - all while sprucing up duty free. 'The security lines were a mess. Inadequate, poorly designed and lagging with passenger growth,' one wrote. 'How does an airport have so much money to splurge on NEW duty free stores - but during peak hours, has thousands of passengers waiting up to two hours in customs queues,' an aviation insider wrote. 'After 10 years in the aviation industry, I can confirm Sydney airport is consistently the most inefficient airport in the world. 'Whether its the four-lane pile up entry into the airport, the bottle neck security queues, or the lack of signage to direct passengers to gates 40+.' Airlines give some passengers express passes that are supposed to let them skip giant queues with a faster lane. Except in Sydney they are often useless. 'Chaotic, busy, understaffed. The immigration queue was a disaster. I had a express card which was useless as I was told by the staff 'throw it away'. This airport is suffering from mismanagement,' an angry pass-holder wrote. Confusing signage was another complaint that added to the stress of trying to find gates and muddle through a maze-like terminal. 'Arriving from an international flight to transfer to a domestic flight is like searching blindly through a labyrinth of chaos,' one passenger wrote. 'How is it possible to put so little effort into signage and markings to a rather obscure area?' Once passengers make it through those lines, some domestic flights require them to board a bus and be driven across the tarmac to the plane. This means yet more queuing and frequent delays, and sometimes the overcrowded buses even break down. 'Long queues in a grimy 'lounge', and a standing-room only, stop-start bus ride across a congested tarmac. Neither with aircon, on a very muggy morning,' a passenger recalled. These systems are crowded at the best of times, but are thrown into chaos at even the slightest hiccup - which seem to happen frequently. Barely a few weeks go by without a mass cancellation due to a little rain or wind, a power outage, or passport scanner crash in April that brought immigration lines to a standstill. In January, fog caused such bad delays that massive check-in queues snaked out the door to the taxi rank. Delays are inevitable when things go wrong, but Sydney Airport has been sharply criticised for not being able to deal with them well, or clear the backlog efficiently. The ACCC suggested scrapping the 11pm-6am curfew would help the airport recover from delays and cancellations faster. Sydney is also the only airport in Australia to have a cap on its runway movements, set at 80 an hour, and abolishing this would also lead to improvements. Baggage claim chaos Then there is waiting for checked baggage to arrive on the conveyor with passengers claim is far longer than other airports. Actor Sam Neil voiced his displeasure in June when he had to wait 90 minutes for his bag to arrive when the conveyor belt got jammed. 'Disgraceful luggage chaos this morning at Sydney Airport. One and a half hours wait for baggage. Not even a busy morning,' he wrote on Twitter. Another passenger claimed their baggage was damaged and they couldn't open it after getting off another flight. 'Not impressed just got off a 14hr flight to find my luggage damaged one bag destroyed and the locks changed on my bags now explain to me how I'm meant to get to my clothes etc?' they wrote in a Facebook review. Worse still, baggage handlers were in March filmed carelessly throwing suitcases on to a conveyor belt, sparking uproar. Exorbitant food prices Sydney's inflated food prices were highlighted earlier this year when passengers spotted the price for Australia's national biscuit, the Tim Tam. A 663g packet of Tim Tam bites was on sale at Sydney Airport for $26, compared to online for $14.89. The 170g bags of 'bites' are sold across Australian supermarkets for $4.40 each. Passengers compared the $26 bag to the regular 200g packet, which contains 11 biscuits and retails at Woolworths and Coles for $2.50. It's not just chocolates but any food you can think of that is grossly inflated just because it is inside the airport. 'I paid $7.95 for an ice long black. Literally a shot of espresso over a chunk of ice and they charge $7.95,' one passenger complained. 'That is an absolute rip off. I am so disappointed that this is happening. Poor form Sydney Airport.' Grumpy and unreasonable staff More than half of reviews of Sydney Airport inevitably mention 'rude' or extremely unhelpful staff who didn't seem to care about their customers. Complaints ranged from overzealous security and immigration workers to lack of assistance with basic issues, and an unpleasant demeanour. 'Sydney continues to be the most unfriendly and disorganised. On every occasion I've witnessed staff raising their voice and being very rude to international arrivals, over basic questions or misunderstandings,' one passenger wrote. Another wrote: 'Worst Airport in the world to transit through, oppressive unorganised customs staff who are rude and obnoxious with no customer service skills at all, if at all possible use another airport to transit through Australia.' 'Overzealous, rude and arrogant security officers were not happy until they had my wife in tears,' a third wrote. Dirty, run down, and stuck in the 1990s Passengers claimed facilities like toilets were dirty, and much of the airport run down, outdated, and in need of a renovation. 'Toilets dirty. Unreasonable delays in getting baggage. Someone had vomited on the carpet near the immigration counter. We queued for over 30 minutes, but the carpet wasn't cleaned in that time. Pathetic,' one business traveller complained. 'It feels like a Third World airport. Used their toilets, each one has some dysfunctional facilities, either sink blocked, tap not working, urinals had a tap across saying it is out of order. Terminal WiFi is a hoax. No connectivity.' Another passenger summed up many of Sydney Airport's problems in one review fearing for what overseas visitors would think.  'Everything at SYD is stuck in the mid 90s, except for the prices, which are astronomical for just about everything,' they wrote. 'The arrivals area (immigration, baggage claim, customs) is particularly depressing, dreary and inefficient, the staff are grumpy and more often than not, toilets are dirty, and the two exits confusing.  'What a terrible first impression for first-time visitors to Australia!' Sydney Airport declined to comment on customer complaints, but last year repeatedly highlighted its spending on improving services. 'In order to remain globally competitive, we invest about $1 million every day to ensure we're catering for growth and to improve the experience for our customers,' it said.  'Since 2002, we've invested $4.3 billion in improving capacity, services and facilities at Sydney Airport.  'This enables us to handle the increasing number of passengers, add value to the economy, and generate and facilitate jobs across Sydney, NSW and Australia.'   
