food reviews
{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  19:00, 18 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7478273/Pub-landlord-claims-derelict-bar-kept-receiving-TripAdvisor-reviews-five-years-shut.html }
A property developer says a pub he bought kept getting TripAdvisor reviews for three years despite being completely abandoned - as the website reveals it blocked a million fake posts last year. Charles Goodall bought the Bridge Inn pub in Middleton-in-Teesdale, Durham, in 2015 with a view to transforming the derelict business, which had not been open since 2011, into some houses.  Between 2014 and 2016, reviews for the abandoned pub popped up on TripAdvisor - some from people claiming to have suffered through poor service while eating Sunday roasts at the venue.   'I did contact TripAdvisor on their website and advised them that the reviews were impossible as the pub wasn't trading and they were slow to respond,' Mr Goodall told the BBC.  His comments come as TripAdvisor releases its first ever Transparency Report, where the review site reveals it blocked one million fake reviews from being posted.  Strangely, reviews of the disused pub varied, with one claiming it offered the 'best Sunday dinner ever' to another who said their partner had to 'chew his way through sinew and gristle' while eating low-quality meat. Several posts are still available on the website, but it now states that the pub has closed.  'We were looking for old photos of the pub on Google and the reviews came up. We found it quite funny,' Mr Goodall said. He said the experience had made him 'a bit sceptical' about using TripAdvisor.  The company's Transparency Report revealed that from January 1 to December 31 2018, 155million 'content submissions' were made by users, 66million of which were reviews.  The average rating submitted for businesses and locations listed on the website was an impressive 4.22 out of 5.  The company said 100 per cent of reviews submitted to the website pass through 'an advanced moderation process, which uses state-of-the-art analysis technology to identify potential problem comments.' In 2018, 2.7million reviews were 'further screened by a highly trained content moderation team', and 4.7 per cent of all review submissions were rejected or removed by either 'advanced analysis technology' or manually by moderators.  Reasons for removals vary from 'guideline violations', such as using profanity, to 'instances of review fraud'.   The 4.7 per cent of rejected submissions could be divided further into 3.4 per cent that were rejected before they were posted and 1.3 per cent that were removed after being posted.  'Looking specifically at fake reviews, only a very small fraction of all review submissions – 2.1% – were determined to be fraudulent, and the vast majority of those (73%) were blocked before they ever got posted,' the report revealed.  Fewer than than 0.6 per cent of all reviews submitted, a total of 374,220, made it onto TripAdvisor before being removed for fraud, the website claimed.  Stephen Kaufer, TripAdvisor President and CEO, said in the report: 'No one has a greater incentive than TripAdvisor to ensure the reliability of the content on our platform.  'It is the core of our business because if people don’t find our content reliable and helpful, they won’t keep coming back to our site.  'However, too often we have seen third parties share inaccurate figures about the authenticity of review content and the scale of fraud on our platform.  'These third parties do not have access to the key technical data necessary to determine whether or not a review is fraudulent.  'We do – and with this report, for the first time ever, we want to provide definitive insights into the details and data behind our extensive content moderation efforts.  'We do this in the spirit of transparency. We know we’re not perfect. But we’re constantly working to stay one step ahead of the people who try to abuse our platform – and we believe that no other review platform does more to protect the integrity of their content than TripAdvisor.'   The website claims they penalise companies and individuals who try to 'cheat the system', with penalties increasing in severity for repeat offenders.  TripAdvisor's transparency review says the company plans to 'stay one step ahead' of manipulators by improving systems that identify and penalise fraudsters; investing in training for moderation teams; partnering with law enforcement to share information to help tackle fake reviews and share more insight about the moderation process.    
