food reviews
{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:54, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/bills/article-7965331/My-Farm-Fresh-Box-charged-50-leaving-negative-review.html }
A frustrated customer has revealed that she was charged £50 after writing a supposedly negative review about a food subscription service she had ordered a free trial from. Ms E, who does not wish to be named, initially signed up to a free trial from My Farm Fresh Box, which delivers fruit and vegetables to subscribers homes, to see what the service was like. But when she posted on Trustpilot about the £20 cancellation fee that she hadn't spotted, she was then hit with another surprise she hadn't spotted when she signed up - a £50 fee for bad feedback. The customer said that she cancelled her My Farm Fresh Box service stating she couldn't justify paying for further boxes after seeing the amount of food she received. Ms E said: 'I think it is a very valid reason to cancel as the whole reason I signed up was to trial and see if it suited us.' Upon cancelling after the free subscription, she was charged a £20 fee. After looking at the website again, she realised that this was stated in the terms and conditions that £20 would be taken as 'an administration fee to have your web account closed and your personal details removed from our servers.' To make other potential customers aware, Ms E posted a review on Trustpilot regarding the cancellation fee. The next day, she found that £50 had been taken out of her account by My Farm Fresh Box - based in Maidenhead, Berkshire - without permission. Ms E contacted Kelly Wheeler - the owner of the firm which used to trade under the name Kelly's Vegies.  He said she would get her £50 back after she had deleted the 'negative' review from TrustPilot. Ms E said: 'Emails continued to go back and forth and I informed her this is blackmailing and I would be happy to amend my review but not to delete it.  'He said he no longer has time for me and told me to just delete the review. I informed him I would be taking this to court.' Under the terms and conditions on My Farm Fresh Box's website, it claims it will charge customers who leave negative reviews £50. It says: 'We welcome all reviews, whether positive or negative. This helps us improve our service. 'Nevertheless, reviews that contain defamatory language, inaccurate or fake statements or are posted by online trolls who have not made any purchases, a £50 fine will become chargeable and enforcable through the courts system if necessary.' When contacted directly by This is Money, My Farm Fresh Box said: 'The fine is in place to cover legal costs should we decide to go down this route to have the fake review removed.' This suggests that the company is willing to commit to legal action should they believe that a 'fake' review has been posted.   However, Ms E said this clause wasn't in the terms and conditions when she initially signed up as she had saved them at the time she was charged a cancellation fee. She also pointed out that My Farm Fresh Box should no longer have her bank details as she had been charged a cancellation fee which was apparently in place to account for the time taken to delete all of her personal details. When speaking to her bank to block any further payments, Ms E was advised to delete the review to get her money back and to report it to Trading Standards which she is now in the process of doing. She said: 'It is a bit worrying that they deliver to people's houses because they do have our address which makes me worried to complain. But they shouldn't be allowed to get away with it.' This is Money contacted My Farm Fresh Box for comment but it said it would not be providing a response.  The Mail on Sunday has previously reported customers were also charged £50 each for negative reviews left about Kelly's Vegies, the name that My Farm Fresh Box used to trade under. One customer even received a £385 court claim with Kelly's Vegies demanding £50 in compensation for every day her 'derogatory' review remained online.  Complaints to the Advertising Standards Agency about Kelly's Vegies were also upheld after it was found to advertise the trial box as 'free' without explaining that the person would automatically then be subscribed to the service. The firm removed the line in their terms and conditions about the £50 review before reinstating it once they rebranded themselves as My Farm Fresh Box, which is still run by Kelly Wheeler. Danielle Lewis-James, a senior associate at Slater and Gordon who specialises in consumer rights, said: 'The information provided here suggests that this is a case of misrepresentation by the seller, which would be a breach of the law and your consumer rights.  'If people sign up to this trial on the basis that it's free, it would seem that the company has misrepresented its offer as the customer has to pay £20 to cancel that free trial.  'In addition, irrespective of representations made in the terms and conditions, the customer should also be entitled to a 'cooling-off period' of at least 14 days which is the statutory minimum as per the Consumer Contracts Regulations. 'The reason the company gives for charging a cancellation fee – to delete all personal data from its systems – simply isn't valid.  'The General Data Protection Regulations allow anyone to request the free removal of their personal data if it is no longer needed, as appears to be the case here.' Ms Lewis-James adds: 'Charging people for leaving a negative review could constitute an unfair contract term.  'While companies can and do take legal action over negative reviews, that is very different to what is happening here – if the review given is honest and not inaccurate or malicious then there should be no cause for concern.  'Businesses may try their luck reporting negative reviews in a bid to get them taken down, but that doesn't mean they will be successful. 'In the first instance, I would advise this customer to put in writing a formal complaint to the company and request that the money is immediately reimbursed.  'It's also worth notifying the bank, although if included in the terms and conditions it is likely they may not recognise these as unauthorised deductions. 'If the customer is still not satisfied, they could inform the Advertising Standards Authority, the Consumer Ombudsman and the local authority's trading standards.  'This all takes time of course, which can be frustrating, but the more people who complain, the more likely it is that matters will be investigated and action taken. 'As a last resort the customer could also issue a claim in the county court, but this incurs its own cost and at this stage they should carefully consider whether it is worth their while or will in fact end up costing them more than their original losses'.  A spokesperson for the Chartered Trading Standards Institute said: 'It is vital that consumers read terms and conditions before agreeing to a contract.  'This may feel rather boring but the My Farm Fresh Box contract has terms and conditions that the business has felt were important to write and they must, therefore, be important for customers to be aware of. 'With regard to charging a cancellation fee, businesses are allowed to do this but any charge must be a fair reflection of the actual cost to the business, it cannot be a way of penalising a customer for leaving. 'Fake or unjustified reviews can be damaging for a business but this term would also be subject a test of fairness and the business would have to justify that making this charge was fair in the light of the actual review and potential cost to them. 'A term that is unfair is not binding on a consumer who could argue that the business did not have the right to take their money for this.'  When looking at the Trustpilot reviews for My Farm Fresh Box, there is a sign at the top of the page that warns customers the company has 'been reporting reviews in a biased way, for example by systematically reporting all or most negative reviews.' This is evident when looking at the page as many of the reviews have been blurred from view after the firm has reported them to Trustpilot for being defamatory, using 'accusatory language' and making 'slanderous and false' comments. A spokesperson for Trustpilot said: 'We strongly condemn My Farm Fresh Box's behaviour and in no way endorse the way this business is using its terms and conditions.  'However, to clarify, Trustpilot is not a government, statutory, licensing or regulatory body and as such can not request that this company change its Terms and Conditions of service on its own website. 'As you've already noted, the business has an existing Consumer Alert on its Trustpilot profile relating to other infringements to our guidelines.  'Consumer Alerts provide clear warnings to consumers that the information on the profile could be misleading. We have now updated the page to warn consumers about the company's Terms and Conditions. 'As part of our commitment to being an open platform, we let consumers decide which companies are reviewed on Trustpilot and therefore we don't delete company profiles or the reviews associated with them. 'Removing company profiles would mean denying consumers the opportunity to share their experiences and thereby also the opportunity to be warned about a company's behaviour, as the consumer alert would no longer be visible. 'In rare cases such as this one, we can block a company's access to the features they're misusing, and have previously done this on two occasions for My Farm Fresh Box.  'Our Investigations Team will also continue to monitor the company's reporting behaviour going forward.  'Our reporting function is in place to provide a fair playing field across our platform for both consumers and businesses, and removing the functionality indefinitely for some users and not others would prevent them from having the opportunity to challenge reviews that may contravene our guidelines.'  Other customers have also taken to My Farm Fresh Box's and their own social media pages to complain about the service they have received from the company.   Customers who are concerned about practices of a company are advised to contact Trading Standards or the Citizens Advice Consumer Service on 0808 223 1133.     
