food reviews
{ By Matilda Rudd For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:55, 18 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7475991/Woman-blasts-fiance-installing-chocolate-safe-fridge-stop-snacking.html }
A disgruntled mother has slammed her fiancé on Facebook after he installed a 'chocolate safe' in the fridge so she couldn't eat any of the snacks. Stacey Lowe, who is based in the UK, was taken aback by her partner Dave William's attempt to curb her love of desserts and furiously criticised his approach online last Friday. 'So this is what it has come to. You buy a house together, have a child together, get engaged, are planning a wedding and doing your house up and this happens,' she started. 'Dave goes and buys a f***ing fridge safe because he's an a***hole and doesn't want to share his chocolate with me anymore! Anyone want him? Surely this is breakup material right?' Her fierce post was met by ridicule from over 47,000 people on social media, who commented on how wonderful the idea was. 'What a brilliant way to stop me from gorging on chocolate late at night,' one person commented. 'I would do this if we lived together,' another person added, tagging their boyfriend. But others said it was a nasty idea and it certainly warranted a conversation.  'I'd burn the house down,' one person wrote, while another added they would 'smash that sh*t wide open' using a bat. 'Why would anyone do this to their spouse,' another commented. Plenty of people were surprised such a gadget existed and asked Stacey for information about it. 'For everyone asking Dave bought this fridge safe from Lockabox,' she replied, providing a link to the product. The clear container, which costs $54AUD, and has plenty of five-star reviews on Amazon with people praising its ability to house medicines, bathroom-related paraphernalia and food. But sadly it can't be shipped to Australia just yet.  'I ordered this Lockabox to keep sensitive documents and items away from prying eyes and fingers! The box itself seem nice and sturdy for the price you pay and the lock mechanism is simple and robust,' one person said. Another added: 'My 11-year-old son has autism and struggles with giving up his iPad and other electronics. The Lockabox has worked wonders in our home, and we are now able to limit his time on electronics by locking them away instead of hiding them around the house'. Stacey, who still hasn't managed to pry the boy of chocolates open, said she wants to buy one for herself because 'two can play that game'.    
