{ By Ryan Smith for MailOnline   Published:  21:53, 17 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7474659/Love-Islands-Molly-Mae-Hague-lashes-YouTube-stars-harsh-reviews-clothing-line.html }
Molly-Mae Hague has lashed out at her fellow YouTube stars for giving her new clothing line with PrettyLittleThing reviews that she has deemed 'not nice'. The 20-year-old influencer, who landed her lucrative deal shortly after placing second with boyfriend Tommy Fury on Love Island, even went as far as to suggest she has now lost respect for the reviewers concerned. Speaking with The Mirror, she said of the harsh reviews: 'It's hard, I find it hard to watch them, I'm not going to lie because YouTubers go in, it's not nice. 'I'm a YouTuber myself and I've learned now that sometimes you have to think you are reviewing someone's collection, yes, but you're also talking about a person. People have gone in on their channels and YouTubers I used to really respect.' Suggesting that some of reactions might be clickbait, she added: 'Everyone's got an opinion. Nothing gets better views than when you put like, "oh my god this is awful", it'll get views so some people just do it for the views and that's fine, let them.'  Since leaving the Love Island villa this summer, Molly-Mae has quickly lined her pockets both with her fashion deal and a newly-announced partnership with hair product brand Beauty Works. And before entering the show, which helped propel her Instagram follower count well beyond 3 million, Molly-Mae made a name for herself reviewing beauty and fashion products herself. Molly-Mae's deal with Beauty Works brought her to London on Tuesday for a busy say of promotional duties.  The reality star, who recently revealed that she's moved in with her beau Tommy, cut a chic figure as she emerged in a flattering all-black ensemble. Donning a blouse with flowing trousers and a smart blazer, Molly-Mae toted a leather Christian Dior bag, while she stood tall in a pair of clear open-toed heels. She wore her platinum blonde locks in long wavy extensions, hours after she publicly revealed that she had become the new ambassador for Beauty Works. Speaking to MailOnline about her new deal, Molly-Mae - who is also a brand ambassador for PrettyLittleThing - said: 'I already had a strong relationship with Beauty Works. I have used their products for ages. 'So I'm releasing an exclusive curl kit. It's because everyone went mad for my curls on Love Island. And now I've come out, I can't believe I get to collaborate with them. 'It's something I could only ever have dreamed of and working with them now means I can do so much more. My hair has been a huge thing, the colour, the bouncy look I wore in the villa. 'So many people ask me about it. So this curl kit is a way of helping my followers achieve this look.' Things are also going well for Molly-Mae in her private life, thanks to her romance with Tommy Fury, 20, with whom she placed second on this year's Love Island. She gushed to MailOnline of their relationship: 'It's literally brilliant and perfect. It is just perfect! We never bicker, we have moved in together in Manchester.' Shooting down the notion that their increasingly busy schedules could negatively affect their relationship, she insisted: 'Whether we have a busy month, or week, or year - we commit to our relationship. We FaceTime 24/7.' On Saturday, Molly-Mae was seen with her boyfriend in Las Vegas, as they cheered on his older brother Tyson during his victorious boxing bout with Otto Wallin. They appeared to be in upbeat spirits as they were spotted returning to their home in Manchester on Monday.      
