food reviews
{ By Terri-ann Williams For Mailonline   Published:  12:51, 17 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7472513/UKs-10-fish-chip-shops-compete-coveted-national-prize.html }
As summer draws to a close in the UK, tucking into fish and chips at the seaside might seem like a distant memory for many.  But those still looking to treat themselves to the classic British dish still have plenty of choice when it comes to the best chip shop.  The notorious dish is a staple meal in homes across the whole of the UK, whether you go for traditional cod and chunky chips or if you'd rather go for a battered sausage, the humble chippy has a place in the hearts of many. Getting fish and chips right is crucial, the consistency of the batter and the fluffiness of the chips is something many take extremely seriously, now making that tough decision on which chippy to visit has been made that much easier, as the top 10 fish and chips establishments across the UK have now been revealed. The data was compiled by The National Fish and Chip Awards 2019 and the twenty featured are semi-finalists in the running for the Fish and Chip Shop of the Year Award, the flagship category in the 2020 National Fish & Chip Awards.  The awards are organised by Seafish, the public body that supports the £10 billion UK seafood industry, The National Fish & Chip Awards are the UK's premier awards for fish and chips businesses.  The winner of the award will be crowned in January, but until then, feast your eyes on the top takeaways across the UK.  Carron Fish Bar, Stonehaven, Grampian  In Scotland, Grampian seems to be the place to go for the best fish and chips.  Carron Fish Bar in Stonehaven is one of the best, boasting brilliant customers reviews and if you want to have a cheeky dessert, you can even try a deep fried Mars bar. In fact, the shop's claim to fame is that it invented the famous snack in the mid 1990s - and was even ordered to remove a banner advertising that fact in 2015 when Aberdeenshire Council said it had to come down 'for the good of the community'. Speaking to the MailOnline today the team said: 'Today we won the Award for Top Chip Shop in Scotland, and now we go forward to the National Award along with the other nine winners from all regions. 'We are very ecstatic and proud of our team, representing Scotland is our goal along with increasing promotion for Scotland's Tourism .' Dolphin Takeaway, Duncannon, Country Tyrone  In Northern Ireland the Dolphin Takeaway in Dungannon is a top choice, it has also previously won Northern Ireland's No.1 Fish & Chip Shop 2018, a title which it has held for three years.  Bosses say they offer locally supplied ingredients to sustainably sourced fish and  'go the extra mile to ensure food is delicious, healthier and nutritious'.  Fish are fried fresh to order, available in a choice of portion sizes and can be offered gluten-free, with a deluxe cod meal deal costing £9.25.  Speaking to the MailOnline Malachy Malon said: 'We are absolutely delighted to be in the Top 10 Fish and Chip shop for 2020.  'This is our 5th consecutive year to represent Northern Ireland in the National Fish & Chip Awards, and feel honoured to be amongst the best in this amazing industry!' Fish and Chips @ Weston Grove, Chester, Cheshire  In the north west, usually known for its Roman walls, Chester also made the list with Fish & Chips @ Weston Grove.  The company is committed to participation in the Sustainable Palm Oil City project in Chester and says that it works with suppliers to ensure that where palm oil is present, it is sourced from sustainable sources. Bosses have also removed plastic straws and cutlery and ask customers to reuse paper bags they are supplied with, while they also promote an environmental message with talks in local schools. Speaking to MailOnline the team leader Josette said: 'We are ecstatic about the results especially as we were newcomers last year.  'We have an amazing team and we are so proud of them all.'  Shap Chippy, Penrith, Cumbria Elsewhere in north west and Shap Chippy in Cumbria has also firmly cemented itself as a favourite.  With a dedicated team, the staff start their day at 6am in order to make sure all of their potatoes are peeled to make the perfect chips.  Its owners Matt and Ashley, strongly believe in using locally sourced ingredients and also say they look at the science behind cooking to maintain a great taste while using as little oil run off as possible. After learning of their nomination, the team said: 'From Top 60 to Top 20 and now Top 10! After rounds of mystery shops and intensive audits we are proud to be in the finals of the National Fish & Chip Awards 2020! 'We never imagined we would make it this far and we are so humbled by our teams effort and consistent hard work to be the best!' Golden Carp, Redditch, Worcestershire  Having once been hailed the 'best chippy in the West Midlands', the Golden Carp has now made its way into the top 10 chip shops in the country.  The eatery offers a whole range of chip shop classics as well as kebabs and wraps for those who are looking for something outside the usual scope of chip shop favourites. A large cod will cost around £5.50 and you also have the option of choosing the sort of batter you want, with its 'have you fish your way' campaign, which gives you the option of having it lightly battered instead.  On hearing about their nomination for the top 10, the team posted on Facebook: Wow! wow! wow!....We've only gone and got into the final top 10.... off to London we go in January... thank you to all our customers old and new and to each and everyone of our team .. who work tirelessly hard each and every day ... we appreciate you.' Hiks, Swansea, West Glamorgan  Wales also has two entries making the shortlist. The first one being Swansea's Hiks, which opened around seven years ago. It offers a range of meal deals included fish and even battered sausage. Battered jumbo sausage and chips comes to £4.80, while pie and chips costs £5.20 at the eatery, which has an accompanying 41-seater restaurant and car park. TripAdvisor customers have praised the takeaway, with Anderplants commenting how it was 'well worth the wait' for food during a busy night after Swansea City home game. KeithsKeggs wrote that he 'always' goes there for his fish and chips, and loves the 'fantastic food and great service'.  On hearing of their nomination in the top 10, the team said: 'Incredible news this morning as we've literally just been named as one of the top ten fish and chip shops in the UK Looking forward to the finals in January. 'Thanks to all our amazing staff for their hard work.' HOOKED@31, Fishguard, Pembrokeshire  In Pembrokeshire, Hooked @31 offers both fish and chips as well as ice cream and waffles. A small cod and chips costs £5, while the Welsh eatery offers a variety of other takeaway favourites including hunters chicken burger and chips for £6.50 as part of a Monday deal, while pie with chips, gravy and a soft drink comes to £5.50 on Tuesdays. TripAdvisor customer Katie W commented that queues outside were 'always a good sign' and food was always 'fresh' while Chris M said it serves the 'best haddock, chips and peas' in the area. After learning they had made the top to, the team said: 'We've only gone and got into the final.....Team Hooked - you rock - THANK YOU.' Rockfish, Brixham, Devon While in Devon, Rockfish's seaside location makes it the perfect place to enjoy the British classic. With restaurants across Devon and Dorset, customers get the ultimate chip shop experience, with the beach just a stone's throw away from many of the locations. Rockfish prides itself on sustainability, sourcing its products from local markets where fish comes straight from the nearest harbour.  If you're looking for a classic cod it will cost around £6.50, and adding your chips will be an extra £1.25. Offers at the chip shop also include 'Fish Friday' where you get the fresh local catch for just £3.' Speaking to the MailOnline the company said: 'We are so chuffed to make the Top 10 and really proud of the dedication and hard work of the entire team, from our skipper on the fishing trawler to the chefs and serving staff, we're all so happy to be recognised.' Seafare, Guildford, Surrey In the south East, this is your best bet for fish and chip satisfaction, with both the fish and chips being prepared daily on site, the traditional restaurant even offers gluten free options. It was established in 1981 and has special offers including a family meal for just £18.50 and children's meals. Here a jumbo cod would set you back around £6.40 while the menu includes other side dishes to chose from such as pea and pineapple fritters. Keen to move with the times, customers can even sign up to the Seafare's very own loyalty scheme. You will have to spend £10 to get a stamp and once six stamps are collected you will receive a free meal of your choice.  Speaking to the MailOnline on the news of making it into the top 10, the team said: 'We are absolutely delighted with the nomination. 'We work tirelessly to provide top quality food. It's brilliant to be acknowledged on a national scale, by a group of expert judges.' The Cod's Scallops, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire This eatery in the east Midlands serves a wide selection of fish and shellfish daily, depending what comes off their very own boats, also made the top twenty.  No stranger to success, the Cod's and Scallops also managed to scoop an entry on the top 10 fish and chip restaurants.  The Cod's Scallops could be the best bet for those who like to be a little bit more adventurous with their food choices as it also offers dressed crab, cockles and mussels as well as lobster.  This one is a little more on the pricey side compared to other entrants and a cod would cost £9.50. It also boasts award winning pies and desserts. Over the summer the eatery also launched a promotion that with every full price adult meal, a child could eat for free.  John Molnar, owner of The Cod's Scallops, said: 'This is a massive achievement for the shop and staff involved. Hopefully we can make Nottingham the mecca for serving world class fish and chips.'  The winner of the Fish and Chip Shop of the Year Award will be announced at The National Fish & Chip Awards' 32nd anniversary awards ceremony in London on 23 January 2020.  
