food reviews
{ By Claudia Connell for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:59, 17 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7471363/CLAUDIA-CONNELL-reviews-nights-TV-Locked-away-inmates-face-jail-time-killers.html }
 Crime and Punishment: Celebrity MasterChef  The phrase ‘lock them up and throw away the key’ is often heard when discussing the punishment that should be meted out to prisoners. In Crime And Punishment (C4), we learned that there are currently 3,429 inmates in English and Welsh jails for whom that’s a reality. They are prisoners on ‘IPP’ (Imprisonment for Public Protection) sentences — a tariff introduced by the Blair government following its mantra to be ‘tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime’. With no fixed jail term, the criminals must prove themselves fit for freedom and of no risk to the public before being released. In theory, these sentences were to be used in exceptional circumstances, but the reality was very different. With the prison population at breaking point, IPP was abolished seven years ago — but there was no retrospective ruling, meaning prisoners such as Aaron Harris must abide by the terms. Sentenced in 2006 for a serious assault, he has an IQ of 140, is highly articulate yet gripped by mental illness. He is unable to behave safely and thus has never been considered fit for release. The new-look Supermarket Sweep (ITV2) must have been filmed a while ago. Last night there were three ‘loved-up Love Island couples’. The only problem: two of the three are no longer together.  He cut himself when he didn’t get his own way, at one point slashing his leg savagely with a razor blade. Over a four-month period, he self-harmed 30 times. When plans were made to move him out of the medical unit where he felt safe, he threatened to kill himself. For the Winchester jail governor, it was an awful dilemma. Meanwhile, Paul Bousell, another IPP inmate, had served six years for holding up a shop at knifepoint. At his parole hearing, psychologists declared him unfit for release. Bousell, who seemed permanently jumpy and ready to pounce at any moment, believed he was institutionalised and, despite having not hurt anyone in the incident, he faced more time in prison than those who had taken a life. Gritty and disturbing, Crime And Punishment is a series that aims to examine the criminal justice system from all sides. From volatile prisoners to the frazzled staff, the documentary made for compelling, if frustrating, watching, with viewers forced to ask the age-old question: should the penal system be about rehabilitation or retribution? Thankfully all that was asked of viewers of Celebrity MasterChef (BBC1) was to consider who was better at making burger and chips. That was competitors’ first task. John Torode said of legendary Motown singer Martha Reeves: ‘Martha fills me with confidence’ — an odd observation as she had admitted she was only good at making toast. When French actress Elizabeth Bourgine presented her dish, Gregg Wallace was drooling and I’m sure it wasn’t because of her cooking. ‘Those are the most original chips I’ve ever seen!’ declared Torode. (She’d used carrots rather than potatoes.) For their next challenge, the five contestants were split into two teams and sent to different restaurants. Martha was unfazed by the tandoori cod she was asked to prepare, while Olympic long jump gold medallist Greg Rutherford got over-excited about his poussin. ‘Forget jumping into a sandpit, that’s a ridiculous career — this is my calling!’ The rival team weren’t faring so well. Boxer Dillian Whyte’s dressing looked like a ‘dog’s poo poo’, according to the head chef. Elizabeth messed up the steak orders while TV presenter Rickie Haywood-Williams was sent packing as Rutherford emerged as a front runner. No one is making birdcages out of biscuits like they do on Bake Off, but there is something cosily familiar about MasterChef. And the celebrity version is the only cookery show that gives viewers the chance to shout ‘I can do better than that’ at their TV.   
