food reviews
{ By Heidi Parker and Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:56, 16 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7469577/Desperate-Housewives-Nicollette-Sheridan-happy-Project-Angel-Food-Awards.html }
Desperate Housewives star Nicollette Sheridan attended the Project Angel Food Awards in Los Angeles on Saturday. The blonde beauty looked happy with beau of the past year, Jake Marcus, as they held hands. The looker also wore a large ring on her wedding finger begging the question whether she is engaged. This comes just after her DH co-star Felicity Huffman was sentenced to 14 days in prison for her involvement with the college admissions scandal.  Sheridan and her boyfriend of one year looked very much in love on the red carpet. They held hands and posed side by side happily. The 55-year-old Dynasty actress kept her Ray-Ban aviators and wide-brimmed straw hat on during her photo session. She also wore an all-white ensemble. Huffman was sentenced Friday to 14 days in prison for paying $15,000 to rig her daughter’s SAT scores, tearfully apologizing to the teenager for not trusting her to get into college on her own. 'I was frightened, I was stupid, and I was so wrong,' Huffman, 56, said as she became the first parent sentenced in a college admissions scandal that ensnared dozens of wealthy and well-connected mothers and fathers. The scandal exposed the lengths to which parents will go to get their children into the 'right' schools and reinforced suspicions that the college admissions process is slanted toward the rich. In sentencing Huffman, U.S. District Judge Indira Talwani noted the outrage the case has generated, adding that it “isn’t because people discovered that it isn’t a true meritocracy out there.” The outrage, she said, was because Huffman took steps “to get one more advantage” in a system “already so distorted by money and privilege.” Prosecutors had sought a month in prison for Huffman, while her lawyers said she should get probation. A total of 51 people have been charged in the scheme, the biggest college admissions case ever prosecuted by the Justice Department. Prosecutors said parents schemed to manipulate test scores and bribed coaches to get their children into elite schools by having them labeled as recruited athletes for sports they didn’t even play. Sheridan and Huffman were on Desperate Housewives together from 2004 until 2012.  Jamie Lee Curtis suited up to attend the Project Angel Food 29th Annual Angel Awards. The Halloween star posed with Marianne Williamson, the 67-year-old Democratic presidential candidate.    Jamie - who supported Hillary Clinton in 2016 - struck a pose in a black asymmetrical blazer featuring floral embroidery and pointy-toe pumps. Hairstylist Sean James coiffed Curtis' signature white pixie cut for the ceremony where she received the Humanitarian Award.  Make-up artist Camille Clark brought out the actress' natural beauty and she wore fifties-style glasses.  She attended the event with her British Baron husband Christopher Guest, with whom she'll celebrate 35 years of marriage on December 18.  Jamie and the 71-year-old pioneering mockumentary filmmaker have two adopted children - newlywed daughter Annie, 32; and son Thomas, 23. Curtis next play Linda Drysdale-Thrombrey in Rian Johnson's Knives Out, which hits US theaters November 27 and UK theaters November 29.  Lionsgate's black comedy who-done-it - also starring Christopher Plummer and Don Johnson - scored an impressive 100% rating (out of 51 reviews) on Rotten Tomatoes.  Once inside the gala, Jamie posed with notorious anti-vaxxer Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., who's married to Curb Your Enthusiasm star Cheryl Hines.  The University of the Pacific drop-out also got close with Will & Grace star Eric McCormack, looking slim in a khaki blazer and black pants. The Emmy nominee later hit the stage alongside Eric's longtime castmate Sean Hayes from the NBC sitcom.  Also presenting onstage at Project Angel Food were Family Guy actress Jennifer Tilly and Fuller House star Juan Pablo Di Pace.  The 60-year-old Oscar nominee bared her shoulders in a green pea pod-print dress and matching dino purse with a voluminous updo coiffed by hairstylist Paul Norton.  Eighties supermodels Cheryl Tiegs, 71; and Beverly Johnson, 66; reunited on the red carpet in black and white attire, respectively.  Hollywood Medium star Tyler Henry attended the ceremony with his mother Theresa Koelewyn. NCIS alum Pauley Perrette donned a dotty dress and ditched her signature bangs as she posed with Dora and the Lost City of Gold star Danny Trejo. Six-time Emmy-winning comedy writer Bruce Vilanch sported his trademark red glasses as he addressed the crowd.   Two-time Grammy nominee Mary Wilson - who's a founding member of The Supremes - easily defied her 75 years in a sparkly gown and chiffon cape as she performed. Other performers of the evening included Tony winner Sheryl Lee Ralph wearing silver sparkly bell bottoms. Meanwhile, The Voice 16 champ Maelyn Jarmon belted a tune while clad in a plunging navy-blue gown. 
