{ By Emilia Mazza For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  07:18, 15 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7465303/Korean-face-mask-Leaders-Insolution-sells-three-seconds-world.html }
A sheet mask that is so popular it sells at the rate of one every three seconds around the world is now available to Australian beauty buffs. The Aquaringer Mask, created by Korean cult brand Leaders Insolution, not only promises to luxuriously hydrate the skin but also leave it noticeably less lined - in just 15 minutes.  This product's wrinkle-busting properties are backed by Korea's FDA (Food and Drug Administration), who've also given it a tick of approval.  Keen shoppers who wish to add this treatment to their routine will be thrilled the masks, priced $3.90 for a single sheet or $36.95 for ten, are available via stylestory.com.au. Scroll down for video  Although the product boasts an affordable price tag, the sheet mask was developed to the highest standards by a leading dermatology clinic based in Seoul. It comes packed with skin rejuvenating and fine-line eliminating AHAs (alpha-hydroxy acid). These include arnica montana and sodium hyaluronate. Those with sensitive skin will be especially pleased to discover the masks are free of parabens, silicone, artificial pigments, alcohol and mineral oils. While the intensely hydrating treatment has been formulated to deliver a huge hit of moisture to dry skin, the Aquaringer mask is also suitable for any complexion. In addition to its skin rejuvenation properties, the mask is made from silky cellulose - a plant-based compound which softly moulds to the contours of the face.  The mask which currently holds a four out of five-star rating on user-based cosmetics forum Makeup Alley, has many raving about its performance. One person said: 'After each sheet, you can really feel your skin become plumper and immensely hydrated. 'The next morning my face is very soft and bright! It also doesn't dry up too quickly. The "liquid" they give is in very generous amounts.' Another added the mask doesn't 'irritate' and said it also hydrates their sensitive, and eczema-prone skin.  'Phew! And they are really quite cheap too!,' they wrote. One reviewer who awarded the mask four out of five stars said she dropped a point because she wasn't a fan of the scent.  'Love these! For restoring dry skin, one use will work a miracle. Took a point off because I really wish they were unscented,' she said. 
