{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:02, 15 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7465385/Jamie-Lee-Curtis-Project-Angel-Food-Angel-Awards-Gala.html }
Two-time Golden Globe winner Jamie Lee Curtis suited up to attend the Project Angel Food 29th Annual Angel Awards in Los Angeles on Saturday. The Halloween star posed with Marianne Williamson, the 67-year-old Democratic presidential candidate.   Also at the event were Jennifer Tilly, Eric McCormack, Sean Hayes and Nicollette Sheridan. Jamie - who supported Hillary Clinton in 2016 - struck a pose in a black asymmetrical blazer featuring floral embroidery and pointy-toe pumps. Hairstylist Sean James coiffed Curtis' signature white pixie cut for the ceremony where she received the Humanitarian Award.  Make-up artist Camille Clark brought out the actress' natural beauty and she wore fifties-style glasses.  She attended the event with her British Baron husband Christopher Guest, with whom she'll celebrate 35 years of marriage on December 18.  Jamie and the 71-year-old pioneering mockumentary filmmaker have two adopted children - newlywed daughter Annie, 32; and son Thomas, 23. Curtis next play Linda Drysdale-Thrombrey in Rian Johnson's Knives Out, which hits US theaters November 27 and UK theaters November 29.  Lionsgate's black comedy who-done-it - also starring Christopher Plummer and Don Johnson - scored an impressive 100% rating (out of 51 reviews) on Rotten Tomatoes.  Once inside the gala, Jamie posed with notorious anti-vaxxer Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., who's married to Curb Your Enthusiasm star Cheryl Hines.  The University of the Pacific drop-out also got close with Will & Grace star Eric McCormack, looking slim in a khaki blazer and black pants. The Emmy nominee later hit the stage alongside Eric's longtime castmate Sean Hayes from the NBC sitcom.  Also presenting onstage at Project Angel Food were Family Guy actress Jennifer Tilly and Fuller House star Juan Pablo Di Pace.  The 60-year-old Oscar nominee bared her shoulders in a green pea pod-print dress and matching dino purse with a voluminous updo coiffed by hairstylist Paul Norton.  The Angel Awards served as date night for Golden Globe nominee Nicollette Sheridan and her boyfriend of a year, Jake Marcus. The 55-year-old Dynasty actress kept her Ray-Ban aviators and wide-brimmed straw hat on as she stormed the red carpet in an all-white ensemble. Eighties supermodels Cheryl Tiegs, 71; and Beverly Johnson, 66; reunited on the red carpet in black and white attire, respectively.  Hollywood Medium star Tyler Henry attended the ceremony with his mother Theresa Koelewyn. NCIS alum Pauley Perrette donned a dotty dress and ditched her signature bangs as she posed with Dora and the Lost City of Gold star Danny Trejo. Six-time Emmy-winning comedy writer Bruce Vilanch sported his trademark red glasses as he addressed the crowd.   Two-time Grammy nominee Mary Wilson - who's a founding member of The Supremes - easily defied her 75 years in a sparkly gown and chiffon cape as she performed. Other performers of the evening included Tony winner Sheryl Lee Ralph wearing silver sparkly bell bottoms. Meanwhile, The Voice 16 champ Maelyn Jarmon belted a tune while clad in a plunging navy-blue gown. 
