{ By Raven Saunt For Mailonline   Published:  18:25, 12 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7457251/Couples-20-000-dream-wedding-ruined-ruined-series-misfortunes.html }
A couple who spent in excess of £20,000 on their dream wedding have claimed that their big day was ruined by a string of errors at the venue. Simon and Chloe Ross chose to get married at the Maes Manor Hotel in Blackwood, Wales, on Thursday August 29. The Georgian-built country house described itself online as the 'perfect venue' with a 'friendly professional team on hand to ensure that everything runs smoothly'. But what should have been a special day to remember turned out to be one that the couple would rather forget. The series of misfortunes began when the ceremony music kept cutting out as the bride walked down the aisle, which forced Chloe and the bridal party to repeatedly start again. Once at the reception, the DJ then announced the wrong couple's name for the first dance. As if their day could not get worse they discovered later that £260 in cash that they had received in gift donations went missing after the secure box it had been collected in was left in an area with no working CCTV. Simon, a customer services advisor from Tonteg, near Pontypridd, said: 'Honestly, it was a total disaster, the wedding from hell. 'To watch Chloe have to repeatedly restart her walk down the aisle was awful - and all because someone thought it was a good idea to play the track we'd chosen via YouTube, the WiFi connection for which kept buffering. 'The fact I was also left standing there up front like a lemon didn't help either.  'I was cringing inside.  'Then, come the first dance, the DJ called us Mr and Mrs Moss instead of Ross.' Simon said that it was not his fault because that was the information that he had been handed by the hotel staff. He added: 'Had we not spent so much money on the ceremony then I'd probably look back and laugh about it all. 'But there's nothing even vaguely funny about the fact some of our wedding money later went walkabout.  'After a quick ring around the next morning we worked out that a number of cards had gone missing, amounting to £260 in gift money. 'But when I brought it up I was told that I'd previously signed a form which said the hotel wasn't liable for the loss of any personal items occurring on the property.  'However, when I asked to provide that paperwork, they couldn't prove I'd signed any such thing.'  The 32-year-old claims that when he said he would post an online review about their experience at Maes Manor he was told that any 'inaccurate criticism' on social media would be met with legal action. He added that the venue also accused him of turning up at the hotel to 'harass staff members' and that any further visits would be met with a call to the police.  Maes Manor's manager Michael Yarnold - who was not the manager at the time of the wedding - apologised for the tone of that email and added that an apology had since been issued to Simon and Chloe. Mr Yarnold said: 'That was dealt with in the wrong way and I've spoken to the directors about that. 'The directors shouldn't have been left to sort this issue out and had there been any management in place here at the time it wouldn't have come to that.' He explained that both the previous manager and assistant manager had left not long after the couple's wedding which is when he then took up the role.  He added: 'Nevertheless, I am aware of the couple's situation and really feel for them.  'Had I been in charge I would have done things differently, like making sure the wedding music was already downloaded and not left to stream on the day itself. 'With regards to the money - we've never had an issue like that before and I've put procedures in place to prevent this ever happening again. 'For example, we've got someone coming out to fix the CCTV which had been disabled by a water leak. 'And, while I can't just open a till and offer them back the missing cash I would like to offer the couple an evening's stay here, along with dinner and breakfast as compensation, the total cost of which would come to more than the amount they say was lost. 'I'm distraught about what happened and if there's anything Maes Manor can do in hospitality terms to put this right I'm more than happy to do that.'  
