food reviews
{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:56, 10 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/holidays/article-7353127/Tui-wouldnt-refund-despite-hotel-sickness-outbreak-fears.html }
A Tui customer had to alter her holiday plans after finding out the hotel she was due to stay at has been described as having suffered from a sickness outbreak. Barbara Marriott, 56, was due to fly to the Playa Flamingo Beach Resort in Lanzarote at the end of August with her husband and daughter.  All were excited for the week long trip but this feeling soon dissipated after Barbara's daughter started reading the latest reviews for the resort on TripAdvisor. They discovered that there has been an ongoing reported outbreak of gastroenteritis which among holidaymakers both during and after their stays. Barbara, a full-time housewife, was also alarmed to find reports of poor hygiene levels, the smell of raw sewage, faulty air conditioning, as well as food allergies not being adhered to. She also noticed that reports of illness had been continuing for some time with outbreaks of gastroenteritis going back to December 2012 as well as several times in between. She said: 'I know you always get some people moaning and you can't please everyone but I feel this case is on a completely different level.' Her research also led her to find a number of holiday claim submissions that have been made by previous customers regarding the hotel. Irwin Mitchell Solicitors even reported a case where a 10-month old baby staying at the hotel had suffered salmonella poisoning. The parents of the child said they were served lukewarm food and worried that this is what could have caused the illness. Barbara said: 'We paid over £1,800 for our holiday in good faith but we are now frightened and worried about our holiday. I do not want to put my family and I at risk and enter an environment that is clearly not fit. 'The holiday is based on an all-inclusive package but we do not want to eat drink swim or use any of the facilities as we consider it to be a severe health risk.' After seeing all of the claims against the hotel, Barbara contacted Tui to express her concerns and say that she wanted to change to stay in alternative accommodation. However, the advisor she spoke to said this would incur a 70 per cent price hike and also said that Tui was not aware of any illness outbreak. Barbara advised them that her husband had been in hospital in January of this year and she did not want him exposed to an unhealthy environment. Tui said they would get back to her with more information within a week but Barbara didn't hear any more until This is Money contacted the holiday firm. A TUI UK spokesperson: 'We are sorry to hear about the concerns Mrs Marriott has ahead of her family holiday to Lanzarote. 'All of our hotels are regularly audited in relation to health and safety, including hygiene, and the hotel have increased their hygiene protocols on top of their already stringent measures. We will be contacting the customer directly to discuss their holiday in greater detail and to resolve any issues.' Since This is Money contacted Tui, Barbara was able to rearrange her stay to another hotel in Lanzarote at no extra cost. But they had to fly from Newcastle instead of Manchester, with much later flight times that have necessitated overnight accommodation on their return. Barbara added: 'It would have been nice if they had come to a compromise and let us keep the original flight and just change hotel.' The Marriott family are not the only ones to have experienced such issues. Recent reviews on TripAdvisor seem to corroborate their fears.   This is Money has also reported on a couple who flew on an all inclusive break with Tui to get married but returned not sure if they were even legally wed.    Jatinder Paul, Senior Associate Solicitor in Irwin Mitchell's International Serious Injury Team, said: 'Where customers become aware of repeated illness at a hotel before they get there, they should contact their tour operator as soon as possible to flag this and ask to be moved to a different hotel, resort or destination, if possible. 'Depending on tour operator, this is sometimes enough. On occasion, a tour operator may refuse and ask you to pay for cancellation or amended booking. If this happens, you should contact ABTA as soon as possible who will intervene (sometimes they will commence a mediation to resolve an issue). 'Consumers should also try to book their holiday using a credit card because if you are unsuccessful in liaising with the tour operator in getting your holiday moved, you could potentially cancel and claim the cost of this back from your credit card company but you should speak to your credit card company first. 'It is established law that a tour operator has a duty of care to a package holiday consumer to send them to a hotel/holiday which is fit for purpose and will not make them ill.  'For those who do fall ill, ultimately our advice is that they should contact a specialist lawyer with knowledge of these types of claims such as Irwin Mitchell, as this is a highly specialised area of law.'  As hundreds of families return from their summer holidays abroad, many came back with more than they bargained for as a result of suffering gastric illness, and expert travel lawyers have revealed what to do when a holiday did not go as planned. Irwin Mitchell Solicitors has represented thousands of holidaymakers and recovered millions of pounds for holidaymakers over the past 20 years after their breaks were ruined due to illness. While many people will have enjoyed their summer holidays with little fuss, Irwin Mitchell has been asked to help hundreds of holidaymakers who were not so fortunate and experienced gastric illness symptoms including diarrhoea, vomiting, lethargy and stomach cramps.  Some contracted potentially life-threatening illnesses such as Salmonella and E-Coli and required emergency medical treatment.   Irwin Mitchell Solicitors have given their top tips on what travellers can do when returning from a trip which hasn't gone according to plan.  • Report any issues as soon as they arise or as soon as possible thereafter to your holiday representative • Make sure you complete a written complaint form, give it to your holiday representative and keep a copy • Take photographs and videos showing any health or hygiene conditions you are concerned about to support your complaint • Take contact details of other holidaymakers who have suffered similar problems • If you sought medical help whilst abroad, make sure you get a copy of the doctor's report • If your complaint was not addressed, you should write to the tour operator within 28 days of returning to the UK and seek follow up medical treatment for any illness you have suffered • If your complaint is not satisfactorily resolved at this stage you may wish to take legal advice from a solicitor specialising in foreign illness claims Lawyers say most of the problems reported to them are due to inadequate health, hygiene and food standards and are repeating their calls for tour operators to do more to ensure hygiene standards are improved in failing hotels and on board cruise liners.    
