food reviews
{ By Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  01:52, 10 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7445857/Downton-Abbey-film-review-Big-screen-adaptation-opens-mixed-response-critics.html }
After four years off our TV screens, Downton Abbey returned on Monday night for the world premiere of its big screen adaptation.  The big budget film, which is a continuation of the hit historical ITV period drama, opened to a mixed response from critics ahead of it's UK release on Friday. While some film experts labelled the spin-off as 'ridiculous vanilla-flavoured fun', others gave harsher reviews, stating Downton Abbey 'should have remained a TV show'.   The Downton Abbey movie, directed by Michael Engler, comes four years after the final episode aired on TV and follows a royal visit to the sprawling manor. It is set in the autumn of 1927. Dame Maggie, Dockery and Bonneville all reprise their roles, alongside Allen Leech, Dame Penelope Wilton, Joanne Froggatt, Phyllis Logan, Elizabeth McGovern, Jim Carter, Laura Carmichael and Lesley Nicol. The Daily Mail's Brian Viner gave the adaptation three out of a five stars. He wrote:  'Could Downton’s creator Julian Fellowes and US director Michael Engler, a TV veteran without much feature-film experience, really make their story properly cinematic? 'The answer is yes, up to a point. The lavish production values and meticulous period detail transfer splendidly to the big screen.  'But in essence, this film is nothing more than an entire series in miniature, full of compacted plots and sub-plots, some compelling, some preposterous, some purring with early promise then fizzling out, just like on the telly.'   The Guardian's Peter Bradshaw also gave the film three stars and described the standalone film as feeling like an 'intensely glucose Christmas special'. 'With Robert Altman’s shrewd directorial flair for ensemble playing, Gosford Park was a witty, spiky, subversive tale of violence and snobbery,' he wrote.  'Downton Abbey on TV was much more lightweight, and this is a bit exposed in the cinema.  'It’s actually possible to imagine a new TV series spun off in turn from this movie, which is even more vanilla, and then a new film, and so on, until we have incrementally blanded down to something like My Little Pony.' The film's plot follows King George V and Queen Mary, portrayed by cast newcomers Simon Jones and Geraldine James, who grace grace the Abbey with their company, along with new character Lady Maud Bagshaw, played by Imelda Staunton, who also joins the franchise.  MailOnline's Joanna Crawley also described the film as being like an 'extended Christmas episode' and described Maggie Smith as 'scene stealing'.  She wrote: 'The cinematography has been amped up for the cinema audience, with sweeping shots of the grand house coming thick and fast while the the dazzling ariel views of the ballroom dancing really do lend themselves to this new home on the big screen. 'Other TV to movie transitions aren’t quite as successful. Downton tries its best to live up to its big scene billing with some action-led set pieces, but these hurried plot points are hugely overshone by the cosy familiarity of the script...  'The finale belongs to Smith and the excellent Michelle Dockery though, who share the film’s, and perhaps the entire Downton story’s most tender moment.' Meanwhile the New York Post's Johnny Oleksinski gave a measley one and half stars, panning the film as he wrote: 'Two thumbs down for Downton'. 'This film is nothing more than an entire series in miniature, full of compacted plots and sub-plots, some compelling, some preposterous, some purring'  - Brian Viner, Daily Mail   'Julian Fellowes would have been far better off writing another relaxed Christmas special to satisfy fans' – Johnny Oleksinski, New York Post   – Grant Rollings, The Sun  'Upscaling the cosy charms of the series hasn't entirely worked, in that you couldn't say this comfortably belongs in a cinema at any stage'  – Tim Robey, The Telegraph 'Standing on the strong foundations of the series’ success, the film-makers sensibly resist the temptation to do anything other than build on their established crowd-pleasing formula'  – Chris Hunneysett, The Mirror 'Julian Fellowes would have been far better off writing another relaxed Christmas special to satisfy fans, but to pump up the film’s flowery, small-screen plot, shots are overly sweeping and every character’s entrance is given a metaphorical drumroll.  'The sexy intimacy that made the TV show great is destroyed, fellowes also went way too wild on the zingers, and suddenly every lady’s maid is Oscar Wilde. 'Speaking of the actors, most of them — Michelle Dockery, Elizabeth McGovern, Allen Leech, etc. — are back. And, like the dining room china, they’re fine.'  The Sun meanwhile gave the film raving reviews, describing it as not only the 'film of the year, but of the decade'.  They applauded screenwriter Julian for allowing each character to have their time to shine, the film's three romances and praised Dame Maggie's Smiths quick wit as 'the biting Violet.' 'This film puts the lite into polite, the fine into refined and the cent into decent,' they wrote.  With three out of five stars, The Telegraph's Tim Robey's echoed The Guardian's views about whether Downton Abbey could come to life on the big screen. 'Upscaling the cosy charms of the series hasn't entirely worked, in that you couldn't say this comfortably belongs in a cinema at any stage,' he wrote.  'Watching it is like settling into a reupholstered armchair which still creaks in the same old places.' Perhaps the most raving review of the film came from The Mirror, who gave it four out of five stars and described it as a 'crowd pleaser'.  They wrote: 'Standing on the strong foundations of the series’ success, the film-makers sensibly resist the temptation to do anything other than build on their established crowd-pleasing formula.'  Downton Abbey is released in UK cinemas on Friday September 13. The Crawley family, and not forgetting Carson and his staff left us almost four years ago and while our world may have changed since then, theirs very much hasn’t. And so, many Downton Abbey fans will find it difficult not to be moved by the feeling of familiarity the anticipated film follow-up to the beloved ITV series brings. Julian Fellowes has created big screen magic from his small screen success, and it’s all for the fans. The film picks up in 1927, two years on from where the final episode, which aired Christmas 2015, concluded. And while the Great Depression looms, there is a sense of stability in the household. Lady Mary (Michelle Dockery) and Lady Edith, now the Marchioness of Hexham (Laura Carmichael), are both happily married, and for once on good sisterly terms. The Dowager Countess (Dame Maggie Smith) and Mrs Crawley (Penelope Wilton) are whiling away the hours between high tea and dinner with some good natured banter. And there’s Lord Grantham (Hugh Bonneville) roaming his estate with his dog by his side. The one major change is the absence of Carson (Jim Carter) who has swapped his butler livery for gardening gloves in his new life of retirement, leaving Thomas Barrow (Rob James-Collier) in charge. So where’s the drama in this epitome of period dramas? That comes via a letter from Buckingham Palace making its way to Downton in the opening sequence, revealing that the King and Queen, played by Simon Jones and Geraldine James, will be paying a visit. Of course, this means choice words from Mrs Patmore (Lesley Nicol) down in the kitchen and a headache for Lady Mary who puts herself in charge of organising the house. It soon transpires that such an event in Downton’s history cannot do without Carson, who is promptly bought back up to the house by Mary because as Mrs Hughes (Phyllis Logan) tells him “you never can say no to her”. As well as royalty there’s the royal staff to deal with, leading to a downstairs mutiny and an upstairs scene steal from the brilliant Kevin Doyle as Mr Molesley. New faces provide the obligatory love stories too. Now Edith and Mary have finally found happiness, after leaving a trail of broken hearted and deceased men in their wake, romance arrives for the men of the house. Tom Branson (Allen Leech), widowed for seven years since the death of Lady Sybil, falls for Lucy (Tuppence Middleton), the maid of the Queen’s Lady in Waiting Maud Bagshaw, another new character played by Imelda Staunton. Barrow meanwhile provides an attempt at a slightly less saccharine storyline, as his homosexuality is at last given the time to be explored in some depth when he befriends a member of the royal household, the dashing Max Brown. It’s the old faces fans really want to see though and Fellowes is such a master puppeteer of the heart strings, only the most heard-hearted will fail to have a lump in their throat when Carson strides up to the house again. Recycled storylines like thievery of the household silver and a new spanner in the works for the Crawley family’s inheritance, pepper the royal visit set piece, but they’re rushed through and wrapped up in a neat bow so as not to bother too much. The Christmas special episodes of Downton had a run time of 90 minutes and at just 30 minutes longer, the film does feel like another one of those extended episodes. The cinematography has been amped up for the cinema audience, with sweeping shots of the grand house coming thick and fast while the the dazzling ariel views of the ballroom dancing really do lend themselves to this new home on the big screen. Other TV to movie transitions aren’t quite as successful. Downton tries its best to live up to its big scene billing with some action-led set pieces, but these hurried plot points are hugely overshone by the cosy familiarity of the script. As ever, the Dowager and Mrs Crawley’s verbal sparring give the film a jolt when the endless cups of tea and sweeping vistas send the audience into a light doze, and it’s thrilling to see Imelda Staunton share the screen with Dame Maggie. Fellowes understands and bows down to his acting talent, saving the most fleshed out backstory among his new characters for Staunton, as well as the VIP seat next to Smith. The finale belongs to Smith and the excellent Michelle Dockery though, who share the film’s, and perhaps the entire Downton story’s most tender moment. Aside from the Dowager’s wisecracks, the script’s stand-out line comes toward the beginning as amid a chorus of fatigue about the royal visit from her family, Lady Cora declares: ‘Isn’t it their role to brighten the lives of the nation with stateliness and glamour?’ And with that attitude, Downton the movie has hit the nail on the head.    
