{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  23:59, 9 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7430651/Starpowa-better-hair-skin-nails.html }
Summer fun in the sun may feel like a glorious time for our social lives, but it can play havoc with our bodies. From chlorinated pools to hours of sun exposure on the beach, our skin, hair and nails take a battering in the quest for being bronzed. Many of us will have been dealing with frizzy, fried ends that snapped off come September, while others will be trying to hydrate parched skin that not even a gallon of moisturiser seems able to fix. And don't even start about what wedding season shellacs have done to our poor nails. But now autumn is rolling around, it's the perfect time to get to grips with our troubled trio of beauty woes - and thousands of women think they've found the answer in Starpowa.  This first-of-its-kind skin, hair and nails vitamin and nutrient-packed gummy supplement has taken the health market by storm. Vegan-friendly, filled with clinically-proven ingredients and with the added bonus of tasting amazing, Starpowa, a 4.5 star bestseller in health store Holland & Barrett, is helping women from their teens to their fifties and beyond be happy in their own skin - with the added benefit of rocking longer, stronger locks and fast-growing, healthy nails. ‘My hair gets so dry in summer… but after a few weeks of these gummies my hair has never looked better’ Eden, 22, business owner, Essex ‘When it comes to my hair, I have always had an issue with dryness. Everyone wants thicker, longer hair, but because it gets so dry, it easy snaps – especially after summer holidays. ‘I notice a big difference in my hair when I’m stressed – especially as I run a business – or when my diet isn’t right. ‘I also notice that my skin is affected by junk food. I’ve tried everything; lots of different hair masks and trying to have my hair trimmed every 6 weeks to try and make it grow and become thicker. ‘But as my diet makes such a dramatic difference to my hair, skin and nails, I decided to try and help my body by taking vitamins. A friend of mine recommended Starpowa and I’m so glad she did; I am completely obsessed with this product now! ‘My hair got thicker and shiner within the first two weeks of taking the product. Not only that, but my nails are so much stronger and grow much quicker. My hair has never looked better, I get asked about my hair near enough every day and how I got it so long so quick! ‘I have already recommended to friends and family as I was so impressed with the product and will 100 per cent letting more people know!’ Does your dry hair need a boost after months of summer fun? Starpowa gummies are now half price at Holland & Barrett, with a month's supply costing just £19.99... order yours HERE...  Our screens have been filled with stunning contestants looking for love over the last few years, but when all cameras and eyes are on you while you date your way to finding the one, you need to feel and look your best at all times.  That's why reality hottest stars turn to Starpowa to ensure their hair, skin and nails are always their type on paper.    Lucie Rose Donlan (above) is renowned for her amazing curly blonde locks and perfect skin - and takes her twice-daily gummies to maintain them.  Meanwhile, Bella Hassan (below) insists the tasty vitamins have kept her ready for her close-up. She says: 'These are honestly amazing - I’ve been taking them for just over a month now and already I can see my skin and hair in better condition which is always so important to me with all the make-up I wear and extensions I have so it’s amazing to see my hair still so healthy.'   ‘I was blown away by the difference in a just a few weeks… the length and strength of my nails is unreal’ Sarah, 28, assistant teacher from Walthamstow ‘I’ve always had issues with my nails, especially in summer for some reason. The main problem is they are weak and take a very long time to grow, if at all. ‘For me, as an assistant teacher, I always want to make sure that my hair and nails look presentable as I deal with kids on a daily basis and you know how children are these days; they will comment on everything and ask you: “Why are your nails like that?” ‘When I was a teenager, I used to get my nails done a lot from acrylic to shellac and I never let my nails to be natural or use other products to help my nails to recover and grow naturally. When I was 23 I decided to look for other alternatives to help the strength of my nail and give life back to it. ‘Stress plays a big part to why I used to get my nails done as every time I used to feel stressed out, I turned to biting my nails and I thought I wouldn’t bite them if I had paid to have them done professionally. ‘I’ve used natural ingredients to try and help them grow and it didn’t work for me. I set out to look for a vitamin that would work and one of the main reasons I opted for Starpowa was that the customer reviews were amazing. ‘I was unsure but when I tried it I was blown away. The first two weeks I saw a difference but I didn't want to be disappointed in case my nails started to break. After using Starpowa for a month and following the instructions I was so happy with the results – my nails were strong and the length is unreal. ‘I also saw results in my skin and hair too but my main concern was my nails. This one hundred percent does everything it says on the bottle.’ Do your nails need a helping hand? Get to grips with your problem areas with Starpowa - available to buy HERE for half price from Holland & Barrett...  While we're all going to have days when we have to cover up a blemish or let out of a sigh over split ends, the essential vitamins, key minerals, organic compounds and amino acids in Starpowa, alongside a healthy diet, can help provide the nutrients we need on the inside - making it much easier to look great on the outside. And getting your daily dose couldn't be easier - you simply need to add two gummies to your morning routine.  But what are the amazing natural ingredients that give Starpowa its power? Click HERE to find out the magic formula that's helping women secure their skin, hair and nails health... 
