{ By Emily Kent Smith for Daily Mail and Jennifer Smith For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:48, 9 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7443977/YouTubes-highest-earner-Ryan-Kaji-hit-investigation-Federal-Trade-Commission-adverts.html }
An seven-year-old millionaire YouTuber may be facing an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission amid accusations that he pushed unwitting children into buying toys made by his sponsors. Ryan Kaji is the star of Ryan ToysReview channel, which has 21 million subscribers, and sees him unbox and play with toys which he then reviews. The child is worth $22million and was last year named YouTube's highest earner by Forbes magazine. The account is run by his parents, Shion Guan and his 35-year-old wife Kieu-Loan, who calls herself Loann. Together, they have found themselves at the center of a row after a lobbying group said they did not make it clear to other children that he was pushing toys from companies that had sponsored him.  In a complaint filed to the FTC, consumer watchdog Truth In Advertising accused Ryan of not clearly disclosing paid sponsorship from brands such as Walmart.  They say that 90 percent of the family's videos include a paid-for product but that they do not always label them as such.  Google - which owns YouTube and takes a 45 percent cut of ad revenue from influencers - has not commented on the complaint.  When contacted by DailyMail.com, a spokesman referred back to a recent policy change in content designed for children which will stop personalized ads on all kids' content over the next four months.   Scroll down for video  Ryan's parents, Shion and Loan Guan, who run the channel, are named in the papers rather than the seven-year-old. Kaji is a name the family uses to protect their privacy online.  Neither of Ryan's parents have a social media presence and it is unclear what they did for work before launching their YouTube channel.  In 2017, they registered the name Remka Inc as the company which Ryan ToysReviews sits under.  The family is registered to several properties including a six-bedroom property in Cypress, Texas, worth an estimated $995,000.  In its complaint, Truth in Advertising writes: 'It is often difficult to discern the innocent (or sometimes not so innocent ) antics in Ryan ToysReview videos from the sponsored content. And for preschoolers, it is impossible to discern the difference.'  The FTC said it does not comment on whether it is investigating an individual, company or website. The commission only publishes findings once a probe is completed, it said. The well-being of our viewers is always the top priority for us, and we strictly follow all platforms’ terms of service and all existing laws and regulations, including advertising disclosure requirements. As the streaming space continues to quickly grow and evolve, we support efforts by lawmakers, industry representatives and regulators such as the F.T.C. to continuously evaluate and update existing guidelines and lay new ground rules to protect both viewers and creators. It is not entirely clear how the channel drove millions in revenue last year, but the family have worked with Chuck E. Cheese, Walmart, Colgate and Nickelodeon. Walmart, who wants to fill the void left by Toys R Us, has partnered with the YouTuber to make a line of toys called 'Ryan's World.' Meanwhile, Nickelodeon has its own cable TV spin-off show based on his YouTube channel called Ryan’s Mystery Playdate.  His most recent deal is with dental giant Colgate, and they have released toothbrushes, mouthwash and toothpaste with Ryan's branding on.  The family said they follow advertising rules strictly.   'The well-being of our viewers is always the top priority for us, and we strictly follow all platforms’ terms of service and all existing laws and regulations, including advertising disclosure requirements,' they said in a statement.    Google, which takes a 45 percent cut of influencers' ad revenue, has not commented recently on the case but   Ryan's mother Loan told Moms.com last month: 'Ryan loves recording videos, so it's great to see him have fun with it and see how rapidly the YouTube channel has grown.' She added, 'We are very careful when partnering with brands and always take our time to make sure that they truly fit with Ryan and our family. 'We love to work with brands of which we are already fans, so we were very excited by our recent partnership with Colgate Kids.'  According to his mother, Ryan was once an avid watcher of toy reviews, especially ones that focused on Thomas the Tank Engine, before he asked to start his own channel. 'One day, he asked me, "How come I'm not on YouTube when all the other kids are?" So we just decided - yeah, we can do that,' Loan, told TubeFilter. 'Then, we took him to the store to get his very first toy - I think it was a Lego train set - and it all started from there.'  The YouTube channel, Ryan's father said, was also a way to share bits of his son's life with their extended family members, many of whom live outside the US.  One of his most popular videos, 'HUGE EGGS Surprise Toys Challenge with Inflatable water slide,' has 1.8 billion views. The video sees Ryan going down a massive inflatable slide with water at the bottom and trying to find surprise eggs in his back yard. Ryan's videos have become so successful that he now even has his own line of toys.  It includes a Giant Mystery Egg, which is filled with different toys including slime, lights, and a limited edition squishy toy.  Ryan told Moms.com: 'I want to make toys that I can play with all of my friends.  'I was happy when I was able to create the Giant Mystery Egg with a bunch of my favorite toys and playthings like slime and figures. I just want to make stuff that kids my age like too, so I can’t wait to figure out what that next big thing is.' Ryan's father often appears in his son's clips, which see Ryan discovering and playing with various types of toys, often while making appreciative comments.  His family have since created a second channel called Ryan's Family Review, which features the family completing different challenges, blogs and a tour of the family's house.  Most of his viewers are children between the ages of three and seven, according to his father. The majority of Ryan's fans are located in the US, but many also live in the UK and in the Philippines.  Ryan's mother, a former high school chemistry teacher, has quit her job to work full-time on her son's channel. Her husband works as a structural engineer.     His younger identical twin sisters Emma and Kate have also previously featured in his videos.  Jake Paul, another colossal YouTuber with more than 19 million subscribers, has similarly come under fire for his videos which are laced with his own merchandise. His audience is largely made up of school children, however YouTube has defended itself in the past by saying the website is not meant for people aged under 13. The Google-owned broadcasting site was fined $170 million to settle allegations it collected children's personal data without their parents' consent last month. Google said YouTube would limit data collection on users who watch children's programming on its main site, even if the user is an adult.  Meanwhile, Google said it would promote YouTube Kids, its children's version of the site, with a new marketing campaign. Although this does not address Truth In Advertising's concerns entirely, Patten said it shows Google was trying to take steps in the right direction. She said her group's aims were not to stop influencers from making money, but to prevent the exploitation of children. 
