{ By Sameer Suri For Dailymail.com   Published:  08:28, 9 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7442583/Jennifer-Lopez-sparkles-sheer-wrap-dress-Constance-Wu-Hustlers-TIFF-press-conference.html }
Their new movie Hustlers has earned rave reviews after premiering on Saturday at the Toronto International Film Festival. And Jennifer Lopez and Constance Wu gave a press conference for the film this Sunday in Ontario's capital. Jennifer, 50, glowed as she posed up in a sparkling navy blue wrap dress that went sheer above the waist to hint at her sculpted dancer's body. Meanwhile, Constance opted for a summery floral number with a red background, accessorizing with a couple of necklaces including a cross. Also starring Cardi B, Keke Palmer, Julia Stiles and Lili Reinhart, the film follows a group of New York strippers who take revenge on their wealthy clients. Hustlers is written and directed by Lorene Scafaria, who had the same positions on the 2012 dramedy Seeking A Friend For The End Of The World. Lorene's latest movie is based on a 2015 article for New York magazine called The Hustlers At Scores, written by Jessica Pressler. The ring of women described in the article would drug their clients and then run up massive bills on their credit cards.  Cardi used to be a stripper in real life before achieving stardom as a rapper - and a recent controversy revealed her similarity to the subjects of the magazine piece. An old Instagram video resurfaced a few months ago in which she shared that during her stripper days 'I'd drug' men up and 'I'd rob them.' A storm of online criticism resulted, including comparisons to R. Kelly and Bill Cosby, leading Cardi to post an Instagram apology. 'There are rappers that glorify murder violence drugs an robbing. Crimes they feel they had to do to survive,' she wrote in the post, which she has since deleted.  'I never glorified the things I brought up in that live I never even put those things in my music because I’m not proud of it and feel a responsibility not to glorify it.' Hustlers has been rapturously received by the critics at Toronto and currently holds a 95% rating on the review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes. As IndieWire hailed the film as 'funny, empowering, sexy, emotional, and a bit scary,' USA Today called it 'An enjoyable, empowering extravaganza of physical humor, clever scriptwriting, exquisite fashion and scantily clad underdogs.' It has not all been smooth sailing, though, as Jennifer was heckled by animal rights protesters while walking Saturday's premiere red carpet. In video footage obtained by TMZ, one protester could be heard screaming: 'Shame on you, J-Lo, for wearing fur! Shame on Jennifer Lopez for wearing fur!' Jennifer has attracted fury for years over her habit of wearing fur, such as when she included the material in her Sweetface clothing line. PETA (People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals) staged a protest at the premiere of her 2005 film Monster-In-Law, co-starring Jane Fonda. The organization even created a computer game called J. Lo: Monster In Fur where players try to save animals from use in the pop star's fashion brand. 
