food reviews
{ By Emily Webber and Milly Vincent and Sophie Law and Phoebe Eckersley For Mailonline   Published:  13:58, 8 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7440455/Britains-100-influencers-revealed-Gamers-lifestyle-fitness-vloggers.html }
They are the stars of the internet who have made their millions from their social media following.  And now the top 100 influencers have been announced for 2019 based on their social media engagement and loyal list of followers.  The internet sensations have learned to monetise their YouTube uploads and grow their social media subscribers, in the list compiled by The Sunday Times.  1. Felix Kjellberg, 29, known as PewdieDiePie - Gamer  PewDiePie made his fortune from his commentary while playing video games. The YouTuber uploads videos of him playing Minecraft where he can rake in £2,701 per minute of footage.  Felix lives in Brighton and is from Gothenburg, Sweden and has 101 million YouTube subscribers The Swedish internet sensation has a net worth of £16 million and in August he got married to his long-term girlfriend Marzia Bisognin, 26, at the Temperate House and the Nash Conservatory in Kew Gardens, London.  He has previously earned blacklash for including racist and antisemitic messages in his videos. In July 2018, he posted an insensitive meme related to the 25-year-old pop star Demi Lovato, following her overdose and alleged heroin use. 2. Olajide William Oltunj, 26, known as KSI - Gamer  Olajide is from Watford, Hertfordshire. He makes gaming and music video and has 20 million subscribers.  He is the 99th most subscribed user on YouTube and has reached more than four million views on his channel.  The Watford star began recording videos on YouTube in 2008, which centered on him playing the football video game FIFA. In 2011, he used his channel to branch out into the music industry and has since released a collaborative rap album with fellow YouTuber Randolph.  He has a net worth of £4 million and in 2016 he was crowned Vlogger of the Year at the NME awards.    3. Craig Thompson, 24, known as Mini Ladd - Gamer Craig lives in Portlend, Oregon. He makes videos on gaming and has 5.7 million subscribers.  He is half-English and half-Northern Irish and uploads videos with his commentary on Minecraft, memes and Golf It.  Craig grew up in Derry, Northern Ireland, and started creating videos in 2011 and dropped out of university to pursue a career in YouTube.  The Dubai-born YouTuber is in a relationship with Twitch star live streaming video platform, SuniDey.  Thanks to his comedic videos he has a net worth of £3.3 million, which is set to increase as his channel progresses.  4. Billy Wingrove, 36, and Jeremy Lynch, 28, - Freestyle Footballers  Billy and Jeremy are known as F2Freestylers and make videos of football tutorials, pranks and challenges. The pair have 10 million subscribers.  Billy, a midfielder and forward, is from London and was the first freestyler to be signed up as a professional 'Football Freestyler' by Tottenham Hotspur.  His fellow YouTube star Jeremy is a Jamaican international footballer who plays as a striker for Hai Phòng, Vietnam.   5. Saffron Barker, 19 - Lifestyle  Saffron is from Brighton and makes videos on lifestyle and has two million subscribers on Youtube.  The teenager is set to follow in the footsteps of fellow social media sensation Joe Sugg, after she was confirmed in the line-up for the 2019 series of Strictly Come Dancing.  Saffron has a reported net worth of £906,000 from her YouTube content which focuses on a mix of make up, challenge videos and pranks.   6. Joe Sugg, 28, Entertainment - ThatcherJoeVlogs Known as Thatcher Joe when he first started his channel Thatcher Joe Vlogs the former thatcher has carved a niche for himself in the entertainment world. Beginning with prank videos, often on his fellow Youtuber sister Zoella Sugg, then a long stint on Strictly Come dancing, the now actor has now graduated to London's West - starring in Waitress The Musical.  The TV personality created his YouTube channel ThatcherJoe in November 2011, which has since garnered 8.1million followers  Joe went on to win the hearts of the nation after falling for his dance partner Dianne Buswell whilst on Strictly Come Dancing, later sharing an image of the two captioned: 'I may not have won the glitter ball, but I've won something a million times more special.' Dianne and Joe now live together in London and have been inseparable since  falling for each other on the show.    7. Chelsea Clarke, Beauty - CC Clarke Beauty Chelsea Clarke, a British beauty guru, has built her empire since her start on Youtube channel in 2015 Beginning by doing outrageous tutorials the make-up artist now has her own clothing and wig line, Hair by CC.  The Essex make-up queen has earned 244,000 followers on her YouTube channel, CC Clarke Beauty, where she posts tutorials, do's and don'ts and reviews.  The vlogger featured in the Netflix documentary about Fyre, the 2017 music festival in the Bahamas that never happened.    8. Callum Leighton Airey Calfreezy Gaming British vlogger Callum rose to fame after the sucess of his YouTube channel 'Calfreezy'.  He uploads videos on gaming including FIFA and shares pranks to his loyal following of 3.1 million YouTube subscribers.  Callum is also the founder of YouTube football team Rebel FC, which was managed by former England player Rio Ferdinand.     9. Joshua Bradley Zerkaa - Gaming  Joshua also known as Josh Zerker uplods videos ranging from football game FIFA to Minefield.  Since rising to fame he has also brought out a clothing line called ZRK London, selling T-shirts, hoodies and caps. He has earned 3.2 million subscribers and has branches out into videos including 'professional stylist does my ASOS shop'.   The star is in a relationship with fellow lifestyle blogger Freya Nightingale.  10. Colin Furze, colinfurze, - Entertainment Colin has grown his mass of followers on YouTube through his crazy inventions, world records and extraordinary projects.  Some of his most recent inventions included his 'homemade hoverboard' and a giant fireworks pendulum.  He published his first book, 'This Book Isn’t Safe!' in 2017 and has grown a following of 8.4 million.  After leaving school in Stamford, Lincolnshire, at the age of 16 to become a plumber, he has followed his skill of fixing things into a growing social media business.    11. Alastair Aiken, 25, Gaming - Ali-A Alistair Aiken, known as Ali-A on YouTube, is a popular British content creator for Fortnight with 16 million subscribers who like to watch him play Call of Duty while he does a running commentary on the game play. He joined Youtube in 2006.   12. Patricia Bright, Patricia Bright Beauty - Beauty  A Battersea, London, born fashion and beauty influencer who makes videos not only telling her young fans how to style their clothes and do their make up, but also how to control their finances and start a business. Starting Youtube as a hobby in 2010 under the name BritPopPrincess she worked at the investment bank Merrill Lynch as an intern before giving it up to focus on her Youtube, the popular guru has 2.8 million subscribers.  13. The Saccone Jolys, SACCONEJOLYs - Family  Watching their young family of six grow up on screen the Saccone Joly's fans follow along with every pivotal life experience that the family share. From their successes to sorrows, including details of struggles with eating disorders and miscarriage the family gently broach topics, often considered taboo, with their viewers in a safe and relateable way. This year the vlogger father, Jonathan Saccone Joly, 39, from Surrey, who beat famous fathers to be named 'Celebrity Dad of the Year' has revealed he's being plagued by online trolls, who have accused him of abusing his children, resulting in a visit from the police.    In 2011, Jonathan packed in his day job and started life as 'a full time vlogger', and now the couple have over four million followers.  14. Theo Baker, 23 - Football - Theo Baker     With around 800 thousand subscribers Theo has built up a fan base with a steady flow of football related content. From challenge videos to football analysis the  23-year-old from Eastbourne, England, also played for Newhaven, Seaford and Crystal Palace’s development teams as a Midfielder. He started his Youtube channel in 2014.  15. Emmanuel John Brown, 23, - Football - Manny Former banking and finance student turned Youtube personality Manny is based in London with over 1.5 million subscribers, Manny, mainly focuses on Football gaming content. He also plays real life football and was signed to Romford FC in 2017 and now plays for the Sunday league team Under The Radar FC. He started his channel in 2013. His most popular videos are of him competing with others on the pitch despite having started as a dedicated Fifa channel. The Youtuber has spoken out about issues of racism in his videos.  16. Jordan Lipscombe, 21, beauty - Jordan Lipscombe With 1.7 million followers the fashion, beauty and hair guru has shot to notoriety in Youtube relative terms - gaining 100,000 followers in the first six months of starting her channel in 2014.  Jordan first followed her passion for make-up while working on a high-street drug store make-up counter.  She has a no nonsense approach to reviewing products which makes her a sure call for fans looking for an honest opinion  17. Holly Boon - Beauty  Make-up sensation Holly Boon has amassed a following of 675,000 on her YouTube channel.  Holly uploads videos on make-up tutorials, clothing hauls and advice aimed at women.  In 2018, Holly put her makeup tips and tricks to the market with the launch of her cruelty-free line, HNB Cosmetics.     18. Gaz Oakley, 26 - Food - avantgardevegan  The former professional chef went vegan four years ago, joining Youtube to use his culinary knowledge to bring his fans the best in exciting vegan recipes every Sunday. Earlier this year Pan Asian restaurant Wagamama launched a much anticipated vegan dish with vegan chef and YouTube star Gaz Oakley. Oakley collaborated with wagamama executive chef Steve Mangleshot to create the fresh, Japanese inspired bowl named 'the avant-gard'n' with the aim of continuing to make vegan food more interesting - which is the main focus of his channel.  19. Ling Khac Tang, 25, beauty - ling.kt The creator also uses humorous tutorials to create dramatic looks and intricate eye make-up - often posting bizzare make-up and beauty techniques to Instagram. With around 1.5m followers the UK beauty blogger turned Instagram influencer, then Youtuber, creates content such as 'How I got clear skin' and 'how to make skin look good'.  She the L'Oreal Paris team in 2017 after collaborating with the brand. Her motto is body and beauty confidence: 'Anyone can wear makeup and look good, but always be confident, as that’s what makes beauty shine the most'.  20. Amelia Liana Sopher - Lifestyle  YouTube sensation Amelia Liana posts videos on her channel twice a week with the latest make-up hauls, weekend vlogs and her wedding plans following her recent engagement.    She is also contributing beauty editor to Tatler magazine and posts regular snaps of her Pomeranian Duke who also has grown his own following.   21.  Tamara Kalinic Tamara Kalinic - Beauty/Fashion Tamara Kalinic is a 29-year-old blogger who specialises in premium beauty, fashion, and travel. She was raised in Serbia, but she relocated to England where she blogs full time. 22.  Safwan Ahmedmia SuperSaf - Tech Safwan Ahmedmia, better known by his YouTube name SuperSaf, is a British technology reviewer. 23.  Estée Lalonde Estée Lalonde - Lifestyle Estée Lalonde was born in Canada but now lives in London. She creates weekly lifestyle and beauty videos on her YouTube channel. 24.  Sarah Turner theunmumsymum - Parenting Sarah Turner started blogging about the realities of parenting in 2013 and now has two Sunday Times best-selling books. 25. The Ingham Family The Ingham Family - Parenting A British family vlog who live in Leeds and we vlog our lives 'every single day, without fail.' 26. Grace Beverley Grace Beverley - Fitness A plant-based fitness guru, 22, who graduated from Oxford University who documents exercise, fashion and everything in between. 27. Lydia Millen Lydia Elise Millen - Beauty/Fashion Lydia Millen started out doing a fashion blog to help her get through her dissertation in her final year of University. She now has 750k YouTube subscribers. 28. Michael Dapaah Michael Dapaah - Comedy He's an English actor, rapper, and comedian best known for portraying the fictional rapper Big Shaq and the viral song 'Man's Not Hot'. 29. Freddy Cousin-Brown Freddy My Love - Beauty/Fashion Freddy Cousin-Brown is a London-born model, dancer and beauty and lifestyle vlogger. She posts a video every week on her popular YouTube channel. 30. Anna Newton The Anna Edit - Lifestyle  Anna Newton lives in Brighton and has fronted her blog and YouTube channel 'The Anna Edit' since 2010. She has since published a book about organising your lifestyle. 31. Ethan Payne Behzinga - Football He is a a comedic video game commentator on YouTube who featuring games ranging from FIFA to Grand Theft Auto. He is one member of the Sidemen. 32. Thuy Lee xThuyLe - Beauty A London-based beauty vlogger and makeup artist, Thuy Lee posts incredible makeup looks to her 300k strong YouTube subscribers. 33. Simon Hooper father_of_daughters - Parenting An Instagram famous father with four girls, and husband of influencer Clemmie Hooper. They document the trials and tribulations of family life. 34. Anthony Middleton antmiddleton - Adventure He's a former solider who is now an adventurer and presenter, known for being the chief instructor on SAS: Who Dares Wins. 35. Laila Swann Laila Loves - Beauty/Fashion Laila Swann is an English YouTuber and blogger who write about beauty and fashion. 36. Nile Wilson Nile Wilson - Sport Nile Wilson is a British gymnast and an Olympic silver medalist. He runs a YouTube channel where he posts workouts and his daily life. 37. Sam Chapman & Nicola Chapman Haste Pixiwoo - Beauty Starting their YouTube channel over a decade ago, the sisters from Norwich were one of the original makeup tutorial and product review vloggers in the game. 38.  Tobi Brown TBJZL - Football Tobi Brown is a London-born YouTuber who streams gamer videos, specialising in FIFA. He has more than 3million subscribers. 39. Jamie Genevieve - Beauty The Scottish beauty blogger, 25, went from working at the makeup counter in Debenhams to having over a million Instagram followers after posting her every day beauty looks. 40. Josh Pieters - Comedy  He's a comedian with a YouTube channel, who most recently pranked influencers with 'Moon rock' that was actually gravel. 41. Dan Middleton DanTDM - Gaming Dan Middleton is a British YouTuber and professional gamer, who mainly covers Minecraft. 42. Victoria Magrath inthefrow - Lifestyle Victoria Magrath started the blog 2012 during her Fashion PhD and working as a lecturer at the University of Manchester. She has now won multiple awards. 43. Carrie Hope Fletcher Carrie Hope Fletcher - Entertainment Carrie Hope Fletcher is an actress and singer who started a YouTube channel featuring music and vlogs. She has since starred on London's WestEnd. 44. James William Walker Mr JWW - Cars James William is an English YouTuber who owns many different kinds of cars and makes videos about them. 45.  Adnan Ebrahim Car Throttle - Cars A car enthusiast website covering all aspects of love for vehicles. 46. The Michalaks The Michalaks - Lifestyle The Michalaks are a family from Bath who make videos about their every day life. 47. Phil Lester AmazingPhil - Entertainment Phil Lester is best known for sharing weird and wacky videos on his YouTube channel to millions of subscribers. 48. Yasmin Uddin Yammy - Gaming Yammy is a gamer form Leeds who does commentaries on her YouTube channel to two million subscribers. 49. Carly Rowena Carly Rowena - Lifestyle Carly is a personal trainer form the UK, who blogs about fitness, staying healthy and being happy in your won skin. 50. Sam Fane Seen Through Glass - Travel Sam travels the world checking out car culture in every corner of the globe. 51. Shantania Beckford Shantania Beckford - Beauty/Fashion Shantania Beckford is a vlogger who describes herself as being all about hair, makeup and fashion, expressing herself and having fun. 52. Georgia Rankin MakeupJunkieG - Beauty/Fashion Georgia is a 20-year-old makeup vlogger, also known as 'Britain's Smallest Woman' after appearing in a Channel 5 Documentary '30-inches-tall-and-turning-18'. 53. Zoe Sugg Zoella - Lifestyle Zoe Sugg started off writing a blog and went onto YouTube, arguably one of the fastest growing influencers of her time. She now has a book and has worked with many high street fashion brands. 54. Melanie Murphy Melanie Murphy - Beauty/Fashion Melanie grew up in a small village near Dublin. She garners millions of views to her YouTube videos which cover fashion and beauty to sexuality, women's rights and relationships. 55. Lorna Andrews lornaluxe - Fashion Lorna Andrews has a blog sharing outfit photos and style inspiration for what she describes as 'savvy young professionals'. 56. Hannah Witton Hannah Witton - Sex & Relationships Hannah started out as a YouTuber before broadening her reach to being a broadcaster and author. She mainly vlogs about relationships, sex and sexual health and sexual liberation. 57. Rose Ellen Dix & Rosie Spaughton Rose and Rosie - Gaming/Lifestyle Rose and Rosie are two married British YouTubers who release weekly comedic videos. 58.  Lily Pebbles Lily Pebbles - Fashion Lily Pebbles lives in London and is a blogger. She has released a book named the F Word. 59. Louise Pentland Louise Pentland - Lifestyle Louise is an English motherhood, beauty and lifestyle vlogger, blogger, YouTube personality and author. 60. Joe Wicks thebodycoach - Fitness Joe Wicks, better known as 'The Body Coach' specialises in cooking and fitness books. His fitness method uses short intense High Intensity Interval Training workouts 61. Emma Hill Emma Hill - Fashion Emma Hill created her fashion and lifestyle blog in 2008 while working in retail. She now works full time on the successful blog alongside her husband who quit his job to join her. 62. Scott Major Dangthatsalongname - Gaming  Scott Major, 22, formn Scotland, runs a family friendly gaming channel, mainly focusing on Minecraft and Sims. 63. Mark Hoyle LadBaby Parenting Mark Hoyle, best known for his YouTube personality LadBaby, from Nottinghamshire who creates video content about his experiences as a father.  64. Dodie Clarke doddleoddle - Music/Lifestyle Dodie Clarke is an online YouTube sensation and internet singer and songwriter. 65. Shaquille Keith, Dexter Black, Elias Riadi and Danny Lomas PAQ - Fashion PAQ is the leading online destination for men's contemporary fashion and streetwear. 66. Giovanna Fletcher Giovanna Fletcher - Lifestyle Married to Tom Fletcher form McFly, Giovanna is a vlogger and author sharing her everyday life with fans. 67. Megan Jayne Crebba Bodyposipanda - Body Positive Megan, 24, from the UK, blogs all things body positive on her colourful blog, YouTube and Instagram page, 68. Elijah Quashie Chicken Connoisseur - Food Elijah Quashie, also known as The Chicken Connoisseur, is an viral internet celebrity and fried chicken restaurant critic, known for his viral YouTube video series The Pengest Munch. 69. Nellie Robert vintynellie - Beauty/Fashion Nellie Robert is a UK-based is a makeup artist turned beauty influencer. 70. Kaushal Modha Kaushal - Beauty Kaushal Modha posts all things makeup and beauty related on her YouTube page.  71. Brittany Bathgate brittanybathgate - Fashion Brittany Bathgate created a style platform on her blog, which celebrates contemporary British fashion.  72. Emily Norris Emily Norris - Parenting  Emily is a mother-of-three and who started a vlog to record her children's lives growing up and share tips about parenting on YouTube.   73. Alice Naylor-Leyland Mrs Alice - Lifestyle Alice Naylor-Leyland is an English socialite who runs her own blog focusing on fashion, lifestyle and parenthood. She is also a contributing editor to Vogue.   74. Darren, Georgie, Mia, Sienna & Karma Fizz Family Fizz - Lifestyle The family aim to make funny videos to 'make you laugh' by doing crazy challenges, pranks and adventures.   75. Dina Torkia Dina Tokio - Lifestyle Dina Tokio is an Egyptian–English beauty vlogger and blogger who rose to fame for being a successful 'hijabi' woman in social media.   76. Sherlina Nyame - Beauty/Fashion Sherlina Nyame is a London blogger who posts outfit photos about her style, including her impressive trainer collection.   77. Amelia Dimoldenberg Chicken Shop Date - Fashion Amelia Dimoldenberg rose to fame after creating the 'Chicken Shop Date' where she sits down with all the biggest names in UK grime and rap across London.  78. Kofi McCalla The Unknown Vlogs - Fashion Kofi McCalla is a house-hold name in the Hypebeast men's fashion community. So much so that he has received over 80 million views and collaborated with Drake for his 'How much is your outfit?' video series on YouTube.  79. Lizzy Hadfield - Fashion Lizzy Hadfield has worked with jewellery brand Pandora and helped evolve the 'smasual' fashion in her chic wardrobe and online guides on how to pair staple pieces. She has already said she is to opt for 'Fluid Utility' in her autumn wardrobe.  80. Zanna Van Dijk - Fitness Zanna Van Dijk has encouraged more women to use weights after releasing her first fitness book Strong just after becoming a personal trainer. She hosts the #GirlGains BBC Podcast Fit & Fearless and holds the title of the UK's first female global Adidas ambassador.      81. Anastasia Kingsnorth - Lifestyle Anastasia Kingsnorth is a 17-year-old Vlogger who tests out some of the major food trends in 24 hours - from eating only vegan fast food to Tesco meal deals in her fun and chatty style.   82. Chidera Eggerue - Feminism Londoner Chidera Eggerue has helped women learn the art of self-love after releasing her book 'What a Time to be Alone'. From starting a blog at 18 after attending Brit school, she went on to found the #SaggyBoobsMatter and #BlockHimParty social media campaigns. 83. Theo Thomas - Cars/Gaming Theo Thomas aka BlackPanthaa prides himself on 'techy stuff' and streams his own Ferrari adventures in Xbox and Play Station games. Theo breaks down the story-lines, settings and new cars ahead of the game releases. 84. Clemmie Hooper - Parenting Clemmie Hooper, otherwise known as the 'Insta-midwife', delivers babies for the NHS while managing a blog for mothers called Gas And Air. It shares women's birth stories and advice on navigating pregnancy with relationships. 85. Pandora Sykes - Fashion Pandora Sykes is a multi-skilled journalist who co-hosts iTunes number one weekly current affairs and pop-culture podcast The High-Low with best-chum and fellow writer Dolly Alderton. She provides a social commentary across major magazines. 86. Nadiya Hussain - Food After winning the Great British Bake Off four years ago, Nadiya Hussain's cooking career has taken off and landed her a regular BBC slot for her 'Family Favourites' programme. She is also going on tour with her book Finding Your Voice this autumn.  87. Fabulous Hannah - Lifestyle Essex-born Fabulous Hannah is a beauty and fashion blogger and started her YouTube channel as a way to deal with the stress of preparing for exams. 88. Jack Dean - Entertainment Jack Dean packed in his job at a restaurant after the success of his frank, confessional and opinionated YouTube videos made him enough cash - and even attracted guest appearances from Dynamo and Ricky Gervais. 89. Soph Does Nails - Beauty Sophie shared her love for nail art and now has a whopping 946,317-person following and has branched out into all kinds of makeup product reviews. She is not afraid to show her bare face and have 'girl talks'. 90. Caspar Lee Caspar - Entertainment  Caspar Lee started his YouTube channel of pranks at 16 years old and has still set global fans laughing with his relationship mile-stones with Ambar Miraaj and other dares - asking a passenger on the plane to choose what he eats in first class. He counts YouTuber Joe Sugg and Alfie Deyes as close friends.   91. Samira Kazan - Food Oxford graduate Samira Kazan says everyone 'deserves to eat like a king' and shares inspirational meal ideas which incorporate super-foods on her Alpha Foodie blog.  92. Ella Mills - Food Ella Mills went from a blogger to a business-owner after the success of her Deliciously Ella website. She has created her own healthy microwave meals, granola and range of museli bowls.   93. Joel Mcloughlin - Fashion Joel Mcloughlin worked as a stylist for fashion brand Net-a-Porter before investing his energy solely on his Gallucks blog which combines his reflections on everyday pressures and 'getting what you want in life' with visually pleasing pictures of his minimalist and monochrome wardrobe. 94. Sophia Rosemary - Fashion Sophia Rosemary is obsessed with all things vintage and offers girls advice on how to recreate a 1960s or 1970s look. She talks about her experience of being a woman in her early 30s today, how to say no and upholding expectations. 96. Jack Morris doyoutravel - Travel Jack Morris has been travelling around the world since 2012 and has a 2.8 million Instagram following of people who want to a sneak peek of his spectacular travels. He is currently in Bali with girlfriend and capturing the breath-taking views with his series of Canon cameras. 97. Jo Rodgers - Lifestyle Jo Rodgers is from Chicago and shares mesmerising photographs of her European travels while also reminding everyone about London's charm. Jo's shares anecdotes about her family's trips and is a contributing writer for Vogue. 98. Tess Daly - Beauty/Fashion Tess Daly might be an expert at eye-makeup and knowing the best beauty products but she is more determined to break the stigma attached to her spinal muscular atrophy type 2. She speaks openly about her disability which has made her dependent on personal assistants. 99. Chessie King - Lifestyle Chessie King is keen on spreading body-positivity after trying fad diets and weight-loss myths. She shares transformation pictures on Instagram which hope to encourage other girls to feel comfortable in their own skin. 100. Dominique Davis - Lifestyle Dominique Davis might be a mother-of-two but she won the Lifestyle Influence of the Year in 2018. She offers quick guides to a tidy-house and other DIY tips for parents which are on-the-go and trying to juggle the personal and professional. 
