food reviews
{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline   Published:  18:29, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7943779/Should-using-protein-powder-look-benefits-boost-workout.html }
Whether you're planning to work up a sweat in a circuits class, training for a marathon or playing a match with your local Sunday league team, it's crucial to look after your body to get the most out of exercising. Protein has long been lauded as a key ingredient to not only help to build muscle, but repair it too. If you're working out regularly, it's even more essential that your diet contains enough to enable your body to do its job more effectively. Powders containing whey protein are a popular and efficient way of fuelling muscle development and growth - and there's one particular brand many top athletes and regular gym-goers swear by.  Optimum Nutrition's Gold Standard 100% Whey is the best-selling protein powder in the world* - and was the shake of choice for England's rugby squad in Japan last year, where the men's team defeated the All Blacks in epic style and reached the final for the first time in 18 years. Over the past three decades the brand has established itself as a trusted secret weapon for athletes determined to get to the top of their game, and has supercharged two billion recoveries since 1998. So why do so many high profile sportsmen and women choose Optimum Nutrition - and is it right for you? Here's everything you need to know. What makes Optimum Nutrition great for everyone active? There's a common misconception that protein powders are only used by body builders or serious athletes competing at the top level. Some people - women especially - are put off using them for fear it will make them bulk up and look bigger.  But if you're a regular gym-goer, sports player or keen jogger, protein powders are great for nurturing and repairing your muscles after working out. Here's the science bit: after a particularly strenuous session, you may find your muscles are aching the next morning, and this can last for up to a few days. Although food should always be your first choice for consuming the appropriate recovery nutrients, it is not always possible after training due to a lack of desire to eat or the proximity of the kitchen to the gym or track.  Whey protein shakes provide a rapid delivery of protein to your muscles to help repair and rebuild them. As the body does not store protein, consuming high quality protein throughout the day and around exercise is central to providing the muscle with the key elements it needs to optimise post workout recovery.  If you're after short-term recovery, the recommended dosage is 20-30g of powder after exercise.  For longer term recovery, up your intake to regular intervals throughout your day.  This is because during any exercise, you put stress on your muscles which causes the fibres to start breaking down. As they begin to repair themselves, they become stronger and better equipped to handle the strain next time you hit the treadmill or pitch. Protein powders are essentially medicine for your muscles to aid your recovery, helping you to unlock your potential and properly rebuild your body, so that you're ready and able to push even harder next time to achieve your fitness goals. Optimum Nutrition's Gold Standard 100% Whey packs a good punch as it includes 24 grams of protein per serving. It's also conveniently low in the stuff you don't need, like sugars and fat, containing 2 grams and 1.5 grams respectively, and each shake is less than 120 calories when mixed with water. It also doesn't compromise on taste - the powders come in 15 easy to mix flavours, including chocolate, cinnamon bun, hazelnut, banana cream, white chocolate raspberry and French vanilla, so it'll feel more like a post-workout treat than a healthy supplement.  To make your shake, simply mix one rounded scoop in 180 to 240ml of cold water - or milk for a bit of indulgence. Optimum Nutrition's Gold Standard 100% Whey is also reasonably priced at £24.99 for 908 grams (29 servings), meaning it won't break the bank if you're still a bit strapped for cash after Christmas.  Better still, at the moment the brand is so confident in its delicious taste, it is offering to give you your money back if you don't love any of its five hero flavours. So why not give it a go? A squad of well known fans... Optimum Nutrition is loved by professional athletes and fitness influencers, including Shaun Stafford, James Stirling (aka The London Fitness guy), 'Lean with Lily' Lily Sabri, as well as pro-triathlete Lucy Charles' coach (and husband), Reece Barclay. With the Six Nations Championship kicking off this weekend, England Rugby players Henry Slade and Emily Scarratt - who won World Rugby Women's Player of the Year 2019 - will be packing their tub of Optimum Nutrition in their kit bags for the tournament. Emily said the Gold Standard chocolate hazelnut flavour is the current favourite among the squad. 'The day before the game I will always have an Optimum Nutrition protein shake made with milk after the Captains Run to support muscle repair,' she said. 'I find it much easier to take on liquids than eat immediately after the game, so my recovery process starts with a whey protein shake made with milk ideally, but sometimes water.' Men's Back Henry Slade said he and the rest of the team also opt for a Optimum Nutrition Gold Standard Whey protein shake after a match before tucking into a lasagne. In celebration of the Six Nations, Optimum Nutrition is currently offering a limited edition England Rugby Shaker when you purchase a Gold Standard 100% Whey England Rugby Pack. Watch how Emily Scarratt and Henry Slade from England Rugby recover after training here... For more details visit the Optimum Nutrition website. Buy Optimum Nutrition's Gold Standard 100% Whey (24g) and get a free shaker. Optimum Nutrition Gold Standard 100% Whey Protein shakes boast thousands of positive reviews on Amazon. Here's what some happy customers had to say... *Source: Euromonitor International Limited; Consumer Health 2019 edition, Sports Protein Powder category, percentage retail value share, 2018 data.  
