food reviews
{ By Kevin Kayhart For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:02, 8 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7439355/Jon-Hamm-Annette-Bening-Adam-Driver-garner-rave-reviews-thriller-film-Report-TIFF.html }
The American docudrama The Report, which showcases the investigation into the CIA's use of torture following the September 11th attacks in 2001, has been getting rave reviews since the Sundance Film Festival. And now, with the premiere date about two months away, the film is getting another word-of-mouth boost by way of the Toronto International Film Festival.  This latest round of praise comes as Adam Driver, Annette Bening and Jon Hamm were among the cast on hand to field questions from journalists about the project. Looking studiously dapper in a beige sweater over a black shirt and black pants, Hamm was all smiles as he meticulously talked about the plot and his character, Denis McDonough, the 26th White House Chief Of Staff who started at the beginning of President Barack Obama's second term. Benning, who looked classy and confident as she sat to Hamm's left in all-black, portrays longtime California Senator Dianne Feinstein.   But the crux of the story follows the character of Driver, who looked casual-cool as he sat on the the stage in a black ensemble. He plays driven Senate staffer Daniel J. Jones, a member of the US Select Committee On Intelligence who heads up a Senate investigative report into the CIA's used of enhanced interrogation techniques, post 9/11. The political-thriller was written and directed by Scott Burns, who's best known for writing The Bourne Ultimatum (2007), The Informant! (2009) and Contagion (2011).  Buzz behind The Report started when it made its debut at Sundance in January, which included strong reviews and Oscar talk.  After the initial screening, Variety reported Owen Gleiberman described it as 'a large-scale saga of corruption, justice, and overwhelming relevance that's at once gripping and eye-opening, even if you're the sort of news junkie who thinks they already know the story.' Following its premiere at the TIFF this weekend, USA Today ranked it as the second best film at the festival, so far. 'While the supporting cast is full of standouts, from Bening to Jon Hamm, Driver and his character's dogged pursuit of the truth get all A’s on the Report card,' reporter Brian Truitt said. The Report hits theaters in the US November 15, 2019.   
