food reviews
{ By Sarah Bridge for The Mail on Sunday    Published:  00:41, 8 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7439489/Appy-meal-restaurant-order-pay-phone-never-talk-waiter.html }
It's the ultimate dining experience for tech-savvy millennials who are happier engaging with their smartphones than talking to a waiter. Swedish chain Pinchos is considering opening one of its tapas restaurants in Britain as early as next year – allowing diners to book a table, order their food and pay their bill all from their phone app. The system means customers don't even have to talk to staff and can make a quick exit rather than waiting for the bill to arrive. Pinchos' Hakan Tiderman told The Mail on Sunday: 'We've already been researching the UK market and where to open first – London is great but very competitive and so we might start in another big city in the UK instead. But we absolutely want to be in the UK within a year – it would be a real feather in our cap.' Apps from chains such as Pizza Express, Wetherspoons, McDonald's and technology company Quandoo – which works with restaurants such as Côte – are proving increasingly popular because they allow customers to pre-order food and drinks before even arriving at the restaurant. Pinchos, with a turnover of £84 million, describes itself as 'an app company with restaurants, rather than a restaurant company with an app'. It was founded in Gothenburg in 2012, when it also launched its app, and now has 67 restaurants decked out in a flamboyant, circus-style theme. It serves small plates from cuisines across the world, such as burgers, dumplings and paella. More than 2.5 million people in Sweden have downloaded the Pinchos app – a quarter of the country's population. The casual dining sector in the UK has been left reeling by tough competition and economic uncertainty which has seen many restaurants such as Jamie's Italian close their doors. Some in the industry see the use of digital technology as a way to boost trade by making ordering and paying as 'frictionless' as possible, particularly for millennials who are more comfortable with technology than with placing orders in person. 'It's just not in their DNA,' said Pierpaolo Zollo, Quandoo's vice president for business development. 'It's not that they're shy, they're just more comfortable interacting this way and they want things to be immediate.' More than 1.1 million people have already downloaded the Pizza Express app, which launched last year and allows people to pay for their meal on their phones at the table without having to ask a waiter for the bill.  Also taking the sector by storm is the app from the Wetherspoon pub chain, which has more than 620,000 reviews on iTunes and allows people to order food and drinks to be delivered to their table. Zollo said he's seen a huge increase in people wanting to use the Quandoo app. 'It takes an average of 12 minutes to get the bill and pay at the end of the meal and so if you can take control of that it's great for the experience.' This frees up waiting staff to welcome diners, clear tables and focus on customer experience, he said. 
