food reviews
{ By Glen Owen and Harry Cole For The Mail On Sunday and Luke Andrews For Mailonline   Published:  21:17, 7 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7439125/Amber-Rudd-resigns-Cabinet-quits-Tory-party-hits-Boris-Johnsons-purge.html }
Cabinet Minister Amber Rudd launched a blistering attack on Boris Johnson's 'aggressive and dangerous' approach to Brexit last night as she resigned from the Tory Party. The staunch Remainer warned that the Prime Minister's tactics of putting parliament against the people will lead to violence on the streets. In a devastating parting salvo, the Pensions Secretary — one of only a handful of Remain supporting Ministers in Mr Johnson's Cabinet — said she thought there was 'no evidence' that Mr Johnson was trying to strike a deal with Brussels. Announcing that she would be standing as an independent Conservative in her Hastings and Rye constituency, Ms Rudd attacked the Prime Minister's decision to deselect 21 Tory rebels who voted last week to block a No Deal Brexit as an 'assault on decency and democracy'. Her decision, as one of the Prime Ministers closest personal friends, comes as yet another hammer-blow to the prime minister after his brother Jo Johnson quit the government on Thursday. Ms Rudd had been criticised by her former Remain allies after pivoting to sign up to Mr Johnson's Cabinet and backing his pledge to leave the EU 'do or die' and had been under huge pressure over her 'pivot.'   This comes as the Prime Minister was seen with his girlfriend Carrie Symonds, 31, leaving Scotland yesterday after his visit to the Queen at Balmoral.  In a fiery interview with The Sunday Times, Amber Rudd said she 'no longer believes leaving with a deal is the government's main objective'. 'He's so focused on one element, preparing for No Deal, he's not engaging enough with the need to get a deal. 'My mother used to say: 'Judge a man by what he does and not by what he says.' I am concerned that he's not doing enough to make true what he says is his priority.' She also labelled his decision to eject 21 MPs from the Conservative party an 'act of political vandalism' and accused him of 'unwisely' putting parliament against the people. Describing the decision to remove the whip from MPs as an 'assault on decency and democracy', she said: 'Number 10 wants the 21 not to be there as MPs because they need those seats to be occupied by people who support their No Deal plan.' She added he 'should not be putting parliament against the people'. 'The constant escalation of the combat between parliament and the people leading to protests is really unwise and will lead to dangerous outcomes. I have said this to him and I have been ignored.'  Last night Tory sources said Ms Rudd's brother Roland, a multimillionaire lobbyist who was a leading figure in the Remain campaign, had exerted 'huge amounts of pressure on his sister to walk, it was coming from all sides, her family and the MPs'.  In her resignation letter to the Prime Minister, Ms Rudd said: 'I no longer believe leaving with a deal is the Government's main objective. The Government is expending a lot of energy to prepare for no deal, but I have not seen the same level of intensity go into talks with the European Union. 'I must also address the assault on decency and democracy that took place last week when you sacked 21 loyal One Nation Conservatives. This short-sighted culling of my colleagues has stripped the Party of broadminded and dedicated Conservative MPs. I cannot support this act of political vandalism'. Therese Coffey's appointment as Work and Pensions Secretary is the culmination of more than four years' ministerial experience under three prime ministers. The Conservative MP for Suffolk Coastal has managed to stay in government while colleagues have resigned or been sacked during the turbulent Brexit years. First elected to Parliament in 2010, she has amassed experienced as a minister, select committee member and government whip, while maintaining a relatively low profile in the British press. Her gradual rise to Cabinet was interrupted in May last year after a serious infection put her in hospital for a month. She had to be temporarily replaced as a junior environment minister while she recovered. After backing Remain in the 2016 referendum, she later voted in favour of former prime minister Theresa May's failed Withdrawal Ggreement. Writing on her website earlier this month, Dr Coffey outlined her belief in now honouring the referendum result. She said: 'I hope that progress can be made on securing a future agreement with the EU for a smooth exit but, as I have long argued and voted for, being clear that we will leave without a deal if necessary, we must respect the 2016 referendum result.' Following Mrs May's resignation, Dr Coffey backed Boris Johnson's Tory leadership bid, saying he had 'the mojo to make Brexit happen and he can reach out to many parts of the country to deliver a better, brighter Britain'. After serving as an assistant whip for almost a year, she was appointed deputy leader of the House of Commons under then prime minister David Cameron in May 2015. A year later, in July 2016, she was made a parliamentary under-secretary at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, and served under Mrs May's leadership for three years. She was promoted to minister of state level in the same department when Mr Johnson took over the reins as Prime Minister in July. Dr Coffey's ministerial career was put on hold in May last year after an ear infection spread to the left side of her brain and started to affect her memory. She told the East Anglian Daily Times that she underwent an emergency operation after the infection went 'disastrously wrong'. As an MP she has campaigned locally on stopping the A14 toll, improving the NHS and for better broadband. Her priorities cover agriculture, rail improvements, improving skills and education, Felixstowe Port, preventing coastal erosion and managing the impact of the construction of the Sizewell C nuclear power station. In Parliament, she served on the Culture, Media and Sport Committee before she was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary to Michael Fallon, then Minister for Business and Energy. She has also sat on the Environmental Audit Committee. In August last year, she faced a Twitter backlash after praising the controversial weedkiller Roundup. The product featured in a landmark legal case in the US which saw chemical giant Monsanto ordered to pay millions in damages to a man who claimed its weedkillers contained cancer-causing chemicals. In March, Dr Coffey drew attention by weaving references to '90s pop group S Club 7 in to a speech in Parliament. Raised in the North West, Dr Coffey graduated from University College London with a PhD in chemistry. After qualifying as a chartered management accountant, she became finance director for a UK subsidiary of Mars and also worked at the BBC. Her interests include football, gardening, music, especially the band Muse, and she is a member of the Campaign for Real Ale (Camra).  Last night a furious No 10 source said: 'As the polls show, the voters are quite happy for the PM to get rid of people who don't want us to sort out Brexit. There are plenty of talented younger MPs to replace any deadwood.' Mr Johnson has been accused of planning to set the EU 'on fire' as the only way to keep his grip on power and hit next month's Brexit deadline. Amid fevered speculation in Whitehall that the Prime Minister could be on the brink of quitting, his advisers are this weekend plotting to thwart those MPs who voted last week to force Mr Johnson to seek a Brexit extension. One plan is to be so disruptive to the EU that Brussels is obliged to eject us – while a second is to act on new legal advice from a senior QC which No 10 sources say gives them the authority to simply ignore the Commons order. Mr Johnson has said he would 'die in a ditch' rather than obey the MPs, making his resignation seem inevitable if no alternative can be found, unless he breaks the law by simply ignoring the will of MPs. Many of Mr Johnson's closest allies believe the battle for Brexit will end up being decided in the Supreme Court. Senior civil servants started making preparations on Friday for Mr Johnson to leave Downing Street as early as tomorrow – giving Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn the chance to form a rival administration. But No 10 sources insist that Mr Johnson's immediate resignation is not under consideration. The Prime Minister will tomorrow make a second attempt to try to break the deadlock by asking the Commons to back a General Election on October 15. But Labour's opposition to a pre-Brexit poll means he is likely to fail, and one option being considered in Downing Street is for Mr Johnson to trigger a vote of no confidence in himself in order to get an Election. Under the new 'kick us out strategy', if Brussels fails to strike an acceptable deal the UK Government will use legal chicanery to sabotage the EU from within. However, last night a senior source close to chief negotiator Michel Barnier described the plan as 'desperate', while another likened Mr Johnson to 'the drunk at the party' and accused him of 'trying to get thrown out by setting the whole house on fire'. Amber Rudd's departure from the Cabinet marks the end of a whirlwind three years at the heart of government for a woman once touted as a future prime minister. The Hastings and Rye MP was appointed home secretary on July 13 2016 after showing herself to be a staunch supporter during Theresa May's leadership campaign. On her watch she faced the Westminster Bridge attack, Manchester Arena attack, and the poisoning of the Skripals in Salisbury, but was sacked in the wake of the Windrush scandal in April 2018. The fall-out from the controversial crackdown on illegal migrants found that at least 60 UK citizens had been wrongly deported to the Caribbean. However, an official probe in May last year cleared Ms Rudd of wrongdoing, finding she had been given the wrong advice on the existence of deportation targets by civil servants. After just six months on the backbenches, she was back in Theresa May's Cabinet as Work and Pensions Secretary after Esther McVey threw in the towel over the draft Brexit deal. Despite being a vocal Remain campaigner and a critic of Boris Johnson, the new Prime Minister re-appointed her as Work and Pensions Secretary in his first Cabinet. She famously said of Mr Johnson during a television debate: 'Boris is the life and soul of the party, but he is not the man you want driving you home at the end of the evening.' Perhaps it was her concern for women's welfare that prompted Mr Johnson to reappoint her to the role of Minister for Women and Equalities, a role she held for four months under Mrs May. In her resignation letter, she criticised the 'culling' of 21 senior Tory rebels who voted against the Government this week. She wrote: 'Britain's body politic is under attack from both sides of the ideological debate. I will now play whatever role I can to help return it to a better place.' Ms Rudd went into politics in her 40s, after a career as an investment banker, venture capitalist and financial journalist, to 'get a grip on her life'. She was referred to as 'the silver spoon' in the restaurant reviews of the late AA Gill, to whom she was married for five years and with whom she has a son and a daughter. A former Cheltenham Ladies' College pupil and Edinburgh University history graduate, she was given a role as an extra in Four Weddings And A Funeral by director Richard Curtis, who said he hired Ms Rudd because 'she knew a lot of dukes and earls'. Former prime minister David Cameron also took a shine to her, placing her on his controversial A-list of candidates, and she took Hastings and Rye from Labour in 2010. The 55-year-old rose rapidly through the ranks, promoted to parliamentary private secretary to then-chancellor George Osborne two years later. A job as junior energy minister came in 2014, and she entered Cabinet as secretary of state for energy and climate change in 2015. Her rise was so swift, some political commentators had her marked up as a potential successor to Mr Cameron. Following her resignation, Ms Rudd told the Sunday Times she would stand in Hastings and Rye in the next election as an independent conservative. Ms Rudd might have a fight on her hands - in the 2017 general election she saw her majority reduced to just 346.  Under the disruption strategy, Mr Johnson's allies believe that, by refusing to appoint a UK Commissioner to Brussels beyond the end of October, from the start of November the EU will 'no longer be legally constituted' – unless they vote to reduce the number of member countries to 27. This process would then be vetoed by the UK, which his allies think the EU 'cannot accommodate' and would therefore kick the UK out. After a torrid week of high drama for the Prime Minister, in other developments: On Friday evening Mr Cummings warned Government special advisers 'we have a different interpretation of the legislation' barring a No Deal Brexit, going even further than the Mr Johnson, who said on Friday that the Bill only obliged the Government to delay our EU departure 'in theory'. The source said that, while Mr Corbyn was 'hiding' from an Election, Downing Street and Conservative Campaign HQ were 'ramping up' preparations for a vote. Downing Street has begun official negotiations with executives from the BBC, ITV and Sky over live TV electoral events, including a head-to-head between Mr Johnson and Mr Corbyn. The source added that Brussels would only grant the UK a Brexit extension if the UK engaged in 'sincere co-operation' – which is not the plan. 'If we engage in obstructive behaviour it would lead to the undermining of EU interests and would leave them questioning the UK's membership', the source said. Lib Dem MEP Luisa Porritt said: 'Trying to get thrown out by setting the whole house on fire is inconsistent with the Government's stated aim, which is to negotiate a deal. Boris Johnson increasingly resembles the drunk at the party. 'His reckless threats risk undermining future trade talks before they have even begun.' However, the Government source added: 'Nobody should be in any doubt that we will leave on October 31.' In her letter to Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Amber Rudd said she was resigning with 'great sadness', but that she no longer believes getting a deal from the EU is the Government's main objective. The full letter said: 'It is with great sadness that I am resigning as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and Minister for Women and Equalities. 'It has been an honour to serve in a department that supports millions of people and can be such a force for good. I would like to pay tribute to the thousands of people who work for the DWP across the country. They are committed public servants and I am proud of the work that we have done together over the last 10 months to create a more compassionate welfare system. 'I would also like to thank you and the Chancellor of the Exchequer for your support in the recent Spending Review. I am so pleased that you committed to spend millions more supporting the most vulnerable in society, and I hope that the Government will stay committed to going further at the next fiscal event, building on the work the department has done. 'This has been a difficult decision. I joined your Cabinet in good faith; accepting that 'no deal' had to be on the table, because it was the means by which we would have the best chance of achieving a new deal to leave on October 31. 'However, I no longer believe leaving with a deal is the Government's main objective. 'The Government is expending a lot of energy to prepare for 'no deal' but I have not seen the same level of intensity go into our talks with the European Union, who have asked us to present alternative arrangements to the Irish backstop. 'The updates I have been grateful to receive from your office have not, regretfully, provided me with the reassurances I sought.  'I must also address the assault on decency and democracy that took place last week when you sacked 21 talented, loyal One Nation Conservatives. 'This short-sighted culling of my colleagues has stripped the party of broad-minded and dedicated Conservative MPs I cannot support this act of political vandalism. 'Therefore, it is with regret that I am also surrendering the Conservative whip. 'Britain's body politic is under attack from both sides of the ideological debate. I will now play whatever role I can to help return it to a better place. 'I have been lucky to have had extraordinary support from my Conservative Association since I was adopted as their candidate in 2006. Three times they helped elect me as their MP, keeping Labour at bay through nail-biting campaigns. 'I remain a proud conservative and will continue to champion the values of fairness and compassion, and to support my constituents of Hastings and Rye. 'Yours Sincerely, 'Amber Rudd.'  
