food reviews
{ By Kate Durocher For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:52, 6 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7437053/Kim-Kardashian-sends-boxes-new-SKIMS-shape-wear-says-shes-never-better-response.html }
Kim Kardashian knows fashion and beauty like the back of her hand. Which is why already, ahead of its' launch, her new shape wear line is shaping up to be a hit. On Friday, the reality star, 38, revealed via Instagram that boxes of her SKIMS product have been received by her friends and family and that she's 'never had a better response.'  Sharing her news, Kim posted a promo shot of the line where she's seen standing in the middle of a group of diverse women wearing a tan SKIMS leotard. With women of all shapes, sizes and colors around her, the photograph highlights how Kardashian's product is for every woman. Along with the photograph, Kanye West's wife added a caption where she reveals the initial reactions she's gotten so far on the line, ahead of its' Saturday release.  'So my friends and family are starting to get the @skims press boxes and I’ve never had a better response from everyone loving and feeling the product and this makes me so happy!' she wrote. Kim continued saying, 'I know shape wear better than anyone! I’ve been cutting and fitting and sewing my own versions of what I always wanted my shape wear to be and now everyone can have it too!' The beauty also re-posted an endless stream of Instagram Stories initially shared by those who spent their day trying out Kim's product. 'Beyond excited!!!' wrote Kris Jenner as she panned her camera over the gift boxes. Jenner also opened up an informational pamphlet in the video which shows each of the different SKIMS items nicely laid out and with descriptions for each. 'Kim the range of colors!!! Wow I'm so impressed!!' Kris added in a second post as she pulled out each of the varying shape wear items.  SKIMS will cost $62 and all sizes from XXS-5XL are offered, and in 9 colors. The line originally launched under Kimono, came under fire for cultural appropriation of the traditional Japanese garment.  Kim told WSJ Magazine that the reaction was something she didn't expect, and that her intentions were 'innocent.'  'You would think we would have obviously thought it through a little bit deeper,' she told the outlet. 'I’m the first person to say, "Okay, of course, I can’t believe we didn’t think of this." I obviously had really innocent intentions. But let’s listen. And I want to really listen. And I want to really take it all in.'  Prior to her public announcement of the line, Kim explained why she fell in love with the original name. 'I heard it, and it instantly clicked with me,' she said. 'And I think ono means "one." The Kim part I thought was, like, clever.  As a response to the outcry, she issued a statement to the New York Times asserting her 'deep respect for the significance of the kimono in Japanese culture.' The brand also recently announced that Alice Marie Johnson, who Kim helped free from jail a year ago, is a model for the new shapewear.              
