food reviews
{ By Adam Mccleery For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:48, 6 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7434559/Car-manufacturer-spruiks-visit-Peter-Dutton-customers-threaten-boycott.html }
A car manufacturer's new advertisement touting a visit from 'The Baddest MP' Peter Dutton has drawn mixed reviews online.  SCD American Vehicles in Brisbane shared the video on its Facebook page showing Mr Dutton visiting the business and speaking with staff before touring the workshop.  As the video plays, with a song from rapper DMX over the top, Mr Dutton is seen being shown around the workshop, meeting the workers and sitting in on a boardroom meeting.  'Thanks for the official visit Peter Dutton. Looking forward to creating more jobs in your electorate!' the post reads.  However the reaction to the video was far from positive with a number of Facebook users claiming the business has cost itself customers. 'That was an exceptionally bad move. By all means, go to the electorate, I don't care. But I can assure you, your post cost you customers,' one angry user wrote.  'Gross. Might as well have gone with Pauline bloody Hanson,' another wrote.  'I won't be visiting you. The stench from Peter Dutton will outlast religion,' a third replied.  However not all the feedback was negative.  'Brilliant guys. Well done! That's how you market even what would normally be a boring corporate video,' one Facebook user replied.  'Awesome vid guys well done!' another added.  SCD American Vehicles joint owner Eddie Kocwa told Daily Mail Australia the negative comments were 'disgusting' and  didn't represent the wider feedback they receive.  'We've had 700 vehicles and not one upset customer,' Mr Kocwa said.  Among other things, the business specialises in converting American made cars into right hand drive for Australian roads.  'Every vehicle we work on also creates a job for at least four weeks, we create jobs and also export overseas,' Mr Kocwa said.  'We advertise to our base, you can try and put something nice out but the reality is half the people will always be unhappy.'   He said to have people savage them for one video despite him and his partner building the business from scratch with a strong emphasis on community support was disappointing.  However he said the vocal minority was not a relevant indication of the feedback he receives from his current customers.   Mr Kocwa said they invited Mr Dutton down as their local member and with hopes he could help them work with the Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Cities and Regional Development. 
