{ By Kate Thomas for MailOnline   Published:  09:30, 5 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7430377/Lana-Del-Rey-celebrates-new-album-earning-rave-reviews.html }
Her fifth major studio album, Norman F**king Rockwell, was released on August 30. And Lana Del Rey was enjoying a well deserved night out on Wednesday, celebrating after receiving rave reviews from critics across the board for her latest melancholic and melodic offering. The 34-year-old singer looked lovely in a pair of denim hot pants and a loose cream blouse as she headed out in California. She embraced comfort in a pair of sneakers and casual shorts, carrying her essentials in a black bag. The songwriting queen wore her brunette locks pinned back from her face with a thin tortoiseshell hairband. Lana looked like a woman on a mission, grabbing a hot drink to go as she headed out for the night. The singer had every reason to smile since her new album has been a major return to form, earning high praise across the board and garnering a positive response from fans. Produced by Jack Antonoff, who also teamed up with Taylor Swift on her new album Lover, has scored a solid 88 percent on Metacritic and 98 percent from Google users.  Pitchfork named it the Best New Music, with Jenn Pelly writing: 'On her elegant and complex fifth album, Lana Del Rey sings exquisitely of freedom and transformation and the wreckage of being alive. It establishes her as one of America’s greatest living songwriter'. NME claim the record is 'nothing short of stunning', while Rolling Stone hailed the 11-track offering as 'even more massive and majestic than everyone hoped it would be... a tour of sordid American dreams'. 'Increasingly, for an artist who has made a career out of cinematic mood-creation, Del Rey’s lyrics can stop you in your tracks', The Guardian writes. Tom Breihan for Stereogum called the dreamy collection of nostalgia-tinged tracks 'a fond look back at the world we just wrecked... yoga music for the apocalypse'. Norman F**king Rockwell - named after the 20th century author and illustrator known for his commentary on American culture - is expected to debut at number one in the UK this week.  
