food reviews
{ By Shive Prema For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:27, 5 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7429643/Aussie-actors-Eliza-Scanlen-Ben-Mendelsohn-hit-red-carpet-Babyteeth-Venice.html }
Australian film Babyteeth has been getting rave reviews since premiering at the Venice Film Festival on Wednesday.  And homegrown actors Eliza Scanlen and Ben Mendelsohn looked very proud when they hit the red carpet ahead of the film's first screening.   Former Home and Away star Eliza plays the film's protagonist, a sick teenager named Milla, while Emmy winner Ben plays her strict father Henry.  Eliza tread the line between elegant and edgy in a floor length gown that featured a bold rose and lightning bolt print.  The roses on her dress were accentuated by chunky embroidery on the stems, which added texture to the frock.  The 20-year-old actress was still sporting her short pixie haircut, similar to her character in the film, who cuts off her hair to defy her parents.  Meanwhile, Ben looked dapper in a classic black tuxedo with some very shiny shoes.  The Star Wars: Rogue One star wore a blazer that featured subtle diamond patterning and a ring on his pinky finger, which set his outfit apart.  He appeared to channel his inner Zoolander on the red carpet, as posed for cameras with a furrowed brow and slight 'Blue Steel' pout.   Meanwhile, the film's Australian director Shannon Murphy put on a very leggy display in a thigh-length dress and a pair of black and silver heels.  Her frilly frock wrapped over one shoulder and faded from a light grey down to a pale pink from top to bottom.  The actress-turned-director wore her hair in a fringe with a ponytail swept over her right shoulder. Eliza also posed for some photos with British actor Toby Wallace, who plays her romantic interest in the film.  Babyteeth, adapted from the play of the same name, tells the story of sick teenager Milla, who falls in love with a drug dealer Toby to the disapproval of her parents.  While Ben plays Milla's father in the film, fellow Australian actor Essie Davis plays her mother but she was not seen at the premiere.  It is the first time Ben has returned to work in Australia in over nine years, having scored a number of Hollywood roles, including an Emmy-winning role in Bloodline.  Eliza is also making moves in LA and is set to star in coming-of-age period drama Little Women later this year.          
