{ By Andrew Bullock For Mailonline   Published:  14:55, 4 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7427259/It-Chapter-Two-branded-laborious-THREE-HOUR-run-time.html }
Ahead of the release of It: Chapter Two, critics have given the horror sequel lukewarm reviews - in some cases only one or two stars. The consensus from reviewers is that the film is unnecessarily long (coming in at 2 hours 50 minutes) as the second-half of Stephen King's classic novel is transferred to the big screen. The plot picks up 27 years after the children of American town Derry 'defeat' bloodthirsty clown Pennywise. Now grown, they learn that Pennywise has resurfaced and is killing again - and it's up to them to return and finish him off for good. Despite a strong and disturbing opening and several creepy moments in which the clown lurks beneath bleachers, on river banks and in a fun house, things go downhill when he starts morphing into a giant, spider-like version of himself for the grand finale. Pennywise [played by Bill Skarsgård] is also replaced by numerous demonic creatures and zombified corpses for many of the frightening sequences. The Guardian gave the film a less-than-impressive two stars, stating that: 'The scenes don’t develop or accumulate anything within a story arc and it feels as if the movie is jumping the shark and jumping back again, increasingly spending more and more time the wrong side of the shark and finally staying there!' The film somehow manages to keep going downhill from there [and] generates an average of one fright per hour, not very much bang for your buck  – Tara Brady, Irish Times The movie’s special effects have a doughy, rough clumsiness that’s both charming and shoddy – K Austin Collins, Vanity Fair Despite a strong and disturbing opening and several creepy moments, things go downhill and become all too fantastical - with OTT Native American rituals and giant incarnations of Pennywise running riot – Andrew Bullock, MailOnline It feels as if the movie is jumping the shark and jumping back again, increasingly spending more and more time the wrong side of the shark and finally staying there – Peter Bradshaw, The Guardian Director Andy Muschietti dreams of releasing a four hour cut. He must be mad. The film’s already too long – Charlotte O'Sullivan, Evening Standard   Topping this is the Irish Times' write up, which asks 'where did all the fun go?' 'What could possibly go wrong? Absolutely everything, as it happens,' writes Tara Brady. 'By the time the Losers reassemble for an appallingly staged sequence in a Chinese restaurant, It: Chapter Two has already squandered any and all goodwill amassed by its predecessor.'  She adds: 'The film somehow manages to keep going downhill from there [and] generates an average of one fright per hour, not very much bang for your buck.' Vanity Fair's K Austin Collins writes: 'Despite a starry cast led by Jessica Chastain, Bill Hader, and James McAvoy, the sequel to 2017’s Stephen King blockbuster is graceless and overly long. 'But the real problem, the real catch, is that the hijinks themselves, while spooky, feel larely out of touch and beside the point. The movie’s special effects have a doughy, rough clumsiness that’s both charming and shoddy.' Metro writes: 'A film adaptation shouldn’t need to rely on audiences having seen the original work it is based on to fully understand what’s happening on screen. Sadly for Chapter Two, another edit could have helped this feel tighter and ensured that Pennywise’s ultimate defeat to the Losers remained a win for audiences.' The Independent's Clarisse Loughrey writes: 'While the director does his very best with the material, there’s no escaping how egregiously bloated this film feels. '[It's] horror created in the blockbuster mould. For all its terrors, the film is equally concerned with its A-list stars, its venerable literary origins, its need to provide light entertainment, and its CGI-laden climactic showdown. That would explain why the film is nearly three hours long. 'It’s an admirable attempt, and there’s a lot of artistry on show here, but there’s no escaping how truly unwieldy the final product is.'  In stark contrast, Empire lavished five stars on the film, declaring that it's 'glorious to see this stuff envisioned on such a huge and self-assured scale, a joy to have a film of this size trading in this sort of genre carnage with such uncompromising and unapologetic style'. Empire also heaped praise onto Skarsgård, saying 'this is Heath Ledger-levels of character ownership'. The Evening Standard's Charlotte O'Sullivan gives the film somewhat of a break, writing: 'It: Chapter Two isn’t better than Chapter One. It’s certainly not scarier. Here’s the thing, though: when it counts, it’s every bit as thrilling. A bold, fitfully stylish, frequently shocking film that somehow does justice to King’s mad, and very hard to pin down, novel.' However, she adds: 'As for the CGI, long-tongued, leprous zombies, they get tedious really quickly. Director Andy Muschietti dreams of releasing a four hour cut. He must be mad. The film’s already too long.' 
