food reviews
{ By Hayley Coyle and Ted Thornhill, Mailonline Travel Editor   Published:  11:43, 4 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/travel_news/article-7378611/The-one-star-TripAdvisor-reviews-worlds-sights-Stonehenge-Grand-Canyon.html }
There's just no pleasing some people, as these brilliantly scathing one-star TripAdvisor reviews show. The Grand Canyon? Meh. Stonehenge? Not interesting. Buckingham Palace? An overrated council house. The world's top attractions, it would seem, must do better...   Eiffel Tower - 'doesn't do anything' The Eiffel Tower is probably France's most famous landmark - but we've found two tourists who weren't overly impressed with it.  KaushikKapoor from Mumbai was 'disappointed' by the height of the 1,063ft monument and said that the queue to get in was longer than the tower itself.  Another tourist, 'NadimKobeissi', called it a 'stupid tower' that 'doesn't do anything'. They also moaned that it was full of 'loud tourists'.  Another gripe from NadimKobeissi centred on the food - or a perceived lack of it: 'No steak. No cheese. Nothing.' This reviewer then signed off with: 'Just a big tower. I want a cool tower not this tower.' Buckingham Palace - 'overrated council house'  The Queen's London residence is one of the capital's must-sees - with the daily Changing of the Guard at 11am one of the highlights. But 'OxfordSandyandBlack' from Brecon in Wales didn't agree and suggested that the famous property - 'a knackered council house' - should be redeveloped. They said: 'Hampton Court is far better and a much better historic example... this knackered old council house would be better turned into affordable housing.' Another visitor, Flowertrellis from Minnesota, described Buckingham Palace as 'underwhelming' and added: 'Honestly, I stood around for an hour watching the changing of the guards. 'Big waste of time, really. I keep thinking there was going to be a grand finale or something.  'Nothing. Very over-rated and thankfully it was free.' Stonehenge - 'see stones at your local cemetery instead' Stonehenge in Wiltshire was built between 4500 BC and 1500 BC - and has been baffling academics for decades. No one has a clue why it's there. The enormous slabs of rock used to build it - some weighing 25 tonnes - were transported from the Preseli Hills in Wales, 140 miles away. Most would consider this a jaw-dropping achievement.  But 10jennifer12 from New York 'missed the point'.  She said: 'It's quite possible I'm missing the point, but I don't understand why this is interesting... I am grateful my companion paid for this attraction and not me.  'If you want to see a bunch of old stones piled on top of one another, go to your local cemetery.'   Honestfoodie2018 felt the same way and said: 'Honestly it sounds stupid but it really isn't as impressive as you would think or imagine.  'Total rip-off and the stones are a lot smaller than expected.'  The Grand Canyon - 'meh' The dusty red expanse of the Grand Canyon in Arizona should take your breath away and is the perfect selfie backdrop. But that wasn't quite enough for one tourist - how dare the Grand Canyon not have WiFi?   User '973trisc', from Perth in Australia, said: 'Look, don’t get me wrong, the views were ok.  'However, I just find it unacceptable that in this day and age wifi was non-existent. I had lots of good photos but was unable to Snapchat them.' Another tourist said the canyon was simply 'meh'.    Owster101 from Toronto said: 'Me and my family decided to go on a family trip to the Grand Canyon.  'When we got there after our four-hour car ride we quickly went straight to the viewing area and it was just a pile of dirt and rocks.  'I think you would have more fun at a park with a little sandbox and a couple of rocks and one of those cute cactuses for $5 so save your money and time.' The Pantheon in Rome - 'dull' This ancient former Roman temple, built between 113 and 125 AD, is a building of huge significance - it has had an enormous influence on Western architecture, for starters. However, for 'Martin A', it's simply 'dull'. And 'best viewed from the bar across the piazza with a beer'. The Golden Gate Bridge - 'just a bridge' The Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco isn't just a star attraction within the city but is one of America's most memorable and inspiring structures. It's appeared in countless movies and countless tourist snaps. But 'Samilausanne' from Lausanne was distinctly non-plussed and just couldn't see what the fuss was about. They asked: 'Why is this a top attraction? It's a bridge. Painted red. Nothing else.' Arc de Triomphe - 'nothing special'   The famous Parisian monument, which honours the fallen from the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars, spectacularly failed to impress this visitor. Abhinav S said: 'It's situated in the middle of a roundabout. That's it. 'Nothing special. To reach it you have to cross a wide road with angry motorists honking at you while you cross it. NOT WORTH IT.' The Colosseum - 'watch Gladiator instead' An Australian visitor suggests that watching Russell Crow fighting and shouting in the film Gladiator is preferable to visiting where the action took place - Rome's Colosseum. Paul L said: 'Decided to visit as part of walking tour... was overcrowded... badly organised.  'Queues everywhere and going nowhere and lots of steps... to see basically lumps of stone. 'Tour guides were like barking dogs telling people they couldn't go places etc... I was yelled at a couple of times... couldn't get out of there fast enough.' Palace of Versailles - 'fourth-rate hyped-up non-event'  The website for The Palace of Versailles, a former royal residence just outside Paris with over 700 rooms, says: 'It has been listed as a World Heritage Site for 30 years and is one of the greatest achievements in French 17th century art.'  In contrast, TripAdvisor reviewer 'wenjilondon' said: 'This is one of the worst tourist attractions in France.' The write-up, headlined 'fourth rate', continues: 'You queue for a ticket, about an hour, in total shambles as the ticket queue collides with the toilet queue.   'Once inside, far too overcrowded! The place is a hyped-up non-event with fourth-rate works of art and very shabby decor... the Hall of Mirrors needs a polish.  'Go to the Winter Palace St Petersburg, now that is spectacular. The Kremlin is even better. For a brilliant garden... go to Alcazar.'  Uluru (Ayers Rock), Australia - a 'joke' This Unesco-listed sacred sandstone monolith isn't to everyone's liking.  TripAdvisor user 'Bankhall' described it as a 'joke'. And a 'total waste of time'. Why? Because it's 'just a big stone sticking up in the desert'. Another reviewer, N6062URjonathanw, concurred, saying 'go somewhere else and experience Australia without fences, thousands of tourists and without getting ripped off by expensive entry fees'.   
