food reviews
{ By Jo Tweedy For Mailonline   Published:  11:26, 4 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7426289/Parents-slam-classic-childrens-book-encouraging-eating-disorders.html }
A children's classic by The Worst Witch author Jill Murphy has been branded 'out-dated' and 'body-shaming' by modern parents. A Piece of Cake, which has sold five million copies since its release in 1989, follows the diet of Mrs Large, a grey elephant, who is determined to lose weight and get her family eating healthy food.   Time appears to have caught up with Murphy's tale, with many reviewers on Amazon, and parents on Mumsnet, branding the book's content 'fat-shaming' and 'highly inappropriate' for impressionable young children.  The book's author, one of the UK's most successful children's writers, has refused to be drawn on the furore.  Scroll down for video  In one section of the popular story, the mother elephant, Mrs Large, tells her children 'I'm fat' and despite their protestations that she's 'just right' she reiterates to them that she's not 'cuddly', she's 'fat'.       A Piece of Cake is part of a series of Murphy's books that feature the Large Family but the diet-based theme has inflamed new readers. The most recent reviews of Murphy's story on Amazon have garnered scathing comments.  One said the story was: 'Absolutely disgusting. Diet culture, body shaming, food shaming - highly inappropriate content for young impressionable children to read.' Another agreed, writing: 'How anyone thinks this book is appropriate is beyond me. Terrible content.'  A customer, offering the lowest amount of review stars, said the book was simply not in touch with modern life, penning: 'This book could have been acceptable when released in 1989 but when eating disorders are becoming more common I think it’s a completely inappropriate message to be sending young children. Especially as they are at a really impressionable age it’s message is completely missed.'  In a discussion on Mumsnet, one fan of the book defended its narrative, writing: 'Or you could be a normal person and realise it's a book about elephants and no four-year-old will care.' Fellow children's author Caryl Hart also defended Murphy's book, telling the Times: 'I do agree that A Piece of Cake does give a rather confusing message about body shape, diet and exercise and can understand why some parents feel it is not suitable for young children today. 'I do think it's important to remember, however, that it was published 30 years ago, when attitudes and the language people used were very different'.    
