{ By Alexander Robertson For Mailonline   Published:  12:30, 2 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7418933/Family-holiday-Jamaica-ruined-dirty-five-star-Sandals-resort.html }
A family claim their dream holiday to Jamaica was ruined by a 'dirty' five-star resort and rude staff. Stephen McCrystal claims he and his wife Tracey, 49, his daughter Sarah, 15, and his mother Rhonwen, 81, were met with filthy facilities and horrible food. The 50-year-old said he paid £20,300 for a two-week stay at the Beaches Negril resort in Jamaica after seeing 'gorgeous' photographs of the hotel online. But after booking with a Sandals travel agent and travelling on a nine-hour Virgin Atlantic flight in July 2019, Stephen claimed he was less than impressed by the hotel. The operations manager from Cambridgeshire, who also says he filmed cockroaches scurrying around the hotel, said: 'Our rooms were small and run down. Scroll down for video  'My 81-year-old mother was on the third floor without a lift, despite the fact I had requested for interconnecting rooms months before. 'The bathroom smelled and there was water dripping from the room above into our wardrobe, soaking our clothes.' Stephen also claimed that the restaurants resembled a 'work canteen' as the family was forced to use dirty sun loungers. The butler service also offered by the hotel did not seem up to scratch, as Stephen was offered drinks with a red plastic bucket of ice, rather than a formal bucket. Although the family had packed for the smart dress code of the resort, other guests were allowed to wear what they wanted to dinner, including vests and flip flops. He said: 'The food was very poor and the range was limited. As well as the staff being rude, the chairs and loungers were dirty. 'If you have any hope of getting one within reasonable walking distance to the bar, you would have to reserve one at 6am.' Two days into their 14-day stay at the hotel, Stephen wrote to the manager but claims he was ignored. By day four, Stephen had demanded a meeting with the manager, who refused to move them to another Sandals resort. Stephen now claims he and his family have been offered no compensation for their stay at the resort, and even believes the hotel removed negative reviews online. He said: 'I have experienced far superior resorts in both Tenerife and Turkey at a third of the price we have paid for Beaches Negril. I'll never trust online photos again.'   Sandals told MailOnline that it was looking into the complaint and would contact the family directly.  
