{ By Ruth Sunderland for the Daily Mail    Published:  09:05, 2 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/news/article-7418463/RUTH-SUNDERLAND-Chancellor-Sajid-Javid-loosens-purse-strings.html }
The long-anticipated Spending Review from the Chancellor would normally be the big event of the coming week. This time it is competing with all manner of Brexit drama and could even be torpedoed by rebel MPs seeking to hijack the order paper. But it is still hugely significant, as Sajid Javid and Boris Johnson will use it to woo voters with some generous-sounding pledges, warming us up for the Budget and a general election. Spending reviews, which allocate funding for government departments including health, education and defence, sound dry as dust but they have a major impact on all our lives. So what can we expect? Javid will claim he is ending austerity, though in reality his largesse is unlikely to make up for the hair shirt since the financial crisis. We already know there will be higher spending on education, the health service and law and order, but other less favoured departments will feel the squeeze. Johnson announced a multi-billion pound spending boost for schools on Friday and Javid is expected to honour an NHS spending plan set out by Theresa May in 2018 for a £20.5bn per year increase by the end of five years. The Prime Minister has also promised an extra 20,000 police officers by 2022, which he said will cost just over £1bn. There is likely to be money for social care for the elderly but given the scale of the problem this will probably be a sticking plaster rather than a solution. The Chancellor is setting departmental budgets for one year only, rather than the normal settlement of three years or more, due to uncertainties over Brexit. He has indicated he will stay with the existing fiscal rules, which mean he will try to maintain borrowing below 2pc of national income and to keep debt falling as a percentage of GDP. That leaves him with some leeway - about £15bn or so if we have a deal.  But there has not been time to base the review on new economic forecasts. The situation has deteriorated, reducing his room to manoeuvre if he is going to stick by the rules. Of course the public finances will be affected in a very big way if we leave without a deal. No-one knows by how much: predictions vary from full-on Remainer-geddon to a suggestion from hard line Brexiteer Jacob Rees-Mogg that No Deal would boost the coffers by £80bn a year. The Government's independent fiscal watchdog, the Office for Budget Responsibility, says borrowing would go up by £30bn a year in 'a relatively benign' scenario based on minimal disruption at UK ports, a shortlived recession and limited long-lasting damage to the economy. Thanks to previous restraint, the deficit has reduced dramatically since the financial crisis, notwithstanding recent worse-than-expected figures. The national debt, however, is a gargantuan £1.8trillion. And when we look at government liabilities, including borrowing and public sector pension obligations, they come to just under £4.6trillion. The assets - the road and rail network, government buildings, land, military equipment etc - come to £2trillion, meaning there is a net liability of around £2.6trillion. Those are sobering figures. There are more than enough immediate problems, but in the long term if we are to have sustainable public finances post-Brexit there will have to be a radical overhaul. That means developing a fair model for social care funding for an ageing population, otherwise the costs threaten to devastate families and the public finances. There need to be improvements in efficiency through the use of technology and by encouraging departments to work better together, with a focus on the outcomes that society wants. People should also be encouraged to take more personal responsibility for their health and for their own old age care, rather than over-reliance on the state. If we are to have healthy public finances after Brexit, this is work that needs to be done. 
