food reviews
{ By Ted Thornhill, Mailonline Travel Editor   Published:  08:47, 1 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/travel_news/article-7355803/10-Britains-poshest-pubs-revealed-Tom-Kerridges-Hand-Flowers-Meikleour-Arms.html }
Pub paradise found. These incredible elite inns have one thing in common - they all offer great big dollops of luxury and fine food, as well as real ales and cosy atmospheres. Some have Michelin stars - one even has two - one has a helicopter landing zone, and one sources its ingredients from its very own garden.  Scroll down for Britain's most beautifully boutique boozers, from London to Scotland via Wales. The Cartford Inn, Little Eccleston, Lancashire Luxury studio cabins, 15 individually designed opulent bedrooms, a penthouse suite with a private rooftop terrace and two AA rosettes for its food - welcome to The Cartford Inn, a stupendously fine pub dating back to the 17th century that's set in an idyllic Lancashire location by the River Wyre. On booking.com it has a rating of 9.5 out of 10 from 97 reviews from members of the public - and it impressed the AA inspectors too, who have inked their thoughts into the AA's Pub Guide 2020. They didn't just like the food, they also liked the inn's 'stylish and contemporary interior', the 'blend of striking colours, natural wood and eclectic furniture'. Patrick Beaume, the Proprietor/Director, told MailOnline Travel: 'The focus is all about who we are and where we are - a touch of eccentricity - a mix of creativity and a twist of French.' Meikleour Arms, Perthshire, Scotland  Drive north from Perth for 12 miles and you'll find this absolute gem - the Meikleour Arms. It's been in the news for its massive hedge - at 100ft, it's the world's tallest and takes six to eight weeks to trim - but makes this list for its classy, elegant accommodation, its oak-beamed top-end restaurant and general dedication to the finer things in pub life. It was built in 1820 and belongs to the farming, forestry and salmon-fishing-orientated Meikleour Estate, which dates all the way back to the 12th century. 'Meikleour Estate has been bouncing between Scottish and Franco-Scottish lairds for centuries, through marriages, religious turmoil, Napoleonic wars and two World Wars,' explained co-owner Claire Mercer Nairne, who's originally from France (and who makes sure that there's always a good claret on offer). It's been in the family of her husband, Sam Mercer Nairne - who she met in 2004 - since the 14th century. They bought the pub in 2013 and 'reunited it' with the estate. Claire added: 'We thought it would be rather special to distil and share a bit of this heritage throughout the building and bedrooms. We had hundreds of years of letters, maps, drawings, old prints and trinkets in our attics as well as ancient oil paintings that we got copied on very rough cotton canvas, which look great on the bare walls of the pub.' The Punch Bowl Inn, Crosthwaite, Cumbria  Champagnes by the glass, ales from Cumbrian microbreweries, local and seasonal produce served to diners and polished oak floorboards, plus some very comfy leather furniture, The Punch Bowl Inn, which is tucked away by the village church in Crosthwaite in the Lyth Valley, is a destination inn par-excellence. There are nine luxury bedrooms. Each has been individually designed, but all come with flat-screen TVs, Roberts Revival radios, heated bathroom floors and free-standing roll-top baths, and separate showers. The AA's verdict? Two rosettes for the food, five stars for the accommodation. Plus, it has an average of 4.6 out of five from nearly 250 Google reviews. Your splendid rural idyll awaits... Red Lion Freehouse & Troutbeck Guest House, East Chisenbury, Wiltshire  ‘We like to do things properly’ proclaims the Red Lion Freehouse website. At many pubs, this is just a hollow proclamation. Not here. This exceptional thatched pub, which nestles amid the kind of countryside that inspires symphonies, has three AA rosettes for its fodder and five AA stars for its accommodation. The interior of the ancient Tudor building, writes the AA Pub Guide 2020, has ‘rustic flourishes’, while chefs Guy and Brittany Manning bring ‘particular flair’ to the seasonal menus. Herb roast guinea fowl breast with summer bean 'cassoulet', roasted tomato and salsa verde? Yes, please. There’s even a private dining room and tasting menus on offer. The rooms, meanwhile, feature Bang & Olufsen entertainment systems and natural stone bathrooms. Proper indeed. General Manager Martin Edwards said: 'We are special because whilst we do have a strong focus on attention to detail, very good food and handpicked drinks, we uniquely balance this with a very casual atmosphere that welcomes drinkers, children and dogs with a laid-back style of service. As we are a family run business, with our own grandparents and children always around, we treat guests as if they are the same. 'We also have five riverfront guest rooms. Guests can fill up at the Red Lion and wander down to their much posher room for a nice snooze.' The Pony & Trap, Newtown, Chew Magna, Bristol  Say hello to the pub of your dreams, if you’ve been dreaming of a 200-year-old country pub with a Michelin star set amid pastures, rolling hills and woodland. It’s still the local homely watering hole for farmers, walkers and residents of the small hamlet of Newton, where it’s located, but it’s also an inn that’s a cookery tour-de-force. Head chef Josh Eggleton’s repertoire includes whole Cornish plaice with brown shrimp, sea vegetables and butter sauce and Cornish Mackerel with bbq tartare, cucumber and charcoal mayonnaise. Many of the ingredients come straight from the pub’s garden. Click here for the gardener’s bloomin’ great Instagram feed.  The Pony & Trap’s Katie Oakley said: 'The pub has been owned and run by brother and sister duo Holly and Josh for 13 years with the support of their team. The food and drink that we serve are sourced and made with real love, from outstanding quality ingredients, and by really knowledgeable people. But at heart the place always feels relaxed and homely.' Y Talbot, Tregaron, West Wales  A chef that trained with Marco Pierre White and worked at The Ritz hotel in London? Check. Two AA rosettes for his food? Check. Inglenook fireplaces? Check. May we present one of Wales’s most inviting inns – the Grade II-listed Y Talbot. Fine dining and rustic charm come as standard at this 250-year-old inn. If you want to kip there, you can choose from nine well-appointed rooms. Owners Mick and Nia Taylor told MailOnline Travel: ‘What makes Y Talbot so special is our cosy, beamed bars, fantastic food prepared by Head Chef Dafydd Watkin and a really warm welcome from our locally recruited bilingual staff.’ The Royal Oak Paley Street, Littlefield Green, Berkshire ‘If you are planning to travel by helicopter,’ The Royal Oak Paley Street website says, ‘we recommend Phoenix Helicopters. When making your table reservation let us know that you are intending to travel by helicopter and we can co-ordinate your booking and travel for you with Phoenix Helicopters. ‘The helicopter landing is in a field that is situated just behind the pub.’ This, then, is clearly a boozer frequented by high-flyers – and no wonder. Owned by Nick Parkinson, son of Sir Michael, The Royal Oak offers excellent food in elegant surroundings. Dishes include smoked garlic and potato soup, nettle oil and crispy bread (£7) and Jerusalem artichoke risotto, roasted courgette and truffle oil (£17). 'The Royal Oak Paley Street is unique in its appearance and character, which has evolved over the 18 years I’ve had it,' said Nick. 'Many of the existing pubs in the area have undergone significant refurbishment and modernisation, some to the extent that they are virtually unrecognisable. The Oak has been sympathetically updated and preserved, maintaining its character and charm. It is indeed home to exquisite cuisine, an extensive wine list and locals who are as eclectic as the art that adorns the walls. We are an established restaurant, but we’re still a pub with a "proper" bar that serves a thoroughly good pint. 'We are one of only a few pubs with a helicopter landing pad, which generally causes a stir and provides plenty of fun for those that visit by helicopter and those watching, including the neighbours!' Pipe And Glass, South Dalton, Beverley, East Yorkshire A former coaching inn in South Dalton, East Yorkshire, the Pipe and Glass has been run since 2006 by James and Kate Mackenzie – and we really, really like what they’ve done with the place. They have created a warm, comfortable Yorkshire country pub – parts of which date back to the 17th century - where customers can drop in for a pint of ‘Two Chefs’ ale, or enjoy exceptionally high standards of modern cuisine. In 2010, the Pipe and Glass was awarded East Yorkshire’s first Michelin star, an award that it has retained ever since. Other plaudits under its belt include Michelin Pub of the Year and Yorkshire Dining Pub of the Year. Should you wish to stay the night – and since you’re there, why not? - you can choose from five graceful and well-equipped bedrooms (from £200). Think super king-sized beds with Yorkshire handmade luxury mattresses. The Harwood Arms, Fulham, London You can drop into this neighbourhood pub in Fulham for a pint and a natter at the bar – and enjoy one-Michelin-star dining. The atmosphere is always vibrant, the bar staff charming and the cooking absolutely top-notch. There’s a set-priced menu up for grabs for lunch and dinner, priced at £37.50 for two courses and £49.95 for three courses. Dishes include roast fallow deer with beetroot, blackcurrant and smoked bone marrow and cherry batter pudding with buttermilk ice cream. Do not, incidentally, skip the venison Scotch eggs, which are to-die-for (the author of this feature speaks from personal experience). The Hand & Flowers, Marlow, Buckinghamshire  Want to hit ‘peak posh’ for pub food? Then make a beeline (as long as you’ve booked weeks in advance) for The Hand & Flowers in the Georgian town of Marlow, Buckinghamshire, and its wonderful 17th-century dining room. It is the only pub in the UK with two Michelin stars and has four AA rosettes. Renowned chef-owner Tom Kerridge serves up delicious delights such as soft smoked salmon with pine emulsion, beer cracker and raw salmon parfait (£19.50); loin of Cotswold venison with carrot and Marmite purée, keema dhal, salt-baked carrot and spiced beef puff (£43.50,) and raspberry and lemon curd choux bun with fresh mint, raspberry jelly and Chantilly cream (£16.00). You can also order chips, for £7 a portion. And stay the night, from £195. There are 11 beautiful, sumptuous boutique bedrooms to choose from. Features include four-poster beds, hidden hot tub terraces and walk-in rainfall showers. Truly, an extraordinary boozer.  
