food reviews
{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  00:59, 1 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7380023/Boombod-track-lose-weight-7-days.html }
All-inclusive holidays, chunky cheeseburgers at barbecues and more Prosecco than we care to admit; summer truly is the most indulgent season of the year.  And, let's admit it, as autumn rolls around, we could end up carrying an extra roll or two ourselves. But, rather than giving up and resigning yourself to hiding behind your baggy winter wardrobe, make September the month you get back on track - without any hard work.  Boombod has shaken up the weight-lost industry over the last 18 months - selling over one MILLION boxes of its 7-day slimming aid shots and helping hundreds of thousands of people feel good and look great.  So why is this product such a sensation? We asked three slimmers to reveal how it worked for them - and share their unbelievable before and after pictures... 'I needed to make a change... I have lost 28 pounds so far - I can't remember the last time I felt this confident'  Liza, 23, dog daycare assistant, Boston 'My diet used to be really bad - I didn’t care about what I was eating or putting into my body. This was a huge issue because I don’t have a gallbladder and have gastroparesis, which makes digestion hard.  'So I decided it was time to start eating healthier and working out. Now I’ll eat a salad or some veggies and hummus for lunch. Dinners are portioned out so I’m not eating too many calories and carbs and I have been trying to really watch what I am eating and making healthier choices.  'I also started using Boombod. I first saw Boombod on Trisha Paytas’s Instagram. I have been following her for a while and her weight loss really inspired me. I was super skeptical at first because she is a celebrity, but she’s so down to earth that I thought I’d give it a go too! I’m so glad I did. 'Right away I felt better; I was less hungry, my appetite was really controlled. A day after taking it I could see my stomach getting flatter. My bloating went down so much within the first day and that’s when I knew how amazing this product was. I felt so energised and much better about myself. 'I've noticed everything from not being bloated to having my appetite controlled and my hair and skin looking better. My stomach just feels better. I feel like I’m finally digesting food again and I have so much energy. 'Within less then two months I have lost around 26/28 pounds! My heaviest was 202 pounds and now I am down to 176/174 pounds depending on the time of day. I don’t know the last time I have been this confident! I feel comfortable in my own skin and love showing off my body now. Beforehand I was very insecure about my weight.  'People notice and compliment me too which is the best feeling. Not only do I notice a huge difference but others do and it makes me feel wonderful. I have finally been able to wear short shorts again this summer after years of not even owning a pair.' Want to take control and get your confidence back like Liza? Head to Boombod.com NOW and get your first week's supply on BUY ONE GET ONE FREE or head to your nearest Superdrug and pick up your first pack today... After releasing three new flavours this spring, customers were lining the streets to get their hands on the sell-out product. Now back in stock online, it's time you found out what the major fuss is surrounding the weight-loss challenge of the year. Boombod – one of Trustpilot's highest-rated weight-loss aids and now available nationwide in Superdrug – is a seven-day plan taken three times a day – morning, lunchtime and evening – which has become a slimming phenomenon since its launch. In fact, when new flavours Lemon & Lime, Black Cherry for Men and Orange & Mango were launched alongside original Blackcurrant earlier this year, they sold out almost instantly.  So, how do you take it? Well, you simply mix each sachet with water and drink it half an hour before your meal. For an extra boost, all three sachets each contain their own unique vitamin blend to help with energy levels, reduce fatigue and maintain hair and skin health.  But the secret is in its main ingredient: glucomannan. This natural fibre makes up each sachet and, containing only 10 calories, helps to reduce appetite, cleanse and decrease bloating. Boombod contains 95 per cent glucomannan purity – the highest on the market. It is a natural, water-soluble dietary fibre extracted from the roots of the elephant yam. It has been taken daily in China for centuries because of its putative health benefits, and is part of a traditional medicine that has been extracted from the plant. As well as feeding the friendly bacteria in the gut, it is the only food ingredient with an EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) approved health claim for weight loss. They’ve got a massive Buy One Get One FREE sale on ALL flavours running right NOW. Check it out at Boombod.co.uk TODAY! Quantities are limited.  AND EVEN THE STARS LOVE IT... Reality TV icon Gemma Collins is not only famed for her big personality, she's also one of the UK's biggest champions of body confidence. The TOWIE diva makes no apologies for showing off her voluptuous curves, and has been even more keen to do so after slimming down for summer using Boombod, losing a massive three stone! The real GC says: 'Boombod is amazing! The results I saw with it last time had me feeling so confident and I can’t wait to see what the next seven days has in store for me! It’s quick, it’s easy and ACTUALLY works! They’ve got a BOGO free sale in RN – grab some to get bikini ready quick!' Get YOUR Buy One Get one Free deal by click HERE and kick-starting your summer slim down with the 7-day challenge the stars LOVE...  Another huge fan is Katie Price herself. Renowned for her personal life dramas and career highs and lows, the UK's most famous former glamour model (and mum of five) keeps her iconic figure in check with the help of three daily Boombod shots. She says: 'Another round done with Boombod weightloss shots and no secret here, I love this stuff! They're my quick & healthy go-to, especially when I have an event coming up that I need to get back on track for - helps get things looking & feeling the way I want every time. So, if you need to get results (and QUICKLY), check them out!' Meanwhile, over in the States, social media superstar Trisha Paytas is looking amazing after her 7-day challenge - and she inspired one of our own trialists, Elizabeth (see below), to put it to the test.  Celebrity Big Brother star Trisha reveals she loves using Boombod to help regain control of her cravings and snacking.  She explains: 'I'm on Boombod. YES, I still eat healthy and exercise regularly while using this stuff. BUT, my RESULTS have kicked up a notch since starting on this stuff! I feel incredible!!' Get YOUR Buy One Get one Free deal by click HERE and kick-starting your summer slim down with the 7-day challenge the stars LOVE...    'I would eat until I couldn't fit any more in - now I'm running at 6am and have lost 9 pounds'  Anna, 18, student 'I have felt really insecure about my stomach for as long as I can remember. I've suffered from bloating in the past, mainly from eating so much I couldn't physically eat any more. 'I don't usually believe in diets - I believe you should eat anything you want but just have smaller portions, but I decided to try and get rid of my stomach and everyone was talking about Boombod being really effective. 'I bought a week's supply and at I felt amazing. At first, I didn't really see a change as it takes a bit of time to start working, but within three days my stomach didn't look as bloated as before. 'I also noticed how much more energy I had - I would go running every week of my 7 day challenge at 6am!  'I recommend Boombod 100 per cent - I lost almost 9 pounds!'  'My diet was horrible... I took Boombod alongside a healthy diet and lost 15 pounds'  Tapanga, full-time mum from North Carolina 'I decided to try Boombod after seeing their products promoted on social media. Some of my favourite celebs seemed to be adamant it worked so I wanted to try it out too. 'Before my 7-day challenge my diet was horrible! I'd literally get up in the morning eat a box of cookies. So I needed to try something like this as I was suffering very badly with bloating due to all the junk I was eating.   'By the time I was almost finished my first week with Boombod I felt great, so I started a second and noticed that I was losing weight fast.  'Altogether I lost 15 pounds from doing the three shot system for 21 days. An added bonus was also that I had way more energy and my skin was glowing! I just felt like a better me.' Eager to start shaping up and feel great like Tapanga? Take the 7-day challenge by ordering Boombod HERE - and you'll get another week's supply for FREE. Get yours while stocks last.   Boombod's success lies in word of mouth: real people seeing real results, fast, and telling their friends and family about it. So much so, the product boasts an unbeatable 5 stars on customer review site TrustPilot, with thrilled slimmers flocking to the site to share their stories. No wonder it sold out in the UK last summer!  Here's just a few happy customers who have heaped praise and seen amazing results with Boombod... 
