{ By Terri-ann Williams For Mailonline   Published:  12:39, 29 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7406499/Top-20-Fish-Chip-shops-UK-battle-national-prize.html }
Fish and chips is one of the UK's most traditional and popular dishes, enjoyed at the seaside, at home or even just for a tasty treat, the dish is notorious across households across the country. But getting the best fish and chips is important, the fluffiness of the chips and choice of fish is a deal-breaker, now making that tough decision has been made that much easier, as the top 20 fish and chips establishments across the UK have now been revealed.  The data was compiled by The National Fish and Chip Awards 2019 and the twenty featured are semi-finalists in the running for the Fish and Chip Shop of the Year Award, the flagship category in the 2020 National Fish & Chip Awards.  The awards are organised by Seafish, the public body that supports the £10 billion UK seafood industry, The National Fish & Chip Awards are the UK's premier awards for fish and chips businesses.   Eateries that made it into the top 20 offer everything from your traditional fish and chips, to seafood, deep fried mars bars and waffles. The winner of the award will be crowned in January, but until then, feast your eyes on the top takeaways across the UK.  Mike's Traditional Fish & Chips in Eastleigh, Hampshire   In central and southern England Mike's Traditional Fish & Chips in Eastleigh, Hampshire made it into the top twenty. The chip shop offers a whole range of traditional chip shop foods and also offers a lunchtime special. This includes a sausage or fishcake, chips and a drink for just £3.50 and is valid from 11.30am to 2pm. Food from the chip shop had only been available for collection, however Deliveroo has now launched in Eastleigh and Mike's will be participating.  This will mean that fans of the chipshop won't even need to leave their home to sample the delights. The chipshop also offers pea fritters as well as other dishes. A traditional fish and chips would cost around £4.50 at the eatery, and side dishes such as curry sauce, cost about 50p. Walnut Tree Traditional Fish and Chips in Milton Keynes, Hertfordshire For those who like a traditional fish and chip menu, the Walnut Tree is the place to be! It has a broad range serving of course fish and chips as well as sausages and chicken. It has also branched out into a whole range of side dishes including pineapple fritters, breaded mushrooms and mac and cheese bites. A large cod will set you back around £6, while other fish such as haddock is also available on the menu. It has a Food Hygiene rating of five stars and was also previously nominated for a Good Food Award.  French's Fish Shop, Norfolk  In the east of the country, French's Fish Shop topped the charts for those wanting to enjoy a seaside stroll with their favourite dish. It first opened its doors 90 years ago and has been family run ever since. The Fish & Chip shop has won many awards over the years including 'Best in Region' for the National Fish & Chip Awards 2016. A large cod would set you back around £6.60 while a large chips would be £3.20 but would easily feed many mouths.  The shop was opened by William Thomas French who passed the business onto his two sons Maurice & Reggie who then subsequently left it with Marcus French.  The Cod's Scallops, Nottinghamshire This eatery in the east Midlands serves a wide selection of fish and shellfish daily, depending what comes off their very own boats, also made the top twenty.  The Cod's Scallops could be the best bet for those who like to be a little bit more adventurous with their food choices as it also offers dressed crab, cockles and mussels as well as lobster.  This one is a little more on the pricey side compared to other entrants and a cod would cost £9.50. It also boasts award winning pies and desserts. Over the summer the eatery also launched a promotion that with every full price adult meal, a child could eat for free.  Belmont Bay, Harrow, London  Londoners needn't miss out of the tasty treat, as the capital also boasts one eatery in the top twenty.  Belmont Bay Fish Bar in Harrow offers traditional fish and chips and for those who can't get enough of their version, the eatery had even made their dish available on Deliveroo and also caters for private functions. Here a cod fillet would cost around £6, while other items on the menu include onion rings and mushrooms in batter. For those looking for something a little bit more exotic, the eatery also offers a range of kebabs that you can get your teeth stuck into. The chip shop has been open since 2004 and chef John previously stated that the company tries to use as much home grown produce as possible.  Seafare Guildford, Surrey In the south East, this is your best bet for fish and chip satisfaction, with both the fish and chips being prepared daily on site, the traditional restaurant even offers gluten free options. It was established in 1981 and has special offers including a family meal for just £18.50 and children's meals. Here a jumbo cod would set you back around £6.40 while the menu includes other side dishes to chose from such as pea and pineapple fritters. Keen to move with the times, customers can even sign up to the Seafare's very own loyalty scheme. You will have to spend £10 to get a stamp and once six stamps are collected you will receive a free meal of your choice.  Fiddlers Elbow, Leintwardine, Herefordshire Over in the Midlands and the Fiddlers Elbow was also part of the top twenty and has previously managed to place in the top sixty in the National Fish & Chip Awards for two years in a row. The business focuses on delivering a menu for everyone, offering gluten free and vegan options and using as many locally-sourced ingredients as possible. A standard cod will set you back £5.75 and a regular chips is enough to feed one person, although they also offer a half chips/half salad alternative for the healthier eater.  The Chip Shed, Warwickshire In Warwickshire the Chip Shed, also placed in the list, the restaurant also dedicates a pan to its gluten free customers every Tuesday from 5pm. Bosses describe The Chip Shed as the 'only authentic fish and chip restaurant in Warwickshire' and diners can take away or eat in, with space for 20 people inside and another 20 outdoors. The restaurant also supplies large orders in advance for parties and bigger gatherings, but a regular fish and chips takeaway deal will cost £7.60.   Hook & Line in Leeds, Yorkshire The Hook & Line offers a wide range of traditional fish and chips and even caters for those who don't eat fish, with battered halloumi.  The chippy also offers a very attractive meal deal for just £5 which includes battered haddock, chips, a side and a drink. Diners on TripAdvisor have repeatedly praised the quality of fish at Hook & Line while others say it offers a friendly and chilled-out ambiance.   The Bearded Sailor, Leeds  Leeds made the cut twice and The Bearded Sailor also features in the list and has been hailed as 'the best fish and chip shop in Leeds' by social media users. The shop itself is described as 'delightfully decorated' and meal deals are available, with a standard haddock and chips costing £6.20. Regulars also like to take on 'The Kraken' food challenge - haddock and chips surrounded by eight fish goujons and a side of your choice.   Fish & Chips @ Weston Grove, Chester In the north west, usually known for its Roman walls, Chester also made the list with Fish & Chips @ Weston Grove.  The company is committed to participation in the Sustainable Palm Oil City project in Chester and says that it works with suppliers to ensure that where palm oil is present, it is sourced from sustainable sources. Bosses have also removed plastic straws and cutlery and ask customers to reuse paper bags they are supplied with, while they also promote an environmental message with talks in local schools. Shap Chippy, Cumbria  Elsewhere in north west and Shap Chippy in Cumbria has also firmly cemented itself as a favourite.  With a dedicated team, the staff start their day at 6am in order to make sure all of their potatoes are peeled to make the perfect chips.  Its owners Matt and Ashley, strongly believe in using locally sourced ingredients and also say they look at the science behind cooking to maintain a great taste while using as little oil run off as possible. The Dolphin, Dungannon In Northern Ireland the Dolphin Takeaway in Dungannon is a top choice, it has also previously won Northern Ireland's No.1 Fish & Chip Shop 2018, a title which it has held for three years.  Bosses say they offer locally supplied ingredients to sustainably sourced fish and  'go the extra mile to ensure food is delicious, healthier and nutritious'.  Fish are fried fresh to order, available in a choice of portion sizes and can be offered gluten-free, with a deluxe cod meal deal costing £9.25.  The Frying Squad, County Down Also making the list, describing itself as serving 'criminally good food', is the Frying Squad. The shop has also previously won awards including the Best Takeaway in Northern Ireland. It was set up in 2003 by Michael Neill, who acquired an existing fish and chip shop in Newtownards, Co. Down.  Since then the business has gone from strength to strength, with Mr Neil expanding to create another chain of gourmet chippies called The Salt House.   Carron Fish Bar, Stonehaven In Scotland, Grampian seems to be the place to go for the best fish and chips.  Carron Fish Bar in Stonehaven is one of the best, boasting brilliant customers reviews and if you want to have a cheeky dessert, you can even try a deep fried Mars bar. In fact, the shop's claim to fame is that it invented the famous snack in the mid 1990s - and was even ordered to remove a banner advertising that fact in 2015 when Aberdeenshire Council said it had to come down 'for the good of the community'. Low's Traditional Fish & Chips, Grampian Also in Grampian, Low's Traditional Fish & Chips was voted one of the best, having previously scooped awards such as the Best Fish & Chip Shop in Scotland 2019.  The business was established 30 years ago by Clifford Low who had been managing director of the Ashvale and had spent his entire life in the fish industry.  After 13 years in charge, Clifford stepped aside and was replaced by his son David. A regular haddock will set you back £5.30, with standard chips an extra £2.30. Fish 'n' Fritz, Dorset  In the south west Fish 'n' Fritz in Dorset offers a warm welcome with a large seating area. Its website boasts that it 'has always gone to great lengths to source the finest and freshest ingredients' and that its 'very popular batter is a trade secret, a recipe developed and perfected by us over a long period of time'. Located in the middle of Weymouth Harbour, customers get to enjoy their chips just a hop, skip and a jump from the sea with fantastic views of the water.  A large cod and chips costs £9.30, but there is a wide selection of alternatives, including gluten-free and vegetarian options.  Rockfish, Devon While in Devon, Rockfish's seaside location makes it the perfect place to enjoy the British classic. With restaurants across Devon and Dorset, customers get the ultimate chip shop experience, with the beach just a stone's throw away from many of the locations. Rockfish prides itself on sustainability, sourcing its products from local markets where fish comes straight from the nearest harbour.  If you're looking for a classic cod it will cost around £6.50, and adding your chips will be an extra £1.25. Offers at the chip shop also include 'Fish Friday' where you get the fresh local catch for just £3.'  Hiks, Swansea Wales also has two entries making the shortlist. The first one being Swansea's Hiks, which opened around seven years ago. It offers a range of meal deals included fish and even battered sausage. Battered jumbo sausage and chips comes to £4.80, while pie and chips costs £5.20 at the eatery, which has an accompanying 41-seater restaurant and car park. TripAdvisor customers have praised the takeaway, with Anderplants commenting how it was 'well worth the wait' for food during a busy night after Swansea City home game. KeithsKeggs wrote that he 'always' goes there for his fish and chips, and loves the 'fantastic food and great service'.  Hooked @31, Pembrokeshire In Pembrokeshire, Hooked @31 offers both fish and chips as well as ice cream and waffles. A small cod and chips costs £5, while the Welsh eatery offers a variety of other takeaway favourites including hunters chicken burger and chips for £6.50 as part of a Monday deal, while pie with chips, gravy and a soft drink comes to £5.50 on Tuesdays. TripAdvisor customer Katie W commented that queues outside were 'always a good sign' and food was always 'fresh' while Chris M said it serves the 'best haddock, chips and peas' in the area. The winner of the Fish and Chip Shop of the Year Award will be announced at The National Fish & Chip Awards' 32nd anniversary awards ceremony in London on 23 January 2020. 
