{ By Nicole Douglas For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:29, 28 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7401019/The-Proposal-stars-Jess-Nathan-five-months-on.html }
Channel Seven's new dating show The Proposal received mixed reviews when it premiered on Tuesday night. But despite some fans calling the program a 'hot mess', the first couple to meet on the series have already proved their critics wrong. Single mother Jess Nooy and paramedic Nathan Parks are still very much together and in love five months after filming their episode .   Nathan proposed to Jess just an hour after meeting her, after she chose him as her favourite out of eight eligible bachelors.  Speaking live on Sunrise on Wednesday, the 34-year-old waitress said that going on The Proposal was 'the best decision we ever made'.  She said: 'We are very much still together, we're happy. It's the real deal! 'It does seem very surreal, the whole thing is absolutely crazy. I think we both agree that it's the best decision we ever made and we're so happy that we did it... and here we are today!' The Proposal sees eight people compete in pageant-style rounds in a bid to win the heart of a suitor, before they propose in front of a studio audience. Jess' two teenage daughters, aged 13 and 15, watched on as she was introduced to a selection of handsome men, from a marketing manager to a wedding celebrant. But it was Nathan who won her over, and it appears that Jess' children approve of their mum's new fiancé. Jess explained: '[My daughters] absolutely love him. He makes them feel very comfortable, and we all laugh together which is really, really nice. 'They love him. They're really happy for him, and for me, and for us. We're an instant little family.' Nathan added: 'It's been a whirlwind journey, and we're learning more and more about each other every day. 'Since it all started, every day you fall more and more in love. She's such a lovely, caring person and that's what I went on the show to find... I couldn't be happier.' The Proposal continues Tuesday at 8:30pm on Channel Seven 
