{ By Ruth Sunderland for the Daily Mail    Published:  23:38, 27 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/comment/article-7400877/RUTH-SUNDERLAND-Big-auditors-cashing-in.html }
Partners at Deloitte are a resilient bunch. They haven’t let little things like multiple reviews into the shortcomings of audit in the UK, or the huge fines they have incurred for sub-standard work, get in the way of their most lucrative payday for ten years. Top partners will receive an average of just over £880,000 – not bad going for a profession under such heavy fire. It also puts in perspective some of the recent fines for misconduct and ineptitude. Deloitte’s latest disgrace is over its audit of outsourcer Serco, which got into hot water with the Serious Fraud Office after it charged the authorities for putting electronic tags onto the ankles of prisoners who were either back in jail, abroad or dead. Auditors failed to stop these shenanigans and as a consequence Deloitte was hit with a £6.5million fine, along with a penalty of £150,000 slapped on partner Helen George. These sound like painful sums, but they aren’t, not really. That £6.5million – discounted to £4.2million for settlement – is a tiny fraction of Deloitte’s near £4billion revenues. George’s fine, which was reduced to £97,500, would be ruinous and life-altering for most people. But assuming she took home average partner pay or thereabouts, she could have cleared it within months. Deloitte’s results are accompanied by lashings of ‘woke’ self-praise. Dimple Agarwal, its managing partner for people and purpose, explains how hard it is working to increase the numbers of senior women. More than 40 per cent of the 78 new partners were female, which is laudable, provided they are better at auditing than George and some of her male colleagues. The insistence that it wants to change and come up with an audit fit for the future is undermined by its defence of the status quo.  The quality of its audits is, it claims, ‘considerably enhanced’ by being part of a big diverse firm with money to invest. Exactly the type of company it is now, in other words: the type that produced audit triumphs like Serco. Auditors have adopted a tone of injured self-righteousness and are full of reasons why reforms will have unintended consequences. It’s rather reminiscent of the banks after the financial crisis and should be viewed with similar scepticism. The bottom of the blue-chip league table reads like a roll call of corporate Britain. Centrica, Direct Line, Kingfisher and the supermarkets Sainsbury’s and Morrisons are in the nether reaches of the FTSE 100. Marks & Spencer, in the lowest place, is on the brink of being kicked out. Whilst the big domestic names huddle in the relegation zone, the upper echelon is dominated by globetrotters: the oil barons, the consumer goods giants, the international banks, drugs companies and miners. What’s going on? Although the Footsie is sometimes presented as a barometer of British business, that is far from the truth. Our flagship index has for a long time been a home to companies from around the world and in the main, that is a good thing. At the moment, there is Brexit-related wariness around UK-focused companies and the weakness of sterling doesn’t help. But there are other factors. In the case of M&S, the blame can be pinned on the state of the High Street and, more pertinently, two decades of management failure, which I hope will be reversed by the chairman, Archie Norman, and his tie-up with Ocado. Other laggards have their particular problems. These range from rising claims costs and changes to the Ogden Rate (used to calculate personal injury payouts at Direct Line) to the botched Asda merger which has dented Sainsbury’s so badly. Candidates for promotion next week include Russian metal producer Polymetal and generic drugs business Hikma. Another that might move up is Meggitt, a Bournemouth engineering firm founded as a machine tool operation just after the Second World War, which has been out of the FTSE 100 for almost four years. That would be a welcome return for a British manufacturer, assuming it does not suffer the same fate as Cobham and catch the eye of an overseas predator. The Footsie’s geographical diversity has been a great strength, giving UK savers exposure to some exciting investment opportunities worldwide and shielding them when the domestic economy is weak. Even so, if Marks & Spencer does fall out of the index after 35 unbroken years, it will be a very sad day indeed.   
