food reviews
{ By Christopher Stevens for Daily Mail   Published:  22:00, 26 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7396409/CHRISTOPHER-STEVENS-nights-TV-Forget-whodunnit-prepare-pun-it.html }
Midsomer Murders   Dad's Army    A sweet-maker is drowned in gallons of liquid cocoa before having his head encased in a solid shell of confectionery, and what is the verdict on Midsomer Murders (ITV)? ‘Death By Chocolate!’ I’m beginning to suspect the writers of this tongue-in-cheek mystery perennial are dreaming up the crimes just so pathologist Fleur Perkins (Annette Badland) can deliver another atrocious joke. Sure enough, when the millionaire owner of a troubled rugby club was found frozen solid in the high-tech ice bath used by his players, Fleur donned a fur hat to announce: ‘He got turned into a human ice lolly.’ Really, the producers should start a competition and get readers to send in their own fatal puns. Here’s my entry: a factory owner sacks 999 staff, and one of them slits the boss’s throat in revenge. Fleur says: ‘Death by a thousand cuts!’ Too mundane? How about this: a noted arachnologist expires after falling into his own tank of scorpions. ‘Oh death,’ cries Fleur, ‘where is thy sting?’ Honestly, I would not be surprised if either or both those lines have already been used, because one pleasure of Midsomer is that each episode is so instantly forgettable. You know you have seen the one with Una Stubbs, or Simon Callow, or June Whitfield, but can you remember who the murderer was? Of course you cannot. This makes the show perfect for repeats but also adds to the sense of relaxation when a new mystery airs.  There are so many suspects with interchangeable names that you will never keep track of all the clues, which means you do not have to bother concentrating. Tamzin Outhwaite and Marcia Warren were the star names this time and, despite an unwritten convention that it’s the celeb wot dunnit, neither proved the killer. At least, I don’t think they did. I am already starting to forget how it ended. Nobody can ever forget the immortal stars of the original Walmington-on-Sea Home Guard, a collection of character actors and repertory veterans thrown together in a low-budget sitcom that no one ever imagined could be a ratings winner half a century later. So it was a stormingly brave decision to remake three lost episodes of Dad’s Army (Gold) with a new cast.  The intention was never to out-do the originals, just to give us an impression of how they might have looked.  The three half-hour shows are airing on consecutive evenings, with the last one being shown tonight. Remaining faithful to the scripts, the results are better than anyone could have dared hope. Kevin McNally is Captain Mainwaring, giving us the irritable, crusty, pompous John Bull of a man just as Arthur Lowe portrayed him — without stooping to an imitation. Robert Bathurst plays Sergeant Wilson, capturing the urbane, world-weary charm though inevitably lacking John Le Mesurier’s touch of gravelly loucheness . . . earned during many nights lounging against the piano in Ronnie Scott’s Soho jazz club.  The second episode was a showcase for Kevin Eldon and David Hayman as Lance corporal Jones and Private Frazer, reviving characters so marvellously we could almost have been watching Clive Dunn and John Laurie — but in high-definition, not fuzzy black and white. Mathew Horne and Tom Rosenthal ably complete the ensemble as Walker and Pike, but the special joy is Timothy West as Godfrey.  Arnold Ridley played him as an amiable old duffer with a dicky bladder. West finds something more: he is genuinely distraught at his own weakness. Not better than the original, then — but every bit as good. Nuptials of the night: Gina and Michael (Anya Taylor-Joy and Finn Cole) were married by the captain aboard an ocean liner in Peaky Blinders (BBC1). Today’s equivalent would be getting hitched on a Ryanair flight. Not so romantic, really. 
