food reviews
{ By George Nixon For Thisismoney.co.uk    Published:  09:54, 23 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/mortgageshome/article-7386677/CMA-sanctions-RBS-Santander-incorrect-mortgage-PPI-information.html }
The UK competition watchdog has ordered two of Britain's biggest high street banks to appoint independent bodies to oversee their PPI processes after more than 14,000 customers were not sent accurate PPI reminders. The Competition and Markets Authority said RBS and Santander breached a 2011 order that requires PPI providers to send annual reviews to customers with information about their policies, to prompt them to consider whether they were suitable. Both banks have already breached the order before, with the CMA warning both RBS and Santander in 2016 to improve their PPI practices. The CMA said 10,370 RBS mortgage PPI customers did not receive their annual reviews for six years starting in 2012, because the bank sent them to out of date addresses. It said the failure to provider these reminders meant 'those affected were unable to fully assess whether they wanted to continue paying for PPI, and were stopped from shopping around effectively. 'Moreover, many customers may not have even been aware they still had PPI.' RBS has written to customers affected and provided them a reminder of their right to cancel their policies. The CMA said the taxpayer-owned bank has paid out £1.5million in refunds to customers. A spokesperson for RBS said: 'We are contacting those customers who may not have received their annual PPI review letters and have put systems in place to ensure that this does not happen again.  'We would like to apologise to any customers affected.'  Meanwhile Santander sent incorrect information to over 3,400 mortgage PPI customers between 2012 and 2017. The incorrect information on annual review letters put out by the bank mis-stated some customers' mortgage balances. Santander said the error did not impact anyone's mortgage payments or PPI information, but under the 2011 order annual review letters have to contain accurate information. The bank fixed the problem in 2018. A spokesperson for the bank said: 'We're sorry that as part of a communication about their PPI policies, a small number of customers who were in arrears received incorrect information on their mortgage balance. 'Customers were not financially impacted as a result and would have been aware of their correct mortgage balance through their annual mortgage statement and other communications. 'We informed the CMA as soon as we became aware of the issue and have taken steps to ensure it does not happen again.' For those who feel they have been mis-sold PPI or may be entitled to compensation, there is less than a week until the Financial Conduct Authority's August 29 deadline. Those wanting to make a claim should read This is Money's guide on how you can make a PPI claim for free. Banks have already paid out £46billion in compensation to those who have claimed. Adam Land, the CMA's Senior Director of Remedies, Business and Financial Analysis, said: 'It is unacceptable that some banks aren't providing PPI reminders – or are sending inaccurate ones – eight years after our Order came into force.  'The legally binding directions we've issued today will make sure that both RBS and Santander now play by the rules. 'These are serious issues that, in the future, may result in fines if the Government gives us the powers we've asked for. 'For now, we expect RBS to repay all affected customers quickly, and for both RBS and Santander to make sure that similar breaches do not happen again.' This is Money has contacted RBS for comment. 
