{ By Ed Riley For Mailonline   Published:  10:13, 23 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7386617/Bake-star-Prue-Leith-vows-not-prepared-PR-stunt-hospital-food-review.html }
Great British Bake Off star Prue Leith says she is 'not prepared to be a PR stunt' after she prepares to advise a review to end the hospital food scandal. The TV judge has been drafted in by the Department of Health and Social care after the deaths of six patients from a listeria outbreak. A 'root and branch' review was launched to examine whether the number of hospitals catering in-house can be increased. Health Secretary Matt Hancock called for the comprehensive review in June after six people died after contracting listeria from pre-packaged sandwiches and salads either purchased on site or given out by hospital staff. Prue today told Good Morning Britain that she was determined to change hospital food, and said she was not just prepared to be a 'PR stunt.' She told the ITV programme: 'There is hardly a family in the country that hasn't wanted to improve hospital food 'Everybody has a relative that has a story, and many people are down in the shop buying chocolate bars to feed the patients because the food is not palatable. I don't want to blame the caterers, I have been a caterer all my life. They will do the best they possibly can in the budget. I think the sad thing is, is successive governments reactions to hospital food is to make an announcement, get some Gordon Ramsay or Lloyd Grossman or James Martin. 'My immediate reaction when they asked me was no. I am not prepared to be a PR stunt, to just disappear as soon as they have had the photograph. 'The public are right to be cynical, because successive governments have not done anything about it. 'But I believe that this government really, really wants to do it.' She added: 'Being in hospital is not a joyous experience. 'The one point in your day when you can give them joy or pleasure should be lunch or dinner. 'I honestly believe this government gets it. If i feel that nothing is happening I will stamp off. 'I want to give it a really good go. We need to get people in the hospitals to think its a good idea. 'I am very outspoken I have walked off government committees before. I like to get involved, and stuck in. The whole world should realise how good food can be.' The review will also consider whether kitchen facilities can be changed to bring more chefs into hospitals as well as using less frozen food and sourcing local fresh produce where possible. Celebrity cook Leith has previously criticised the current standard of hospital meals and called for NHS trusts to make appealing and nutritious food on-site for patients. Speaking at the launch of the review, she said: 'Millions of pounds are wasted in hospitals with food ending up in the bin, unpalatable food being the main complaint. March 25: Enid Heap, 84, admitted to Manchester Royal Infirmary (MRI) April 15: Beverley Sowah, 57, also admitted April 26: Beverley Sowah dies May 6: Enid Heap dies May 15: Ian Hitchcock, 52, admitted to Royal Derby Hospital May 16: Public Health England (PHE) tells MRI the listeria strains which infected Mrs Sowah and Mrs Heap are linked May 20: Inquest on Mrs Sowah opened and concluded, death given as natural causes May 24: PHE identifies the infected patients all ate sandwiches supplied by Good Food Chain May 25: All hospitals told to withdraw Good Food Chain sandwiches May 29: MRI informs coroner in Manchester that the deaths of Mrs Heap and Mrs Sowah are linked to an outbreak June 7: North Country Cooked Meat named as the source; six infection cases and three deaths June 8: Mr Hitchcock dies at Nottingham City Hospital June 12: Manchester coroner serves court order on PHE and Food Standards Agency to supply information – they do on June 17 June 14: PHE reveals cases of infection have risen to nine; five deaths June 17: Health Secretary Matt Hancock reveals eight hospitals affected, promises hospital food review June 26: Food Standards Agency tells Good Food Chain it does not believe the firm is the source of the outbreak June 27: Good Food Chain announces it is going into liquidation, meaning the loss of 125 jobs. The inquiry into the outbreak is now focused on North Country Cooked Meats in Salford August 1: Public Health England announces a sixth person has died  'I'm delighted that, at long last, Downing Street and the Department of Health have decided to do something about it. 'A hospital meal should be a small highlight, a little pleasure and comfort, and it should help, not hinder, the patient's recovery.' The review will examine the quality of the estimated 140 million meals provided to patients each year, as well as staff meals. The review was announced as a former health chief blamed 'systematic failures' in public health for 17 deaths linked to separate outbreaks of listeria and streptococcus earlier this year. In July, NHS Mid Essex Clinical Commissioning Group confirmed 13 people had died in an outbreak of invasive Group A streptococcus. Writing in the Journal Of The Royal Society Of Medicine on Friday, Professor John Ashton, former north-west regional director of public health, warned that years of austerity and cuts to local authority budgets had stripped the ability of environmental health departments to keep up with threats. Some patients have described their meals as 'pigswill' and 'unfit for dogs', according to the Campaign for Better Hospital Food. Many new hospitals have been built without kitchens, meaning around half of the NHS's hot food is bought in as ready meals. Hospitals also rely on pre-packaged sandwiches and salads, but these are particularly susceptible to food poisoning and were responsible for the six deaths earlier this year.  Cases of listeria were reported in eight hospitals around the country, from Manchester to Sussex. Victims are believed to include ex-nurse Beverley Sowah, 57, and retired chemist Enid Heap, 84. The heartbroken family of 52-year-old businessman Ian Hitchcock, from Derbyshire, demanded to know: 'How could an NHS sandwich kill him?' The listeria scandal was followed by revelations that patients are eating hospital food cooked up to a year earlier in a factory. And earlier this week a snapshot survey by the Daily Mail – with readers sending in pictures of hospital meals – found many were failing to provide basic nutrition standards. The review has been welcomed by Prime Minister Boris Johnson. He said: 'Since entering Downing Street, my focus has been clear - to make sure our world-class NHS has everything it needs to continue providing the very best frontline care. 'Guaranteeing hospitals serve nutritional, tasty and fresh meals will not only aid patient recovery, but also fuel staff and visitors as they care for loved ones and the vulnerable. 'Our NHS has led the way since the day it was formed. This review will ensure it remains the standard-bearer for healthy choices, as it works unstintingly to improve the nation's well-being.' Mr Hancock said: 'When people are in hospital, they should be given all the help they can to get better - and that includes food. 'So I'm determined patients enjoy the best, most delicious and nutritious food to help them recover and leave hospital as quickly as possible. I'm delighted we've assembled a first-rate group to drive this agenda.' The review will be chaired by the former head of the Hospital Caterers Association and catering lead for Taunton and Somerset NHS Foundation Trust, Philip Shelley. Hospital caterers, patient groups and kitchen staff will also be involved in the review. Royal College of Nursing England director Patricia Marquis said: 'Ensuring patients and staff have access to healthy, nutritious food in hospital is essential but you don't need a celebrity chef to tell you hospital food needs an overhaul.' She added: 'Our expectations for this review go beyond half-baked schemes no matter how noble. This won't make a lasting impact without a full-scale investment in the health and care system. 'If the Health Secretary's prepared to review hospital food, when can nurses expect a full review of safe staffing including the need for legislation?'    Miss Leith is not the first celebrity to be brought in to improve hospital food. Ex-MasterChef host Loyd Grossman was appointed in 2000 to run the £40million Better Hospital Food Programme. He assembled a 'magnificent seven' of chefs, among them luminaries of some of London's most celebrated restaurants including The Ivy and The Savoy, to bring up standards. They devised 43 new recipes containing delicacies ranging from mung beans to banana brulee – but many patients stuck with the traditional hospital options instead. Airedale General Hospital in West Yorkshire said the experiment with macaroni, smoked haddock and herbs on its wards failed because of patients' adverse reactions. A spokesman said: 'Perhaps olive oil mash is not something that appeals when you are under the weather.' In 1995, chef Albert Roux launched nutritional guidelines for hospital catering – which were largely ignored.  Television chef Heston Blumenthal also signed up to a project to improve NHS meals in 2010, and recommended changing the smells and lighting experienced by patients as they eat. He devised the idea of using kelp – or seaweed – to make food more flavoursome without using additional salt. But a report in 2013 revealed that celebrity chefs, food experts and 20 years of reviews, inquiries and initiatives costing more than £54million had failed to improve hospital food.  What is listeriosis? Listeriosis is a rare but deadly infection caused by eating food contaminated with a bacteria called listeria monocytogenes. There are about 170 cases of listeriosis in the UK every year, and it kills about one in four of those affected. Most people who eat food contaminated with listeria develop mild flu-like symptoms that pass within a few days. But in high-risk individuals, the listeria can spread around the body, leading to life-threatening complications including sepsis. How does it spread? Listeria is most commonly spread in pre-packaged sandwiches and ready meals, as was the case in this outbreak. It can flourish with or without oxygen and, unlike many other bacteria, thrives and reproduces at temperatures as low as 0°C. This enables it to survive in the fridge and pass through food-processing equipment and the food chain. Historically, the bug has been associated with soft ripened cheese, such as camembert or brie, as well as pate, sliced meats, salad leaves and raw unpasteurised milk. You can also catch listeria from someone – for example, if you eat food they have handled when they have not washed their hands. How can it kill you? The listeria bacteria enters the intestinal system in contaminated food, before colonising the liver where it multiplies. If the body is unable to fight off the infection, it can lead to sepsis or meningitis, which can kill within hours. Listeria bacteria have the ability to hijack immune cells and live within human cells, making it very difficult to treat. It is diagnosed with a blood test and treated with antibiotics. Who is at risk? Listeria frequently proves deadly for those with weak immune systems – with pregnant women and newborn babies most at risk. Pregnant women are advised to avoid all soft cheeses because even if a listeria infection causes only a mild illness in the mother, it can spread to their unborn baby with devastating consequences. NHS England said more than a quarter of pregnant mothers with listeriosis lost their babies. People aged over 60 years are also deemed to be at high risk of developing listeriosis, as are those who having chemotherapy, which suppresses their immune system. 
