food reviews
{ By Ian Randall For Mailonline   Published:  15:51, 20 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7375101/Spanish-Australian-consumers-rely-online-reviews-people-UK.html }
Spanish and Australian consumers are more like to make use of online reviews than shoppers from the UK and the US when trying to decide what to buy. A US researcher studied online traffic and purchases made on a popular hotel booking site to determine which nations are the most guided by online reviews. German and Chinese shoppers were found to be the least reliant on reviews. The researcher believes cultural factors affect online shopping behaviours — with more indulgent, risk averse, feminine and collectivist cultures using reviews more. Scroll down for video A researcher from Rutgers University, New Jersey studied the reliance of nine countries on online reviews.  Here's how the countries ranked:  1. Spain 2. Australia 3- Canada 3- UK 4. Mexico 5. France 6. USA 7. China 8. Germany Marketing researcher Rae Yule Kim of the Rutgers University in New Jersey monitored more than 10 million adverts on an online hotel booking website in 2017, which were viewed by a total of 575,456 consumers. Each time a consumer viewed an advert, the product price and online review rating were noted — as was when a view led to a booking.  On average, consumers viewed 21 adverts for each purchase that was made. The study focused on shoppers from Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Mexico, Spain, UK and the US, where the website's most frequent users were located, with each consumer's nationality estimated from their IP address. The researchers assessed the data they gathered through the lens of five different cultural dimensions for each nationality: risk aversion, collectivism, femininity/masculinity, indulgence and power distance. The latter measures the acceptance of social hierarchy, with the lower the distance, the more a culture tries to share power and less respect is given to figures in power. Mr Kim found that of the nine countries included in the study, consumers from Spain and Australia appear the most reliant on online review ratings to inform their purchase decisions. In contrast, consumers from Germany appeared to use reviews the least — while shoppers in the UK and Canada were more heavily influenced by online ratings than their counterparts in the United States.  Mr Kim believes that the findings may be connected with each nation's cultural characteristics. 'Online reviews might carry a more pronounced effect on consumers’ decision making in Spain, where the culture tends to be relatively collectivistic and aversive to risks compared to the United States,' he said. In general, Mr Kim found that greater levels of national collectivism, femininity, risk averse and indulgence were associated with a greater reliance on online review ratings. For example, he wrote, 'Consumers from indulgent cultures will be more spontaneous in making purchase decisions on the products with positive review ratings compared to the consumers from a restraint culture.'  'Feminine culture might be more familiar with interacting and sharing opinions with others, he added. Thus, the informational merits of others’ opinions and the review ratings will be valued more.' In contrast, countries with more power distance tended to make less use of previous customer feedback.  The full findings of the study were published in the journal Electronic Commerce Research and Applications.        
