{ By Jessica Green For Mailonline   Published:  07:44, 20 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7372667/Indian-restaurant-owner-earns-fans-Twitter-hitting-shameless-TripAdvisor-critics.html }
A no-nonsense Indian restaurant owner brutally hit back at a 'shameless' TripAdvisor reviewer who criticised the size of its portions - after apparently ordering a bargain £3.50 three-course meal. The boss of Shimla Cottage, in Coatbridge, North Lanarkshire, sent a brutal reply to the complaint, which has since been shared on Twitter and liked nearly 2,000 times. Labelled 'Awful Lack Of Manners', the review claimed the owners were 'very rude' and that 'you only get what you pay for', adding: 'Even at that price, it felt like an absolute rip off.' Not one for accepting criticism, the restaurateur replied: 'Judging from the waistline of most of your party I could have served them a full cow and they would still have left hungry.' The anonymous customer, who left the review last month, was at the Scottish eatery for a large family meal and had ordered pakora, a chicken-based main course and fudge cake for dessert. But she left unimpressed with the food standards and was quick to brand Shimla Cottage 'the worst ever Indian restaurant'.  Taking to TripAdvisor, she said: 'Owners very rude, went as a large family meal. Everything felt very rushed to ordering our food.  'Starters were very small about three pieces of pakora each. Chicken tikka came on the plate with a small cup full of rice. Was basically three small pieces of chicken.  'Never been cooked on a sizzler, no onions, sauce looked like gravy and tasted like honey. Dessert came in ice cream and fudge cake that was thinner than a slice of bread (sic).' The customer concluded: 'Absolutely the worst ever Indian restaurant. You only get what you pay for and even at the price felt like a absolute rip off!!!!!' Not impressed with the review, the manager replied: '£3.50 for three courses, have you no shame? 'Judging from the waistline of most of your party I could have served them a whole cow and they would have still left hungry. 'If you wanted the chicken on a sizzler and the rice in a bigger portion or the chocolate cake thick as you, then you should have ordered from the main menu. 'Oh that's right, that would have been too expensive. It's people like you who spoil a good thing for everyone. Don't bother coming back!!' The review and reply were posted to Twitter on Friday and impressed social media users responded in their droves, with one writing: 'Hundred per cent going when I'm up the next couple of weeks. His patter is brilliant.' It's not the first time the restaurant has hit the headlines, as two years ago the then-owner, Waseem Ahmed, came under fire for his scathing replies to TripAdvisor reviews.  It is unclear if Mr Ahmed remains Shimla Cottage's owner - FEMAIL has reached out for comment. Speaking at the time, Mr Ahmed claimed too many customers were able to hold businesses to ransom via TripAdvisor and argued he should be allowed to fight his corner. The head of the family-run Shimla Cottage was equally robust in the way he ran his restaurant, suggesting customers should take no longer than 45 minutes over their £3.50 three-course lunch.  The restaurant, in the town's Sunnyside Street, has been open for 17 years and has an average of four out of five stars on TripAdvisor, based on 705 reviews. Speaking about his approach to customers he said: 'People think they can write anything they want and restaurants will hide under a blanket. 'We admit if we get it wrong and have always apologised when we do, which you can see from other reviews. 'It's a trend for people to just go on these sites and write negative things, yet they were happy enough to eat the food when they're here. 'Some people are downright rude and hostile and think it's right to tarnish someone's business.' 
