food reviews
{ By Matilda Rudd For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:01, 19 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7369961/Vegan-fashion-blogger-slams-300-meal-Italian-restaurant-terrible-customer-service.html }
An Australian fashion blogger has labelled a world-class Italian restaurant as the 'worst dining experience she has ever had' after they ignored her dietary requirements and served 'underwhelming' food for $300. Nicole Warne, who grew on the New South Wales Central Coast, booked the Hotel Grotta Palazzese in Puglia, Italy, three months ago, providing adequate detail about her vegan diet with severe intolerances to gluten, cashew and coconut. But the 29-year-old was left frustrated by staff at the seaside restaurant who told her upon arrival the chef couldn't change the $300 set menu for her or her guest.  'I was conflicted posting this. I am aware there are far worse things happening in the world but I am also aware that many of you look to my account as a travel guide and may book places as a result,' she wrote on Instagram. 'I don't like to be part of any form of negativity but I felt compelled to share my experience after so many of you asked where this place was because you wanted to visit.' Nicole had previously shared a photo of the restaurant, which is set up inside a 300-year-old cave, and the stunning view of the Mediterranean sea it affords.  It is a restaurant located in the historical centre of Polignano a Mare. It is situated on a scenic cliff overlooking the sea, resting on the famous Grotta Palazzese, a cave that hosts the restaurant considered to be among the 10 most exclusive outdoor restaurants in the world. According to their website, it is renovated with elegant refinement, has 15 rooms hanging over the sea in 'complete harmony with the most advanced technological systems'. Many of her 1.7 million social media followers were encouraged to book a spot at the exclusive culinary eatery so she wanted to give a true indication of what it was like. 'For me, this place was the worst dining experience I have ever had,' she said. 'We were so excited a table was available during our dates and even after reading the mixed reviews we decided to try it anyway as we saw it as a once in a lifetime experience. 'I gave them my list of food requirements when I made a reservation three months in advance.' She said when they arrived the view was breathtaking and very 'serene', living up to the things she had read about it online.  'But as soon as we sat down we were told the kitchen had not and could not prepare anything not on the set menu,' she said. 'I am used to not being able to eat most options on a menu but as this was a "fine dining experience" and they asked for my food requirements well in advance, I was frustrated to hear I would still need to pay $180 euros (AUD$294) for the set menu, much of which I could not eat.' The only things she could have were a tiny portion of beans, two slices of vegetables and a fruit plate for dessert, which she didn't end up eating. Her friend meanwhile found it very 'underwhelming' despite the fact she could eat everything on the menu.  'We are no food critics, but this food seemed to fall victim to a fancy restaurant trying to create fancy food but completely missing the mark and offering bizarre and confusing food as a result,' she said. 'For me this place is not worth the money even despite the fantastic view.  'The customer service was terrible and I was further disappointed when the staff and the chef would not acknowledge the situation.' She told her followers they should only book in if they were happy to pay for the scenery because the 'photos will be beautiful'.  'If you're like us and just appreciate good service and delicious food, then I would highly suggest going to a local restaurant and ordering the $15 euro mouthwatering pasta that was easily better than what we found here for twelve times the price,' she said. There were a range of responses to Nicole's honest review, with some people saying they had similar experiences. 'It's a tourist trap for Instagram influencers obsessed with photo opportunities,' one person said. 'I found it exactly the same four years ago. Completely underwhelming. Every time someone says they are going to Polignano al mare I tell them not to go to this restaurant,' another said. A third said: 'What a bunch of garbage! So glad you spoke up'. But not everyone was so accommodating to the 'Tripadvisor-like' analysis Nicole had provided. 'Is all that really necessary? You must know that it paints you into a corner which is less than favourable,' one person said.  'Why bother posting and being negative? Just so you can show the shot? What's the point?' Said another. 'Yeah it is probably a tourist trap, but also, you're probably just mad they didn't let you pay in "influencer Instagram posts,"' Another pointed out. A fourth said: 'You literally have an intolerance to every kind of Italian food ingredient, I don't think this is a fair review.' The post is still up on Nicole's Instagram page and has received 841 comments at the time of publication.  
