{ By Jessica Green For Mailonline   Published:  10:52, 18 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7368449/Paul-Hollywood-suffers-fresh-blow-bakery-demolished.html }
Paul Hollywood has suffered another major blow - with his first bakery demolished to make way for an entrance to Euston Station. The celebrity chef, 53, is in the midst of a bitter breakup with his ex-girlfriend Summer Moneys-Fullam, 24, after attempting to pressurise her into signing a gagging order. And it's now been revealed that the Great British Bake Off star has also been dealing with the disappointment of losing Knead Bakery and Coffee, which was launched at the Central London station in September 2017.  Celebrated as 'an extension of Paul’s deep passion for baking', the bakery was quickly hit by bad reviews upon opening as customers branded the food 'disappointing and expensive'.  The cafe, backed by food service giants SSP, was demolished earlier this year and a new entrance to the station was put in its place.  There is reportedly no plans currently in place to revive Knead Bakery and Coffee in a different location. A source told the Sun on Sunday: 'Paul had high hopes for Knead, so it was a big disappointment when he was told it was permanently closing. 'On paper the renovation was the reason for the closure, but behind the scenes at SSP there has been no drive at all to find a replacement location. 'Despite all the fanfare around Knead’s launch, the reviews were fairly negative from the start.' It was hit by bad reviews just days after opening, with one customer writing on TripAdvisor: 'Very disappointing and we won’t be going back ever.' The final review in December, before the bakery was quietly closed, read: 'Awful raw and cold sausage sandwich. I complained on the website but have received no response.' In March, Euston Station confirmed the changed on Twitter, writing: 'We are punching through the old Paul Hollywood unit to create a new underground entrance.  'We are breathing new life into the existing station over the year to make it easier to get around.’ An SSP spokeswoman told the publication that the HS2 development at the London station meant a number of units were forced to close, adding 'we will consider opportunities to open another Knead with Paul as and when they arise.'  It comes after workers were seen changing over the keypads outside Paul's home in Kent last week, just a few days after the 53-year-old broke up with his former barmaid girlfriend.  The former couple have since become embroiled in a public row after Hollywood accused Ms Monteys-Fullam of trying to sell stories to the press. She then fired back by taking to social media to 'like' a selection of comments criticising her ex, before releasing a statement describing how she felt 'betrayed'. The couple, who were together for 20-months, were also reportedly rowing over who would keep their £35 chicken named Karen in the aftermath of their bitter split.  Summer, 24, took to Instagram on Thursday to give her worried followers an update on the bird, reassuring them she was 'safe and well'.  
