food reviews
{ By Chloe Morgan For Mailonline   Published:  07:47, 18 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7356691/Shoppers-praise-Trinny-Woodalls-game-changer-35-BFF-cream-restocked.html }
An in-demand product which had a waiting list of over 4,000 after it sold out is finally back in stock.    TRINNY LONDON’S BFF Cream in light-medium, which is its most popular shade and retails at £35, has received hundreds of five-star reviews online.   Dubbed the 'ultimate skin protector' and having been out of stock for weeks, make-up enthusiasts have taken to the comments section to praise the hero product, which was launched by style guru Trinny Woodall. ‘Can’t live without it!’ wrote one, while another declared it an 'absolute game changer.'   A third added: ‘Magical – BFF is the most amazing product,’ while another who has previously used the product said they were 'mind-blown!’ Online, the product description claims: 'The cream uses body heat and oxygen to develop the perfect pigmentation for your individual skin tone, creating a flawless, natural glow.' 'Its SPF30 provides a triple threat, from UV rays, pollution and helps prevent hyper-pigmentation, whilst the porcelain flower ingredient helps to boost radiance, tone down redness make light work of dark circles.' The product, which can be worn alone or beneath foundation, comes in five versatile shades, covering a full spectrum of skin tones.  And going by the high praise, it seems that those who have been anticipating the product's return back up its claims. ‘A must in my routine,' penned one, while another declared: 'Awesome - no longer caked in foundation.' A further wrote: 'Love this so much. I have just been on holiday to Spain and wore it by itself every day because of the spf 30 and have a lovely tan. Have just ordered some more - love it so much.'  Other shoppers suggested the make-up product helped to reduce the redness on their skin. 'Really love how this product reduces my redness and gives me such a wonderful glow in seconds,' enthused one. 'I’ve been using it daily for two weeks and I’m sure my skins time has improved.' A further added: 'A product where every drop is worth every penny spend on it! Gone is the redness and unevenness... Hello to fresh looking skin!'  
