{ By Joshua Fox For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:44, 17 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7367737/Margot-Robbie-reveals-bizarre-way-shed-pass-time-moving-Hollywood.html }
Margot Robbie has received rave reviews for her portrayal of the late Sharon Tate in Quentin Tarantino's new movie, Once Upon a Time In... Hollywood.   And during a new interview with Vogue Australia, the 29-year-old revealed she has had a long and unlikely interest in the death of the tragic star. 'After I first moved to LA, another Aussie actor Rhys Wakefield (30) and I used to drive up to Cielo Drive [where she was murdered],' said Margot. The Australian-born star added that the pair would then read Helter Skelter, a book about the infamous murders on Cielo Drive, committed by the Manson Family. 'Seriously, that was our thing. We'd go in the middle of the night and read Helter Skelter out loud to freak ourselves out,' added Margot. Margot was being interviewed by filmmaker Quentin for the feature, who was shocked to discover her somewhat morbid interest with the murders. 'No kidding, really? You never told me this,' he exclaimed, after initially asking Margot what she knew of Sharon before researching for the movie.   Margot responded: 'It wasn't until reading your script that I suddenly went: "Oh my god, I've only ever thought about this woman dead".' The star concluded that it was 'truly a great gift to focus on her life'.  Margot first moved to Los Angeles in 2011 in a bid to make it as a movie star, after appearing on Neighbours as Donna Freedman for three years. Her role as Sharon in the recently released Once Upon a Time In... Hollywood has been praised by the late actress's family - even reducing her sister Debra to tears. 'Actually Margot did an outstanding job,' Debra recently told Kate Garraway during an appearance on Good Morning Britain.  'At one point, when I was on set, I had her in my ear on a mic, and I actually shed a tear because she sounded just like Sharon.  'It was very, very interesting and an opportunity to visit, again, with the live Sharon, not just the Sharon on the film screen.'  
