{ By Tom Place For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:46, 16 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7362519/Meet-Australian-father-owns-one-largest-video-game-collections-WORLD.html }
An Australian father has offered up a glimpse into his incredible video game collection that is one of the biggest in the world. Joel Hopkins, also known as The Last Gamer, owns a collection of thousands of games from the 1970s all the way up to the most recent releases. Mr Hopkins said he started his collection when he was eight years old, and gave himself the goal of owning every single video game ever made. The collection started growing in size when he owned a video game store in the 1990s before he developed an interest in arcade machines. In decades past he has worked for companies such as Microsoft that gave him front row access to the latest games and allowed him to build up his library.  'Whatever I did games came first, I'd put video games in front of myself, food was secondary, everything was secondary,' he said on YouTube. Mr Hopkins owns over 40,000 titles and previously held the record for the largest video game collection in the world according to Guinness World Records. After his record was challenged in 2018 he said the process to preserve his record was simply too time consuming and he resided the the claim to Antonio Romero Monteiro in the U.S with a collection of 20,000. Along with sheer numbers the avid gamer boasts some of the most significant gaming related memorabilia in existence. In his collection is several one-of-one prototypes made by gaming manufacturers including Nintendo's very first console the Famicon system developed in 1982.   Mr Hopkins, now a father to a young son, said there is more to collecting than simply buying everything you can find.  'It's also about doing it smart, not being too stupid, looking for the right thing at the right time,' he said.  Over years his obsession has become so expansive the father has had to knock out walls in his home to build five new rooms expanding to over 75 square metres for his games. 'I set out to create a purpose built library and gaming room but is has grown way past that. It has become a museum,' he said online. 'It is the home to some of the rarest games and arcade machines in the world.' The five rooms include a computer gaming focused room, retro and simulator room, his expansive library, a modern gaming room featuring three TV's for his son, himself and a guest along with an Arcade Room. The father now works creating gaming reviews and sharing his collection with his online audience but says he does not open his house to the public He said owning and creating such an expansive collection takes considerable self sacrifice but his reasons for doing so are quiet simple.   'I love video games and I love arcades,' he said. 'I love the music, the creativity, the history- I love everything about them.'  
