food reviews
{ By Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  10:47, 15 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7356583/Shoppers-rave-brilliant-cushioned-7-backpacks.html }
All parents know what a nerve-wracking time it can be when your baby is starting to toddle around. But now excited shoppers have been raving over adorable cushioned backpacks online that promises to protect a baby's heads if they were to take a tumble. The head and shoulder protectors cost around £7 from a variety of brands on Amazon, and have a host of five star reviews from shoppers.  One called the device 'brilliant' while another deemed it 'irreplaceable', saying: 'Best buy for baby ever, protects from nasty falls on back and head, huge help when you need to do home chores.'  The bag, which comes with adjustable straps, is worn exactly like a rucksack but also has a clever 'pillow' style attachment so as to protect a child's head if they were to take a fall backwards.  The cushioned backpack comes in a variety of colours and animals on the site, including a bumble bee with a beaming face and a lady bird.  It is one of the best-selling products on the site, with shoppers rushing to get their hands on the product.   The backpacks description on the site suggests it is for children between the ages of four to 36 months, with a weight of just 130g.  Shoppers have been left raving about the product, with many taking to Amazon to post a five star review of the adorable plush bag.  One wrote: 'I didn’t think this item would actually exist when I did an amazon search but I was happily surprised to find it! My little boy doesn’t mind wearing it at all, seems comfortable and light. They added: 'The design is fun and colourful too. He kept falling backwards as he’s learning to walk but now this protects the back of his head! Really happy with this product and so cute!'  Another commented: 'Excellent. Stays put when my grandson is moving around. And protects his head.'   One posted: 'Best buy, irreplaceable help. Best buy for baby ever, protects from nasty falls on back and head, huge help when you need to do home chores.'   Another said: 'Cushioned and soft - it was exactly how it was described.' Another commented: 'Good value for money.'   
