{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:48, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/bills/article-7946957/Five-foolproof-tips-spotting-fake-reviews-internet.html }
One of the key ways to find out if a product or service comes recommended or not is to browse through online reviews. Thousands of delighted and disappointed consumers take to the internet every day to rant or rave about an item they've bought or a service they've used. The power and weight these reviews can carry is vast - 93 per cent of people say online reviews influence buying decisions. Negative reviews can make or break a business with a similar number saying an online review has convinced them to avoid a business altogether. Unfortunately, as reviews can hold such sway, this has led to some users playing the system and leaving fake reviews in order to either boost their business or damage another. This is becoming increasingly common. It is estimated that 82 per cent of consumers read a fake review in the last year, according to data from marketing firm Bright Local. Meanwhile, another report by analytical tool FakeSpot claimed that three in five electronics reviews on retail giant Amazon were fake. To help unwitting consumers decide whether a review is a genuine or a fake, This is Money, with the help of Sanity Marketing, has put together five things to look out for: 1. It goes strongly against the other reviews: If a review page is littered with one star reviews complaining about poor quality, it's unlikely that a five star review raving about the business or service or product is genuine. It's also very telling if the review bemoans the other reviews 'I don't know why people have only given one star.'  Who has the time or the invested interest to defend a business online? 2. It's written by a profile with no other reviews: Even worse is if there are tons of unrelated reviews across the country or even world.  People tend to review as a habit or even as a hobby – so a single review seems unlikely to be from a genuine reviewer. It also seems unlikely that someone would review a local bakery in Canada's prairies and then a vegan ice cream shop in London's Soho.  Genuine reviewers tend to review a collection of local places and/or places they find on their travels. 3. It's written by a profile with no photo or details: Typically, reviewers who have the time and inclination to spend time reviewing things online would take the same time and care to create a profile.  If there are no details, it's probably a fake account and therefore a fake review. Equally, if the reviewer is based in a far-off land but reviewing a corner shop in a remote Welsh village – that doesn't seem very plausible. 4. It's poorly written: There are plenty of overseas freelancers and small businesses who offer a 'reviews' service to businesses on freelancer websites – so it's common that English is not their first language and it can show.  Typically it's awkwardly written or there are spelling or grammatical errors.  Of course, that's not to say that business owners or staff themselves, or UK-based freelancers aren't up to no good too but it's a good rule of thumb. 5. It's vague: Some reviews are so vague that they could be relevant to pretty much anything. Reviews like 'this is great' or 'I love this' tend to be fake.  Reviewers leave positive reviews as they had a position experience and felt a connection – that passion tends to follow through in their reviews. This is Money has previously investigated how genuine reviews on Trustpilot are, after claims that businesses are able to delete negative reviews left on their pages. After browsing Trustpilot, the worlds biggest review site, it was noted that there was a stark difference between the average star ratings for some of the most well known high street stores. For example, John Lewis, one of Britain's favourite department stores, only has an average of 1.7 stars on its Trustpilot page out of five, with 70 per cent of customers rating it as bad. Meanwhile, Argos, a high street stalwart better known for its catalogues than perhaps its expertise and customer care, has a much higher average of four-and-a-half stars.  A crucial difference to be considered is that Argos is a paying member of Trustpilot, whilst John Lewis is not.  Whilst Trustpilot say that paying for its service does not enable companies to improve their reviews, delete negative feedback, or get any other unfair edge, a spokesman for the firm said that subscribers, such as Argos, are likely to be actively encouraging all shoppers to leave reviews.  However, investigations have previously looked at the possibility of gaming the system, including research by BBC 5 Live investigations, which found that it was possible to buy a false, five-star recommendation placed on Trustpilot via a Facebook group.   
