food reviews
{ By Carly Stern For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:28, 14 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-7356415/Coca-Cola-bringing-Cinnamon-Coke-fall.html }
A year after it debuted in the UK, Cinnamon Coca-Cola is coming to the US. Cinnamon Coke Zero first hit shelves in the UK in the winter of 2018, and this year it's arriving stateside ahead of the holidays this fall. According to the popular snack food Instagram account Candy Hunting, Coca-Cola is confirmed to be rolling out Cinnamon Coke in the coming months. The new flavor is a mix between citrus and brown spice flavors — and it appears to be the full-sugar version, unlike the one released in the UK. 'Launched in response to the general public’s love of the flavour, the new addition to the Coca-Cola family is bursting full of warming flavours and is guaranteed to get you into the festive spirit as we head into the Christmas season,' the UK press release stated last year. Alec Mellor, Marketing Manager at Coca-Cola Great Britain, said at the time: 'Since launching Coca-Cola zero sugar, we’ve introduced an exciting addition of new flavours to the range.  'For a limited time only, we are excited to announce the launch of Coca-Cola zero sugar Cinnamon, that we hope our current fans and those looking to try a new flavour will love. It’s a drink full of festive flavour and no sugar, perfect for the lead up to Christmas.'  It appears to have been enough of a hit to make a wider debut this season. And it's not the only festive soda that the brand will send to supermarket shelves in the coming months. Candy Hunting also reports that there will be a new limited-edition Winter Spiced Cranberry Sprite flavor. Thrillist confirmed that the drinks will hit shelves September 30 and stick around at least through New Year's.   While some customers are excited about the two new additions, others are a bit skeptical — with several wondering how Winter Spiced Cranberry Sprite will be different from regular Sprite Cranberry. Others are pointing to cinnamon-flavored Pepsi, which came out in 2017 and lasted for just an eight-week run. Pepsi Fire debuted in the summer, and there was also a Pepsi Fire Slurpee at 7-11 — though neither was much of a hit. But Cinnamon Coke at least has some fans in the UK, who have tweeted about the soda.  'It tastes as expected. A bit like having a cinnamon bun while drinking a Coke,' tweeted one.  'The new Christmas Coca Cola Zero with cinnamon is really good. It tastes like full fat coke,' said another. 'Just took a sip of cinnamon coke and it kinda tastes like Christmas in a bottle,' added a third.  'I was expecting the worst, but hot damn Cinnamon Coke Zero actually tastes pretty good,' said yet another Twitter user.  The critics, meanwhile, have described it as 'Christmas flavoured pump wash,' 'drinking a scented candle,' and 'like someone has just stirred a spoon of cinnamon in your coke.'  'Have to say, as a lover of all things cinnamon, I'm not a fan of this Cinnamon flavoured Coca Cola... it just tastes like a bottle of cheap coke... there's no cinnamon in there,' wrote one.  
