food reviews
{ By Rob Waugh   Published:  22:00, 10 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//home/event/article-7336837/Nows-time-join-podcast-revolution.html }
Never mind TV on demand, podcasts are now the hottest thing in broadcasting, with the number of Britons tuning in doubling over the past five years. Six million of us now listen to a podcast each week, according to industry watchdog Ofcom, and that number is steadily rising. So what are podcasts, who makes them and why are they so popular? Podcasts are essentially radio shows you can listen to any time on your PC, mobile phone or a smart speaker, like Amazon’s Alexa. Many are made by journalists or professional broadcasters, but some of the most exciting are by individuals with a real passion and knowledge about their subject. Most podcasts don’t make money. However, some carry adverts or solicit donations from listeners, and high-earning podcasts (such as US comedy Chapo Trap House) can rake in up to £75,000 a month. There are hundreds of thousands to choose from. Here, we’ve curated the best 100 from across a wide range of interests, from gardening to true crime. HOW TO LISTEN Listening to podcasts is easy, whether you do it on a mobile, PC, tablet or smart speaker. On a PC, open your internet browser and search for the name of the podcast. You’ll often find a ‘play’ button directly on the website, or if not a link to a service like iTunes where you can listen to the podcast. On your iPad, iPhone or Android device, you can also search on the web, but it’s simpler to use an app. For Apple devices, the free Podcasts app is a good choice. Install it, then search for the podcast you want. You’ll be able to download episodes and subscribe to podcasts you like. On Android, the Google Podcasts app works in a similar way. You can also listen on Spotify, searching for podcasts in the same way as you search for music. And with a smart speaker, such as Google’s Home, say, ‘OK Google, play the podcast...’ and follow the prompts from there.  FROM HOLLYWOOD TO THE SMALL SCREEN 1. How Did This Get Made? A history of cinematic clangers This hilarious podcast explores some of the worst films ever made, from Catwoman to Leprechaun In The Hood, and poses the question of how on earth they got made in the first place, with contributions from actors, directors and comedians. 218 episodes 2. Kermode and Mayo’s Film Review Taking a sideways look at the movies DJ Simon Mayo and film critic Mark Kermode (see here) offer a wry perspective on the week’s crop of films, with recommendations on what to watch (and what to avoid at all costs). Guests include Tom Hanks and Chiwetel Ejiofor. 213 episodes 3. Poda Bing Keeping the much-loved Mafia show alive Fans of The Sopranos are amply catered for in the world of podcasts (if this one doesn’t tickle your fancy, try Cut To Black: A Sopranos Sitdown). Each episode of Poda Bing focuses on just one episode of the TV classic and deep dives into the accompanying facts, figures and trivia, all ably aided and abetted by guests including actors and writers from the show. 89 episodes 4. Chernobyl Fascinating companion to the hit TV show The creators of the excellent TV series explore the facts behind the drama, revealing in detail how the show built on the real history, what sources the writers used, and the chilling truth behind the explosion at the nuclear plant in 1986. Five episodes 5. David Tennant Does A Podcast With… Revealing chat – and plenty of laughs The actor (top) turns interviewer for his own podcast, with celebrity guests ranging from Michael Sheen to James Corden and former PM (and fellow Scot) Gordon Brown. The chat is unguarded, pithy and often hilarious. 15 episodes   SMART LISTENING 6. Dan Snow’s History Hit Brings the past back to life Dan Snow’s podcast features interviews with historical figures (including one of the last English-speaking survivors of the Hiroshima bombing) and has rapidly become Britain’s most successful history podcast, with a million listens every month. 520 episodes 7. SpyCast All about espionage The International Spy Museum’s podcast offers fascinating interviews with real-life figures from the world of espionage, covering everything from nuclear weapons in North Korea to the mysterious Area 51 military base in America. 382 episodes 8. Something Rhymes With Purple Wild wordplay from the Countdown crew Crossword fiends and dictionary wranglers head this way: this podcast from Countdown’s word queen Susie Dent and Gyles Brandreth goes through the origins of words (including the fact that Starbucks comes from Moby-Dick) in a chatty, good-humoured way. 20 episodes 9. Making Sense Seeking answers to the big questions Will we destroy the world? What do jihadists really want? Is liberalism on the verge of collapse? Author and neuroscientist Sam Harris discusses the big questions in a fascinating podcast with a weighty guest list that includes author Jared Diamond, comedian Ricky Gervais and controversial academic Jordan Peterson. 163 episodes 10. Philosophize This! A guide to the giants of philosophy Ever wanted to be able to confidently name-drop philosophers from Sigmund Freud to Michel Foucault? This intimate podcast is a great way to get a handle on what the great thinkers were, well, thinking. Host Steven West gives a witty insight into a new one each week. 133 episodes 11. British History Podcast The past through the eyes of our ancestors It’s by an American, but this podcast offers an incredibly detailed perspective on British history (it’s currently wending its way through the Dark Ages, from Edgar to Aethelred), with a focus on what ordinary life was like (rather than the usual battles and generals). 333 episodes 12. Ways To Change The World Going beyond the headlines Channel 4’s Krishnan Guru-Murthy and a guest – everyone from Rachel Riley to Michael Heseltine – discuss the issues of the day. 60 episodes 13. 99% Invisible A deep dive into architecture and design This is about all the thought that goes into the things we don’t think about – the unnoticed architecture and design that shape our world. From Buddha statues to Gaudi churches, it’s always a thought-provoking listen. 395 episodes 14. The Tip Off The best of British investigative journalism Stories with the potential to change our lives (but which often get ignored) get an in-depth airing in this podcast sponsored by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism. From antibiotic resistance to death row cases, it’s usually serious but a great listen. 35 episodes   SIDE-SPLITTING FUN 15. Rule Of Three  What the funnymen find funny  Comedians talk about the comedy that inspired them, including throwbacks to classic material by the likes of Kenny Everett. With guests including Dara O Briain, Charlie Brooker and Phill Jupitus, it offers an interesting perspective on what makes comics laugh. 44 episodes  16. Those Conspiracy Guys  Investigating wild mysteries and weird truths  This Irish comedy podcast takes a light-hearted look at everything from alien abductions to the JFK assassination, with a dash of true crime thrown in. If you’ve ever wondered just what the CIA really gets up to – or whether vampires exist – this is a good-humoured way to explore the rumours. 130 episodes  17. The Frank Skinner Show  Effortless comedy banter  It’s no surprise the award-winning Frank Skinner Show has a podcast, and it’s equally no surprise that it’s great, with a relaxed, chatty feel – he’s joined by Absolute Radio show regulars Emily Dean and comic Alun Cochrane – and plenty of Skinner’s turbocharged humour. 100 episodes  18. The Richard Herring Podcast  Cosy chats with comedians Comedian Richard Herring came to podcasting early, and his offering is still a delight, with chats featuring guests from Matt Lucas to Adrian Chiles. The interviews are cosy and always amusing, leaving you wondering why Herring isn’t on our screens more often. 221 episodes  19. No Such Thing As A Fish  The QI team sifts fact from fiction  Did a researcher really conclude, after a lifetime of studying sea life, that there was no such thing as a fish? It’s one of the delightfully batty questions debated on this show, where the researchers behind the show QI each bring a favourite ‘fact’ to the studio to discuss. 279 episodes  20. The Adam Buxton Podcast  Surreal humour with stellar guests Comedian Adam Buxton is a stalwart of TV panel shows (including QI and Eight Out Of Ten Cats), and in this podcast he pulls in a weighty list of comedy talent from Bob Mortimer to Louis Theroux, all liberally salted with his trademark surreal humour. 101 episodes  21. The Ron Burgundy Podcast  The return of Anchorman Fans of the incredibly quotable Will Ferrell comedy Anchorman (‘60 per cent of the time, it works all the time’) will be in heaven with this podcast, where Ferrell returns to the role for a podcast supposedly hosted by the fictional anchorman himself. 16 episodes  22. Answer Me This  Comical question time Can you make eggs Benedict in a microwave – and were Joseph and Mary married? This hit letters-page podcast is presented by comics Helen Zaltzman and Olly Mann, who attempt to keep straight-ish faces as they answer some truly bizarre questions from listeners around the world. 375 episodes    ROCK ON 23. The Great Albums What makes a truly great album? Two rock musicians take an in-depth look at some of the most popular albums of all time, from Aretha Franklin’s I Never Loved A Man The Way I Love You to Radiohead’s OK Computer, and analyse what makes them so good, with track-by-track reviews. There’s five years’ worth of content to enjoy. 359 episodes 24. Stay Free – The Story Of The Clash A rock biography in podcast form A must-listen for anyone vaguely interested in the iconic punk band. ‘Would you incite an audience to riot?’ an interviewer asks. ‘Of course, we do it every night.’ Eight episodes 25. Digging Deep With Robert Plant A stairway to Led Zeppelin’s songs It’s not quite a new Led Zep tour, but frontman Robert Plant’s podcast offers a great insight into his work, with the singer analysing tracks from his sprawling back catalogue and explaining how they came about. Six episodes 26. David Walliams’ Marvellous Musical Podcast A musical journey of discovery Not content with ruling the world of children’s books, David Walliams also makes this superb classical-themed music podcast, where he takes an often amusing tour through the works and biographies of composers from Clara Schumann to John Williams. It’s aimed at ages one to 100, so listen with the kids. Ten episodes 27. Aria Code Exploring opera’s most famous arias Every week, the musicians behind the Aria Code ‘pull apart one moment from an opera’ in a forensic examination of opera’s best arias, from Rigoletto to the The Magic Flute. 12 episodes 28. Barbican Podcast A celebration of all things classical The Barbican Centre’s Classical Music podcast (one of several it produces) takes an in-depth look at composers, with host Edward Sackerson joined by conductors to explore the themes of some of classical music’s greats. 53 episodes 29. Song Exploder The minutiae of the biggest hits One of the things podcasts do best is offer ultra-detailed breakdowns on a subject, and this podcast invites musicians to explain their biggest hits. There’s Fleetwood Mac on Go Your Own Way, KT Tunstall on Suddenly I See, and many more...164 episodes  A FEW TASTY MORSELS 30. Simple Pleasures With Yotam Ottolenghi The master chef invites star guests for dinner This back-to-basics cookery podcast sees Yotam Ottolenghi welcoming guests to his home (you actually hear the doorbell ring) and chatting over food in a natural, free and unedited fashion. Guests have included everyone from Nigella Lawson to Michael Palin. Seven episodes 31. Desert Island Dishes The meals of a lifetime Chef Maggie Nomura explores people’s personal experiences with food, welcoming a weekly guest to discuss the dishes that shaped their lives, including their first food memory, favourite meal of all time and the meal they would choose before going to a desert island. 90 episodes 32. A Glass With... Fine wine and fine company Event magazine’s Olly Smith drinks with the stars in this sparkling podcast with guests from the world of food and wine, such as Marco Pierre White, and celebrities including author Ben Macintyre and Blur guitarist-turned-cheese-wrangler Alex James. 38 episodes 33. Table Manners With Jessie Ware Come dine with the singer Another intimate food podcast, this time broadcast direct from Jessie Ware’s dinner table, with guests including Raymond Blanc, Richard Curtis and Neneh Cherry – the chat often strays onto topics as varied as pet tortoises and the ethics of eating hot dogs in the cinema. 57 episodes  LIVE LIFE TO THE FULL 34. Deliciously Ella Where health, food and fashion all meet Food writer and entrepreneur Ella Mills discusses a wide variety of topics with guests, from how to give up alcohol to how to change your mood with food. Guests including Livia Firth (wife of actor Colin) discuss weighty issues such as how to make the fashion industry sustainable. 38 episodes 35. Feel Better, Live More Britain’s most popular health podcast – just what the doctor ordered In this hit podcast, Dr Rangan Chatterjee and an expert guest look at issues from gut health to stress and sleep, and how you can improve yours. It’s Britain’s most popular health-themed podcast. 71 episodes 36. Sleep With Me Bedtime chatter to help grown-ups fall asleep This podcast has assumed near-legendary status: it’s basically designed to be boring, with long, meandering stories narrated in a deep, droning voice. Sleep With Me was created by library worker Drew Ackerman, who mixes made-up stories, lasting up to two hours with TV recaps, some of which are subtitled Game Of Drones. 792 episodes 37. Happy Place Fearne Cotton’s podcast of positivity With guests including Mary Berry, Davina McCall and Ruby Wax, Fearne Cotton’s podcast focuses on what makes people happy, with Fearne and co discussing what happiness means to them each week. It’s now spawned its own festival, which launched this summer. 37 episodes 39. The Goop Podcast Gwyneth Paltrow’s guide to wellness Whatever you think of Gwyneth Paltrow’s online shop for all things oddball and alternative, the podcast is actually a varied and interesting listen, with guests such as author Priya Parker offering tips on how to make a splash in a crowd (and, of course, Gwyneth’s tips on ‘non-toxic beauty’). 116 episodes 40. Grief Cast Making loss and grief a little bit lighter It sounds like terribly hard work but Cariad Lloyd’s podcast focusing on grief is actually a fascinating and often hilarious listen, with guests from Robert Webb to David Baddiel offering a perspective on loss. The Adam Buxton episode is a must-listen. 90 episodes WOMEN ON TOP 41. A Podcast Of One’s Own Helping women to reach leadership positions Julia Gillard, the former Australian prime minister, talks to guests from the worlds of entertainment (including Kathy Lette and Sandi Toksvig), business and sport to discuss how to get more women in positions of influence. Five episodes 42. Where Should We Begin? Couple therapy If you’ve ever wondered what it would be like to sit in on someone else’s marriage counselling sessions, this podcast is exactly that (albeit done in a fairly serious and respectful way). Therapist Esther Perel hears anonymous couples discussing issues from infidelity to sexlessness. 20 episodes 43. Is It Just Me? The weird and the wonderful You magazine editor Jo Elvin debates the trivial (but important) problems of the modern world, from email signatures to not really understanding Marvel films with co-host James Williams and celebrity guests from Celia Imrie to Richard E Grant. 146 episodes 44. The History Chicks Celebrating women in history This podcast presented by Beckett Graham and Susan Vollenwender explores the neglected stories of women in history, from the obvious choices such as Joan of Arc through to less well-known tales like that of Elizebeth Smith Friedman, America’s first female cryptanalyst. 131 episodes 45. White Wine Question Time A booze-fuelled celebration of friendship The set-up for this one is simple: three questions, three glasses (or sometimes bottles) of wine. It’s presented by Kate Thornton, with guests including Sarah Parish, Nicola Stephenson and Angela Griffin. The wine-fuelled discussions can (understandably) get very passionate indeed. 29 episodes 46. Oprah’s SuperSoul Conversations Self-help tips from the queen of chat Chat-show queen Oprah Winfrey hand-picks interviews from her lengthy broadcasting career for this podcast, focusing on the self-improvement side rather than celebrity, with interviews with authors, health experts and wellness gurus. 277 episodes  38. How To Fail With Elizabeth Day  A celebration of setbacks You magazine writer Elizabeth Day (above) talks to celebrities such as Emeli Sandé about moments in their life when they felt they failed (Sandé, for instance, opens up about the breakdown of her marriage). Guests such as Fleabag’s Phoebe Waller-Bridge (above, right) reveal why, even in the midst of success, people can feel like they are failing. 41 episodes   BLIND YOURSELF WITH SCIENCE 47. Freakonomics Exploring the ‘hidden sides of everything’ Is the right for women to have abortions linked to a drop in crime decades later (due to the lack of ‘unwanted’ children)? It’s a controversial idea, one of many discussed in this fascinating podcast hosted by Freakonomics co-author Stephen J Dubner. 385 episodes 48. Science Versus Debunking science myths Are sharks really man-eating predators… or are they seriously misunderstood? This intriguing science podcast takes on myths that many of us believe in, via interviews with scientists (and a man who actually punched a Great White in the face). 84 episodes 49. The Infinite Monkey Cage A comedic chat about science Can science be fun? Host Brian Cox and his guests certainly have a good go at persuading us in a podcast that explores the big questions in science (such as ‘How do we measure the universe?’) with guests including scientists and comedian Jo Brand. 121 episodes 50. TED Talks Daily Motivational talks with big ideas Turn your commute into a learning experience with this collection of weird and wonderful free, online speeches, often on science subjects, from experts in the field. From artificial intelligence to zoology, this podcast delivers a fascinating listen every weekday. 296 episodes 51. 13 Minutes To The Moon Experience the Moon landing in real time In meticulous detail, this podcast highlights the extraordinary achievement of the Apollo mission. Includes interviews with Nasa veterans and culminates with a real-time Moon landing as you listen into the radio loop between Mission Control and the men in space. 16 episodes 52. The Mission Daily Learn something new every day Interested in technology? This podcast aims to help listeners learn a new thing every day, with input from business leaders and authors such. From environmentalism to new business ideas, it’s always an interesting listen. 302 episodes 53. The Flat Earth Podcast Two believers state their case Is the Earth really some sort of magic pancake floating in space? Of course it isn’t, but if you’ve ever wanted to understand the bizarre new online cult of YouTube-inspired Flat Earthers, this podcast is a good place to start. 41 episodes  BEYOND THE NEWS 54. Nick Robinson’s Political Thinking Heavyweight political interviews The veteran political journalist attracts big-name guests on his podcast, from Philip Hammond discussing the upside of being dull, to Michael Gove talking about his humble beginnings as an adopted child in Aberdeen. 102 episodes 55. The Intelligence Podcast Daily news, dissected The Economist’s daily podcast takes only 20 minutes, but offers an in-depth look at big stories such as the resignation of Sir Kim Darroch, using studio guests and news broadcast soundbites to examine what the stories really mean. With input from talking heads, Westminster insiders and analysts. 131 episodes 56. Brexitcast Inside the Brexit rumour mill Full and frank discussions on the big Brexit stories with a chatty, slightly cheeky panel of BBC experts including Laura Kuenssberg and Katya Adler. 132 episodes 57. The Daily Hard-hitting news analysis The New York Times’s high-gloss daily podcast offers a rapid-fire, well-produced perspective on the news, from Donald Trump’s immigration raids to whether gun-makers could be held accountable for mass shootings. Consistently hard-hitting. 652 episodes 58. The Week Unwrapped Quirky news you might have missed This weekly news summary from The Week magazine ducks the obvious headlines and instead focuses on stories such as how Google Maps acquired a Nigerian accent and the politics of homeopathy. 133 episodes 59. The Dropout Elizabeth Holmes’ rise and fall Just how did Elizabeth Holmes rise to become the youngest-ever self-made female billionaire – then lose it all in an instant? This award-winning podcast explores the rise of billion-dollar health start-up Theranos – and the slow process of how doubt about its technology seeped in. Seven episodes 60. Caliphate A quest to understand ISIS This often-harrowing podcast tells the story of the rise and fall of Isis via interviews with eye-witnesses and Isis prisoners – including one man who took part in executions in the so-called caliphate. 11 episodes MONEY TALKS 61. This is Money Weekly finance show The Mail’s own finance website, it’s editor, Simon Lambert, and guests discuss the big issues in personal finance every week, with topics including the Neil Woodford investment crisis and practical advice, such as whether swapping your home is a good idea, and whether it’s possible to save the planet while making lots of cash from your savings. 270 episodes 62. We Study Billionaires The stories behind the successes You get exactly what it says on the tin with this podcast, which examines the wealth of self-made investors and business magnates, including Michael Bloomberg, and helps ordinary investors understand what makes the ‘big guys’ so prosperous. Other episodes discuss issues such as how much Facebook is really worth. 253 episodes 63. Business Wars The biggest company battles Netflix versus Blockbuster, Ferrari versus Lamborghini, McDonald’s versus Burger King: they’re the corporate conflicts that define our lives (or at least define the products and shops around us). This fascinating podcast delves deep into each conflict, focusing on how business rivals battled each other and where it all went wrong for the losers. 146 episodes 64. The Business Deals and skulduggery in La-La Land Hollywood Reporter editor-at-large Kim Masters pulls back the curtain on the business side of Hollywood with insightful reports on celebrity moves, big-money deals, awards and more. 25 episodes 65. Work Like A Woman By Mary Portas How to transform the workplace The Queen of Shops is on a mission to place kindness at the heart of business. Guests such as Greggs boss Roger Whiteside keep the discussions lively. Nine episodes SO GOOD ITS CRIMINAL   66. Serial The saga that spawned a genre Debuting in 2014, Serial is a worldwide hit and the podcast that arguably started the recent true-crime phenomenon. Over multiple episodes, Serial sifts through vast amounts of evidence in a ‘cold case’ murder. The first series concerned Adnan Syed, a man found guilty of murdering his girlfriend, and was instrumental in getting the case reopened and sent back to court. 36 episodes 67. Sword And Scale Real crime stories Each episode focuses on a different true-crime story, such as the tale of woman picked up by a driver who went suddenly berserk. Her report wasn’t believed, but she later discovered he was in fact a prolific serial killer. A compelling (if often gruesome) listen. 142 episodes 68. Shreds: Murder In The Dock The Cardiff Five scandal Harrowing interviews from men who were wrongly convicted in one of Britain’s most notorious miscarriages of justice form the backbone of this excellent BBC true-crime podcast, which details the trial of the ‘Cardiff Five’ in the wake of the murder of Lynette White in 1988. 13 episodes 69. They Walk Among Us Reviving UK crime stories This well-researched British true-crime podcast revisits some of the most notorious murder cases of the past 50 years including the Kiln Lane murder of 2008 and the case of James Hanratty, one of the last men hanged in the UK, whose relatives questioned his guilt… until DNA proved it beyond doubt years later. 108 episodes 70. Red Handed True crimes that will make your blood run cold From the moment the over-the-top theme music kicks in, you know you’re in for a serious dose of the macabre, and this true-crime podcast doesn’t disappoint, with two female presenters recounting grim stories such as the tale of the Crossbow Cannibal. 106 episodes 71. And That’s Why We Drink Murder meets the paranormal A surprisingly cheery podcast that combines grim true-crime stories with a healthy dose of the paranormal, delving into bizarre tales of UFO sightings and the use of human ash as fertiliser. 163 episodes  TALES OF THE UNEXPECTED 72. Backlisted Bringing new life to old books This excellent literary podcast from DIY publisher Unbound revisits classic novels such as A Journal Of The Plague Year by Daniel Defoe or Dickens’s Great Expectations, with guests explaining why classics have stood the test of time (along with more general literary gossip). 97 episodes 73. You’re Booked What the writers read Author Daisy Buchanan visits the homes of celebrities from Helen Lederer to Deborah Moggach and snoops on their bookshelves. 33 episodes 74. A Good Read Celebrities on their greatest reads Host Harriett Gilbert talks to celebrities including author Margaret Atwood and actress Anne Marie Duff about their favourite novels of all time in this weekly podcast. 486 episodes 75. Myths And Legends Retelling stories that have shaped cultures Explore the world of myths and legends (and go well beyond the usual goblins and fairies) in this world-spanning podcast, which features everything from strange Japanese tales of demons to the origins of stories such as King Arthur and Aladdin. 215 episodes 76. Cults A history of cults This podcast tells the stories of cults and the dubious characters behind them – from the rise of self-declared ‘black Messiah’ Hulon Mitchell to the cult-like organisation around Ponzi fraudster Bernie Madoff. 31 episodes 77. Marvel’s Wolverine Comic-book capers Sounding like a comic book come to life, this story-book podcast stars Richard Armitage as Marvel’s hirsute, knife-knuckled superhero in a grimly atmospheric tale punctuated by lots of sound effects and music. Great for teenagers (or older geeks). 18 episodes 78. Welcome To Night Vale A journey into the surreal Podcasts don’t come much more surreal than this: it’s a bi-monthly news magazine from a completely non-existent American desert town, where very, very strange things happen as a matter of routine, such as summoning a puppy from hell. Bizarre but brilliant. 151 episodes  GAME, SET AND MATCH 79. Tailenders Cricket chat, with a touch of spin Another of those podcasts that doesn’t take itself too seriously, BBC 5 Live’s Tailenders is a cricket podcast, but with plenty of time for jokes and rambling chat about just about anything else. It’s hosted by DJ Greg James, cricketer Jimmy Anderson and musician Felix White. 25 episodes 80. TIFO Football Game stats galore Football nerds will be in heaven with this stat-heavy podcast where researchers analyse team performance and transfers in depth, often looking at the performance of a single side in each episode. 127 episodes 81. EggChasers Rugby Podcast Rugby chat, straight from the clubhouse Plenty of gossip, stats and rugby banter in this podcast where presenter Tim Cocker and rugby fans JB and Phil put a lively and light-hearted spin on the week’s rugby news. 396 episodes 82. Athletico Mince Football has never been so funny Nominally a podcast about the beautiful game, the comic genius of Bob Mortimer and co-host Andy Dawson has ensured this has morphed into something far, far funnier. 87 episodes 83. That Peter Crouch Podcast Guide to life as a pro-footballer The tall striker’s podcast has quickly gained a reputation for funny, informal chats with guests who try to stay roughly on topic. It’s now in its second season and has also spawned its own live event, Crouchfest. 58 episodes 84. F1 Beyond The Grid Interviews with the biggest names in F1 F1 journalist Tom Clarkson interviews the titans of F1 past and present, including Damon Hill, Alan Jones and Jean Alesi. The Kimi Raikkonen episode features the longest chat you’ve probably ever heard from the notoriously tight-lipped Finn. 52 episodes 85. NHS Couch To 5K A simple running plan for beginners This beginner’s running podcast starts you off very, very slowly with 60-second runs and 90-second recovery periods, all with spoken instructions and suitably inspirational music. There are nine episodes, designed to be consumed over the course of nine weeks, at the end of which you’ll run your first 5k. Nine episodes 86. The Cycling Podcast Inside the world of road racing Focused heavily on the ‘serious’ end of the sport, with in-depth coverage of races right across the cycling calendar, from the Tour De France to the world championships, and a warts-and-all perspective on the big names in the sport. 400 episodes 87. The Tennis Podcast Serves up an ace This wildly popular podcast has been downloaded more than six million times. It’s a mix of chat, big-name guests – from Andy Murray to Martina Navratilova – and is updated daily at Grand Slam tournaments. It’s presented by BBC 5 Live commentator David Law and Eurosport presenter Catherine Whitaker. 573 episodes 88. The Cut Fore! Your weekly guide to golf The BBC’s golf podcast is a treasure trove of interviews with top talent, gossip and perspectives on the week’s action, with Iain Carter and Andrew Cotter. 58 episodes  DOING IT FOR THE KIDS 89. CBeebies Radio Send them off to bed with this If you’re rationing screen time, occupy little ones with this mix of stories, music and recognisable characters. Also great for listening to in the car. 30 episodes 90. Science Adventure Stories For Kids Fact-filled fun science adventures Expect funny voices and sound effects galore in this science story time narrated by Simon The Fact Finding Frog. Simon visits exotic locations and reveals nuggets of info that your little ones will annoy you with for weeks. 27 episodes 91. Fun Kids Science Weekly Making sense of new technology Children aged ten to 12 will lap up this podcast, which covers the big science stories from the age of dinosaurs to space exploration and everything in between. 100 episodes 92. Maybe Baby Thinking of starting a family? Listen to this first ‘We’ve given birth to a podcast,’ says Kate Lawler in Maybe Baby, which tackles the uncomfortable subject of whether or not to have a child. Kate and her boyfriend talk fearlessly through everything from conception to not wanting a baby in the first place. Two episodes 93. Don’t Tell Your Mum Dads discuss the big parenting issues Being a dad is a complicated business, and this podcast (with the co-founder of Dadsnet) gets straight to the important questions, such as which is the one true barbecue – charcoal or gas. Celebrity guests including Richard Curtis keep the laughs coming. 12 episodes  COME FLY WITH ME 94. Betty In The Sky With A Suitcase Confessions of a flight attendant This hit travel podcast has spawned books and audio books and features the confessions and gossip of flight attendants, including tales of bizarre happenings at 35,000 feet and the most unruly passengers. Hilarious. 166 episodes 95. Extra Pack Of Peanuts Thrifty travel tips This travel podcast focuses on how to save money while travelling the globe, with episodes on everything from the best ice cream in the world to what you should do in destinations such as Bulgaria and Africa. Presented by married couple Travis and Heather Sherry, it’s enthusiastic, fun and genuinely useful. 380 episodes 96. The Rough Guide To Everywhere Travelling beyond the usual tourist spots Excellent travel podcast presented by British Rough Guides editor Aimee White, taking in trips to a town in America where mobile phones and microwaves are banned due to the presence of a huge radio telescope, and the strange, haunting music of Swedish cow-calling (yes, it’s a thing). 34 episodes 97. The Well-Travelled Life The man who’s been everywhere Traveller and blogger Gary Arndt (a former tech business owner turned traveller who has visited 130 countries) discusses everything from how to create the perfect travel itinerary to the military history of Africa in this erudite, interesting podcast, which features a different guest each week. 46 episodes BLOOMIN' BRILLIANT 98. The RHS Gardening Podcast Practical advice for the green-fingered Gardening pros offer seasonal tips in this podcast, which is often presented from gardening shows, and features questions on hanging baskets, growing vegetables and pesticides, among many others. 184 episodes 99. The PlantAdvice Gardening Podcast Ways to help your garden grow Interviews with gardening professionals and enthusiasts help to bring this British gardening podcast to life. It’s packed with practical advice on how to get the most out of your garden – and interesting perspectives from passionate professionals. 37 episodes 100. The Plant-Based Podcast Food, flowers, plant-based clothes and more From how plants can help our mental health to how the perfect rose is selected, this fascinating podcast goes far beyond the usual tips on how to get the most out of your garden. It even explores ‘the tasty world of edible flowers’. 18 episodes                        
