food reviews
{ By Kelby Vera For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:37, 8 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7339043/Shia-LeBeouf-plays-father-explosive-official-trailer-Honey-Boy.html }
Shia LaBeouf is reliving his own life through the new film Honey Boy. The actor-turned-screenwriter escorted audiences through his life story in the official NSFW redband trailer that came out Wednesday. But instead of playing himself, the 33-year-old artist turned the tables by playing his very own father in director Alma Har'el's feature-length debut, which will stream on Amazon. The clip opens ominously, showing a soldier being blown into smithereens. But it turns out the whole thing is just a scene being filmed for the lead character Otis' latest movie. The sounds of Skee-Lo's 1995 track I wish spurs on more action as a clapper with 2005 snaps in front of the screen. Then the leading man gets caught in a car crash but instead of being shuttled to the safety of a hospital afterwards, he's taken into custody by police. 'What am I being arrested for?' the 20-something Otis, played by Lucas Hedges, yells while being cuffed and frisked. 'You think you're f***ing hot sh**, because you don't know how good I am at what I do,' the actor screams from the backseat of the cop car. The real Shia demonstrates those skills as he steps into frame as his very own father. Flashing back to his childhood days, the young actor (played by Noah Jupe) stands in front of a black background while being pelted with a pie. The scene pivots to LaBeouf himself giving the young version of himself a harsh pep talk. Though hard to recognize, the receding hairline, wrinkels and retro glasses couldn't mask Shia's dark charisma. 'Think it through, what's your mother got a job for?' he demands instead of asks. 'Just in case,' the preteen responds. 'In case what?' his dad asks rhetorically before bluntly telling the young man, 'In case you fail! In case it don't work out.' Things flash to the present, where the troubled Honey Boy tells someone 'I don't need to talk about my f***ing dad. 'My dad's not the reason I drink. My dad's the reason I work,' he explains. It's then when viewers get their first look at Shia as his dad, who tells his son: 'I pump you full of strength, because we're a team and I know you've got what it takes.' After deriding his mom, the former Disney star tells his likeness: 'You're a f***ing star and I know it. That's why I'm here. I'm your cheerleader, Honey Boy.'  Young Otis gets paired with Shia's former flame FKA Twigs in another scene.   He appears to be living the high life, wearing a fur coat and getting his shoulders rubbed by a footman while sitting in front of a spread of food in another cut.  Then things switch back to close quarters with his father, who berates his offspring after being told he has 'good instincts.' 'I have good instincts? I have rodeo clown instincts, so I could never make it in Hollywood.' 'You could if you started when I did,' Jupe's character weeps. The trailer is interspersed with stellar reviews. 'I've never seen a film quite like Honey boy,' Collider wrote, while RogerEbert.com called it a 'Cinematic act of courage.' 'Nothing short of miraculous,' raved The Wrap. 'One of the most cathartic films I've ever seen,' wrote Slash Film. Honeyboy premieres November 8 in the US and Canada, with European release dates forthcoming. 
