food reviews
{ By Danielle Zoellner For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:57, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7962253/Longhorn-Steakhouse-changes-Shirley-Temple-recipe-negative-review.html }
Longhorn Steakhouse has changed its Shirley Temple drink recipe following a lackluster review from a six-year-old who nicknamed himself the Shirley Temple King.  Leo Kelly from Connecticut gained attention in the form of more than 200,000 Instagram followers for his brutally honest reviews of Shirley Temple drinks whenever he's out at a restaurant.  In September, her visited Longhorn Steakhouse and reviewed its version of the cherry-topped beverage, and the review has since inspired change for the chain restaurant.  'First of all, this is the biggest Shirley Temple I’ve ever seen in my life,' Leo told the camera, adding: 'So, that’s good news. The bad news is to say, no there are cherries.' Leo then gave the drink a score of five, one of his lowest, after taking a sip.  Longhorn Steakhouse revealed in a tweet they later 'made it up to the King' following his lackluster review of the Shirley Temple drink.  The restaurant later revealed on social media that it re-did its Shirley Temple recipe to the Shirley Temple King's liking.  'Introducing our new Shirley Temple recipe, fit for “The King,"' the restaurant wrote on Instagram while sharing a picture of the beverage.  The picture shows three maraschino cherries resting at the bottom of the glass with another two speared in a pick at the top of the drink. Leo's main criticism of the beverage was it lacked of cherries, so the restaurant made sure to fix the problem when recreating the drink.   According to People, Leo only had about 300 followers on Instagram earlier this week after months of posting brutally honest reviews at different restaurants.  His following has since grown to over 200,000 followers from the Longhorn Steakhouse review getting shared on Twitter.  Another review from Leo came from when he visited visited Hoodoo Brown BBQ in Ridgefield, Connecticut.  The drink was his highest review to date, a 9.5/10, due to the Shirley Temple boasting three cherries in the cup and two on the lid. Leo also appreciated the added American flag on the cup.  People's food editor Shay Spence helped inform people about the Shirley Temple King, writing on Twitter: 'Just found this Instagram account that’s a kid who calls himself the Shirley Temple King and goes to restaurants and gives brutally honest reviews of their shirley temples. it’s so pure and I love him so much.'  This encouraged Chrissy Teigen to comment on the young star and his niche content.  'He bout to get paiiiiid,' she wrote.  Other commenters thought the child 'needed to be protected at all costs'. Another Twitter user joked: 'Imagine being the bartender and seeing this small fry come in... And knowing what was about to happen.'  Since Leo is only six years old, the Instagram account showing all of his Shirley Temple reviews is run by his parents, Tom and Lisa Kelly.  They told People the idea for Leo to review Shirley Temples at each restaurant came from the child and his love for the drink.  'He’s been ordering Shirley Temples from the age of three and always commented on them,' Tom said. 'We were on vacation at Gurney’s in Newport, Rhode Island, when Leo ordered a Shirley Temple at the pool and said "Dad I think I have an idea"…and the rest is history.'   Leo's ideal Shirley Temple includes 'three to four ice cubes, glass cup, a whole can of ginger ale, just enough grenadine, three cherries and an extra-long straw.'   
