food reviews
{ By Max Winters For Mailonline   Published:  12:39, 8 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7337161/Furious-Chelsea-fans-bombard-David-Luizs-Italian-restaurant-one-star-reviews.html }
Chelsea fans have vented their frustration at David Luiz's controversial move to Arsenal by bombarding the Brazilian's restaurant with abysmal reviews. The defender is making a shock switch across London to the Emirates with Luiz set to conclude a £7million switch on transfer deadline day. Furious at being ditched for one of their fiercest rivals, Chelsea fans have reacted to the new by sabotaging Luiz's Italian eatery Babbo, in Mayfair. Located in the heart of Mayfair, disgruntled Blues supporters were very quick to damage the restaurant's reputation on TripAdvisor.  Hinting at how Luiz will be viewed at Stamford Bridge in future, one reviewer wrote: 'One of the worst places I have ever been to. A visit ruined by poor service, and horrible food was made worse when a big RAT came out of the kitchen. I shall not be returning to, or recommending this rat-infested place. ' Another made a jibe at Luiz's trademark hair, claiming: 'The plate came with a curly hair in my food, and appeared to be rat droppings on the floor... Would not recommend to anyone. I have reported the restaurant to the relevant authorities'. Chelsea and Brazil team-mate Willian is also involved in the ownership of the restaurant and one fan aimed a dig at both players. It read: 'The food is quite average for the prices. The service is pretty slow, the waiter was rude and the two owners stopped by our table and both were quite annoying. There are about 100 places better in London.' The venue also got panned on Google Reviews. One piece of feedback read: 'Terrible food in which I found a long, greasy, curly piece of hair in my food. I also requested the owner on the Thursday I went there I was told he wasn’t available..what a shame... 'I was also greeted with a rat when I entered the restaurant in which made me question why they had told me he was away. The snake painted on the wall also really put me off.' One reviewer posing as Chelsea Frank Lampard added: 'I found the food overrated and overpriced. Not as good as it used to be. I suggested to the waiter that the pasta I had was the fourth best one I’ve ever had. He started complaining at me. 'I told him the restaurant would need to improve in order to prove to me that I should select it in my top two regular Italian haunts over the season. The waiter complained again and said he was moving the restaurant to Holloway, North London. I said fine, walked out knowing there are three better Italian restaurants ahead of his.' Babbo typically receives much more flattering reviews, averaging 4.1 stars on TripAdvisor and 4 stars on Google Reviews.  It was in the early hours of Thursday morning that Arsenal agreed a £7m fee with Chelsea for Luiz.  He is expected to sign a two-year deal. Agreeing personal terms should be a formality and, barring any unexpected hitches, he should become an Arsenal player today. Luiz missed first-team training on Wednesday as the Chelsea defender attempted to force through a shock move to the Gunners on deadline day. Sportsmail understands Luiz has been an increasingly disruptive figure at the club's Cobham HQ in recent days, culminating in Wednesday's surprise development. The Brazil defender, it is understood, did report for training but was not involved in the senior set-up casting doubt over his position at the club. Sources suggest the decision for Luiz not to train with Frank Lampard's squad was mutual - but there were differing views from other insiders on Wednesday night who feel his omission was part of a wider plan from the defender to force through a move to the Emirates Stadium. 
