{ By Monique Friedlander For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:54, 6 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7325109/Kyle-Sandilands-Jackie-O-Henderson-slam-Sylvia-Jeffreys-low-budget-Facebook-newscast.html }
Sylvia Jeffreys' new Facebook newscast Nine News Watch earned mixed reviews after its premiere on Monday.  And KIIS FM's Kyle Sandilands and Jackie 'O' Henderson have become the latest critics to take aim at the low-budget production, claiming that Sylvia is 'too good' for the gig.  'As far as I'm concerned, greatest news reader in the country,' an outraged Kyle declared on Tuesday morning. 'She's better than a Facebook show!' agreed Jackie, adding: 'I don't get it. Why aren't they utilising her more?' 'Why don't they get one of those boring daytime [presenters] on the Facebook that no one cares about? One of those 'jacketgate' people, put them on there,' Kyle huffed, referring to the infamous 2017 scandal involving Amber Sherlock and Julie Snook.  'Put Sylvia back on the TV where she belongs!' he added.   Kyle then joked that KIIS FM would hire Sylvia to read the news on radio - before Jackie interjected to remind him that the station already has a news presenter- Brooklyn Ross.  He later added: 'As far as I'm concerned, Sylvia Jeffreys is next in line to take [Channel Nine's] six o'clock news spot.' Sylvia's Nine News Watch kicked off on Monday night with several technical glitches, including imperfect sound and some shaky camera work. The presenter confidently opened the video with: 'Welcome to Nine News Watch. A nightly news bulletin made for you, right here on Facebook.'  However, the sound appeared slightly out of sync, which was a recurring problem in the video.  The issue was most apparent in a cross to US correspondent Charles Croucher, where Sylvia's words could be heard long before her lip movements.  Charles' live cross also suffered from shaky camera work and low resolution, which led some fans to believe it was recorded on a mobile phone without a tripod.  A separate cross to 2GB's Ross Greenwood was also plagued with shakiness and poor sound, that would not normally be seen in a TV news cross.  The response to News Watch was mixed on social media with some highlighting technical difficulties, while others were simply happy for Sylvia's return.  Sylvia announced the launch of her own show on Monday, eight months after leaving the Today show. The A Current Affair reporter appeared in a live cross on the Today show to plug her new gig and in a rather awkward twist, her Today show replacement, Tom Steinfort, presented the segment. 'An exciting nightly news program with a very familiar face is on its way. This is Nine News Watch with Sylvia Jeffreys. Take us through how this is different to other news bulletins,' Tom said.  It comes nearly a year after Sylvia was replaced by Tom on the Today show as part of a widespread shakeup, which saw her husband Peter axed and brother-in-law Karl replaced by Deborah Knight. At the time Sylvia said in a statement, 'I'm thrilled to sink my teeth into a brand new project. Opportunity often knocks when you least expect it and I'm ready to dive right in to what's ahead of me.'   She joined A Current Affair as a reporter in February as part of a four-year deal with Nine.   
