food reviews
{ By Ian Randall For Mailonline   Published:  00:01, 6 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7322901/Facebook-failing-stop-fake-product-review-factories-groups-recruit-writers.html }
Facebook has been accused of failing to stop the sale of fake product reviews through its website, more than a month after being urged to address the problem. The Competition and Markets Authority had raised concerns that a marketplace for fake product reviews had emerged on the social media platform. Consumer group Which? claimed its own investigation had since found dozens of groups on Facebook that are still recruiting people to write fake Amazon reviews. Which? have called on the Competition and Markets Authority to consider taking action against Facebook over the issue. Scroll down for video Be wary of brands you don’t know Scrutinise customer reviews thoroughly if you’re looking to buy a brand you don’t recognise. Be suspicious of large numbers If you see hundreds or even thousands of reviews, be suspicious — especially if they are largely positive. Look for repetition If you see the same review titles, repetitive phrases or even the same reviewer name appear more than once on a product, these could be fake.  Watch out for product variations Look out for variations of the same product within a listing, especially if they have an obscure name.  Filter for verified reviews Reviews marked as ‘verified’ are those that Amazon can confirm were left after the item was purchased through its website. Unverified reviews are therefore far easier to fake. Look at the dates If large numbers of reviews were posted in a short period of time, it’s very likely that they are fake. Check seller profiles Be wary of foreign seller locations, strange business names, a lack of contact details and negative reviews. Source: Which? In June, the UK's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) urged both Facebook and eBay to conduct reviews into the problem, saying there was 'troubling evidence that there is a thriving marketplace for fake and misleading online reviews.' In its own investigation, Which? reportedly joined 10 review groups on Facebook and witnessed sellers offering free products in return for high-rated review for products sold on other sites — such as Amazon. More than 55,000 such posts were made to the groups over a 30-day period, they said, adding that 'the true overall figure could well be higher as Facebook caps the number of posts it displays.'   The consumer rights group also claimed to have found a spike in the number of members of such groups on Facebook — a phenomena they believe may indicate that people are moving across to new groups as others are shut down. In contrast, Which? reported that the situation on eBay had improved significantly, although they had identified one listing that advertised five-star reviews for sale and encouraged the auction site to conduct regular screens for such posts.  'Our latest findings demonstrate that Facebook has systematically failed to take action while its platform continues to be plagued with fake review groups generating thousands of posts a day,' said Which? head of products Natalie Hitchins. 'It is deeply concerning that the company continues to leave customers exposed to poor quality or unsafe products boosted by misleading and disingenuous reviews.' 'Facebook must immediately take steps to not only address the groups that are reported to it, but proactively identify and shut down other groups, and put measures in place to prevent more from appearing in the future.' 'The CMA must now consider enforcement action to ensure that more is being done to protect people from being misled online.' 'Which? will be monitoring the situation closely and piling on the pressure to banish these fake review groups.' According to Which?, the Facebook account they used to investigate the groups presented additional fake review groups to follow, courtesy of the ‘suggested for you’ page. 'This made it unnervingly easy to find more [groups] and implies a possible weakness in the algorithm,' a Which? spokesperson said. 'In addition, group admins on groups Which? had joined — apparently aware of the issue — were found listing alternative groups to join in case the original is shut down.' It is estimated that more than three quarters of UK internet users consider online reviews when choosing what to buy — which translates into around 23 billion pounds of consumer spending being influenced by online reviews every year. Fake and misleading reviews not only lead to people making poorly-informed choices and buying the wrong products, but they are also illegal under consumer protection law. According to Which? almost a third of consumers who bought products as a result of excellent review ratings ended up disappointed by their purchase. 'It is unacceptable that Facebook groups promoting fake reviews seem to be reappearing, said CMA senior director George Lusty. 'Facebook must take effective steps to deal with this problem by quickly removing the material and stop it from resurfacing.' 'This is just the start — we'll be doing more to tackle fake and misleading online reviews.' 'Lots of us rely on reviews when shopping online to decide what to buy.  It is important that people are able to trust they are genuine, rather than something someone has been paid to write.' 'We don't allow people to use Facebook to facilitate or encourage false reviews,' a Facebook spokesperson said. 'We have removed nine of the 10 groups Which? reported to us and are investigating the remaining group.'  'We continue to improve our tools to proactively prevent this kind of abuse, including investing in technology and increasing the size of our safety and security team to 30,000.' Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg set out in March 2019 how he believes the social network and the internet should be regulated. The firm's founder and chief executive said there is a need for governments and regulators to have 'a more active role'. Mr Zuckerberg said he believes new regulation is needed in four areas – harmful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability. In an op-ed published online in the Washington Post and on his own Facebook page, Mr Zuckerberg said: 'Every day we make decisions about what speech is harmful, what constitutes political advertising, and how to prevent sophisticated cyberattacks. 'These are important for keeping our community safe. But if we were starting from scratch, we wouldn't ask companies to make these judgements alone. 'I believe we need a more active role for governments and regulators.  'By updating the rules for the internet, we can preserve what's best about it – the freedom for people to express themselves and for entrepreneurs to build new things – while also protecting society from broader harms.' 'From what I've learned, I believe we need new regulation in four areas: harmful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.' Mr Zuckerberg said legislation is important for 'protecting elections' and said it should be 'updated', adding that Facebook has already made 'significant changes around political ads'. 
