food reviews
{ By Dailymail Reporter   Published:  10:30, 5 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7293193/Boombod-7-day-weight-loss-challenge-REALLY-works.html }
It's well known that a summer body is made in winter. But, let's face it - most of us totally forgot. And as the temperature rises, so does our anxiety about baring our bodies on the beach. That's why hundreds of thousands of people around the world are turning to a 7-day weight-loss challenge that has helped them slim down, battle the bloat and feel better about themselves in just a WEEK. Boombod is a slimming aid with a difference: instead of using laxatives, it focuses on filling you up with healthy fiber through three tasty, vitamin-packed daily shots, helping to curb your appetite and stop cravings in their tracks.  A sell-out several times over, Boombod has received rave reviews, with everyone from health store fans to busy moms and even A-list celebs – so, we decided to put it to the test and asked two wannabe weight-loss warriors to try out the 7-day Boombod challenge. Here, they share their slimming stories and, more importantly, their dramatic before and after snaps... 'I was bloated and felt awful... I need something to kick-start me'  Kelsey, 23, from Norfolk, England 'I'll be honest, my diet in the past was never very healthy; takeaways every weekend, binge drinking and an added few glasses every week night.  'I could feel myself gaining more and more weight and didn't like the size I was becoming when I looked in the mirror. I started to get more upset so, finally, I decided to really do something about it. 'One of the main things I suffered from was IBS, so bloating has always been a huge issue for me – so much so, I used to look eight months pregnant if I ate the wrong foods. The main triggers for my bloating are melon, fatty foods, stress and fizzy drinks. I felt awful. 'I kept seeing people's before and afters from using Boombod on social media and looked on their website. The 7-day challenge aspect of it really appealed to me so I ordered my first box.  'I was a bit skeptical to begin with, but within days I started to notice a change. During the first week of using Boombod, I must have been two weeks into my diet/workout regime – I was thinking to myself, "I don't think these are going to work,'' but I was SO wrong! 'They make me feel incredible. I love the taste, I felt full of energy, in a good mood, and not once did I feel bloated. While taking Boombod, I was still eating my daily balanced diet – so breakfast, lunch and dinner – and I would take these shots at the appropriate times.   'The main thing I noticed was the fact that I wasn't getting hungry in between meals! Before my diet, I would get hungry and binge snack on anything I could find and always still feel hungry. I also noticed that my bloating had really subsided and I didn't feel bloated at all. 'Another thing I've noticed is I have so much more energy – I've been working out four times a week and I don't just want to be sitting down or sleeping, which I used to do a lot before. My whole body is just full of life again. 'I got engaged in May this year, so with wedding planning on the horizon, it just somehow kick-started me to lose weight and finally be confident and feel sexy again in what I wear and do. Hopefully, by this time next summer, I will be as confident as ever and will be living in my bikini 24/7!' Want to boost your confidence like Kelsey? Take the 7-day challenge by ordering Boombod HERE - and you'll get another week's supply for FREE. But hurry, stocks are running out fast! After releasing three new flavors this spring, customers were lining the streets to get their hands on the sell-out product. Now back in stock online, it's time you found out what the major fuss is surrounding the weight-loss challenge of the year. Boombod – one of Trustpilot's highest-rated weight-loss aids – is a seven-day plan taken three times a day – morning, lunchtime and evening – which has become a slimming phenomenon since its launch. In fact, when new flavors Lemon & Lime, Black Cherry for Men and Orange & Mango were launched alongside original Blackcurrant earlier this year, they sold out almost instantly.  So, how do you take it? Well, you simply mix each sachet with water and drink it half an hour before your meal. For an extra boost, all three sachets each contain their own unique vitamin blend to help with energy levels, reduce fatigue and maintain hair and skin health.  But the secret is in its main ingredient: glucomannan. This natural fiber makes up each sachet and, containing only 10 calories, helps to reduce appetite, cleanse and decrease bloating. Boombod contains 95 per cent glucomannan purity – the highest on the market. It is a natural, water-soluble dietary fiber extracted from the roots of the elephant yam. It has been taken daily in China for centuries because of its putative health benefits, and is part of a traditional medicine that has been extracted from the plant. As well as feeding the friendly bacteria in the gut, it is the only food ingredient with an EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) approved health claim for weight loss. They’ve got a massive Buy One Get One FREE Summer Sale running right NOW. Check it out at Boombod.com TODAY! Quantities are limited.  AND EVEN MEN LOVE IT... INCLUDING THESE STARS  Guys on the Jersey Shore are known for their gym-toned physiques, and Roger Mathews says that Boombod has helped him maintain his. The Jersey dad, who has a three-year-old son with reality star Jenni 'JWoww' Farley, credits Boombod's 7-day achiever plan with kickstarting his drive to tackle his dad bod for summer. Writing on his Instagram, Roger says: 'So I’ve been getting lots of questions about @boombod Black for men. Here’s the skinny (pun intended). Yes it does work and quick and YES woman can use it too!'   Over in the UK, Boombod has also proved to be a hit among the guys. Reality star Aaron Chalmers, who is currently an MMA fighter, says he uses Boombod Black to help achieve his impressive fitness goals. The Newcastle native, who found fame on reality show Geordie Shore, says he uses Boombod as it is all about results when it comes to weight loss.  He  adds: 'Definitely gave me the boost I needed to get the cravings in check and me back on track. Plus the vitamin D3 aids in natural muscle function, so that didn't hurt either. BOGO free is still on, get on it lads!' Get YOUR Buy One Get one Free deal by clicking HERE and kick-starting your summer slim down with the 7-day challenge the stars LOVE...  Social media superstar Trisha Paytas is also looking amazing after her 7-day challenge - and she inspired one of our own trialists, Elizabeth (see below), to put it to the test.  Celebrity Big Brother star Trisha reveals she loves using Boombod to help regain control of her cravings and snacking.  She explains: 'I'm on Boombod. YES, I still eat healthy and exercise regularly while using this stuff. BUT, my RESULTS have kicked up a notch since starting on this stuff! I feel incredible!!' Get YOUR Buy One Get one Free deal by click HERE and kick-starting your summer slim down with the 7-day challenge the stars LOVE...   'I couldn't shift my mom tum – the challenge helped me make it disappear!' Elizabeth, 28, from Honolulu, Hawaii 'When it comes to my diet, I'll be honest, I didn't eat that much – just the wrong type of food! I am a teacher and a single mother so it's hard to even schedule meals. But on the whole it was healthy; I had already cut out fizzy drinks and carbs, but I needed something to help me get in better shape. 'I first heard of Boombod on YouTuber Trisha Paytas' Instagram, and had already been thinking how amazing she looked. The 7-day achiever seemed perfect for me and I was sold.  'One of the major reasons I wanted to try it was because it said it helped battle bloating, which I suffer from real bad – especially around my period. 'So, I started the week challenge. On day two, I noticed I wasn't hungry; I didn’t have those late night cravings anymore and I had a boost of energy too. I was full after three eggs and some fruit or yoghurt and I couldn't believe it when I looked at the scales after seven days: 4.5 pounds down! I carried on for a second week as I had bought a BOGOF deal and lost another 5 pounds. 'Apart from the weight-loss, I also found that my skin was so much better. We all know lots of water, good hygiene and a proper skincare routine is always the key to great skin, but while taking Boombod, I had no break outs at all.  'However, the best bit about taking the seven-day challenge was the boost it gave my confidence. I had a holiday in Hawaii and felt great! 'It's helped to change the way I think about my body. After giving birth, it’s not easy to lose the mommy weight, but this is helping it to go away. I have friends who ask what diet I'm on and all I say is "Boombod". I'd recommend everyone to try the challenge and see what happens for them.' Eager to start shaping up and feel great like Elizabeth? Take the 7-day challenge by ordering Boombod HERE - and you'll get another week's supply for FREE. Get yours while stocks last. Boombod's success lies in word of mouth: real people seeing real results, fast, and telling their friends and family about it. So much so, the product boasts an unbeatable 5 stars on customer review site TrustPilot, with thrilled slimmers flocking to the site to share their stories.  Here's just a few happy customers who have heaped praise and seen amazing results with Boombod... 
