{ By Matilda Rudd and Laura House For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  06:07, 5 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7321193/Tongue-vibrators-new-sex-toy-trend-women-NEED-know-about.html }
An unusual new toy trend is making its mark in Australia with women purchasing inexpensive 'tongue vibrators' to simulate oral sex.  Smile Makers Collection, who sell 'personal massagers' on their website, have explained that the vibrating 'tongues' are extremely discreet and capable of acting much like a human partner would.  'The perfect characteristic of a tongue vibrator is you can really be adventurous with where it lingers on your body without having a partner contouring themselves to do so,' the company wrote on its blog. While they can be used on their own, adding water-based lubricant to the end will make the movements feel even more realistic. 'Holding your sensual toy at a slight distance so it is barely touching you, put it on its highest setting so that the powerful motion creates a flicking effect against you,' they said.  The brand has created their own version, called The Frenchman ($69.95), but there are a number of other varieties on offer.  The Fun Factory Volta Flickering Tongue, which can be purchased on Love Honey, is slightly pricier at $169.95 but has five star reviews. 'It is very powerful and once you find your speed and pressure and the tips find you, it feels amazing,' one person said. Another said: 'I think I may be in love with this toy. Seriously. I own a lot of sex toys and really wasn't sure about this one, but having purchased it and used it a few times, it is fantastic'. Sexpert Tracey Cox told FEMAIL: 'Apart from using their vibrator, most women have most of their orgasms through oral sex. They're often the most intense as well: the tongue is perfect for stimulating the clitoris.  'This is great news if you have a partner, not so great if you're single and solo. Tongue vibrators mimic the sensation of oral sex - some extremely effectively, meaning people without partners don't have to miss out. I think they're a brilliant invention.'  The traditional self-pleasure devices have undergone huge makeovers over the past few years and in 2019 alone, a number of products have launched with features that would have seemed laughable five years ago.  Australian We-Vibe sex and relationship expert, Dr. Jessica O'Reilly, and Womanizer sexpert and Head of Communications, Johanna Rief, explained to Femail how these new products can help enhance our sex lives. 'Sex tech continues to evolve every day, with advances in things like teledildonics, app-enabled toys, interactive digital shows/experiences, sex robots, VR sex in private rooms and 3D printed toys,' Dr O'Reilly told FEMAIL.  App-controlled toys are bigger than ever, with more advancements made in this area than any other.   'We now use apps to order food, cars, and even babysitters. We do our banking, period-tracking and dating online, so it follows that our sexual relationships will also find themselves online,' Dr O'Reilly said.   'Long-distance relationships can be just as fulfilling as geographically-close relationships, and most couples want to maintain an active sex life while apart.  * 71% of Australian millennials have lost their virginity by the time they are 18  * Gen Z is losing their virginity earlier than their millennial counterparts with the average age for virginity loss amongst Gen Z being 16 and 18 for millennials   * Most people are having sex 5+ times per month, with 61% of Australians having sex at least 5 times per month with an average of 9 times per month * 53% of young Australians have had between 1 and 5 sexual partners  * 52% of females report being in a committed romantic relationship compared to only 37% of males Source: 2019 SKYN Intimacy Survey of 2000 millennials  'Toys like these allow couples who travel for work to stay connected in an erotic way from a distance.' The We-Vibe Moxie ($149) is one of the newest on the market and is designed to be worn out and about, encouraging couples to spice up their love life outside the bedroom. It can be controlled via a multi-function remote or a smartphone app, which can be controlled personally or by a partner.   Modern versions of the best-selling 'rabbit' vibrator are also emerging, with new hi-tech features tailored for female pleasure.   'In my opinion, Sex and the City was definitely the kick off for the success story that is the 'rabbit' vibrator,' Ms Rief told FEMAIL. 'But that was 20 years ago now, and back then the clitoris wasn't even fully discovered.  'Many people don't know that 70 - 80 per cent of all women achieve clitoral orgasms, which is why the rabbits are so successful, because they have an extra, shorter vibrator for clitoral stimulation.' One of the new generation 'rabbit' designs is the Womanizer DUO ($329) - a flexible and almost silent vibrator that can easily adapt to the anatomy of each user.  1. Be selfish Ask for what you want and stop worrying about your partner so that you can focus on yourself. Often, we perform pleasure because we're so focused on our partners feelings, that we forget about our own. Learn to be selfish, and practice taking pleasure without feeling the need to reciprocate. 2. Get to know your body Simply examining your genitals using a mirror can help you learn more about this beautiful region and appreciate its sexual and practical splendor. Spend more time naked to become comfortable with your body – especially if anxiety related to body image is holding you back in bed. 3. Masturbate The more you learn to take care of yourself, the more likely you are to reach the heights of pleasure with your partner. 4. Invest in lifestyle factors that affect your overall health and sex life  Sleep, eat well, and exercise. 5. Practice mindfulness  Start your day with seven deep breaths and simply allow yourself to feel the air moving throughout and around your body. Practice focus: close your eyes and have your partner caress your hands and face for five minutes. If you practice mindfulness outside of the bedroom, you'll enjoy the benefits in the bedroom with regard to presence, intimacy and pleasure. The DUO works for women in two ways - it massages the clitoris using gentle air vibrations using 'Pleasure Air' technology and also stimulates the G-spot and vaginal area. When it comes to devices that are most in-demand, Ms Rief says anything that stimulate the clitoris is a hit.   'There are still a lot of women out there (35 per cent) who rarely or never have an orgasm during sexual intercourse, and a clitoral stimulating sex toy can help,' she said.  'Of course, we know there are many reasons why some women cannot orgasm, but that is why we are fighting for female empowerment, body positivity and an open discussion about female pleasure in all its forms.'  
