{ By Christopher Stevens for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:53, 5 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7320929/CHRISTOPHER-STEVENS-Two-old-geezers-nattering-heart-ops-fishing-Im-hooked.html }
Gone Fishing The Mind Of Herbert Clunkerdunk Funny thing, friendship. You can sometimes lose touch with the people you like best for months or even years — but the next time you get together, it is as though you saw each other just yesterday. Paul Whitehouse and Bob Mortimer were back together on the river in Gone Fishing (BBC2), a year after the first series proved an unexpected smash hit, and it was as if they had never been away. Not that they would admit it. Paul, best known for The Fast Show, claimed he had tried to get the Beeb to hire fellow comedian David Baddiel in Bob’s place. Bob (Vic Reeves’s long-time sidekick) retorted that he would rather work with Holly Willoughby. The truth is, this is a genuine friendship, one that goes back to their beginnings in comedy during the Eighties, and the fishing trips are no gimmick. Before anyone at the Beeb had the notion of sending cameras along to record their bankside banter, the two men — both recovering from serious heart ops in their 50s — were sharing days out by the water. Though on the show they are ceaselessly flippant about their health, a book that followed the first series was more open. In it, Bob confessed that, after a triple heart bypass, he began to think about death constantly. ‘For a year, I was quite intense. I do not feel scared about death, I just feel so frustrated and sad to think I will not see how stories end. My children’s story. My wife’s . . . ‘You think about it in the funniest circumstances — like, if I die, I won’t see what happens with Brexit or I’ll miss the next World Cup.’ Some people might regard death as a sweet release from the Brexit saga, but you take his point. So did Paul, who decided ‘we had to get you out of that state, didn’t we, Robert?’ Gone Fishing’s roots in real life seem to frighten some at New Broadcasting House, who cannot imagine that TV can exist without conforming to a format. When he accepted an entertainment award for Gone Fishing earlier this year, Bob revealed that one exec told him at the start: ‘Good luck in making a show about nothing — that’s a rare thing in telly these days.’ As a result, some formulaic features creep in. Each week, Bob makes Paul some ‘heart-friendly food’. This time, it was lamb and prunes in pitta. And there is always a fuss made about the eccentricities of their accommodation, when really we would be perfectly happy to watch them talking nonsense and bothering trout for hours on end. No one can accuse Spencer Jones of being formulaic in The Mind Of Herbert Clunkerdunk (BBC2), a surreal little sitcom about a suburban dad whose imagination keeps kidnapping him and dragging him away on peculiar excursions. One minute Spencer is playing with the children, the next he is being serenaded by a row of Wellington boots in the hallway. The bursts of song sound like vintage Kenny Everett radio jingles, which is great, and they are often cleverly set up to look like MTV videos from the Nineties. With so much inspired lunacy to cram in to each ten-minute episode, it is a shame the main joke of the first show was about stepping in dog muck. Anyone can do low, cheap gags — Spencer has a chance to prove that his humour is unique, and he needs to show more confidence. My favourite routine was the front door that slammed shut and then got abusive, shouting football chants with its letterbox flapping. Doors can be like that. Handy excuse of the weekend: Nasty George Warleggan (Jack Farthing) has been ‘away in the North’ on Poldark (BBC1) — a polite way of saying he has gone crackers.  A useful phrase . . . file it with ‘tired and emotional’ and ‘off to see a man about a dog’.  
