food reviews
{ By Emily Knott For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:34, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8038767/Why-hundreds-Amazon-customers-obsessed-17-foot-peeling-mask.html }
Getting rid of hard skin on your feet can be a tedious and a costly affair – especially if an in-salon trip is required.  Fortunately, there are a handful of at-home feet-softening tools readily available, from pumice stones to foot files. But for an effective - if slightly stomach-churning - result you may want to try a chemical and enzyme foot peel.  The Plantifique Exfoliating Foot Peeling Mask is currently notching up hundreds of positive reviews on Amazon from shoppers who describe it as hugely effective (and totally gross). Similar to chemical exfoliants for your face, foot peels have been formulated with a blend of exfoliating alpha hydroxy acids (AHAs) and fruit enzymes to dissolve dead skin until it literally sheds off your feet. The Plantifique Exfoliating Foot Peeling Mask has been described as an essential for getting feet back in tip top condition ahead of spring and sandal-wearing season. Formulated with milk and plant extracts, including sweet peach and hydrating aloe, the foot peeling mask will help shed dead skin and moisturise your soles. No scrubbing required. The set, which comes with two pairs of masks and costs $16.99, is effective, but it's worth noting that results aren't immediate – expect peeling to start at day three to four, and the whole process can last up to a week. There's no denying the foot peel will leave your feet looking a little worse for wear before revealing soft new skin underneath. But if you're repulsed by the idea of a peel, don't knock it until you've seen the impressive Before and After photos on Amazon. Among the rave reviews, buyers say that the whole process is low-effort and extremely effective. One reviewer dubbed the foot peel 'fantastically gross'. Another happy shopper added: 'It works really well. All my hard skin gone and new born skin is just like baby. Just wear mask for 60 min and wash it away. So easy, within week all skin comes off. Superb mask.'   DailyMail.com may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.        
