{ By Carly Stern For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:46, 2 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-7315679/Customers-FURIOUS-Butterfingers-new-recipe.html }
Hundreds of longtime Butterfinger fans are furious about the candy's bar's new recipe — and demanding that parent company Ferrero bring the old version back. Butterfinger actually changed its recipe back in December, slightly changing some of the ingredients and transforming the crunchy bar to have a smoother texture. But lately, customers have been flooding the brand's Instagram feed with seething complaints and passionate calls for the old recipe to make a comeback. The 'improved' recipe includes roasted peanuts and 'chocolatey' coating. According to Food & Wine, it has a more 'natural-tasting roasted peanut flavor and a 'richer aftertaste'. But whether it's actually a better taste is up for debate — and many customers who have been loyal for years are saying it misses the mark.  'Day dreaming of the original recipe instead of this vomit,' wrote one commenter on the brand's most recent Instagram post. 'The improved recipe butterfinger is a nightmare!' wrote another. 'Devastated you destroyed my favorite candy bar with a new recipe. No one asked for this so-called improvement and now all my future Halloweens are RUINED,' added another particularly dramatic commenter. 'Whenever a long standing brand changes things@you know it's Always to cut corners and costs. Your new one has a Disgusting after taste!' said yes another. Hundreds of others have chimed in on Instagram posts dating back months:  'Change it back. My childhood is ruined by your "improvements."' 'This new one sucks. Just terrible. Guess I’ll find another go to candy bar. Thanks for ruining something good.' 'You were my all time favorite candy. Something I could count on that would never change. The new recipe is really disappointing, it tastes like a butterfinger gone bad. Please bring back the original.'  'I had no idea the recipe changed! I took several bites and thought my candy bar had “gone bad” (if that’s even possible). It was absolutely disgusting. Soooo disappointed that my fave candy bar is no longer. Pleas bring the old recipe back!  'The only thing this new Butterfinger needs is to be sold with a trashcan so you can throw it where it belongs, in the trash. YUCK! You changed something that did not need to be changed. The new taste is horrible!!! 'FIRE whoever changed the great original recipe and change it BACK PLEASE!' Of course, the reviews are unanimously negative, and several commmenters have applauded the new taste. 'I love the new Butterfinger! Smooth, yummy and doesn't get stuck in your teeth. Love it!' wrote one. 'Love it. Thank you for taking out the preservatives!!!' said another. Butterfinger has also defended its newer recipe, telling Business Insider that they'd fielded 'both praise and criticism' and sales have ultimately gone up. "Butterfinger sales have experienced periods of double digit growth while broadening the appeal of the brand to reach more consumers,' the representative said. 'This is a great improvement versus a year ago, when Butterfinger was losing consumers and facing double digit sales declines.'  
