{ By Daily Mail Australia Reporter   Published:  12:26, 27 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7292323/Iggy-Azalea-addresses-scathing-reception-comeback-album-Defense.html }
Iggy Azalea has addressed the scathing reviews of her new album, In My Defense. Responding to a fan on Twitter this week, the 29-year-old rapper admitted that the bad reviews came as no surprise, as critics have never enjoyed her music. 'Reading the reviews from In My Defense has me so sad,' a fan wrote to Iggy on Friday. 'Even the Wikipedia page now says it got bad reviews.' 'Babe, relax,' Iggy responded. 'Critics have literally NEVER given any album I’ve made a good review and I'm still here!' She added: 'What did you think was gonna happen.' The Mullumbimby-born beauty released her sophomore album In My Defense last week, five long years after her debut effort The New Classic topped the charts.  And while fans have been lapping up the long-awaited release, the reception from critics has been brutal. The disc has been savaged by music critics, who have called it 'unoriginal' and accused the 29-year-old rapper of cultural appropriation.  'The album is stacked with cartoonish approximations of what she thinks a rap song should sound like,' wrote Pitchfork, who scored the album a 3.8 out of 10.   'Iggy Azalea is not the only current rapper who fills songs with dreary, monotonous references to sex and money, but many find creative, amusing, and even raw ways to write and spit about both,' they continue. 'Instead, Iggy crams her songs with one-liners that sound like branded Instagram captions.' A critic for Clash was just as brutal, writing: 'There’s a borrowed feel across the album as a whole. It’s almost as if the twelve-track set is delivered as a project that she thinks that we want to hear, as opposed to what is truly on her mind. 'Similarly, [single] Sally Walker - also a part of In My Defense - arrived earlier this year as an instant parallel to Cardi B’s Money, sparking no sign of originality, particularly in the production arena.' The NZ Herald also had harsh words for Iggy, pointing out the the 'Southern drawl' that the Australian star has replaced her natural accent with.  'The controversial Aussie rapper has returned with the same faux Southern drawl and vernacular that has earned her accusations of cultural appropriation,' they wrote. 'It's not even just about the appropriation; she also speaks about being poor while also stunting about her wealth with all the self-awareness of a teaspoon.' They added: 'The real kicker is that Iggy Azalea is actually a good rapper - or at least she could be if she actually had something real to say and said it in her own voice.' The publication went on to give the disc a disappointing one star out of five. 
