{ By Gabrielle Donnelly For Weekend Magazine   Published:  22:31, 26 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7276797/Former-Tonight-host-Jay-Leno-reveals-best-worst-guests.html }
Sometimes it's hard to believe that the motor car has been around for only about 135 years.  But although its history is relatively short, its roots are long, and in this week's episode of new BBC documentary series Revolutions: Ideas That Changed The World, the full tale, including the invention of the wheel, is rolled out. Along the way we're given an enticing peek into the North Hollywood garage of Jay Leno, legendary former host of US talk show The Tonight Show and car enthusiast.  He takes us for a spin in one of his lovingly restored steam cars, which offers a leisurely pace of driving. 'If your wife's having a baby, this is not the car to take her to hospital in,' notes Jay. Not that he's the least bit fazed by the lack of speed in his beloved vintage vehicles. 'I drive them home from work,' he tells me cheerfully when we meet for him to show me his car collection, where he hosts his television show Jay Leno's Garage, an eclectic mix of interviews, reviews, stunts and all things car-related. He's a cheerful sort, Jay, tall and capable with a shock of silver hair and a palpable love for the vehicles crammed into this space. 'I drive them everywhere in Los Angeles, as people did for 100 years.  Steam cars were quite reliable. Trains had been dependable since the 1800s, and they ran on steam; a train without a track is all a steam car is.' Although Jay came to fame as a comedian and chat show host, it's clear cars are where his heart lies. At the last count his garage housed 181, from vintage to modern; each one is kept gleaming and in tip-top condition by its proud owner. As he explains, car maintenance is something he grew up with. 'When I was a kid everybody had to have some technical ability just to survive. Some things you just knew how to do.  'But it was good if you knew more about it, because when you broke down and you fixed it, you got home and your mother was amazed. You felt you'd accomplished something. 'Nowadays people are mystified by cars. When it breaks down, your phone is your tool kit. I think a reason young people are not so much interested in mechanical things any more is because they don't bond with them in the same way.' James Douglas Muir Leno grew up in smalltown Massachusetts, the son of a Scottish mother and an Italian-American father.  'It was a hilarious upbringing,' he says. 'The Italians and the Scots – I love both sides but each one would try to get you to convert to their side. I would go to Aunt Nettie's – my mother's sister. "Would ye like a scone, Jamie?" 'She'd put one scone on a plate. "Would ye like a Coca-Cola?" She'd pull out a Coca-Cola she'd kept in the cupboard. "Ye know, Jamie, you don't have to refrigerate it, it costs money to run the refrigerator and it tastes the same." 'And then I'd go to the Italian side and it would be meatballs and lasagne, the works. And then when the Scots people came to dinner with the Italians, "Jamie, we're only six people but there must be 30 people's food here. Italian people are terrible, they waste food."  'They liked each other really and my parents were married for 60 years – it was just very funny.' A dyslexic, Jay says he struggled at school until he found he had a knack for telling jokes, and after college he decided to try his hand at making a living as a comic. 'I figured I'd just do that until I had to get a real job – and I never had to get a real job.' In his 20s he moved to Los Angeles, where he fell in with a circle of other young comics including Jerry Seinfeld, Billy Crystal and the late Garry Shandling and Robin Williams.  'Robin and I were very close. We started out together – when I first met him he was pretending to be a Russian comedian, talking in a pretend Russian accent, "I've cohm to Ah-mericaaa", you know. And I was so stupid I thought, "Oh, I'm going to try to help this Russian guy."' Jay became a regular comic on The Tonight Show, stood in as a guest host, and in 1992 took over as permanent host. With a one-year break, he stayed at the helm until 2014.  'The toughest talk show guests are the ones who don't talk, like Robert De Niro: "Nope. Nope. Yeah. Nope. Nope." Buzz Aldrin was another. I love him but, "What's it like to walk on the Moon, Buzz?" "Cool." "OK. It's cool. Uh… thanks!" Unfamiliar accents can also be problematic. 'We had Roger Moore on once – the quintessential Englishman, who had a house in LA. I mentioned nearby Palm Springs, and he said,"My wife and I often go to Ind-eyy-a." I said, "That's quite a trip, isn't it?" "Not really." "How often do you go?" "Every weekend or so."  '"Every weekend? To India?" "Yes!" And now he's getting annoyed. Well, it turned out he wasn't saying India but Indio, a town near Palm Springs, about a 45-minute drive away!' His most notable British guest was Hugh Grant, who in 1995 slunk onto the show, shame-faced, having just been caught in flagrante in his car with prostitute Divine Brown.  'I give him a lot of credit,' says Jay of the star, who was in town to promote his movie Nine Months.  'That was the start of when people had handlers, and publicists were saying, "You can't talk about this, my client will not come on the show if you broach that." But Hugh honoured his commitment to appear, and arrived by himself.  'He said, "OK, Jay, I stuffed it up, just let me have it." He was very funny, very self-effacing; plus, it wasn't drunk-driving, or cocaine rage where somebody was beaten or killed, it was just a guy doing something stupid.  'I liked him. He was a nice guy; I felt sorry for him.' He thinks one reason Hugh was forgiven for his transgression was that he was honest about it.  'Americans will accept anything but hypocrisy. Years ago I had Charlie Sheen on the show and he said, "I like cocaine and hookers," and the audience applauded. I was, like, "Why are you applauding?" It was because he was so honest. That's what brought Bill Cosby down: the hypocrisy.' Jay says he was shocked when Cosby, beloved comedian and self-proclaimed devoted family man, was accused of a series of rapes and drug-assisted sexual assaults that had allegedly occurred over decades.  'I worked with Bill many times. I opened for him once at Lake Tahoe, and he was very nice to me.  'He had a couple of girls with him – cartoon-type girls, the boobs were a little too big. We went out to eat and my wife was whispering, "Isn't he married?" I was saying, "I don't know what's going on."  'But to me that was a case of, "I don't know what relationship these people have, they're grown-ups, it's none of my business." 'I think a lot of Bill's nonsense was pretty much an open secret at the time. It wasn't until the drugging started being talked about that people said, "Whoa, wait a minute."' Cosby is appealing his April 2018 conviction for drugging and sexually assaulting a woman, for which he was imprisoned for three to ten years. It's a fair bet we won't be hearing any scandals about Jay: he's been happily married since 1980 to Mavis Leno, feminist and social activist with a special interest in the plight of women in Afghanistan.  'I like being married,' he says. 'I like to make my wife laugh. I like the company. Another star I met – I won't tell you his name – said to me, "I met this girl, she's crazy but the sex is unbelievable." I said to him, "I know but here's the thing. When the sex is over, she's still crazy. And that's 23 hours of crazy until you get to the next sex part. That's going to be a looong period of crazy."' He says he's clean-living to the point of boring. 'I don't drink or smoke, but I've been to Hollywood parties where you walk in and there's cocaine on the table. I'll say, "I don't want to be rounded up when the cops come, let me just leave."  'As a comic, I'm an observer, I'm not a participant. I loved having Charlie Sheen on the show and hearing about his excesses, but I don't want to be Charlie.' If Jay ever finds himself getting too big for his boots, he has only to remember his mother to bring himself back down to earth.  'She didn't believe in drawing attention to yourself; she'd call me Mister Big Shot. But she did like it when I introduced her to stars. I appeared on Des O'Connor's show a few times.  'I took my parents to meet him and he did that classic thing with the schmaltz – he took my mother's hand and kissed it, and my mother was like, "Och…"' Jay preens coyly, and fans his face with his fingers, then laughs. 'Suddenly showbusiness was the greatest profession in the world!'  Revolutions: Ideas That Changed The World, Tuesday, 9pm, BBC4. 
