{ By Chloe Morgan For Mailonline   Published:  10:43, 25 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7277279/A-primer-proved-hit-overseas-launched-online-UK.html }
A top-selling primer which has proved a hit overseas has now launched online in the UK - and its racked up an impressive 133 five-star reviews.  e.l.f.’s Poreless Putty Primer, which retails at £8, has previously sold out 10 times and accumulated a waiting list of 140K+ eager beauty fans in the US.  But Brits will be pleased to hear the balm-like, pore-blurring primer is now available to buy on the retailer's website and in Superdrug stores across the country. And according to the review section, it has been worth the wait as beauty addicts have gone so far as to call the product the 'perfect primer' and the 'best ever!'   'I have been trying to get a hold of this primer and finally did,' wrote one. 'I bought a back up it’s just that good!' while another commented: 'I was a skeptic but it really helps my foundation last and my pores aren't nearly as noticeable. I won't be using any other primer.'    A third wrote: 'It is the BEST primer! Makes my makeup last all day! It makes me look absolutely poreless without needing a ton of product or making me break out.' The makeup enthusiast went on to praise the product for it multi-use purposes, saying it can be used in the T-zone for a more natural look while other days she's more glam so applies it all over. 'My daughter also uses it on her much younger skin and has the same results. Great for all ages!' the shopper added.  The popular product is 100% vegan and cruelty-free, and features hydrating squalane.  On the website, the product description reads: 'This skin perfecting poreless putty primer is infused with Squalane to help grip makeup for all-day wear and help protect skin from moisture loss.' 'The velvety texture glides effortlessly over the skin, smoothing over imperfections for a poreless effect.' And many who managed to get their hands on the highly sought-after beauty must-have appear to back up the claims. 'Smooth, lightweight, and long lasting,' penned one. 'It goes on smooth, silky, and is very lightweight. It grips my foundation to last all day even in the 90°+ weather we have had lately.'  Meanwhile, others compared the primer to high-end products and praised it for being good value for money. 'I look forward to this step in my routine because it makes my skin so soft and flawless,' commented one. 'I love love this primer and I’ve used some high end ones. Never again as I can see this always being in my collection.'  Another commented: 'I am in love with this primer! So much so that I have three just for backup in case it is unavailable again,' while a third wrote: 'Literally such an amazing product for the price.'   
