food reviews
{ By Christopher Stevens for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:53, 25 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7283629/CHRISTOPHER-STEVENS-reviews-nights-TV-wouldnt-want-cuddle-baby-elephant.html }
Animal Babies Shop Well For Less Mr Walt Disney was the first film-maker to recognise just how much audiences adored baby animals when he created Dumbo, the tiny circus elephant with ears like bedspreads. One year later, in 1942, he invented a soft-eyed orphan named Bambi, the little deer whose legs splayed in all directions on a frozen pond. Safina the one-day-old elephant combined the charms of both these characters in Animal Babies (BBC2). This new wildlife series showed us infant otters, Arctic foxes, hyenas, monkeys and gorillas, but it was Safina who stole the show as she took her first tenative steps. Her herd was on the move to new pastures, which meant the 15st baby had to follow her mother across a muddy track with steep banks. Safina’s legs went everywhere all at once — tripping over her own giant feet, spreadeagled in the puddles, somersaulting, running on the spot. She looked just like Laurel and Hardy in an elephant costume. Animal fans never tire of footage like that. Half the viewers had probably just watched the fluffy baby apes on C4’s Orangutan Jungle School, an hour earlier, falling out of trees and pleading adorably for an extra slice of mango. This series is a little different, because the camera crews commentate on what they’re filming. The cinemaphotographer in Monterey harbour, on California’s Pacific coast, was waiting patiently to film a six-week-old sea otter pup’s first dive: when they’re born, their fur is so buoyant that they can’t actually swim below the surface of the waves. At last, with a determined waggle of his tail, the little chap managed to get underwater, where the fish are. ‘That is a moment,’ sighed Colin the cameraman. ‘It’s almost like seeing your own kid ride his bike for the first time.’ The mountain gorillas in the stormy Ugandan rainforest were captivating, living in the treetops, despite the risk of lightning strikes. And the macaques in Sri Lanka’s ancient ruins of Polonnaruwa looked like wise old priests, with their wizened faces and probing gazes. But it was the elephant clan who stirred the deepest emotions. These creatures have such powerful family bonds, it is impossible to watch them and be unmoved. The moment when Safina’s mother met her own sister, and the two matriarchs greeted each other by draping their trunks across each other’s heads, was fascinating and touching. At their feet, baby Safina and her cousin were copying the gesture. Who wouldn’t want to be hugged by a baby elephant? Inside The Ritz Hotel (ITV) was devoted to decorating their half-ton Christmas tree while a choir sang Santa Claus Is Coming To Town... all in a July week when it’s been a sweltering 90F. Wasn’t that a masterpiece of scheduling!  Alex Jones and Steph McGovern had no time for that type of sentiment as their briskly mumsy show Shop Well For Less (BBC1) returned for a fourth series. Picking up a pot of shower gel with a unicorn on the packaging, Alex snorted: ‘What does a unicorn smell like? They’re just horses, with a horn.’ The families featured on this show are often feckless and wasteful, blowing a fortune on takeaways. But Caroline and John from Evesham were ruthlessly well organised, even counting how many pennies it cost to put the washing machine on. They had to be careful with cash, since they had eight children. Alex and Steph tried to persuade the couple to ditch pricey brand-name kitchenware and switch to cheap tat, but Caroline very sensibly was having none of it. Her food blender and casserole dishes were the tools of her trade, she said. The only worthwhile bit of advice was to try a home-swap holiday in Britain, instead of taking their whole tribe to a villa in Portugal. Flying with eight kids...the mind boggles. 
