{ By Amethyst Tate For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:54, 24 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7282775/California-deli-branded-racist-launching-Trump-inspired-send-special.html }
A deli owner has been slammed after offering a 'send her back' special inspired by a controversial chant from a Donald Trump rally.  John Canesa, who owns Canesa's Brooklyn Heros deli in Clayton, California, posted the offer on Facebook.  He wrote: 'Meatballs made with beef today incase we offend any of our overly sensitive pork haters!! Free side when you say 'send her back!'  'Send her back' appears to refer to the president's rally in North Carolina last week during which Trump supporters repeatedly roared 'send her back' as he attacked Congresswoman Ilhan Omar.   The chant - which has been slammed by Trump's opponents as racist - was inspired by the president's declaration that Somali-born Omar and other progressive Democrats should 'go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came'.  After making the special offer, Canesa told KTVU that he had been dealing with threats. His Facebook page has since been made private or deleted.  The business has been bombarded with negative reviews on Yelp since the offer was revealed. One user posted: 'I will not support racism, bigotry, sexism, or any form of hatred with my hard earned money. I'm all done with this place.'  Another wrote: 'Food was always fair at best; Owner is racist jackass-STAY AWAY.' Clayton mayor Tuija Catalano also weighed in, writing on Facebook: 'I am very saddened to have seen a FB post by the owner of local deli this morning. We all have rights to our own political, religious, and other opinions. We all have a right to post about them too.' She continued: 'However, there is no place in our community for hatred and bigotry. When hateful comments are being promoted as part of a local business, they reflect on our community's reputation.  'As an elected official, who is also a woman and foreign-born, I personally find a comment about sending anyone back over their political opinions unacceptable.' Trump has refused to apologize for saying that Omar and three other congresswomen should go back to the 'broken and crime infested' countries they came from. That is despite the fact that all four are American citizens. And while Omar was born in Somalia, the other members of the progressive Democrat 'squad' - Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib and Ayanna Pressley - were all born in the US.   
