food reviews
{ By Matilda Rudd For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:21, 24 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7275561/Founder-plant-based-app-Hippie-Lane-reveals-started-eating-meat-again.html }
Mother-of-two Taline Gabrielian rose to prominence after her plant-based app and vegan cookbook Hippie Lane garnered rave reviews. But in a recent blog post on her blog the 37-year-old from Sydney revealed she has added wild caught fish, red meat, ghee and chicken to her diet, after eating vegan food for years. In 2015 she was diagnosed with adrenal fatigue and 'functional medicine specialists' told her she would have to change her 'ethical' lifestyle in order to recover. Adrenal fatigue is a term used to describe a collection of symptoms, such as body aches, fatigue, nervousness, sleep disturbances and digestive problems. It occurs when your adrenal glands, which control your stress levels, become 'burnt out'.  'I had to stop all forms of exercise, transition to a whole food diet (not plant-based), take 15 vitamins and herbals each morning plus another eight more at night, reduce work to casual or part time, sleep a minimum of 8-9 hours and meditate for 20 minutes morning and night,' she said.     The truth is, when I was on a (not strictly but mostly) plantbased diet, I ran myself low. I was at my worst in my health when I was strictly off meat. Sorry to disappoint. It was hard for me to accept this too, but it's true. All three doctors that I saw at the time agreed on the point that patients who have a combination of adrenal fatigue and methylation issues (undermethylation precisely) do not recover well on a fully vegan/plantbased diet.  These doctors were not against plantbased diets and when asked, all agreed that plantbased can work well for many people. But it simply wasn't right for me. There is no one-size fits all method.  Some people can make it work plantbased, but based on my health record and decline, it was not working for ME. Their opinion was that a vegan (which is usually a high copper, high folate, high histamine) diet was causing more damage than good.  While it seemed extreme at the time 12 months of following the program saw her 'brain fog' lift and moodiness disappear. It was hard to come to terms with the fact that a plant-based philosophy was only hindering her health, given much of Taline's brand is based off promoting it.  'My personal experience is that a plant-based diet contributed to the decline in my health during the peak stage of my adrenal fatigue,' she said. Before breakfast: Water with lemon Breakfast: Heat 1/2 cup of dhal with some kale and spinach in a fry pan until the leaves have wilted.  I prepare half an avocado, a handful of nuts, (I love 2die4 Activated Pecans - try it!) and some mango or kiwi and have a feast. Lunch: Treats like matcha donuts or coconut tahini cookies Dinner: Lentil bolognese, veggie burgers with roast potato chips, taco bowls, baked falafel, mushroom san choy bao or lentil dhal. Occasionally it will be grilled fish with roast veggies or roast lamb. 'There is no one size fits all method. Some people can make it work plant-based, but based on my health record and decline, it was not working for me.' She still eats gluten-free and avoids eggs because of her food intolerances but has added 'moderate amounts of ethically sourced organic animal protein' into the mix.   'With Hippie Lane I offered plant-based recipes as a way of helping people eat more plants and reduce their intake of animal products,' she said of her famous app.  'I did not run with a vegan philosophy and refrained from giving advice to my audience about what they should or should not eat.'  Hippie Lane started from humble beginnings, with Taline getting into wholesome food while experimenting with recipes at home.  * Fatigue * Body aches * Unexplained weight loss or gain * Low blood pressure * Lightheadedness * Brain fog * Anxiety/Depression * Loss of body hair * Skin discolouration (hyperpigmentation) * Sleep disturbances * Digestion issues  After finding out she was sensitive to gluten, egg, dairy and refined sugars, she made it her mission to come up with healthy and delicious recipes free of these things. She sold these treats to cafes around Sydney in 2011 and after her Instagram took off, the motivated entrepreneur simply couldn't be stopped and her first cook book was released in 2017. 'Just as Hippie Lane developed and evolved with no specific business plan or strategy, we will follow the same natural and organic direction for the future of the brand and look forward to seeing what comes next,' she said at the time. 
