{ By Sarah Finley For Mailonline   Published:  14:09, 23 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7275701/Fans-wild-cult-beauty-range-Pestle-Mortar-lands-M-S-including-sold-serum.html }
A beauty range, which includes a sell out serum, is now available at Marks and Spencer - and fans have gone wild for it. Last year Pestle and Mortar's Hyaluronic serum sold out for the fifth time worldwide, after getting an abundance of five star reviews online. The serum, which claims to target fine lines, dullness and dehydration, also gained a waiting list of around 35,000 people every time it was restocked.  However it's now available at M&S for £39, as long with the whole Pestle and Mortar range, which the store have snapped up. Fans took to the M&S Instagram this week, as they announced the news, and shared their excitement - claiming how much they loved the brand and that the serum was 'amazing'.  Focusing on natural healing principles, the range of products is completely free of harsh chemicals and ingredients, as well as being vegan and cruelty free.   The 30ml serum, which costs £39, is joined by eight of their other products - which include a £43 hydrate moisturiser, a £68 retinoid night oil and an illuminating gel cleanser for £38. M&S fans were excited by the new partnership, with many saying they would rush to get the products, which launched last week, in 45 stores and online. One fan said: 'Yaaaaas! The @pestleandmortar hyaluronic acid is AMAZING!'  While another, clearly excited fan, said: 'Woohoo!! I absolutely love this brand! Congratulations. So excited that they are now available at M&S.' 'Exciting! I've heard great things about them,' another said. While others said 'wow' and claimed how much they 'loved' the brand.  The serum has had great reviews on the brands website, with one saying: 'Best serum I have ever used. Magic in a bottle! Love it!' while another enthused: 'Great product. Can’t live without it.' A third who praised the 100 per cent cruelty free product commented: 'Amazing Amazing Amazing. Best HA Acid I have tried ever.' Dubbed the 'ultimate multi-tasker for your skin,' the serum, which can be bought from Look Fantastic and QVC, claims to restore youthful elasticity, leaving customers with a healthy glow and radiance. 
