{ By Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:20, 19 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7187993/How-enjoy-short-stay-one-Asias-favourite-summer-holiday-destinations.html }
Whizzing through the forest with nothing to stop me falling but a harness attached to a thin zip wire I feel a rush of adrenaline pumping through my body.  As I zoom at least 40 metres above the ground I'm starting to wish the friendly staff hadn't insisted I eat a huge buffet of fried rice and spicy noodles before sending me this stomach-churning experience. But as I get the hang of swinging from tree top to tree top the terror subsides and I feel euphoric as I soar above the ground.  Ziplining at Hanuman World was a great experience to kick start my trip to Phuket, the largest and best known Thai island. Hearing mixed reviews before I travelled I wasn't sure what to expect but I quickly fell in love with this palm-fringed party mecca.  Everyone knows about Phuket's spectacular beaches, stunning scenery, delicious food and vibrant nightlife but I was surprised by its hidden gems. From eye-grabbing street art, to ocean swims, great hikes and exhilarating ziplining, Daily Mail Australia looks at the top experiences for a short stay in Phuket. Scroll down for video   There is always more than meets the eye in Phuket. As I strolled through brightly coloured terraces, reminiscent of a rainbow, I felt as though I'd teleported out of Asia and into a street of Portugal. Phuket's Old Town is filled with numerous iconic Sino-Portugese colonial buildings lining the roads, a reflection of the island's diverse cultural history. Arguably one of the most colourful Instagramable locations on the island, I watched as other visitors posed for photos in front of the many cafés and fashion stores. To take a break from the humidity, I wandered into one of the coffee shops and taste tested some of the best local desserts. The culture of Phuket Old Town can also be explored through the street art, created by local artists like Alex Face, Phichit Paidaeng and Rakkid Kuanhavej. A visit on Sunday evening is recommended as Thalang Road is transformed into the popular walking street night market.  Not for the faint-hearted, Hanuman World will quite literally leave you hanging at every turn. There are four experiences visitors can opt to enjoy and they probably depend on how extreme your fear of heights is. Wanon Restaurant presents a buffet-styled experience, which serves the best of the Thai cuisine. There are plenty of options to suit your palate, as well as delicious dishes suitable for vegetarians – just like me. It's important to have a full belly before you fly into the air, but a break between the meal and diving into the greenery is recommended. For those not sold by the thrill of hanging over the forests, the sky walk is best suited, allowing visitors to marvel over the natural beauty. If you're more daring, the zipline is a great way to dump all the pre-holiday baggage and stress. Once fitted in the necessary safety equipment, I was pushed from the edge of tree-tops to swoop between more than 30 platforms. Nestled among the leaves, the longest and speediest zipline is a whopping 400 metres long. There are also three abseil points along the zipline, with the longest drop at 40 metres. Hanuman's final adventure is the 'roller zipline' which is hailed as the highest speed zipline of its kind in Thailand. The route is 800 metres long but swerves around the trees like a rollercoaster. At 40km/h, the ride flung me from side to side - just like mythical monkey god Hanuman would. On the south of the island, Phromthep Cape is regarded as one of the island's most photographed spots. Despite heavy crowds, the extravagant coastline is a great way to relax and enjoy the moment. Visitors can stand from the top viewing section or can brave the trek to the end of the cape. Stunning views of Kata Beach can be seen from Karon Viewpoint which showcases the curves of the beaches stretching from Karon to Kata. The Big Buddha stands proudly between Karon and Kata Beach at a staggering 45 metres tall. From the top of Nakkerd Hills, the sacred site offers some of the best views of the island. The Buddha, made from concrete and layered in white jade marble, was constructed in 2004 and attracts thousands of visitors each day. The site is also home to a number of smaller statues including Buddhas that represent each day of the week. In awe of the remarkable structure, I was also met with stunning views of Phuket's clear-blue waters. Gold-hearts are hung to trees and fences around the vicinity, allowing the hundreds of thousands of visitors to leave their mark. 'Here's to being present and taking in all that is in front of me. Thankful for these blue skies,' one heart read. Most Australian's who've visited Phuket recall the hustle and bustle of Patong beach and its main strip Bangla Road, which hosts a string of nightclubs and bars where revellers can let loose.  I was tempted by the lights and noise of the beach's bustling nightlife but was excited to learn I'd found myself in a hotel of a somewhat hidden oasis, where I was able to take a breath of fresh air.   OZO Phuket, Kata's Beach's newest resort by ONYX Hospitality Group, opened its doors in June and is centrally located on Kata Road, directly across from lively restaurants and bars.   During my stay, I ventured across the road to one of the thousands of 7-Eleven stores sprawled across the country to taste test their range of sought-after toasted sandwiches. I treated myself to a 90-minute head and foot massage, as well as a manicure and pedicure, at one of the many parlours in the vicinity. When darkness invaded the skies, I went for a two-minute walk down the road to the thriving Kata night market. Upon stepping into the contemporary open-plan reception space of OZO Phuket, I was greeted with a smile and 'Sawasdee' – an immediate promise I'm in safe hands. Aiding the comfort of security, there's only one other entry/exit point - a convenient keycard accessed back door that leads directly to the ocean. There are 255 guest rooms at the hotel, fitted with the necessities for a great night's sleep. A thick curtain covers the extravagant window, providing the flexibility to enjoy natural light or a pitch-black sleeping cave.  I was particularly excited by the flat-screen TV, fixed with a chromecast, which pulls out from the wall. Just remember to push the clever bit of furniture back where it belongs before bending down into your suitcase and returning to standing position with a bump on your head.  The hotel's restaurant, appropriately named EAT, serves Asian and western favourites with à la carte dining all-day. For a pre-dinner treat, I enjoyed a mai thai cocktail by the pool while the sun went down.  The hotel is fitted with two pools - a free form main pool and a splash activity pool. The latter includes a waterslide (which I spent way too much time enjoying), water polo net and a water play feature for the kids. Guests can also escape the humidity in the 'chill room' with iMac work stations and where I challenged an employee to a game of pool. OZO Phuket's general manager Paul Halford is passionate about reducing his plastic footprint and has taken the mentality into the hotel's management. Check-in is paperless, the bar uses bamboo straws, biodegradable bags are in bathrooms – and he's even managed to source locally made plant-based water bottles. Mr Halford said: 'The hotel's location is amazing, with attractions and eateries for the whole family to enjoy, a relaxed vibe and the pristine white sands of Kata Beach just a short stroll away.'  On the west coast of the island, OZO Phuket is a two-minute stroll from the stretch of sand that is Kata Beach. The 1.5 kilometre beach is renown as one of Phuket's greatest ocean shores to hit the surf, with perfect swells more common during the wet season. The clear-blue beachfront is also a great place to engage with the locals who sell produce and fruit juices on the edge of the golden sands. With the sand between my toes, I was able to unwind by walking along the stretch of sand. Alternatively, I'd recommend a good book and to watch on as the waves roll in. I visited Phuket in June, during the low and wet season. While it rained every day during my stay, it never dampened my experience. It would pour for about 20 minutes before clear-skies would resurface and dry up the momentary gloom. Visitors typically flock to Phuket from November to February, during the high-season, but the country still manages to attract large crowds all year round.  To celebrate its opening, OZO Phuket is offering a special introductory rate starting at 90 AUD per room per night on room only basis.  The offer represents 25 per cent savings from the usual rates and is valid for bookings made by 31 August 2019 for a stay period until 31 October 2019.  With regular sales on airfare tickets from budget airlines like Jetstar, Daily Mail Australia recommends you get in on the deal before it runs out.    This writer was a guest at OZO Phuket with ONYX Hospitality Group.   
