food reviews
{ By Jane Denton For Thisismoney   Published:  10:51, 19 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-7264133/SSP-warns-lose-airport-sales-wake-Boeings-737-Max-jet-crisis.html }
The fallout from Boeing's Max 737 jet crisis has hit SSP Group, which owns the airport and train station stalwarts Upper Crust and Caffe Ritazza. In its third quarter trading update today, SSP cautioned that the sandwich and coffee shops at some of its airports, and particularly those in the US and Canada, had been 'impacted by the grounding of Boeing Max 737 aircraft and the transfer of passengers away from our terminals.' Boeing's 737 Max planes were grounded after one crashed in Indonesia in October, and another in Ethiopia in March, killing 346 people.  While SSP revealed its bottom line had been hit by the fallout from the Boeing crisis, the group, which recently snapped up Jamie's Italian restaurant at Gatwick airport, said its overall sales were up in the three months to 30 June. The group's sales rose 9.2 per cent in the period, with like-for-like revenues up 2 per cent.  The company also benefited from the falling pound thanks to its large international base, as foreign currency collected overseas is subsequently converted into sterling. In the UK, bosses said sales in airports had been stronger compared with its stores in railway stations, and, in the rest of Europe, sales struggled in Spain and Nordic countries due to refurbishment work at airports. SSP enjoyed strong growth in Egypt and the Middle East, but slower business in China and India. For the nine-month period to June 30 sales rose by 7.6 per cent and bosses predict full-year results will be in line with expectations. On the falling pound, which hit two-year lows against the dollar this week, the SSP said: 'If the current ... rates were to continue for the rest of 2019, we would expect a slightly positive effect for the full year of around 0.5%.' This morning, SSP's share price is up 1.32 per cent or 9.00p to 690.00p.  Analyst Russ Mould from AJ Bell said: 'SSP Group runs many of the food outlets in global airports as well as other transport hubs such as railway stations. 'Nourished by franchise or licence agreements to use many well-known brands including M&S Food, Starbucks, Burger King and Yo! Sushi alongside its own brands (Upper Crust and Caffe Ritazza), the company has an enviable track record of growth. 'Today’s third quarter update is very much business as usual with a solid revenue performance unveiled. 'But SSP is not immune to what is happening in the airline industry; as it does rely on footfall through airports, the recent grounding of Boeing 737 planes on safety concerns had some impact.' While SSP's latest quarterly results remain largely upbeat, they still signal the growing fallout from the Boeing 737 Max jet crisis. Earlier this week, budget airline Ryanair revealed that would be flying 5million fewer passengers than planned this year, owing to delayed deliveries of Boeing’s grounded 737 Max aircraft. Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier was expecting to bring the first five of 135 planes on order into service this year, and 58 by next summer. On Tuesday it said that on a 'prudent' estimate it would have about half that number but there were no guarantees.  Last night, Boeing revealed it had been forced to set aside $4.9billion, or £3.9billion, to cover costs and compensation payouts to airline clients affected by the global grounding of the 737 Max jets.  The Chicago-based plane maker said the grounding of its 737 Max jets will shed $5.5billion, or £4.5billion, off its second quarter results.  The company, which is publishing its quarterly results on 24 July, said it based its calculations on the assumption that the 737 Max jets would be allowed back into service by regulators in the final quarter of this year. The company, which is publishing its quarterly results on 24 July, said it based its calculations on the assumption that the 737 Max jets would be allowed back into service by regulators in the final quarter of this year.  Boeing also warned that 'any changes to these assumptions could result in additional financial impact.'  The final quarter estimate for the planes to go back into service is earlier than some analysts expected and may have contributed to a rally in Boeing shares by 2 per cent to $368 each in after-hours trading.  Even so, the scale of the estimated hit to the bottom line brings home the magnitude of the crisis Boeing is facing, with its fastest selling jets currently grounded worldwide. The $4.9billion being set aside by the company to compensate clients equates to $8.74 a share. The figures also do not include cash being set aside for payouts to victims' families filing lawsuits. Earlier this week, the company hired a victims-compensation expert to oversee a relief fund for families, which the company said was separate from the lawsuits. 'We remain focused on safely returning the 737 MAX to service,' Boeing's chairman president and chief executive Dennis Muilenburg said. He added: 'This is a defining moment for Boeing. Nothing is more important to us than the safety of the flight crews and passengers who fly on our airplanes.  'The MAX grounding presents significant headwinds and the financial impact recognized this quarter reflects the current challenges and helps to address future financial risks.' The 737 Max planes were grounded after one crashed in Indonesia in October, and another in Ethiopia in March, killing 346 people.  The bulk of the $4.9billion charge will be used to compensate Boeing's airline customers for schedule disruptions and delays in aircraft deliveries.  Speaking to This is Money, aviation analyst Alex Macheras, said: 'Boeing’s expectations of a $5.6 billion hit following the grounding of the 737 MAX is without factoring in the $100 million it will be paying to crash victims’ families, plus the costs from lawsuits.  Speaking to This is Money, Rhys Jones of website Head for Points, said: 'Just as passengers can expect compensation under EU law for flight delays and cancellations, airlines are also protected against late or suspended delivery of aircraft from manufacturers.  'Boeing is setting this money aside to pay airlines for the fact that their schedules are now disrupted, or for any future costs related to the disruption, such as having to re-train pilots and crew. Interestingly, this charge is more than double what it cost Boeing to engineer the aircraft in the first place, which just goes to show how disruptive the whole 737 Max crisis is. 'Ryanair was expecting up to 58 737 Max aircraft to be delivered by next summer but nobody knows for sure when a fix for the problem will occur. 'Currently, Ryanair's new aircraft are sitting on an employee car park outside Boeing's manufacturing facilities, which is running out of space to park the affected aircraft it is still producing. Unfortunately, due to the long-term nature of the disruption, you won't see any of the money Boeing has set aside if you have been inconvenienced by having your Ryanair 737 Max flight cancelled.' 'Around 40 separate claims are being filed against Boeing by the families, and lawsuits have been filed in the US, Indonesia, Kenya, France, Ethiopia, and other countries.  'In addition to this, shareholders have lawsuits against Boeing, alleging that they were defrauded over the 737 Max's safety deficiencies, claiming Boeing "effectively put profitability and growth ahead of aircraft safety and honesty'.' Machereas thinks the reputational damage caused by the accidents could lead to the 737 Max jets being re-branded by Beoing as they try to distance themselves from the crisis. Bosses of Kenya Airways and Qatar Airways have both told the aviation expert they think a re-brand for the planes will be essential.  Speaking to This is Money, the European Union Aviation Safety Agency said: 'EASA is currently performing a review of the design of the Boeing 737 MAX and is in continuous contact with both Boeing and the FAA to ensure the safe return to flight.  'Our reviews are based on technical and operational analysis, and are not dictated by external considerations. We continue to work on having the Boeing 737 MAX return to service as soon as possible, but only once there is complete reassurance that it is safe.' 
