{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  15:59, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-7961657/Britains-wonkiest-house-old-village-featured-Harry-Potter-goes-sale-525-000.html }
Britain's wonkiest house, which is thought to be more than 600 years old and based in a picturesque medieval village that featured in a Harry Potter film, has gone on sale for £525,000. The Crooked House (middle) is an ancient Grade II-listed building in Lavenham, Suffolk believed to date as far back as 1395. Click through to see inside the quirky property... A quirky half-timbered house painted in a vibrant orange, the Crooked House - which looks as if it is leaning against other buildings down the High Street - can't help but catch the eye. The medieval property is thought to be the inspiration for the classic children's nursery rhyme There Was a Crooked Man. The Crooked House boasts a quaint dining room and kitchen on the ground floor, and two bedrooms on the first floor, used as residential accommodation whilst home to Munnings Tea Room (bedroom with bath pictured). Antique and even otherworldly in style, the Crooked House is a less-than five-minute walk to De Vere House, used as Godric's Hollow in the film adaptations of JK Rowling's much-loved Harry Potter novels (dining room pictured). The wonky house, which at one time was also an art gallery, became home to Munnings Tea Room after 2004, and received over 400 positive reviews on TripAdvisor after the tearoom moved to Lavenham. It even has a garden to its west, perfect for smoking out meat on BBQ ovens during the hot summer months, and for creating a Winter Wonderland during the cold winter season. Used as a tearoom in recent years, the building has now been listed with estate agency Carter Jonas, hoping to make £525,000 from the sale of the iconic 1,144 sq ft fairy-tale property (dining room). The Crooked House appears to rest and rub up against adjacent other as green timber, which contains more moisture, was used in its construction, eventually twisting and giving the building its warped shape (entry to tearoom pictured). Munnings Tea Room failed a Food Standards Agency inspection last year, giving it a zero mark out of five, after inspectors uncovered mouldy food deemed unfit for human consumption (kitchen pictured). Lavenham was the home of the 19th-century poet Jane Taylor, who is believed to have penned the words to Twinkle Twinkle Little Star there. The Crooked House takes center stage down Lavenham High Street. Floor plan of the Crooked House, which is thought to have inspired the nursery rhyme There Was A Crooked House. The vendor can expect a dining room (currently the tearoom), a kitchen, and two bedrooms. 
