{ By Ben Spencer for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:47, 16 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7254331/Two-homes-proud-owners-sold-pay-crippling-dementia-care-costs.html }
The Daily Mail today calls on ministers to end the disgraceful neglect of families living with the burden of dementia. We have been inundated with letters from readers after revealing that families spent £15billion over the past two years supporting relatives who have the illness. Many sufferers have had to sell their homes to pay for care. In a further insult, they then effectively subsidise council-funded places in the same residential homes. A plan to fix the broken care system was promised in March 2017 – but the resulting green paper has been delayed six times, with no sign of when it will be published. With a new prime minister taking over next week, the Mail demands: Charities, think-tanks, academics and politicians of all parties last night backed the Mail's stand. 'People with dementia have struggled enough – draining their savings on care while people with other diseases get support free on the NHS,' said Sally Copley of the Alzheimer's Society. 'How many more billions do they have to spend before the Government takes action? 'The next prime minister needs to take charge and announce a plan to end the tax on dementia. 'This will change the lives of so many families with dementia up and down the country, who have been neglected and abandoned for too long.' The delayed green paper is just the latest in 22 years of government commissions, reviews and proposals, all of which have been shelved or dropped. Experts say politicians have reached stalemate and the only way to make progress is with a cross-party solution. The middle classes have borne the brunt of the crisis, with many families denied the chance of handing their house to their children. Anyone with more than £23,250 in assets – including the value of their home – has to pay the full cost of their care, which can reach £100,000 a year. And when they sell up and go into a home they end up subsidising those whose support is state-funded. A self-funded room costs an average of £43,993 a year, 36 per cent more than an identical room paid for by a local council. Around 180,000 dementia patients live in care homes in England and 74,000 of them pay all the fees themselves. Many of the remaining 106,000 only get part of their costs paid. The Government says the social care green paper will be published at the 'earliest opportunity'. But the Mail insists a fresh, cross-party approach is needed. Caroline Abrahams, charity director of Age UK, said: 'For far too long successive governments have rejected our pleas for social care refinancing and far-reaching reform, but surely now the game is up. 'MPs on all sides know of too many older people and families in their own back yards who are struggling without the care they need, or watching with horror as their lifetime savings disappear to fund sky high care bills. 'The Government should listen to them and shame any party which dares to play politics with the issue.' Ian Hudspeth of the Local Government Association said: 'We support the Mail's call for a cross-party consensus to resolve the social care crisis. What we need is answers and certainty.' And Richard Murray, of the King's Fund think-tank, said: 'Reforming social care is now one of the most urgent and important social policy issues facing the country and should be at the top of the agenda for the new prime minister. 'The social care system is no longer fit for purpose. It is failing the people who use it, their families and carers, and is widely regarded by those who understand the system as inadequate, confusing and unfair.' A YouGov poll of 101 MPs, commissioned by the Alzheimer's Society, reveals that 77 per cent believe social care is underfunded, including a majority from all parties. Tory MP Andrea Jenkyns said: 'The next Government will have to think out of the box and find support over measures to improve social care funding mechanisms' A spokesman for the Department of Health and Social Care said: 'We have given local authorities access to up to £3.9billion more dedicated funding for adult social care this year, and a further £410million is available for adults and children's services. 'We will set out our plans to reform the system at the earliest opportunity to protect people from high and unpredictable costs.'  War veteran's dream thatched cottage sold to pay for his own care by SHARON MURANYI, from Worcester My father, Fred, was a World War II veteran who later served in the police force. He was diagnosed with vascular dementia in 2016. By May 2018, his condition had deteriorated significantly and he had to move into a dementia care home. All of his police and state pension was spent on his £1,200 per week fees, but it still wasn't enough. And last week we finally sold the beloved thatched cottage that he renovated in 1974 and once served as our family home, for £373,000. So far, we've had to pay £120,000 — and at the age of 92, he's physically fit despite the dementia and there's every chance he'll continue living for a few more years. As well as the care home costs, we also have to pay for toiletries, trips out, haircuts, dentist visits and chiropodist's appointments. Who knows how much more of his money will have to be spent on his care? My father was prudent saver but now it feels like he is being penalised for it. If the State can fund those with less than £23,250, why does my father have to pay extra to cover their costs? Have the politicians thought about the distress this will cause a man in his 90s, who will potentially have deteriorated further? He spent his life in public service. But when he needed it most, he was deserted. A small fortune gone – and now nothing to pass on . . .   by Jane Fryer for the Daily Mail Juanita 'Nita' Elizabeth Toole is 93 years old and has suffered from vascular dementia for 14 years. She is doubly incontinent, can form only a few words and sounds, derives no enjoyment from music, sun, food or company and has been unable to recognise her only child, Christine, for several years. 'She doesn't even know what food is any more,' says Christine, 64. 'She looks like a caged animal. She doesn't recognise anyone but keeps shouting, 'Home! Home!' ' In her 'other life', as Christine calls it, Nita Toole was a driven, exacting and immaculately presented woman who, for nearly half a century, rose at 5am, six days a week, to work in the family business, a large and thriving greengrocers on London's Gloucester Road. Neither Nita nor her late husband Alfred took a single holiday during their working lives. She never once called in sick and Sundays were invariably spent replenishing the shelves and lugging around crates of apples and sacks of potatoes. To say she was frugal would be an understatement. 'She had an extraordinary work ethic, but it was important to them to work and save, so they had their own home and security and something to pass on,' says Christine. Which is why her decision to sell her mother's semi-detached house in Middlesex, in 2009, to pay for her ongoing care in a £35,000-a-year home in Colchester was so painful. To date, she has spent £300,000 of her parents' money on her mother's care. Nita was born in 1926, the third generation of a family who gave their all to the family business. She left school aged just 13 to join the war effort in 1939 — making fire extinguishers in the Pyrene Factory in Brentford — but as the men in the family shop were called up for duty, she was needed to move barrowloads of potatoes at Covent Garden Market, stacking shelves, and serving customers, alongside her mother. She met her Alfred — a dashing young chap from Bomber Command who roared about on a motorbike and worked as a peat salesman — towards the end of the war. They were married in 1951 and soon took over the family business, which was sold to them — at full market price — by Nita's parents. And that was that. The gruelling hours began in earnest. 'They worked so hard I barely saw them' says Christine (who was born in 1955). But they saved every penny and, in 1952 with the help of a huge mortgage, bought their pride and joy — a three-bedroom semi-detached house in Norwood Green, Southall, that cost £2,000. To make ends meet, they rented out the upstairs of the house to Alfred's brother and his wife and carried on working. Until 1969, when Alfred suffered a massive heart attack. 'He was in constant pain and incredibly frustrated because he couldn't lift anything at all,' says Christine. 'It ruined him.' Meanwhile, Nita ran the shop alone, pushing the potato barrow at Covent Garden Market, ordering the stock and roping in Christine, who was just 13, to help. In 1985 they finally sold the business, paid off their remaining mortgage and, with a few stocks and shares, were comfortably off. And rightly so. But they weren't the sort to splurge on flash cars (they had an old Honda) or expensive trips — though they did take a couple of holidays to Devon and Nita enjoyed pottering about in her garden. Sadly, it was short-lived. Just two years after they'd retired, Alfred died. Again, Nita bounced back. She joined the local Women's Institute and was soon Chair of her branch. She gardened, she doted on her grandchildren and made her only foray overseas — a day trip to Holland with Christine. But then, in 2005, she started showing symptoms of dementia. 'Mum started forgetting things,' says Christine. 'Dents started appearing in the car. She burned saucepans.' So Christine and her husband Graham arranged for private carers to come in, three times a day, every day, for the next two years — to cook and make sure that Nita took her tablets. It cost a small fortune but, long before her mind had started to fail, Nita had the foresight to arrange for power of attorney over her affairs — so Christine could access her savings to pay the carers. (With the help of her solicitor and doctor, she drafted a Living Will or Advance Decision To Refuse Treatment, which stipulated that she did not want to be resuscitated as a result of suffering from pneumonia, dementia or a muscle-wasting disease.) Meanwhile, her health deteriorated. 'She'd take a bus and get lost and not be able to find her way home,' says Christine. She refused to give up driving, so in the end Christine and Graham took her keys. In 2008, her doctor referred her for hospital tests where a brain scan confirmed vascular dementia. 'We were told they could do nothing more for her and that she should be moved into a home,' said Christine. And there began the nightmare of finding a suitable home. The smell as they opened the front door at one was so bad they didn't bother even going in. In another, dementia patients were 'locked in an annex, like animals'. Eventually, though, they found a nice home near them in Colchester which cost £35,000 a year. And so, in 2009, they sold Nita's home for £300,000, and started spending the proceeds on her care. After four years, they realised it wouldn't last. So they moved her to cheaper home, at £27,000 a year. 'We were lucky to get her in there,' says Christine. 'It had just been refurbished.' Over the past ten years Nita has had pneumonia, suffered endless bladder infections and had fallen and broken her hip. For a long time now, her day-to-day existence has been little more than a blur, nowadays she can't make conversation. 'She sits comatose in a chair all day,' says Christine. 'She can't take solid foods any more so they feed her pureed mush. 'She's lost her dentures and broken her glasses and doesn't respond to anything or anyone.' She is also doubly incontinent. 'This is no life at all,' says Christine. 'She's in a terrible state. It is so undignified and it is exactly what she wanted to protect against.' (While a correct legal document, Nita's 'Living Will' counts for nothing and although Christine has shown it to doctors and begged they follow her mother's wishes if her condition deteriorates, they have repeatedly told her they won't do it.) 'We are powerless to do anything,' she says. 'Other than just keep paying.' Nita is just one of two residents in her home who is self funding — at £27,000 a year. The £23,250 care cost threshold means every penny of her assets above that — which she and Alfred worked for all their hard-working lives — is liable to be poured into the cost of her care. Other residents are funded by the local authority. While Christine insists she and Graham, a retired civil engineer, can manage without any of her rightful inheritance, she knows her parents would have been devastated to see their life's earnings — that they worked so desperately hard for — being whittled away. 'They never really had time to enjoy it together, so I know my dad would have wanted us to have the money,' says Christine. They don't for a second expect to pay nothing. This is a hard-working, tax-paying family that has always been happy to contribute to society. They would just like the system to be fairer. So far, she and Graham have paid more than £300,000 towards Nita's care. There is some left, but not much. 'The government have been talking about capping care home fees for five or six years now,' says Graham. 'To think there could be a limit to what we have to pay — not just an unending liability until she dies or the money runs out — would be a start.' 'We feel she's being penalised for working so hard all those years and is now subsidising those who didn't bother,' says Christine. 'But we have no choice.' Meanwhile, Christine has become increasingly worried about her own health, which has taken a sharp dip in recent years. As well as juggling visits to her mother with helping to care for her grandchildren, she has been in and out of hospital for a raft of tests. 'I could see me going before Mum,' she warns. But it is her mother's poor health that keeps Christine up at night. This, ultimately, is the grim reality caused by our dementia care system. Broken doesn't even begin to describe it. I’ve lost Nancy to dementia. Why are we losing our life savings too?  by Miles Dilworth for the Daily Mail    A war veteran has said he feels abandoned by the Government after having to spend more than £100,000 on his wife’s care. Geoffrey Price, 86, looked after his wife Nancy, also 86, at their family home in Bristol for almost four decades after she was diagnosed with early onset dementia aged just 42. But ten years ago, her condition began to deteriorate and doctors insisted she be put into care. She has lived in The Grove care home in Bristol for the past five years, at great cost to her family. Mr Price, who served on a naval frigate during the Korean conflict, is paying £555 a month to keep her in the home – which amounts to almost half of his £14,000 annual pension. It has also chewed up some of the savings he was hoping to leave for his sons Stephen, 60, and Brett, 55, and his three granddaughters and three great-grandsons. The retired policeman, who has Alzheimer’s disease, said that he feels let down by the Government’s inaction. He said: ‘They say healthcare should be free at the point of delivery. Well it hasn’t been for some time, but this is the first time the Government has turned around and said, “b******s to you, you’re on your own now”.’ Mr Price says he has spent a total of £107,000 on Nancy’s care. The council contributes around £3,000 a month towards her costs through the NHS continuing healthcare fund. Although Nancy struggles to remember much from her past, Mr Price still makes a point of visiting every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning. ‘She is happy as she can be, which has its limits,’ he said. ‘She can’t talk so when I go to visit her in the home we just sit together holding hands. ‘For the first ten years she was perfectly normal,’ he said. ‘I could play golf two to three times a week and she could sit in the house by herself no problem at all. She was just a bit vague and had problems recognising people or names. She was a wonderful woman. She adored her children. She was a wonderful mother. ‘But she gradually got worse over the years. In the last ten years or so before she was put into the home she started to believe that her mother was still alive. If I took my eyes off her for ten seconds I would have to go looking for her because she would wander off. I would often have to call the police. ‘Quite simply her health got very, very bad. She would wake up feeling like she was at death’s door three to four times a week. She would ask me to call the doctor, but when he came over he would say there was nothing wrong with her physically. It was just her mental state. ‘They were seriously considering declaring her insane. She wasn’t insane, she was just ill. But the medical people almost insisted that she be put into a home. Eventually I decided she would need to go into a home to be looked after properly because I just couldn’t leave her alone.’ Mr Price has no complaints about the quality of her care at The Grove, which he describes as ‘pretty good’ – but he is increasingly anxious that his savings will soon run out. ‘Fortunately I could see this coming for quite a while, so I had prepared myself financially,’ he said. ‘I saved hard during the years when her health was getting worse, but of course I am worried about the money.’ Mr Price, who also served in the Navy in Suez when he was in his late teens, said his wife worked three days a week in a jewellery shop when she was younger, which ‘she really loved’. Speaking about the care she receives at The Grove, he said: ‘Considering there are around 35 other patients in the home, all of whom have got to be looked after in their own way, I have no complaints. She has her own bedroom and bathroom connected. She’s very comfortable.’ Agony of patients who fear care bills   by Ben Spencer and Sophie Borland for the Daily Mail  A third of dementia patients fear they will not be properly looked after because of the huge financial bill, a poll reveals today. It adds that more than half worry about having to move into a care home while half dread being a burden on loved ones. One in four are concerned they will not have enough money to live on and 55 per cent feel depressed or anxious some of the time. The survey by the Alzheimer’s Society emphasises the financial anguish faced by those living with the illness. Not only must they come to terms with the devastating diagnosis, they also have to work out how to fund the escalating bills. The average cost of care for someone with dementia is £100,000 during their lifetime although many end up paying substantially more. Some struggle to afford the basic adaptations to their homes, such as stairlifts, handrails and bath-steps, which prevent serious falls. The survey of 320 patients also reveals worries about losing their memory and being cut off by loved ones and neighbours. More than half – 57 per cent – felt lonely and a third said they were already emotionally distant from their friends. Another 46 per cent said people no longer thought of them in the same way and a fifth felt they were losing connection with their community. Professor Robert Howard said: ‘Without a cure or treatments that make more than a modest difference, the burden of care falls upon families, underfunded social care and an NHS that finds itself having to reluctantly step in when there’s a crisis.’ The professor, an expert in old age psychiatry at University College London, added: ‘The painful truth is we don’t give older people, the illnesses they suffer from and their families the priority they deserve. ‘People with dementia and their families deserve better and it is truly time for change.’ Scott Sinclair, of Marie Curie, which supports patients with terminal illnesses, said: ‘The Government is not spending enough ensuring that patients with dementia are receiving the appropriate level of care. ‘We’ve known for some time that people with dementia are less likely to have access to specialist care. Despite having complex needs, chronic pain and psychiatric symptoms, most of the healthcare received in the later stages of dementia is provided by GPs or emergency services, with little support from specialists.’ Sally Copley, of the Alzheimer’s Society, said: ‘We often hear from people with dementia about how terrified they are of not having enough to live on and their fear for their future because of the care they need. ‘No one would question that people with dementia have a right to care but the extortionate price it comes with means many are denied that right. ‘It is shocking over a third of people with dementia are worried about not getting the care they need because of the overwhelming costs that result from the broken and underfunded social care system. ‘What does it take to give the 850,000 people with dementia in the UK access to what they fundamentally deserve? A fair and just social care system.’  A monstrous tax on being ill is robbing hard-working families of their life savings. It shames us all  Commentary by Baroness Altmann The cruel way our country treats elderly dementia patients, levying what amounts to stealth taxes and siphoning off their life savings, is a disgrace reminiscent of Victorian Britain. We should be ashamed of the way that successive governments have ignored the scandal for decades, allowing a broken system to fester that strips hard-working families of their assets. The unfairness is a shameful secret, one that many people don’t discover until it’s too late and they are caught in the financial trap. That’s why the Mail’s dementia campaign should be welcomed by all. Everyone needs to understand how appalling and unfit for purpose the care system is. For too long, the Government has dithered over its green paper on social care, which has been postponed six times since its arrival was announced in March 2017. Every delay is yet another blow for families who face seeing a loved-ones’ hard-earned savings disappear. It is also imperative that we put pressure on the Treasury to ring-fence funding so that people with dementia can benefit from state care without being at risk of losing everything they own – including their homes. At the moment, Alzheimer’s disease and other infirmities of old age are insensitively regarded as the ‘wrong’ kind of illness. A millionaire who contracts cancer can expect the best treatment available on the NHS, without having to fund it personally. All the costs are met by the tax system, with care free at the point of need. But the same millionaire, or indeed an elderly widow, will have to pay and pay again. Only when almost all their savings and assets are whittled down to £23,250 will the local authority step in and meet the costs. To make the system doubly unfair, anyone with money to meet their own care costs has to pay extra to subsidise those of others. Suppose, for example, the weekly cost of care in a local authority home is £500, but the council only pays £300 for each individual. Who makes up the £200 shortfall? The answer: anyone in the care system with money left over. That’s why private individuals are charged £800 or more a week. And that’s if they’re lucky. It’s not unknown in some districts for people in care homes to be expected to contribute £1,500 a week. That is effectively a grotesque type of tax – one that you only have to pay if you are hit by the ‘wrong type’ of illness. Last week, this newspaper revealed that, in total, families spent £15billion on dementia care in the two years that they have been waiting for ministers to reform social care. How monstrous. How unworthy of our country. When William Beveridge devised the basis of the welfare state in 1942, to fight the five ‘giant evils’ of ‘want, disease, ignorance, squalor and idleness’, he could not have imagined the dementia crisis to come. In the 1940s, it was rare for people to live into their late-eighties and beyond, and perhaps spend years in a care home, unable to fend for themselves. There were no mass-produced antibiotics. Cancer treatments were rudimentary. When frail elderly people became ill, they either recovered or they died. They did not continue to live for years. Divorce and family breakdown were also rare back then, and people tended to live in one area all their lives. As a consequence, it was much more common for people with dementia to be cared for by relatives. Those who had no-one and nothing would have to apply to their local council. Beveridge would be horrified to see the modern day realities of local care. Cash-strapped councils treating dementia patients like second-class citizens have had to cut back on the services that used to help people manage independently, such as Meals On Wheels or home adaptations. That leaves elderly people at greater risk and without preventative measures which keep them safer and healthier. Rather than working with hospitals to provide the best possible service, councils have a financial interest in elderly patients staying in hospital longer. They only pick up the cost when the poorer people leave the NHS. Is it any wonder that it takes so long to make care arrangements? This not only places the patient at greater risk of picking up an infection but also exacerbates the current beds crisis in the NHS. In sum, everybody loses. And yet all this could have been prevented if government had come up with a plan to accommodate the problems of an ageing population. Around six million baby-boomers, born between the end of the Second World War and the start of the 1960s, are now retired or getting close to retirement. No one can say this has come as a surprise. The demographic timebomb has been ticking for a long time. Financial provision should have been made long ago. The first Royal Commission on long-term care highlighted this in 1999, and successive reviews and committees made the point with increasing urgency. The truth now is that even if the Government addresses the emergency and increases National Insurance payments or tax to meet the costs, baby-boomers are now dropping out of the working population. The burden will fall on younger generations – yet one more layer of unfairness. Expecting local authorities to pay the costs by increasing council taxes won’t work either. Areas with the highest costs for dementia care tend to be those with the oldest average populations and the highest proportion of pensioners – those least able to pay more. It’s a grim contradiction: the more money councils need, the less they can raise, without punishing people for getting ill. The Government must step in. Social care cannot just be left to councils. Our antiquated system, the last vestige of the Poor Laws, has to be swept away with the proper integration between healthcare and social care. We must end the artificial distinction between different illnesses. We need to end the postcode lottery. And personal care must be free not only in Scotland but across the whole country. Indeed, I believe most people in this country would support a national initiative that ensures everyone contributes to the cost of care. Yet politicians blithely ignore the crisis, perhaps because it isn’t a vote-winner or because they know people tend to instinctively shy away from thinking about whether they might need dementia care one day. Of course, there’s no single answer to solve the care crisis. For instance, subsidised equity release or life insurance policies that pay out early if long-term care is required. We already have provision for people to withdraw part of their pension pots. That could be extended to enable people to withdraw money tax-free to fund any care needs: in some cases, this might help families to keep their homes. And financial advisers should give much better advice about the costs of late-life care. Instead of withdrawing tax-free lump sums from pensions to pay for kitchens or cruises, many people would be much wiser to keep the nest-egg for care home costs. Incentives for people to keep their ISAs as ‘a Care Fund’ rather than spending them would also help. But none of this will matter if the Government doesn’t take action now. People with dementia are our loved ones, our family and friends – possibly even our own selves, now or in the future. They are not packages to be shuffled and shelved at the lowest cost and the least convenience. We need to bring back a sense of humanity and pride in this crisis – because at the moment, it is a source of nothing but shame. Ros Altmann is a former pensions minister Dementia care: your fury  Following new figures showing an increase in the number of people suffering from dementia, the Mail’s Sarah Vine wrote movingly about how our broken care system is bankrupting hard-working families. She argued it was totally unfair that, even though dementia is a medical condition, unlike other diseases its sufferers and their families have to foot care costs. Her words struck such a chord with Mail readers so infuriated by the scandalous cost of caring for their loved-ones that they wrote to us in their hundreds. Here we present just a small selection of your letters...  THE WRONG PRIORITIES My wife’s dementia care has cost us £50,000 per year since 2008. Given the government manages to find billions for vanity projects like HS2, funding a decent care system shouldn’t be a problem. BRIAN HENDY, Romsey, Hampshire. My father-in-law fought in D-Day and later served for 30 years in the police force. His one ambition was to own a house, which he eventually achieved after many years. But as he grew old, he was admitted to a care home with dementia. Their very modest savings were soon exhausted and they had to sell their beloved home. Surely our elderly deserve better than this? JAY BEE, address supplied. HEEDING BAD ADVICE My mother is 87 years old and has only made one big mistake in her life: to heed the advice of the State and save for her old age. She didn’t drink, didn’t smoke and was frugal with her earnings. But three years ago she was diagnosed with dementia and is now paying nearly £1,000 per week in care. The mental anguish this has caused her is nothing short of a scandal. STEVE CURD, Epsom, Surrey. After my father died when I was a child, my mother worked seven days a week to keep a roof over our heads. She eventually saved up for a home, but never had anything else. But now that she has dementia, we have had to put her beloved house on the market to pay for her care. We have done everything right in our lives but are still the losers. CHRISTINE PARRY, St Albans, Herts. My wife was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in early 2006 and I cared for her at home until I had to seek professional help in 2011. It was the worst decision I have ever had to make.  She passed away in 2016, after we had paid £121,276.16 in fees — while a friend’s mother, who had no savings, paid nothing. Where’s the justice in that? TONY MANSFIELD, Stanton, Suffolk. MUM'S HOME WILL GO TO My mother was diagnosed with dementia about eight years ago and lived with me for over five years. But it became too much and we had to put her in a care home. I understand that there has to be a line somewhere, but because my parents were diligent with their finances, she does not creep under the £23,000 threshold. All they worked so hard for is now being ploughed into her care — and eventually her home will have to go. VANESSA, Taunton, Somerset. WE ARE LEFT TO STRUGGLE  I have tried three times to get nursing care for my dear wife — only to be told that her needs were insufficient. I have now paid over £100,000 for my wife’s care — and some have paid a great deal more! DONALD BROADLEY, Warrington, Cheshire. For years I acted as the main carer for my wife who has Alzheimer’s. But in 2016 I fell on the staircase, injured my back and broke my ribs. At that point, my daughter stepped in and secured my wife a place in a care home. This September will mark three years since we started paying for her care, while others have been supported by the care system. How is that fair? RON SYKES, Draycott. Derbyshire. In 2011, my father had a stroke and was in hospital for three months, where it became clear he was also suffering from vascular dementia. He moved into a care home and by the time he died four years later, had incurred costs of £126,000. This is totally unacceptable. GRAHAM BENJAMIN, Hampshire. ALZHEIMER’S VICTIM My husband had Alzheimer’s and was in care from December 2016 to March 2018. His care costs during this period totalled £75,670. J.G., Bagshot, Surrey. My mother is 98 and has needed dementia care for the last four years. She has had to pay £150,000 so far and is running out of cash. What really galls me is that politicians and civil servants, with their gold-plated salaries and pensions, constantly ignore this desperate situation. JANE FRASER, London. CAREFUL WITH MONEY My parents from Manchester worked all their lives and were extremely careful with their money. But soon after Dad died, Mum was diagnosed with dementia. We have had to sell their house to fund her care, which costs over £1,000 a week. ALISON HOLLAND, Manchester. My father is 91 and has Alzheimer’s. He has been in a care home for two years, paying the £3,304 monthly costs with his RAF pension and savings. It is outrageous that he is subsidising those sat beside him, many of whom did not save for their future. CAROL BEWLEY, Jedburgh, Scottish Borders. My darling mother has dementia and has been in a nursing home for five and a half years. To date, after selling her home, her fees have amounted to £353,364.49. It is disgraceful that at a time in her life when she should be able to rely on the State, my mother has to finance herself. At the very least, she should be able to claim tax relief on her fees. J. EVANS, Maidstone, Kent. After serving in the Women’s Royal Air Force and working in the NHS, my mother developed dementia at the age of 94. The costs of her care home, about £4,800 per month, quickly used up her savings until I had to sell her house. Why can’t the Government use the billions of pounds spent on foreign aid to treat our elderly patients with dignity? PAUL NICHOLS, Dorset. COMPLEX NEEDS My late mother was diagnosed with dementia roughly nine years ago. Due to her complex needs, she spent her last six years in a care home, with the final bill costing well in excess of £220,000. MARK WEBB, Hornchurch, Essex. My mother and father-in-law managed to buy a house in the late 1940s that they hoped they could pass on to their children. But after my father-in-law died and my mother-in-law was diagnosed with dementia, we had to sell it to fund her care. Rather than buy that house so long ago, they should have just rented one and spent all their money on really enjoying themselves. J. RIGBY, Merseyside. My mother went into a dementia home just after her 91st birthday. We quickly had to sell her home to pay the fees — and in the following four years have paid over £220,000. SHEILA GARDNER, Preston, Lancashire. My husband who has dementia is 77 and needs more care than I can provide. Together we have paid nearly 100 years of National Insurance contributions, yet have to pay for his fees ourselves. What was the point in saving? We are being penalised for being careful and thrifty. JENNY HERRIDGE, Weymouth, Dorset. MARCH 1999: BLAIR’S ROYAL COMMISSION  Within months of New Labour’s election in 1997 Tony Blair said he did not want ‘children brought up in a country where the only way pensioners can get long-term care is by selling their home’. He convened a Royal Commission which recommended that all long-term personal care should be provided free – but in January 2000, the Government rejected this. It was, however, adopted in devolved Scotland.   JULY 2009: LABOUR’S ‘NATIONAL CARE SERVICE’ Labour pledged the creation of a ‘National Care Service’ funded by compulsory payments. The Tories said the plans were a ‘death tax’. Gordon Brown scuppered the plans by saying they would not be introduced for five years. Labour lost the next election. New stealth tax on middle classes to pay for care in old age   JULY 2011: THE DILNOT REVIEW A Coalition-commissioned study by economist Sir Andrew Dilnot called for a cap on the amount people have to pay for care, proposing that the state step in to pay the rest. After several delays, the Tories pledged to introduce this cap at £75,000 by 2016, which was put back to 2020 – then shelved entirely.   MAY 2017: MRS MAY’S DEMENTIA TAX Theresa May’s election manifesto proposed extending the current system so money could be taken from assets to fund home and residential care after someone died – nicknamed the ‘dementia tax’. It prompted a backlash and is considered a crucial factor in the Tories’ reduced majority.  STILL WAITING: TORY SOCIAL CARE GREEN PAPER It was promised in 2017 but has been delayed six times. It is understood to have at its heart a state-backed insurance scheme where people pay into a pot throughout their working lives.    
