food reviews
{ By Mailonline Reporter   Published:  00:01, 15 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7240241/Starpowa-vitamins-Supplements-mums.html }
Everyone knows it: being a mum is one of the toughest jobs in the world. While having a brood obviously has a baby-bag full of benefits, bringing up little ones (or constantly worrying about older ones) can take its toll - and on more than just your sanity! From the completely normal process of postpartum hair loss (more on this later) to dealing with a complexion that has only seen four hours' sleep for months, all mums should have an arsenal of beauty and health hacks at their disposal. Luckily, word is spreading on social media that some mothers already have a secret weapon to keep them looking - and feeling - their best: Starpowa*. These tasty gummy vitamins are the first of their kind and are jam-packed with the vitamins, minerals and nutrients needed to give you longer hair, healthier skin and stronger nails. Thrilled customers already in the know have flocked to Holland & Barrett's website to give it an unstoppable five-star rating - insisting they have also helped boost their energy levels.  So, what makes them so good? We asked two busy super-mothers about why they love Starpowa... Caroline, 40, mother of two, freelancer from London 'After my two pregnancies, I really struggled to bounce back. I always felt tired, my skin was a disaster - really dry, red and blotchy - and it began to make me feel really sad. I just couldn’t seem to find products to help improve the situation; basically, I think all my body's stores had been depleted! 'I have a six and a four year old and suffered from postpartum hair loss after both my pregnancies and it's never really been the same since and was beginning to thin at the front. Postpartum hair loss is a normal and temporary part of the post-birth process. A change in hormones boosts the growth phase of your hair during pregnancy, meaning most women enjoy thicker hair than usual. After giving birth, your hormones change again - meaning a larger number of hairs enter the resting phase, followed by shedding.  This means new mums could experience more hair loss than usual once the resting phase ends.  'Another problem spot I've found as a mum are my nails! I work freelance so am at home most of the day, which means I am in charge of housework and washing up - so they keep chipping and never seem to grow properly. The top layer always seemed to flake off. 'As the kids got a bit older and I had (a bit!) more time, I began making changes to my lifestyle - exercising more and eating better and drinking more water. 'I also started buying vitamins as my doctor had taken blood tests and found that I was low in Vitamin D and iron. Then I found Starpowa online and googled all its ingredients. They seemed to tick every box of what I needed and bought them buy one, get one free. 'You get a 30 day supply and it was my skin that I noticed first of all; it looked clearer and plumper. My hairdresser also mentioned that my hair had grown and seemed much thicker than usual (she's also bought some now!) 'And lastly, my nails look amazing! They actually grow rather than breaking and looking brittle. 'But what I found best with these gummies is that they fit so easily into your day; I take them first thing and they taste lovely, which is a bonus. The number of people I've recommended these to is ridiculous - but the results talk for themselves.' While we're all going to have days when we have to cover up a blemish or let out of a sigh over split ends, the essential vitamins, key minerals, organic compounds and amino acids in Starpowa, alongside a healthy diet, can help provide the nutrients we need on the inside - making it much easier to look great on the outside. And getting your daily dose couldn't be easier - you simply need to add two gummies to your morning routine.  But what are the amazing natural ingredients that give Starpowa its power? Here's the incredible ingredients: Vitamin A - Hydrates skin & scalp Vitamin B6 - Stimulates hair growth Vitamin B12 - Improves nail pigment Vitamin C - Boosts collagen production Vitamin D3 - Helps reduce lines & wrinkles Vitamin E - Reduces thinning hair follicles Iodine - Restores hair strength   Biotin - Boosts growth, thickness & shine  Aloe Vera - Hydrates skin pores MSM - Helps rebuild skin tissue Zinc - Helps fight breakouts  Folic Acid - Promotes nail cell production  Niacin - Increases hair length & conditioning Copper - Helps with anti-aging  To try your Starpowa gummies, head to Holland & Barrett HERE and pick up a 30-day supply for half price (£19.99). Also, check out the amazing reviews from customers already in the know... see a few below! Karen, 55, mother of three from Southport 'I used to have really, really thick hair until I started the menopause. 'I slowly started to notice that it was beginning to go quite thin and I started to panic a bit. As a woman, your hair really impacts on your confidence.  'So, I spoke to a couple of friends who were going through the same thing and one of them recommended Starpowa. 'I ordered some and began taking it and I can't tell you what a difference it's made! Honestly it made such a difference within six weeks. 'I have also started thinking that my skin was looking glossy - but the real change has been in my hair, it's amazingly thick again. I'm super happy with the results - especially when my hairdresser noticed. 'My kids are grown up now and live all over the world so I don't have the same hectic lifestyle mums with young kids have, but I've recommended this to all my friends or would tell anyone suffering from thinning hair during the menopause to give Starpowa a go.' EastEnders star Jacqueline Osborne is a mum of two, who juggles her the demanding world of showbiz with bringing up two young girls. She decided to try Starpowa after the birth of her second daughter last summer after suffering some hair loss. She explains: 'Okay so I've been using Starpowa for a few weeks and now wanna let you know how great they are. I'm just starting out but they are helping my skin and lashes and nails.  As you know I've been having problems with my baby hair etc after Mia... I'm hoping these are the cure!' Student Eleanor, 15, is also a huge fan of Starpowa. She has spent the last few years bleaching and straightening her hair, causing it easily break. She said: ' The problem areas on me where my hair especially because I kept on bleaching it and putting heat on it and it started to snap off and get very thin and extremely unhealthy.  'Since taking Starpowa I noticed a massive change - it's I have a new head of hair! It's so much thicker, longer and in better condition. I've also noticed a big change in my skin, it's so much more vibrant and glowey than before. These gummies have really boosted my confidence.' *Food supplements should not be used as a substitute for a balanced diet and healthy lifestyle. If you are pregnant, breastfeeding, taking prescription medication or under medical supervision it is advisable to consult a GP prior to taking any supplements. Discontinue use and consult a GP if adverse reactions occur  
