{ By Latoya Gayle and Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  00:00, 15 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7227957/Its-Prime-Day-Amazon-slashes-prices-hundreds-items-website-36-hours.html }
Amazon Prime Day kicked off on Monday and continues for another 24 hours, with shoppers rushing to snap up offers on everything from hair straighteners to home security systems.  Data from the online giant reveal a £49.99 Bosch Cordless Drill (was £104.99), a £119.99 Shark Vaccum Cleaner (was £249.99) and a £24.50 Tanqueray London Dry Gin Set (was £35) have been among the most popular deals in the first 14 hours of the online extravaganza.   Meanwhile some 42,000 PC deals, 27,000 homeware deals and 23,000 wine deals have also been picked up by savvy shoppers.  The annual shopping extravaganza saw 100 million items snapped up last year but promises to be bigger than ever this year with discounts running across the website - and rival retailers - for 48 hours for the first time. To be eligible for the deals and discounts on Prime Day, shoppers need to be an Amazon Prime member. If you're not yet a member and want to take advantage of the deals on Prime Day, you can sign up for a free 30-day trial.  Promotions were unveiled in the early hours of Monday and will run until midnight on Tuesday as customers rush to get their hands on deals across homeware, technology and fashion and beauty.  Highlights include the ghd Ultimate Styling Gift Set now £174.99 (was £249.99) and the Sony Advanced Compact Premium Camera now £479 (was £613). Meanwhile a 50" Samsung TV is currently more than £200 cheaper, and there is a £100 reduction on Apple's iPhone XR. However you'll have to act fast if you want to get your hands on the best bargains, with some disappointed social media users claiming some items have already sold out.  'Everything has sold out within two minutes. Kind of pointless having it over two days,' one tweeted.  Others confessed they have found it difficult to know when to stop shopping, with one confessing: 'May have gone a bit overboard on Prime Day.'  For the first time ever Amazon is also offering 'lightning deals' which will go live throughout the event and will see products from brands like Sony and GoPro on offer in limited quantities.  Shoppers also have the chance to pre-order Lady Gaga's hotly anticipated HAUS LABORATORIES beauty collection, which has been created in collaboration with Amazon.  And it is not just Amazon that's offering amazing mid-year deals. High Street and online retailers like Very and AO.com are getting in on the action by releasing their own discounts to rival the online juggernaut. Here, FEMAIL rounds up some of the best deals to be had on Amazon - and high street retailers online...  TECHNOLOGY  Made from high-quality aluminium, with plush noise-isolating ear-pads, the latest Bluetooth profiles and a highly sensitive microphone for taking calls or gaming with friends, the PuroQuiet headphones certainly deliver on audio quality and style.  The Tile Pro is an extraordinarily powerful Bluetooth tracker that helps to easily find your items. It has a 300 ft. range and is also water-resistant.  This drop resistant Chromebook is ideal for use at work or at home. It features rounded corners with an impact-resistant base and lid for cushioning from knocks in addition to a spill resistant keyboard. If you are looking for the lastest in dash cam technology the Nextbase 612GW dash cam has it all. Boasting to be the first dash cam of its kind to offer stunning ultra HD 4K resolution, you will be sure to have crystal clear footage everytime. Fitted with an anti-glare polarising filter to reduce windscreen glare add additional picture quality to your image.  With more than 15 million people now in our database and the unique ability to connect with Ancestry’s billions of historical records and millions of family trees, AncestryDNA can help deliver the richest family stories—and solve the toughest family mysteries.  This camera captures 20.1 MP images without distortion while giving the freedom to snap without worrying about lighting conditions. The innovative device can also be used for 40x highly slow movie at 1000 fps speed and 4K recording. The Apple iPhone XR is a sleek gadget with 6.1 Inch Liquid Retina display (LCD). Featuring 12MP camera with OIS and 7MP True Depth front camera-Portrait mode, Portrait Lighting, Depth Control, and Smart HDR it's ideal for capturing the perfect selfie.  From office to home, airport to open road, power your life on the move with new Surface Pro 6, the laptop that adapts to you - more powerful than ever with the latest 8th Generation Intel Core processor for faster, smoother multitasking. The ROKU Express works anywhere you have a TV and WiFi; just plug it in, and you're good to go. Even if you need to move to a different room because your daughter's friends want to watch a DVD, just take the box to another TV and continue where you left off.   Pre-loaded with Android’s 8.0 Oreo operating system, it offers all the latest games and apps. No matter what you download, you can be sure everything will look brilliant on the stunning Quad+ HD display.  The 4K UHD display delivers four times the pixels of a Full HD TV and comes armed with the latest in HDR technology to produce spectacularly detailed images that burst with colour.   This 50" Samsung TV has easy access to streaming apps including Netflix, Apple TV and Amazon VideoWorks with Alexa and Google Assistant devices so you can control the TV using your voice. This 50" TV is ultra HD with incredible picture quality, which fills the screen with vivid and lifelike images and colour. With smart TV, catch up, movies and more is at the touch of a button. Freeview HD with Freeview Play is available for live TV, and it comes with 3 HDMI and 2USB ports to allow for several devices to be plugged in at once   Take your tunes, videos and photos with you wherever you go thanks to this Lenovo Tab E7 tablet, featuring 5 hours of battery life. It comes with the Android 8 Oreo operating system pre-loaded, so you can run all the latest apps right off the bat.  Take in the full view of the KG1 monitor with its ZeroFrame design atop a sharply-cut glossy black stand.Save on desk space without sacrificing style with the KG1 Series display's three -prong glossy black stand. The ZeroFrame design makes for a near-seamless look, allowing you to see more of what matters most: the screen.  HOME The Üllo Wine Purifier is an innovative gadget which removes sulphites from wine. Sulphites are added to preserve wine during transit but are unnecessary once the bottle is opened and cause a bitter taste.  A great item for the upcoming summer holidays,Ooni can cook authentic wood-fired pizza in an incredible 60 seconds! It’s also not just for pizza; you can cook flat breads, salmon, vegetables, steaks or anything that enjoys short cooking times - the possibilities are endless. The Yale Sync Home Alarm uses an app to arm, disarm and manage sync for peace of mind whilst home or away. It also offers real-time alerts by delivering mobile phone notifications. The Yale Smart Living All-In-One Camera keeps your home secure, wherever you are. With live-viewing, real time conversation, motion detection and a built-in spotlight, all accessible through the Yale View App, it’s everything you need, in one.   The Octaspring Body Zone Mattress Topper is made up of 5 zones of Octaspring foam springs, arranged in support zones. Each zone has a different firmness to create a sleeping environment which gives more support. This Zanussi washer has everything you need to power through laundry days. With a generous 10kg drum, it’s the perfect choice for large, busy households The Bosch PSB 1800 LI-2 cordless drill is a must have professional gadget for DIY projects which involve screw driving, drilling or impact drilling. It features a powerful 2-speed planetary gearbox and is exceptionally lightweight. The EasiGlide 300 from Flymo is a lightweight, easy to use electric hover mower that perfectly trims lawns within minutes. Powered by a 1300 watt motor, the gardening must-have comes complete with a 20 litre grass collection box, ideal for small to medium sized garden areas. This lightweight cordless vacuum cleaner offers superb cleaning to homes of allergy sufferers and pet owners. It captures and traps up to 99.9 per cent of allergens for clean air. The gadget is able to easily pick up debris from carpets and hard floors without stopping or changing floor heads. This Mr & Mrs Sharing the Sofa Personalised Cushion makes a great personalised gift for a special couple celebrating a wedding, anniversary or just celebrating their love.  Combining a beautiful vintage design with barista quality coffee, this espresso machine from De'Longhi is ideal for traditional style kitchens. You can enjoy creamy lattes and foamy macchiato thanks to the milk frother. A powerful 15 bar pressure means that full flavour is always extracted from your coffee.  Baby snug is a supportive seat that helps little ones get accustomed to sitting up on their own. With a removable insert, it can be adapted to suit your child as they grown. You can start using the seat as soon as baby supports their own head, and it will take them through their first year and beyond.  With an A+ Energy Rating to keep your bills low and rversible doors for convenience anywhere in your kitchen, this fridge freezer offers  119 litres of storage.   The perfect addition for the summer, this BBQ offers effortless cooking with the flick of a switch - with no gas bottles, messy charcoal or matches required. The heat can be adjusted from sizzling to warm in an instant using the variable temperature control knob. It's flameless which makes it perfect for using on your apartment balcony    The American style charcoal grill with chimney smoker function, making traditional barbecuing easier. It keeps food flavoursome with an authentic smoked taste. The BBQ allows for spacious cooking, cooking up to 10 burgers and 35 sausages in one go. It also comes with a free accessory pack includes BBQ cover & utensil set   The Bosch Serie 4 Multifunction oven has a modern appearance that sits alongside your other appliances with ease. With seven different cooking methods and a seamless built-in design, it'll help cook dishes to perfection.  Perfect for children who are desperate to defeat evil aliens with the Apollo Starfighter bike. No space monster will be able to defeat your childrn with your attached laser blaster, so you'll be extra safe navigating their planets on this cool bike. With a mountain bike style frame and powerful V-Brakes, the Apollo Starfighter is out of this world.  With an apple red step-through frame and upright riding position, your little one will feel on top of the world atop the Pendleton Junior Littleton girl’s bike. This single speed bike includes patterned mudguards and a chainguard to keep clothes clean, and is topped off with a handy kickstand.  The Carrera Crossfire 2 Women's hybrid bike builds on the all-round performance qualities of the Crossfire 1. With a confidence inspiring riding style, it features mechanical disc brakes for controlled stopping in all weathers, and 24 speed Shimano gears for easier riding on hillier terrain. Topped off with a lightweight, step-through frame, the Crossfire 2 is a brilliant choice for travelling on different terrains.  The Carrera Valour Men’s mountain bike is perfect for ensuring high performance handling whilst still maintaining comfort on your ride. With 24 Speed Shimano gearing hills will be a piece of cake, while the Suntour XCE forks and 27.5" wheels with Kenda tyres ensure your descent will be smooth and bump free. Topped off with Aluminium V-brakes to control your speed the Valour is more than ready to hit those hills or trails.  Meet the Recaro Milano, designed and engineered to give your little one a safe and comfortable ride, suitable from for children between the ages of four-twelve years old. The Recaro Milano offers the finest in safety, style and comfort and ensures side impact protection is paramount. With a washable cover and air circulation system offers perfect seating ergonomics due to the soft and breathable fabric and ensure comfort even on warm days.  If you are looking for the lastest in dash cam technology the Nextbase 612GW dash cam has it all. Boasting to be the first dash cam of its kind to offer stunning ultra HD 4K resolution, you will be sure to have crystal clear footage everytime. Fitted with an anti-glare polarising filter to reduce windscreen glare add additional picture quality to your image.  Watch over what’s important at home with the Stick Up Cam Battery. Place it on a wall or any flat surface, indoors or outdoors, and always know when people come and go with motion-activated notifications, 1080p HD video and two-way communication.  Shark vacuums give you the freedom found in Lift-Away Technology. It is quite simple, it is the ability to convert your vacuum from a traditional upright in to a portable vacuum in an instant for a deep clean with no loss of suction.  You’ll have plenty of room for all your favourite frozen foods with this great integrated freezer from Stoves. Thanks to its 197 litre capacity, it can hold 10 bags of groceries.  Enjoy high-standard, effortless cleaning with this upright cordless vacuum cleaner from Bosch. It has an impressive 60 minute run time from a single charge, giving you plenty of opportunity to make your way through the whole house, and to give every room a thorough clean.  FASHION & BEAUTY The unique 3D White whitening brush head of the GENIUS 9000 Rose Gold, imitates the shape of professional dental tools to gently polish away surface stains revealing a gleaming white smile from day one.  The LUNA 2 transforms skin for a luminous, refined and youthful look. Lifts away 99.5% of dirt, oil, dead skin cells and makeup residue. Its anti-aging side diminishes the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.  Ralph Lauren Romance is a modern classic that evokes the timeless essence of emotion, and celebrates true love. The fragrance features floral notes including Fresh Day Lilies and Sun Goddess Rose. Gives eyes curve appeal with this wonderful multipack of lashes. Eylure Naturalites strip lashes enhance the natural beauty of eyes and are suitable for all eye shapes. The beauty enhancer is also ideal for regular wear or a special occasion.  Inspired by a diamond wedding band inscribed with the single word: ETERNITY, this modern floral fragrance is Calvin Klein's tribute to enduring romance. A timeless and luxurious composition of flowers, citrus and soft woods, it holds the promise of lasting love. A mesh piece with satin band structuring, the Priscilla bra is chic and elegant. A swirling lace appliqué along the tops of the cups adds shape and flow, whilst cut-outs at the base of the cup offer a provocative peek.  Exclusive to Amazon, ghd's Ultimate Styling Gift Set achieves smooth and sleek hairstyles while ensuring that hair isn't damaged in the process. The collection includes a professional hairdryer for salon fast drying in addition to the brand's renowned paddle brush for speedily detangling hair.   The Ultimate Kit Gift Set includes everything you need to achieve your ultimate look all year round. Keep it simple with the Stay Matte Pressed Powder and Extra Super Lash Mascara or take it up a level with the Magnif'eyes Nude Edition Eyeshadow Palette and Stay Matte Liquid Lip Colour, Be My Baby.    Soothe your chapped lips with the Nuxe Reve de Miel Honey Lip Balm, a delicious honey-infused lip moisturiser. The concentration of natural ingredients includes repairing honey, ultra soothing plant oils and nourishing shea butter. Soft and delicate, the Elva cami and short set is a pretty and elegant loungewear option. The cami is in a loose, comfortable cut, with tucks at the bust on either side adding a touch of form and shape.  Replenish your skin with moisture while leaving it heavenly scented with a delicate floral fragrance with the Nuxe Huile Prodigieuse Florale Multi-Purpose Dry Oil - Face, Body and Hair.  Lightweight and lovely, this casual jumpsuit from V by Very is perfect for summer. It features all-over blooms set against a 70s rust hue, and a figure-flattering wide leg bringing a throwback vibe.  Featuring a wireless SmartGuide that gives you real time feedback to improve your brushing habits and a built-in pressure sensor, the Oral-B Smart Series 6500 electric toothbrush with Bluetooth Connectivity is perfect for cleaning and preventing harmful over-brushing.  This fruity fragrance has notes of Mandarin Orange, Citrus and Cedarwood. The scent embodies masculinity for a symbol of strength, self-confidence and bravery.  The colour pro cordless is the ideal clipper for home styling. With the innovative colour coded guide combs, the colour pro cordless clipper makes it easy to remember the family's lengths.  Billowing and breezy, this midaxi dress from V by Very is sure to keep you cool while you make a statement. It features a fierce fluro leopard print on top of a floaty, lightweight overlay.  Featuring patch pockets, roll-back sleeves and an elasticated, tie waist, marbled buttons lend an on-trend spin, while the rose pink hue keeps it girlie.  There's a new wild one on the scene this season - zebra prints are having a serious fashion moment right now. So make the switch from your signature leopard and try this statement midi skirt from V by Very.  The LUNA mini 2 is an award-winning sonic face brush that cleanses and removes up-to 99.5% of dirt and oil. It gently exfoliates dead skin cells, unclogs pores and removes makeup residue. The mini suits all skin types.   Treat your skin to a spa-level experience without ever leaving your home. Enjoy a full-facial treatment and witness instant results in no more than 90 seconds. The device uses opens pores and infuses the nourishing serum deep below skin’s surface with the help of T-Sonic pulsations.  Moisturizing face mask, for an instantly luminous, more radiant complexion, and contains vitamin E and pearl extract  Revitalizing and nourishing face mask that promises to renew and replenish skin, leaving it smooth and dreamy-soft Chopstick Styler has revolutionised the hair curling game with one-of-a-kind rectangular barrels for EXTRA long lasting curls, promising salon-worthy hair at home.   This salon quality dryer has an intelligent digital motor for fast drying and can even tame frizz. Lightweight to handle, it comes with three different heat settings and two speed settings so you have total control over your blowdry. It also comes with a 10-year motor guarantee. This 2-in-1 hairdryer and styler has earned rave reviews for being great for afro hair. Lightweight to use, it cuts blowdrying time in half and leaves a smooth and shiny finish.  Recreate beachy waves this summer with this Toni & Guy hair waver. Depending on your hair type, curls can last for a couple of days - and you don't even need to straighten your locks before using.  Recreate beachy waves this summer with this Toni & Guy hair waver. Depending on your hair type, curls can last for a couple of days - and you don't even need to straighten your locks before using.  This trimmer can be used anywhere on your face and body. It comes with four comb lengths so you can maintain your perfect stubble length. It also has a rechargeable battery and comes with two blades and a travel pouch.  Great for cutting even thick hair, these clippers by Wahl come with eight different attachments to suit your needs. The kit also includes scissors, clipper oil, a neck duster, barber cape and a carry case.  Want to avoid regular trips to the salon? Then why not try an IPL hair remover at home for longer lasting results. It can be used on your face, body and bikini line, and you can switch between using it plugged in and cordless. Philips also offers a 100 day money back guarantee if you're not 100 per cent satisfied.  Spending too much on trips to the dental hygienist? This clever gadget can save you money as well as giving you healthier gums. Safe and gentle, even for people with braces, implants or crowns, this home water flosser can get below the gum line, where regular flossing can't reach. It also comes with seven tips and 10 pressure settings.  Perfect for checking your little ones are OK, this ear thermometer is recommended by doctors. It has a pre-warmed up tip so it doesn't feel cold inside the ear and can store the last nine temperature readings.  The Shiatsu massager has been compared to the feeling of having a professional massage. Great for bad backs, it's eight massage roller balls are designed to give the feel of kneading hands. With three speeds and two massage directions, you can pick the setting which best suits your needs.  The Braun Series 7 is the ultimate electric shaver that reads and adapts to your beard, now with built-in Responsive Intelligence for a close and gentle shave. A 100% waterproof electric razor designed to last up to seven years, it can be used to shave dry or use with water, foam or gel.  Introducing the Beauty Set 9, the deluxe 9-in-1 beauty set for face and body. Exfoliate, epilate, shave, trim, tone, cleanse and apply creams and makeup.  This five-piece collection from Skinsense features an array of anti-ageing skincare heroes, including new Retinol Eye Concentrate to help reduce the look of fine lines and wrinkles around your delicate eye area, plus bestselling Retinol Serum, Firming Neck & Decollete Cream and more.  FITNESS Get yourself motivated with a Fitbit. This white and rose gold sportswatch looks stylish on your wrist, as well as tracking your steps and heart rate. Follow on-screen workouts and step challenges, or connect to your phone for real time run stats. It can also be paired with fitness apps such as Fitbit Pay, and music on your phone.  This durable and waterproof all-in-one sports watch is for those who love setting records. The ultimate fitness tracker, it can monitor 130+ sports, including running, swimming and cycling. You can also sync it to workout apps such as TrainingPeaks and Strava.  If you're after a yoga mat, why not invest in this Adidas one. It has ample cushioning being 8mm thick, but is still compact and rollable. With a non-slip texture for added stability, it's made from a lightweight PVC-free material, making it ideal for yoga and pilates.  The Reebok Deck is an evolution of the iconic Reebok Step and is one of the most versatile pieces of fitness equipment on the market. Combining aerobics and strength training, the Deck's design gives you total control over your workout. With more than 20 stepup combinations, there are dozens of exercises you can do.  This gym quality exercise seat is perfect for a full body workout. With an improved ergonomic back design, it features an in-built twisting seat so you can target your abs and waistline. The inbuilt rowing system means you get your cardio workout as you tone. Easy to set up, you can use it in any room in your house, and once your done, it easily folds away.   These pushup handles grip to all floor surfaces so you can work out on the go. The ergonomic grips help distribute weight evenly, reducing pressure points and joint strain on wrists and elbows.  This collapsible home trainer bike is perfect for cardio and muscle build-up. Quick and easy to set up and fold away, it features eight resistance levels. It also comes with a mobile phone holder on the handlebar and a towel holder.  Adjustable hand weights for strength training in the gym. They come with four premium heavy-duty spinlocks to prevent the plates rattling and provide a secure workout. Also comes with a workout guide for home fitness.  DailyMail.co.uk may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page   
