food reviews
{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:27, 12 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7239651/Midsommar-filmmaker-Ari-Aster-confirms-directors-cut-include-30-minutes-new-footage.html }
A24's critically-acclaimed horror film Midsommar is still in theaters, winning rave reviews from fans and critics alike, who will get to see an even longer version soon. Midsommar writer-director Ari Aster held a Reddit AMA on Thursday, where he was asked about a potential director's cut, and reports that he had to cut a whopping 80 minutes from the theatrical cut, which spanned a lengthy 147 minutes. Aster was asked if the director's cut will be 'part of the film' and not just a special feature, while the director responded by saying the extended cut will have a half hour of new footage. 'Working on extended cut now. Won't be 1 hr 20 mins longer, but will be at least 30 mins longer,' Aster said. Another fan also asked if the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) gave them any trouble for a scene involving Jack Reynor having an erection. 'Yes, we had an NC-17 for 6 weeks. Lots of back-and-forth with them,' Aster said. Another fan noted how Aster's first film, the 2018 critically-acclaimed thriller Hereditary was so dark, and, conversely, Midsommar was so bright, shot primarily in daytime (a rarity for a horror film), asking what aesthetic he would like to tackle next. 'Cheesecake Factory,' Aster joked, before also addressing that the script he wrote for Midsommar leaked prior to the film's release. 'I was very unhappy that the script leaked before the film's release. That said, I'd be happy to have people read the script AFTER watching the movie. There's a lot that has been cut for time and I'm proud of the script,' he added. The filmmaker added that he had been writing movie scripts since he was in middle school, but it took quite a long time before his work was ready. 'I've been writing scripts since I was in junior high. I even attended dozens of screenwriting conferences through my teen years,' he added. 'I probably didn't write anything that I'd now consider halfway "worthy" until my last year of college, although there are ideas/scenes/images in the early scripts that might have something,' he said. Midsommar follows a young couple (Jack Reynor and Florence Pugh) who travel to Sweden to take in a celebrated mid-summer festival. The young couple soon learn that the festival involves a violent competition held by  a pagan cult.  The R-rated Midsommar debuted in theaters July 3, and has earned just over $14 million after one week in theaters. 
