food reviews
{ By Jack Wright For Mailonline   Published:  11:58, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7960331/Britains-wonkiest-house-old-village-featured-Harry-Potter-goes-sale-525-000.html }
Britain's wonkiest house, which is thought to be more than 600 years old and based in a picturesque medieval village that featured in a Harry Potter film, has gone on sale for £525,000.  The Crooked House, an ancient Grade II-listed building in Lavenham, Suffolk believed to date as far back as 1395, went up on the market for over half a million pounds earlier this month. A quirky half-timbered house painted in a vibrant orange, the wonky property - which looks as if it is leaning against other buildings down the High Street, can't help but catch the eyes of passersby. Thought to be the inspiration for the classic children's nursery rhyme There Was a Crooked Man, the medieval Crooked House - which goes by no other name - is a staple of an otherwise-famous wool town. Used as a tearoom in recent years, the building has now been listed with estate agency Carter Jonas, hoping to make £525,000 from the sale of the iconic 1,144 sq ft fairy-tale property.  The Crooked House boasts a quaint dining room and kitchen on the ground floor, and two bedrooms on the first floor, used as residential accommodation whilst home to Munnings Tea Room.  It even has a garden to its west, perfect for smoking out meat on BBQ ovens during the hot summer, and for creating a Winter Wonderland during the cold winter.   Lavenham is an historic wool town in Suffolk that was among the 20 wealthiest settlements in England during the medieval period.  At one time paying more tax than even York, its wealth was reflected in the magnificent church of St Peter and St Paul, towering at 144 ft.  Lavenham is the home of the 19th-century poet Jane Taylor, who is believed to have penned the words to Twinkle Twinkle Little Star there. The Crooked House, which takes centre stage down the High Street, is thought to be the inspiration for the nursery rhyme There Was A Crooked Man, who 'lives in a crooked house'.  It and many other properties are slanted and appear to rest and rub up against each other as green timber, which contains more moisture, was used in their construction.  With time, the timber bent - and, eventually starved of its former riches, the town could ill-afford to amend the structures, leaving them crooked.   Antique and even otherworldly in style, the Crooked House is a less-than five-minute walk to De Vere House, used as Godric's Hollow in the film adaptations of JK Rowling's much-loved Harry Potter novels. That property, which is now an AirBnb, was used as the location for the house where Harry's parents Lily and James Potter intended to bring him up - before they were slain by Lord Voldemort.  The Crooked House, which at one time was also an art gallery, became home to Munnings Tea Room after 2004, and received over 400 positive reviews on TripAdvisor after the tearoom moved to Lavenham.  However, Munnings Tea Room failed a Food Standards Agency inspection last year, giving it a zero mark out of five, after inspectors uncovered mouldy food deemed unfit for human consumption. Everyl Madell's establishment was fined £3,000 last December at Suffolk Magistrates' Court when she admitted contravening food safety requirements and failing to comply with EU hygiene provisions. The court heard how Ms Madell intended to close the business this month - and now the Crooked House is open to either small businesses or homeowners to buy. 
