food reviews
{ By Geoff Earle, Deputy U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:04, 9 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7229279/Under-fire-Labor-Secretary-Alex-Acosta-reemerges-blast-Jeffrey-Epsteins-horrific-crimes.html }
President Donald Trump defended Labor Secretary Alex Acosta for his role in Jeffrey Epstein's sweetheart non-prosecution deal, and declared himself 'not a fan' of the convicted pedophile who he once banned form Mar-a-Lago. Trump spoke publicly about Epstein for the first time since federal prosecutors in New York charged him with trafficking in underage girls.   'I had a falling out with him a long time ago. I wasn’t a fan,' Trump said, without providing details. 'I was not a fan of his. That I can tell you,' Trump said. 'He was a fixture in Palm Beach,' Trump said of Epstein. The president has been photographed with Epstein, including at Mar-a-Lago. Epstein was convicted of soliciting prostitution of a minor at his nearby Palm Beach mansion. Trump also defended Acosta, who helped cut the deal that resulted in Epstein getting out of prison after serving just 13 months.  'I feel very badly actually for secretary Acosta,' Trump said.  'He's been a very good secretary of labor,'  Trump said, saying it was unfair to judge him based on 'what happened 12 or 15 years ago.' Trump also called Acosta a 'great' Labor secretary. Amid calls for Acosta to step down in light of the new Epstein prosecution, the president added: 'I feel very badly at that whole situation. But we're going to be looking at that and looking very closely.' An ongoing lawsuit between Epstein and Bradley Edwards, who represented multiple underage victims in their civil suits against the convicted pedophile, reveals that Trump banned Epstein from his private Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach. The reason for that, according to the filing, was that Epstein had 'sexually assaulted an underage girl at the club.' That same filing also claims that Epstein and his girlfriend-turned-platonic companion Ghislaine Maxwell used the club as a hunting ground for new girls. These revelations came out in a bid by Edwards to depose President Trump in the case. Trump said of Epstein: 'Well, I knew him like everybody in Palm Beach knew him. I mean, people in Palm Beach knew him. He was a fixture in Palm Beach. I had a falling out with him a long time ago. I don't think I've spoken him for 15 years. I wasn't a fan,' Trump said. 'I was not - yeah, a long time ago. I'd say maybe 15 years. I was not a fan of his, that I can tell you. I was not a fan of his,' the president added.  He defended Acosta in part by pointing to low unemployment in the U.S. economy. 'You know, I met Secretary Acosta, the first time, you know, when I made the deal to bring him on, into the administration,' Trump said, referencing the time Acosta stepped in after prior nominee fast food magnate Andrew Puzder's nomination flamed out. 'I can tell you that for two and a half years he's been just an excellent secretary of labor. He's done a fantastic job. Now, part of it is our economy is so good, our unemployment numbers are at record lows, you know, so many good things are happening,' Trump said. He also claimed not to know the details of Acosta's resume. 'What happened 12 or 15 years ago with respect to when he was a U.S. attorney, I think in Miami – was it Miami? – you know, if you go back and look at everybody else's decisions, whether it's a U.S. attorney or an assistant U.S. attorney or a judge, you go back 12 or 15 years ago or 20 years ago, and look at their past decisions, I would think you'd probably find that they'd wish they maybe did it a different way.' 'I do hear that there were a lot of people involved in that decision, not just him,' Trump said. 'I can only say this, from what I know. And what I do know is he's been a great, really great secretary of labor. The rest of it, we'll have to look at. We'll have to look at it very carefully. But you're talking about a long time ago. And again it was a decision made, I think, not by him but by a lot of people. So we are going to look at it very carefully.' The president's defense of Acosta and distancing from Epstein came amid a disclosure that Trump's attorney general, Bill Barr,  won't be recusing himself from the Epstein case as expected, CNN reported. Barr consulted with career ethics officials on the matter, and will technically retain oversight of the Epstein case being prosecuted by career prosecutors in the Southern District of New York.  However, Barr has been recused, and will remain so, for reviews of the decisions made by federal prosecutors in Florida who reached the non-prosecution agreement with Epstein's attorneys, according to the network.  Barr was quoted in South Carolina Monday saying he would recuse due  to his work for a law firm that 'long ago' represented Epstein.   'I'm recused from that matter because one of the law firms that represented Epstein long ago was a firm that I joined for a period of time,' he said, NBC reported.  Barr previously worked for the firm Kirkland & Ellis, although it could not immediately be confirmed if this was the stated reason for recusal. Firm partner Jay Lefkowitz is among the high-powered attorneys who represented Epstein and helped secure his advantageous non-prosecution agreement.  Barr didn't mention another potential conflict: that his father, while headmaster of the prestigious Dalton school, hired Epstein to teach calculus and physics there when Epstein was just 20 and lacked a college degree.  Acosta reemerged Tuesday to publicly laud federal prosecutors in New York following their indictment of Jeffrey Epstein – after coming under fire for negotiating a generous deal with the convicted sex offender.  'The crimes committed by Epstein are horrific, and I am pleased that NY prosecutors are moving forward with a case based on new evidence,' Acosta wrote on Twitter Tuesday, a day after prosecutors charged Epstein with trafficking in underage girls.   He defended his own prosecutorial conduct in another tweet. Acosta had been the U.S. attorney in Florida who negotiated Epstein's deal with the hedge funder's crack legal team. 'With the evidence available more than a decade ago, federal prosecutors insisted that Epstein go to jail, register as a sex offender and put the world on notice that he was a sexual predator,' Acosta wrote.   'Now that new evidence and additional testimony is available, the NY prosecution offers an important opportunity to more fully bring him to justice,' he wrote. U.S. attorney in the Southern District of New York Geoffrey Berman said Monday in announcing Epstein's indictment that a non-prosecution agreement Epstein reached with prosecutors in Florida was not binding on the latest prosecution.  Acosta's public defense comes after the Justice Department and the Labor Department declined comment on Monday, even as powerful Democrats called for Acosta to step down. Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer demanded Tuesday that Alex Acosta resign over his deal to let Jeffrey Epstein evade federal prosecution in 2008, saying the president should fire the Cabinet secretary if he refuses to quit. The second-most senior Democrat spoke on the floor of the Senate to condemn Acosta's role as a U.S. attorney in 2008 in letting Epstein escape a long federal sentence by agreeing to a 13-month prison term in a Florida state facility. Nancy Pelosi, the House Speaker, called for Acosta to quit on Monday night, hours after Epstein appeared in a New York federal court to face new child sex trafficking charges which could see him jailed for up to 45 years. 'It is now impossible for anyone to have confidence in Secretary Acosta's ability to lead the Department of Labor,' Schumer said. 'If he refuses to resign, President Trump should fire him. Instead of prosecuting a predator and serial sex trafficker of children, Acosta chose to let him off easy. This is not acceptable.' He also demanded that the Department of Justice make public an internal review of Acosta's handling of the Epstein prosecution which was completed earlier this year but has not been released. Acosta is now at the center of a growing scandal over his past, with no public show of support from the White House. He was not personally close to Trump before his appointment, and was recommended for the role by then White House counsel Don McGhan, who Trump trashed  in the wake of the Mueller report. Schumer spoke after Pelosi tweeted late on Monday: '.@SecretaryAcosta must step down. As US Attorney, he engaged in an unconscionable agreement w/ Jeffrey Epstein kept secret from courageous, young victims preventing them from seeking justice. This was known by @POTUS when he appointed him to the cabinet. #AcostaResign'  Schumer's own caucus is now divided on Acosta. Amy Klobuchar, the Minnesota senator who is running for president, said he should quit, as did Delaware senator Chris Coons. But West Virginia Demcorat Joe Manchin said of Acosta: 'If he made a mistake or a judgment call or something like that, does that affect the way he’s doing his job now? I’m going to basically judge him on what job he’s doing and how he’s doing it.' Manchin voted to confirm Acosta and said of calls for him to resign: 'I’m not getting into that feeding frenzy.' Republican senators Shelley Moore Capito (West Virginia) and Roy Blunt (Missouri) also supported Acosta on Monday. Capito said Acosta told her two months ago that 'the only way for jail time [for Epstein] was to make the agreement,' and 'after hearing his explanation' she was no longer concerned. Blunt said: 'I've looked at that. [The plea deal] was early in the application of the new protections for parties that were victims and it's my view that the state prosecutors were appropriate prosecutors to deal with that. But we'll see. If there's more that comes out, I'll be glad to look at it.'  Epstein, 66, a billionaire hedge funder and already convicted sex offender, is known for his high-profile connections including President Bill Clinton, Trump, and Prince Andrew.  Following his guilty plea, Epstein was sentenced to 18 months in prison, but was released five months early and was permitted work release during his incarceration. In April, Acosta said: 'I’ve been on record as condemning the terms of his incarceration. I understand why folks are upset. That was Florida law, that was not a federal decision.'  But the outrage is over more than getting out early and being able to work through what was already a light sentence.  Acosta's role in that result earned him a thank-you letter from Epstein's attorneys, according to a Miami Herald expose on the prosecution.  One of Epstein's lawyers wrote to Acosta to 'thank you for the commitment you made to me,' during negotiations. It thanked him for the assurance not to contact 'any of the identified individuals, potential witnesses or potential civil claimants.' His actions are now being looked at amid bi-partisan calls for an investigation which takes the Epstein case to the heart of Trump's cabinet, CNN reported.    Democratic Senator Tim Kaine tweeted on Monday: 'Acosta must go. He handed a sweetheart deal to a serial sexual predator. Survivors of Epstein’s abuse have been denied their day in court for too long. I’m thankful other prosecutors stepped in to finally deliver justice.'  Fox's host of 'The Next Revolution with Steve Hilton' renewed calls her first made in December again on Monday, asking 'Will we finally see some accountability from Alex Acosta? In my view, it really is time for him to go.' Former Republican Representative for Utah Jason Chaffetz echoed Hilton's sentiment, adding that he'd be 'surprised' if Acosta wasn't fired by Trump.  'When you continue to make yourself the issue and distract from the president's agenda, you no longer need to be serving there, and this is not going to go away,' Chaffetz said. 'This case is going to continue on.' Hilton added: 'It's not anything he has done since President Trump appointed him. This is, as you said, a long time ago. But there's something about it. It's so egregious. It's so revolting. You just think, "Come on."'  The Trump White House, however, defended Acosta earlier this year after a federal judge ruled in February that he and fellow federal prosecutors acted unlawfully by failing to inform victims about Epstein's plea deal in advance.  Trump, asked in February to respond, said: 'I really don't know too much about it.'  Trump then defended Acosta's current work, adding: 'I know he's done a great job as Labor secretary, and that seems like a long time ago, but I know he's been a fantastic Labor secretary. That's all I can really tell you about it. That's all I know about it.' Then-White House press secretary Sarah Sanders called it a complicated case, adding: 'but that they made the best possible decision and deal they could have gotten at that time.' Acosta became Labor Secretary after a legal career which had included being U.S. Attorney in the southern district of Florida, which includes Miami and Palm Beach, where Epstein preyed on underage women, in 2005. He was not part of Trump's inner circle when he was recommended by then White House counsel Don McGahn to head the Department of Labor. He previously served as an employment and labor attorney in Washington D.C. in the mid-1990s, and as a member of the National Labor Relations Board in the George W. Bush administration. He is the only Hispanic American to serve in Trump's cabinet, which appears to have been crucial to his appointment.  'We will wait and see what develops. This is obviously a significant event,' an official told CNN.  Acosta was not a friend of Trump before joining the cabinet in April 2017, and is seen as politically dispensable. Acosta's role in the Epstein case is back in the public eye again as the sex offender appeared in federal court in New York and was charged with conspiracy to commit sex trafficking and child trafficking. He pleaded not guilty, with his attorney arguing the underage girls were 'prostitutes.'  Prosecutors said on Monday that agents seized nude photos of what appeared to be underage girls while executing a search on Epstein's mansion, leading to the possibility of still more charges.  Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Democratic Congresswoman who had pushed for action against Epstein, told the Miami Herald: 'Perhaps now Epstein’s victims will see real justice. But true accountability is still glaringly absent for Alex Acosta, who approved this serial pedophile’s permissive plea deal.' She said Congress should step in to find out what happened to enable the deal if the Department of Justice would not say how it was made.  In order to justify Acosta's dismissal from Trump's cabinet, a senior administration official told Politico: 'We’d really have to see that he’d cut a deal that was improper, not unsavory, but improper, that for some reason he was protecting himself or he was given money, those burdens are very high and that deal was 13 years ago.'  California Democratic Rep. Ted Lieu of California blasted Acosta in a tweet that tied in President Trump Monday. '@realDonaldTrump Secretary of Labor Alex Acosta gave pedophile Jeffrey Epstein a sweetheart deal when Acosta was US Attorney. Now it appears Epstein has molested more children. Why did @SecretaryAcosta let Epstein go?'  Epstein's role in agreeing to the deal threatens to become a running political sore for Trump, who is not personally close to the Labor Secretary.  In New York City, U.S. Attorney Geoffrey Berman declined to criticize the agreement when asked about it at a Monday press conference announcing the federal indictment – but made clear he would not be bound by it.  'The Southern District of New York is not bound by that agreement and is not a signatory to that agreement,' he told reporters.  Berman told reporters not to read too much into the fact that attorneys from the public corruption unit were assisting in the case, and declined to comment further.  But the public corruption unit typically handles cases involving public officials accused of misdeeds, or of cases involving those around them.  For example, it was a public corruption prosecutor who oversaw the prosecution of former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen. The unit's role could indicate that a major or minor public official ultimately may get charged in the case.  Or it could indicate that the 2008 plea deal  itself was under investigation - which would be toxic for Acosta. Prosecutors focused on this area would also be involved in the investigation if  money laundering or tax issues compound the charges in the case.   
