{ By Tom Place For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  12:11, 9 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7227445/Disgusting-moment-massive-RAT-spotted-crawling-chairs-inside-popular-Italian-restaurant.html }
A rat has been filmed crawling across the chairs of a much loved Italian restaurant - leaving those nearby shocked and disgusted. The rodent was spotted at the popular Villaggio restaurant, based and an hour south-west of Sydney, with the camera woman appearing shocked at the sight. 'Oh my god, there is a rat in the restaurant,' she said as the rodent crawled on the dinning chair in front of the window. The sight of a rodent may come as a surprise to customers of the restaurant that has a 4.5 star rating on both Google Reviews and Trip Adviser.  Villaggio's owners, twins Simon and Harry Kanaan, were quick to respond with a video posted to their Instagram on Tuesday standing alongside a pest control worker after the brothers said they spotted the rat in the morning.  'We believe we had a guest come over last night,' Simon Kanaan said. 'But he's our little guest that is going to be going away very soon.' Mr Kanaan said they then spoke to a pest control worker to get it under control.  'We got Eddy the pest, you're the best pest control in Australia mate,' Mr Kanaana said. 'We just want to let you know that things happen even to the best of us,' he said. Mr Kanaana told Daily Mail Australia that a combination of issues including the cold weather has made it very difficult to keep absolutely everything perfect. 'Things happen and at the end of the day, we were so happy with our customers going out of their way to report it to us and the fact they understand that things happens, it’s not like the place was dirty or there was a dead rat served in someone’s food,’ he said. Those commenting on the video were either highly sympathetic of the situation or critical of what more could potentially lie beneath the surface.  'Don't eat there,' one man said tagging his friend with several others doing the same. One man responded to the comments and argued that having a rat in the restaurant did not mean it was unhygienic.  'Yes, hygiene plays a big part in Rodent infestations, however winter is Rodent season and even the most hygienic and clean restaurants can have the odd Rat/Mouse infiltrating the property for shelter and warmth,' he said. 'Great to see the problem was rectified right away,' they added. Daily Mail Australia reached out for comment but the owners have yet to officially reply.  
