food reviews
{ By Emer Scully For Mailonline   Published:  11:41, 7 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7221555/Jamie-Oliver-family-new-6m-Tudor-mansion.html }
Jamie Oliver's family have moved in to their new £6million home just two months after 22 out of 25 of his restaurant outlets closed. Furniture vans have been spotted outside Spains Hall near Braintree in Essex — prompting speculation the TV chef, 44, his wife Jools, also 44, and their five children are moving in. Jamie bought the six-bedroom Tudor mansion at the end of 2018 and had plans to turn it in to 'the perfect family home'. The building dates back to 1570 and is surrounded by 70 acres of land. Early last month builders erected scaffolding and began work on the property. The 16th century property was being refurbished just three weeks after Oliver's restaurant empire went into administration.  When 22 out of 25 outlets closed two months ago 1,000 jobs were lost after months of difficulties and restaurant closures. Jamie thanked staff and suppliers, adding: 'I appreciate how difficult this is for everyone affected. It's been a real pleasure serving you.' Staff at Oliver's flagship restaurant in Birmingham claim they were sacked by email just 30 minutes before the company announced it had collapsed. One worker said at the time: 'I'm really angry because Jamie won't be the one looking for a job and struggling to pay his bills, it'll be poor saps like us who worked for him.' Experts say the growth of takeaway apps, and a 'saturation' of food chains on Britain's high streets contributed to eroding the company's earnings. The crumbling chain was also beset by a tide of poor reviews, including from restaurant critic Marina O'Loughlin who in 2018 said she would have to be 'paid to go back' to his restaurant in Westfield London. The chef himself previously blamed his empire's parlous state on Brexit, which he said was among the factors which caused a 'perfect storm', as well as rental costs, local government rates and the increase in the minimum wage. In 2017 the father-of-five, who lives in a £6million 16th century Essex mansion, ploughed £12.7million of his own money into his struggling business after being given two hours to save the chain. According to Companies House, Jamie Oliver Holdings Ltd - the umbrella company under which he runs his myriad businesses - turned over £32 million last year - a staggering £87,670 a day. But Jamie's Italian was on the brink of collapse two years ago with the chef revealing in an interview it had 'simply run out of cash' and run up millions in debt. The celebrity chef, wife Jules and their children Poppy, 17, Daisy, 16, Petal, 10, Buddy Bear, eight, and River, two, currently live in a £8.9million mansion off Hampstead Heath, north London. But it looks like the family are making the move to the county where the father-of-five was born and bred as renovations appear to be complete. The 44-year-old previously clashed with planning officials at Braintree Council over plans to move an ancient pot hook at Spains Hall so he can 'create new dishes using historical cooking methods'. According to the council, there was 'no clear evidence to support its removal' from a bedroom to a kitchen.  Listed buildings are considered nationally important and therefore in most cases have extra legal permission when it comes to planning and any amendments to the property.  Planning documents submitted to Braintree District Council show that the chef wants to move the 'trammel' hook, which was once used to hold a pot over a kettle, over a fire while cooking. Documents also show that he plans to strip out book shelves from the library, sort out the historic floorboards, repair windows and replace beams. Born to pub owners Trevor and Sally Oliver in Clavering, Essex, Jamie Oliver practised cooking in the kitchen with his parents and sister.  A severe dyslexic, he left school at 16 with two GCSEs. He went on to attend Westminster Technical College, earning a qualification in home economics, before getting a job as a pastry chef at the London restaurant of Italian cook Antonio Carluccio. He first hit TV screens aged 23 on The Naked Chef, establishing his reputation as a cheeky, laid-back cook from Essex. The BBC series was praised at the time for inspiring men to cook. It first aired on April 14th in 1999 and ran for three series and including Christmas specials.  Jamie met his wife, Juliette — known as Jools — at college in 1993 when the pair were just 18. They married in Essex in June 2000, with a low-key reception in Jamie’s parents’ garden, to which the chef wore a pale blue Paul Smith suit and snakeskin brogues. Jools worked as a waitress before becoming a TV assistant, model and, briefly, her husband’s PA. The couple have five children - Poppy Honey Rosie, 17; Daisy Boo Pamela, 15; Petal Blossom Rainbow, 10; Buddy Bear Maurice, eight; and River Rocket Blue Dallas, two.  He went on to present more than 25 cooking series, spearheading a campaign for improved nutrition in school meals.  Jamie famously waged war on Turkey Twizzlers in 2005, when he visited Westminster to speak with politicians about his healthy school dinners campaign.   The chef also released a host of accessible cookery books, including  'Jamie's 15 Minute Meals' and 'Everyday Super Food'.  He opened his first Jamie's Italian in Oxford in 2008, growing it to more than 60 restaurants worldwide.  In 2017 the restaurant chain lost almost £20million and was forced to close several of its branches. It teetered on the edge of bankruptcy last year before the chef injected £12.7million of his savings into the business.  He cited rents, rates, the high street declining, food costs, Brexit and an increase in the minimum wage as potential factors. That year he closed the last of his Union Jacks eateries and scrapped his magazine Jamie, which had been in print for almost 10 years. The father-of-five went on to describe that year as the worst of his life.   By 2018, Jamie's Italian was struggling with debts of £71.5million. More than 600 people lost their jobs earlier this year the chain said it would close 12 sites.   Today he announced that his restaurant group had gone into administration. Jamie's Italian, Barbecoa and Fifteen have appointed KPMG to oversee the process.  Despite his financial woes, Jamie recently splashed out £6 million on a 16th century Essex mansion, in a 70-acre estate, complete with ghost. He’s reportedly planning to convert outhouses into a mega-kitchen from which he can film shows and hold his masterclasses. He and Jools spent £8.9 million on a Grade II-listed mansion near Hampstead Heath, north London, in 2016, and spent two years renovating it. It boasted seven bedrooms, an open-plan kitchen with cream Aga, a grand piano and a Louis XV-style bed worth £2,200, it’s certainly impressive. The Olivers have fitted the house with some quirky features, including a wood-fired pizza oven, a treehouse bed and a vegetable patch for the children. Jamie hired his brother-in-law, Paul Hunt, married to his sister Anna-Marie, to run Jamie Oliver Ltd in 2014 — and last year Hunt assumed responsibility for the restaurants, too. But some of his methods — such as making staff redundant over Christmas and cutting ties with Jamie’s friends and culinary mentors — have led to a reputation for ruthlessness. Last year, an anonymous insider described him as an ‘arrogant, incompetent failure’ who was ‘running the business into the ground’. Jamie rebutted the claims, saying the story was ‘nonsense’ and that Paul was ‘a loyal brother-in-law and loving father as well as a strong and capable CEO’. 
