food reviews
{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  18:51, 3 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7208505/Amazon-shoppers-crowned-Avons-3-50-dry-oil-spray-amazing-mosquito-repellent.html }
Insect repellent is a must-pack item if you're travelling this summer, heading to Wimbledon, or pitching a tent at a music festival. As the chances are you might have a run-in with biting bugs — aka midges and mosquitoes.   Traditional insect repellent tends to leave a lingering scent on the skin and a strong one at that. But fear not, if you're fed up of irritating bug bites ruining your travels and don't want to smell as though you've doused yourself in DEET, Amazon shoppers have officially crowned Avon Skin So Soft Original Dry Oil Spray (£3.50) as an 'awesome' mosquito repellent.  And thankfully the smell is far less offensive than many DEET offerings out there, as when sprayed onto the skin it leaves a subtle sun cream scent.  The Amazon best-seller in beauty boasts an impressive star rating of 4.4 out of 5, with over 1,800 glowing reviews.  One customer said: 'This is amazing. I wasn't sure as it's not really advertised as repellent and people had talked about midges not really mosquitoes. I am never using anything else.' Another added: 'Bought this as an insect repellent because I heard that the army use this now as repellent, even though it's not it's the only purpose. It works better than citronella and DDT-based repellents in my opinion. I usually suffer really badly but only got 2 bites after 2 weeks in Thailand. Highly recommend this.' 'The smell is not bad either.' they continued.  The dry body oil, which launched back in the 1960's is Avon's best-selling bath and body products, with one bottle sold every five seconds in the UK. And this isn't the first time it's been dubbed as a bug fighting spray, as rumour has it that even the Royal Marines stock up to keep bites at bay. Back in 2005 a Royal Navy spokesman told The Scotsman: 'It's not official kit but nothing works better and the Marines are buying it themselves because the midges are so bad up there.'  The secret? Its formulation contains citronella, a well-known bug deterrent that wards off insects by masking the odours that attract them.  The lightweight non-greasy dry oil body spray, also helps to provide long-lasting hydration thanks to its blend of jojoba oil, shea butter and vitamin A and E leaving skin soft and supple after use. Better yet, the repellent and body moisturiser costs just £3.50 for 150ml. However, before you slather yourself in the stuff, it's worth noting that it hasn't been medically certified. So if you're travelling to malaria-risk destinations, it's worth speaking to your GP about any extra precautions.  But at that price it's worth a spritz or two, to stay off a mosquito's menu.  Avon Skin So Soft Original Dry Oil Spray is available to buy online at amazon.co.uk and avon.uk.com. MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page. 
