{ By Marc Jackson for MailOnline   Published:  07:09, 1 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7149857/Boombod-lose-weight-week.html }
We've all done it; eaten like a king all weekend only to feel royally annoyed with ourselves on Monday morning. 'This is the week,' we tell ourselves. 'This is the week we take control and get working on our best bodies!'  However, everyday life has a funny habit of getting in the way of weight-loss. After all, it's so much simpler to get our hands on a grab-and-go lunch rather than to painstakingly count calories (and quinoa!) the night before. But there seems to be a simple and effective way to battle the bloat and kick-start your slimming story without any fuss. More than one million people around the world have used Boombod - and are raving about the results. Everyone from working mums to social media superstars is bowled over by this weight-loss supplement, which helps you feel fuller, stop snacking and battle the bloating brought on by over-indulging. We have spoken to two women who have taken a shot on this drinkable solution - and you'll be amazed by what they've achieved...  'I was skeptical about the results before I tried it... but I'm so glad I did!'  Busy entrepreneur Kayde Richardson from Florida is constantly juggling her work with her two kids. She also suffers from Crohn's disease and needs to watch what she eats. However, she has struggled to get rid of stubborn stomach fat. Here's how she found her Boombod experience... 'I suffer from Crohn's disease and there are some days that no matter how disciplined I am with eating or working out, I still have gut. I also have a problem with craving and snacking, so I decided to try Boombod to help with this and also to see if it had any impact on my bloating. 'I have to admit, I held out on using it because I was skeptical and doubted if it could actually work. After reading the reviews and looking at their page I thought why not!  'And I'm so glad I did. Within a few days of taking the three daily shots alongside healthy meals I noticed my cravings were gone! Literally no snacking - didn't even think about it. Also my bloating disappeared. 'But one of the best parts was I felt full and energized. I was able to concentrate and focus more at work, had more regular bowel movements and also slept better than usual. I also believe that I felt better because my water intake increased - something which is essential when taking soluble fibre like Boombod.  'The week-long plan has kick-started a whole new 'me' and the early changes have got the ball rolling with getting back into the gym. I've even got all my co-workers taking it!' Buy one pack of Boombod (£29.99) HERE and you'll get another completely FREE. But hurry, it's a limited offer....   After releasing 3 new flavours this spring, customers we’re lining the streets to get their hands on the sell-out product. Now back in stock at Holland & Barrett stores, you can take advantage of their Better than Half Price Sale! Boombod - one of Trustpilot's highest-rated weight-loss aids - is a seven-day plan taken three times a day, morning, lunchtime and evening, which has become a slimming phenomenon since its launch. In fact, when new flavours Lemon & Lime, Black Cherry, Orange & Mango were launched alongside original Blackcurrant earlier this year, they sold out almost instantly.  So, how do you take it? Well, you simply mix each sachet with water and drink it half an hour before your meal. For an extra boost, all three sachets each contain their own unique vitamin blend to help with energy levels, reduce fatigue and maintain hair and skin.  But the secret is in its main ingredient - glucomannan. This natural fibre makes up each sachet, and containing only 10 calories, helps to reduce appetite, cleanse and decrease bloating. Boombod contains 95 per cent glucomannan purity - the highest on the market. It is a natural, water-soluble dietary fibre extracted from the roots of the elephant yam. Taken daily in China for centuries for its putative health benefits as part of traditional medicine that has been extracted from the plant. As well as feeding the friendly bacteria in the gut, it is the only food ingredient with an EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) approved health claim for weight loss.  Now it's even more appealing - buy one pack of Boombod (£29.99) HERE and you'll get another completely FREE. But hurry, it's a limited offer.... 'As a mum of two, I wanted something quick and easy - this is it!' As a full time mother with two small kids, sticking to healthy meals can be a struggle for Selina Targett from Somerset, England. After the birth of her second child, the 21-year-old decided to take action and try Boombod after seeing celebrities raving about it online. Here, she shares her experience of how it helped kick-start her goal to getting her body where she wanted it to be... 'Being a mum of two, my diet is usually made up of anything I can quickly cook up in the kitchen. I am always rushed off my feet -  sometimes I make healthy options, but it's often easier to put something in the oven! 'I had seen Boombod being promoted by celebs and after a while I looked it up online and couldn't believe the results people were having. 'So, I tried it myself. One of the reasons was because it said it could help with bloating - I didn't previously suffer with it but after the birth of my second child it started being a regular issue. 'My triggers were either eating too much or eating too quickly. Also, indulging in things such as junk food or takeaways. 'But during my first week - you take three 'shots' a day 30 minutes before your meals - I felt more energized within two days and could myself craving less snacks.  'I would usually eat constantly throughout the day because I thought I was hungry, which I wasn't. Now I'm on small balanced breakfast, lunch and a small portion at dinnertime. 'What I didn't expect was that there would be other benefits. I definitely felt more awake, and my skin started to look healthier. 'As you can see from my before and after, my body looks dramatically different. Am I more confident? Massively!  'I can't stop talking about Boombod to be honest, and have recommended it to all my friends and family. It really worked for me!' It seems the whole world is a fan of Boombod. From de-bloating after a long, indulgent weekend to kick-starting a healthy regime with your week-long plan, this is the product for anyone who wants to take back control of their body.   One huge fan boasts one of Britain's most famous bodies, Katie Price herself.  Renowned for her personal life dramas and career highs and lows, the UK's most famous former glamour model (and mum of five) keeps her iconic figure in check with the help of three daily Boombod shots. She says: 'Another round done with Boombod weightloss shots and no secret here, I love this stuff! They're my quick & healthy go-to, especially when I have an event coming up that I need to get back on track for - helps get things looking & feeling the way I want every time. So, if you need to get results (and QUICKLY), check them out!' REAL CUSTOMER RESULTS  *The views expressed below are the opinion of Boombod Customers, they should not be regarded as health claims or medical advice. 
