{ By Matilda Rudd For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:37, 1 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7199147/Romantic-tiny-home-wheels-Raglan-offers-luxury-stays-165.html }
A tiny house in New Zealand is scoring rave reviews from guests who are loving the blissed out internet-free lifestyle it commands, all in a space no larger than a small truck. Dubbed the 'LoveBus' by its owners, Tiny House Escapes Raglan offers an escape in the wilderness with an array of perks. Set on farmland four kilometres from Whale Bay and 12 kilometres from Raglan the romantic house has an outdoor bath, a large deck, a fire pit and queen-sized bed. The open-planned kitchen has a sink and gas cooktop, the bathroom comes with a hot shower and flushing toilet and there is an extra long, comfy couch for an extra guest to sleep on. 'Plenty of solar powered LED lights and a gas heater for chilly nights, although the bus is fully insulated, and a fridge to help keep food and drinks cool,' the website read. While there is WiFi available in some portions of the bus the owners largely encourage an off-the-grid approach. 'You can have a detox from technology, if you choose to, because there is no mobile coverage at the LoveBus but you can connect to WiFi at some spots from the bus,' they said.  And naturally the perfect weekend escape has garnered a lot of attention from tourists.  One woman who visited the bus on her honeymoon said it was the highlight of the trip. 'Located on acres of private land overlooking Spot X surf break, this refurbished bus nestled in nature was a true New Zealand highlight for me,' she wrote on Instagram. 'Honestly one of the cutest, cleanest, best AirBNBs I have ever stayed in, and the couple who owns the land and manages the property is amazing. If you go to NZ, you have to check this place out.'  Other former guests said: 'An unplugged weekend in a modern eco-cabin is the coolest gift you could give someone'. While another claimed it was the 'ultimate' travel destination for those who need to unwind. Accommodation at the bus starts at $165 a night in the low season and can get up to $235 in summer. 
