food reviews
{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  13:06, 28 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7192079/Caf-owner-hits-customer-slammed-sexualised-LGBT-sandwich.html }
A Cardiff café issued this brilliant response to a customer who complained about a LGBT sandwich. Stag Coffee, in Cathays, shared their reply to the TripAdvisor review after the comments were posted on June 26. In the review, user Lennypea said the 'sexualised' LGBT sandwich was enough to make them 'not feel like eating' after seeing it advertised on the menu. But the café's owner has described the response to the lettuce, guacamole, bacon and tomato sandwich as 'ridiculous'. After giving the popular café a one star rating, the reviewer posted: 'Sexualised Food? Eeeeeergh 'Saw the LGBT sandwich on the menu and made me not feel like eating. Can't food be left alone and not politicised!? What's next, the BJ Burger??' And in response, Stag Coffee owner David Craig replied: 'Thank you so much for your recent review of our little café. I am so sorry out LGBT sandwich upset you so much. 'We are always looking for new ideas to keep our menu fresh and erm...sexy. Your suggestion of a BJ burger has just given me goosebumps up and down my body! 'What an excellent idea! I think a Bacon-Jam Burger sounds fantastic, top it with a bit of melted cheese for extra sexiness and a nice big pickle and we're on to a winner. 'We'll even donate 50p for each burger we sell to Stonewall because clearly if a sandwich that may just feature the letters L G B T makes you say "eeeeergh" and "not feel like eating" then clearly we still have a long way to go. 'PS. We did think of a Bigot Burger but it's a bit old fashioned.' After being introduced last year, 50p from the sale of every LGBT sandwich is donated to Stonewall. Mr Craig added: 'I never respond to Trip Advisor reviews, I probably should, but this is the first time I thought you know what, it's only a bloody sandwich! 'It's ridiculous. Of all the things to complain about in a restuarant. 'We introduced it last year about Pride time. We've recently had a change of menu and put it back on so a lot of people might not have seen it before. 'We don't sell a million of them but I think it's still necessary.' Talking about the possibility of a new 'BJ burger', he added: 'I think we'll definitely put it on!'  
