{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  12:56, 27 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7182919/Affordable-highest-rated-beauty-products-Amazon.html }
It's easy to feel overwhelmed when beauty shopping online at Amazon, but 'best sellers', 'top rated' and 'most wished for' are just some of the ways you can filter through the thousands of products available.  Not forgetting the pages upon pages of product ratings, first-hand reviews and photos from fellow beauty obsessives that help to suss out potential contenders for your next bathroom cabinet buy.  And with hidden gems, to world renowned beauty products from the likes of The Ordinary, Eylure and Maybelline to pick from, you'll be hard pressed to leave the site empty handed.     So to make your shopping easier, we've selected six of the most affordable and best-selling beauty products according to Amazon reviews right now. Amazon customers have hailed Eylure Dybrow Eyebrow Dye Kit ‘better than the salon’ and will only set you back a fiver. It also gives you up to 12 applications - which is considerably cheaper than frequent salon visits.  A fan of the at-home brow kit said: 'After trying and not being that impressed by microblading, I was looking for a cheaper and less fussy option to get more eyebrow definition. This kit is quick, easy and there's no worry about freaky 'lego' looking eyebrows.' If you're looking for an affordable mascara, look no further than Maybelline Lash Sensational. The ultra-black mascara transforms limp lashes into luscious, voluminous and fluttery eyelashes in just a couple of coats. One happy shopper posted: 'LOVE IT! I can barely see my bottom lashes. This product brought them out, it's not clumpy and the product comes out onto the brush nicely. Brush is also unique and curved.' Hyaluronic Acid (HA) is a must-have for maintaining hydrated, plump and glowing skin thanks to its ability to retain over 1,000 times its weight in water within skin cells.  Enter The Ordinary’s Hyaluronic Acid 2% + B5, which offers multi-depth hydration to tackle skin dryness. The serum dubbed as 'brilliant serum' by Amazon shoppers with a star rating of 4.5 out of 5 stars, can be used both morning and night before the application of heavier creams. One promising review stated that the affordable serum is 'better than any other I've used', with another adding that they 'noticed a difference to my skin within a week'. This high protection sunscreen from under-the-radar brand Alturist is one of the most popular broad-spectrum SPFs on Amazon, with over 1,200 reviews and a star rating of 4.5 out of 5.  Not only does this SPF keep your skin protected, healthy, and youthful all year long, all the profits made are used to produce and sell more products. They also donate 10p from each sale to charity to help people with albinism in Africa, where sun protection is even more crucial.    Plus they come in a pack of two, so there's no excuse not to wear protection.   Viola Skin’s Vitamin C serum has been crowned the number one best-selling face serums with 4,400 glowing reviews a star rating of 4.3 out of 5. Vitamin C has the ability to brighten your complexion and keep your skin looking younger for longer and is often touted as a must-have in your skincare regime according to Dermatologists.  The concentrated serum also contains hyaluronic acid to plump and smooth and it has a lengthy free-from list including alcohol, parabens, sulphate and gluten. Better yet, it’s £14.97, making it an affordable option for all skincare lovers.    Amazon has revealed the date of its annual Prime Day and this year the epic sales event will run for 48 hours from July 15th to July 16th. The online retailer will be offering thousands of deals and discounts for Amazon Prime members across everything from tech and beauty to homeware and fashion. If you're not yet an Amazon Prime member and want to take advantage of the deals on Prime Day, you can sign up now for a free 30-day trial. Not only will you be able to access the Prime Day discounts, but you'll also be able to enjoy all the benefits of membership, including free, one-day and two-day shipping, 'try before you buy' clothes, grocery savings and movies, TV shows, music and e-books.  MailOnline may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page. 
