food reviews
{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:36, 27 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/holidays/article-7133803/Family-refused-refund-learning-terrifying-traumatic-ordeal-Tui-hotel.html }
More families have come forward to slam Tui over the way the holiday giant has handled outbreaks of severe illnesses at its luxury hotels.  This is Money previously reported that a Tui customer was refused a refund after one of the travel chain's hotels in Tenerife was plagued with reports of illness.    Since then, another family has been refused a refund from Tui after learning of numerous norovirus outbreaks at one of its five-star resorts in Spain they were due to stay at.  Chelsea Perkins, 31, booked a family holiday with her partner, Peter, 26, and 10 month old son, Theo, to Menorca with Tui, paying almost £2,500 for the three of them. It was the first holiday for her son and they chose the Insotel Punta Prima as it was advertised as being family friendly and good for babies. However, in the days leading up to their departure - due to be on 24 May - Chelsea found bad reviews on TripAdvisor describing a serious norovirus outbreak with reports of several children and adults even being hospitalised. Chelsea, the managing director of a company that sells furniture to schools, contacted Tui who initially said they knew nothing about any illness.  Tui said that Chelsea and her family could either go on the trip or cancel entirely - but they would still have to bear the whole cost of the holiday. Chelsea said: 'I pleaded for them to change the hotel to another which was available but it said it couldn't.' After speaking to the Association of British Travel Agents, Chelsea was advised to cancel the trip and so she did, as she was unwilling to put her young son in danger.  However, this meant the family were at a loss of nearly £2,500.  Since then, Tui have denied there was ever an outbreak at the time the family were due to travel - despite reports to the contrary.  Chelsea added: 'I find the way we have been treated utterly disgusting.' A Tui spokesperson said: 'We are sorry to hear that the Perkins party chose not to travel on their holiday to Menorca. 'We can confirm that, at the time Ms Perkins got in touch with us to raise her concerns, we had no reports of sickness amongst TUI customers at the Insotel Punta Prina and therefore our standard cancellation and amendment terms and conditions applied. 'We'd like to reassure customers that we regularly audit all of the hotels we feature in respect of health and safety, including hygiene.'  Chelsea and her family are not the only families who have slammed Tui for the state of the hotel - many others have taken to TripAdvisor with reports of getting ill when staying at the Insotel Punta Prima. The MailOnline also previously reported on another family who suffered a 'terrifying and traumatic' ordeal when staying at the same all-inclusive five star hotel earlier this summer. Louise Hunter, 36, of St Helens booked a family holiday with her husband Steven, 44, and their children Rosie, four, and Sarah two but it quickly turned 'hellish'. Get in touch: grace.gausden@thisismoney.co.uk  Louise reported how her young children suffered 'constant sickness and diarrhoea' at the Insotel Punta Prima and were given intravenous fluids and medication after being rushed to hospital. She said: 'It was horrendous, hellish. They were both in immense pain and we could do little to help. It was frightening.'  The family, among several other families, are now taking legal action with instructed specialist holiday illness compensation lawyers Hudgell Solicitors, who are investigating the cause of the illness and the concerns raised by the holidaymakers.   A Tui spokeperson said: 'We are very sorry to hear of these customers' experiences on their holiday. As this is now a legal matter, it would be inappropriate to comment further.'  Lawyer Anne Thomson, of Hudgell Solicitors, is a specialist in handling holiday illness compensation claims and says this is a particularly worrying case given the impact it had on young children. She said: 'We feel the sudden onset of illnesses in all of these cases, particularly given all had only consumed food within the hotel buffet after arriving for their holidays, raises serious questions and we are now investigating the cause on behalf of a number of families. 'It is the responsibility of tour operators to ensure the highest hygiene and food standards on all-inclusive package holidays at all times.  'Sadly, as we have seen in so many cases over the years, standards can drop in large, busy hotel complexes where thousands of people holiday each year.'  For those travelling to a location where they could get ill, travel insurance policies will cover the cost of any emergency medical treatment you may need abroad, as well as the cost of any emergency repatriation back to the UK on health grounds, according to the Association of British Insurers.  However, it said your first port of call should be the tour operator or travel agent.  It added that some travel insurance policies may cover some additional costs, for example, if you wanted to move hotel, but where this applies it will come with the proviso that all other means of recovering any additional costs will have been exhausted first. An ABTA spokesperson added: 'If you become unwell with a viral infection on holiday, you should tell your travel provider and the hotel, who will assist you in obtaining medical treatment.  'You can then claim back costs for any treatment under your travel insurance.  'To avoid spreading the infection further, it is advisable to stay in your hotel room and make arrangements with the hotel to have meals delivered to your room until the infection has passed.'  According to a number of travel experts, however, it is unlikely that holidaymakers could expect to get any of their money back through travel insurance if they decide not to travel due to reports of sickness abroad.  Simon McCulloch, Director at Compare the Market, said: 'While this family cancelling their holiday is understandable, unfortunately, the issue of a bug is unlikely to be covered under a travel insurance policy, particularly if no official advice was announced to cancel or postpone the holiday.  'Although some more expensive and comprehensive policies may cover this type of issue, it will likely cost more than the average. However, tour operators do sometimes offer alternative holidays in situations like this.' Brian Brown, head of insight at Defaqto, added: 'Unless your resort or hotel is closed or otherwise unavailable, the insurer would treat this case as the customer simply deciding to not go – so called 'disinclination to travel', and this is often specifically excluded by travel insurers.  'So if you choose not to travel because of something you have heard about your hotel the insurer will normally not cover that cancellation.' By assistant editor Lee Boyce We live in a world in which information is at our fingertips - and many will read reviews on a website such as TripAdvisor to help shape travel decisions. Seeing a raft of reviews about a sickness outbreak shortly before you are due to travel can put you in predicament and especially so if you have children, or elderly members in your party.  You don't want to go for a relaxing break, only to be on edge the entire time over potentially getting ill, especially at a resort in which you are eating in close proximity of others and sharing the same swimming pool, a breeding ground for germs. In a case like this, in my opinion an alternative should be offered and tour operators must put themselves in the shoes of their customers to do the sensible thing.     
