food reviews
{ By Emilia Mazza  and Billie Schwab Dunn For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  00:58, 26 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7177377/Home-cooks-raving-19-food-processing-device-Kmart.html }
Home cooks across Australia are in a frenzy over a $19 kitchen device from Kmart that makes food preparation a breeze. The new multi-grater comes with a range of attachments designed to slice, dice and julienne vegetables with ease. One mother was so thrilled by how well the budget-priced item performed she took to Facebook to rave about how efficient it was. 'Does anyone else have one of these? Hands down my favourite Kmart purchase,' she wrote. The device comes with two slicer attachments, two julienne attachments, one grater attachment and three dicer attachments. Additional extras include a cleaning tool and a hand guard. 'Prepping food couldn't be made easier than with this multi grater, slicer and dicer. Instead of chopping up ingredients, you can now prepare meals in no time!' Reads information on Kmart's site. Those who've bought the multi grater and left reviews on Facebook have also said how impressed they are by the $19 device. 'I literally love this little tool when I make potato bake. Can't make it without this anymore! Kills so much time,' wrote one person. 'I have this. I use it almost every day. Definitely makes potato bake easy,' said another. While a third said they use the handy device for 'everything' including making homemade vegetable chips. 'Multi grater, slicer and dicer from Kmart. $19 worth every cent,' wrote another. It's not the first time Kmart has wowed shoppers with affordably priced kitchen gadgets that make prepping food easy. Recently the retailer released a 2-1 Chopper priced at $7, a device which chops up fruit and vegetables in a matter of seconds. To use the item, simply add ingredients into the container, close the lid and pull the string a few times - the chopper's blades do all the hard work of mincing.  Additionally the Chopper comes with a separate blender attachment and it also includes a non-skid base and removable blade.  Australian mothers who've tried it also took to Facebook to share their love for the $7 device with many claiming it was 'the best chopper ever'. One person posted: 'The best new product since the pie maker!'.  'Love mine. One of my favourite things in a kitchen filled with expensive gadgets,' one woman said. 'I use this to chop cauliflower for my cauliflower rice,' said another.  
