food reviews
{ By Emilia Mazza For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  04:40, 25 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7177597/Incredible-food-cleaning-hack-takes-just-moments-remove-stains-microwave.html }
A bizarre $11 gadget is being hailed a game-changer in Australian cleaning groups for its ability to remove baked-on food from the inside of a microwave. The Angry Mama Microwave Cleaner available from Amazon looks as though it could pass for a child's toy - but is instead used to dislodge stains effectively with no chemicals.  To use it, customers simply fill it with water and vinegar, place it in a dirty microwave and set it on high for seven minutes. Steam is released through the head which softens any food or ingrained stains. The vapour also acts as a disinfectant to remove lingering smells. 'Add a squeeze of lemon Juice (or essence) to liquid for a pleasant odour. Angry Mama cuts microwave cleaning time in less than half,' the product description reads. The item boasts close to two hundred reviews from those who've tried it, with over half awarding it five stars. 'This works better than just boiling a bowl or cup of water in the microwave. The steam reaches into all the nooks and softens all spills and splatters,' wrote one pleased shopper. Another keen to avoid the use of chemicals said they 'loved it' and it 'worked fantastically'.  'It's so cute. I had no problems with it at all. I would buy it for a gift any day. My microwave is not very large though. The ingredients were not chemicals.' 'I'm actually pretty glad I bought this! I have a family of five so my microwave is pretty funky most of the time,' said a third. 'After I let it steam for seven minutes and sit for two, everything just wiped out with pretty much no effort.'   A few reviewers who'd also tried the gadget said while they had bought it because they thought it was unusual, they didn't think there was anything special about the design. 'If you just want a way to clean your microwave, just put vinegar and water in a coffee cup and boil it for a few minutes in the microwave,' said one person. 'All this device does is hold vinegar and water while it boils and coats everything with condensed water/vinegar vapor.' Another said while they gave the product three stars they were quite 'disappointed' with how it performed.  'It's a pain to get the lid off. That part took longer than the time it was in the microwave.'  
