{ By Jennifer Newton for MailOnline   Published:  17:49, 24 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/travel_news/article-7175583/A-tour-SLUM-named-highly-rated-tourist-experience-India-TripAdvisor.html }
A tour around one of the world's biggest slums has been named by TripAdvisor as India's most highly rated tourist experience. The guided excursion of the Dharavi slum in Mumbai, which has a population of 700,000, saw off competition for the top spot from tours of Old Dehli and the Taj Mahal in the 2019 Travellers’ Choice Awards for Experiences. In addition, it also came 10th in the list of the best tourist experiences in the whole of Asia. The tour, which costs £9 ($11.50), allows a group of six people to explore the houses and businesses in the slum as well as visit a local bakery and a recycling centre. Reality Tours and Travel, which runs the experience, says: 'This Dharavi slum tour provides a window into Mumbai's working neighborhood, and the area is best explored with a guide to gain a well-rounded view without getting lost. 'On this tour, you'll explore the alleyways of makeshift homes and workshops, and meet the locals, learning how they live. 'Most proceeds go back into the community, and you'll explore in a small group limited to six.' Coming second in the ranking of Indian experiences is a bike tour of Old Dehli costing £25 ($32) and third is private day tour of the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort by superfast train from £35 ($44.50). Rounding off the top five is a full day Taj Mahal and Agra tour from Delhi by express train from £35 (fourth, $44.50) and the Original Delhi Shopping Tour, which is £90 (fifth/$114). Globally, the most highly ranked tourist experience was named by TripAdvisor as a tour of the Vatican with skip-the-line access.  TOP TEN EXPERIENCES IN WORLD 1. Faster Than Skip-the-Line: Vatican, Sistine Chapel and St. Peter's Basilica Tour – Rome, Italy 2. Chicago Architecture River Cruise – Illinois, USA 3. Tuscany in One Day Sightseeing Tour – Florence, Italy 4. Snorkelling Silfra Tour with Pick up – Reykjavik, Iceland 5. Red Rock Canyon Electric Bike Tour – Las Vegas, Nevada, USA 6. Private Guided Tour on a Vintage Sidecar – Paris, France 7. Canal Tour starting at Anne Frank House – Amsterdam 8. Best of Ubud Tour with Jungle Swing – Ubud, Indonesia 9. Xi'an Evening Food Tour by TukTuk – Xi'an, China 10. Kaituna River White Water Rafting – New Zealand  TOP TEN EXPERIENCES IN THE UK 1. Small-Group Tour: Historical Pub Walking Tour of London 2. Private Tour of London in a Classic Car 3. Mayfair Chocolate Ecstasy Tour – London 4. Belfast Troubles City Centre Walking Tour 5. Harry Potter Walking Tour for Muggles in London 6. High-Speed Thames River RIB Cruise in London 7. Royal Mile Guided Walking Tour in Edinburgh 8. Three-Day Isle of Skye and Scottish Highlands Small-Group Tour from Edinburgh 9. Oxford University Walking Tour 10. Game of Thrones and Giant's Causeway Full-Day Tour from Belfast, Northern Ireland  TOP TEN EXPERIENCES IN INDIA    1.Dharavi Slum Small-Group Tour in Mumbai 2. Old Delhi Bike Tour, New Delhi 3. Private Day Tour of Taj Mahal and Agra Fort By Superfast Train 4.Full Day Taj Mahal and Agra Tour from Delhi by Express Train 5. The Original Delhi Shopping Tour, New Delhi 6. Private Half-Day Bollywood Tour Including Lunch in Mumbai 7. Half Day Old Delhi Bazaar Walk amd Masterji Kee Haveli Visiting Tour, New Delhi 8. Private Old and New Delhi Full-Day Combo Tour 9. Highlights of Mumbai: Private sightseeing tour 10. Small-Group Delhi Slum Tour: Sanjay Colony Source: TripAdvisor  The £51 ($64) experience allows visitors to skip up to four-hour queues and take in the wonders of the Sistine Chapel and St Peter's Basilica.  It was followed in the rankings by a £33 (£41) architecture river cruise in Chicago and a one-day sightseeing tour of Tuscany costing £81 ($101). Experiences in the UK were listed separately with a £25 ($31) pub crawl that includes visiting some of London's most historic bars taking top honours. A £245 ($307) private two-hour tour of London in a classic Mini Cooper is the second best-rated experience in Britain, followed by a £50 ($63) tour of London's best chocolate shops in the upmarket Mayfair area. The winners of TripAdvisor's Travellers' Choice Awards For Experiences were determined using an algorithm that took into account a business's reviews, opinions and popularity with travellers over the past year.  
