food reviews
{ By Marc Jackson for MailOnline   Published:  17:24, 24 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7175025/Starpowa-vitamin-gummies-help-hair-skin-nails.html }
The way we live can have a huge impact on the way we look. Hectic jobs, jam-packed social lives and (trying!) to be constantly Insta-ready can take it out of us.  And, along with our energy levels, some of the first things to suffer are our hair, skin and nails. But have you ever set out on a search for vitamins that claim to help this holy trinity, only to be completely bamboozled by choc a-block health store shelves? Well, you're not alone. That's why a new three-in-one solution has caused a momentous stir on social media. Following the launch of Starpowa*, the first gummy of its kind to help give you longer hair, healthier skin and stronger nails, thrilled customers have flocked to Holland & Barrett's website to give it an unstoppable five-star rating.  In fact, people are so keen on this delicious daily vitamin that it sold out online in just 60 seconds - but what sets it apart in a packed market? And how will it give damaged hair, stressed skin and brittle nails a boost from within? How can Starpowa help?  Containing natural and clinically-proven ingredients, science is at the heart of what Starpowa does. Formulated in the lab, each gummy contains the highest quality beauty boosting ingredients including Biotin, Vitamin C and Aloe Vera extract alongside numerous others. And the best bit? You should start seeing results within 30 days - that's just four weeks to longer hair, healthier skin and stronger nails. Why are they any different to other gummy supplements?  It's simple; Starpowa is the first three-in-one gummy that's designed to focus on three of the main areas of concern for its customers. While other vitamin gummy brands focus on either helping your hair, skin or nails separately, this product has been curated to target all three. And unlike other gummies on the market, the team at Starpowa are determined to help your health in all areas. That's why there's less than 1 per cent sugar in your daily double gummy dose!  This is because they use Citrus Pectin - which is manufactured with small amounts of naturally-occurring sugars. So, rather than trying to knock back pungent-smelling vitamin tablets, these gummies feel like a tasty treat - an added bonus for you every morning! This is especially attractive as most other gummy products use a combination of glucose syrup, sucrose and fructose to improve taste - meaning you get an unnecessary sugar-soaked calorie boost.  They are also vegan and are suitable for all the family aged three and above. What scientifically-proven ingredients come in every gummy? While we're all going to have days when we have to cover up a blemish or let out of a sigh over split ends, the essential vitamins, key minerals, organic compounds and amino acids in Starpowa, alongside a healthy diet, can help provide the nutrients we need on the inside - making it much easier to look great on the outside. And getting your daily dose couldn't be easier - you simply need to add two gummies to your morning routine.  But what are the amazing natural ingredients that give Starpowa its power? Well, the key is in the specially-concentrated formula below:   Vitamin A - Hydrates skin & scalp Vitamin B6 - Stimulates hair growth Vitamin B12 - Improves nail pigment Vitamin C - Boosts collagen production Vitamin D3 - Helps reduce lines & wrinkles Vitamin E - Reduces thinning hair follicles Iodine - Restores hair strength   Biotin - Boosts growth, thickness & shine  Aloe Vera - Hydrates skin pores MSM - Helps rebuild skin tissue Zinc - Helps fight breakouts  Folic Acid - Promotes nail cell production  Niacin - Increases hair length & conditioning Copper - Helps with anti-aging  The reviews are in: Why customers are going wild for Starpowa No matter how well a product is promoted, the real proof is in the pudding. Or, in this case, the gummies. Since its launch, fans of the product have hit the 'gram to share their delight at the supplement - while the product boasts an unquestionable 5-stars on health store Holland & Barrett's website.  Snap up your first 30-days' worth of gummies HERE - and you'll get another one completely FREE.    *Food supplements should not be used as a substitute for a balanced diet and healthy lifestyle. If you are pregnant, breastfeeding, taking prescription medication or under medical supervision it is advisable to consult a GP prior to taking any supplements. Discontinue use and consult a GP if adverse reactions occur  
