{ By Chloe Morgan For Mailonline   Published:  10:47, 24 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7138355/TRINNY-LONDONs-best-seller-Miracle-Blur-sold-three-times.html }
A primer from Trinny Woodall's own make-up range which sold out three times has received an abundance of five star reviews online - and it's now back in stock. On one of those occasions, TRINNY LONDON’s best-seller Miracle Blur, which costs £26 and is sold at Fenwick and on the brand's website, was snapped up in under 24 hours.       The product, which claims to iron out fine lines and wrinkles and has previously had a 6,282 strong waiting list, has become a beauty favourite amongst make-up lovers in the UK - and across 44 different countries.   ‘Pot of Miracle,' wrote one. 'I wanted to love it so much and I do. I have a couple of deep lines above my top lip...or do I? High five Trinny,' while another who dubbed it 'absolutely amazing' added:  'Was a little skeptical to be honest. It has just arrived and I am truly amazed. It really works and I am shocked.’  The product description on the website reads: 'You will be left with smooth, and perfectly even skin that works perfectly under makeup, or over for a matte finish.'  The collagen and elastin works to create a photoshopped blur, ensuring a smoother canvas for make-up with a lightweight, but full coverage, finish. And it seems those who have tested the highly sought-after product haven't been left disappointed by the results. ‘Amazing,' penned one. 'I ordered this thinking it would end up as another expensive product which doesn't do what it promises. I was so wrong. I love this stuff.' 'My open pores are completely concealed when I put on my makeup and skin feels amazing. A must have.'  Meanwhile, a second delighted customer who called the primer 'eye opening' commented: 'It has taken me quite some time to find a product that actually fades those age-defining lines.' 'Miracle blur really does work and I honestly couldn't believe my eyes. I rarely write any reviews but it is so good I felt I had to do it justice.' And fashion expert Trinny has even offered her own top tip when it comes to applying the product: ‘You might feel that you have a bit of acne scarring on your chin, and you want to diffuse it,' she explained. 'You might have a tiny mark you might want to fill in, like Polyfilla. It will really do the trick.' And many customers were delighted to discover the primer can be used for more than just fining out wrinkles, with one saying 'it does more than it promises.' 'It even appears to be healing an old scarred spot on the side of my face that has been annoying me for ages,' wrote one. 'Love using it as a lipstick primer for bright lips - really enhances and improves appearance of lip line.' A second penned: ‘Wow! The little lines around that are starting to appear around my lips (I'm 51) vanished, and the laugh lines around my eyes blurred, too. It's a Miracle Blur, just like it says on the tin.' A third who dubbed it the 'best product ever' wrote: 'Miracle blur is truly amazing! Not only for my lip lines but also for the area on my left cheek where I have a lot of ‘craquelure' wrinkles.' 'These little wrinkles never disappeared, not with fillers, not with a thread lift and they were the first thing I noticed when I looked in the mirror. With Miracle blur I can really soften them.' Another who praised the product added: 'My first reaction was that I wanted to take a bath in it! And the more that I patted it in the farther back the clock went.' While a further said: 'My open pores are completely concealed when I put on my makeup and skin feels amazing.'   
