{ By Nic White and Laura Withers For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:56, 24 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7173763/Lamborghini-driver-accused-killing-Sophia-Naismith-Adelaide-car-YouTuber-Alex-Campbell.html }
The Lamborghini driver accused of mowing down a schoolgirl before crashing into a Chinese restaurant is a supercar vlogger and Rolex flogger. Alex Campbell, 37, runs popular YouTube channel 'Do You Know Alex?' that reviews high-end sports cars and shares his life and world travels. Sophia Naismith, 15, was killed instantly when the $328,000 car, with licence plate 'PSYKO', allegedly hit her in Glengowrie, Adelaide, about 10pm on Saturday. Campbell was charged with dangerous driving causing death and dangerous driving causing injury, as Sophia's best friend Jordyn Callea was hurt when they were struck. His wife Diana Pham was a passenger in the 2017 Lamborghini Huracan LP580-2 when it lost control minutes after leaving a supercar event. Videos on his channel show Campbell reviewing BMWs, a Bugatti, and other cars, attending motoring events, and showing viewers how to service their sports cars. Others show him travelling to the U.S. including Disneyland, along with Japan and Singapore, or just chatting as he drives his cars.  Campbell also part-owns Team Bingo Performance, which sells car parts and merchandise, and luxury watch retailer International Watch Traders. One of his most popular videos, with more than 250,000 views, shows him shopping for Rolex watches on a trip to Japan in 2017. Campbell occasionally discusses his life and business plans, though never in detail, including where his interest in cars began. 'I've grown up with cars, my dad was a mechanic and as a kid I used to pull my toys apart,' he said in one video encouraging viewers to follow their dreams.  The Lamborghini Huracan featured prominently in his videos over the past year, replacing a red Ferrari 458 that appeared in most of his videos. The PSYKO number plate is transferred between all his primary high-performance cars, with a photo from 2012 showing Ms Pham posing with a white Toyota sedan.  The Lamborghini can accelerate from zero to 100km/h in just 3.4 seconds, though Campbell was never seen driving it dangerously fast in any of his videos.  His first video of the car showed it arriving from shipping as he exclaimed: 'Oh my god, it's not real. It doesn't feel real.' In a second clip he was even more excited by its performance: 'I'd say if [the car] had wings it would probably fly.' When approached by 9News, Ms Pham described the crash as a 'freak accident' and said her husband had been driving within the speed limit.  She also noted her husband was 'not in a good state' following the crash. Campbell attended the Wintertime Show and Shine car event, just 3km away from the crash scene, immediately before the accident.   Attendees said organisers Horsepower Crew urged people to 'take it easy' when leaving and to have a safe drive home, while police monitored the exits. Fellow drivers said Campbell was well-known in the scene and drove the Lamborghini 'normally' as he left.  Campbell's neighbours said he rarely drove the car and was seen washing it every couple of week, and wasn't the type to 'do anything stupid'. Pictures of the crash outside the House of Tien restaurant show the wreckage, with its airbags deployed, after it had smashed into the building.  Restaurant owner Kiet Tran said he was cleaning the restaurant when he heard a loud 'bang'.  He said after the car crash he and Campbell immediately went to check on the girls, but sadly he knew one had died instantly. The car can travel from 0km/h to 100km/h in 3.4 seconds It has a multi-function steering wheel with phone and audio controls The car also has electric power assisted steering and a selectable driving mode  It also had factory extras which include: parking sensors, painted brake calipers and sports upgrade exhaust with optioned tips  It has protective features including: side airbags, passenger airbag, brake assist and driver airbag  Source: Car Sales Advert  Mr Tran said he and the driver then waited for the emergency services to arrive at the scene. He added the female passenger who had been in the Lamborghini was in 'shock' and had been 'crying and yelling'. Mr Tran also offered his condolences to Sophia's family. The 2017 Lamborghini Huracan LP580-2 was recently listed for sale. 'This has been by far one of the best super cars I've owned' and advertised it for a price of $328,888,' Campbell wrote in an online listing. 'The car has been cared for to the highest degree from the wrap since new to being cleaned after every drive.'  He noted there was 'no real reason' for selling the car, other than he was looking to 'try something else'.   South Australia Police said the latest crash brought the state's road toll to 59 - almost double what it was this time last year at 36. Campbell was given bail and will appear in the Adelaide Magistrates Court on July 31.  
