{ By Chris Dyer For Mailonline and Ian Gallagher and Harry Cole Deputy Political Editor and Michael Powell and Jonathan Bucks For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  10:45, 23 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7171807/Cambridge-educated-Buddhist-playwright-anti-Brexit-play-funded-EU.html }
The couple who reported Boris Johnson to the police and recorded his row with girlfriend Carrie Symonds are ardent Remainers who have spoken out about Brexit. Cambridge-educated Eve Leigh, 34, the daughter of a millionaire New Yorker, wrote a play as part of the Brexit Stage Left festival, which received funding from the Eurodram cultural project. Husband Tom Penn, 30, is also a playwright and has performed close-up magic and toured Europe as a percussionist.   It is not know where the couple currently are, as neither have been seen at the property since details of the row were published in The Guardian yesterday.   The pair were listening through the walls from their flat above while Mr Johnson and Ms Symonds argued just after midnight.  Mr Penn and wife Ms Leigh called the police after they claimed they were 'frightened and concerned' by noises coming from the flat in Camberwell, south London, during the early hours of Friday morning.  In a statement last night Mr Penn said his motivation for informing the police was not political and that 'the extent of my involvement in politics' was merely voting to remain in the EU during the 2016 referendum.  Scroll down for video.   But in a now deleted Twitter account, Ms Leigh wrote she, 'just gave Boris Johnson the finger, this weekend is unstoppable' and this summer, she added how 'all Tories suck'. A source close to Ms Symonds said the finger gesture came after the former foreign secretary spoke to her while he was taking down anti-Boris Johnson posters, which Ms Leigh said she played no part in.  The posters, which are covered in EU stars and still plastered around Ms Symonds' home, have 'F*** Boris' written across them, adding, 'we'd rather endure him as our neighbour than our prime minister'.  She also previously claimed Theresa May had brought in 'insanely cruel policies', that Brexit was 'racist' and the Home Office was 'lower than vermin' as well as criticising Mrs May's policies as 'insanely cruel towards immigrants, poor people and people of colour'.   Ms Leigh also wrote: 'If you feel sorry for her [Mrs May], have a look at yourself.'  In November 2017, she commented on the Tory leadership contest, which Mr Johnson is the favourite to win next month. The re-tweeted comment said: 'Today's debate: Has Boris Johnson set men in politics back decades?'  The previous July her account re-tweeted Guardian columnist Owen Jones urging donations to a Labour candidate in Mr Johnson's west London constituency of Uxbridge and South Ruislip.  It said: 'We can replace Boris Johnson with a Labour MP. Just imagine. Please donate here - and make history.'  Last February a tweet said: 'The government have blood on their hands after Grenfell. And now? If this cladding is the best the poor deserve rve then fit Downing Street with it.'   Anti-Conservative tweets on her Twitter account, which had been active for seven years before being taken down in the last couple of days, dated back to the Occupy London protests in 2012 when Mr Johnson was the capital's mayor.  That year she also co-wrote a production about the Occupy London protests that camped out at St Paul's Cathedral.    Last week Ms Leigh wrote on Twitter that Tories were 'pretending to respect the memories of the Holocaust dead'.  Ms Leigh is an 'experimental playwright', games designer, 'theatremaker', a former palm reader and her partner also performs close-up magic, according to an interview with The Stage. Earlier this year, one of her plays appeared in the Brexit Stage Left festival in London, a celebration of European theatre sponsored by a network of dramatists that is part-funded by the European Union. Brexit Stage Left saw a group of stand-up comedians touring Europe performing 'cutting edge' plays from across the EU'.  The project held in January received financial backing from Eurodram, a cultural campaign funded with Brussels cash. Eurodram's website reveals it is 'co-funded by the Creative European Programme of the European Union', which is a a £1 billion EU cultural project.  Brexit Stage Left was also funded by The Arts Council England, The British Academy and the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama. In an interview with The Stage magazine, Ms Leigh, who went to Jesus College at Cambridge University on a scholarship where she studied history, also complained of funding cuts to the arts  She told the publication: 'It [cuts] does lead to conservatism. It's much easier to programme someone with a track record. A lot of people are very frustrated. There aren't many opportunities and you have to stick around.'   'In the early hours of Friday morning, I answered a phone call from a takeaway food delivery driver. At the same time, I heard what sounded like shouting coming from the street. 'I went downstairs, on the phone to the driver, and collected my food. On the way back into my flat, it became clear that the shouting was coming from a neighbour's flat. It was loud enough and angry enough that I felt frightened and concerned for the welfare of those involved, so I went inside my own home, closed the door, and pressed record on the voice memos app on my phone. 'After a loud scream and banging, followed by silence, I ran upstairs, and with my wife agreed that we should check on our neighbours. I knocked three times at their front door, but there was no response. I went back upstairs into my flat, and we agreed that we should call the police. 'The police arrived within five minutes. Our call was made anonymously, and no names were given to the police. They subsequently called back to thank us for reporting, and to let us know that nobody was harmed. 'To be clear, the recordings were of the noise within my own home. My sole concern up until this point was the welfare and safety of our neighbours. I hope that anybody would have done the same thing. 'Once clear that no one was harmed, I contacted the Guardian, as I felt it was of important public interest. I believe it is reasonable for someone who is likely to become our next prime minister to be held accountable for all of their words, actions and behaviours. 'I, along with a lot of my neighbours all across London, voted to remain within the EU. That is the extent of my involvement in politics. 'The unpleasant things being said about myself and my partner, and some quite frankly bizarre and fictitious allegations, have been upsetting for not only us, but also for family, friends and fellow Camberwell neighbours, who are currently being harangued by the media. I would ask that you leave private citizens alone and focus instead on those who have chosen to run for power within the public eye. 'The attempts from some areas of the press to instead focus their stories on us, and in particular my wife, have been eye-opening, and very alarming. I would encourage anyone to record any instances where they feel concerned for another person's safety.' Born Rebecca Leigh, she described her work as attacking the 'huge ugly edifice of capitalist heteropatriarchy'.   Her mother, Abby, is a well-known artist whose work hangs in The Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Guggenheim in Manhattan.  Recently she created an 'interactive installation' called Climate Games at the Laboratory of the Insurrectionary Imagination festival in Paris.  Mr Penn, who was born in Cambridgeshire, is a trained percussionist and singer who has performed throughout Europe. He is a member of the Little Bulb Theatre in Surrey and tours in the southeast of England. The 30-year-old is also a playwright and has written six plays, according to an online biography. An online biography states he has performed at the Royal Albert Hall and St Paul's Cathedral and has created theatre productions for babies.  Raised in New York by a musician father and visual artist mother, Abby, Ms Leigh directed her first play at 16 and lived in a £15 million home. Her father was American Broadway composer Mitch Leigh who wrote the 1965 Broadway musical Man Of La Mancha, which included the huge hit The Impossible Dream. He died in 2014 at the age of 86. Man of La Mancha won five Tony awards including Best Original Score and Mr Leigh also wrote well-known TV jingles for commercials.  In 2015, a year after her husband's death, Abby Leigh listed their Upper East Side townhouse for $38million and bought an $8million home in the former New York Cancer Hospital.  She ended up reducing the price of the 12,000 sq ft, five-floor, elevator-equipped home to $24million and accepted $20.4 million for it in 2016 from Automation Townhouse LLC.  Months after Mitch's death, she purchased a $4.8million home on the Upper West Side which she sold in 2018 for the same price.  She moved to the UK at 18 and has previously said her family originated from Ukraine. Ms Leigh, who married her partner Tom in March this year, has previously written plays that featured the refugees crisis, 'subversive storytelling' among Soviet dissidents and child abuse as subject matter. She has written plays about Buddhist practices and about coming from a Jewish background.  Her religious outlook influenced the theme of her most recent play, The Trick, which covered ageing and coping with grief.  She also described the Buddhist religion as her 'biggest influence' and said she has 'been chanting for 10 years'. Her first professional play in 2014, Silent Planet, was about a writer who was held in a Soviet psychiatric institution. The work received positive reviews but her more recently, The Trick, was described by The Guardian  as 'emotionally manipulative', 'eye-rollingly cringeworthy' and called it 'a magic show with nothing up its sleeve'.  Ms Leigh bought her flat, which was formerly occupied by council tenants, above Carrie Symonds' apartment for £720,000 in April last year.  According to The Guardian, Mr Johnson was heard refusing to leave the flat in a recording made by Mr Penn, with Ms Symonds then telling Johnson he had ruined the sofa by spilling red wine. In the recording, which was passed to the newspaper after police attended the scene, Mr Johnson can be heard shouting 'get off my f***ing laptop' before a loud crashing noise is heard. Ms Symonds was also said to be heard telling Mr Johnson to 'get off me' and 'get out of my flat'. She then tells him: 'You just don't care for anything because you are spoilt. You have no care for money or anything.' At a hustings event in Birmingham today, Mr Johnson, 55, flatly refused to answer questions about the explosive row with 31-year-old Miss Symonds - who did not attend the event. Police left the scene on Friday and no action was taken by officers.  One neighbour in the building said: 'It concerns us that someone inside the house has been recording things. 'I am sorry Boris and Carrie have had to put up with this nonsense.' Another neighbour told the Telegraph: 'I heard the row, it was pretty loud. I was quite worried to be honest, it was bad. 
