food reviews
{ By Emilia Mazza For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  07:39, 23 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7171415/Consumer-watchdog-reveals-items-buy-avoid-Kmart.html }
In the past few years, Australian retailer Kmart has wowed shoppers everywhere with its on-trend and affordable range of stylish homewares and appliances.  And while many of the store's items have become cult classics, not all are top performers, according to the experts at consumer organisation CHOICE. They recently looked at a number of items, including an $89 coffee machine, to see how well these stacked up against pricier brands. While a $59 digital blender beat out another worth $2200, the organisation also revealed a $55 oil heater performed so badly it was compared to a 'warm doorstop'.  What are the Kmart items you should buy? The Anko coffee machine: $89 According to CHOICE, one item worth adding to your home is Kmart's Anko coffee machine, which is priced at $89. The machine was tested for how well it delivered flavoursome coffee and how hot the beverages were. It passed both tests with flying colours. While it was noted the machine was 'a bit fiddly to use' when compared to others, the appliance was recommended as a must-buy item for its affordable price.  Verdict: Worth buying The Anko 3 in 1 Playpen: $149 Kmart's 3 in 1 Playpen is not only well-priced at $149 but the item also performed well under testing. The consumer watchdog explained while it wasn't able to test the playpen to Australian standards (as there aren't any for playpens), but it was able to carry out testing using international standards and in-house methods. It said these methods were based on existing Australian safety standards for other baby products. The playpen was also given a tick of approval for featuring a latched gate which put an end to lifting toddlers in and out. Verdict: Worth buying  The Active & Co 45.5cm soft carry-on suitcase: $49 When it comes to purchasing a suitcase, spending more doesn't necessarily mean the product will stand up to the rigours of travel. CHOICE revealed Kmart's Active & Co 45.5cm soft carry-on, priced at $49, scored 100 per cent in its 'lift and drop' test, 94 per cent in its puncture test and 86 per cent overall. The suitcase was declared 'up there with far more expensive products' and was revealed to have outperformed a brand priced at more than $500. Verdict: Worth buying  Fleecy Anko electric blanket: $55 There's nothing worse during winter than hopping into an icy cold bed, which is why an electric blanket is a must. A version by Kmart produced under its Anko label and priced at $55 was awarded an 80 per cent performance score by the organisation's testers. While the item was found to outperform brands twice the price, testers said it did lack certain features such as extra warm foot zone, programmable settings and a timer setting. Verdict: Worth buying  Home & Co 1.5L Digital Blender: $59  A digital blender is a handy all-purpose kitchen item that combines a blender, juice and food processor. And while these appliances often come with hefty price tags, Kmart's Home & Co 1.5L digital blender, priced at $59, was found to be a winner. The item was awarded a staggeringly high 90 per cent for overall performance. 'It certainly blitzed some of the (more expensive) competition, outclassing even a $2200 model,' the experts said. Verdict: Worth buying  What are the Kmart items that are best to avoid? Anko electric oil heater: $55 With so many heaters on the market, it can be tough finding a model that warms up the house but doesn't cost the earth to run. And while Kmart does have a comprehensive range on offer, it was found the store's electric oil heater, priced at $55, isn't an appliance worth considering. According to CHOICE, their director of reviews declared the product 'pretty much a warm doorstop', and extended his 'commiserations' to anyone who purchased it. Testers revealed the heater took almost an hour to raise the temperature by 5 degrees Celcius and said it didn't manage to lift the temperature higher than 10 degrees Celcius. The appliance scored just 38 per cent for its heating abilities and 48 per cent overall. Verdict: Best to avoid  10ft Trampoline & Steelflex Pro Enclosure Combo Set: $159 Although this trampoline set from Kmart, priced at $159, offers significant savings, it's not an item CHOICE recommends parents purchase. While it does offer some safety features in the form of a netting enclosure system, the consumer watchdog said it failed on four major safety tests. The item received a score of just 20 per cent for overall performance. Verdict: Best to avoid  70cm hard case luggage: $55 While the organisation was all too happy to recommend Kmart's soft carry-on luggage, it didn't give the same glowing reviews to the store's hard case luggage. CHOICE's report stated luggage, hard or soft, was 'put through its paces'. Testing included dousing the items in water and these dropping from a height. It found the 70cm hard case, priced at $55, completely failed the 'drop test', and after it was dropped also sustained significant damage. Verdict: Best to avoid   
