{ By Billie Schwab Dunn For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  01:26, 20 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7156935/Clarins-Double-Serum-popular-world-one-bottle-sells-eight-seconds.html }
One of the world's most popular serums has been revealed - and it's such a hit that one bottle sells every eight seconds around the globe. Clarins' Double Serum, $98, boasts thousands of glowing five-star reviews, and it has won awards for its anti-ageing powers and ability to 'turn back the clock'. Using the extracts of 21 plants to firm, hydrate and brighten the skin, beauty experts say the serum is suitable for all different skin types and will help with the loss of firmness and elasticity. 'Infused with twenty plant extracts, this anti-aging serum works to target fine lines, wrinkles, visible pores and slackened skin,' the Mecca website reads. 'Skin appears firmer, radiant and more youthful-looking. Dermatologically tested, non-comedogenic.'  The serum is Clarins' number-one selling product, thanks to its ability to make skin soft, hydrated and radiant.  The serum is suited for people over the age of 25 and works to firm the skin, smooth wrinkles, even out the complexion and diminish the look of pores.  - The skin is firmed - Wrinkles are visibly smoothed - Radiance and evenness are restored to the complexion - Pores are diminished - Softens and hydrates the skin - Brings radiance to the complexion  The most on-trend ingredient is turmeric, which has been included thanks to its exceptional anti-aging properties. But the serum also includes plant extracts such as teasel, which is said to 'boost radiance', avocado peptides to help purify and plump up the skin and marsh samphire to help skin retain hydration.     In a satisfaction test on 362 women, after seven days of use 88 per cent saw visibly smoother skin, 83 per cent said their skin was more radiant and 74 per cent said it was visibly firmer. This comes with thousands of positive reviews online, with many praising Clarins' Double Serum's ability to act as two serums in one.  One woman went as far to say it was a 'staple serum in my routine'. 'Worth the money. It has basically completely removed my redness, unevenness of skin tone, smoothed out fine lines and prevented pimples. Very nourishing. Highly recommend!,' one happy customer said. A different reviewer said both she and her mum use the serum and neither can live without it. 'I noticed a difference within three days of using it and my skin has never been better! It's soft, supple and my redness and acne has completely settled down!,' she said. However not everyone who has bought the serum has been impressed with it.  'I used it for three months by including it in my night routine; however, it has not impressed me much, I didn't get any benefit,' one person said. 'It does its job but I have tried better serums at a lower price.' 
