food reviews
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  00:24, 19 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7156291/Murder-Mystery-achieves-biggest-opening-weekend-Netflix-film.html }
The Adam Sandler and Jennifer Aniston starring film was no hit with critics, currently sitting at a disappointing 47% on review aggregate site Rotten Tomatoes.  But that didn't stop Murder Mystery from becoming a smash hit with audiences over its opening weekend, according to the film's producer-distributors, Netflix. '30,869,863 accounts watched Murder Mystery in its first 3 days - the biggest opening weekend ever for a Netflix Film,' tweeted the streaming service on Tuesday.  The global movie juggernaut then broke the figure down into local and international numbers. '13,374,914 accounts in the US and Canada, and 17,494,949 more worldwide [watched the movie],' tweeted the company's official @NetflixIsAJoke account. The earth-shattering debut is just the latest success for Netflix, whose Sandra Bullock vehicle Bird Box was watched by 45 million global accounts last year in its first week of release alone.  Adam and Jennifer star in Murder Mystery as Nick and Audrey Spitz. He's a New York City police officer and she's a hairdresser and murder mystery novel aficionado. After the two meet a mysterious European man on a flight, they're invited to an exclusive getaway on a billionaire's super yacht. But the billionaire is murder while they're on board, and the suspicion rests on the two interlopers. The film, which was originally set to star Charlize Theron when it was in development in 2012, has had a multi-year gestation period. Adam was attached as early as 2013, though his mooted co-stars Emily Blunt and Colin Firth denied any connection to the project. Now that the film is being released by Netflix, it will be part of Adam's overall deal with the streaming service. He originally signed a four-picture deal with the studio/streamer in 2014, which was then expanded by an additional four movies in 2017. His movies so far, which have included the western–comedy The Ridiculous 6, the action–comedy The Do-Over and Sandy Wexler, have all been critical flops, though Netflix has indicated that they were among its most popular titles at their time of release. He also starred in the critically adored Noah Baumbach film The Meyerowitz Stories, which cast him opposite Ben Stiller and Dustin Hoffman. Adam and Jennifer previously led Just Go With It (2011), but the two have been friends for years preceding its release. While appearing on Jimmy Kimmel, the Cake star revealed that the two had been friends ever since they met at Jerry's Deli in Los Angeles, prior to the breakout success of Friends.   
