food reviews
{ By Laura Withers For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:23, 18 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7152157/Study-reveals-gig-economy-jobs-pay-best-says-men-twice-likely-freelance-work.html }
As more Australians turn to the likes of Airtasker and Uber to supplement their incomes, a new study has revealed which gig economy jobs pay the best. The survey, commissioned by the Victorian government, found almost 7 per cent of working Australians have searched online for gig economy jobs in the last year. Most were earning extra cash on the side of their regular jobs, with 25 per cent of workers saying the money was 'important' rather than 'essential' compared to only 15 per cent who thought it was 'essential' for 'basic needs'. Daily Mail Australia spoke to three people regularly earning upwards of $50 an hour in such freelance work, and are relishing the flexibility of the new economy.  Scroll down for video  The survey also found men were twice as likely to accept freelance roles as women, and there was an age disparity depending on which sector the role was in. Transport and food workers were found to be younger and usually aged 18 to 34, while creative and media workers were likely to be aged 50 to 64.  The survey also found transport and food delivery workers would earn around $20 while professional service workers would take home about $56 – with the average hourly rate just above $32. 60 per cent said they got paid per job rather than per hour. The five most popular platforms used by Australians over the last year were Airtasker, Uber, Freelance, Uber Eats and Deliveroo.  Marie, 38, a film student from Sydney uses Airtasker to supplement her income and also to work towards her educational course. By using the app to apply for roles including video editing and voice-over work, she's been able to put together a portfolio while getting paid. 'I can put together a portfolio for my course but get paid to do it,' she said. She said sometimes voice-over roles can take as little as 15 minutes to complete, which means she can make some cash in a short space of time. 'If a recording takes 10 minutes and uploading takes five minutes I can sometimes make $60 in 15 minutes,' she said. But Marie said as the market has become over-saturated and some people are posting lower-paid jobs. She said she finds it works best to first pitch the hours you'd be willing to work in return for the cash. 'If you don't agree on set hours you could end up working for $15 for four hours,' she said. She added she prefers remote working rather than working on site as there's less of a risk. 'I've had a lot of success with remote working.  'There's less worries - if you're working on location you worry you're going to be late, or that it might not be safe or there will be unsanitary conditions.' The survey also found that almost half of those who hold down an gig economy role do so for less than five hours every week – but they're satisfied with the flexibility this allows them. Christian, 30, from Sydney works full-time as a public servant but uses Airtasker for small one-off jobs in his spare time. He often applies for one-off roles such as assembling flat-packs or delivering items for small businesses. He said he could get paid anything from $50 to $80 depending on the length and size of the job. 'The job can vary, it can be anything from one hour to 30minutes, but no more than two hours,' Christian said. Christian said the Airtasker app suited him as he could fit in the extra jobs around the shifts he works with his regular job. 'I enjoy working in my spare time. Things like flat pack assembling some people can't be bothered to do but I actually find it quite therapeutic. For me the money is a bonus on the side.' He said the app works well for him as he uses it part-time. 'Personally I find it great. But for people who do it as a full-time job it can be a bit harder.  'Sometimes people put in offers that aren't reasonable which are a bit low ball offers,' Christian said. 'I find it better as a side job but you can definitely make it work full-time.' Tara, 22, has created a full-time business from Airtasker after joining the platform a little over a year ago. Her business named Tara Tasker does anything from cleaning and professional organisation to hospitality and admin. 'I've managed to go full-time because I've built up an ongoing client basis and have around 100 reviews of my services,' she said.  Tara originally left full-time work after experiencing negativity in the workplace. 'Before this I worked in hospitality, I was a pizza chef and worked in admin. But I experienced a lot of underpayments and wasn't getting paid for my time correctly,' she said. Airtasker  -34 per cent Uber - 22 per cent Freelancer - 11 per cent Uber Eats - 10 per cent Deliveroo - 8 per cent   But now having built up her own business Tara can set her own fee. 'I started off by just charging minimum wage and then I added travel expenses. But now I charge around $50 per hour plus the platform fee.' Tara said she's very rarely had a negative experience while using the platform. 'I've had a good run. I've had a small amount of issues with payments or job descriptions but besides that it's great. 'Much better than a regular job. The platform is changing lives.' Tara said jobs listed on the platform aren't always what you'd expect. 'I did a research job where they needed to take my body measurements and take pictures. 'It took about an hour and I got $30,' she said. She said in order to achieve success on the platform she said it's important to 'be consistent' and to 'build a reputation'.  The study was conducted by Queensland University of Technology, the University of Adelaide and University of Technology Sydney and surveyed 14,000 people.  
