food reviews
{ By Danielle Zoellner For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:39, 17 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-7151229/INSANE-garlic-hack-reveals-peel-cloves-SECONDS.html }
A garlic hack showing how to peel the cloves in mere seconds has gone viral, as people confess to never knowing it could be that simple.  On Sunday, Twitter user Twitter user @VPestilenZ shared a quick method to removing all the cloves from the head of garlic, and all it took was a paring knife.  'As someone who makes a lot of Korean food, this is the best method for getting garlic peeled,' the user wrote while sharing a video of the method.  The hands featured in the video seamlessly removed each clove of garlic from the peel before placing it into a bowl. All it took was inserting a paring knife into the bottom of the clove.  It appeared quick and painless compared to other gather methods — including purchasing a garlic press or shaking the cloves to remove the peel.   The hack quickly went viral after the Twitter user first shared it on Sunday, and the video has since been viewed more than 4.9 million times.  Chrissy Teigen — who has written two cookbooks and is known to require huge numbers of garlic cloves for her recipes — even appeared shocked by the viral hack.  She responded to the tweet with a lengthy 'what' to express her surprise.  Other people also commented on the video calling the hack 'life changing' and a 'game changer' for cooking all future recipes.   'God really should have given us an instruction manual cuz it couldn't have been this easy to peel garlic,' one person wrote.  Another person said: 'Dawg. The reason I only buy minced garlic is because garlic is too hard to peel. Game changer.'  Twitter users were wary on if the hack was actually as simple as it looked because of how difficult it's always been to remove the cloves from the peel. But one person was committed to getting the hack down.  'I'm buying 100 heads of garlic today and practicing all night,' the person wrote in response to the video.  Despite the intrigue around the hack, a few cooking novices confessed they thought they might stab their hand when attempting with a knife.  One person wrote, 'Cut to me stabbing right through the garlic directly into my hand on first try and getting an Uber to hospital.'  But the hack could be worthy of trying for anyone who deals with garlic cloves often in their own cooking.   
