food reviews
{ By Rebecca Lawrence For Mailonline   Published:  08:01, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7946321/Love-Island-superfan-Margot-Robbie-fangirls-Lucie-Donlan-Jordan-Hames.html }
She's a Love Island superfan, who has even made an appearance during one of the challenges.  And Margot Robbie finally achieved her goal of meeting the cast as they attended the London premiere of Birds of Prey: And the Fantabulous Emancipation Of One Harley Quinn at the BFI IMAX on Wednesday.  The Australian actress, 29, couldn't contain her excitement as she bumped into some of the cast from series five, snapping selfies before inviting them to the premiere afterparty.  Margot, who looked sensational in a black feathered top and billowing skirt teamed with hot pink gloves, made a beeline for the Islanders on the red carpet.  The Oscar-nominated actress beamed broadly as she snapped selfies with Jordan Hames, Michael Griffiths and Lucie Rose Donlan, before posing for professional pictures.  Keen to spend more time with them, Margot extended an invitation to the afterparty, with the Hollywood star seen downing shots of tequila with the reality stars.   Margot has previously expressed her love for the ITV2 show, admitting that she and her husband Tom Ackerley, tune in every evening to watch the glamorous contestants battle it out for each other's affections. During series four of the hit show, Margot even received a shout out on screen, making an appearance during a Twitter Bingo challenge. In the game, Islanders were tasked with filling in the blanks on tweets about them, with one revealing comments Margot had made about the cast.   The tweet, which was in reference to Dr Alex George and Megan Barton Hanson, read: 'I would love to see the moment Dr Alex sees the video of BLANK BLANK not only mentioning him by name, but actually flattered that he mentioned hers! If he can't have Megan, maybe Megan's lookalike will do! #DrLove #loveisland.' As Alex and his fellow contestants were seen whispering Australian beauty Margot's name as the answer, an awestruck Alex uttered in disbelief: 'It can't be.' Looking impressed with the possibility of his answer turning out to be correct, Wes Nelson told his girlfriend Megan - a onetime target of Alex's affections: 'Mate, if she has, that's f**king brilliant.'  Once it was revealed that the answer was true, Alex jumped to his feet and and punched the air, then dropped to the ground and did push-ups, before leaping back up and performing the ubiquitous Floss dance. Later in the Beach Hut, he enthused: 'Margot Robbie knows who I am! Mind blown!'  The revelation came after Margot admitted she 'doesn't see the resemblance' to Megan, despite being a huge fan of the ITV2 reality show. The screen star addressed the comparisons with the villa vixen, but joked that she could never appear on Love Island because she's a 'crisp-eating fatty'. Margot has yet to comment on her opinions about this year's crop of Islanders, but has no doubt been catching up on the series whilst travelling around the world to promote Birds Of Prey.    Margot returns in her Suicide Squad role of Harley Quinn in the movie, alongside Mary Elizabeth Winstead and Ewan McGregor. The film stars Winstead as Huntress, Jurnee Smollett-Bell as Black Canary, Ella Jay Basco as Cassandra Cain, McGregor as villain Black Mask, Chris Messina as Victor Zsasz and Rosie Perez as Renee Montoya. Ali Wong of Fresh Off The Boat, Robert Catrini of American Crime Story, Steven Williams of IT and Derek Wilson of Preacher complete the cast.  The film's storyline centers on Quinn after she splits with Suicide Squad's Joker, played by Jared Leto. It isn't long before the film sees Quinn, Huntress (Winstead), and Black Canary (Smollett-Bell) transform into a posse of powerful women who set off to protect another young woman from criminal mastermind Black Mask, played by McGregor.  Birds of Prey early reactions are filled with praise for Margot Robbie in R-rated superhero romp that is drawing comparisons to Deadpool  Warner Bros.' new DC Comics adaptation Birds of Prey has screened for the first wave of critics, and the reactions are overwhelmingly positive. While the first full reviews won't be published until February 5, two days before Birds of Prey hits theaters February 7, the first reactions from several critics on Twitter and Instagram have surfaced. Many critics have been comparing the Warner Bros./DC movie to Deadpool, since they are both over-the-top in outrageous ways and they're both R-rated.  IGN critic Laura Prudom gushed that Birds of Prey, 'is a riot - oozing with attitude and some of the most inventive, bone-crunching fight sequences in the superhero genre to date. She admitted that she had, 'low expectations' for the film but was, 'pleasantly surprised,' though she added it, 'doesn't reinvent the wheel, but has style to spare.' Los Angeles Times critic Katie Walsh calls the movie, 'totally campy and brutal carnival ride, a colorful cheeky blast,' while throwing her support behind Ewan McGregor for a Best Supporting Actor nomination. Mashable critic Angie J. Han had a more mixed reaction, stating that Birds of Prey featured, 'winning characters, above-average action, and a killer soundtrack hampered by uneven tone and pacing.' She added that the girls are,' at their best together, and they're not together enough,' and that Mary Elizabeth Winstead's Huntress, 'is the not-so-secret MVP.'  Fandango's Erik Davis said the biggest highlight of Birds of Prey was Margot Robbie, who is 'fantabulous as Harley, while also proving that sometimes our most valued relationships are the ones we have w/ good food.'  Mashable's Alison Foreman praised both the movie, which she called, 'a solid breakup movie' and the soundtrack, which, 'slaps' while calling it 'leagues better than Suicide Squad.'  Atom Tickets' Alisha Grauso described the movie as, 'if John Wick were run through a crazy funhouse filter and stuffed full of glitter and f-bombs' adding, 'I'm into this movie completely.'  Variety's Courtney Howard called the movie an, 'absolute blast' while calling Margot Robbie, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Jurnee Smollett-Bell, Rosie Perez and Ella Jay Basco's performances, 'perfection.'  Birds of Prey is a follow-up, of sorts, to 2016's Suicide Squad, following Margot Robbie's Harley Quinn in the aftermath of her leaving The Joker (Jared Leto). She teams up with Huntress (Winstead), Black Canary (Smollett-Bell) and Renee Montoya (Rosie Perez) to help a young woman escape a crime lord. Birds of Prey hits theaters nationwide on February 7.    
