{ By Jessica Green For Mailonline   Published:  08:21, 7 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7112261/Boots-No7s-new-dark-circle-corrector-waiting-list-29-000-hitting-shelves.html }
Following the roaring success of its firming booster and dark spot correcting serums, Boots has launched its latest addition to the No7 Laboratories collection. The new Dark Circle Corrector caused quite a stir before its launch on Wednesday, with more than 29,000 people joining the waiting list. According to the brand, the product has been designed to 'deliver fast visible results' and reduce the appearance of dark circles within four weeks. So it's no wonder fans are going crazy for the item, which was seven years in the making and costs £28. Those fortunate enough to have tried the corrector took to Instagram to rave about it. 'I was lucky enough to test this last year and I can honestly say it is brilliant. No wonder there's such a long waiting list... I better go hide mine,' wrote one reviewer.  Another said: 'Been using this for a week and have noticed a difference. Love it.' Boots claim 80 per cent of women saw a visible reduction in the appearance of dark circles within a week when testing the product.  The UK retailer added that the cream is 'clinically proven' to reduce the look of darkness below the eyes by up to 30 per cent within four weeks.  No7's scientific advisor, Dr Mike Bell said: 'We know that dark circles are a key unmet concern for consumers, so at No7 we've been carrying out scientific research to understand the skin causes that we could directly address with our own technology.'  The brand has identified three main causes which largely contribute to bags under the eyes: thin fragile skin, inflammation and hyper pigmentation. They believe this cream has the secret formula which will drastically reduce the look of dark circles.   The cream includes Hyaluronic acid caffeine, licorice, algae extract, and vitamin C, and was launched on June 5. The No7 Laboratories range launched last year with their rescue skin pastes - which are said to reduce redness.  The brand regularly have popular products - earlier this year their firming booster serum and dark spot correcting serum had a huge waiting list of 36,000 people. And in April, one of their mascaras was so popular that it is sold once every nine seconds across the UK. The £14 Full 360 Mascara became a best-seller and Boots admitted it had to carefully manage stock of the mascara to ensure it didn't sell out too quickly - and that even its own employees were surprised by its popularity. 
