{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:19, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7945451/Birds-Prey-early-reactions-filled-praise-Margot-Robbie.html }
Warner Bros.' new DC Comics adaptation Birds of Prey has screened for the first wave of critics, and the reactions are overwhelmingly positive. While the first full reviews won't be published until February 5, two days before Birds of Prey hits theaters February 7, the first reactions from several critics on Twitter and Instagram have surfaced. Many critics have been comparing the Warner Bros./DC movie to Deadpool, since they are both over-the-top in outrageous ways and they're both R-rated.  IGN critic Laura Prudom gushed that Birds of Prey, 'is a riot - oozing with attitude and some of the most inventive, bone-crunching fight sequences in the superhero genre to date. She admitted that she had, 'low expectations' for the film but was, 'pleasantly surprised,' though she added it, 'doesn't reinvent the wheel, but has style to spare.' Los Angeles Times critic Katie Walsh calls the movie, 'totally campy and brutal carnival ride, a colorful cheeky blast,' while throwing her support behind Ewan McGregor for a Best Supporting Actor nomination. Mashable critic Angie J. Han had a more mixed reaction, stating that Birds of Prey featured, 'winning characters, above-average action, and a killer soundtrack hampered by uneven tone and pacing.' She added that the girls are,' at their best together, and they're not together enough,' and that Mary Elizabeth Winstead's Huntress, 'is the not-so-secret MVP.'  Fandango's Erik Davis said the biggest highlight of Birds of Prey was Margot Robbie, who is 'fantabulous as Harley, while also proving that sometimes our most valued relationships are the ones we have w/ good food.'  Mashable's Alison Foreman praised both the movie, which she called, 'a solid breakup movie' and the soundtrack, which, 'slaps' while calling it 'leagues better than Suicide Squad.'  Atom Tickets' Alisha Grauso described the movie as, 'if John Wick were run through a crazy funhouse filter and stuffed full of glitter and f-bombs' adding, 'I'm into this movie completely.'  Variety's Courtney Howard called the movie an, 'absolute blast' while calling Margot Robbie, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Jurnee Smollett-Bell, Rosie Perez and Ella Jay Basco's performances, 'perfection.'  Birds of Prey is a follow-up, of sorts, to 2016's Suicide Squad, following Margot Robbie's Harley Quinn in the aftermath of her leaving The Joker (Jared Leto). She teams up with Huntress (Winstead), Black Canary (Smollett-Bell) and Renee Montoya (Rosie Perez) to help a young woman escape a crime lord. Birds of Prey hits theaters nationwide on February 7.    
