{ By Daily Mail Australia Reporter   Published:  16:58, 3 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7099731/Fans-SLAM-MasterChef-star-Sandeep-Pandit-cooking-Indian-curries.html }
He's the MasterChef hopeful who has wowed the judges with his culinary skills. But viewers of the show have slammed Sandeep Pandit for cooking 'too many Indian curries' on the show. Taking to Twitter recently, one viewer wrote: 'I know this is going to sound mean spirited but I want Sandeep to lose otherwise we are only encouraging his behaviour of only ever cooking one dish.' Scroll down for video  Another viewer tweeted: 'How can you be a ''MasterChef'' if you just know one type of cuisine? Shouldn't it be diverse?' 'I'm waiting to see Sandeep cook something other than Indian cuisine. Getting by too easily with these challenges just cooking Indian,' another fan tweeted. Other fans quickly jumped to Sandeep's defence on the social media platform.  'For everyone complaining that @sandeep_cooks cooks too many curries, It's an IMMUNITY PIN!!! You go with what you know best!!!!! It's your only chance!!!' one Twitter user wrote. Meanwhile, another stated: 'People complaining about #masterchefAU that Sandeep is making "too many curries" - um, there is no such thing as curry. It's something white people call Indian food. Everything that you call curry are completely distinct entities.' And the divide comes after Sandeep announced his first brush with fame was competing on Indian Idol back in 2007. Speaking to TV Week last week, the 37-year-old reality TV star said: 'I used to sing for my engineering college band. [Indian Idol] was a good experience but I didn't make it past the first round.'  And the IT project manager wept with joy last week after one of his meals on the show received rave reviews from British celebrity chef, Rick Stein. Sandeep welled up with tears as his Indian dish was lauded by the English restaurateur and fellow judges, Gary Mehigan, George Calombaris and Matt Preston. The aspiring chef was seen holding his hands in prayer position as he described the moment as 'spiritual.' 'Cooking food to give someone pleasure has always been something that I've done and to me I think that is spiritual,' Sandeep told the judging panel. 'This is almost like seeing god,' The Victorian cook added. 
