{ By Rachel Mcgrath For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:00, 31 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7089837/Michelle-Williams-Sam-Rockwell-make-stylish-pair-Emmy-FYC-event-Fosse-Verdon-LA.html }
They starred as choreographer and director Bob Fosse and Broadway dancer Gwen Verdon in the FX series Fosse/Verdon.  And on Thursday night, Sam Rockwell and Michelle Williams attended an Emmy For Your Consideration event in Beverly Hills.  The actor, 50, and the actress, 38, both earned rave reviews for their performances in the series.  Williams once again showed off her flair for fashion, pairing a long-sleeved black knit top with an ankle-length animal print skirt with buttons down the front. She stepped out in black sandal heels and wore her short blonde hair sleekly styled. Rockwell put on a natty show in a dark red and black patterned two-piece suit which he wore with a black t-shirt and shoes.  The chiseled star sported some heavy designer stubble.  Fosse is best known for directing and choreographing Cabaret and All That Jazz but the series aimed to show the important role his muse and wife Verdon played during his career.  Fosse/Verdon is based on the Sam Wasson biography Fosse and has Lin-Manuel Miranda as one of its executive producers. The series tells the story of the romantic relationship and creative collaboration between the choreographer and the stage star who together revolutionized Broadway musicals. 'She was considered the greatest Broadway dancer of all time and he was a failed actor,' Williams said during an appearance last month on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert. 'She was sort of his behind the scenes fixer, for many many years, uncredited fixer, and one of the things the show hopes to do is correct that,' she explained. Rockwell previously told EW.com he too hoped the drama will change the perception of Verdon and her importance.  'It’s fun to correct the record with her, and what her contribution to his choreography involved,' the actor said. 'This show will hopefully do that.' He went on: 'They were sort of connected at the hip. It’s even more than a love story, it’s like a symbiotic thing that they have.' Fosse and Verdon were married from 1960 to 1987, the year of Fosse's death although they had in fact separated in 1971. Verdon passed away in 2000.  The couple's daughter Nicole, 56, served as a co-executive producer and creative consultant on the eight-episode FX series.  
