food reviews
{ By Danyal Hussain For Mailonline   Published:  18:49, 30 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7087661/Customer-leaves-negative-review-Welsh-restaurant-staff-spoke-Welsh-other.html }
A customer left a negative review of a restaurant in Wales on TripAdvisor, slamming staff for speaking to each other in Welsh. The reviewer called staff at the Gorwel restaurant in the Plas Heli Sailing Club in Pwllheli, north west Wales, 'rude' for not using English when discussing food orders with colleagues. Known only as 'Tinkproa' on TripAdvisor, the angry visitor claimed that workers spoke Welsh in front of customers but English among themselves. They also described the town itself as 'awful' and that they would 'never visit again'. The review read: 'We have to attend sailing events at Plas Heli and despite pleading to out national body, ended up in here again. 'This restaurant is attached to the sailing facility and is run as a commercial venture with no regard to sailors needs. It is my third visit and has got worse. Service is slow beyond belief, choice on a Sunday poor. 'The staff are nice individually but when talking to each other about your order they talk in Welsh, which is just rude. At the end of the day the same staff sat around and chatted freely among themselves in English. 'Luckily I will never have to visit awful Pwllheli again. 'It is appalling that so much money was spend developing this place and now it is so poorly managed.' The review sparked outrage. Heidi Bakewell, manager of the restaurant, said: 'It frustrates me so much that people have this attitude. 'I am so shocked that anyone would find my staff rude just for speaking their own language between them. 'Luckily its a minority of our visitors like this. 'I don't normally reply on TripAdvisor but when they make out we're being racist or rude for speaking our own language it's too much.' The manager's reply on TripAdvisor in full read: 'I'm very sorry you felt like this after visiting our establishment, especially after the staff bent over backwards to look after all our training squads and parents despite it already being busy with our regular customers.  'Our staff are mainly first language Welsh speakers, it is their native language and I 100 per cent encourage them to speak their own language, being a Welsh learner myself I actually appreciate it.  'If they were speaking English later it was more than likely due to the few non Welsh speakers we have.  'I certainly when in another country don't expect everyone to switch to my language and I certainly don't consider them to be rude.  'All classes are told they can pre-order food at the beginning of the event. If people aren't organised enough to do that we accommodate where we can, however when were busy it's not always possible. 'As we cannot survive on sailing events alone, only [by] our regular customers and the day to day business, [they] are a large priority, even when the sailing events are on.  '99 per cent of everyone who visited this weekend were extremely happy with the service and appreciated how busy all the staff were and how hard they worked.' Others have commented calling the reviewer 'narrow-minded' for their comments. This is not the first time that negative TripAdvisor reviews regarding the Welsh language have come under fire. Tudur Owen, the Anglesey-born comic who owns the Ty Golchi restaurant and shop in Bangor, spoke out last year about the 'relentless' complaints from English customers about his staff speaking Welsh. At the time he said: 'A minority of English people do seem to be quite ignorant of the fact that people speak Welsh as their first language - it's not a hobby and we don't speak it to make English people feel isolated. 'It's not a secret code.' 
