food reviews
{ By Jennifer Newton for MailOnline   Published:  12:19, 28 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/travel_news/article-7077747/Tiny-kiosk-seaside-pier-Wales-named-one-Britains-best-traditional-restaurants.html }
A tiny kiosk on a seaside pier has been named as one of Britain's best traditional restaurants. Whistlestop on the Pier can only seat eight people inside, while another 20 can eat outside in the bracing fresh air. But the compact restaurant on Bangor Pier - with stunning views of Snowdonia and the Menai Strait in North Wales - scooped the prize for traditional restaurant of the year in the Welsh Food Awards 2019.  Owner Terry Thomas, who runs Whistlestop with his wife June, said the cafe's idyllic location and intimate setting is part of the draw for many of its guests. He said: 'Because it is small, conversational magic is often made between the customers as they share experiences with each other.' The cafe on Bangor Pier has signature local dishes including seafood chowder, Menai Strait mussels in a garlic and white wine sauce with sourdough bread, and Welsh rarebit. The owners say they pride themselves on utilising local ingredients and suppliers for the authentic Welsh feel, including burgers that are handmade using beef from Welsh black cattle reared on Anglesey and eggs from 'happy hens' near Llanfairfechan. The couple even make their own traditional Welsh fruitbread Bara Birth and Scuffins - a cross of a scone and a muffin - at their home fresh every day. Mr Thomas added: 'We always try to accommodate our customers' requests which can be anything from a hot dog through to a fish finger buttie or a salad sandwich. 'Everything we cook we do in their presence.  'The children in particular take delight in seeing pancakes prepared and cooked in front of their eyes. 'Customer care is indeed our highest priority. 'We have never sought reviews but when they do appear on Facebook, Google and TripAdvisor we take them extremely seriously.'  
