{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:37, 28 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/bills/article-7061985/Earn-money-stock-photography-Stockimo-app-launches.html }
A new mobile phone app has launched offering snap-happy amateur photographers the chance to earn some extra cash by selling their personal pictures.  Stockimo, owned by stock photography site Alamy, allows users to contribute photos taken on their smartphone to a library of stock images in exchange for a fee each time their pictures are published. Photos can be of anything and everything, from selfies to pets and holidays to food - and depending on how popular your picture is, you could earn hundreds of pounds.  One lucky contributor even managed to snap up £2,780 from a sale - not bad for a single iPhone shot.   The images contributed will be sold on Alamy as well as through its distribution network and if popular, can be bought time and time again as technically the photo is licensed out, rather than sold to just one buyer. However, one of the main drawbacks of the service currently is that the system is only available to iPhone users who have an iPhone 4 or above and Stockimo has not revealed whether Android users will be able to contribute in the future.  Contributors choose a photo they want to upload and submit it via the app, tagging their photos with relevant keywords to make it easier for buyers to find photos that would work for them.  Stockimo then reviews the photo and gives it a rating out of four; pictures are only accepted if their rating is above two. If photos are accepted they will go on sale right away.  Users will be given limited feedback if their image hasn't been accepted but it could be for a variety of reasons.  Photos will be rejected as 'inappropriate' if the content is unsuitable, illegal, or if the shot was not taken with a phone. Any photos that are deemed offensive, include nudity or are tagged incorrectly will be rejected. Images will only be eligible for purchase once they have been rated by the Stockimo team, which is made up of people from the photography industry, including buyers and sellers. Contributors have no control over where their images are sold, so once you've sent them in, you must expect to relinquish all creative control.  As a bonus, anyone who signed up to Alamy before Stockimo launched will receive a special commission.  Stock image libraries work on the basis that publishers, companies or individuals pay a licence fee each time they download and publish an image.   The price of each licence is largely dependent on the end use and how much exposure it gets. Fees range from £15 for an online use and up to £400-plus for advertising usages.  The average sale price for UK contributors is currently running at £30, however, contributors will only receive 20 per cent of each sale. If a picture is sold for £30, a user will bank £6.   If an image is successfully sold, users are paid at the end of each month through PayPal, however, to qualify for a payment, your pictures must have earned at least £7 or more.  Although the app has only recently launched, there are already over 21,000 UK contributors with photos on sale using the app and over 30,000 from around the rest of the world.  Most UK contributors have around 17 pictures on the app, although users who have successful sales average a much higher 130 photos on sale.    Stockimo said that it's not always about the volume of photos on sale, it's more about having the right photo for the right customer.  This means that for photographers looking to do well, they have to do a bit of research to see what is trending and popular and be a little more creative with their photography. There are some UK contributors who have only a small number of photos on sale and yet have the perfect shot that a customer needs - this means there's also an element of luck involved. As an example, within the top 50 UK earners, there are at least 10 contributors with fewer than 100 photos on sale.  Photographers can add as many filters to the images as they wish and are also able to send in breaking news photos that have been taken in the past 24 hours. The photos could eventually be used for all sorts of things including calendars, adverts and magazines.     
