{ By Matilda Rudd For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:01, 28 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7076381/An-natural-pot-moisturiser-hundreds-five-star-reviews.html }
A moisturiser from Finland has been praised by thousands of women who claim it leaves the skin feeling soft and supple for a full 24 hours. Lumene's Nordic Hydra Intense Hydration 24 Hour Moisturiser, which ships to Australia through LookFantastic, is heralded as being 'hydrating but not greasy', 'fast absorbing' and 'the best-kept skincare secret'. At $33 a pot it's not the cheapest moisturiser on the market but more than 232 people have written positive reviews online saying they would happily repurchase it.  'I've been using this product for about nine months. After years of anti wrinkle/anti ageing creams I discovered all I really needed was a good moisturiser which suited my skin,' one person said. 'It's lovely and light, easily absorbed and lasts all day. It's pricey but a little goes a long way and I consider it's a very good value for money product.' 'I really love this moisturiser, it really suits my dry and sensitive skin,' another said. 'It's rich and creamy but doesn't feel greasy on the face. Its incredibly fast absorbing and actually smells amazing.' A third added: 'Since I don't wear much makeup I usually use a thicker, oilier cream even in the daytime as my skin gets dry easily. 'However, I've used this product on hot summer days when I don't feel like putting a thick moisturiser on my face but still want my skin to feel plump and moisturised.' The website puts the product's success down to its fine-tuned ingredients, which are sourced from the cooler northern regions. It contains pure arctic spring water, which works to 'promote a healthy-looking complexion', and organic Nordic birch sap. The birch sap, which comes from a birch tree, contains a high level of manganese, a mineral that helps blood sugar regulation and bone structure through calcium absorption. A special 'Hydra-Technology' the company used to create the gel-like moisturiser also works to support continuous hydration through the day. It doesn't contain alcohol, sulphates or parabens, which can dry out the face. 
