food reviews
{ By Adam Mccleery and Kelsey Wilkie For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  17:24, 27 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7075183/Australian-ISIS-fighters-families-allowed-home-intelligence-agencies-say.html }
Security reviews by intelligence agencies including ASIO has led to recommendations Australian jihadists and their families who fled to ISIS territory should be allowed to return home. The intelligence sector told the Federal Government earlier this year jihadists pose less of a threat to Australia if they are kept in custody or monitored through surveillance in the country, The Daily Telegraph reported.  NSW Minister for Counter Terrorism Anthony Roberts chose not to talk about specifics of the recommendations but did say he agreed with the calls to bring jihadists home.  'It’s in our interest to actually have those people in custody rather than overseas quite frankly, it’s actually in our interest to have them here in Australia where they can be monitored or they can be placed in custody and under surveillance,' he said. 'These are the days where you can have an individual overseas basically issuing instructions and orders to people over here, sending them information on how to carry out acts of extremism, and it is better for us to have them here where they are either in a facility or monitored.'  Currently fighters over the age of 14 can be blocked from returning to Australia for up to two years if they pose a threat to the community.  But a senior intelligence operator confirmed to the publication the intelligence sector was in support of bringing jihadists and their families home immediately.  'The feeling of our intelligence agencies both here and abroad is that we actually want these people back, better to have them back from war zones and put them in a controlled environment,' the intelligence source said. A total of 230 Australians travelled to Syria or Iraq during ISIS's reign of terror and 95 of them were reportedly killed during combat actions.  Authorities are currently in direct communication with five of those Australians who joined ISIS overseas and are seeking a path home.  The recommendation was passed onto the government after the intelligence sector undertook a review of potential jihadist returnees.  The revelation came just days after it was reported that orphaned children of an Islamic State fighter who are being held in a Syrian refugee camp could soon be returned to Australia. The three children, aged between six and 12, were taken from Australia to Syria when their parents Yasin Rizvic and Fauzia Khamal Bacha joined the terrorist group in 2014. Rizvic, from Bosnia, had been a senior figure at the Al-Furqan Islamic centre in Melbourne – which was often linked to radical extremism before its closure in 2015. Oliver Bridgeman, 21 Mahir Absar Alam, 26,  Ahmed Merhi, 27 Janai Safar, 24 Zehra Duman, 24,  Khaled Sharrouf's children: Zaynab, 17, Hoda, 16, and Humzeh, eight He died while fighting for the terrorist group in 2016. Bacha later died also, yet circumstances around her death are not known. The young children have been stranded in the Kurdish-controlled al-Hawl refugee camp in western Syria since their parents were killed, ABC reported. The Australian has reported three children, believed to be of Bosnian background, were likely to be the first children from the war to be returned home.  It's unclear whether the orphans mentioned are Rizvic's children.   Australian authorities have reportedly been working to move the children to Lebanon or Iraq, where they would meet with an Australian consular official before being flown to Melbourne. Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton said the children shouldn’t be made to suffer but stood firm on the government stance that no Australian official would be put in harm’s way to extradite them from a conflict zone. 'When it comes to children, we will deal with each and every case on its merits, but in every single case we will be putting the security of Australians at the top of the list.' The children have been pleading for help to return to Australia, however, Prime Minister Scott Morrison has said that national security was his number one priority. Zaynab, 17, Hoda, 16, and Humzeh, 8, were taken to Syria by their parents, who have since died. Zaynab now has two toddler daughters and is heavily pregnant with a third child.   
