food reviews
{ By Sarah Sotoodeh For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:24, 27 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7075103/Kylie-Jenner-shares-reactions-sold-133-line.html }
She launched Kylie Skin on May 22, after announcing the new company on May 10. And on Monday morning, Kylie Jenner shared gushing reviews from fans on her Instagram stories. One fan called the '$133' line a 'whole different level of skincare.' The entire line, which is six different products, can be purchased on her website for $125 plus tax. It is currently sold out on her Kylie Skin website.  One fan wrote: 'So I paid, $133 total for @kylieskin new products.. and I wanna talk to some of you guys about that #KylieSkin.' Continuing: 'Long story short @kylieskin is on a whole different level of skin care. I mean this s**t is next level.' Adding: 'I'm honestly so impressed that I really believe I'll never use anything else. So that $133 was completely worth it to feel beautiful!'  Another called her walnut scrub 'amazing' and 'most gentle,' adding that all her products are 'hydrating.' One person said it's worth the $125 and that their skin 'feels amazing' while another said their skin is 'glowing.' The $125 set includes the foaming face wash, walnut face scrub, vanilla milk toner, vitamin C serum, face moisturizer and eye cream; the complete Kylie Skin set is valued at $140. The Kylie Cosmetics founder revealed she is expanding her billion dollar empire with a skincare line via Instagram on May 10.   The entrepreneur announced the news on Instagram with a sultry makeup free photo of herself with glowing skin, revealing the launch date for Kylie Skin was May 22. On Monday, Kylie revealed they are restocking on June 5. In March of this year, Kylie became the youngest self-made billionaire of all time - snatching the title from Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg.  She was given the title by Forbes in March; at age 21, Kylie is both the youngest self-made billionaire and the youngest billionaire on Forbes' 'young billionaires' list. Kylie's makeup brand Kylie Cosmetics earned her a personal net worth of $1 billion. Mark was 23 when he made his first billion - which occurred 11 years ago in 2008; he is the eight richest person in the world with a net worth of $63.3 billion. Kylie owns a 100 per cent stake in Kylie Cosmetics, and also had a separate income from endorsement deals and from the Keeping Up With The Kardashians reality show. Meanwhile, Kylie has another project to promote, but this one is not quite ready to be unveiled: KKW Fragrance X Kylie perfume launch with her sister Kim Kardashian.     
