{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  17:54, 29 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-7938917/The-BEST-takeaways-Britain-revealed.html }
A Wiltshire-based Mexican restaurant has been named the best takeaway in the UK at the British Takeaway Awards. Despite a somewhat unprepossessing exterior, Nacho Cheese, in Trowbridge, impressed judges with its menu of nachos, fajitas and quesadillas, with the panel particularly impressed by their commitment to gluten-free and vegan menus. The awards, which is now in its fifth year, recognise the best takeaways in each UK region, alongside crowning the Best Takeaway Chef, Best Takeaway Delivery Driver and the Game Changer delivery restaurant - an award which recognises a business that is pushing the boundaries and driving innovation in the industry.   British Takeaway Award winners are selected by a judging panel, including judges including Ainsley Harriot and Dragons' Den star Sarah Willingham following a rigorous process comprising a public vote, written submission, and mystery shopping. Below, Femail reveals the list of regional winners and four national winners.   NATIONAL WINNERS Best Takeaway in Britain: Nacho Cheese, Trowbridge, Wiltshire Game Changer: Chris' Fish N Chips, Leicester Best Takeaway Chef: Osamu Mizuno, Sugoi JPN, London Best Takeaway Delivery Driver: Mohammed Miah, The Island Restaurant, West Midlands REGIONAL WINNERS Best Takeaway in Central London: Chilli Tuk Tuk, Woodhouse Rd, Finchley Best Takeaway in Greater London: The Brothers Fish Bar, Gravesend Best Takeaway in the South East: S&S Kitchen, Aylesbury Best Takeaway in the South West: Nacho Cheese, Trowbridge Best Takeaway in the East Midlands: Rikshaw, Nottingham Best Takeaway in the West Midlands: Buena Comida, Brierley Hill Best Takeaway in the North West: Brothers Burgers, Saint Helens Best Takeaway in the North East: Casa Rosa, Newcastle Best Takeaway in Yorkshire: Bear Kirchen, Wakefield Best Takeaway in Scotland: Cheeky Moo's, Rutherglen, Glasgow Best Takeaway in Wales: Wiwo, Cathays, Cardiff Best Takeaway in Northern Ireland: Nonna Wood Fired Pizzas, Londonderry    Best Takeaway in Britain: Nacho Cheese, Trowbridge, Wiltshire Also named Best Takeaway in the South West Unassuming from the outside, family-run Nacho Cheese in Trowbridge impressed a panel of judges including Ainsley Harriot and Dragons' Den star Sarah Willingham with their menu of fajitas, quesadillas and burritos. Judges praised its great food, high mystery shopper score and measures taken to cater to customers' ever-evolving dietary needs. Owner Lorraine Priestly has Coeliac disease and has led the way in offering gluten-free menu items. She has also involved in projects working with Coeliac UK to help ensure other restaurants can improve their gluten-free offering. The menu offers vegan, vegetarian and dairy-free dishes, and the packaging used is compostable and biodegradable.  Lorraine said: 'We are so excited to have won Best Takeaway in Britain!  'It is so important to us to offer exceptional service and food, as well as catering to customers' ever-evolving dietary needs, and so to have been recognised for this is amazing!  'We would like to say a huge thank you to our staff for their hard work, as well as our loyal customers, as we couldn't have got here without them.  'We are so pleased and can't wait to continue to have a positive impact on the takeaway industry.' GAMECHANGER AWARD: Chris' Fish N Chips in Leicester Leicester-based Chris' Fish N Chips scooped the Game Changer award for their commitment to sustainability. The takeaway uses alternatives to palm oil, zero plastic packaging and is carrying out more deliveries on bicycle to save on emissions. Having identified a growing demand for healthier options, Chris' Fish N Chips now list calories for each menu item and have signposted dishes that are under 400 calories and under 600 calories, to encourage more informed healthier choices. Stratis Kyriacou, owner of Chris' Fish and Chip Shop said: 'We can't believe we've won the Game Changer award, this is a first for us! 'We're passionate about doing all we can for the environment and our local community. It means so much to have our hard work recognised, every single member of the team feels so proud.' BRITAIN'S BEST TAKEAWAY CHEF: Osamu Mizuno of Sugoi JPN, Bethnal Green, east London Other winners on the night included London-based Japanese-Latin fusion delivery restaurant, Sugoi JPN. Head Chef, Osamu Mizuno was awarded Best Takeaway Chef in Britain after wowing the judges in a MasterChef style cook-off in which he served 'nori tacos'. The tacos are a crispy seaweed shells covered in light airy tempura batter filled with fusion flavours such as tuna and salmon sashimi, pico de gallo (tomatoes, coriander, red onion, lemon juice), sushi rice, sesame seeds, and kimchee sauce. Best Takeaway in London: Chilli Tuk Tuk, Woodhouse Rd, Finchley The family-run Chilli Tuk Tuk is a fresh take on Indian food serving 'build you own' curries and lighter sides and snacks. Owners, married couple Deepak and Amisha say it was started when they were 'fed up of takeaways that all tasted the same and lacked real quality'. Due to their frustration, in 2014 they travelled to India and met with some top class chefs to help them create their menu.  They say their philosophy is to 'serve delicious food, maintain consistency of those delicious flavours and get our food to customers in the shortest time possible'   Best Takeaway in Greater London: The Brothers Fish Bar, Gravesend Offering a traditional British Fish n Chips in the Thames-side town in the heart of Kent, the Brothers has a menu including cod, haddock and plaice. Loved by locals, the takeaway has hundreds of five-star reviews across the internet describing it as 'amazing'  and 'By far the best cod and chips in town'. One recent TripAdvisor reviewer wrote: 'What a treat to find a chipper that has whitebait on the menu, so of course I had it.  'Very nice indeed, chips were great.  'Very generous portion and all for less than a fiver. Very friendly chatty guy serving.   Best Takeaway in the South East: S&S Kitchen, Aylesbury S&S Kitchen is an authentic Jamaican takeaway in the Buckinghamshire town of Ayslesbury. The menu includes Ackee & Salt Fish, Boneless Curry Goat, and Jerk Chicken as well as vegetarian options such as chickpea and sweet potato curry. On winning their award, they said: 'We are very proud to have won the Best British takeaway in South East England. It shows how good food and hard work is acknowledged'. Best Takeaway in the East Midlands: Rikshaw, Nottingham Rikshaw in Nottingham specialises in Indian takeaway, but is also able to sit 16 guests within their rustic small cafe. Their menu includes an array on Indian street food, including Crispy Pakora, Chilli Chicken Lollypops, and Rikshaw Masala Fish.   They also have a separate vegan menu, with dozens of options for those of specialist diets.  One local recently said on TripAdvisor: 'All the curries are absolutely heavenly and we stopped even having the conversation which take-away shall we go for. If we have a take away delivered it's always Rikshaw.  'Fresh, light, healthy unlike some greasy curries we've had before. It's tremendous value for money and you can adjust how spicy you want your curry to be. Sherwood is very lucky to have them on our high street.  Best Takeaway in the West Midlands: Buena Comida, Brierley Hill, Dudley Buena Comida offers a Mexican style menu and was opened by Karl and Sally Taylor in January 2019 after more than 20 years experience in some of the UK's most famous restaurants, including Jamie Oliver's Kitchen.  The owners say they stand out by taking pride in the quality and freshness of their food.  'Its all homemade with passion, knowledge, skill and quality ingredients' their website reads.  Their menu includes burritos, enchiladas, chimichangas and quesadillas.  Speaking to the Birmingham Mail about their win, owner Karl said: 'Buena Comida is our baby, we absolutely love our team and our customers. It's just the best feeling to be awarded The Best Takeaway in the West Midlands after all our hard work and dedication.  We are family and we are so grateful.'   Best Takeaway in the North West: Brothers Burgers, Saint Helens Brothers Burgers was started by brothers Darren and Steven Leigh with a dream and a vision to 'do burgers right'. Andrew Kenny, UK Managing Director of Just Eat, said: 'We are so proud to support the British Takeaway Awards for the fifth year. 'It's a fantastic opportunity to recognise the dedication and hard work that goes on behind the scenes, and more importantly, celebrate the heroes of our high streets who bring the nation the food they love. 'From the independent small business owners who inspire their teams to strive for better, chefs who continually innovate their menus, and delivery drivers who go the extra mile to provide excellent customer service - the food delivery industry is full of unsung heroes. It's only right that they have their moment in the spotlight.' The joint serves 'simple, no fuss burgers' made from fresh ingredients and they came up with the idea when they were holidaying in Cyprus. Speaking to the St Helen Star,  Darren, 40 and Steven 38, said: 'We honestly are so happy with this award, we opened less than two years ago and beat more than 65 shortlisted venues out of the more than 30,000 Just Eat entries to get this award. 'It still hasn't sunk in, but this award is definitely down to us launching in our community, our staff and our customers who support us along the way. 'We try to give back to our community when we can. We just donated £250 to Teardrops, but it's really nice to get this recognition, because yes we are a takeaway, but we work hard and are proud that someone out there, we still don't know who, put us up for this.' Best Takeaway in the North East: Casa Rosa, Newcastle Serving simple pizzas and burgers, Casa Rosa in Newcastle serves pizza 'authentic home made food' and a wide range of vegan options including Key Lime Pie and 'cheesy' garlic bread. Their menu includes brie and bacon pizza, spicy cheesy nachos, as well as rainbow cakes. Speaking about their win on their Facebook page, they said: 'What a night! We had the BEST time last night with absolutely amazing company - we've enjoyed ourselves, met new people from lots of other great takeaways… and, of course, came home with a WIN!  'We didn't sleep too much so we're a little tired, but we're running on excitement to get back into work and see you all - our brilliant customers, who always keep us going and make it ALL worthwhile! We just want to once again thank all of our staff for their continued hard work and customers for their votes and continued support! So THANK YOU!   Best Takeaway in Yorkshire: Bear Kitchen, Wakefield The Bear Kitchen in Wakefield describes itself as 'fast food with attitude' and serves overloaded chips, dirty burgers and salads.   Having opened only last year, judges noted their success and progress in just 12 months. They said: 'Bear Kitchen has stepped up their game this year, they use local suppliers and work hard to source quality, fairtrade, ethical ingredients for their innovative menu. 'Bear Kitchen also aids the development of young chefs in the industry and has an apprentice scheme for staff.'  Best Takeaway in Scotland: Cheeky Moo's, Rutherglen, Glasgow Cheeky Moo's ice cream parlour was the only dessert house on the list placing as the takeaway in Scotland beating out curry houses, Mexican diners, burger bars and pizzerias.   The ice-cream parlour, which opened in 2017,  sells waffles, milkshakes and cake amid its sprawling menu.  Writing on Facebook last night, they said:  'We are absolutely proud as punch to announce...WE WON!!! Cheeky Moo's are officially Scotland's number 1 takeaway.  Best Takeaway in Wales: Wiwo, Cathays, Cardiff Cardiff noodle bar Wiwos serves fresh and fast Chinese food where diners can build their own meal by choosing their own bases, sauces as well as extras. Catering for the modern palette, there are vegan and gluten-free options too. The diner also won in 2015, 2016 and  2017.  Writing on their Facebook page, they said: 'The Best Takeaway in Wales! Thank you to all our amazing customers. Best Takeaway in Northern Ireland : Nonna Wood Fired Pizzas, Londonderry Nonnas Wood Fired Pizzas is a family owned restaurants in the historic Derry-Londonderry. The restaurant was founded by two brothers and who wanted to create real Italian pizza having spent years exploring small towns in Italy but returned to Northern Ireland without being able to find any authentic Italian food.     Writing on Facebook last night, they said: 'We won best takeaway in Northern Ireland! A huge thank you to all our hard working staff and our wonderful customers we really appreciate all your support it's going to be a good night'  
