food reviews
{ By Danny Gallagher For Mailonline   Published:  23:28, 27 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7936125/Ferdinand-Keown-heap-praise-Martinelli-make-Raheem-Sterling-comparison.html }
Gabriel Martinelli's stand-out performance for Arsenal has earned rave reviews from both Martin Keown and Rio Ferdinand, who have tipped the youngster to develop at the same frightening rate as Raheem Sterling. Ferdinand was left with his mouth agape as the Brazilian teenager played a seemingly effortless aerial through-ball over the top of the Bournemouth defence, using the outside of his boot to artfully carve across the ball. Martinelli was a constant threat to the Cherries' back-line, linking beautifully with Bukayo Saka throughout the tie as Arsenal booked their place in the fifth round of the competition, where they will again travel to the south coast to this time face Portsmouth. Scroll down for video  After analysing the footage of Martinelli's contributions, Ferdinand couldn't help but be drawn to the moment the 18-year-old showed sheer confidence to execute the difficult lofted pass. 'That nonchalance is too much,' Ferdinand began with a laugh during his post-match punditry duties with BT Sport. 'He's playing with ridiculous confidence at the moment.  'That comes from the manager, it comes from opportunity and from taking it. He's quicker than I actually first thought when I first saw him.  'His decision making – that's the thing that sets him apart, he very rarely gives the ball away and he's somebody who wants to bring other people into it but you can see the end product is about getting a goal and getting a shot off.' Arsenal legend Keown was equally as enthusiastic, evidently excited to see that his former club have unearthed a gem of a footballer. Keown went on to praise Martinelli's all round play, from his vision to movement and link-up. 'I just feel that this player is so mature for someone so young,' Keown added to the discussion. 'He's 18 years of age and we mustn't forget that. If you look at his vision. Everything he's linking really well, taking on board this new message of give-and-go. He's always on the move, he's a nightmare to pick up and Bournemouth just couldn't get near him.' Keown then delved further into the effect new manager Mikel Arteta is having on the team since his arrival from Manchester City, where he served as deputy to Pep Guardiola. Keown believes Arteta will flourish working with the younger stars, and likened Martinelli's ongoing development to that of Sterling at the Etihad.  'The last player Arteta will have worked with in that position would have been Sterling and you saw the improvement of Sterling, so it's going to be a joy to watch this fella improve because of his starting position,' Keown added.  'This is where he is now rather than the bottom rung, 18-years of age.' Following the final whistle Arteta spoke glowingly of his team's offering, but made clear he still seeks further improvement 'We scored two fantastic goals, but after that we became a little bit sloppy and our rhythm went down, I didn't like that very much,' said Arteta. 'In the second half they put more crosses in and we suffered a little bit. I would like us to be more flexible in certain things we can do, at the moment with injuries this is not easy.' When asked if he was looking to bring in a defender this month, Arteta said: 'We are in the market, the club is trying to facilitate us. When we have something to say we will confirm with you.' On the challenge posed by Portsmouth in the next round, Arteta added: 'It will be tough again, but let's enjoy the win today.' 
