food reviews
{ By Grace Gausden For This Is Money    Published:  07:53, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/bills/article-7911761/Five-ways-shoppers-best-price-item-want.html }
Shoppers face paying up to £365 for the same product, simply because they are not comparing prices across all retailers, new research has revealed. Televisions are the item that varied the most in price via retailer with a top price difference of £364.77, according to price comparison website, Idealo. The Samsung Q90R 75 inch television was the device with the biggest price discrepancy - at one retailer, it was £1,934 while at another it was £2,299, when the data was conducted.    Tablets were found to have the second biggest price discrepancies with some varying by as much as £166. This means that those looking for items such as the latest Apple Macbook or the Microsoft Surface Book need to make sure to shop around before settling on the first one they see. Idealo studied pricing data across consumer, pinpoints the cost disparity between retailers selling goods ranging from laptops and headphones to washing machines and lawnmowers. It used comprehensive price comparison data across retailers selling products in 40 different categories in December 2019 to compile the results. It found that new parents should also be wary when splashing out on a pram or pushchair with prices varying by as much as £147 on average. For example, the Cosatto Wow Fox Tale travel system can be purchased for between £549 and £841 – representing a massive £292 price gulf across listed retail prices. Smartphones are another item that are priced very differently, depending on where you shop, with prices varying by up to £111. Lawnmowers also differed greatly in price with costs sometimes varying by £124.  For example, the Bosch Rotak 43 LI Electric Lawn Mower can be bought for between £350 to £395, meaning some are paying an extra £45 for the same product. Similarly, those looking to buy a new vacuum cleaner risk overpaying by around £50 if they don't compare prices. The Dyson V8 Animal, for example, was listed as £318.40 at its cheapest price and the most expensive was £349 - a price difference of £30.  Conversely, the shopping product categories which see the lowest price fluctuation in the study are microwaves. Popular brands such as Panasonic and Russell Hobbs only varied in price by £6.05 on average across online retailers. This was followed by the much-loved Barbie range in the children's toy category which only represented a price disparity of £6.23. The third product category that varied in price the least are baby monitors, although many parents would see a £10.75 average retail saving by comparing prices. Idealo's Katy Phillips said: 'Unless it's an obvious sale period such as Black Friday, sadly few shoppers think about price comparing and are being hit hard in the pocket as a result. 'Our research reveals that everyday essentials through to big-ticket items can vary wildly in price and yet it takes seconds for shoppers to track which retailer is selling the same product as others at the lowest price.' 1. Price comparison sites: Customers looking to buy a high ticket item, or even one that is less expensive, are encouraged to use price comparison websites to see if they could get the same product for cheaper elsewhere.  There are a range of these sites to choose from - as well as Idealo, there is Pricesearcher, Kelkoo and Price Runner.   2. Set a price alert: It is also advisable to set price alerts on specific items that you are interested in as this will then tell you when it has reduced in cost.  This is a good option if you're not in a hurry to purchase something, for example, if you are looking for a new TV, sofa or iPad, but don't need it right away.   The price alerts will tell you how much something has reduced by and from which date.   3. Stay secure: Make sure when buying an item online that it is from a reputable website.  While seeing a product for a low price is tempting, if it looks too good to be true, it probably is.  One way to check this is to make sure it has the padlock in the top left hand corner with the word 'secure'.  This generally means that the website you're viewing is secure and that traffic to and from the site is encrypted.  Encryption means that no one else but that site can read any credit card details and/or any passwords you enter there. It also worth checking reviews of the site you are looking at online to see what other users have said about it.  Additionally, it is worth pointing out that some websites sell reconditioned items, such as mobile phones and laptops which will appear much cheaper than a new item.  4. Shop with a phone: When shopping on the high street, it is worth looking to see whether you could get the same product online for cheaper.  Amazon is always a good place to start while price comparison sites can also be useful - you can then make a decision whether you should hold off and buy elsewhere, or simply get it there and then. 5. Cashback? Cashback websites have become increasingly popular in the last decade and could get you a substantial return on the money you are already spending.  Quidco and Top Cashback are two of the most well known websites and both offer users up to 15 per cent cash back on money spent online and in high street stores.     
