{ By Ben Wilkinson for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:00, 21 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/pensions/article-7913259/Could-victim-pension-payback-scandal.html }
Tens of thousands of retirees face losing vital income following a surge in pension blunders, a Money Mail investigation can reveal. Sweeping reviews of pension calculations have uncovered tens of thousands of errors that have seen pensioners overpaid, and underpaid, for decades. Now many have been hit with sudden demands for money they had no idea they were not entitled to and trapped in lifestyles they can no longer afford. At the same time, complaints about pension errors have soared. In 2010, the Pension Ombudsman ruled on just nine complaints about mistakes. But last year, it ruled on 165 — a rise of 1,733 per cent. Many errors, some dating back four decades, stem from when those in final salary pension schemes were 'contracted out' of paying full state pension contributions, and allowed to pay reduced National Insurance rates between 1978 and 1997. These pledged to pay a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) in retirement to replace the loss in state pension pay.  But when contracting out was banned in 2016, pensions schemes began to compare data with HM Revenue and Customs and found many mismatches — mainly due to poor record keeping and human error.  Many final salary and state pensions pay packages have now been cut as a result of discrepancies uncovered. The Civil Service Pension Scheme alone, which has one million members, found 10,000 pensions with errors and overpayments of £22 million. Pension schemes are now trying to claw back the overpayments — even if the money has already been spent. Some pensioners have had their income slashed twice — once down to the pay they should have had, and again to recoup overpayments.  Baroness (Ros) Altmann, a former pensions minister, says: 'I have been concerned about pension errors for years, but what is happening now is errors are finally being discovered because of the GMP issue in the new state pension. 'The mistakes were made by administrators, actuaries or HMRC, not by pension members, yet the members are forced to pay for the mistakes they didn't make. This seems really unfair.' One retired primary school administrator, 84, was recently told her annual pension was to be cut by £715 after an error was found in GMP records. The pensioner, who did not want to be named, says: 'It is a huge amount to be reduced by. How confident can I be that the new figure is correct?'  Meanwhile, the NHS Pension Scheme, which has close to one million retirees, made 46,600 overpayments in three years to April 2019, totalling £53 million. The average was more than £1,100. Retired medical secretary Kathleen Burns was hit with a demand for £2,600 after the NHS made a mistake with her pension.  She thought nothing of it when her final pension was valued at around £30 a month more than previous forecasts, but says she was made to feel like a criminal when the NHS Business Services Authority demanded she pay it back. Kathleen, 59, who lives near Wigton in Cumbria, worked at Cumberland Infirmary for 13 years.  She decided to take early retirement at 57 in October 2017 and was told her pension would pay £3,377 a year after she took a £22,516 lump sum. This was slightly more than the £3,003 annual income and £20,020 lump sum a recent pension forecast had estimated. Kathleen, who lives on a farm with her partner of 20 years, Bill Lightfoot, says: 'When a body of people are paid to work out your pension you think they are going to get it right. I didn't question it because they had done the figures. And it was not over the top.' But the NHS wrote to her five months into retirement, to say an error had been made and she had been receiving a pension as if she had retired at 60 not 57, and had contributed more to the scheme. The NHS asked for £2,600 back. This included £2,450 of her lump sum and around £150 for extra monthly payments. Her pension income was also slashed by around £30 a month before she could respond. Kathleen says: 'I am not experienced in pensions. It was an innocent mistake. But it is like I have committed a crime and it is me that made the error. 'There was an insinuation that I should have known something was wrong. It was questioning my integrity, and I am an honest person.' Kathleen, who won't get her state pension until she is 66, complained to the Pensions Ombudsman.  It ruled in her favour and ordered the NHS Business Services Authority to pay her £500 for the 'significant distress and inconvenience' she suffered due to the error. But the ombudsman said she should pay back the money she was overpaid. Kathleen has now agreed to pay back £25 a month. Chris Dawson, head of service for NHS Pensions, says Kathleen's employer had submitted a pension claim for those reaching retirement age. He says the NHS Pension Scheme queried this with the employer, but the application was processed in error and the pension paid. He says: 'As the application was processed as an age retirement an immediate overpayment occurred, which amounted to £2,604.69. NHS Pensions sought recovery for this amount.' More than £30 million of overpayments were put down to 'revisions' — which include errors. It included £18 million of overpayments that occurred when the member died and the pension was paid before family could notify the NHS. A retired teacher complained to the Ombudsman after miscalculations from the Teachers' Pension Scheme led her to quit her job three years before she turned 60.  She was told she would receive £9,646 a year, but after she retired early, she was told she would get just £9,060. She now faces having to go back to work until she can collect her state pension in 2024. The ombudsman only partially upheld her complaint as she had not suffered financially because she was never entitled to the money. But it did order the Teachers' Pension Scheme to pay her £1,000 for the 'serious distress' it caused. Another retiree complained after Aon overestimated the size of his pension with Canada Life — leading him to take on a mortgage, help his daughter buy a house and go on 'several expensive holidays'.  He had been told he would get a pension of £41,700 a year with a maximum lump sum of £215,000. Have you received a demand out of the blue to repay pension money? Write to us at moneymail@dailymail.co.uk or Money Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT But in 2018, he was told he would get £34,000 and a £193,800 lump sum. The ombudsman again only partly upheld his complaint, ordering Aon to pay him £1,000.  A widow who had been receiving her late husband's Civil Service pension also complained to the ombudsman after administrator Capita tried to claw back payments it continued to make after she told them she had remarried. She received more than £12,000 over four years before she was asked to pay it back in just two weeks.  But the Ombudsman ruled she should not have to pay it back after hearing she had reduced her working hours and taken on a new mortgage to be nearer family. Steve Webb, director of policy at Royal London, says: 'It is frustrating for pension scheme members when they have lost out due to poor administration and were unable to resolve the matter with the scheme and so had to go to the Ombudsman. 'It is worrying that more and more people each year make complaints about pension administration, and schemes and administrators need to improve the way they handle these complaints.' The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) has said it will not recover overpaid state pension that is linked to GMP errors.  In the summer, the pensions minister revealed the government had sent out around 360,000 inaccurate state pension forecasts.  Guy Opperman said inaccuracies affected 3 per cent of 12 million forecasts issued by the DWP's 'Check your State Pension' service.' Alan Puckey has been ordered to pay back almost £250,000 by BT after it miscalculated his pension. The sum has been charged against his house, meaning any sale proceeds will be swallowed by repayments. Alan and his wife Christine, 61, hoped to downsize but say they are now 'prisoners' in their own home. The bombshell has plunged them into depression and effectively robbed their family of their inheritance. The couple, whose house in Hinckley, Leicestershire, is on the market for £340,000, have eight children and nine grandchildren through separate marriages. Ex BT manager Alan says the firm's behaviour is 'immoral'. 'I worked for the company for 20 years and now they are treating me appallingly,' he adds. The saga began when Alan received a letter from BT in August 2011, shortly after his retirement, stating he could take a lump sum of £217,430 and an annual pension of £36,613. But in October last year, he received another letter stating he owed a total of £275,306 in overpayments.  BT says the error occurred because the date he left the company was incorrectly recorded as March 1, 1989 — the date he joined — instead of May 31, 2009.  This meant he received inflationary increases of 105 per cent, instead of 1.7 per cent. BT says Alan should have spotted the mistake himself as he was sent a letter with the correct pension when he left the company in 2009.  But the 68-year-old says this 'smacks of hypocrisy' as it took the telecoms giant eight years to realise the error. In a letter of complaint to BT, Christine wrote: 'I have spent the last six days in tears, my husband a usually strong man is a wreck — he is not eating or sleeping well and has been in tears himself.' Following seven weeks of negotiation, BT offered to reduce the repayment to £238,834, allowing for overpaid tax and £2,000 for 'distress' caused. It wrote in a letter to Alan that it 'recognises the error was a scheme error and was not caused by you'. Alan has appealed to the Pensions Ombudsman. A BT spokesman said: 'Ensuring the accuracy of payments to our members is of the utmost importance.  'However, on the rare occasion that we identify errors in pension payments, the Trustee of the Scheme has a legal duty to correct the error in fairness to all other Scheme members. 'We are conscious that correcting an overpayment can have significant implications and are very sorry for the distress caused to Mr Puckey and his family.' Additional reporting: Miles Dilworth   
