{ By Rod Ardehali For Mailonline   Published:  09:29, 21 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7910849/Customers-bombard-three-Jamie-Oliver-restaurants-Gatwick-Airport-negative-reviews.html }
Angry customers have slammed three Jamie Oliver restaurants at Gatwick Airport branding them 'awful' and 'foul' in negative online reviews. The multi-millionaire celebrity chef, 44, who had a miserable 2019 after plummeting profits resulted in the closure of 22 of his restaurants, has received more than 330 'terrible' rating reviews at his diner in the South Terminal alone. The three eateries in Gatwick Airport were saved after hospitality operator SSP bought them up, however despite the shake-up of ownership, recent customers have been far from satisfied. One hungry diner, who visits with her husband up to 10 times a year, blasted the restaurant after claiming to have been served a sloppy fry up. The visitor said the promised Cajun potatoes were just 'awful' boiled potatoes plonked on a plate, and that her toast, halloumi and tomatoes were burnt - and lacked any flavour or seasoning. Another called Paula added: 'We will never use the restaurant again there are so many other options now at Gatwick avoid if you are wishing for a nice breakfast.' One customer ordered a burger but said the 'foul' taste lingered for hours. He wrote: 'I could still feel the foul taste of the burger when I went to bed five hours later.' Detailing the visit last month he said: 'My brothers had such burnt bread that he immediately returned it. 'I am always reluctant in returning stuff, on account of being perceived as a jerk, so I kept my one that was slightly less burnt. 'After biting into that I realized that this was a mistake. A taste equivalent of burned milk hit my taste buds.' He later added to his scathing review: 'I will be thinking about this every time I reach for my Jamie Oliver pan at home. I sincerely hope that he turns this ship around.' Another angry flier said the pre-flight dinner was ruined because of slow service. They added: 'After so many closed we thought this one will be well maintained now but unfortunately not. That's a pity.' Another customer started the New Year with a bite at the diner but claims even Jamie Oliver himself would not eat there. They added: 'Rubbery scrambled eggs, unripe tomatoes, hard potatoes. Wouldn't recommend and wouldn't come again.' Some reviews in the North Terminal at Jamie's Italian were just as bleak. Here there are a combined total of 32 'excellent' or 'good' reviews compared to 98 'terrible' or 'bad' ones. Darren McNeill visited three days ago but he criticised the 'tasteless brioche roll with soggy bacon'. He added: 'You've clearly had enough of restaurants Mr Oliver as this is appalling.' Another customer described it as an 'overpriced Wetherspoons' after spending almost £40 on two woeful breakfasts. TripAdvisor user slapped down a one star rating after being left waiting. They wrote: 'Wow stood there for five minutes to be seated staff walking past. Once seated told some would a long shortly - 15 minutes later I walked out. 'It was not busy…at 3pm… sad until now I had always had good service at Jamie's. If this how staff run these eateries it is letting down the name over the door.' Another customer wrote: 'Terrible expensive breakfast pastries. They were stale so took them back for a refund. 'Shame on you Jamie, this cafe is doing you no favours. The lady on the counter even tried to persuade me yes they were fresh and it was due to the cold weather they were stale. 'This goes against everything to do with Jamie's concept and reputation. Come on guys you can do better.' And the reviews for Jamie's Coffee Lounge, also in the North Terminal, were unflattering. A total of 96 reviewers scored it as 'terrible' or 'good' compared to just 29 who believed it was 'excellent' or 'good'. One customer who needed a caffeine hit said: 'It really comes to something when the coffee served on the plane is better than this terrible place.' However happy customer left a five star rating before adding: 'Judge a coffee shop by its black Americano. It was good coffee. And their small cups can be composted. Nice touch.' A spokesperson for SSP UK, which operates Jamie Oliver's restaurants at Gatwick Airport said: 'We are committed to providing our customers with a great experience when they dine with us, and we would like to apologise to anyone who felt our high standards had not been met during their visit.  'Customer feedback is very important to us, and we have been looking into the detail of each complaint so that we can continue to improve our offer to our customers.'  
