{ By Adrian Kajumba For The Daily Mail   Published:  23:09, 19 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7905827/Raul-Jimenez-Wolves-finally-laugh-VAR-Southampton-victory.html }
A common refrain from its biggest critics this season has been that VAR, quite simply, is a joke. That is pretty much how Wolves are treating it now. So used to being on the wrong end of reviews, Wolves were poking fun this week at training by pretending they now have their own version of VAR for head tennis sessions. Until this VAR-influenced win at Southampton, the new system had caused Wolves nothing but headaches. Following VAR reviews, they have had goals ruled out against Leicester and Southampton, conceded a penalty and then a retake for encroachment against Manchester City, seen the decision to rule out a Liverpool goal overturned, then had one of their own chalked off.  They also had one struck off in their FA Cup third-round replay loss at Manchester United last week. Before their eventful trip to Southampton, the only decision that had gone in Wolves’ favour was Watford’s Christian Kabasele having a yellow card upgraded to a red. At St Mary’s, trailing 2-0 to goals from Jan Bednarek and Shane Long, technology played a part in Wolves’ second-half fightback.  Having had goals ruled out at Liverpool and United, Pedro Neto finally had an effort ratified after an unnecessarily long handball check confirmed he clearly controlled Adama Traore’s cross with his foot and chest. Raul Jimenez then converted a correctly awarded penalty when Wolves were initially awarded a corner. Again, the check took an age when the decision looked straightforward. Wolves’ winner was allowed to stand despite Traore’s handball being pivotal to their breakaway move which Jimenez ended by scoring. To add to the confusion, replays of what VAR Craig Pawson appeared to be reviewing started after the handball incident. ‘I think it’s the first time this season the VAR goes with us,’ was the view of Jimenez.  Captain Conor Coady has been one of Wolves’s most outspoken VAR critics, and he was staying consistent even after it ruled in their favour. ‘I still think it takes a bit too long,’ he said. ‘I’m the first to celebrate a goal, and now you are seeing if the referee is checking.’ 
