food reviews
{ By Kayla Brantley  and Mary Kekato and Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com    Published:  21:53, 17 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7900695/Robert-Downey-Jr-spotted-NYC-wide-grin-critics-bash-new-film-Dolittle.html }
Robert Downey Jr. seems unfazed by the latest dismal reviews of his new film, Dr. Dolittle.  He was seen out in New York City Thursday afternoon in good spirits and laughing as he walks down the street wearing a powder blue suit, DailyMail.com can reveal. He's been acclaimed as Iron Man, but critics have panned his portrayal of Dr. Dolittle, saying 'Dolittle is a crime scene in need of forensic analysis.'  Still, Robert Downey Jr. seems to be taking the negative reviews in stride.   Downey is joined by Antonio Banderas, Michael Sheen, John Cena, Selena Gomez, Rami Malek, Tom Holland and more in the film, which hits theaters on January 17.  Dolittle is being pegged lackluster by reviewers, with many annoyed by both his and the CGI animals' performances.  The film, directed by Stephen Gaghan, has already even been deemed as 'the first worst movie of 2020' ahead of its release.   It was revealed Friday that rewritten scripts and adding more animal scenes to Dolittle delayed its release by nearly nine months. The film opens in theaters on Friday with a $175million budget. But studio executives were unsatisfied with a test screening of the film in fall 2018 and demanded more comedic lines, more computer generated animals and an overall more lighthearted tone, reported The Wall Street Journal. This led to three weeks of reshoots with two new directors and screenwriters to make the film more appealing to family audiences and those overseas, although early reviews have been less than kind.    The Journal notes that with box office revenues falling and international sales making up a larger share of the market, there is a need to connect with a broader audience. Additionally, several studios are trying to create films that can create sequels or even spin-offs, similar to Disney. What's more, January is among one of the worst months for movies, when several studios release their projects that they know will not make a great deal of money commercially. A Universal insider told The Journal that the studio expects Dolittle to make around $25million this weekend - very small compared to the movie's large budget.   It hasn't helped that early reviews for the movie have been lackluster, with critics panning the performance of both Downey Jr and the CGI animals.    Variety called the family film 'sloppy,' dubbing the period-set flick as being 'predictable and obnoxious.' Defending the lack of connection between the audience and the CGI animals in 'Dolittle', Variety stated that the movie would still 'test audiences' patience with overly complicated, noisy scenarios.'   'What should have been an awe-filled adventure quickly curdles into an awful one, thanks to a pedestrian formula and the filmmakers' fixation on fart jokes,' the publication added.  The Associated Press was just as vicious in its critique, slamming the film and comparing it to the other recent epic fail from Universal: Cats. ''Dolittle' is a more harmless and whimsical family entertainment, less likely to provoke nightmares than the digitally furred felines of Tom Hooper´s Andrew Lloyd Webber adaptation,' AP declared. 'But, just the same, the two films together could be the worst setback for animalia since global warming, or at least 'Howard the Duck.''  AP was most disappointed in Downey's performance and claimed his personality 'doesn't come through at all', dubbing him a 'victim of the surrounding mess or a party to it.'     The New York Times declared that it was 'too bad' that the movie could not have been 'ditched' in its entirety, asking for the film to be 'dramatically shortened.' 'Cue the flat jokes, deep ocean dive and awfully long haul. Whales swim by, a dragon grouses, Dolittle's zoo scurries and cracks wise, and so does Downey,' they added. 'No one throws scat or has an accident on the rug, although the live-action Michael Sheen amusingly hogs all his scenes as a Dolittle rival, while Antonio Banderas peacocks through as a pirate king.' The publication added that the film received a PG rating for 'mild peril and royal crisis.'  And a review from The Atlantic called the flick 'one of the worst movies in years.' 
