food reviews
{ By William Cole For Mailonline   Published:  09:11, 17 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7898269/Sheridan-Smith-announces-reprising-role-Cilla-Black-stage.html }
Sheridan Smith has confirmed she will be reprising her role as Cilla Black and bringing the true life story of the late national treasure to the stage. The acclaimed actress, 38, confirmed fan speculation via her Instagram page on Thursday evening after receiving rave reviews for her portrayal of the icon in ITV mini-series Cilla in 2014.   She wrote: 'Ok seeing as most of you guessed it I'll be bringing Cilla to the stage later this year! Can't wait to see u all there I hope!'  The Two Pints of Lager star was recently seen in the company of TV producers and directors Jeff Pope and Bill Kenwright.   Sheridan previously worked with Jeff, 61, in BBC drama series Four Lives - set to air later this year. Sheridan posted a picture of herself dressed in black and sandwiched between the two men earlier this week, captioned with the teaser: 'What's it all about?'  After fans suggested that Cilla The Musical might be in the pipeline, Sheridan, who is heavily pregnant with her first child to fiancé Jamie Horn, decided to share the big news.   Cilla rose to fame as a singer in the 1960s before hosting hit entertainment shows such as Blind Date and Surprise Surprise. She passed away in 2015 at the age of 72. Among those who shared their delight in the news were author Kimberley Chambers, actor Sharon Rooney and reality star Bobby Norris. ITV's Ken Goodwin said: 'I know actors are superstitious so I won't say you'll be fantastic and it will sell out. I'll just think it.' Sheridan's baby is expected this spring and it's thought that she could start bringing together plans for Cilla soon after. Sheridan and fiancé Jamie Horn met via dating app Tinder in February 2018, and went public with their relationship that March. The insurance broker proposed with a £10,000 ring in May 2018 after just three months of dating. The television star confirmed the couple were expecting their first child together in October 2019 via her Twitter and Instagram pages.  
