{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  07:28, 14 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7884525/Selena-Gomez-teases-unreleased-song-called-Boyfriend-promoting-new-album-Rare-NBC-talk-show.html }
Selena Gomez teased an unreleased track called Boyfriend during her appearance on Monday's episode of The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon. The 27-year-old singer was on the show to promote her new album Rare featuring Lose You To Love Me that debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. The tune, widely believed to be about her ex, 25-year-old singer Justin Bieber, has been her biggest hit, and it's garnered rave reviews from the critics. Selena hinted there might be another intriguing title in the offing, as she'd finished several additional tracks but hasn't released them. 'There's a few other songs that I couldn't help but want to exist, so I can't really tell when,' she offered, 'but one of my favorite tracks is called Boyfriend, so I can't wait for people to hear that one.' Jimmy, 45, asked her if she was happy Rare was finally out, after all the time she spent on it. 'It's been four-and-a-half years since I released anything,' Selena observed. 'I am very happy. I think I was holding my breath for four years, and finally I just exhaled, and now it exists.' Selena said she was 'very, very grateful' for the reception her first songs had received, and noted that doing the album had been cathartic. 'I think there came a point in my life where there were so many things being said on my behalf, and I found myself protecting people that didn't really protect me, 'cause I didn't want, you know, to start anything,' she explained. 'But I had a right to say my side of the story, and I felt like that was so liberating, because it almost felt like I had let it go, personally, inside of me once it was out. And that's the greatest gift, I think.' Asked what she wanted people to take away from the record, Selena said, 'I think what was most important for me with this record is to make sure that every single song, whether it was the lyrics or the production, [would] mean something, and to actually hold weight.' She especially liked the song Vulnerable, she shared, noting that she'd sung it with the hope that 'I could just be a voice for people in the same situation I'm in, whether it's something mentally that people struggle with, or relationships, friendships.' 'I wanted to be as honest as I could, and the only thing that I wanted was to make people feel good. And during all the mess that's happening, I think I'm very lucky to be in a position where I can make people feel good,' Selena added. Selena knew the album was going to be called Rare four years ago, she admitted. 'The word is so special and it means a lot,' she emphasized. 'And I think in this time where everyone is so obsessed with feeling that they need to look the same way, or get things done, or whatever it may be… there are some girls who are hurting because they feel like they don't fit in. But this word is eliminating that, because you weren't meant to look like everyone else. You're meant to be who you are, and that's unique, and that's rare.' Lose You To Love Me was produced by Finneas O'Connell, the brother of singer Billie, whose work Selena praised—and Jimmy told her that Billie had been inspired by Selena's work. 'You're an inspiration for the song Bad Guy,' he revealed. 'The theme song to Wizards of Waverly Place was the inspiration to her getting the tune. Isn't that bizarre?' Selena starred on the Disney Channel show Wizards of Waverly Place from 2007 to 2012. Jimmy then played its theme to compare it with Bad Guy, and the beats were strikingly similar.  Selena also joined Jimmy for a game called Can You Feel It? in which they had to figure out mystery objects by touch alone. Jimmy jumped as he pawed raw eggs, and incorrectly guessed that a cow brain was a tongue. Selena accurately guessed at hair in a shower drain, but was flummoxed when she touched a stuffed teddy bear puppet. 'Is it my dog?' she asked, as the puppet tried to 'bite' her hand. 'I don't know what the f***!' She instantly covered her mouth after swearing, saying: 'I'm so sorry! I'm sorry.' The game's last round featured meal worms, about which she said 'Do you smell that? It's like food,' and placed her hand in front of Jimmy's disgusted face. 'I think it's food for like, a duck, or something,' Selena guessed, before Jimmy freaked out. The audience decided that Selena had won the game.    
