food reviews
{ By Laura Topham for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:54, 12 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7879795/Restaurateur-Sally-Clarke-65-reveals-inspiration-baked-goods-company.html }
Sally Clarke, 65, owns Clarke's, a restaurant in West London. This spawned a bakery which supplies John Lewis, Selfridges and Eurostar. She lives in Chelsea and has a 20-year-old son. I started cooking as a young child and was only 14 when I envisioned the restaurant I'd one day open. Eating out with my parents, I couldn't understand how places offered such long menus — it was impossible that all those dishes could be fresh and perfect. I studied hotel and restaurant management at Croydon Technical College and learned a bit of everything — from pastry work to cooking for 500 — then went to Le Cordon Bleu in Paris. I worked for Prue Leith at her catering firm and cookery school, then in restaurants in California for five years. I returned to London age 29 and determined to open my own restaurant offering a single, four-course menu that changed daily to reflect the best in the market.  People told me not to do it or to offer some choice, but I was adamant. I had a little money to invest and the bank lent more, with help from my father. I wanted success or failure on my own shoulders. We opened in December 1984, with no advertising. I hired five staff, opened the doors and hoped for the best. Thankfully, the idea was a hit. We got glowing reviews and business snowballed. The seed for the bakery — now the biggest part of my business — was sown that launch night, as I had forgotten to order bread. I decided the next day we'd bake our own. Customers kept asking to take bread home and we desperately needed more restaurant space, so when, five years later, the building next door came up for sale, I bought it and created a 90-seat restaurant and a shop selling breads, truffles and pastries. Companies such as Neal's Yard and Monmouth Coffee started buying our breads wholesale and, after a couple of moves, we upscaled and invested in huge ovens. Now we supply not only bread but sweet and savoury tarts, pastries and biscuits — we made more than 60,000 mince pies this Christmas. We have 120 wholesale customers including Eurostar, to whom we supply every croissant and pain au chocolat it sells. I now have 120 staff across the business. It's vast, and if I thought about it properly I'd never sleep. I stopped working daily in the kitchen a few years ago, though I'm still in and out of the dining room, writing menus and answering the phone. I love being around food and being part of the art of hospitality.  
