{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  20:51, 12 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7879469/Worker-killed-central-Qld-coal-mine.html }
Labor is under pressure to reveal why it has not yet released the findings of two mine safety reviews following another death on a Queensland site. The 33-year-old worker died on Sunday after reportedly becoming trapped in machinery at a central Queensland coal mine. Emergency crews were called to the Curragh coal mine near Blackwater just before 4.30pm but the worker could not be saved. Police are preparing a report for the coroner as workplace safety officials investigate the cause of his death. It's the eighth mining death in Queensland in the last two years, and the second since November. The LNP on Monday accused the Labor government of failing to release crucial information about the safety of mines across the state. "Last July, Labor announced two separate independent reviews into Queensland's mine safety and these were meant to be finalised at the end of the year, but they're yet to be released," Shadow Mines Minister Dale Last said. "(Mines) Minister (Anthony Lynham) needs to explain why they've been delayed." A spokesperson from Dr Lynham's office told AAP the findings would be tabled when parliament resumes in February. The government announced plans to create an industrial manslaughter offence for the resources sector after the November death of Brad Duxbury, 57, at Carborough Downs, also in central Queensland. The charge would carry a maximum 20-year sentence for company heads and fines of up to $10 million for firms found to have been negligent. The LNP on Monday renewed calls for a parliamentary inquiry to fast-track any legislative changes. "It's absolutely crucial Queensland learns lessons from these tragedies, otherwise more lives are on the line," Mr Last said. Operator Coronado Global resources confirmed the man who died on Sunday was a Thiess mining company employee, and expressed sympathy. Mining operations have been suspended as the state's mines inspectorate investigates the incident. "Our thoughts are with the family of the worker, colleagues, and the local community," a spokesman for the inspectorate said. The mining union, the CFMEU, has also sent safety officers to the Curragh site. "Our hearts go out to family, friends and loved ones," the union's Queensland president Stephen Smyth said in a statement. "This is a terrible start to 2020. The industry must redouble efforts to end the tragic loss of life in our mines." Queensland Resources Council Chief Executive Ian Macfarlane offered condolences to the family of the latest victim. "The industry is working with the Queensland Government and unions to ensure an ongoing safety focus to maximise safety across the sector," he said in a statement. 
