food reviews
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  17:10, 11 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7876519/Greta-Gerwig-husband-Noah-Baumbach-step-sushi-friends-West-Hollywood.html }
She's earned rave reviews for her latest film, Little Women. And Greta Gerwig looked like she was taking time to enjoy her success as she and husband Noah Baumbach, the director of Marriage Story, went for sushi with friends on Thursday. The Frances Ha actress/writer was bundled up in a salt and pepper jacket with her hair tied into a messy half bun for the outing. After dinner the pair were seen saying goodbye to a bearded friend. They exchanged pleasantries before hugging and heading separate ways. Earlier this week, the filmmaker candidly discussed her fears over directing Meryl Streep in the film along with making a candid revelation about motherhood in a new interview with Elle UK.  The Lady Bird director said she was left 'terrified' at the prospect of directing the three-time Oscar winner, 70, but the experience of working with the Hollywood icon who played Aunt March, 'forced her to be better.'  She said: 'Oh, I was terrified as a director, because what am I going to say to her? She's so smart and she knows more about how films are made than anyone.  'There were a couple of lines I wrote to get a character from A to B, inelegantly, and you know when Meryl asks, "Now why do I say that?" you'd better have a f*****g good answer.  'It's intimidating, but it forces you to be better. Unfortunately, it's uncomfortable to get better, because it means you have to look like an idiot in front of her. But she's fabulous.'  Discussing the process behind turning Little Women into a film, she added: 'It made me cry, both while I was writing it and then making it.  'Now I have no feelings left. Little Women feels as personal as anything I'll ever make.  'Everyone who works with me can attest to this – I go into a zone where I don't wash or return calls and I go feral.  'I can go into hyperfocus as well as becoming more scattered. I like things that have a great deal of pressure and a lot of deadlines, because I need it.'     Greta made her solo directorial debut in 2017 with the acclaimed Lady Bird, which she also wrote. Previously, she was best known for her acting work in microbudget indie features like Hannah Takes The Stairs and Baghead. She began an artistic collaboration with director Noah Baumbach in 2010 when she starred opposite Ben Stiller in Greenberg. She also led and co-wrote his features Frances Ha and Mistress America. The two reportedly began dating in 2011, following Noah's 2010 split and divorce from Jennifer Jason Leigh. The two were so secretive about their private life that it wasn't known that Greta was pregnant until the two were seen in New York City in March pushing their son Harold in a stroller. The star also confessed that she would be unable to be a working mother without paid help and the support of her friends and family with childcare.   She said: 'There's no way I could do it without that help [paid help], as well as my mother and my friends. Whatever you were prepared for, none of it is how you think, as far as I can tell. There has to be a certain amount of denial that goes on.'      On co-writing with husband Noah, 50, Greta revealed the pair will write separately before meeting up and trading ideas.   She said: 'Writing with someone is more fun than writing alone, but we're not in the same room.  'We'll talk together a lot at first and we'll try to make each other laugh, but when we write, we write separately and then we trade.  'We'll have an idea for a scene and I'll say, "Well, I'll take a crack at that," see how far I can get and then give it to him and he'll edit it or have ideas. Or vice versa.'  The power couple attended the 2020 Golden Globe Awards on Sunday in Los Angeles.  Greta's Little Women was up for two honors (One for Saoirse Ronan for Best Actress and another for Alexandre Desplat for Best Original Score), but missed out in both categories.   Noah was nominated for Best Screenplay for Marriage Story. The film was also up for the Best Motion Picture - Drama, as well as acting honors for leads Scarlett Johansson, Adam Driver and supporting player Laura Dern - with Dern taking home the award.  The February issue of ELLE UK is on sale from 9 January 2020. 
