food reviews
{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  16:16, 9 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7869237/Couples-holiday-hell-five-star-Jamaican-resort.html }
A couple have slammed TUI for selling a sub-par luxurious hotel claiming guests are 'snorting coke' from tables.  Karl Lewis-Law, 54, spent £7,100 on his visit to 'hell on earth' to Jamaica to celebrate his 10th wedding anniversary with his wife Caroline, 51, for nearly a month. The professional caterers from Canterbury, Kent were shocked by what they witnessed at the resort.  The couple were staying from November 29 to December 28 at the five star platinum TUI rated hotel Grand Palladium Lady Hamilton Resort & Spa in Lucea near Montego Bay, Jamaica.  Mr Lewis Law wrote on TUI's Facebook page sharing pictures on January 7 saying: 'This hotel is no more than a two star rating and certainly Not 5 star Platinum.'  He said there was evidence of faulty electrics, cockroaches and even inedible food.  The images show raw meat given to the customers for one of the meals, broken chairs and roofs appearing to fall apart with live cables exposed on the grass or from above. Speaking Mr Lewis-Law said: 'With regards to our visit to hell on earth. On arrival to the hotel we suffered daily power cuts that could last anything from two minutes to an hour and they would happen daily at least four or five times a day. 'We endured two and three hour queues for food and restaurants again on a daily basis, when you did get to eat there would be no crockery on the tables, no cutlery on the tables, so you couldn't even eat when you got into a restaurant. 'The food in the restaurants was nothing short of disgraceful.  'We are particularly upset about live and exposed electrics hanging from ceilings or lying in soaking wet grass that could easily either seriously injure someone who may either step on it or even worse a child touches one. It would be all over for them.'   A Tui spokesperson told MailOnline: 'We’re sorry to hear of the Lewis-Law party’s experience in Jamaica and understand that this would have been extremely disappointing. 'We’ve been in touch directly with the customers to express our sincere apologies and offer a refund along with a gesture of goodwill which has unfortunately been declined. 'Our hotels are regularly inspected and reviewed to ensure they meet safety, comfort and hygiene standards. 'We take customer feedback extremely seriously and always take action where appropriate.' A spokeswoman for the Grand Palladium Lady Hamilton Resort & Spa said: 'We comply to strict hygiene and safety standards, which are reviewed regularly. We’re taking these allegations seriously and have launched an internal investigation.  'We’re very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs Lewis-Law did not have a good experience at Grand Palladium Lady Hamilton Resort & Spa, which usually receives excellent reviews and customer satisfaction scores.' 
