food reviews
{ By Ian Randall For Mailonline   Published:  11:30, 8 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7864601/Facebook-eBay-step-action-against-fake-review-sales-sites.html }
 Facebook and eBay have pledged to crack down on the sales of fake and misleading reviews on their respective platforms with new detection and removal systems. The initiatives come in the wake of pressure from the UK’s competition watchdog, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). According to the CMA, both tech firms have signed agreements to combat the issue after it found 'troubling evidence' of thriving marketplaces for fake reviews last year. In response, Facebook has already removed 188 such groups and disabled 24 user accounts, while eBay has permanently banned 140 users. The pair have agreed to better identify, investigate and respond to fake and misleading reviews in the future in a bid to increase protection for online shoppers.  Facebook has agreed to more robust detection and removal systems and eBay will be improving its existing filters to better identify and block offending listings. The CMA has emphasised that it is not alleging that Facebook or eBay are intentionally allowing this content to appear on their websites. Scroll down for video 'Fake reviews are really damaging to shoppers and businesses alike,' said CMA chief executive Andrea Coscelli. 'Millions of people base their shopping decisions on reviews,' she added. 'If these are misleading or untrue, then shoppers could end up being misled into buying something that isn’t right for them, leaving businesses who play by the rules missing out.' 'We’re pleased that Facebook and eBay are doing the right thing by committing to tackle this problem and helping to keep their sites free from posts selling fake reviews.' It is estimated that more than three-quarters of UK internet users consider online reviews before choosing which products to buy. This means that billions of pounds of the public's spending is influenced by reviews every year. Fake and misleading reviews not only lead to people making poorly informed choices and buying the wrong products, but they are also illegal under consumer protection law. The CMA’s latest action is part of a wider programme of work tackling the problem, which will include looking into the role of review sites.  The CMA has also found new examples of fake and misleading reviews made available for sale via Instagram, which Facebook has committed to investigate. As an initial measure, Facebook has removed 188 groups selling fake reviews and disabled 24 accounts, while eBay has permanently banned 140 users. Facebook has updated and revised its so-called 'Community Standards and Commerce Policy' to clarify that it prohibits fake and misleading review content across the its service. The Menlo Park, California-based tech firm has also committed to conduct routine manual sweeps for such content, until such a time as the company can implement an automatic detection system on the platform. eBay, meanwhile, has reviewed and updated its existing filters that help to identify and prevent listings for the sale or trade of online reviews. The online auction site has also promised to continue applying sanctions against users who sell fake reviews — including implementing permanent bans from the site. 'We maintain zero-tolerance for fake or misleading reviews and will continue to take action against any seller that breaches our user polices,' an eBay spokeswoman said. 'We welcome today’s CMA report, as well as their acknowledgement of our ongoing enforcement work on this issue.' 'Fraudulent activity is not allowed on Facebook or Instagram, including offering or trading fake reviews,' a spokeswoman for Facebook said. 'While we have invested heavily to prevent this kind of activity across our services, we know there is more work to do and are working with the CMA to address this issue.'  'It's good that Facebook and eBay have taken steps to improve after the regulator intervened,' said Natalie Hitchins, head of home products and services at consumer watchdog Which?. But, she added, 'it is vital they continue to identify and shut down these groups, and put measures in place so that they are completely eradicated.' 'The regulator must now turn its attention to review sites which are losing the battle against fake reviews – with shoppers duped into buying shoddy goods and services which have been artificially boosted by unscrupulous sellers.' 'The CMA needs to investigate how fake reviews are being used to manipulate online shoppers and take the strongest possible action against sites that fail to tackle this problem.' Be wary of brands you don’t know Scrutinise customer reviews thoroughly if you’re looking to buy a brand you don’t recognise. Be suspicious of large numbers If you see hundreds or even thousands of reviews, be suspicious — especially if they are largely positive. Look for repetition If you see the same review titles, repetitive phrases or even the same reviewer name appear more than once on a product, these could be fake.  Watch out for product variations Look out for variations of the same product within a listing, especially if they have an obscure name.   Filter for verified reviews Reviews marked as ‘verified’ are those that Amazon can confirm were left after the item was purchased through its website. Unverified reviews are therefore far easier to fake. Look at the dates If large numbers of reviews were posted in a short period of time, it’s very likely that they are fake. Check seller profiles Be wary of foreign seller locations, strange business names, a lack of contact details and negative reviews. Source: Which?  
