food reviews
{ By Chris Dyer For Mailonline   Published:  20:44, 7 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7862135/Restaurant-boss-calls-critics-COMPETITORS-string-scathing-TripAdvisor-reviews.html }
A restaurant boss has hit back at unhappy customers who left bad reviews online - by replying with his own scathing comments. The award-winning Off The Rails cafe has a four-and-a-half out of five rating on TripAdvisor. But some diners have complained with minor gripes about opening times and the prices. So the restaurant, managed by Philippe Blot and located in the old train station in Yarmouth, Isle of Wight, hit back at those criticising the eatery. One customer called Pauline, of Newport, Isle of Wight, posted: 'Poor value for money. Food was okay but lacked garnish and chips were £4 extra. Soft drinks also dear. 'Probably 20 per cent more expensive than comparable establishments.' 'They have won numerous awards for being dog friendly but see photo of front door. 'No Muddy Boots & No Muddy Paws. Obviously the award judges don't visit the nominated sites.' But Off The Rails responded: 'Ouch! Someone is jealous, sounds more like Pauline is a competitor! 'You obviously spend a lot of time at Wetherspoons? We check our prices regularly and we're still cheaper than most places in Yarmouth. 20 per cent more expensive? 'Doesn't take a genius to appreciate that if your boots are dirty, take them off or clean them a bit before coming into a clean establishment. It's just common courtesy. 'Yes we have won many prizes just because we do what we do and the judges 'have' visited us, so don't get upset! 'We have spent so much time and effort into every dish having it's own theatre. So your opinion of our food lacking garnish is just wrong.' Another called Lloyd, from Nottinghamshire said: 'Very disappointing for what I'd hoped to be a great experience. 'Having spent five hours cycling around the Isle of Wight I was looking forward to a large breakfast in this establishment. 'I had heard good things... Turning up at 11:04, my friend was refused the breakfast menu as we were four minutes too late. 'Not a problem I thought, we could just order from the lunch menu. I was hungry because I've been cycling. 'No they said, they don't serve food till 12, you'll have to wait till then! This is not great customer service.' The manager at Off the Rails replied: 'I am very aware of the time you arrived, and I hate to inform you but it wasn't 11.04, but this is besides the point. 'Breakfast finishes at 11am, which is what my staff told you when you arrived, then offered you mid-morning drinks and cakes, and informed you lunch started at 12, as they do for all guests who arrive between 11am-12noon. 'Nothing negative, just the truth. Perhaps you might need to cycle a little faster in the future.' One diner - called Big Kipper, of London - was slammed for posting a review nearly a year after his visit. He said: 'Cycling here I found this cafe, seemed unusual so thought I would stop for coffe. Some jobs worth said I couldn't sit on edge of platform. For what reason? Absolutely no idea.' The restaurant responded: 'So it has taken you nine months to write a pointless review, bottom line health & safety rules so I can only suggest you cycle on.' Another - called rdk12 - of Bournemouth, Dorset, wrote: 'Very overpriced for what can only be described as a cafe, fine dining prices but not fine dining. 'Good aspect ideal for walkers, nice staff however very slow kitchen.' But Off The Rails hit back in usual fashion with: 'Prices are clearly shown online and on our menu so your point has not been taken. 'Clearly you are a lost soul as we are cheaper than the pubs in Yarmouth, the only difference is everything we do is cooked freshly on our premises to order. 'If I did not know any better I would say you are the same person that has written the 2 vindictive reviews below which is completely outrageous... but karma will prevail.' Diane Holdsworth, of Trentham, Staffs - posted a review on Facebook. She said: 'Arrived at 8.56 am on Saturday morning looking forward to a lovely coffee and breakfast after walking my dog. 'Stood at the door. staff inside ignored me playing on their phones. when I knocked on the door told to wait for four minutes. 'Obviously I went elsewhere...so much for their signs of most friendly place to eat and drink. had heard such good things...now I will never know... But the eatery replied: 'We open from 9am to 4pm- let's be honest you actually came at 8.30am. 'Staff are allowed to use mobiles before starting their shifts.' Off The Rails won Top Dog-Friendly Place to Eat and Drink at the Woof Awards last year and several Good Food Guide gongs since opening in 2014. The restaurant has been approached for comment. 
