food reviews
{ By Marc Jackson for MailOnline   Published:  12:29, 7 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7848479/Post-party-season-skin-glow-Starpowa.html }
Christmas is a time of celebration; family and friends coming together to see off the year in style. But, let's face it, it's also a time of sheer excess; booze for breakfast? Why not! A pile of roast potatoes? Load me up! Scoff a box of chocolates sitting on the sofa? It's Christmas! The endless round of parties and socialising can leave us running on empty - and our skin is the first thing to show it. From dry, dehydrated cheeks to breakouts from over-indulging (combined with cold weather and central heating), the party season can leave us looking a state. So, as your resolutions kick in, make sure being kinder to your skin is one of them. And as it's what you've put in your body that's taken its toll, make sure you help to revive your biggest organ by adding back what it needs to stay healthy; vitamins and minerals. Starpowa* is a first-of-its-kind skin, hair and nails vitamin and nutrient-packed gummy supplement - and it's taken the health market by storm. Vegan-friendly, filled with clinically-proven ingredients and with the added bonus of tasting amazing, Starpowa, a 4.5 star bestseller in Holland & Barrett, can help you face 2020 with your head held high. Here, we've spoken to three women who have completely transformed their complexions with these gummies... and reveal how they can help you feel happy in your skin this year...  'Within three weeks my skin was glowing - I can't believe it' Rachel, 23, mum of two and blogger from Leyland 'My skin started to change around 15 and I've struggled to keep my complexion clear even since, no matter what type of products I have used. I do get a lot of spots under the skin - which are very hard to get rid of because they never really form.  'Things only got worse after having both my daughters; I wouldn't even leave the house without wearing make-up because I was so self-conscious.  'Christmas can be full of partying and stressful - and stress is the worst thing for my skin; it's a vicious cycle as the more spots I get the more stressed I'd become! My skincare routine is good, I make sure I cleanse, tone and moisturise and never sleep in my make-up - but it doesn't seem to make a difference. 'I read somewhere that Starpowa had helped someone's skin clear up so I thought I'd give it a go. I started taking the recommended two a day (they taste unreal!) and first began to notice changes in my skin around week two; less redness, a reduction in breakouts and less oily. 'But it was around week three that I really saw how much my skin had improved - I'd never had such a glow before! I couldn't believe it I was so skeptical at first but after taking these myself and seeing my own results I couldn't rate them any higher.  'Nothing in my diet, lifestyle or skincare has changed; taking these gummies is the only change I have made. They've also made my hair thicker and its grown even quicker than usual. 'I wouldn't ever recommend something I didn't believe in or didn't work, but these gummies are magical and I'm so glad I started taking them - they are a definite 10/10 from me and perfect for getting your skin looking great post-party season.' If your skin looks and feels partied out, the essential vitamins, key minerals, organic compounds and amino acids in Starpowa, alongside a healthy diet, can help provide the nutrients we need on the inside - making it much easier to look great on the outside. And getting your daily dose couldn't be easier - you simply need to add two gummies to your morning routine.  But what are the amazing natural ingredients that give Starpowa its power? Click HERE to find out the magic formula that's helping women secure their skin health - and pick up TWO month's supply in the Holland & Barrett Penny Sale... 'My confidence was rock bottom... but within two months my skin looked amazing!'  Lucy, 17, a student from Lancashire 'I have suffered with problem skin since the age of 13 and my confidence levels hit rock bottom for years. I wouldn’t leave the house, I’d sit in the house with a face full of make-up so nobody would see my real skin and I was bullied severely. My skin caused me to be called names such as ‘dot to dot’ and ‘pepperoni pizza face’. My confidence was rock bottom. 'Doctors told me it was something I would grow out of, however this didn't seem to be the case. I was put on medication, which cleared my skin, but within three months of coming of it the spots had returned and my confidence had completely disappeared. 'I was told about Starpowa working for other people who suffered from problem skin - and the reviews online were fantastic. I thought to myself, "why not give it a go as nothing else seems to work!"  'I saw a difference in my skin in the first 21 days! My skin wasn’t as red and the spots weren’t as sore on the touch. By the end of my first 30 days the majority had reduced in size and the redness has completely disappeared. I started my second month of the 30 day supply and found my skin started to look amazing!  'In fact, it's so good that haven’t wore makeup to cover my imperfections in over three months! 'I have also noticed it felt so much smoother, shinier and had grown a lot, they helped me when I bleached my hair,my hair had grown back from the snapping of the bleach! They are definitely worth the money!' 'I've tried everything - serums and masks - but nothing has made my skin look like this for years'  Suzy, 45, from Middlesbrough 'My skin gets so much worse around Christmas and since my forties I've found it becomes very dry in the winter months.'  'The cold weather dries out my complexion really bad and I have tried all sorts of serums and face masks in a bid to tackle it.  'The worst thing is you can't even cover it up because putting make-up on dry skin just makes it look patchy! 'I initially started using Starpowa gummies because I had my long hair cut into a bob - and instantly regretted it!  'So, I went into Holland & Barrett and saw them on the shelf and thought they were worth a shot. 'With a month my skin was so much better - the dryness was gone and it felt smooth and had a youthful glow. 'It also worked wonders on my hair, it grew ridiculously FAST! It feels healthier and it’s in such good condition. I noticed a different in three weeks it had grown an inch! 'While this is great for my age group, my daughter also loves them and is seeing similarly fantastic results with her hair and skin.' 'Motherhood aged my skin... I now repeat buy this supplement as I see an improvement every single month' Caroline, 40, freelancer from Essex 'I used to get breakouts due to hormones but it was motherhood that actually appeared to age my skin. I also suffer with anxiety and get stressed easily, which also normally negatively affects my skin. 'I tried everything to try and change it; less stress, cutting out sugary food, changing my diet, tonnes of different skincare regimes, drinking more water. 'But it wasn't until I started using Starpowa that I really started to turn back the clock. Every month I definitely saw an improvement. So much so, that I just repeat buy it.  'My family have commented on my skin and my hairdresser mentions the strength and thickness of my hair every time I go for my trim.  'I have suffered with alopecia in the past. But now now the ends aren’t as broken, it’s thicker and I can start to grow it longer now. 'I also don’t need to have gels on my nails anymore - they just need a coat of clear polish and I'm good to go. 'It's funny because everyone asks me what I've changed or had done - so now my mother-in-law, the mums at school and even my hairdresser are all on Starpowa!' Do you want to look and feel amazing in your own skin in 2020? Click HERE to get your 30-day supply of Starpowa today - and get another for just a penny at Holland&Barrett... 
