food reviews
{ By Associated Press   Published:  09:21, 5 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7853437/7-Hong-Kong-patients-treated-mystery-disease.html }
BEIJING (AP) - The mysterious respiratory illness that has infected dozens of people in a central Chinese city is not SARS, local authorities said Sunday. The 2002-2003 SARS epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere. Fears of a SARS recurrence arose this month after a slate of patients were hospitalized with an unexplained viral pneumonia in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province. As of Sunday, 59 people were diagnosed with the condition and have been isolated while they receive treatment, according to the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission. Seven were in critical condition, while the rest were stable. The commission said in a statement that initial investigations have ruled out SARS - severe acute respiratory syndrome - as well as Middle East respiratory syndrome, influenza, bird flu and adenovirus. The commission previously said the condition's most common symptom was fever, with shortness of breath and lung infections appearing in a "small number" of cases. There were no clear indications of human-to-human transmission. Several patients were working at the South China Seafood City food market in sprawling Wuhan's suburbs. The commission said the market would be suspended and investigated. Health surveillance officer use device to check temperature of passengers before the immigration counters at International airport in Hong Kong, Saturday, Jan. 4, 2020. Hong Kong authorities activated a newly created "serious response" level Saturday as fears spread about a mysterious infectious disease that may have been brought back by visitors to a mainland Chinese city. (AP Photo/Andy Wong) Hong Kong's Hospital Authority said Sunday that a total of 15 patients in Hong Kong were being treated for symptoms including fever and respiratory infection after recent visits to Wuhan. Hospitals and doctors have been directed to report cases of fever in anyone who has traveled to Wuhan in the past 14 days, Hong Kong's health chief, Sophia Chan, said Sunday. The hospital authority said it has activated a "serious response" level to curb spread of the infection. Chan warned Hong Kong residents against visiting wet markets and eating wild game in mainland China. The World Health Organization said it was closely monitoring the situation and maintaining contact with Chinese authorities. No travel or trade restrictions are necessary at this time, the WHO said. In this Friday, Jan. 3, 2020, photo released by Hong Kong Government Information Service, Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam, second from right, accompanied by Secretary for Food and Health, Prof. Sophia Chan, right, reviews the health surveillance measures by officers of the Port Health Division at West Kowloon Station in Hong Kong. Hong Kong authorities activated a newly created "serious response" level Saturday, Jan. 4, 2020, as fears spread about a mysterious infectious disease that may have been brought back by visitors to a mainland Chinese city. Lam urged any travelers who develop respiratory symptoms to wear surgical masks, seek medical attention and let doctors know where they have been. (Hong Kong Government Information Service via AP) A health surveillance officer uses a device to check temperature of passengers near the immigration counters at the Hong Kong International airport, Saturday, Jan. 4, 2020. Hong Kong authorities activated a newly created "serious response" level Saturday as fears spread about a mysterious infectious disease that may have been brought back by visitors to a mainland Chinese city. (AP Photo/Andy Wong) Health surveillance officer use temperature scanner to monitor passengers arriving at the Hong Kong International airport in Hong Kong, Saturday, Jan. 4, 2020. Hong Kong authorities activated a newly created "serious response" level Saturday as fears spread about a mysterious infectious disease that may have been brought back by visitors to a mainland Chinese city. (AP Photo/Andy Wong) 
