food reviews
{ By Mark Duell for MailOnline   Published:  15:51, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016759/Heathrow-pub-slammed-selling-pathetic-ham-cheese-toastie.html }
A pub at London Heathrow Airport pub has been slammed for selling a 'pathetic' ham and cheese toastie for £8.25. A photograph of the uninspiring snack at the Prince of Wales pub inside Terminal Four showed two dry-looking pieces of bread that appear short of fillings. Hannah Bennett, 37, was served up the meal, which had no garnish but a stick skewering the contents, before flying to Nepal with her husband Henry, 52. She shared a picture to the Rate my Plate Facebook page, saying: 'Pathetic excuse for a meal. Not personally sure what the stick is actually doing as it's not structural.' Today, Mrs Bennett, of Priddy, Somerset, added: 'It was ham and cheese and not a lot of it. Mostly bread. We were expecting chips or a salad perhaps for the price.  'But when we queried that, the waiter said that was extra. It really was a pathetic meal for a terrible price. £8.25 for what my husband was given was laughable.  'If they conned us with such a pathetic meal. I feel sorry for everyone else who gets stuck ordering one and doesn't have the time to eat something else before flying'. Their meal cost a total of £55.70, including two drinks at £10.35, a £14.95 burger and a house salad for £4.  Trevor James wrote under her Facebook post: '£2.50 for the sandwich, £6 for the stick that was hand made by a carbon neutral co-operative of eco farmers'. Victoria Powell added: 'Oh wow. I wouldn't even embarrass myself by serving that! Shame on them. Hope you got a refund'. Alex Dik Gardner said: 'Daylight robbery. Gatwick's not far off the same either'. And Lorraine Hall commented: 'I would have refused it and got a refund.' Jane Shaw said: 'Nasty, cheap looking bread. Yuck. £8.50? Jeez'. Billy Potts added: 'You'd get more for your money even on a Ryanair flight. That's a disgrace.' There were more complaints on TripAdvisor about the pub, which has an average star rating of three, with more than a third of the reviews either 'poor' or 'terrible'.   Among them was David 2428, who said: 'Asked for chicken ham and leek pie. What I got was a very small bowl with maybe six small bits of chicken.  'One bit of ham and I did not see any leek. It was all mashed potato. The smallest and most pathetic meal I have ever had in Heathrow airport'. 923Dan reviewed his meal for lunch saying: 'Ordered the ham, egg and chips. Whilst there were lots of Egg and Chips, the tiny slither of ham was hidden under the eggs. 'The food that was served was okay, but really nothing to write home about and as said hardly any ham. Expensive for what it was, even by London Airport standards'. Johnfrisbee uploaded pictures of his £16.95 meal, including two bacon sandwiches for £11.50. As with the toastie, the snack has been speared with a wooden skewer. A spokesman for the Restaurant Group, which runs the pub, said: 'We are disappointed to hear that certain customers were not satisfied with their experience in one of our sites. We will be looking into these specific comments.'  
