{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  12:38, 2 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7845043/Big-Ben-not-big-Queen-wouldnt-wave-Buckingham-Palace-Ben-Nevis-lacks-4G.html }
The Grand Canyon, Stonehenge and the Colosseum are all historic landmarks that millions wish to tick off their bucket lists - unless, that is, they are some of the unimpressed visitors who have left scathing one-star reviews on TripAdvisor. While some may consider Britain's Stonehenge an incredible feat, others merely see it as 'just a pile of rocks'.    Disgruntled sightseers have taken to the travel website to leave a series of one and two-star reviews, branding Kew Gardens 'just a bunch of expensive trees', Hadrian's Wall as a 'heap of stones', and the Old Bailey 'just a big building that sends people off to the nick'. They have also rubbished the Eiffel Tower in Paris, which was branded 'a stupid tower that doesn't do anything' and slammed the Grand Canyon for not having any Wi-Fi.  Some tourists were left underwhelmed by the world-famous Colosseum in Rome, claiming they would 'rather watch Gladiator instead'.   After 'snowflake' visitors to the Tower of London described its Yeomen Warders, or Beefeaters, as sexist and claimed the tour was 'too gruesome', MailOnline looks at some of the most hilariously negative reviews of the great wonders of the world.   Eiffel Tower, France  The Eiffel Tower holds a claim to being France's most famous landmark - but two tourists were not overly impressed with it.  KaushikKapoor from Mumbai was 'disappointed' by the height of the 1,063ft monument, saying the queue to get in was longer than the tower itself.  And another tourist, 'NadimKobeissi', called it a 'stupid tower' that 'doesn't do anything'. They also moaned that it was full of 'loud tourists'.  Another gripe from NadimKobeissi centred on the food - or a perceived lack of it: 'No steak. No cheese. Nothing.' This reviewer then signed off with: 'Just a big tower. I want a cool tower not this tower.'   The Grand Canyon, Arizona   The Grand Canyon's impressive red expanse in Arizona is a breathtaking backdrop to the perfect selfie. But one tourist was not satisfied with the natural landmark's lack of internet access.   User '973trisc', from Perth in Australia, said: 'Look, don’t get me wrong, the views were ok.  'However, I just find it unacceptable that in this day and age wifi was non-existent. I had lots of good photos but was unable to Snapchat them.' Another tourist said the canyon was simply 'meh'.    Owster101 from Toronto said: 'Me and my family decided to go on a family trip to the Grand Canyon.  'When we got there after our four-hour car ride we quickly went straight to the viewing area and it was just a pile of dirt and rocks.  'I think you would have more fun at a park with a little sandbox and a couple of rocks and one of those cute cactuses for $5 so save your money and time.' Ben Nevis, Scotland  Writing a review for Ben Nevis, Fort William, one user, from Bury St Edmunds, wrote: 'After making it to the top in about 2.5 hours, we were ready for a nice hot drink and a view. 'There were clouds all around, there wasn't a cafe, all in all a waste of time really.' Another visitor, Jimmy L, wrote that the site was 'a big disappointment'. 'The walk was boring and unimaginative, lacked 4G signal in many places and when you got to the top you couldn't see anything,' he said. 'Also there is snow at the top... I don't like snow.' While some users berated the long walk it took to reach the top, user Colin C wrote that the mountain was 'not actually that tall'. 'One of the biggest hills I have ever seen, but not a mountain for sure,' he wrote. 'We didn't even bother getting out of the car. Driving for two days to get there was certainly the better part of the trip... Everest has nothing to worry about.' The Pantheon, Rome   This ancient temple, constructed between 113 and 125 AD, is a monument to the importance of the Roman Empire's influence on countless cultures. However, for Dubai's 'Martin A', the monument is simply 'dull'. And 'best viewed from the bar across the piazza with a beer'. Statue of Liberty, New York  TripAdvisor user '583Stewart', from Chatham, UK, called the Statue of Liberty a 'poor man's Christ Redeemer'. He wrote: 'Got off on Liberty Island then walked to the statue. 'Usual tourists just stopped everywhere to take selfies and walk really slow. 'Went up to the pedalstool ok view of Manhattan. 'The statue is not as impressive compared to Christ Redeemer.' While Londoner Joanne J said the world-famous site was 'nothing special'. 'It's just a statue in the middle of the water, not as big as we thought,' she wrote. 'It's also very expensive to go near by it so a trip there isn't worth the money really.' Big Ben, London   In one review from Londoner Aimee T, one of the capital's most iconic landmarks, Big Ben, was slated as 'NOT SO Big Ben'. She said: 'Let me tell you we should rename it Medium Ben. I've seen bigger Lego towers! 'Will return if they build it higher.' The Colosseum, Rome   An Australian tourist said watching Russell Crow's heroic fighting and shouting in the film Gladiator is a preferable alternative to visiting where the action took place - Rome's Colosseum. Paul L said: 'Decided to visit as part of walking tour... was overcrowded... badly organised.  'Queues everywhere and going nowhere and lots of steps... to see basically lumps of stone. 'Tour guides were like barking dogs telling people they couldn't go places etc... I was yelled at a couple of times... couldn't get out of there fast enough.'    Stonehenge, Wiltshire  One Canadian visitor wrote that historic tourist attraction Stonehenge was 'just a bunch of rocks sited by a busy highway'. 'Well, true it's old,' they wrote, 'and kinda amazing how neolithic man managed to install the stones by hand without modern machinery. 'But it has been ruined by construction of a massively busy highway about 100 metres away.' Another user, Doris V, wrote: 'I think that it is too expensive to see some rocks. They don't even have an explanation about how the rocks got there.' Scott C said: 'I was surprised they opened it to visitors before finishing it. Will give it another go once it's finished.' Another said: 'I appreciate that the mystery of how the stones got there before modern technology is interesting but is it worth £20 to see the rocks? Not in my opinion. Golden Gate Bridge, San Francisco  The Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco isn't just a star attraction within the city but is one of America's most memorable and inspiring structures. It's appeared in countless movies and countless tourist snaps. But 'Samilausanne' from Lausanne was distinctly non-plussed and just couldn't see what the fuss was about. They asked: 'Why is this a top attraction? It's a bridge. Painted red. Nothing else.' Kew Gardens, London Some visitors to Kew Gardens were disappointed at the 'overgrown local park', branding it 'absolutely not worth seeing'. One user, from Blackpool, blasted the site as nothing more than 'overpriced trees'. Arc de Triomphe, Paris The famous Parisian monument, which honours the fallen from the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars, spectacularly failed to impress this visitor. Abhinav S said: 'It's situated in the middle of a roundabout. That's it. 'Nothing special. To reach it you have to cross a wide road with angry motorists honking at you while you cross it. NOT WORTH IT.' White Cliffs, Dover  Writing a scathing one-star review for the White Cliffs of Dover, TripAdvisor user GoToGate 13 wrote in November: 'They are not white. It's a myth. They are a dirty light brown colour. Unless part of the cliff has fallen.' User Philip G wrote of his disappointment that there were no blue birds over the white cliffs, as promised in the song popularised by Dame Vera Lynn. 'I realise that they're not native to Britain, but you'd think they could have put in some kind of an effort,' he wrote. 'I mean, come on! How hard can it be?! I even returned the following day (tomorrow), and there was still a complete absence of blue birds. 'I have therefore written to Dame Vera Lynn to complain, but have yet to receive a reply.' Uluru (Ayers Rock), Australia This Unesco-listed sacred sandstone monolith isn't to everyone's liking.  TripAdvisor user 'Bankhall' described it as a 'joke'. And a 'total waste of time'. Why? Because it's 'just a big stone sticking up in the desert'. Another reviewer, N6062URjonathanw, concurred, saying 'go somewhere else and experience Australia without fences, thousands of tourists and without getting ripped off by expensive entry fees'.   Hadrian's Wall, Brampton A tourist from Glasgow who visited Hadrian's Wall was disappointed that the barrier keeping barbarians out of Roman Britain was not still standing. He wrote: 'Where is the wall? 'If anyone wants to see the wall, do not expect the real continuation of Hadrian's Wall, you can see the place where the wall was built. 'Along with its old path, there is no wall nowadays. 'It's better to call it ''Hadrian's Wall route'' instead of Hadrian's Wall.' Meanwhile another user, from Carlisle, branded the site a 'pile of stones'. 'If you are into Roman history the various locations on the wall will be of interest. Not over impressed as it's all a bit of a ruin.' Tower Bridge, London  In September last year one TripAdvisor user from Richmond wrote of Tower Bridge: 'It is a bridge. 'While on my way to work I was walking over the bridge. That is it. I don't understand the hype or the reason why it is so monumental. It is literally just a bridge.' Old Bailey, London   And speaking of the Central Criminal Court, the Old Bailey, user Edward Chappell, from Hayes, wrote: 'It is just a big building that sends people off to the nick.  'What is the point of watching someone sent off to the nick? I am not Snow White so any thing less than murder - good luck to anyone trying to make a few bob.' Another user told people considering visiting the historic centre of justice: 'Don't bother. 'My wife and daughter are big UK law and order fans, so we waited to be metal scanned and climbed five flights of stairs to sit in a waiting room before being assigned to a public gallery.' In a damning indictment of the justice system he added: 'Once inside we got to see men and women in wigs discussing their calendars and why they couldn't possibly do anything today. Avoid unless you're facing charges.' Pump Rooms, Bath  Over in Bath, so named for its impressive bath house complex built by the Romans, one Londoner was not impressed. 'Once [you've seen] one stone then you seen em all - but that said a must see in one life time on visit to Bath, I guess. '£17.50 per adult is a tad bit on the expensive side.' Another Londoner, David B, wrote: 'Not for me - you need a good imagination [to] see the point of walking round a green rectangle of water.' A Canadian visitor told other prospective tourists not to 'waste your money'. 'The Bath looks like a pool that hasn't been cleaned in years,' they wrote. 'They brag about the underground water and how warm it is... use it and clean this up. We got had.' Glastonbury Tor  Glastonbury Tor also got a slating from a local visitor. 'Once you've seen it once, you've seen it forever. It's just a building on a hill,' she wrote. 'The building isn't even the tor, the hill is. Gorgeous but a bit cold and windy.' Another user said: 'It's just an old tower on a hill and really isn't mystical or enchanting - sorry but it just doesn't do anything for me.'  Tower of London  And 'snowflake' tourists visiting the Tower of London complained that it is not suitable for children because of its bloody past, even accusing its Yeomen Warders — popularly known as Beefeaters — of being sexist.   Among the complaints include guests being given graphic details of executions carried out at the fortress - which was first built around the year 1078 and remained in use well into the 19th century.      The Tower remains home to the Crown Jewels and attracts three million visitors every year. But one moaner posted online: 'We took the free tour offered at the Tower and it was entertaining but not at all suitable for children. 'The whole site should be avoided by families with children who are old enough to understand what an execution and torture are.' Another wrote: 'I was also extremely turned off by the repeated sexist language and jokes by my tour guide.' Another said: 'Great tour, marred only by some casual sexism from the presenter.'     Another said: 'An impolite and disrespectful guard in a ridiculous costume allowed people with less walking problems to skip the line, yet told my wife is she can walk she can wait in line.' One said: 'The Yeoman didn't impress - they pride themselves on being rude.'   
