{ By Connor Boyd Health Reporter For Mailonline   Published:  13:38, 31 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-7839803/Trendy-hangover-cure-IV-drips-plugged-Love-Island-stars-slammed-nations-doctor.html }
Trendy 'hangover cure' IV drips promoted by reality TV stars and influencers have been slammed as a 'dangerous fad' by a top doctor. Firms peddling so-called 'party drips' claim they replenish electrolytes and nutrients lost after a heavy drinking session. But Professor Stephen Powis, NHS England's medical director, has warned there is absolutely no evidence to support the far-fetched claims. He said celebrities promoting the 'reckless', 'exploitative' and 'dangerous' treatments were 'letting their fans down'. The bogus remedies have been plugged by Love Island's Amber Davies, Anna Vakili, Camilla Thurlow and Jamie Jewitt. Made In Chelsea stars Oliver Proudlock and Olivia Bentley have also promoted the treatments, which start at £75 a pop. The fluids are typically made up of a cocktail of salt water, vitamins and anti-nausea medication, fed directly into the bloodstream through an intravenous tube.  Professor Powis has issued his warning against the treatments as millions prepare to celebrate New Year's Eve.   He said, in extreme cases, regularly resorting to drips for hangover cures can cause liver damage, or even death due to a toxic overdose of vitamin A. Model Kendall Jenner was hospitalised following a bad reaction to a 'Myers cocktail' IV drip, made up of saline solution, magnesium, calcium, B vitamins and vitamin C.  Professor Powis added: 'At a time when health misinformation is running riot on social media, it is reckless and exploitative of these companies to peddle ineffective and misleading treatments, and those celebrities and influencers who help them do this are letting their fans down. 'People who are healthy do not need IV drips. At best they are an expensive way to fill your bladder - and then flush hundreds of pounds down the toilet - but at worst they can cause significant damage to your health. 'While many of us want to enjoy ourselves at this time of year, it is important to remember that nothing beats eating well and drinking sensibly when it comes to staying well.' He said: 'A much better way to "cure" a hangover is through drinking plenty of water and getting some fresh air.  He said miracle hangover cures and quick fixes 'simply don't exist' and warned anyone online who says they do is 'probably out to make a quick buck at your expense'. Once the preserve of costly celebrity clinics, IV drips are now easily accessible, with some companies delivering them to people's homes. Others require customers to go to a high street salon, some of which are located in England's biggest shopping centres. While 'vitamin' drips are still expensive, some companies offer discounts for multiple purchases or group discounts. Exposing the liver and kidneys to large quantities of vitamins can place them under significant stress. The National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) has prohibited companies from offering the drips without screening liver and kidney function beforehand. There is always a risk of infection with IV vitamin therapy, as any time an IV line is inserted, it creates a direct path into the bloodstream. Despite this, the drips are on sale on the high street and promoted by celebrities and influencers online alongside claims to cure hangovers, strengthen the immune system or burn fat. Other benefits touted range from increased energy and enhanced mood to decreased stress or anxiety. However, there is no evidence to show that they can deliver on any of these promises. Clinics have been warned by the official regulatory body, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, that they must clearly advertise drips are intended for non-medicinal purposes only. Beyoncé, the Kardashians and Chrissy Teigen have all been name-checked in a list of 2019's worst health fads. Leading dietitians have revealed five of the worst tips they've come across this year that should be avoided in 2020, including Beyoncé's 22-day diet. The British Dietetic Association (BDA) urged dieters to remember it takes longer than 22 days to boost health through food.   And the body also slammed hair gummies - promoted by the Kardashians for being based on 'zero evidence'. IV drips, which are endorsed by model Chrissy Teigen and singer Rihanna, could also be dangerous, the BDA said.  The BDA said it comes across an enormous amount of bizarre claims - and celebrities are at the forefront of some 'laughable' fads. IV drips Promoters claim IV vitamin drips can do almost anything, including burning fat, quickly fixing a hangover, boosting energy levels, fighting jet lag or strengthening the immune system.  Who's a fan? The market has boomed in recent years since singer and businesswoman Rihanna and model Chrissy Teigen posted photos of themselves hooked up to a vitamin cocktail IV in 2012 and 2015 respectively.  BDA verdict: There is no evidence that taking vitamins via an IV drip has any benefits for most people, and this invasive procedure can be dangerous. Marcela Fiuza said: 'Any time you have an IV inserted, there is a risk of infection as well as risk that a vein could become inflamed or blocked with a clot (a condition called thrombophlebitis).  'This risk is increased when unqualified people are doing it. 'There is also a concerning risk that you will get too much of the vitamins without knowing. This can have serious health implications, particularly for those having it regularly. People living with health conditions (known or unknown) are also at particular risk for this. 'Even if no complications occur, you will probably just excrete at least 90 per cent of what's being infused – it is literally money down the toilet.  'For most people, a healthy balanced diet (and in some cases an oral vitamin supplement) is sufficient to provide all the vitamins and minerals you need.' Beyoncé's 22-day diet  Beyoncé and her trainer Marco Borges created the 22 Days Nutrition vegan food plan, based around the pretence of 21 days being enough to make or break a habit. By day 22, you should be converted and stick to eating a plant-based diet.  The plan isn't available in the UK but in the USA the cost is $39 (£29.70) per quarter or $99 (£75.30) for the year.  Who's a fan? Beyoncé and her husband Jay Z. BDA verdict: This way of eating is said to have huge health benefits due to cutting out processed foods and reducing meat consumption. But it is too short to make an impact.  Anna Daniels said: 'This could be a good way for someone to want to kick start a better way of eating and reduce their intake of high fat, high salt foods.  However, it will certainly take longer than 22 days to eat optimally and for good health and longevity. 'A few reviews of the diet online call out some issues with the variety of unusual ingredients and preparation time.  'I am a believer in eating right and planning, however it does have to work for you - if it's too hard it won't happen.  'Beyoncé also may very well have had a personal chef creating the plan for her which would have made it far easier to stick to. 'You could do this on your own, using your own recipes and adapting your current recipes, without the expense.' Hair gummies Hair gummies are what they say on the tin - they are gummy sweets which supposedly improve your hair. Yet, there is no scientific backing for them. Who's a fan? Celebrities like reality TV stars Khloé, Kim, Kourtney and Kris Kardashian and actress Vanessa Hudgens have all regularly promoted hair gummies on Instagram. BDA verdict: These hair gummies are over-priced multivitamins targeted at those of us who are unhappy with our hair. Celebs and influencers with hairdressers on tap, hair extensions and naturally gorgeous hair are promoting these as 'must have products' at £20-30 each month.  Aisling Pigott said: 'Another celeb, another false nutrition claim.  'Hair and skin health are influenced by many factors including lifestyle, hormones, genetics and diet. However, to imply that taking a vitamin tablet can "give us better hair" is based on zero evidence. 'Vitamin and mineral deficiencies which affect our hair are rare, but an overall poor diet can impact our hormones and stress levels. 'This is irresponsible advertising from celebrities endorsing products which lack scientific evidence. If you want to get the best out of your hair (and save some cash), enjoy a healthy, balanced diet with the right amount of energy, fruit and vegetables.' 
