food reviews
{ By Sophie Haslett For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  00:24, 31 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7838401/Your-definitive-guide-best-worst-household-products-2019.html }
Consumer experts have revealed the best and worst household products of 2019, after testing hundreds of supermarket items. The organisation Choice put the likes of toilet papers, laundry detergents, fabric softeners and multi-purpose sprays to the test to find the products you should buy and the ones you should avoid. From a $1.25 cult stain remover spray from Aldi to the top laundry detergent, FEMAIL reveals the best and worst buys of the year. STAIN REMOVERS   The best  When it comes to stain removers, Choice found that brand loyalty won't exactly serve you well, as both the best and worst products come from Sard. Sard Wonder SuperPower Stain Remover topped their test with a Choice Expert rating of 79 per cent. However, if you're on a budget, they also found that Coles and Aldi's own-brand products work nearly as well, scoring just one percentage point lower for around half the price per 100ml. Aldi's Di-San Stain Remover costs just $1.25 and boasts a host of glowing reviews online. The worst  On the other hand, Sard Wonder Deo and Sweat Stain Remover scored just 52 per cent in the Choice test. 'By comparison, detergent with water (and no stain remover) also scored 52 per cent,' Choice said.  LAUNDRY DETERGENT The best Laundry detergents were tested by using cloth swatches embedded with specific amounts of dirt. Each swatch was then washed with the laundry detergent they were tested, and then spectrometers were used to compare how much of a stain was left. Omo with a Touch of Comfort Inspired Freshness came out on top for front loader machines, with 84 per cent.  While the detergent is quite pricey at $22, the cost per wash works out at just 51 cents. The worst On the other hand, Woolworths' Essentials Laundry Liquid Clean Wash Apple Fragrance scored just 39 per cent in choice testing. While it costs $1.49 and works out at just six cents a wash, the experts found it performed even worse than plain water, which scored 42 per cent in their test. 'It was outdone by plain water on just about every stain, including blood, baby food, tomato, perspiration and grass/mud,' Choice said. DISHWASHER DETERGENTS  The best Choice found the best dishwasher detergent to be Earth Choice Dish Tablets, which you can find at Woolworths for $16.20.  With an expert rating of 77 per cent, the tablets work out at just eight cents per wash. The worst The worst dishwasher detergent was Woolworths Shine Dishwasher Powder Concentrate, which got just 38 per cent and costs eight cents per wash.    GLASS AND WINDOW CLEANERS The best Two products tied for the best glass and window cleaners, with both scoring an impressive 74 per cent.  Windex Multi-Purpose Cleaner Surface & Glass and Windex Multipurpose Cleaner Surface & Glass Mountain Fresh both won the award. Both products cost an affordable $4.80.  The worst  Plain water was one of the worst products for cleaning your glass and windows, scoring just 35 per cent in their test. But the Choice testers were surprised to find some household items were just as bad, if not worse. Ecostore Ultra Sensitive Glass & Surface Cleaner scored 33 per cent, while Aldi's Power Force Pro Glass Cleaner and Community Co Clean Freak! Glass & Window Cleaner both scored 35 per cent.  Earth Choice Window & Glass Crystal Clean got one more per cent with 36 per cent.  But the experts recommended you steer clear of all of them.   FABRIC SOFTENERS The best  When it comes to fabric softeners, Choice are fairly adamant that they are not just bad for the environment and leave your clothes coated in chemicals, but they are often largely unnecessary. However, they said if you must buy one, then Huggie Easy Iron Fabric Conditioner Lavender, for $7.99, is your best bet. It scored 82 per cent in the ratings and costs 80 cents per 100mL. The worst The worst you can buy is Cuddly Concentrate Soft & Sensitive Fabric Conditioner, which costs $15.  This scored just 46 per cent and costs 90 cents per 100mL.  TOILET PAPER The best Lastly, the consumer organisation looked at something we all need: toilet paper. Choice found that the best is Quilton Toilet Tissue Double Length Floral, which costs $9.50.  With an 83 per cent score, it is the most recommended product for softness, disintegration and overall effectiveness. The worst Choice said you should steer clear of Who Gives a Cr*p Premium Bamboo Toilet Paper, which sells in packs of 48 for $56.  Pure Planet Club Superhero Large was tied with the Who Gives a Cr*p, and both scored just 65 per cent. 
