food reviews
{ By Alex Brummer for the Daily Mail   Published:  21:51, 30 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/comment/article-7838175/ALEX-BRUMMER-High-Street-far-out.html }
The shrieks of agony from the High Street over the past 12 months have been resounding.  It is the year which saw Mothercare disappear from the UK, Marks & Spencer fall out of the FTSE 100 and Mike Ashley, owner of House of Fraser, closing historic department stores. In its sales report on Christmas Eve, John Lewis reported a 5.9 per cent decline in revenues against 2018, with its upmarket Waitrose food stores 11.9 per cent down. Price transparency has undermined the 'never knowingly undersold' pledge and the better logistics of Amazon and other digital rivals have left John Lewis looking pedestrian.  Except at the very top end of the market – Selfridges, Harvey Nichols, Fortnum & Mason and Harrods – where shopping is still a magical experience, the department store looks increasing anachronistic. But is retail really doing so badly? Admittedly it is up against some immovable forces. Business rates have proved iniquitous.  The unfairness of bricks-and-mortar retailers shelling out when Amazon, Boohoo, Asos and other online sellers largely escape has been a big theme for this paper.  It has long been my contention that upward-only rent reviews are as big a danger to the High Street. It is only in the better shopping emporia that more realistic turnover-related rents are used as an incentive to bring in fashionable names.  Many landlords have been happy enough to sit on empty retail properties and watch underlying values rise rather than accept lower returns. But as new data from job agency Adzuna shows, retail was far from being the hardest-hit sector amid the Brexit uncertainty of 2019.  Manufacturing was hurt most, with vacancies down by 27 per cent, followed by trade and construction and property. Retail vacancies are 13 per cent down, which is not surprising given the digital challenge. It is also worth noting that the best retailers, with the strongest unique selling point (USP), still do well. As we report today, the best-performing share of the decade has been JD Sports. Shoppers cannot resist its fashion sportswear and vast choice of trainers popular with young people.  Next outperforms rival M&S and is not scared of opening stores. Primark, owned by Associated British Foods, continues to soar. Those retailers in touch with their USP will continue to prosper. It was when M&S stopped prioritising quality, innovation and sourcing as much product in the UK as possible, creating a whole fashion ecosystem, that it lost touch with core customers. Slave labour Neither the operator of South Western Railway (SWR) trains or leaders of the RMT union are acting responsibly in allowing a two-year-old dispute over the role of guards on trains to lead to strikes. The people penalised by this are the passengers. Whether or not SWR is right to want drivers to operate doors, rather than leaving the task to the guards, is the core of the dispute, and safety is paramount. But any sympathy one may have for the RMT and the guards evaporates when one hears sub-Corbyn rhetoric from union leader Mick Cash. On breakfast TV, he suggested the guards were being treated like 'slaves'. Such exaggerated language, to describe workers earning, on average, £30,196 a year with six weeks' holiday and other benefits, reveals a distorted worldview. David Jones Next would not be what it is today but for the efforts of its former chairman and chief executive Sir David Jones, who has died from Parkinson's disease. He steered it through its darkest times in the 1980s when, weighed down by debt, it looked as if it might end up on the scrapheap.  He leaves a fine legacy, and an honesty about his suffering which was unusually brave.   
