food reviews
{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  21:09, 28 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7833101/Family-complains-250-Christmas-meal-hell.html }
A family abandoned plans to have a five-course meal at a Bath gastropub on Christmas day after suffering what they described as 'disastrous' service.  Jo Macpherson, her partner Simon Wright, 59, his mother Beryl, 85 and his eight-year-old daughter Harriet, 8, were booked into the Bathampton Mill in Bath at 3.15pm on Christmas day.  However, Ms Macpherson, 39, complained they had to wait an hour for their first course and said their waitress had been 'very rude' to them.  She said she witnessed kitchen staff arguing with each other and decided at 4.30pm that they would give up and go home.  She told Somerset Live that she and he partner returned home whether they had a meal of frozen pizza, cheese and crackers following their disastrous experience.  She said Bathampton Mill apologised for the delays and refunded them the £250 they had spent on booking the meal.  The venue said they were short staffed on the day when three front of staff members called in sick.  She told Somerset Live: 'It was nothing short of a disaster due to lack of staff and organisation. 'It also seemed the service staff were arguing with the kitchen staff. I was told by the waitress, who was actually very rude, when we complained about poor/slow service, menu changes and a cancelled amuse-bouche. 'She stated that she was not happy either as she could be at home with her family enjoying Xmas. She obviously didn't want to work on Christmas day.'  She said the experience completely ruined her Christmas.   According to The Mirror, Barthampton Mill's general Manager Marc Richardson said : 'It is with regret that at Bathampton Mill, on Christmas Day we were left extremely short staffed, at very short notice," he said. 'Three of our front of house team were unfortunately too ill for work, and this left us with no choice but to try and look after the guests we had booked in, whilst not wanting to cancel and spoil their day. 'This had a huge impact on our guest service, and whilst I appreciate it has spoiled their festive lunch, we gave the guest in question a full refund and are truly very sorry for the inconvenience and disappointment this must have caused to their group.' One Tripadvisor reviewer said they had a great experience at the restaurant on Christmas day, however, several one-star reviews were left by customers.   
