china
{  
    October 10 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/chinas-new-order-the-sweet-and-the-sour--25925820.html }
The emergence of China as the new economic powerhouse is proving both a threat and opportunity for Ireland CHARLIE WESTON in Beijing Martin Naughton, one of Ireland's wealthiest industrialists, was celebrating in China this week by ordering bottles of Chateau Lynch-Bages for those who joined him for a drink. At ?80 a bottle in China, the Bordeaux wine is not cheap. But Mr Naughton could afford to be generous. President Mary McAleese performed the official opening of the first Chinese factory of his company, Glen Dimplex. The new factory will allow the Irish electric heating manufacturer to tap into the vast and lucrative Chinese market. It will be an extremely low-cost operation compared to the company's European factories. The Dublin-based manufacturer has invested ?10m in its new Chinese factory which will employ 500 people. But the very fact that indigenous Irish multinationals like Glen Dimplex are setting up in China, where costs are a fraction of those in Ireland, sends a shiver down the spines of Irish workers and policy makers. The fear is that China's dirt-cheap production costs, its lack of workers' rights and inexhaustible supply of labour will suck the life out of Irish manufacturing. Glen Dimplex was just one of a number of Irish companies that announced new operations in China this week to coincide with the President's visit. In all, contacts worth around ?40m where inked. The fear among many in Ireland is that company bosses, faced with ever rising costs in Western democracies like Ireland, are signing away jobs from Ireland. However, Glen Dimplex, which claims to be the largest manufacturer of heating appliances in the world, vehemently denies its new factory in China will mean job losses at home. The new factory is to serve the enormous Chinese market, managing director Sean O'Driscoll said. The company has 22 factories worldwide and its products include such well-known names as Morphy Richards, Belling and Dimplex. The company also uses its presence in China to source components worth around ?100m a year for its factories in Europe. Without this there would be no factory in Ireland and the 300 jobs would be lost, the company argues. However, critics of China are yet to be convinced that the emergence of the country as an economic powerhouse will not eventually tear the heart out of manufacturing in high-cost European countries like Ireland. Workers in China earn as little as ?1,000 a year and live under harsh conditions, often on the site of the factory. Chairman of Independent News & Media, which owns this newspaper, Sir Anthony O'Reilly, summed it up recently: "The threat is clear. There are possibly 450 million Chinese in the manufacturing economy. There are 850 million people on the bench waiting to get into manufacturing and the services sector." Unions and Amnesty International's Irish section have added their voices this week, expressing fears over greater trade links between Ireland and China. They have also been highly critical of the Presidential visit and its attendant trade mission. Amnesty's Colm ó Cuanacháin said there had been an enormous rise in labour disputes in China recently, sparked by lower wages, corrupt management, mass lay-offs, dangerous working conditions and restrictive working practices in factories. Others have pointed out that the country's failure to respect copyrights and patent laws and its undervalued currency give China an unfair advantage over the West. Also, environmental standards are permitted in the Asian country that would not be allowed in Europe or America. SIPTU president Jack O'Connor said he was concerned that the trade deals signed by Irish companies in China this week could lead to Irish job losses. Mr O'Connor called for the deals to be put under close scrutiny. He said the signing of the new contracts would not necessarily translate into good news for Irish workers. Enterprise Ireland director Peter Coyle, in China for the Presidential visit and trade mission, responded that all the contracts announced this week represent new business and no jobs would be transferred out of Ireland as a result of the deals. Mr Coyle was right. No Irish companies shifting jobs from Ireland to China were going to seek the publicity of a Presidential opening in China to publicise what they are doing. Low-skilled, assembly-type jobs certainly are being transferred out of Ireland and economists argue that this is inevitable. An indication of the surge of business contacts between the two countries comes from the sharp rise in applications to the Chinese embassy in Dublin for business visas. Between 2000 and last year there was a doubling in visa applications to 1,179. Policy makers in Ireland have long recognised that the country has no future in low-skilled manufacturing. IDA Ireland and Enterprise Ireland have focused their efforts on ensuring the country upgrades its skills, otherwise we can't hope to compete with countries like China. Irish companies are being encouraged to source components and parts in China and carry out more complicated and sophisticated assembly and research in Ireland. Jobs like research and development and education are our best hope as China and the rest of the Far East increasingly become the workshops and sweatshops of the world. It boils down to the fact that China is both a threat and an opportunity. One group in Ireland to realise that China offers massive potential is teachers. Representatives from some 35 schools, colleges and universities accompanied the President this week to tap into the country's hunger for education and English language classes. One school, the Institute of Education on Dublin's Lesson Street, revealed that it has signed a deal with six Chinese schools to offer the first ever Leaving Cert courses there. Sixty students will sit the Leaving in places as exotic as Beijing and Shanghai. However, they won't have to study Irish. There are 10,000 Chinese students studying in Ireland but that figure should be doubled, according to Education Minister Noel Dempsey. Speaking in Beijing, he said there was a shortage of some 10m university places in China. Non-EU nationals have to shell out ?10,000 a year in tuition fees making them a good earner for Irish schools and colleges. China still has a one child policy for couples and parents will forgo the likes of a television and never take a holiday in order to educate their offspring. This parental sacrifice has led the children to be dubbed 'Little Emperors'. Mr Dempsey said: "We are targeting the Chinese because they are short 10 million places in their own university system. China is a huge potential market for Irish education." Mr Dempsey also promised to crack down on bogus colleges and schools in Asia. Bogus colleges with names like 'Connacht College' and 'Irish University' advertise their services on the internet. In China you can buy a dodgy degree in a street market. Also attempting to make its mark in China is smash hit dance and music show Riverdance. The first ever Riverdance in China had its first performance last night which was attended by the President. Moya Doherty and John McColgan of the show are considering setting up a third dance troop just to conquer the Chinese market. Exports like Riverdance, companies like Glen Dimplex and colleges like the Institute of Education are our only hope of ensuring that the Chinese Dragon does not devour what is left of the Celtic Tiger. 
