china
{  
    April 22 2012 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/future-full-of-eastern-promise-for-irish-firms-26845482.html }
Continuing our series where business leaders suggest ways of kick-starting the Irish economy, Liam Casey of PCH International says the Chinese hunger for foreign brands is an opportunity I was attending an overseas trade show in the early Nineties when I asked a Taiwanese colleague if he had ever sold hardware to Ireland. When he answered: "I've never heard of that company," I knew there had to be an opportunity in Asia. I first moved to China in the mid-Nineties, when it used to be a place to make cheap products. Now it's the only place to make hi-tech products. China is quickly becoming the place to sell those products. PCH International was set up in 1996 as a sourcing company in Shenzhen in southern China, with our headquarters in Cork, and the business has grown from just one person in the first two years to more than 1,000 people today. We are proud to say that our customer base includes the world's top brands as well as start-ups, and we focus on the fast-growing accessories market for smartphones, eReaders and tablets. We offer complete end-to-end product development and supply chain solutions. The global economic downturn has changed the Irish business landscape. As challenging as it has been, I choose to look at it as an opportunity. The term 'Reset Economy' has been coined and Irish entrepreneurs and businesses have the chance to write the new rules. Traditionally, Irish people operate best when we're under pressure, and I believe we need to play to our strengths. Going forward, we will need to leverage our creativity and innovation, and we should build global brands that we can export. As part of this we should be looking to not only attract inward investment but also to export Irish brands to foreign markets. I firmly believe that the road to recovery for Irish businesses and entrepreneurs will lead them to other markets, particularly Asia. While China is an obvious choice for Irish companies in terms of sourcing and manufacturing, there are limitless opportunities to sell to the Chinese domestic economy. There is a phenomenal appetite for foreign brands in China. The Chinese middle class is growing rapidly with more than 300 million people today, and is estimated to make up 75 per cent of the population by 2050. The rise of the Chinese middle class has been reflected in spending patterns and consumption. By the end of 2011, China had 513 million internet users, including 356 million mobile internet users with about 35 per cent of urban Chinese using smartphones. This increased spending power and demand for western goods represents a real opportunity for Irish companies and luxury brands. Education and tourism are sectors that have enormous opportunities for growth. The World Tourism Organisation has estimated that the total number of Chinese outbound tourists will reach 100m by 2020. Agriculture, food and dairy industries are also areas of strength for Ireland that have a bright future in China. Ireland has a strong reputation in Asia and there is already a huge affinity for Ireland and Irish products. The Irish diaspora is extremely active with organisations such as the GAA and St Patrick's Society enthusiastically promoting Irish sport and culture in the region. In the business arena, the Irish Chamber of Commerce and Asia-Pacific Ireland Business Forum have done a lot to enhance trade ties, and Irish companies can take advantage of this strong network to start collaborating and building relationships. The Chinese believe that the difficulties facing Europe are temporary and the recent visit to Ireland by Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping in February was very important for developing improved trade relations with Ireland. The visit also emphasised the importance that China is placing on the Irish economy and Irish businesses. While PCH is primarily based in China and we have customers all over the world, we are headquartered in Cork and one of the reasons for this is the calibre of people in Ireland. Irish companies have a number of other strengths that can be exported. A Grant Thornton Global Survey in 2011 ranked Irish companies as world leaders in corporate social responsibility, something that has become an essential part of business strategy in China and Asia. Focusing on social and environmental best practices leads to economic benefit -- also known as the "triple bottom line" approach to doing business. It's no secret that engaged employees will stay with your company longer, work harder and more creatively, and take personal responsibility for making your business thrive. Running a sustainable and environmentally friendly company is just good business sense. Based on my experience, I would recommend any entrepreneur or business interested in China to consider a number of points. • Firstly, know why you are doing business in China and what it is you are offering. Some companies get carried away by the thought of China's 1.3 billion-strong emerging market. It may sound obvious, but in such a huge market, clarity is very important. You need to know if you want to make products or sell products, and you need separate entities to do both. • Secondly, there is no need to become an expert at setting up your company. Become an expert at running your company. There are plenty of consultants in China who can help you set up and understand the details. Managing a company in China is similar to managing a company in Ireland -- hire the right people and run your business competitively. Communication is important in any business. In China, this goes far beyond the difficulties of learning a foreign language. For example, we employ a full-time Chinese teacher to make it easier for our expatriate staff to live and work in China. We also employ an English teacher for Chinese staff but discourage colleagues from speaking a foreign language in business meetings; because so much emphasis gets placed on perfecting the language, you can miss the real communication in the meeting. • Copyright is something a lot of companies are concerned about. My advice is to register your patents and trademarks in Chinese law. If you have a dispute over copyright, China will recognise domestic copyright law. It doesn't cost a lot to register your patents. • China is a long-term commitment. You can't expect to get things done overnight -- but if you are patient, you'll find that it's worth the time invested. My final tip for Irish entrepreneurs is that you can't be afraid to fail; in fact you have to fail at some things to be successful. Larry Page, co-founder of Google, once said: "Have a healthy respect for the impossible... you have to seek out the toughest challenges, because that's where the greatest opportunities lie." I believe the Irish economic recovery will be led by businesses that seek out new opportunities and don't let challenges stand in their way. Liam Casey is a member of the Advisory Group for the Global Irish Network, International Start-up Ambassador to China for Enterprise Ireland, and is patron of the Asia-Pacific Ireland Business Forum. Sunday Indo Business 
