china
{ Medb Ruane 
    May 24 2008 03:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/step-by-step-chinas-totalitarian-rulers-have-been-massaging-western-public-opinion-without-giving-much-in-return-26451728.html }
Pity the Chinese people. An earthquake ruptures Sichuan province, killing and injuring almost 70,000. Sympathy marks the West's response as images show ordinary people wailing for dead and missing, struggling to find survivors, pulling together against impossible odds. China's people rise to the challenge. Prime Minister Wen Jiabo flies to Sichuan like a western politician would, refusing medical attention when he falls and cuts himself because others need it more. The earthquake releases a tsunami of the heart from West to East, with daily reports proving the Chinese share a common humanity. They have feelings, like us. They love, live, work, grieve, just like us. So far, so good. Without the earthquake, talk of China would mention Tibet and the Olympic protests, speak of AIDS campaigner Hu Jia who was sent to prison on April 1 for daring to question China's human rights abuses. Or wonder about the welfare of Ye Guozhu, who was arrested and tortured for objecting when his home was bulldozed to make way for the Olympics. But after Sichuan, the impact of Steven Spielberg's very public resignation as an Olympics advisor fades. Even George Clooney's campaigns take second place. Faced with human suffering, it's almost impolite to criticise China's stirring up of conflict in Darfur by supplying 90pc of Sudan's small arms -- and buying some 70pc of its oil. Not that far or good? A battle for hearts and minds is being waged, manipulating human sympathy at the risk of masking China's implacable resistance to democratic values. On the plus side, Sichuan may be releasing a grass roots politics able to say some things freely. Locals (and many of China's 75 million bloggers) are asking about profiteering during the recent building boom, angry that safety came second to developers' interests (which may alert Irish investors to the quality of property they've bought there). This is new for China because it's being reported. At first, Wen Jiabo's Propaganda Department banned all media from Sichuan, but Chinese journalists simply ignored them and by the next day the order was rescinded. The results went global. Now, the propaganda tsars are reportedly 'encouraging' media to spin tales of heroic rescues, great human spirit, etc, rather than investigate bribery and corruption between local officials and profiteers. People are heroic. As Barack Obama knows well, simple tales of hope and valour beat messy, dirty stories hands down. But the sheer convenience of the earthquake coverage -- its timing, the way it transforms China from tyrant to victim -- must be questioned critically. After all, Chinese people still don't even have the right to vote. The Sichuan story may be a case of clever Chinese authorities using the disaster to launch a sinister 're-education' of the rest of the world -- rather than letting it become a victory for freer speech (and democratic change) as the rest would like to imagine. Like Tony Blair making his name when he spoke after Princess Diana's death, official China looks better than it has for years. Propaganda-wise, it's a tragic but lucky break in China's ongoing charm offensive under the headline 'How the West will be Won'. Step by step, China's totalitarian rulers have massaged Western public opinion, without as yet giving much in return. Since Richard Nixon's historic visit there in 1972, official China has opened contact with the rest of the world and grown its economy. China's economic power now can make or break most other states. Wen Jiabo's appearance in Sichuan was the perfect counterpoint to the iconic footage of a young Chinese protester confronting a tank in Tiananmen Square. The image seemed to say progress was being made because it appealed so powerfully to Western ideas about what leaders should do. Are we to trust the image? Soon after Spielberg resigned, China's Special Envoy on Darfur, Liu Guijin, set about de-coupling China's role in the Darfur conflict from the shiny happy Olympics. Also this year, the US dropped China from its Top Ten of worst human rights offenders, although nothing had changed in fact. The dilemma of China is more than an old-style conflict between appeasing or confronting. One possible future could bring democracy of a sort by exploiting the Chinese love of consumption, especially Western lifestyles. The growing middle classes in cities such as Beijing and Shanghai dress like New Yorkers and Parisians, dine on the best cuisine and want all the luxuries they can buy. David Holmes represented Ireland's DJ culture in both cities and packed out when we created a cultural exchange there recently. But behind the wealth and glitz were baby girls abandoned on the streets because of the one-child policy; beggars with self-amputated limbs trying to win a crust; prostitutes performing every decent and indecent sexual act a Westerner wanted; the families of men like Ye Guozhu left homeless in the name of development. If Ireland won less than a single per cent of Chinese markets, our economy could be set up for generations. The dilemma is whether we are appeasing China or genuinely provoking change. mruane@independent.ie 
