china
{ His Excellency Jianguo Xu is Chinese Ambassador to Ireland 
    June 13 2014 11:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/why-china-and-ireland-must-forge-even-deeper-relations-30353848.html }
Next week will mark the 35th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Ireland and the People's Republic of China. The visit to Ireland next week of Liu Yunshan, Member of the Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China's (CPC) Central Committee, would provide both governments with an opportunity to reflect on more than three decades of friendship and what can be done to ensure further enhancement and development of the fruitful ties between our countries.  Having recently begun my tenure as China's 12th Ambassador to Ireland, I am especially pleased to note that the China-Ireland relationship has never been better and that we have plenty of reasons to rejoice in the vast potential in the widening contacts, exchanges and co-operation between our nations. In the past 35 years, China and Ireland have all along respected and trusted each other, treating each other as equals. We have proved with our positive actions that enormous geographic distance and big differences in size, ideology, social system and culture are no barriers to the growth of a warm and friendly bilateral relationship. Both our countries have long histories with a strong sense of commitment to culture, family and tradition. Both countries have come through dramatic economic and social transformation over the past several decades. Over the years, our two countries have set a good example of state-to-state relations, unswervingly upholding equality, mutual trust and mutual benefit in our exchanges and interactions. Many Chinese leaders have visited and studied Ireland's pioneering Shannon Free Zone, including President Xi Jinping, when he paid a historic and successful visit to Ireland in February 2012. Recent years have laid a solid political foundation and created a favourable atmosphere for expanding and deepening bilateral business co-operation. Our trade and economic relations are complementary and mutually beneficial. Two-way trade increased by 13.2pc in 2013 to $6.67bn (€4.95bn). For seven consecutive years, China has been Ireland's largest trading partner in Asia. And in the past five years, Ireland has run a surplus in its trade with China. The Irish Government and the Irish people have taken decisive and effective action to ensure that Ireland responds properly to its economic and financial challenges. With the world's largest population, China is faced with the huge challenge of growing its economy and improving people's livelihood. The national leadership headed by President Xi Jinping has to address both old problems and new ones. It is development that will change the world and shape the future. China is to pool the courage, vision and strength of 1.3 billion people to write a new chapter in the "China story", with a view to realising the great Chinese dream of national renewal by mid-21st Century, when the 100th birthday of the People's Republic of China is celebrated. The Chinese Government is striving for sustainable economic growth and more balanced development, with a view to unleashing huge potential and narrowing the gap between urban and rural areas and among different regions. According to Premier Li Keqiang, the Chinese economy, after registering rapid growth over the past 35 years, has entered a new stage of improving quality and performance. Strenuous efforts are being made to create impetus by deepening reforms, adjusting economic structure, and improving people's livelihood. In the meantime, Chinese leaders have expressed appreciation and admiration for the courage, perseverance and wisdom displayed by Irish people in the past few years, articulating China's confidence in Ireland's ongoing endeavour to create more jobs and enable its economy to build momentum. Ireland now hosts over 10,000 Chinese students. Both governments have recently reached an agreement on Ireland's plan to set up an Irish Consulate General in Hong Kong later this year, which, in my view, is a testament to the strength and vitality of China-Ireland relations. China is optimistic about the prospects of China-Ireland strategic partnership. Looking into the future, we are full of hope for new progress in our friendly, constructive and multi-faceted co-operative partnership. It is of particular importance for us to further tap the co-operation potential in high technology, food and agriculture, education, tourism and other priority areas and increase two-way trade and investment. Ireland and China will continue to go hand in hand, in a pursuit of common development and common prosperity. I would be honoured and gratified to witness deepening political mutual trust, further enhancing pragmatic co-operation as well as intensifying cultural and people-to-people exchanges. Irish Independent 
