china
{  
    November 04 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-week-santa-arrived-from-china-26353828.html }
In the week that saw the world's biggest cargo tanker bring 45,000 tonnes of festive goodies to Europe, John Malonelooks at the Far East's emerging super-economy Christmas has been made in China this year. Crackers, wrapping paper, greeting cards, computers, toys, trousers, shirts, DVDs players, furniture - you name it and the Chinese have probably exported it to a store near you. Santa's swag arrived in the UK this week on the 400 metre-long Emma Maersj with nearly 45,000 tonnes of goodies for the holiday season. The colossal ship, dubbed the SS Santa, is just one of many that will feed the insatiable demand for high quality, low cost goods from China throughout Europe this Christmas. The growth in imports from China has been staggering. In 1994 Ireland imported a meagre ?2.6 million worth of goods from the Far Eastern country. Last year that amount reached ?3.7 billion, according to Government figures. "There has been a influx of goods from China in pretty much all types of consumer durables," says Torlach Denihan, director of Retail Ireland. "This is down to more effective sourcing by the retail sector, which has taken advantage of the increase in free trade to bring cheaper prices to Irish consumers." The impact has been immense. "If you look over a five-year period you can see deflation right across a range of consumer goods," says Mr Denihan. "Clothes prices are down about 25pc compared to five years ago, according to the Central Statistics Office. Shoes have fallen 19pc and furniture in the order of 8pc. Electrical goods and household appliances are down by 7.2pc, and glassware and kitchen utensils down 18pc. Bicycles have had a 5pc fall in price. Not all of this is a result of goods being imported from China but they have played a key part." China's place in the global economy was cemented when it joined the World Trade Organisation in late 2001, after 15 years of tough negotiations. The People's Republic of China is now the world's fourth largest economy and is predicted to become its largest by 2020. "With the liberation of world trade it is now possible for manufacturers in China to access European markets," says Mr Denihan. "Previously there were very tight controls on their ability to export to Europe but now these restraints have been lifted. Chinese suppliers were quick to step in and meet the demand. "For example, upwards of a billion pairs of shoes are imported from China every year. This is a huge share of the market when you consider the total market in Europe is for two billion shoes." Walk into Marks & Spencer, Zara and other high street retailers and you might be surprised by the amount of the goods on show that are now sourced in China. "You will see lots of suits in stores for between ?130 and ?150 - all of these are from China," says Tom Reddy, manager of clothing outlet Denim Works. "I know Ben Sherman have some lines manufactured in China, just like a lot of brands. But many of the goods are not branded and there is no doubt that most of these are coming from China. It would be safe to say that in excess of 50pc of clothes in menswear would be now made in China. While the quality of the fabrics used may not be as high, the finish is excellent. They use top-class machines and you can tell." China has historically had a strong domestic manufacturing industry to supply its 1.3 billion the world's shopping shelves. "The problem historically has been that Chinese manufacturers could not sell their products - which were often superior and cheaper - because they did not have the necessary promotional and retail skills," says Victor Wang of the Ireland China Association. "However, over the past five to 10 years that has changed. "You now see a new type of entrepreneur in China," says Mr Wang. "They are known as 'return overseas entrepreneurs'. These are people that have studied and worked abroad and returned to China and have brought their skills and knowledge with them. The difference is that their businesses are much more creative, innovative and, importantly, have a worldview." But with the economic onslaught from the Far East reaching fever pitch, Europe's traditional manufacturing strongholds are fighting back. "China is a developing country, so all business costs are lower," says Mr Denihan. "But they are also incredibly efficient. A lot of their facilities, for example, are new. In Italy shoe factories were probably built 40 years ago. In China they are only about three years old and have the latest machinery and technology. This gives them a real advantage. 'But there has been a push back by the countries that traditionally produce these goods. They just feel they cannot cope with the competition." In 2005 the EU imposed textile quotas and this month saw a 16.5pc duty slapped on some Chinese footware. But while Europe attempts to protect its homegrown markets, it seems the march of China's economy is unstoppable. "China went through a period of economic decline over a long period," says Mr Denihan. "But it now accounts for 6pc of global economic activity. These guys had technology way before we had any in Europe. They are a very innovative nation. They invented fireworks, printing and gunpowder. China is now working its way back to occupy the number one economic spot." And while concerns remain over China's record on human rights, its move towards becoming an economic superpower is slowly seeing working conditions improve as its new factories benchmark themselves on US and European models. "You cannot compare the standard of living of the average Chinese person to that of a European or American because China is still a developing nation," says Mr Wang. "But wages in the manufacturing sector are growing at 15pc every year and employment opportunities and conditions are vastly improving for workers." The air of confidence from China is palpable. "If I stood on Grafton Street and asked people what they thought of goods from China they would probably say they were very cheap and not of good quality," says Mr Wang. "But give it 10 years and you will see people's attitudes change. According to Mr Wang and his contemporaries, the future is bright - and definitely Chinese. 
