china
{  
    February 19 2011 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/never-wear-your-green-hat-in-beijing-26706123.html }
Micheál Martin's faux pas would have made Prince Philip proud. Putting on a Chinese accent when explaining how ministers from the global superpower told him, "You Irish, very good at software" easily ranks alongside the prince's all-time gaffes. But even though his Fianna-fail moment was cringeworthy, at least his timing was impeccable. On the very day Martin's brain got stuck somewhere between Craggy Island and Fawlty Towers, the Financial Times revealed China had replaced Japan as the world's second-largest economy. The news underscored Beijing's rapidly growing global clout as it closes in fast on America's economic crown. Economists predict it will usurp the US in 10 years as the undisputed economic heavyweight champion of the world if it continues along its current growth trajectory. This shifting world economic order is highly significant for Ireland. While we have proven our ability to attract more than our fair share of business from the US, if we are to be as successful developing our relationship with China the rules are going to have to be re-written. "There is an old saying when it comes to doing business in China," says Kevin Lynch, vice-chairperson of the Ireland China Association (ICA), a voluntary organisation dedicated to promoting greater trade, economic and cultural links between the two countries. "After the first year, you think you know everything. After the second year, you are not quite so sure. And after the third year, you realise you know nothing." Ever since China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001 and opened its doors to the international business community, Ireland has been ramping up its efforts to establish stronger trade links. The Government's Asia Strategy was launched after Micheál Martin's visit to China in 1998 and reciprocal high-level political visits have heightened political and economic awareness on both sides. The strategy has been somewhat successful, with trade figures on the rise. However, as China's economy roars while ours whimpers, the ICA is urging both government and businesses to quickly ramp up their efforts. "You can't do China from your armchair," says Lynch. "You need to spend years developing business there before you can expect any success." However, there are significant cultural differences that Ireland's business leaders and politicians will have to quickly get their heads around if our blossoming relationship with China is to avoid being lost in translation. "In Ireland when we conduct meetings we sit down, hand each other our business cards and after 30 minutes or so we shake hands and we leave. In China it is much more personal," says Cathal Conaty of Conaty's Cash & Carry, who has been doing business in China for more than seven years. "When you meet and you hand over your business card you don't just hand it over with one hand," he warns. "You have to use two hands, holding the card in both corners. They receive the card in their two hands. Then, out of respect, they will look at the card for about five seconds before putting it into their pockets." Such norms are based on the teachings of Confucius, which hold age, social ranking and respect as sacred. These many small cultural differences become especially visible around the dinner table, which you can expect to visit after your first meeting with a Chinese company. "When you walk into the private room in the restaurant, the chair directly facing the door is where the person who will pay for the meal sits. "Then the most important person sits to the right side and the second most important sits to the left. This then goes right, left, right, left until you get to the workers, who will normally be over the other side of the table," says Conaty. "Then when they are tipping glasses for cheers, their word is 'gan bei'. But when you are tipping a glass with an older person you tip below their glass." Unsurprisingly, it is easy to break many of the unspoken rules and norms without even realising it. "I heard about this guy, I think he was American, who went out wearing a green hat," recalls Conaty. "He was wondering why people were looking at him dismissively, until he later found out that to wear a green hat in China signifies infidelity." The association apparently evolved because the phrase "wearing a green hat" in Chinese sounds like the word for cuckold. Also, never give a Chinese businessman a clock or a set of knives as a gift. A clock is a symbol of time running out or, in other words, impending death. Knives, and scissors, symbolise the cutting of ties -- not really the message you want to send if you are intent on forging stronger business ties. "While the cultural aspects are an issue, they can be overcome," says Kevin Lynch. "Their philosophy is not so dissimilar to the Irish. It is based around the thinking: first we become friends, then we do business." Chinese business is based upon 'guanxi' or 'relationships'. This informs the Chinese business mentality of "You scratch my back, I'll scratch yours." Therefore relationship-building is key. And it seems Ireland's efforts at guanxi are starting to pay off. Exports from Ireland to China increased 20pc in 2010 compared to 2009, continuing the upward growth in trade between the two countries. "The largest exports fall under the heading of machinery, chemicals and food," says Conaty. "Machinery comes from the likes of Dell, Intel and Microsoft. However, because Dell has relocated to Poland over the last 12 months this has dropped from €118m in 2009 to only €96m in 2010. "But then you look at chemicals and pharmaceutical products and that is really increasing. In September 2009, we exported €23m worth to China. In 2010 it went up to €62m. "The third main area is food, beverages and dairy products. We exported €8m in 2009 and €13m in 2010." China is the tenth-largest export market for Ireland, but with the opportunities in the world's second-largest economy booming, the ICA believes we need to put more energy and resources into dancing with the Dragon. Not only are there plentiful business opportunities available there but, like the US uses Ireland as a gateway to Europe, so can Chinese companies. "Ireland is a very small place and its population of four or so million is smaller than a reasonably sized city in China," says Lynch. "So the question is, 'Why are they choosing Ireland?' "The answer is that they see cultural similarities. China, like Ireland, also went from being an agricultural-based economy to a hi-tech economy in a very short space of time. "There are also similarities between the people. They are friendly and curious and they see similarities in the Irish character and are drawn to it. "The challenge is for Ireland to take advantage of this opportunity. It is not going to happen if we do the typical Irish thing of sitting back and waiting for it to happen. "At the moment I think Ireland punches above its weight in China, but that won't last forever if we let this opportunity pass." In the meantime, let's just hope the Chinese don't send Micheál Martin a set of steak knives in the post. Indo Review 
