china
{ Mehreen Khan 
    October 19 2015 12:02 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/what-do-we-really-know-about-chinas-economy-34121601.html }
The true state of China's economic fortunes remain a mystery to the world. Monday will see the latest round of official quarterly GDP statistics from Beijing's National Statistics Bureau. Economists expect they will reveal another moderate slowdown in growth to around 6.8pc - the lowest rate of expansion since the depths of the financial crisis six years ago.  Yet the government's estimates have long been dismissed as an accurate barometer of what's really going on in the Chinese economy.  "There has been a long history in China of the official GDP data understating true GDP during a boom and overstating it during a slowdown", wrote Willem Buiter in September- a former Bank of England rate-setter and influential economist at Citi.  Questions over China's "actual" rate of growth have been thrown into sharp relief after a summer of turmoil in financial markets. Sudden anxiety over a Chinese "hard-landing" left investors dumbstruck. Billions were wiped off global stock indices and authorities were forced to suspend trading to prop up equity prices.  China data-watching has now become the main driver for global economic sentiment.   In July, Chinese market ructions were sparked by weak industrial profits numbers. By August, a six-year slump in monthly manufacturing triggered the ugliest day of global trading since the depths of the financial crisis eight years ago.  "China's new export this year is fear" says Paul Gruenwald, chief Asia economist at Standard & Poor's rating agency.  "The joke with Asian analysts on China is that we don't need to forecast the actual rate of Chinese growth, we have to forecast what the Chinese authorities will say the rate will be."  But China's GDP figure remains totemic. This stems in large part from the Politburo's own fixation on annualised growth. Authorities now say they are targeting yearly expansion of "around 7pc".  Harry Wu, an economics professor at Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo, has calculated the states' GDP numbers have long played down the effects of external shocks to the economy.  His work finds that growth collapsed to a mere 0.2pc during the Asian Financial Crisis, rather than the official figure of 7.8pc. For the period from 2008-14, his readings show an average expansion of 6.1pc, rather than 8.7pc.  "Would I bet the actual growth rate is 7pc? No", says Gruenwald. "Do we have enough indicators to work out what's going on in the economy? Yes."  "The statistics are still catching up - that's part of the fun of being an Asia [analyst]...we get to put on our detective hats and do a little investigative economics."  This investigative turn has led to a proliferation in "proxy" indicators for Chinese growth. The calculations range from anything from 3pc-7pc real GDP growth in 2015.  This diversity means there is plenty to support the case for China bulls and China bears.  One gauge that has grown in popularity in recent years is the "Li Keqiang index", named after China's current premier, and revealed as his preferred measure of economic activity while serving as a senior Communist party secretary in the province of Liaoning a decade ago.  GDP numbers were merely a "man-made" and "unreliable" construct, Mr Li was quoted as saying in diplomatic cables published by Wikileaks in 2010.  Instead, he chose to focus on a trio of real economic indicators - bank lending, rail freight volumes and electricity production.  Taking their cue from the premier, economics consultancy Fathom compile the Li Index as the "true" reflection of what the Communist party's senior officials are most worried about.  It suggests the economy has come to a standstill. Growth will reach just 3pc this year, according to Fathom.  "The depths of China’s economic downturn have become almost palpable" they said.  But even the much-vaunted Li Index is not without its detractors. Heavily biased towards industrial indicators and credit growth, it has already become an outmoded way to capture economic trends when authorities are moving away from a export-driven growth model, say critics.  Arthur Kroeber, economist at Gavekal Dragonomics has described it as "quite useless".  So what are the alternatives?  Capital Economics - a London-based research firm - has been collecting its own series of indicators, dubbed the China Activity Proxy, since 2009.  Despite showing a sharp downturn at the start of the year - where GDP collapsed to around 4pc - it provides a more sanguine assessment of recent developments.  Perhaps most surprisingly, some indicators suggest China entered a deep downturn in the first half of the year on the back of a sharp contraction in lending.  This phenomena already seems to have bottomed out by the middle of 2015, as the state once again rode to the rescue to revive credit growth. GDP is now expected to rebound to 4.5pc this year, followed by 6.5pc in 2016, calculate Capital Economics.  That the world’s second largest economy and driver of global growth could have fallen in to recession without so much as a murmur, highlights the pitfalls of China-watching.  But for all the misgivings about the official numbers, economists are not yet ready to throw the baby out with the bathwater when it comes Beijing's estimates.  It would be self-defeating for authorities to produce fabricated numbers intended to pull the wool over the eyes of markets and investors, says Mark Williams, chief Asia economist, at Capital Economics.  "If {Beijing] simply made up the numbers it would be “flying blind”. What’s more, if obfuscation were the main aim, the government wouldn’t publish the wealth of data that it does", he adds.  Like many vast economies, the pitfalls of data collection and reliable local government level reporting, mean China's official statistics are always to be taken with a large pinch of salt.  But the direction of travel matches most independent analysis of where the economy is heading. Monday's figures are widely expected to show the first sub-7pc growth for the first time since March 2009.  The days of double-digit growth are long behind. China's "new normal" is here to stay. Whether that is closer to 4pc or 7pc will continue to be a mystery for a long while yet.  Telegraph.co.uk 
