china
{ Calum MacLeod in  Beijing 
    July 13 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/games-win-gives-china-its-badge-of-global-approval-26080304.html }
BEIJING'S second Olympic bid climaxed last night not in  despair like 1993, but with the biggest street party China  has seen since a million demonstrators packed ... BEIJING'S second Olympic bid climaxed last night not in despair like 1993, but with the biggest street party China has seen since a million demonstrators packed Tiananmen Square in the most hopeful days of the 1989 democracy movement. Once again, hundreds of thousands of people flocked to Tiananmen, streaming banners and flags. The Avenue of Eternal Peace was jammed with a wall of noise as cars went bumper-to-bumper, blaring horns in joy. Even the police were smiling, nervously. The Communist Party Politburo first took the applause at a heavily orchestrated event, playing to a handpicked crowd, and nationwide television audience, several miles west of Tiananmen. But before midnight President Jiang Zemin and his cronies ascended Tiananmen Gate to witness the real party raging in modern China's political heartland. Jiang witnessed a spontaneous burst of real emotion rarely seen in China's capital. Beijingers ignored the government ban on firecrackers within city limits and set off explosive celebrations. The emotional fireworks sweeping China were sparked by relief that the world's most populous nation had finally won its most coveted badge of global approval. China has followed a tortuous path to prosperity and strength, stalked by insecurity about its place in the world. But now the greatest show on earth is coming to Beijing, as a hard-won status symbol of economic achievement and growing confidence on the world stage. "This is a great day for China," smiled 23-year-old Beijing resident Zhang Baoqi, before lending his scream to the wall of sound at Tiananmen. "We feel so proud to host the Olympics. We have waited so long, but now the world has recognised our development, in the economy, sports, even human rights. This is a new era - we will show you we deserve this opportunity." The ghosts of the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre still haunted IOC voters in 1993, and gave Sydney the honour over Beijing. Delegates from 105 countries chose the Chinese capital by a majority of 56, with Toronto receiving 22, Paris 18 and Istanbul nine after Osaka was eliminated on the first round. This time the IOC gambled on a still unrepentant Communist China, ignoring the pleas of rights groups' protesting everything from genocide in Tibet to the breeding of St Bernard dogs for restaurant menus. Yet the Olympics is a gamble for China's Communists too. Beijing says its Olympic dream reflects China's "desire to become more fully integrated into the community of nations". But joining that community implies playing by global rules, and just as impending membership of the World Trade Organisation forces China to liberalise its economy, so the Olympics should open Chinese society to unprecedented scrutiny. The focus of last night's celebrations was China's winning capital, but joy spread to other cities. "Most important is that the Olympics will increase China's reputation and prestige in the world," predicted 27-year-old Chen Fanhong, an Internet enthusiast in the eastern city of Hangzhou. "When more foreigners come here, they will realise China is not as terrible as they imagined." Chen, who uses a wheelchair, also hopes that hosting the 2008 Paralympics will "teach more Chinese to treat disabled people properly, with more care and respect". The first test of improved accountability will come when China begins evicting several thousand people from the site of the planned Olympic Stadium in north Beijing. Will global scrutiny ensure they are compensated fairly and treated humanely? In 2008, sport will belong to Beijing, and businessmen are plotting Olympic-sized pay-offs. The Western multinationals that bankroll the Games are drooling at the prospect of China's much vaunted potential finally translating into billion-dollar profits. Beijing stressed a hi-tech Olympics, and it was no idle boast. By 2008 China could be the world's largest mobile phone market, with more Internet users than anywhere else. The Communist old guard may find engaging the West, as embodied in hosting a 'People's Olympics', is more than they bargained for. Yet they would rather risk Olympic boycott, and Berlin-like notoriety, than tolerate any challenge to power in the next seven years. The stage is now set for one of the most spectacular and controversial Olympics in history. * Independent News Service. 
