china
{ Colum Kenny 
    April 13 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/chinese-are-burnt-by-an-incendiary-torch-relay-26437127.html }
THE Olympics in Beijing will be great sport. Thousands of millions will enjoy the games via television. Although athletes come from countries that hate each other, and from states where human rights mean nothing, politics will be left behind after the opening ceremony. And that is how the Dalai Lama and most other people want it. But outside the stadium, politics and commerce have reared their heads as China tries to cash in on amateur sport. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) now looks naive, with IOC president Jacques Rogge looking bewildered last week. As Rogge watched his global torch relay descend into farce, he groaned and said, "I'm deeply saddened by the fact that such an important symbol has been attacked." But what he and his IOC failed to grasp at the outset was that China was always going to use the torch relay to bolster its own image in the world. Warning signs were there last year, long before the global relay began. Taiwanese officials refused to host the torch because Beijing wanted them to be part of the internal domestic Chinese relay. Beijing was also trying to control what flags, emblems and songs might be used. Taiwan has an uneasy relationship with mainland China and jealously guards its unique form of self-rule. The island wished to be part of the international relay but Beijing was having none of it. So no torch for Taiwan, in an early political decision by the host country of the Olympics. Not that mixing politics with the torch relay is something new. The whole gimmick of running with the flame only began in 1936, for the Berlin Olympics. That relay run was portrayed as a sign of Aryan strength and beauty as Nazis sought to impress people with their particular world-view. Before then, the Olympic flame was confined to the stadium. China today wants to impress people with an image of China as a modern thrusting economy. It is spending vast sums on fine Olympic facilities while many of its own people live in abject poverty. And it is fiercely trying to control its image while the world's spotlight comes into focus on Beijing. Already, promises that foreign journalists would be allowed to move freely within China and that the internet would not be controlled have been extensively broken. Beijing is busy jailing dissidents. China gambled on foreign governments not wishing to offend it. For years, Beijing has welcomed a long line of western politicians who mouth platitudes about human rights but then queue up for Chinese contracts. Understandably, China came to believe that passive contempt was the appropriate response. Last week, Ireland's foreign minister claimed, with little evidence of success to support him, that private one-to-one dialogue with Chinese officials can achieve significant change. Dermot Ahern told RTE's Primetime: "We have to deal with China in the long term. And we may make a decision, you know, a bit like a hissy fit -- No we won't go to the opening ceremony -- and then find that the Chinese will turn their back and not engage with us". So what has changed since Ahern's predecessor, Frank Aiken, loudly attacked the Chinese invasion of Tibet in the 1950s? Aiken then said, "The sympathy of the Irish people going to the victims of imperialism is nothing new. It goes out to the people of Tibet in their present suffering as it did in the past." What changed, of course, is that Ireland is now far wealthier and trades extensively with China. But other realities bubbled to the surface last week. It became clearer that China's boom is built partly on the suppression of its own people. They enjoy few if any human rights. China combines the worst of rampant capitalism with an old-style dictatorship that still purports, ridiculously in the circumstances, to be communist. Mired in environmental chaos and growing corruption, the Chinese economy may yet transpire to be more bubble than boom. Meanwhile, Beijing is stepping up its efforts to exploit the natural resources of Tibet, and Tibetan culture is being pushed towards extinction. Tibetans fear that they may face a future like some of the big native American tribes who ended up decimated and living on reservations. Yet Tibet has one of the richest religious heritages in the world. And still the Tibetan leader urges dialogue and peace. The Dalai Lama insists that he wants liberty for his people but not separation from China. He also shares the sentiments of Jacques Rogge of the IOC, who said last week, "We recognize the right for people to protest and express their views, but it should be non-violent." While there was something almost comic about the sight of western protesters grappling with Chinese officials over the relay torch last week, the Tibetan government-in-exile has conducted itself with greater dignity during the past five decades of misery for Tibetans. And now the Joint Oireachtas Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided to invite the Dalai Lama to cross the Irish Sea to meet it during his forthcoming visit to the UK. The committee will also raise with Dermot Ahern the question of opening an EU office in Lhasa, capital of Tibet. While deputies did not agree on whether or not the Irish government should boycott the symbolic opening ceremony in Beijing, they are clearly unhappy at China's response to Ireland's quiet diplomacy. China is in breach of its own constitution in respect of various minorities within China. Not only Tibetans, but also Muslims and other peoples, are being denied rights that the Chinese constitution appears to guarantee them. One must be sceptical about Beijing's claims of terrorist plots. China's heavy-handedness had its own global symbol last week, in the form of grim, blue-clad Chinese guards who flanked the Olympic torch wherever it went. But when the flame eventually reaches Tibet itself, on its relay inside China, it will no longer be merely an expression of the Olympic spirit. It will have become also the symbol of a burning desire for liberty in Tibet. 
