china
{ Joe Brennan 
    February 07 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/tigers-entering-the-dragon-lair-26421670.html }
Stretching three and a half miles, Nanjing Road in Shanghai is the world's longest shopping street -- and one of the busiest. Flanked by some 600 businesses -- ranging from ubiquitous KFC and McDonald's outlets, to local shops for silk and jade, and upmarket department stores housing the likes of Fendi and Prada -- the street lures 800,000 visitors on a quiet day, about 10 times as many as throng Dublin's Grafton Street. The cold snap that has hit eastern China in recent weeks hasn't affected its indefatigable street-sellers, who'd think nothing of accompanying you down a block as they seek to peddle all manner of tat and fake Gucci handbags. "I give you good price," they say as they sidle up to their next Western target. Home to over 18 million people, 3,000 skyscrapers -- almost all built since 1990 -- and the world's fastest train, Shanghai is China's industrial, financial and commercial engine room. It has also been home for the last two years to Richard Barrett, co-owner of Irish property group Treasury Holdings. He's come to learn the importance of getting to know the political landscape and developing a repertoire of karaoke belters to striking a deal, Shanghai-style. The fruits of his crooning are largely contained in a €850m property portfolio held by London-listed China Real Estate Opportunities (CREO), which was spun off last July from Treasury-controlled Real Estate Holdings. They consist of three retail and office complexes in central Shanghai; a logistics park site near Beijing airport; and a 50pc stake in a project to develop a €480m marina-based residential, leisure and retail resort at the location of this year's Olympic sailing events in Tangdao Bay, south east of Beijing. And then there is a substantial pipeline, including Treasury's co-development of a €1.2bn "eco city" on an island 26 miles off the Shanghai. It will take 15 years to complete and its joint venture partner, as in the Tangdao Bay project, is Chinese state-owned Shanghai Industrial Investment Corporation (SIIC). "We're following the infrastructure roll-out in China," said Richard David, managing director of Treasury's Chinese operations. And the demand for infrastructure is unprecedented. The accelerated pace of industrialisation of China in recent decades has driven the most massive move of people in history from rural to urban areas. In a country of over 1.3 billion people, some 44pc of the population -- or 577 million Chinese -- now live in towns and cities, compared to 35pc in 2000 and 27pc in 1990. The Chinese authorities plan to urbanise a further 150 million within the next decade. "The massive rural-to-urban migration that has accompanied China's rapid industrialisation and consequent reallocation of labour from low-productivity agriculture to the much higher value-added manufacturing sector, is producing enormous gains in productivity," according to Tu Packard, a senior economist at Moody's Economy.com. China's economy has grown at an average pace of 10pc a year since 1978, when former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping initiated a series of economic and political reforms that led to the opening of the market. The economy grew by 11.4pc last year -- its fastest since 1994 -- and is on the cusp of overtaking Germany as the world's third largest, after America and Japan. It is expected to surpass the other two powerhouses within the next two decades. Treasury is one of the biggest foreign developers in the country, eager to capitalise on China's growth over the past few decades and the spending power of the offspring of a one-child regime indulged by parents and two sets of grandparents. "They're the number two consumers of luxury goods globally (after Japan)," said David, who is intent on pushing CREO's retail space increasingly upmarket through refurbishment. Treasury is committed to making China account for a third of its activities within the next three years -- one of the boldest declarations of intent by an Irish company in China to date. Building materials giant CRH is taking a more cautious approach, despite criticism from investors about its small exposure to emerging markets. Last week, the largest group on the Irish stock market unveiled the €200m acquisition of a 26pc stake in Shanghai-listed Jilin Yatai's cement operations across two northeastern Chinese provinces. The figure is tiny in the scale of CRH's recent €2bn annual spending spree on deals globally, but it has the option to increase its stake to 49pc after four years. CRH first dipped its toe in the Chinese market early last year, with a cement plant in the same region. CRH is the only foreign-owned cement operator in an area the size of France that has a gross domestic product (GDP) of $114bn (€77bn). Industry observers expect to see more chunky deals from the company in China over the coming years. "This is positive for CRH as it expects to reap benefits from the long-term growth potential and consolidation of the cement industry in the region," said John Sheehan, an analyst with NCB Stockbrokers. Analysts at Davy estimate the group only derived 15pc of its sales from emerging markets before this deal. Forever on the lookout for new frontiers, green energy evangelist Eddie O'Connor and his team at Airtricity, the wind farm group, spotted the potential of China earlier this decade. O'Connor announced his resignation last week ahead of the completion of Scottish & Southern Energy's €2.2bn acquisition of the group next month, but China remains on Airtricity's agenda. "With power consumption growing 15pc a year, the Chinese are developing about 105,000 megawatts (MW) -- the equivalent of 20 times the complete Irish electricity system -- every year," said Mark Ennis, Airtricity's director of strategy and public policy. "They originally targeted for 5,000MW of renewable energy -- about the size of the Irish system -- by 2010, but hit that target last year and doubled it to 10,000." From an shiny new office in the Fortune Plaza complex in Beijing's central business district, Airtricity is executing a two-pronged approach to China: to procure new wind turbine suppliers as western sources continue to ratchet up prices amid soaring demand; and to develop wind farms in the new market. Airtricity has just struck a deal to install three turbines built by Xinjiang-based Goldwind in Scotland this year -- marking the first such transaction between a western wind farm group and a Chinese turbine manufacturer. "We're one of the first foreign companies in the [renewable energy] marketplace in China, where we've got a pipeline of 7,000MW of wind farms in development," said Ennis. The focus is on the windy provinces of Hebei, which wraps around the municipality of Beijing, and Inner Mongolia, the next region to the north, bordering the Republic of Mongolia. "We'll start construction this year of a 50MW wind farm, which should be up and running in 2009. We also plan to commence a 100MW wind farm next year," said Ennis. The main challenge facing wind operators in China is the existing two-tariff system, where the return on large wind farms is hardly worth the effort. However, a higher tariff on smaller wind farms will make Airtricity's projects profitable. Operators can trade lucrative carbon credits -- and boost their returns -- if they are majority-owned by a local partner. Airtricity is close to joining forces with local players but is likely to structure a deal in a way that it maintains control over the business. Dubliner Deirdre Walsh spent a number of years in Shanghai working for an international financial services company before returning home a few years ago to set up ChinaGreen.ie, which is aimed at helping Irish small and medium-sized enterprises do business and find partners there. "Having the right partner is hugely important. It's all about relationships in China. If you're thinking of going it alone out there, it's just not going to happen," said Walsh. "The business culture out there makes it very difficult to actually know how you're getting on. People may be saying all the right things, but your local partner can decipher the real picture." Louth-based domestic heating giant Glen Dimplex has long sourced components for its four manufacturing plants in Ireland, which employ 2,500 people. But it set up a joint venture in 2003 in northeastern China called Shenyang Dimplex Electronics to manufacture storage heaters, fireplaces and other heating products for the growing local market. "We don't get involved in the culture of China because we don't understand it and never will understand. That is the responsibility of our partner companies in China," group chief executive Sean O'Driscoll told a conference in Dublin last year. Foreign companies looking to break into the "dragon economy" must show commitment, according to Walsh. "The Chinese can pick out people who are out to make a quick buck. Treasury, for example, has shown huge commitment with Richard Barrett actually moving out there." Kerry Group, which first dipped its toes in the Chinese market in 1999, seems to have had no problems going it alone. "It's a market that's progressing very well for us. It's a market we've taken a gradual, long-term view on and is part of a very strong Asia Pacific business that's growing in double-digit numbers," said Frank Hayes, group director of corporate affairs. Kerry does not give a breakdown for China in its results. A number of Kerry's global customers are expanding rapidly in China, including Starbucks, which it supplies with coffee syrups. The founder and boss of the coffee chain Howard Schultz's ambition to have a Starbucks on every street corner has been taken to heart in China. It occupies space in two of Treasury's three complexes in Shanghai alone. Western companies would do well, however, to leave many of their views on how things should work at home. China is, after all, still a communist country. Developers like Treasury can only acquire what are essentially the leasehold rights for land for periods that range from 40 years (for commercial use) to 70 years (for residential). While there is no mechanism in place, as yet, for the roll-over of leases, the government said last year that it will move to address this issue. While other Irish companies such as food group Glanbia, mobile software developer Puca Technologies and Shannon-based industrial diamond processor Element Six, also have small presences in China, Barrett is surprised that the market remains off the radar of a lot of large Irish companies. "There are advantages, temporarily at least, for us in being among the first out here," he said. "Most of the other Irish companies in China are in education or have outsourced here. "Ireland has been at the forefront of the rush towards America and Eastern Europe, but it hasn't taken to China yet. Ireland needs to get out here." 
