china
{ Taoiseach Bertie Ahern 
    January 17 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/opening-up-new-windows-of-opportunity-in-a-vast-market-26004243.html }
TODAY I begin my second official visit to China and Hong Kong - leading an Enterprise Ireland trade mission of 121 Irish companies, the largest Irish trade mission ever to an international market. It is, indeed, a good indication of the interest among Irish companies in the Chinese market. The trade mission is organised by Enterprise Ireland which has offices in Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Guangzhou. The mission will target new business opportunities particularly in software and telecommunications, education services, environmental and engineering services, and other sectors. Our key aims during the visit will be to increase Irish trade and investment interests in China/Hong Kong and to raise awareness of Ireland as a quality source of goods and services. This is in line with the Government's Asia Strategy, which has been in place since 1999 and has contributed in a significant way to the development of our relations with China and other Asian countries. China has a population of 1.3 billion people, and represents a massive market by any standard. Trade between Ireland and China/Hong Kong is currently worth ?4 billion a year with a strong balance in China's favour. Irish exports to China are estimated to have increased by 27pc in 2004. More than 250 Irish companies are currently doing business in China and Hong Kong, and many have well-established partnerships and business alliances with local companies. China is now one of the most sought-after trading partners in the world. Many other EU countries, as well as non-EU countries, have been developing bilateral economic relations with China over the past few years. I am determined to ensure that Ireland will substantially grow the level of two-way trade between our two countries. Ireland's commitment to strengthen links with China and Hong Kong is further underlined by the fact that I will be accompanied by four Government Ministers: Micheal Martin, TD, Minister for Enterprise Trade and Employment; Mary Coughlan, TD, Minister for Agriculture and Food; Mary Hanafin, TD, Minister for Education and Science; and Noel Dempsey, TD, Minister for Communications, Marine and Natural Resources. We are proud of the fact that a comparatively small country like Ireland has the capability to offer world-class products and services to the world's largest marketplace. Enterprise Ireland has been actively prospecting for business opportunities in China with Irish companies over the last three years and I anticipate that a number of significant business contracts will be concluded over the course of this visit. I have been watching China's dynamic economic growth and recent accession to the WTO, together with the Chinese government's drive to reform the state sector, its privatisation programme, and the massive investment being made to develop the northwest and western regions. All of this offers excellent business opportunities for Irish companies. Some of the major opportunity areas for Irish companies in China are related to the modernisation of China's infrastructure and the large scale of foreign direct investment. A large proportion of expenditure is focused on high technology and capital intensive projects, such as communications, energy supply, transport and information technology. Irish companies can supply software services, environmental technology, communications and energy supply, electronic components and equipment and engineering products and many are already active in the Chinese market. Ireland and China also have a constructive political relationship. I welcome the fact that our dialogue with China both on a bilateral level and at EU level, now addresses a wide range of issues. One of these is of course the promotion of human rights. I recognise the efforts of the Chinese authorities to move towards greater recognition of individual rights and freedoms, particularly in the economic sphere. I am conscious that China is a vast country with an enormous population. As a political leader who has presided over many developments here in Ireland in recent years, I am aware that managing change is a delicate process. I will be having further dialogue with the Chinese leadership on the human rights issue during my visit, and will encourage them to complete the journey they have already embarked upon. Finally, education links between our two countries have seen remarkable growth. Here in Ireland we have a respected and high quality English language educational system. We have third-level institutes that offer first-class opportunities for further and continuing education, research, vocational training and technological skills development. We have therefore seen a dramatic increase, not only in student numbers but also in strategic alliances between world-class Chinese and Irish universities. I am happy to see that a number of these are currently collaborating on research projects, student and professor exchanges and franchising of teaching programmes. I look forward to a productive visit, and feel confident that it will bear fruit in the immediate and medium term. 
