china
{ Malcolm Moore and Matthew Holehouse 
    April 12 2012 09:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/malcolm-moore-and-matthew-holehouse-the-rise-and-fall-of-chinas-golden-couple-26842287.html }
The investigation into the death of the Briton Neil Heywood has unlocked a tale of corruption at the heart of the ruling elite. Rising up on the steep hills above the Yangtze river, its grimy skyscrapers shrouded in fog, Chongqing is China’s Gotham City. More than 30?million people live here, spread out across an area 50 times the size of London. And ruling over them all, until last month, was a couple as hungry for power and money as any in China’s long history. Bo Xilai, 62, believed he could one day become China’s paramount ruler. His second wife, Gu Kailai, a beautiful and driven 54-year-old lawyer, had her own nickname: Lady Macbeth. Today, both are under house arrest. If history is any guide to how the Communist party treats former leaders, Mr Bo is unlikely ever to be seen in public again. Their 24-year-old son Bo Guagua, a Harvard student, has gone into hiding. Once a playboy who cavorted around Beijing in a red Ferrari, he may now need protection from the United States. The silver bullet that removed them was the death of Neil Heywood, a 41-year-old Old Harrovian and family friend, in a hotel room in Chongqing last November. Arriving in China in the 1990s, the impeccably dressed Mr Heywood, who drove a silver S-class Jaguar and imported classic Aston Martins for China’s new rich, had written to Mr Bo and offered his services as a consultant. He was quickly brought into the family fold, a foreigner who could help the internationally minded Bos send their son to Britain for a public school education. The relationship delivered wealth to Mr Heywood: he had a spacious home in a luxurious gated compound in the north of Beijing. But in recent months, he confided to one friend that his friendship with the Bos had soured, after someone in their inner circle “briefed against him”. In the murky world where politics and business collide, no one knows what happened next, until his body was found last year, on Mr Bo’s turf in Chongqing. As more details begin to emerge about the Bos, a picture is forming of a couple who were so giddy with power, and so eager to amass wealth, that they believed they were above the law. They were out of control, but so well-connected that they become a threat to the very top of the party. Mr Bo and his wife, Mrs Gu, were “Red Aristocracy”, the children of party heroes. Mr Bo’s father stood first beside Chairman Mao and then Deng Xiaoping, as one of the party’s “elders”. Mrs Gu’s father was a general in the People’s Liberation Army. The official propaganda that its leaders live modestly, true to the Communist party’s origins as a movement of workers and farmers, fools no one in China. Mr Bo and Mrs Gu grew up in luxurious compounds and were groomed from a young age for the top. By the time they arrived in Chongqing in 2007, they were almost there. Mr Bo, a journalism graduate, demonstrated a flair for publicity that marked him out in a country of dour technocrats. Immediately, he announced that he would clean up the city, which for generations had been run by criminal gangs. He recruited the “iron-fisted” Wang Lijun, a police chief he had worked with before, to “smash the black”. In just 10 months, almost 5,000 people were arrested: low-level hoods, godfathers, and the police officers, lawyers and judges who helped the mafia flourish. The head of the city’s justice department, who was found to have buried almost £2? million under his fish pond, was shot. According to her husband, Mrs Gu sustained him throughout, lending Mr Bo the value of her legal nous. Partly as a result, an identity cult flourished around Mr Bo. In the early days, there was nothing but praise for his efforts to stem corruption. But new evidence shows that the couple also deployed the police force to attack their rivals and enemies. Victims were framed, confessions extracted through torture, and defence lawyers imprisoned. Tong Zhiwei, a law professor at East China Political Science and Law University, sent researchers to the city last summer to compile a report. “I did it because I thought what was happening in Chongqing was contradictory to the law, and we needed to research it and report to central leaders,” he explains. What he found was a police chief who had become a bagman for the Bos: “The torture and the illegal methods of handling cases all point to Wang Lijun.” While it was Mr Heywood’s death that prompted the couple’s fall, central government had become deeply worried about what was going on far earlier. The turning point came almost a year ago, when Li Zhuang, a lawyer defending one of Chongqing’s accused, was himself put on trial and imprisoned. That was the moment, says Prof Tong, after which Beijing began to issue its own orders inside Chongqing’s criminal justice system. “My case was the Waterloo in this war,” says Mr Li. “Because it struck terror into the legal community.” The Bos’ real aim, according to Mr Li, was to enrich themselves and their supporters. “In every case, at the end, they confiscated the assets of the defendants. Some had millions, others billions. That was the point of it all.” Meanwhile, Mrs Gu was busy with her own businesses, even though Mr Bo claimed she had retired from the law to become a housewife. She was a noted musician, playing the pipa, a pear-shaped four-stringed Chinese instrument. But according to several sources, she was also running her own law firm, Ang Dao, which put clients in touch with China’s most senior leaders. “She never left the industry. Her connections and relations remained pretty influential,” says a lawyer who worked with her, who declined to be named. The couple became fabulously wealthy, and investigations into their finances are under way. As Chinese commentators drily pointed out yesterday, their “economic dispute” with Mr Heywood, listed as a motive for his death by government investigators, would not have been over a small sum of money. Their son, Guagua, whose name means “Melon Melon” in Chinese, was schooled at Papplewick, Harrow and Oxford. His contemporaries remember him as living a life of utmost privilege, a boy who was “very ambitious and keen to please in a slightly naive way”. By the end of his first term at Oxford, he had won the Union a £20,000 sponsorship deal from Brilliance Auto, a Chinese car company. Later, he was asked to leave his college rooms for endlessly smoking a shisha pipe. He promptly moved into a suite at the Randolph Hotel. When he ran for Librarian at the Union, a spoof student publication noted it was an unusual ambition for a man with such a “strained relationship with books”. His entry read: “Mr Bo’s notoriety is sufficient to have spawned a verb: Guagua v.//coll: To seize power through a combination of smooth pleasantries, overwhelming financial might, and the uncertain knowledge of what will happen to your family if you fail to please him.” Guagua was sent down for not working hard enough, but apparently sat his exams afterwards and was eventually awarded a degree. At Harrow, he was said to have gone out on “big-spending club nights in London” and not to have been punished when caught. “Other students would have been expelled or suspended. He was untouchable,” says one contemporary. Indeed, until February, the entire family seemed untouchable, shielded by their friends at the top of the party and, importantly, the People’s Liberation Army. But then, out of the blue, Wang Lijun tried to defect to the United States after falling out with Mr Bo. He has now disappeared into custody in Beijing. It is not clear why the men fell out but, as Prof Tong notes, Mr Wang had served as a policeman his entire life. “If he felt threatened [by Mr Bo], it is unlikely that he was being over-sensitive.” As a parting gesture, he armed Mr Bo’s enemies with what could turn out to be the final piece they need to bring him down: the revelation of Mr Heywood’s murder. Rising up on the steep hills above the Yangtze river, its grimy skyscrapers shrouded in fog, Chongqing is China’s Gotham City. More than 30?million people live here, spread out across an area 50 times the size of London. And ruling over them all, until last month, was a couple as hungry for power and money as any in China’s long history. Bo Xilai, 62, believed he could one day become China’s paramount ruler. His second wife, Gu Kailai, a beautiful and driven 54-year-old lawyer, had her own nickname: Lady Macbeth. Today, both are under house arrest. If history is any guide to how the Communist party treats former leaders, Mr Bo is unlikely ever to be seen in public again. Their 24-year-old son Bo Guagua, a Harvard student, has gone into hiding. Once a playboy who cavorted around Beijing in a red Ferrari, he may now need protection from the United States. The silver bullet that removed them was the death of Neil Heywood, a 41-year-old Old Harrovian and family friend, in a hotel room in Chongqing last November. Arriving in China in the 1990s, the impeccably dressed Mr Heywood, who drove a silver S-class Jaguar and imported classic Aston Martins for China’s new rich, had written to Mr Bo and offered his services as a consultant. He was quickly brought into the family fold, a foreigner who could help the internationally minded Bos send their son to Britain for a public school education. The relationship delivered wealth to Mr Heywood: he had a spacious home in a luxurious gated compound in the north of Beijing. But in recent months, he confided to one friend that his friendship with the Bos had soured, after someone in their inner circle “briefed against him”. In the murky world where politics and business collide, no one knows what happened next, until his body was found last year, on Mr Bo’s turf in Chongqing. As more details begin to emerge about the Bos, a picture is forming of a couple who were so giddy with power, and so eager to amass wealth, that they believed they were above the law. They were out of control, but so well-connected that they become a threat to the very top of the party. Mr Bo and his wife, Mrs Gu, were “Red Aristocracy”, the children of party heroes. Mr Bo’s father stood first beside Chairman Mao and then Deng Xiaoping, as one of the party’s “elders”. Mrs Gu’s father was a general in the People’s Liberation Army. The official propaganda that its leaders live modestly, true to the Communist party’s origins as a movement of workers and farmers, fools no one in China. Mr Bo and Mrs Gu grew up in luxurious compounds and were groomed from a young age for the top. By the time they arrived in Chongqing in 2007, they were almost there. Mr Bo, a journalism graduate, demonstrated a flair for publicity that marked him out in a country of dour technocrats. Immediately, he announced that he would clean up the city, which for generations had been run by criminal gangs. He recruited the “iron-fisted” Wang Lijun, a police chief he had worked with before, to “smash the black”. In just 10 months, almost 5,000 people were arrested: low-level hoods, godfathers, and the police officers, lawyers and judges who helped the mafia flourish. The head of the city’s justice department, who was found to have buried almost £2? million under his fish pond, was shot. According to her husband, Mrs Gu sustained him throughout, lending Mr Bo the value of her legal nous. Partly as a result, an identity cult flourished around Mr Bo. In the early days, there was nothing but praise for his efforts to stem corruption. But new evidence shows that the couple also deployed the police force to attack their rivals and enemies. Victims were framed, confessions extracted through torture, and defence lawyers imprisoned. Tong Zhiwei, a law professor at East China Political Science and Law University, sent researchers to the city last summer to compile a report. “I did it because I thought what was happening in Chongqing was contradictory to the law, and we needed to research it and report to central leaders,” he explains. What he found was a police chief who had become a bagman for the Bos: “The torture and the illegal methods of handling cases all point to Wang Lijun.” While it was Mr Heywood’s death that prompted the couple’s fall, central government had become deeply worried about what was going on far earlier. The turning point came almost a year ago, when Li Zhuang, a lawyer defending one of Chongqing’s accused, was himself put on trial and imprisoned. That was the moment, says Prof Tong, after which Beijing began to issue its own orders inside Chongqing’s criminal justice system. “My case was the Waterloo in this war,” says Mr Li. “Because it struck terror into the legal community.” The Bos’ real aim, according to Mr Li, was to enrich themselves and their supporters. “In every case, at the end, they confiscated the assets of the defendants. Some had millions, others billions. That was the point of it all.” Meanwhile, Mrs Gu was busy with her own businesses, even though Mr Bo claimed she had retired from the law to become a housewife. She was a noted musician, playing the pipa, a pear-shaped four-stringed Chinese instrument. But according to several sources, she was also running her own law firm, Ang Dao, which put clients in touch with China’s most senior leaders. “She never left the industry. Her connections and relations remained pretty influential,” says a lawyer who worked with her, who declined to be named. The couple became fabulously wealthy, and investigations into their finances are under way. As Chinese commentators drily pointed out yesterday, their “economic dispute” with Mr Heywood, listed as a motive for his death by government investigators, would not have been over a small sum of money. Their son, Guagua, whose name means “Melon Melon” in Chinese, was schooled at Papplewick, Harrow and Oxford. His contemporaries remember him as living a life of utmost privilege, a boy who was “very ambitious and keen to please in a slightly naive way”. By the end of his first term at Oxford, he had won the Union a £20,000 sponsorship deal from Brilliance Auto, a Chinese car company. Later, he was asked to leave his college rooms for endlessly smoking a shisha pipe. He promptly moved into a suite at the Randolph Hotel. When he ran for Librarian at the Union, a spoof student publication noted it was an unusual ambition for a man with such a “strained relationship with books”. His entry read: “Mr Bo’s notoriety is sufficient to have spawned a verb: Guagua v.//coll: To seize power through a combination of smooth pleasantries, overwhelming financial might, and the uncertain knowledge of what will happen to your family if you fail to please him.” Guagua was sent down for not working hard enough, but apparently sat his exams afterwards and was eventually awarded a degree. At Harrow, he was said to have gone out on “big-spending club nights in London” and not to have been punished when caught. “Other students would have been expelled or suspended. He was untouchable,” says one contemporary. Indeed, until February, the entire family seemed untouchable, shielded by their friends at the top of the party and, importantly, the People’s Liberation Army. But then, out of the blue, Wang Lijun tried to defect to the United States after falling out with Mr Bo. He has now disappeared into custody in Beijing. It is not clear why the men fell out but, as Prof Tong notes, Mr Wang had served as a policeman his entire life. “If he felt threatened [by Mr Bo], it is unlikely that he was being over-sensitive.” As a parting gesture, he armed Mr Bo’s enemies with what could turn out to be the final piece they need to bring him down: the revelation of Mr Heywood’s murder. 
