china
{ Hamish McRae 
    June 23 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/is-chinas-economic-boom-losing-its-way-25911639.html }
THE new concern is China. Now of course people have been concerned for many months about the many facets of the China boom: the loss of manufacturing jobs, the impact on commodity prices, the reality that China will soon become the third and then the second largest economy in the world, and so on. But in the past few weeks these long-standing general worries have been overlaid by a new specific one: is there going to be a sudden slowdown and, if so, what are the consequences for the rest of the world? To get this into perspective, the Chinese economy has been growing at about 8pc a year for the past decade. But that was from a low base. Even 10 years ago it was still relatively small compared with the economies of the main developed countries so it did not have huge impact on the rest of the world. That is no longer true. You have to take comparative GDP figures with a bit of caution - should you use purchasing power parity or market exchange rates, for example - but it looks very much as though China will pass Britain either this year or next to become the fourth-largest economy in the world. That is at market rates; on some other calculations, China is already the second-largest economy. Last year it added about one-third of the world's incremental growth, growth that has been largely responsible for pushing up commodity prices and the oil price. So China has been exporting both deflation (through lower goods prices) and inflation (though higher raw material prices) to the rest of the world. The growth has come very much from investment. Yes of course there has been a consumer boom too, but the startling aspect of the boom is investment. This accounts for nearly half of GDP and has shot up in the last couple of years. Anyone who has been to Shanghai recently, as I have a couple of times in the past few months, sees the visible sign of this investment in the soaring new buildings. China last year added as much new electricity generating capacity as the entire electricity output of the UK. But there are widespread concerns that this boom has to be curbed. One reason is rising inflation which is now nudging towards 5pc, supposedly the trigger for sterner action by the authorities - it reached 4.4pc in May. This is largely the result of agricultural shortages - the price of consumer goods in the shops is, I understand, still falling. So maybe the action will not have to be too dramatic. Opinions differ. For example, Capital Economics, the boutique economic advisers in London, are not too concerned. They point to the fact that, food, apart, prices are only rising by about 1pc a year. A rather less sanguine view comes from HSBC financial house. The China team there thinks that the efforts to curb investment will succeed but will overshoot. In the early 1990s there was a similar investment bubble and that there will need to be two years of sub-trend growth, as there was then, to allow the rest of the economy to catch up. That may not cause a domestic recession but it will have a big impact on the rest of the world. It is quite possible that both views are right. The boom will be curbed successfully but there will still be a big impact on the rest of us. There is huge pent-up consumer demand and that will support overall growth. And China, as the lowest-cost manufacturer in the world, will continue to add market share. It is about to pass Japan in the world export league. The increase in oil demand came in part from the energy needs of the construction industry and from motor transport. China produces more than half the world's cement.According to some estimates, China will be the world's largest car market in about 10 years' time. This gives a profile of China's impact on the oil price in the coming months. If construction does indeed slow sharply, the country's demand for energy will fall too. Cement, steel and the trucks to move them around all use a lot of energy. But in the medium-term, the pressure on resources, and in particular the oil price, will remain as strong as ever. My own instinct is that China is quite close to a bump in its growth path, maybe analogous to that of the late 1980s slowdown. Whenever growth feels unstoppable, you should start to feel twitchy. One final thought. There is an implicit assumption now that the world is securely on an upward path in interest rates and that the peak is still some way off. I would particularly not quarrel with that. But now think of the impact of China. Suppose Chinese demand for commodities falls sharply, as it surely will, yet Chinese output of manufactures carries on growing, as it probably will. Then China will cease to export inflation to the world (through higher commodity prices) but continue to export deflation (through lower export prices). That sounds to me as though China will become an even bigger deflationary force in the world. 
