china
{ Wang Ying and John Liu 
    May 19 2008 12:42 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/sichuan-companies-incur-96-billion-losses-on-quake-26447409.html }
Companies in China's Sichuan province may have incurred 67 billion yuan ($9.6 billion) of losses after the southwestern region was hit last week by the nation's strongest earthquake in 58 years. The 7.9-magnitude quake affected 14,207 industrial companies in the province, the Ministry of Industry and Information said in Beijing today. Bank of China Ltd. has reported losses, and the quake damaged and forced aluminum and zinc smelters to shut. The damages, while equal to less than 0.5 percent of China's 2007 gross domestic product, may contribute to inflation near a 12-year high by pushing up prices of materials needed for reconstruction. China began three days of national mourning today for the quake, which killed at least 34,000 people and devastated an area larger than South Korea. ``The real upside risk for the overall economy is inflation as the reconstruction in Sichuan eats up building materials,'' Ben Simpfendorfer, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in Hong Kong. Rising building demand in China and higher costs have already driven up commodities prices. The average domestic price of rebar steel, used in construction, is up 55 percent in the past year, and global copper prices reached a record this year. China's inflation rose 8.5 percent in April from a year earlier. The government didn't say how it arrived at the figure for the ``economic losses.'' Gansu Losses Sichuan, the ninth-biggest provincial contributor to China's economy, accounted for 864 billion yuan of the economy in 2006, according to the latest data from the national statistics bureau. Guangdong province, the biggest contributor, accounted for 2.6 trillion yuan. Companies in Chongqing municipality face losses of 123 million yuan and mining and industrial enterprises in Gansu province had 180 million yuan of losses, the ministry said. Two zinc smelters with 110,000 metric tons of capacity in Gansu will stay shut this month, an official said May 16. The earthquake caused 15 billion yuan of damage to roads in Sichuan, Dai Dongchang, head of the roads department of the Ministry of Transport, said in an online broadcast today. Bank of China, the nation's third-biggest bank, said it had as much as 160 million yuan of losses as of May 18 after the quake disrupted data networks and damaged buildings. Agricultural Bank of China, which operates 31,000 outlets nationwide, may lose 8.5 billion yuan related to loans made to power, manufacturing and real estate industries. Production Halted Lafarge SA, the world's biggest cement maker, may need at least a month to resume output at its largest plant in China, located in the city of Dujiangyan in Sichuan province, Ge Guanjun, vice general manager of the plant, said today. The factory can produce 3 million tons of cement a year. Sichuan Changhong Electric Co., China's second-biggest television maker, had to suspend production at its factory in Mianyang, Sichuan province until today. Dongfang Electric Corp., China's second-biggest power-equipment maker, said May 15 that the quake damaged factories accounting for 20 percent of sales. Oil & Electricity PetroChina Co., China's biggest oil company, resumed fuel distribution to the worst-hit areas of Sichuan province today. Eight filling stations near the epicenter resumed operations yesterday, according to parent China National Petroleum Corp. China has also restored 80 percent of the electricity supply to Sichuan, with 85 percent of the power facilities damaged by the quake having been fixed, Gu Junyuan, chief engineer for the China Electricity Regulatory Commission, said in Beijing today. Chinese banks have offered 2.99 billion yuan of loans for reconstruction work as of noon today, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said. (Bloomberg) 
