china
{  
    February 26 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/marc-coleman-chinese-medicine-a-sure-cure-for-unemployment-and-stagnation-26825678.html }
THIS month began the Chinese year of the Dragon and last week a rather big one landed at Shannon Airport. Silent and subtle, China's influence on the world is hidden, but huge. For hundreds of thousands of indebted and unemployed citizens, the Celtic Tiger is also well hidden from view. But not dead. Crouching perhaps, but alive. As Chinese astrology predicts for the Tiger this year: "If negative ways of thinking can be dropped, great moments will be given." Barack Obama is to lower the US rate of corporation tax. Hopefully it won't undermine the vital presence of US multinationals here. But nothing can be taken for granted, and although the US will always be Ireland's number one friend, we need new friends too. With export growth at 2.4 per cent and with Ernst & Young listing us as the world's second most open economy, our external economy is certainly far from crouching. Strong friendship with the US and UK and our status as the only English-speaking eurozone country, and as a beacon in turning our fiscal crisis around, is also straightening our back on the world stage. If it can impress dragons, it can also butter parsnips. What comfort is this for the unemployed and indebted? Simply this: the best medicine for jobs and growth right now is Chinese medicine. China's 8.5 per cent growth rate and 1.2 billion people can -- if we get policies right -- provide enough growth to solve both unemployment and indebtedness here by 2020. In two years, China will be the largest market for grocery products in the world. For a country like Ireland to be able to feed 50 million people, that means tens of thousands of new jobs. Assuming China remains stable, it will become the world's largest economy soon after 2020 and its middle class will exceed the population of Europe. Having signed four vital trade agreements with China, Ireland is now open for business across a range of sectors such as food, software and education. The challenge is how to channel this export-led growth into our domestic economy. Next to the external economy Tiger, the domestic economy looks like a dead Garfield. It was Hong Kong, part of China, whose 15 per cent corporation tax rate first inspired us to succeed in world trade. We copied and beat that rate to rival Hong Kong as the world's most open economy. But we failed to repeat its other successes. Run by Jesuit-educated ministers (Ruairi Quinn take note), Hong Kong enjoys growth of over four per cent and an unemployment rate of less than four per cent. It also provides public health, transport and education services for a flat income tax rate of just 15 per cent. Eamon Gilmore take note. And Hong Kong has no sales tax. Michael Noonan take note. Here, income tax rates that are three times higher than Hong Kong and a 23 per cent VAT rate has brought the domestic economy to its knees. China has abandoned socialism but we still cling to it. In one of the more bizarre "world-turned-upside-down" experiences I've ever had, a Chinese taxi driver complained to me how his taxes were subsidising Irish welfare fraudsters living next door to him and how this would not be tolerated back home in China! China's success in managing population growth is also a lesson to us. Despite recession, and as predicted in my book about 2020, The Best is Yet Come, Ireland's population is growing rapidly. That book argued that the two most important engines of recovery and new prosperity would be trade with China and India (powering external demand) and population growth (powering domestic growth). But chapter 8 -- 'Shannon versus Shenzen' -- included a caveat. Where China channelled population growth into urban areas like Shenzen, we spread it over dispersed regions like Shannon. As a result we failed to reap what I call 'The Density Dividend'. Our houses are too spread apart, too overpriced and too costly to provide local services efficiently. On the other hand, China let its property market grow too quickly. Here it can and must learn from our past mistakes. As well as a vote of confidence in our future, Xi's visit is also a tribute to the Taoiseach, Tanaiste, former President Mary McAleese and former Foreign Minister Micheal Martin whose vision and strategy in cultivating Sino-Irish relations have paid off handsomely. And to Irish diplomats who are, quite simply, among the best in the world. To end on a note of diplomacy, what about the issue of human rights? The first point to make is that having welcomed so many Chinese people to our shores -- we are per capita the most Chinese nation in Europe -- we have ensured positive, friendly sentiments towards us. That is a far better vantage point from which to raise human rights effectively than that of larger countries who were former colonial powers in China and who use megaphone diplomacy. As with the bailout, it's a question of what matters most -- striking a pose or getting meaningful results? Public denunciation by us won't sway China's government. But entities like the Vatican -- with no economic interest -- can, should and do stand up for human rights. This might explain China siding with our Government's criticism of the Vatican last year. The welcome extended to Xi as a representative of his people was entirely justified. But keeping the Vatican embassy shut at the same time -- aside from being a slap in the face for Catholics -- might imply siding with China against the Vatican in relation to human rights, a very different matter. Nor will the contrast between the appropriately warm embrace of comrade Xi -- despite Tibet -- and our recent public lecturing of little Israel over the West Bank go unnoticed. Follow @marcpcoleman on Twitter and listen to 'Coleman at Large' each Tuesday and Wednesday from 10pm on Newstalk 106-108fm Sunday Independent 
