china
{  
    February 20 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/thomas-molloy-our-traditional-strengths-key-to-future-relations-26823408.html }
IT was a nice touch to name a new-born calf after China's leader-in-waiting, Xi Jinping, because it neatly reminded us that his trip is all about trade and food. The Chinese need food and we have it. More specifically, the Chinese need beef and cow hides and we are one of Europe's great cattle producing nations. Chinese demand for animal skins to make everything from handbags to shoes is so strong these days that it has pushed gelatine prices to record levels, which has in turn hiked the price of sweets such as Jelly Babies and marshmallows. The curious relationship between Chinese women's appetite for handbags and the cost of Jelly Babies is a reminder that China is no ordinary economy and we must all get used to the whims of Chinese consumers in the years ahead. In the past, we have often been guilty of gilding the lily when it comes to the importance of visits to these shores by foreign leaders. Queen Elizabeth II's visit was a case in point. It had a pleasing symbolism but was always unlikely to create a single new job because Britain and Ireland understand one another so well, have links going back centuries and are neighbouring islands inside a free-trade bloc. Vice President Xi's visit, which ends today, is different. Few people in Ireland know much about China and few people in China will have heard about Ireland at all until Beijing's state-controlled television stations splashed with the story of the trip. Ireland, with a population half the size of decent Chinese city, is not on most Chinese radars and is regarded as a quaint place rather like the way we view San Marino. Trade between the two countries is niggardly compared to most other countries but it is also in our favour, which is exceptional compared to most other western countries. We exported services worth €2.25bn in 2010 (the last year for which full figures are available) but only imported services worth €478m. Exports of goods were worth €2.7bn, although a miserly €257m came from indigenous Irish companies. The good news is that exports from Irish-owned companies have risen 15pc every year for the last five years. The really good news is that trade with China is in our favour and this trend may well get better. While there is every reason to believe we can benefit from demand for Irish food and drink, there are also signs that Ireland can offer Chinese companies the same advantages that we offer other companies today by providing a low-tax manufacturing base inside the European Union. The most important of the three trade agreements signed by Trade Minister Richard Bruton and Mr Xi yesterday aims to do just this. It creates an organisation inside China to promote Ireland to Chinese companies. This matters because Chinese culture differs from our own in many ways, including the emphasis the Chinese place on introductions before business ties can flourish. In a notionally communist country, the recommendation of the state carries far more weight that it would do here in Ireland. While Irish companies usually do their own research before deciding where to locate, Chinese companies are likely to be guided happily by state recommendations. We are late coming to the Chinese party but this is no bad thing. As the early Christians discovered, pioneers often end up in the lion's den. The world's leading companies have struggled to make money from China, despite the huge market and rapidly increasing wealth. Even giants such as Volkswagen and General Motors, which have made money from what is now the world's largest car market, struggle to repatriate profits because of China's labyrinthine tax laws. China guards its manufacturing sector by all sorts of tricks, including many that contravene the rules of global trade. This is a cause of understandable and massive friction between China and most of our allies. It need not be a cause of friction between Ireland and China because the trade balance is in our favour and it won't worry China if it stays that way. Still, there is no room for complacency; we have come to the party so late that we are in danger of missing it completely. The fact that Enterprise Ireland only has eight people to serve China's 1.3 billion people is worrying. It also puts Mr Bruton's decision to rebrand the County Enterprise Boards into perspective. The County Enterprise Boards are undoubtedly useful and pleasant organisations but we can no longer afford such niche services when we ignore China's enormous potential. We have one final product that offers huge potential; tourism and its sister, education-tourism. Brown Thomas reported last year that the Grafton Street department store made more money from Chinese shoppers than Americans. Many other shops, hotels and tourist attractions may well find the same in future, but they will have to follow in the footsteps of Brown Thomas and start offering Mandarin speakers and start accepting Chinese credit cards. Here again, the fact that we speak English will help us. Other attractions include the relatively unthreatening nature of Ireland and the countryside. People travel when they start earning money and the Chinese are no exception. One sign of this potential is the fact that the numbers of Chinese people coming to Ireland last summer doubled from the previous summer because the Government has scrapped out-dated visa rules which forced Chinese visitors to Britain to obtain an Irish visa as well. Chinese tourists don't fly all the way to Europe to lie on a beach; they can do that much more comfortably and cheaply in Asia. Visitors coming here are not dissimilar to visitors travelling in the other direction; they want to understand a venerable culture and broaden their minds. There is no reason that Bord Failte and the plethora of other quangos that mismanage our tourism sector can't attract Chinese visitors if we stop promoting Ireland as a glorified golf course and start promoting the cultural dimension. This means translating guide books into Chinese, developing phone applications that work on popular Chinese smart phones and offering walking tours around our cities in Mandarin. It won't be easy but it is not particularly difficult either. After all, there are thousands of Chinese students already living here who could be lured from jobs in supermarkets to do something else. Food, tourism and foreign direct investment: our traditional strengths will be the rock that Sino-Hibernian relations are built on. There will be difficulties along the way; relations between the US and China are a constant source of concern and the Chinese economy will experience shocks like any other economy. Frictions inside and outside China are real issues but there is good reason to hope that Ireland and China's relationship will prosper in the years ahead. Irish Independent 
