china
{ OLIVER AUGUST in Beijing 
    July 15 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/fears-for-taiwan-as-china-boasts-of-new-bomb-26144279.html }
CHINA yesterday shocked its neighbours and raised fears about Asian security by declaring that it had developed neutron bombs. The announcement is linked to Chinese threats to use military force against Taiwan if it continues to pursue independence.The neutron bomb disclosure was made in a short statement on the official Xinhua news wire and immediately set off alarm bells around Asia. The Japanese government called on China to abandon the weapons while Taiwan signalled a reversal in its controversial policy of treating China as a foreign country. China has the ability to deliver neutron bombs using ballistic missiles that can easily reach Taiwan. During the last Taiwan crisis, China fired missiles in the direction of Taiwan as part of a naval exercise. RADIATION Neutron bombs are as deadly as atom bombs but they do not damage buildings outside the immediate strike area. The bombs throw off gamma radiation and neutron bombardment that can penetrate thick armour without destroying it. The Chinese announcement came as a surprise to defence analysts. In May US Defence Department officials reiterated their belief that China, a known nuclear power, did not possess neutron bombs. Western diplomats in Beijing said China was unlikely to use its neutron bombs, but the announcement that the People's Liberation Army possesses the weapons is seen as a calculated escalation of the Taiwan conflict. Chinese leaders this week protested over Taiwan's abandonment of the so-called One-China policy. Taiwanese leader Lee Teng-hui had announced that Taipei and Beijing would in future deal with each other as separate states. Chinese defence minister Chi Haotian said: ``The People's Liberation Army is ready at any time to safeguard the territorial integrity of China and smash any attempts to separate the country. Taiwan is a province of China, and China's sovereignty and territorial integrity allow no separation.'' The Chinese government said: ``This will bring monumental disaster to the people of Taiwan. It is very dangerous to use the interests, happiness and future of Taiwan compatriots as a stake to engage in political adventures.'' The neutron bomb disclosure was made in the context of US accusations that China stole its nuclear secrets. China insists it developed weapons of mass destruction on its own. Asked if China's announcement was meant to scare Taiwan, one official said: ``Taiwan knows how to read this.'' The sharp decline in relations between Beijing and Taipei comes only weeks after the two sides agreed to a landmark visit by a high-ranking mainland delegation to Taiwan. Wang Daohan, chairman of China's Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits, was to have travelled to Taipei in October. The visit is likely to be postponed.  (The Times, London) 
