china
{ DAVID RENNIE in Beijing 
    October 01 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/military-might-cant-hide-chinas-jitters-26133898.html }
NUCLEAR missiles, tanks, thousands of goose-stepping troops and hundreds of thousands of chanting civilians paraded through Tiananmen Square to the sound of a 1,200-piece military band yesterday to mark the 50th anniversary of the People's Republic of China. The streets had earlier been cleaned of beggars, street children and the homeless, as well as the mentally ill. Dozens of dissidents were detained in the run-up to the celebrations and hundreds of criminals executed after special public sentencing rallies. President Jiang Zemin used his address to the nation to bid for his place in history, vowing that China would be reunified with Taiwan, the island which has been politically split from the mainland since 1949. At the Tiananmen Gate, from which Mao Tse-tung proclaimed the founding of Communist China on Oct 1 1949, Mr Jiang declared that ``socialism with Chinese characteristics'' was ``the only way to save and develop China.'' Dressed in a grey Mao suit, he watched from the gate of the old Forbidden City while a giant portrait of himself was carried through the square, along with portraits of the two founding fathers of modern China, Mao Tse-tung and Deng Xiaoping. The picture of Mr Jiang was an unusual addition portrayals of living leaders were heavily frowned upon in the days of Deng, thanks to his bitter memories of Mao's personality cult. Central Beijing was sealed for the day under virtual martial law, with only the 500,000 carefully vetted performers and spectators allowed inside the security cordon. Offices and hotels on the parade route were emptied and sealed, and an army of police and ``neighbourhood committee'' monitors watched for the slightest hint of disruption. After a 50-gun salute, Mr Jiang was driven out of the Forbidden City in a convertible Red Flag limousine to review troops massed on the Avenue of Eternal Peace. He told them: ``Comrades, greetings. You comrades are working hard.'' The troops roared back in unison, ``Comrade Chairman, greetings. We are serving the people.'' This summer has seen months of sabre-rattling from China in the face of calls by Taiwan's president, Lee Teng-hui, for equal relations with the mainland. Mr Joang vowed that China would pursue peaceful reunification with Taiwan, but the island was clearly one of the intended audiences for the military parade, with its paratroopers, fighter pilots, short-skirted militia women and combat troops from the People's Liberation Army. They were followed by 25 formations of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, self-propelled guns, anti-ship missiles, giant mobile launchers carrying nuclear missiles and the latest long range rocket, which is capable of hitting Alaska. More than 130 military aircraft took part in a flypast. The years of chaos, murder and waste which marked the first three decades of Communist China were airbrushed from the historical pageant which followed. A huge portrait of Mao was accompanied by large floats depicting the heroism of the Red Army, the Great Hall of the People and China's first space rockets. Flower-waving marchers surrounded a giant stack of wheat and fresh produce. Chinese history books still dodge the man-made famine caused by Mao's disastrous Great Leap Forward, which is believed to have killed up to 35 million people. A giant portrait of Deng Xiaoping headed the largest part of the parade. This focussed on the free-market reforms and prosperity unleashed in the last 20 years. Then came the equally large picture of Mr Jiang. Floats depicted airliners, high-speed trains, giant fish and a model of a traffic interchange - featuring rollerskaters. They were accompanied by thousands of dancers, fashion models, students, newlyweds and athletes, as well as child unicyclists and yet more rollerskaters wearing acid-green body suits and yellow capes. Marchers from China's ethnic minorities waved bunches of peonies and chanted: ``All nationalities, unite for common prosperity. Reunify the motherland and rejuvenate China.'' More floats depicted China's provinces and ``autonomous regions'', including Tibet, Hong Kong, the Portuguese enclave of Macau which returns to Chinese rule in December and Taiwan. About 100,000 primary and middle-school students formed the backdrop in Tiananmen Square, the political heart of China, and the scene of the brutally suppressed democracy movement of 1989. The children held up paper flowerheads and placards spelling out the Chinese characters for ``National Day'', and ``Reform and Development''. Fifty thousand homing pigeons were released to circle over the Forbidden City, and the mausoleum where Mao's embalmed body remains on display. Before an evening of fireworks and a patriotic variety show, the parade ended with a model of a manned spacecraft, reflecting China's vow to send a man into space early next century.  Daily Telegraph, London 
