china
{  
    October 23 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/g7-campaign-may-open-china-and-west-rift-26326844.html }
The Group of Seven's united campaign for faster yuan gains means China risks increasing tensions with major trading partners, as US Treasury Secretary, Henry Paulson, and European Central Bank President, Jean-Claude Trichet, prepare to visit Beijing. Paulson, Trichet and the rest of the G-7 last week called for an "accelerated appreciation,'' the toughest language in four years. They will deliver that message when Trichet leads a European delegation next month, and Paulson follows in December. China's record trade surplus and the fastest economic growth in more than a decade prompted European and Canadian officials to join the US in branding the yuan undervalued. The pressure may lead traders to increase bets that China will give some ground and let the currency climb. "Chinese policy makers will have to justify their yuan policy on a pretty continuous basis to all their key trading partners,'' said Thomas Stolper, an economist in London at Goldman Sachs, which recommends buying the currency as one of its Top Ten trades. Stagnated The yuan stagnated in the past six months, rising just 0.79pc against the currencies of China's major trading partners, according to an index by Westpac Banking Corp. It closed little changed at 7.5086 per dollar in Shanghai yesterday, from 7.5080 on October 19. G-7 finance ministers and central bankers responded to the lack of movement, saying in their statement that given China's "rising current-account surplus and domestic inflation, we stress its need to allow an accelerated appreciation'' of the yuan. That was the biggest change in the statement, because it marked the first outright call for appreciation, Paulson said after the meeting in Washington. Trichet stressed to reporters that the G-7 "has changed on China.'' Buying The group also urged China, Russia and other nations forming government-run investment companies to be clear and accountable when buying international assets. G-7 officials, representing the US, UK, Germany, France, Italy, Japan and Canada, also said the credit-market rout "will likely moderate'' global economic growth. Paulson briefed his counterparts on the $80bn (€56.5bn) fund the three biggest US banks agreed to form to revive the asset-backed commercial paper market and told reporters it "should be done by the end of the year.'' The increased pressure on China comes amid speculation that People's Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan will be replaced. The Communist Party ended its five-yearly congress yesterday, with three top officials stepping down. Other changes may follow; the departure of Zhou's predecessor was announced six weeks after the 2002 congress. Zhou oversaw the end of the yuan's fixed peg to the dollar in July 2005 and he said on October 18 in Beijing that China will "eventually'' move to a freely convertible currency. He skipped the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank over the past two days because of the gathering in China. A stronger exchange rate would only play a "limited role'' in reducing China's trade surplus, Deputy Governor Wu Xiaoling said last week in Washington. "Maybe we are not rushing things as some people wish us to do, but we are moving in a correct direction and in a smooth manner.'' In Europe, frustration with China deepened after the euro- area trade gap widened 25pc to a record €59.9bn in the seven months through July. China's total surplus has ballooned to $185.7bn (€130bn) this year, topping the $177.5bn (€125bn) record for all of 2006. "We want the yuan to appreciate at a gradual pace,'' EU Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said in an interview yesterday. Almunia, Trichet and Luxembourg Finance Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs a group of counterparts from the 13 euro-region nations, plan their first visit as a group to Beijing on November 27-28. Paulson in December will visit Beijing for the third round of the Strategic Economic Dialogue talks he set up last year to alleviate economic tensions. 
