china
{ Bob Flavin 
    July 08 2014 07:21 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-international/car-makers-push-forward-with-the-chinese-market-30414590.html }
Chinese car market shows no signs of slowing down. Over the last few years China has become the powerhouse of the World business market and car makers have been paying close attention. China have a rule that you can only sell cars there if you make them in China and so car companies have opened plants to make cars in China thus creating more jobs and more wealth which in turn makes Chinese people want more cars. By the way, Ireland used to have this same rule which is why most car makers had plants in Ireland. Estimates suggest that there will be 11.8 million cars sold for the first five months this year and the biggest car maker in China is Volkswagen who is expanding production to 600,000 units per year. VW has been investing in China as it takes on rivals such as U.S.-based General Motors and domestic player SAIC Motor Corp in the world's largest car market. VW has the advantage of being in the Chinese market for the last 30 years and they have been making cars that are tailored to the Chinese taste such as the Lavida which is like a limousine version of the Passat, the market tends to like cars with a lot of leg room in the back seat with saloon cars being the best sellers. 
 
Close
 A Volkswagen XL1 hybrid car is displayed at Auto China 2014 in Beijing REUTERS / Despite US cars maker GM having massive recalls and a pubic relations crisis they have managed to be the second biggest car maker in China concentrating on the market outside the cities where many people are first time buyers. Ford are also doing well from the market, recently they opened 88 dealerships in one day and investing heavily to catch up on the German rivals. China will soon impose a registration quota for cars and some of the sales boom there is down to people buying their second car before the quota comes into effect. This is part of China being under pressure to clean the environment with Shanghai getting record levels of air pollution, airports, roads and schools were closed because of the smog that enveloped the city. Car makers are still pushing sales in China and the people there are buying more cars than ever before and China is suffering growing pains from the environment and traffic problems but that hasn’t stopped their appetite for new cars. Online Editors 
