china
{ JONATHAN MIRSKY 
    September 14 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sorry-face-of-china-bertie-will-never-see-26174187.html }
DURING HIS visit to China the Taoiseach will be trying his best to avoid annoying the Chinese. Otherwise, his China experts will warn, how will Ireland secure a seat on the UN Security Council? Beijing always takes its revenge, he will be advised; say the wrong thing and bang goes your chance. What the Chinese like is the kowtow, the lower the better, and if you are going to mention anything delicate, about human rights for example, do it, as the Chinese say, behind the screen or delicately. Best of all, don't say it at all. Of course this is garbage. The Taoiseach must speak up. The real problem will be seeing something worth speaking up about. Look at Mary Robinson. During her visit to China on behalf of the UN, the wife of a dissident tried to hand Ms Robinson a letter in the doorway to her hotel and was beaten up and dragged off by security goons. Ms Robinson said she didn't like that. In Tibet, Ms Robinson asked to see a particular Buddhist monk; this was refused. She said she was disappointed. Did the Chinese cancel her chat with President Jiang Zemin yesterday? Of course not. When Chris Patten was Governor of Hong Kong, where I covered his five year span,it was common for Western tycoons to say that because Beijing considered Patten a whore and a snake (these are not mistranslations ) British trade with China would and did suffer. In fact it went from £2.05bn in the five pre-Patten years, to £4.07bn. For the Chinese, as for the Mafia and IBM, business is business. Even if they cut off your submarine order this year, they'll buy your jets the next. Or take the US; until President Clinton's visit this summer, relations between Washington and Beijing had been awful for years. But contacts were excellent. After all, the Chinese are alleged to have given huge sums to the Clinton-Gore campaign through cut-outs and the Clinton-Gores are alleged to have taken it. ( We'll know more when Attorney General Janet Reno finishes her investigation which will, if proved, blow Monica straight out of our memories.) Chinese hospitality is famed universally, and one of its aspects is concealing anything awkward, rather as if it were an unmade bed or a ring in the bathtub during a dinner party. 3,000 EXECUTIONS Here are some things Bertie Ahern should ask to see, or at least hear about. He won't see them but he should listen carefully to the reasons why they are, so speak, off the menu. According to Amnesty International (AI) China extra-judicially executes more people annually than the rest of the world combined. The known number is around 3,000. This is described by AI as the tip of the iceberg. Executions are usually with a bullet in the back of the neck, and sometimes the family is charged for the bullet. But that's not all: it is well-documented that once the body is dead, but still warm, its organs including the eyes, are extracted for sale to rich foreigners or top officials. BODY PARTS Prisoners with the appropriate blood-type for a particular and impatient customer are alleged to be shot to order. The Americans recently indicted a Chinese official who was plying this trade and trawling for customers in the US. POLITICAL PRISONERS Mr Ahern should enquire. Then there is the vast prison system in which thousands of counter-revolutionaries, what you and I call political prisoners, languish. China has an admirable legal code. No one is tried in accordance with it, because of the notorious principle, as the Chinese put it: verdict first, trial afterwards. The trials of famous dissidents like Wei Jingsheng and Wang Dan, both recently exported to the US, would have been jokes had they not been so desperately sad: no witnesses, no lawyers, no evidence to be tested: just prosecutorial assertions, followed by the slam cell doors and years of bad treatment they were lucky to survive. RELIGIOUS OPPRESSION The Catholic Church: there are several million Catholics in China who are affiliated to the Patriotic Church, which is a subsidiary of the Communist Party. This Church has no contact with the Vatican and its appointments and elevations are wholly domestic and Party dictated. But there is an equally large number of house or underground Catholics. Its priests, bishops, and cardinals some of whom were appointed in pectoram by Rome have spent lengthy stretches behind bars, sometimes for over 30 years. Another good subject for Mr Ahern. DYING ROOMS Then there are the dying rooms and the whole question of why there is such a ghastly imbalance of males and females in China. China's one-child policies, which came into action in 1980, stipulate that for most couples one child is enough. Bust Chinese traditionally prefer males. So there is a lot of pre-natal scanning, infanticide, and abandonment of tiny girls. Those foreigners who wish to adopt a Chinese baby find either no or only handicapped male babies in orphanages, most of whose children are the result of abandonment. A Chinese doctor blew the whistle on this, two secret films were made, and Human Rights Watch/Asia issued a long and well-documented report, based almost wholly on Chinese sources, resulting in a terrifying picture of female infants being allowed to starve or freeze to death in orphanages. THE CHINESE went ballistic and the doctor who started the investigation got out of China a jump ahead of the police; she now lives in London. What Beijing can't deny is the violently skewed male-female ratios all over China; naturally the ratio should be about 102 males for every 100 females. Its well over 110 to 100 in many places. Where are the little girls? Mr Ahern should ask. Naturally he should ask too about China's sale of weapons of mass destruction to some of the globe's worst gangsters, in Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Pakistan. But those are boring questions, to which the CIA and others have already supplied the answers. Mr Clinton who once referred to tyrants from Baghdad to Beijing has simply stopped bothering. So the Taoiseach should find a way to nail Beijing. They will hate it. Good.  * JONATHAN MIRSKY was East Asia editor of the Times until his resignation in March. 
