china
{ Ashling O'Connor 
    December 30 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/why-li-tie-makes-chinese-crackers-about-everton-26025503.html }
GOODISON PARK is an unlikely venue for the biggest game of league football on the planet. Particularly as it is  between Everton and Manchester City. Everton struggled even to engage Merseysiders as they bumped along the bottom of the Premier League last season. That was before David Moyes and Wayne Rooney but more importantly, for the purposes of this story, that was before Li Tie. Since the arrival in August of the China player, Everton can claim even larger global support than Manchester United. They are now the most popular football team in the world's most populous country and it is just about to get bigger. On New Year's Day, Everton meet Manchester City, the only other Premiership side to field a Chinese player, Sun Jihai. It promises to be the most watched football match outside of a World Cup. Interest in the game is immense. About 100 Chinese executives and journalists are making the 6,000-mile journey just to watch the two teams that are the toast of Beijing after signing (and playing) the biggest football stars in the People's Republic. The representatives of Kejian, the Chinese mobile phone company that sponsors Everton, and their corporate clients will be wined and dined while watching China's two favourite sons. The return meeting of Sun Jihai, Manchester City's right wing-back, and Li Tie, Everton's central defender, will be the talk of China's growing legion of football supporters and the business elite being drawn to the sport as a conduit between East and West. Li Tie, the 24-year-old many fans wrote off as a commercial gimmick, will want to do better this time in front of his adoring audience. At Maine Road in August, Moyes substituted him after just 25 minutes. Since then, however, he has been a regular starter alongside Thomas Gravesen and is admired by fans for his workrate, possession and pinpoint passing. He will be hoping Moyes gives him a starring role on Wednesday after resting him for the last few games. The match is likely to be shown on CCTV5, the state-owned national sports channel, which has bought the rights to one live Premier League match a week. It reaches 360 million people more than the USA's population. Football fever has taken hold in China since 330 million people watched the national team's World Cup debut match against Brazil this summer. Despite the disappointment of losing all three matches, China's young are taking up football faster than any other sport. Everton have caught the wave just at the right time. Their first Premiership match of the season, against Tottenham, was watched by 120 million. "Before the Kejian deal, Everton was one of the unknown Premier League clubs in China," Kegang Wu, director of Chinalink, a UK-based international trade consultancy, said. "Now most people say if they watch one Premier League match it is Everton." Mei Zhang is evidence enough of the surge of Chinese interest in Everton since Kejian became shirt sponsor and threw in Li Tie and compatriot Li Wei Fung on one-year loan. She gave up her course at Liverpool university to deal full time with the mountain of queries from Chinese newspapers, wire services and overseas supporters. "Now Everton is the most popular football team in China," she said. Li Tie is bigger than David Beckham by a long chalk, unable to go out in public in China (or Liverpool's Chinatown) without being mobbed. Mei herself receives 20 letters and 50 e-mails a day from China and finds it hard to keep up with the demand for information. She posts reports on Everton's Chinese language website, which is accessed by 500,000 people a day. Wei Zhao, a 20-year-old student and dedicated member of Everton's burgeoning red army, said: "Before a Chinese player came here, nobody knew Everton. Now Everton is famous in China." Wei, whose English name is Richard, is one of a dozen Chinese nationals working as club stewards. There is a waiting list for the job. His friends Fiona Jiang, 19, and Ellen Feng, 24, are also stewards because they want to watch Li Tie but cannot afford tickets. "Since I have worked here, my parents at home watch the Everton game every time," Fiona said. Whether by accident or design, Everton has become a window to the world's most populous nation. It helps that there is a big local Chinese community. Liverpool is twinned with Shanghai while its Chinatown is the oldest in Europe, dating back to the late 19th century. Just as the shipping industry first induced Chinese sailors to settle around the city's busy docks, football is the new Sino-British link. Diane Graham, who runs an interactive software company operating in China, bought an executive box at Everton after the announcement of the Kejian deal. "This is our shop window," she said. "We can entertain Chinese business people here. We probably have around 100 through this box a season." Her company, PRT Asia, pays £32,000 a season for the box but the return is far greater. "It is money well spent and I probably wouldn't be spending it at all if it weren't for the Chinese connection," Graham, a former lotteries manager at Tranmere Rovers, said. "I think next season at least half of these boxes will be taken up by Chinese businessmen." Graham is not the only one to have picked up on the potential to reach China through Goodison Park. Among the perimeter hoardings, the advert for Red Square vodka is written in both English and Chinese characters. Joe Farley, owner of Wolly Wong's Chinese flavoured crisps, is Li Tie's kit sponsor and has taken the player under his wing. He also has an executive box. "One of the first things Chinese business people say to me when they come over is, can I get them tickets to the football?" he said. "My box is always full. I used to be on my own in there when we weren't doing so well." And that seems to be the key to the success of this unlikely alliance. Everton are riding high after years in the doldrums and Li Tie has turned out to be really rather good. Moyes, who admitted he saw him as a squad player at first, has chosen the Chinaman on merit above rivals for his position. Evertonians have also taken to Li Tie, a well-mannered player off the field, possessed of a gutsy temperament on it. The most valuable player in China's C-League last season, he is surprisingly popular at a club not best known for racial tolerance. (Remember 'Everton are white' chants when John Barnes was signed for neighbouring Liverpool.) However, Everton fans in this purple patch at least sing fondly of Li Tie from the stands, even if they find it difficult to rhyme his name with anything. "Naa, Naa, Naa, Na, Na, Na, Naa . . . Na, Na, Na Naa, Li Tie . . . " (to the tune of the Beatles' Hey Jude). At least it is less jingoistic than the (admittedly creative) terrace chant devised by Manchester City fans for Sun Jihai. "Singing aye-aye-yippee Sun Jihai, singing aye-aye-yippee Sun Jihai, singing aye-aye-yippee, his dad's got a chippy, aye-aye-yippee Sun Jihai" (to the tune of She'll Be Coming Round The Mountain). Kejian's timing over its sponsorship of a Premier League club was impeccable. One of the biggest mobile phone makers in China, where there are an estimated 191 million handsets in circulation, Kejian wanted an association with top-flight football to improve its image. Young people in China all wanted Nokias, while Kejian was seen as a bit uncool. Li Tie has changed that. Andy Hosie, Everton's head of marketing, said: "There must be ten David Beckhams in China that have just never been found." On Wednesday, hundreds of millions of people could not care less about David Beckham, Asia's adopted icon. They have two of their own to worship. The Times, London. 
