china
{  
    March 22 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/now-china-and-russia-see-eye-to-eye-on-us-policies-26395445.html }
Richard Spencer in Beijing RUSSIA and China marked the arrival of President Vladimir Putin on a state visit to Beijing yesterday by launching twin attacks on US foreign policy. Both leaders responded strongly to American condemnation of their own human rights records. The US has criticised Russia for hampering democratic development at home and in former Soviet states, and China for its lack of transparency in military spending and its ties to countries with poor human rights records. The Russian Foreign Ministry said the United States's National Security Strategy, released last week, was using "populist slogans to defend its own interests" in its promotion of democracy around the world. Accused The Chinese Foreign Ministry accused the United States of "interfering in China's internal affairs". As China emerges from an era when it kept diplomatic silence on most world events, it is increasingly finding itself in the same camp as Russia. The EU has also been disappointed at the joint refusal of Russia and China to join in what it sees as its "middle way" approach to the Iran nuclear issue, with both refusing to countenance the threat of sanctions at the United Nations security council. China and Russia have major interests in Iran, and are thought to co-ordinate their responses on Middle East policy. The two powers have also taken a joint initiative to set up a grouping of central Asian states such as Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, where the United States had hoped to boost its influence, called the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation. But while they are in agreement over major international issues, their economic ambitions are causing increasing friction. Mr Putin made a preliminary agreement for a gas pipeline from Russia to China, but offered only a feasibility study for an oil pipeline, which is China's real priority. Economic Beijing wants a commitment from Russia to build a pipeline into China guaranteeing it the oil supplies on which it is more and more dependent to feed its economic boom. Russia has delayed a decision for two years, torn between China's demands and the blandishments and money of Japan, which also wants access to Russian energy. China's leaders will be pleased to see Mr Putin has brought with him his energy minister, resources minister, the heads of the state oil and gas firms Rosneft and Gazprom, and the head of its nuclear power programme. Meanwhile, Russia is critical of China for its failure to reciprocate with investment in Russia, and accused China's businessmen of "numerous violations of customs, tax, currency laws and the passport-visa regime". Jin Canrong, professor of international relations at Beijing's People's University, warned against over-reacting to the tactical alliance of the two leaders. "Now that China considers itself to be a member of the international community, it has more regular dialogue with the main countries in the world," he said. "I don't think it's necessary [for the United States] to be concerned." (©Daily Telegraph, London) 
