china
{ Justin Hydeand Susan Kelly 
    December 05 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ford-will-one-day-export-its-cars-from-china-25917448.html }
UNDERSCORING China's huge promise as a hub for global auto production, the head of Ford this week said the automaker expects to one day export finished cars from the giant of the Orient. Next year alone, it plans to use about $1bn in Chinese-made auto parts. Chairman and chief executive Bill Ford Jr said almost all its parts sourcing there would likely be for the vehicles it makes in its Chinese joint venture. "At some point we could see exporting out of China," Ford said at a briefing. US automakers and parts suppliers have been racing to gain a foothold in the burgeoning Chinese car sector. It will be a dominant issue in global motoring for the foreseeable future as China is seen as a major hub. They have established a number of joint ventures there, lured by the prospect of a growing middle class that has prospered as the Chinese economy sizzles. Sales of cars in China broke the one-million mark for the first time in 2002 and are expected to double this year. Last month, the Big Three Detroit automakers said they plan to export thousands of vehicles to China in the next two years. Ford has said it plans to boost investment in China's fast-growing car market by more than $1bn over the next few years. General Motors, the world's top automaker and a major player in China, recently said it plans to increase capacity 50pc at its Chinese plants by 2006. Cheap Chinese labour is a key attraction as automakers face intense cost pressures. Automotive exports from China are now a relatively small part of the global auto market. But the country is already a production base for many foreign companies, and it is hoping to become a manufacturing hub for automobiles as well. The dominant foreign automaker in China, Volkswagen, said last month it would ship 600 Chinese-built cars a year to Australia over the next five years. That would be the first major foreign market for its cars made in China. Some auto suppliers say China's low-priced parts are beginning to set the tone for global pricing of components. "It is a worldwide purchasing market now. We purchase not just from China, but literally from all corners of the earth, and we'll continue to do that," Ford said. He said Ford had been slow to get into China but stressed that it had been taking a more cost-effective approach to the market than some of its competitors. On his first-ever trip to China last October, Ford said production at the company's joint venture Chongqing Changan Automobile Co Ltd would rise to 150,000 units from a current 20,000 as part of its expansion, which is also due to include a second car plant and engine plant. He did not give a precise time frame. 
