china
{ Charlie Weston 
    April 24 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/why-irish-eyes-are-now-looking-east-26052693.html }
Hong Kong is seen as an essential manufacturing base  for Irish firms wanting to tap the lucrative Chinese market, especially with wages rising at  home. HONG KONG is seen as an essential manufacturing base for Irish firms wanting to tap the lucrative Chinese market, especially with wages rising at home. At least six Irish companies are considering setting up manufacturing bases in Hong Kong and China in a bid to cut rising costs at home, the head of Enterprise Ireland in Asia has revealed. Michael Garvey of the agency, which helps Irish companies to export, said the six companies were facing up to the reality that it would be cheaper to locate low-end manufacturing operations in Asia. He said the companies, which he did not name for commercial reasons, were looking for partners or seeking to contract out work to companies in China and Hong Kong. Already some 16 Irish companies have a presence in Hong Kong, which they use as a gateway to exploit the vast Chinese market. They are mainly IT companies and include Iona, Parthus and SmartForce. Also operating a base in Hong Kong are financial learning company Intuition, where financier Dermot Desmond is one of the main investors, telecoms software group Network365 and Waterford Crystal. There are nine Irish companies with operations in China, including food giant Kerry which supplies the ingredients for most US fast-food outlets in China. Mr Garvey instanced stove maker Waterford Stanley as a company that found it more profitable to have some of its low-end manufacturing carried out in Asia. It has some of its early stage foundry work done here, as costs are lower and environmental standards are not as exacting. The Enterprise Ireland managing director for Asia said the number of Irish companies with a presence in Asia was expected to rise sharply in the next few years, in an effort to tap into the vast Chinese market, where, for example, some 145m people have a mobile phone. Rising wages in Ireland are also expected to put continued pressure on indigenous firms to locate high-volume, low-end manufacturing in Asia. Already a number of large US corporations have relocated some of their sub-supply work for their Irish plants from the State to Asia. This trend is expected to pick up pace in the next few years. Irish companies seeking to set up operations in Hong Kong are set to be welcomed with open arms. The Special Administrative Territory of China, as Hong Kong is known, is facing intense competition from mainland China for foreign investment. Although part of China, Hong Kong competes separately with China for overseas investment. Adding to its problems, Hong Kong has been hit hard by the global slowdown in IT spending, the US downturn and September 11. There are the main reasons Hong Kong is targeting Irish companies, among others, to relocate or expand some of their operations into the former British colony. Hong Kong is anxious for Irish companies to use it to exploit its position as a 'gateway to China'. The Hong Kong Trade Development Council, the equivalent of the IDA in Ireland, offers support to firms anxious to set up in Hong Kong. The Trade Development Council has deepened business ties with Ireland by linking up with the Dublin Chamber of Commerce. Officials from the Hong Kong Trade Development Council told the Irish Independent the region has the advantages for Irish businesses of operating with a common law system similar to that in the UK, it has the largest container port in the world and it has China as its hinterland. China has a population of 1.5bn and is forecast by the World Bank to double its trade to the rest of the world over the next five years, following its recent entry into the World Trade Organisation. Hong Kong has traditionally been an export hub for factories in China, but many overseas companies are now setting up directly in mainland China. Hong Kong, which has very little manufacturing itself, depends for its economic survival almost completely on trade. That is why it is trying to woo overseas firms to set up operations here. The situation has been given some urgency by the fact that near-term prospects for the Hong Kong economy are not as bright as they were recently. Unemployment reached a historic high of 5.8pc in 2001 and the territory is expected to experience deflation throughout this year. In recent years Hong Kong generated huge budget surpluses, but this trend has now reversed and a budget deficit is expected to grow over the next few years. In an effort to reposition itself, the Government of Hong Kong is investing heavily in tourism, infrastructure and attracting more overseas investment. Port facilities are being expanded also. Not to be outdone, Enterprise Ireland is attempting to ensure some Asian investment flows back to Ireland. Recently, the agency has taken a large number of Chinese and Hong Kong-based businessmen on trade delegations to Ireland. A big emphasis is being put on getting Asian IT companies to source software in Ireland and services like education and project management. Some 10,000 Chinese people are currently studying English in Ireland in institutions like Portobello College, Dublin. Enterprise Ireland said the image of Irish companies and service providers like language schools has risen dramatically in south-east Asia following the visit of Tanaiste Mary Harney on the trade mission here in 2000, and as a result of the visit of Chinese Premier Zhu Rong-Ji to Ireland last October. Exports to China from Ireland surged by 110pc for 2001, according to Central Statistics Office figures. Imports from China fell by 2pc in the same period. Irish exports to Hong Kong rose by 9pc last year and imports from Hong Kong were up 4pc. Enterprise Ireland Asian boss Michael Garvey said Irish companies had much to gain by exploiting markets in Hong Kong and China and by locating cost-sensitive manufacturing operations here. 
