china
{ Thomas  Molloy 
    December 10 2009 04:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/chinas-tiger-roars-but-investors-are-advised-to-proceed-with-caution-26590109.html }
CHINA has been the next big thing for investors for quite some time and with many economists predicting that the world's most populous country will be the world's largest economy in the next decade, it's a fair bet that some New Year's resolutions will include the promise to boost investments there. The catch is that this is easier said than done. China's growing importance was highlighted last month by legendary London-based investor Anthony Bolton's decision to move to the Far East for two years and launch a China fund. Mr Bolton, who was among the first big beasts of the financial jungle to spot Ireland's potential, has hailed China as the "investment opportunity of the decade". However, others fear there is already a bubble in Chinese stocks that will burst with catastrophic economic and political consequences. The doubters note that the average price/earnings ratio of Shanghai-listed stocks is over 20 times. China's stock markets in Shanghai and Hong Kong have seen great growth since touching lows earlier this year but shares there are by no means a one-way bet. Chinese stocks almost trebled in value between 2005 and late 2007, only to plunge in 2008 while the Shanghai exchange suffered a particularly nasty fall in 2001. The Investor's Chronicle opined not so long ago that prudent investors should not have more than 5pc of their investments in China. One way for Irish residents to invest in China would be through low-cost exchange-traded funds (ETFs) which are listed in London and several other European exchanges and sold in euros, sterling and dollars.  Exposure Some companies listed in London also offer significant exposure to Chinese economic growth. These include mining stocks such as Rio Tinto, which supplies Chinese industry with raw materials, or banks such as HSBC and Standard Chartered, which supply the money. London's Alternative Investment Market (AIM) lists dozens of small Chinese companies such as mobile battery maker China Shoto, fruit producer Asian Citrus or building materials company West China Cement, all of which have 100pc exposure to China. Another option worth considering would be to invest in China's currency, the renminbi. UK-based 'Money Week's' Merryn Somerset Webb reckons the renminbi is one of the world's last one-way bets. She recommends buying into the Stratton Street Renminbi Bond Fund. The renminbi is not freely traded and can't be bought but the fund does the next best thing, giving investors direct exposure to the Chinese currency by buying investment grade credit. A punt for the brave perhaps but one that involves a bet on one of the world's most undervalued currencies. But while China is set to grow and the lure of the East is strong, investors should always remain cautious. It is worth remembering that for all its growth, China's gross domestic product is still smaller than Germany's. Irish Independent 
