china
{ Tim Willasey-Wilsey 
    August 11 2017 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/article36021421.ece }
United States policy towards North Korea under the last three presidents has been to place the problem firmly in the hands of the Chinese. Only Beijing, the argument goes, has the influence over its wayward ally to oblige it to give up its nuclear ambitions. It is time to assess why this approach has repeatedly failed. China fears a disorderly collapse of the Kim regime. That would lead to a wave of impoverished refugees fleeing north. It would also risk a united Korea being established with US troops on China's southern border. So China has a vested interest in retaining North Korea as a buffer state. Still, China does not wish it to retain its nuclear weapons and long-range missiles, not least because they invite unwelcome United States attention to the region, and provide Japan with a perfect excuse for continuing its military improvements and the constitutional changes to permit wider military deployment. China therefore wants North Korea to survive, but as a non-nuclear state. This idea would now be acceptable to South Korea too. For many years, Seoul's ambition was to unite the two Koreas. Indeed, a Ministry for Unification has existed since 1969 and a unification tax was proposed in 2011. In recent years, however, reunification has gone out of fashion. South Korea noted the economic penalties which Germany paid for integrating the former German Democratic Republic. The costs of integrating North Korea would be many times greater, estimated at between one and three trillion dollars. From these calculations emerge the basis of an agreement. Both China and South Korea want a stable and sustainable neighbour. Japan too would welcome an end to the missile threat. For its part, North Korea has always wanted formal recognition as a sovereign state with guarantees of its future security. The United States would have to provide such guarantees, which it would be willing to do in exchange for a verified destruction of Pyongyang's nuclear weapons and missiles, and the dismantling of its production facilities. Here is the main stumbling block. In North Korea, the nuclear programme was originally developed as a bargaining chip which could later be negotiated away. Now Pyongyang views its nuclear weapons as an essential element for its future survival. Kim and his generals doubtless watched what happened to Iraq, Libya and Ukraine after they gave up their weapons. To force a change in Pyongyang's thinking, China would have to employ the sort of assertiveness and realpolitik which it has used in abundance in the South China Sea and over Tibet. Economic measures might comprise one element, but only Beijing understands the complex structures of power in North Korea and how they can be manipulated to engineer change. Why would China act? One reason would be to forestall US military action. This is doubtless why General HR McMaster (inset) has been talking of the possibility of preventive war. However, both he and the Chinese know that a war on the Korean peninsula would be disastrous, particularly for Seoul, which would suffer heavy damage and loss of life from North Korean artillery. Furthermore, a war would be damaging to US-China relations. A more effective motive would be if the US was to offer China a deal. That deal would have to include limitations over the future role of US troops stationed on the peninsula. Overall numbers could be reduced while retaining sufficient capability to deter North Korean aggression. But the key element would be an agreement that US conventional ground troops would not venture north of the present demilitarised zone in the event of a collapse of North Korea. There is, anyway, no appetite in the US for ground troops to participate in another war. This is the incentive that would persuade China at last to exert real pressure on the Pyongyang regime to denuclearise. Until then, Beijing will just go through the motions in the crisis. (© Daily Telegraph London) Telegraph.co.uk 
