china
{  
    January 30 2010 01:08 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/world-news/china-issues-sanctions-threat-to-us-26627698.html }
China's foreign minister warned that US plans to sell 6.4 billion dollars (£4 billion) of arms to Taiwan will harm Chinese efforts to unify peacefully with the island, the ministry has said. The warning came after China suspended US military exchanges and threatened unprecedented sanctions against American defence companies. Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi said the planned weapons sales to self-governing Taiwan, which Beijing claims as its territory, were a "crude interference in China's internal affairs" and would hurt its national security. Beijing's strong response to Friday's US announcement of the weapons sales, while not entirely unexpected, was swift and indicated that it plans to put up a greater challenge than usual as it deals with the most sensitive topic in US-China relations. "This is the strongest reaction we've seen so far in recent years," said Stephanie T Kleine-Ahlbrandt, northeast Asia project director for the International Crisis Group. "China is really looking to see what kind of reaction it's going to receive" from President Barack Obama, she said. China's Defence Ministry said the arms sales would cause "severe harm" to overall US-China cooperation. Vice ministerial-level talks on arms control and strategic security were postponed. Defence Ministry spokesman Huang Xueping said the Chinese military would fight any move to hurt the country's sovereignty. "We will never give in or compromise in this issue," Huang said in a statement. In comments made during a visit to Cyprus on Saturday, Foreign Minister Yang urged Washington to respect China's interests and revoke the arms sale decision immediately to avoid undermining bilateral relations, the Foreign Ministry said. He said the US sales "jeopardised China's national security and China's peaceful reunification efforts." The warning came as the US seeks Beijing's help on issues including the global financial crisis and nuclear stand-offs in North Korea and Iran. Tensions were already high after recent US comments on internet freedom and a dispute between Google and China, as well as Obama's plan to meet with Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama this year. "Our action regarding Taiwan reinforces our commitment to stability in the region," US State Department spokesman PJ Crowley said in Washington on Saturday. "We know China has a different view. Given our broad relationship with China, we will manage this issue as we have in the past." PA Media 
