china
{ Charles Moore 
    August 09 2008 03:55 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/going-for-gold-china-makes-a-play-for-world-domination-26467968.html }
xx xx xx xx xx x x x x Until yesterday, the most famous athletic moment in Chinese history was a solitary swim. On July 16, 1966, Mao Zedong, then aged 73, was filmed crossing the Yangtze River. He appeared, wrote his doctor, to be swimming "faster and further than an Olympic champion'', but this was an illusion produced by the swift flow of the Yangtze: "Mao had only floated on his back, his giant belly buoying him like a balloon, carried down the river by the current.'' Mao chose to put on this show for political reasons. Having created the Cultural Revolution, he had stood back from the intended chaos to see what would happen. Now he was reasserting power: "Mao's swim in the Yangtze meant that his self-enforced exile was over. He was returning to the political stage. Two days later ... he returned to Beijing. Henceforth, the Cultural Revolution would follow his direction.'' Looking at yesterday's astonishing scroll of Chinese glories rolled out on the floor of the Bird's Nest stadium, one sees, once again, a political purpose. "This is a historical chance for us,'' says the Chinese sports minister. One World, One Dream, says the slogan. Whose world? What dream? We all know China has only become the great power it is today because it abandoned Mao's economics. Deng Xiaoping, who emerged as leader after Mao's death, broke with the past and opened China up to markets. By 2020, it will be the second economic power in the world; by 2050, perhaps, the first. Because the economic change is so great, we pay less attention to the political continuity. Of today's top nations, China is the only one that has not had to abandon its totalitarian past in order to be accepted. The Communist Party remains in control. A vast portrait of Mao still looks down on Tiananmen Square. This is not to say that Beijing any longer believes that the world should be ruled by dogmatic Marxism-Leninism. But China's current leaders are in the line of Mao, and they are achieving what he attempted and failed -- an illiberal form of rule that, in a sense, works. 'In The End of History', the book which marked the high-water mark of Western post-Cold War cultural confidence, Francis Fukuyama noted that China, by killing students in Tiananmen Square in 1989, had "become just another Asian authoritarian state'', and "lacked internal legitimacy''. Because it had suppressed freedom, he suggested, it would suffer. That judgment was made in 1992. It does not, unfortunately, feel right now. In yesterday's ceremony, huge, illuminated footprints in the sky walked between Tiananmen Square and the stadium, while thousands cheered. Modern technology seemed to give physical form to the country's traditional "mandate of heaven''. China has prospered, while those that tried freedom have suffered. Even as they fret about human rights protests, the Chinese leaders must also congratulate themselves. "We are still here,'' they can say, "richer and more powerful than ever. Repression works.'' But they cannot say it in public, and that's where the Olympics come in. Spectacular sporting displays are the classic means of projecting totalitarian power without talking about it. If it all goes to plan, sportsmen will extrapolate from the comforts offered to them, and declare China is a splendid place. I have in front of me a dispatch from 'The Spectator' in August 1936: "Competent foreign residents here [Berlin] say the German government really does desire peace ... and one has seen several things in this festival which suggest Germany wants to impress her Olympic visitors not only with her efficiency but with her desire to be friendly.'' I am not predicting that, in three years' time, the West will be at war with China. But I am pointing out the similarity of totalitarian political purpose. Youth! The future! Unity! The Olympics offer all these things. You might retort that China may be a global power, but it has become so because it has westernised, and will succeed only when it becomes a democracy. Yet suppose that, rather than westernising, China simply understands more coldly than we how the world works. It has noticed that we live in a dream-world of our own films and computer games, and it is happy to profit by furnishing the technological materials for these dreams. We play: it works: it wins. Besides, the Olympic opening ceremony shows China is now ready to glorify its own culture (not mentioning Communism, of course). "We Chinese invented writing and paper and printing and gunpowder and the compass,'' it in effect told us yesterday, "and we spread our power by land and sea." What we are witnessing is impressive, but also frightening. If China does become top nation, nothing in our history will have prepared us for that. The late Sir Denis Thatcher, bored at a dinner for the president of Finland, turned abruptly to the president's wife and asked: "What do the Finns think of the Chinese?'' She explained the Finns did not think much about the Chinese. "Well, it's about time they did,'' said Denis, "because there are more than a billion of the buggers.'' Indeed; but this brings me to the one hope we have when confronted with dictatorships -- that they are undone by their own cruelties. A great evil of Chinese Communism has been its One Child Policy, creating a nation of only children with 117 boys for every 100 girls. The good news for the rest of us is that, just as it is poised to overtake America, China will find itself burdened with an aged population -- roughly 300 million pensioners by 2035. If the East is grey, rather than red, it may thus deny itself the gold medal of world domination. (© Daily Telegraph, London) 
