china
{ Rebecca Clancy 
    May 09 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/china-back-to-trade-surplus-but-doubts-cast-on-figures-29253110.html }
CHINA swung back to trade surplus in April after posting a deficit the previous month, official data showed, but analysts cautioned the better-than-expected figures may not reflect reality. The world's second-largest economy recorded an $18.2 billion (€13.8bn) trade surplus last month, Customs said in a statement, higher than the median forecast of $15.6bn in a poll of 12 economists by Dow Jones Newswires. April imports increased 16.8pc year-on-year to $168.9bn, Customs said, while exports rose 14.7pc to $187.1bn. In March, the country posted a deficit of $880m. China runs a deficit with most of its trading partners, which supply oil, other raw materials and industrial components, and makes up for it by running large surpluses with its US and European export markets. China's exports to Europe, hurt by the continent's debt troubles, declined 6.5pc to $25.9bn and the surplus with the European Union narrowed by 32pc to $7.9bn. Trade with some European countries suffered even bigger declines. Germany's imports of Chinese goods fell 7.2pc and France's by 6.7pc Exports to the United States edged down by a fraction of 1pc to $28.1bn while the trade gap with the US narrowed by 13pc to $14.7bn. Some analysts suggest Chinese trade data is distorted by reporting errors and is unreliable as an economic indicator. "Suspicions remain about the quality of the data particularly on the export side with the import data on the other side from its Asian trading partners in particular not matching the apparent recovery," said CMC Markets' senior analyst Michael Hewson. However, April's stronger numbers might help to reassure companies and investors after an unexpected slow down in China's economic growth cast doubt over the strength of its recovery. Chinese GDP grew by an annualised 7.7pc in the first three months of this year, down from the previous quarter's 7.9pc growth. Analysts had hoped for 8pc growth. Mixed signals from the economic giant have suggested that recovery remains fragile. The official purchasing managers' index (PMI), a widely watched indicator of the health of the Chinese economy, slowed to 50.6 in April from 50.9 the month before. Industrial output, which is crucial to job creation, also slowed in the first quarter to 9.5pc, from 10pc in October-December. China's total trade grew just 6.2pc last year, well below the official target of about 10pc. Meanwhile, Chinese leaders welcomed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to Beijing as China tries to bring its growing international influence to an area where it has had little impact – the Middle East peace process. Greeting the Israeli leader at the Great Hall of the People, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang made no direct mention of his meeting two days earlier with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who leads his people's efforts to achieve statehood. Talks between Israel and the Palestinians on the statehood issue have been deadlocked for four years. "I'm ready to exchange views with you today on how to strengthen our bilateral relationship, how to enhance our bilateral cooperation and also on regional issues such as the question of Palestine and the Middle East process," Li told Netanyahu before the two sat down to talks on the peace process and other regional issues. The near simultaneous visits to China by Abbas and Netanyahu underscore China's desire to play a greater role in the Middle East, a region Beijing has long seen as a key source of energy. "The Middle East confuses the Chinese," said China expert Yoram Evron of Israel's University of Haifa. "But in the past two years, there are people in China who think it needs to expand its activities in the region in order to safeguard its interests." (Telegraph) Irish Independent 
