china
{  
    October 15 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/entering-the-dragons-trade-lair-25926571.html }
The Irish trade delegation to China hopes to boost business between the two countries, but by disregarding the rules, the Chinese want to have their cake and eat it IN the Xiang Yang Market in Shanghai, they are not quite so brazen about flogging you fake Ralph Lauren polo shirts these days. China's recent membership of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and complaints by the owners of top brands seem to have made the trade in dodgy labels more subtle. But it still goes on. The fakes are available; it is just that you will have to stand and wait a while at the stallholder's pitch while an assistant gets the illegal goods from a safe hiding place. Fake Ralph Lauren polo shirts can be bought for as little as ?10 if you bargain. All of this is happening in a market crawling with Chinese police. This shows that in the three years since this reporter last visited China, little has changed, despite all the promises to respect the rules of international trade following the country's accession to the WTO. It is also why Irish business and union leaders, along with economists, have expressed fears that jobs in Ireland are under threat from the emergence of China as the new workshop of the world. The fact that China can produce goods at one-tenth of the cost of Western companies and the fact that it does not play by the rules give the country an unfair advantage, critics say. China flouts contract agreements, it allows environmental standards that would cause street protests and draw the swift reaction of environmental watchdogs in the EU and America, and it does not respect intellectual property rights. Ralph Lauren is just one of a host of Western brands available for sale at a fraction of the price in Ireland. If all of this were not making it hard enough for Western manufacturers, add in the low valuation of the Chinese currency, the yuan. The pitifully low valuation of the yuan would allow Chinese companies to undercut everyone else, even without lower production costs. However, President Mary McAleese, speaking earlier this week in Shanghai, maintained Ireland could only gain from the opening up of the Chinese economy. Speaking to students at a business college, she said the Chinese market should be seen as an opportunity for Irish companies. Discounting fears expressed by unions that low-cost Chinese factories will tear the heart out of manufacturing across Europe, the President said: "People have genuine concerns to do with competition in our country. Undoubtedly, the sheer scale and size of China and its opening up to the world does provoke huge questions about competition." She said similar fears were expressed about our economy and culture being overwhelmed when we joined the EU. That concern did not have any foundation. Instead, Ireland benefited from increased competition and markets, she said in reply to a question from students at the China-Europe International Business School. The Chinese economy offered new markets for Irish goods, services and skills, she added. "We know that China's opening up economically can only mean good news in terms of world prosperity." Mrs McAleese was speaking as the largest ever trade mission to leave Ireland was in China, involving some 82 companies. Firms like electric heater maker Glen Dimplex and animal nutrition company Alltech opened factories in China this week. However, despite the President's reassurances, many remain to be convinced that China will ever play the game fairly. The rules matter whether we are talking about an Irish firm operating in China, or a company in Ireland under pressure from underpriced Chinese imports. Then again, some say who could blame them, when America - that beacon of capitalism which constantly bangs on about free trade - protects its own steel industry and agricultural sector to such an extent. However, business leaders are adamant that if countries like Ireland are to overcome the threat posed by China, we need to continue to hammer home the importance of rules of international trade with the country's leaders, whether that is at a Sino-Irish level or a Sino-EU level. At the same time, Ireland needs to continue to upgrade its workers' skills so we become a more knowledge-based economy. Leave the low-cost and low-skilled assembly work to firms in the Far East, while Ireland carries out higher-skilled operations, is the idea. Also important were the efforts of President McAleese last week in prodding and gently agreeing with Chinese leaders when they said they hoped to overhaul their judicial system. The President, a former law professor, said she discussed the importance of respect for contract law and intellectual property rights when she met leaders in Beijing. She also emphasised the need for better environmental standards in smog-choked China. There are signs of some movement in these directions. The President was told issues like environmental standards were taken seriously by the Chinese leadership while reform of the judiciary was an issue on the agenda. These promised reforms can't come quickly enough. If there are no reforms soon, the stallholders at Xiang Yang Market in Shanghai will continue to make a mockery of copyright laws. And every time a street market trader sells another fake brand name, he will be bargaining away another Western job. 
