china
{  
    November 10 2010 09:15 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/world-news/china-trade-imbalance-dangerous-pm-26698264.html }
Globalisation could "go into reverse", harming economies around the world, unless China acts to correct dangerous trade imbalances, Prime Minister David Cameron has warned. Mr Cameron, speaking before he flew to the South Korean capital Seoul for a meeting of leaders of the G20 group of major economies, warned that the massive surpluses created by China's export success had created "a dangerous tidal wave of money" sweeping around the world. His warning came in a speech to students at Peking University in which he also risked infuriating the Communist authorities by extolling the virtues of political democracy and a free press and saying he hoped China would develop towards "a greater political opening". Mr Cameron accepted that Britain's society was "not perfect" and insisted he was not trying to lecture the Chinese or claim a position of "moral superiority". But he said Britain's democratic traditions "make our government better and our country stronger", adding: "The rise in economic freedom in China in recent years has been hugely beneficial to China and to the world. I hope that in time this will lead to a greater political opening, because I am convinced that the best guarantor of prosperity and stability is for economic and political progress to go in step together." Mr Cameron said he wanted "to make the positive case for the world to see China's rise as an opportunity, not a threat". But he said if Europe's openness to China is to be maintained, it must be clear that "China is open to Europe" and he said China can take a leading role now on dealing with economic problems as the world emerges from recession. At a time of slow growth and high unemployment in many nations, there was a danger of states turning to protectionist measures which could damage the recovery, he warned. "Globalisation - the force which has been so powerful in driving development and bringing huge numbers into the world economy - could go into reverse," said Mr Cameron. "If we follow that path, we will all lose out. The West would lose for sure, but so would China." And in an apparent reference to the low valuation of the yuan, which has helped China's exports and allowed it to build up massive reserves of foreign currency, Mr Cameron said: "The truth is that some countries with current account surpluses have been saving too much while others like mine with deficits have been saving too little. And the result has been a dangerous tidal wave of money going from one side of the globe to another. We need a more balanced pattern of global demand and supply, a more balanced pattern of global saving and investment." The under-valuation of the yuan is likely to be the focus of wrangling at the G20 summit, with consumer nations like Britain and the US arguing that the massive foreign currency reserves which China has built up on the back of export success are a danger to the fragile world economy. PA Media 
