china
{ Frank Longid and Stephanie Wong 
    November 04 2008 08:24 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/pepsico-to-invest-1-billion-in-china-over-four-years-26489616.html }
PepsiCo Inc., the world's largest snack maker, plans to invest $1 billion in China in the next four years to increase production in the world's most-populous nation. The company also intends to boost local research and development, launch new products, expand its sales force and build its brand in China, it said today in a statement. The investment may create ''thousands'' of jobs, it added. ''This is our largest investment in China in the nearly 30 years we have been doing business here, and it is consistent with our broader global strategy of investing in high-growth developing markets,'' PepsiCo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Indra Nooyi said in the statement. ''We are enormously confident in the continued prosperity of China.'' Pepsico joins other foreign consumer companies such as Best Buy Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in focusing on emerging markets while their sales suffer at home as the sluggish U.S. economy curbs spending. Pepsico said in September that it will invest $500 million in three years in India to triple its business there. ''Pepsico will have to use its money wisely to get good returns,'' Sophie Fan, a Hong Kong-based consumer analyst at CSC Securities HK Ltd, said over the phone. ''The Chinese drinks market is already very competitive and quite mature. The quickest way to gain market share would be to do mergers and acquisitions like Coca-Cola. The company can buy companies cheaply in the difficult market.'' Coca-Cola Its rival Coca-Cola Co. said on Sept. 4 that it agreed to buy China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd., the country's biggest maker of pure fruit juice, for $2.3 billion which will double its share of China's fruit-juice market. Pepsico said it will cut 3,300 jobs after its third-quarter profit missed analysts estimate and the company lowered its forecast for the rest for the year. The maker of Pepsi-Cola and Gatorade has said it wants to save $1.2 billion over three years as it closes as many as six plants and reduces staff count by 1.8 percent. Pepsico and its bottling partners employ more than 22,000 in China, according to the statement. The brands the company produces and sells in China include Pepsi, Frito-Lay snacks, Tropicana juices, Quaker foods and Gatorade sports drinks. The world's second-biggest soda maker posted third-quarter net income that fell 9.6 percent to $1.58 billion, or 99 cents a share on Oct. 14. Twelve analysts had estimated an average third- quarter profit of $1.08 a share. Pepsico has 31 percent of China's soda market, according to Euromonitor International, trailing the 54 percent share Coca- Cola Co., the world's largest soft-drink maker. Wal-Mart Best Buy, the largest U.S. electronics retailer, plans to accelerate its growth in China and more than double its number of stores in China to at least 12 next year, Robert Willett, chief executive officer of Best Buy's international business, said last week. Sales at stores open at least a year at its U.S. stores in September fell about 2 percent. Wal-Mart also has no plan to slow expansion, Rob Cissell, its chief operating officer for China said in an interview Oct. 22. It posted a September same-store sales gain of 2.4 percent in the U.S. and expects low-single digit same-store sales growth on a percentage basis going into 2009, the retailer said. PepsiCo rose 46 cents to $57.47 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. (Bloomberg) 
