china
{ Matt Spetalnick 
    November 11 2014 12:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/china-needs-to-underwrite-not-undermine-world-order-30734667.html }
US PRESIDENT Barack Obama has declared that a successful China was in the interests of the United States and the world but Beijing had to be a partner in underwriting international order, and not undermining it. Addressing the growing concerns among American and other companies about the Chinese business environment after arriving in Beijing, Mr Obama also urged China to reject the use of cyber theft for commercial gain and create a more level playing field, where policy is not used for the benefit of some firms over others. Mr Obama's trip to China for an Asia-Pacific summit comes at a time of growing China-US friction, with Washington trying to expand American interests in Asia while Chinese President Xi Jinping demonstrates more willingness than his predecessors to demonstrate Beijing's clout on regional issues. The two countries have disagreed in recent months on a range of topics, including trade, maritime issues and cyber security, while the US has lobbied against the setting up of a multilateral infrastructure investment bank sponsored by China. "Our message is that we want to see China successful," Mr Obama said. "But, as they grow, we want them to be a partner in underwriting the international order, not undermining it." Mr Obama and Xi will meet over dinner tonight and then for bilateral talks as part of an official state visit tomorrow. In a deal that he said would improve trade and business ties between the world's two largest economies, Mr Obama announced that China and the United States agreed to significantly extend the length of short-term visas. But he also urged Beijing's leaders to create a fair market place for foreign firms. "We look to China to create a more level playing field on which foreign companies are treated fairly, so that they can compete fairly with Chinese companies," he said in a speech to business leaders at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum. A critical sideshow to the talks was an ice-breaking meeting between China's president and Japan's prime minister. It was hoped that the encounter would knock some of the frost off the relationship after more than two years of high tensions. The cooling was caused by a spat over a group of uninhabited East China Sea islands. The row has raised concerns of a military confrontation between Asia's two largest economies, which could draw the US into the fray alongside ally Japan. China also deplores what it sees as Japan's efforts to play down its brutal 20th century invasion of China, a lingering sore point for its 1.3 billion people. The closed-door meeting between China's Xi Jinping and Shinzo Abe of Japan raises hopes that the countries can dial down tensions. It also burnishes Mr Xi's image as a statesman ahead of a summit of 21 world leaders, including US president Barack Obama and Russian president Vladimir Putin. China hopes to use the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit to assert its ambitions for a larger leadership role in US-dominated trade structures. Although core divisions between China and Japan will not be resolved soon, Mr Abe said they have made a "first step" towards reconciliation. "I believe that not only our Asian neighbours but many other countries have long hoped that Japan and China hold talks," he said. "We finally lived up to their expectations and made a first step to improve our ties." Earlier, before heading into a meeting room at Beijing's Great Hall of the People, the two men grimly shook hands. Mr Abe could be seen speaking briefly to Mr Xi, who gave no response and looked towards the cameras for the remainder of the handshake. In a break from the usual protocol, Mr Abe was made to wait for Mr Xi to arrive rather than being greeted by him on arrival. China's Foreign Ministry also described the meeting as being at Mr Abe's "request", a phrase not used in its reports on Mr Xi's meetings with South Korean president Park Geun-hye and other foreign leaders. China's official Xinhua News Agency said Mr Xi urged Japan to "do more things that help enhance the mutual trust between Japan and its neighbouring countries, and play a constructive role in safeguarding the region's peace and stability". The two sides issued a joint statement on Friday agreeing to gradually resume political, diplomatic and security dialogues and reaffirming the central pillars of their post-Second World War relations. Japan said it acknowledged differing views over the status of the islands, called Diaoyu in Chinese. Irish Independent 
