china
{  
    February 25 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/karen-coleman-our-silence-on-china-will-bring-jobs-but-at-a-cost-26826082.html }
Let's say you're a smart person. You're well qualified but you can't get a job. You're reluctant to pack your bags because you like Ireland. Imagine getting a great job offer after two years on the dole. You'll get €65,000 a year to help the Chinese develop their new hub in Athlone that will create 10,000 jobs. It's a fantastic opportunity and you're over the moon. But there's a problem. Your job offer is contingent on the Irish government reversing its belligerent insistence that China releases the hundreds of human rights activists, lawyers and writers that it has slammed in jail over the past year. The Chinese are mad and are threatening to relocate to Scotland if the government doesn't shut up. Now let's say you're someone who cares about human rights. You're an active member of Amnesty International. You've marched against the war in Iraq and you're disturbed by those abuse stories from China. So what do you do? Will you support the government and risk the first decent job offer you've had in ages? Or will you tell it to mind its own business and stay away from internal Chinese affairs? You could say that was Enda Kenny's dilemma when he hosted the Chinese Vice-President Xi Jinping during his visit to Ireland this week. A public dressing down on China's human rights record could have jeopardised jobs. But the self-censorship that Mr Kenny actually opted for also carries a cost. Maybe his silence was a savvy move? Increasingly, countries that publicly humiliate China by referring to its human rights abuses are ostracised. Just look at Norway. When the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the imprisoned Chinese writer and democracy campaigner, Liu Xiaobo, the Chinese retaliation was severe. Beijing claimed he was a criminal and guilty of "inciting subversion" after he drafted his Charter-08, which called for multi-party democracy and respect for human rights in China. Beijing had demanded that the Norwegian government lean on the Nobel committee to get it to award the prize to someone else. Oslo insisted it had no influence over the committee. When Mr Liu was confirmed the winner, the Chinese suspended talks to establish a free trade agreement with Norway and froze all high-level political relations with Oslo. And that wasn't all. Norway's valuable salmon export business to China was badly damaged after the Chinese imposed stringent veterinary controls on its salmon imports. The fish ended up rotting in Chinese warehouses because the controls were so time-consuming. And that's our dilemma. We may end up with rotting fish. And that Chinese hub in Athlone might get relocated. Only the certifiably insane would dispute our dire need for jobs, trade and business opportunities. We need all the help we can get and China could be our salvation with its burgeoning economy. But what price will we pay for our blossoming friendship? Silence and a blind eye may be the answer. If we want to do business with Mr Xi & Co, we had better keep our traps shut and forget about human rights in China. Maybe that's not such a bad thing, you might say? Sure aren't we too small and too broke to be pointing the finger? And anyway, that nice Mr Xi doesn't look like a monster. Well before we get all lovey dovey about the affable Mr Xi, here's what goes on in his country. Amnesty International describes China as a place where 'torture and other ill-treatment' is 'endemic in places of detention' and where 'thousands' are being executed after unfair trials. When it comes to torture, Mr Xi's beloved communist regime endorses mind-boggling brutality. According to the International Society for Human Rights, Chinese torture includes overstretching of body parts, near drowning or suffocation, puncturing of body parts, cigarette burns and violent beatings. ISHR -- the International Service for Human Rights -- reports that female political prisoners are especially at risk of being raped and gang-raped during their time in 're-education' camps. Sometimes women are stripped naked and put into male cells where the inmates are encouraged to rape them. The ISHR refers to 'the perversion' of some of those working for the Chinese Security Institutions, saying: "Policemen and members of the ministry of state security have, for example, forcefully inserted various objects, such as bottles, sticks and brushes into the victim's vagina or anus." The ISHR describes one form of torture called the 'bed press'. The victim is made to sit on the floor with his/her legs out straight. "Their head and upper body are then pushed down against their legs. The victim is fixed in this position by bonds and forced under a bed. Torturers or other detainees subsequently climb on to the bed and jump up and down." And the situation has deteriorated since last year's Arab Spring revolts with the Communist regime fearing the spread of a 'Jasmine Revolution' to China. Over the past year a string of pro-democracy and human rights campaigners, writers and lawyers have received lengthy prison sentences for speaking out. So that brings us back to our dilemma and the cost of doing business with China. We want jobs. They want respect. And that means sticking a gag over our mouths and turning our backs on those who may need us to speak up. But we've been here before and proved adept at the dark art of double standards. Remember Shannon? While we used one hand to fly the flag of neutrality, we stuck the other up in the air to guide in American warplanes on their way to Iraq -- a war that was both illegal and unjust. The employment stick was also used back then. A harsh stance on Shannon could upset the multi-nationals and jeopardise thousands of jobs here. And so we compromised. But self-censorship carries its own price; the erosion of the moral high ground and the decay of life's ethical compass of right and wrong. So, back to China. Would you speak out and risk your job? Or would you stay silent and swallow your principles and leave the outrage to countries brave enough to forfeit economic growth for the sake of humanity? Irish Independent 
