china
{ Joanna Kiernan 
    April 11 2010 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/china-dolls-26648818.html }
'You know the way in Hong Kong the guy is more, like, short and skinny? And I'm kind of fat. So if I'm in Hong Kong, I'm really kind of fat, like, not skinny," a very slender Sarah Chan, 19, tells me. "In Hong Kong as well, we think all the Irish girls are gorgeous because they have, like, blue eyes and because in Hong Kong they more like girls that have big eyes and with long eyelashes, with blonde hair and very pale white skin. But in Ireland they prefer tan skin and straight hair as well!" Sarah is currently studying business and law at UCD. She and her 18-year-old friend Carol Chan have come to meet me in the UCD Arts Block. They are two bright and interesting girls; that much is clear after just a few seconds in their company. I'm intrigued by what can have brought these two young women all the way from Hong Kong to little old Ireland. Studying, I'm told, learning English; bettering themselves and their professional prospects. Education is very much to the forefront for these girls, but like most women they have room also for the odd irrational notion of a need for physical self-improvement. Carol and Sarah murmur to each other about Korean girls being the worst for altering themselves in order to look more "western", before Sarah turns and says, while gesturing towards me, "They really want to try and look like a western girl, like, tall nose, big eyes and then big boobs." I take a moment to soak in the compliment, noting that this is the first time and probably the last time anyone will tell me I have any sort of sizeable cleavage, or indeed a tall nose. "I think, like, people in Hong Kong, their attitudes towards things are different as well," says Carol. "Like, in Hong Kong people would be a lot more superficial than people are here. Like in the subway, it's actually ridiculous. Half the ads in our subway are for slimming. I remember one was like, 'Oh she went from 120 pounds to 110 pounds.' 120 pounds! Like, there is actually nothing wrong with that. That's actually pretty skinny, like, at 110 she's just starting to go into dangerously underweight range. And you're on the subway every day and you're just looking at that girl and thinking, 'Oh, God! I'm so fat.''' However, Carol has noticed that Asian girls are not alone when it comes to being self-conscious. "It actually is the weirdest thing ever here when I see girls putting on fake tan and I'm just, like, 'They don't even sell that in Hong Kong!''' she gasps. "It's just all whitening products and everyone wants to look pale! Some girls even wear fake eyelashes to school to make their eyes look bigger and then they'd have contact lenses that are darker, so then their eyes appear bigger. Some girls, like, tape or glue their eyes so they get the double eyelid." The slight-framed Yi Jun Guo, 23, from China, who goes by the name Angela, also worries about her weight, "Two years ago I was only 85 pounds, but now I'm too big." And Debbie Ip, 21, whose parents are from Hong Kong and who was born in Cork, is not immune to this pressure. "I try not to feel the pressure because I think I'm fine the way I am," she tells me. "I don't know why they all like to be thin and really pale. So when I go over there, I guess I do feel out of place. It kind of bothers my mom, because she's always telling me to eat less food. I don't eat as much now, but I used to eat big, big portions and my mom used to say: 'Don't ever eat that much in Hong Kong, you'll frighten everybody!' Because, you know, I'm a girl, you're not meant to eat that much." Li Li, 29, from Fuxin, a marketing manager with the Ireland Chinese News newspaper, attempts to explain just what look Asian girls crave. "If your skin is a dark colour, when you wear green, it's really ugly. The European girls with the white skin and the green colour and purple, it's really shiny, really beautiful, that's the difference." Dating, it seems, is another contentious issue for the girls. "My mum said you can't get a boyfriend until you're 25 or something," Sarah Chan giggles. "It's just, like, all the old mind from the parents. All my friends they have boyfriends already, like in Hong Kong, but just don't tell their parents." I ask student Sarah Chan if she thinks she'll ever marry, at which point she becomes bashful and starts to fan her hand delicately in front of her face. "I talk to my mum and she says she doesn't mind if I don't have a boyfriend forever. She just don't want me to go away," Sarah answers eventually, adding, "The culture is so different, like, Asian and western, it's so different." "I just came over in September to study medicine here. It was like the only place I could do pre-med," Carol states plainly with a melodic Americanised twang. "Most people think I'm American," she tells me, a result of attending a Canadian school in Hong Kong. "Definitely the older generation would want you to settle down or whatever and have a traditional family, but I'm not really like that. Compared to here, it's really traditional," says Carol. So, there's no such thing as living together before marriage then? "Oh no, no, you wouldn't do that, no," she answers immediately, adding, "I think, like, if you got pregnant at a really young age, it'd kind of reflect very badly on your family and the family is a really big thing." "My mum has really strict things about going out with a guy," agrees Debbie Ip. "Most Chinese parents are pretty strict about that. So she doesn't want me to go out with someone until I'm finished college, because it'll affect my education. She's always talked to me about, you know, stories of girls who started dating and then their grades dropped, trying to scare me into it. I couldn't see myself not getting married, because then I don't know what I'd do, but right now is definitely education. I've mentioned it to my mum before that I don't want to have kids and she freaked. "I don't think my mom would condone abortion, but you have to think there is the whole concept of 'face' over there as well. I know this lady and she has five kids, but the thing is that they were all born in a really short period of time. So she had four kids and then she got pregnant with the fifth one and she couldn't tell her family because it was so soon after the last kid," Debbie almost whispers. "I remember my mom telling me that she was really embarrassed about it." Angela has given a lot of thought to the issue of marriage. "I'm thinking about it now," she tells me, "because, you know, I'm 23 years now. I need to be thinking about the future, but I'm not sure, because I want to do more in my life for the job. I'm now working in architecture decoration. It's a part-time job, but if I'm married, when after I have the kids, I need to keep all my eyes on them, I have no time for something else." If she was back in China, Angela believes, she would be pressured to be more proactive in finding a husband. Li Li tells me that because more boys babies are born than girls in China, women have a good selection of potential husbands to choose from. But a limited shelf life. "In China you can hear, 'This man is single', never hear, 'This woman is single.' If the woman is, like, after 32 years old it's a little bit difficult to find a good man, because they say: 'Thirty-two years old? They still not married! Some problem, maybe some problem with bodies!''' "I think 24 or 25, you should have a boyfriend you think you are going to marry," Angela concurs. "You know, no more than 30 years. I always thinking about my parents in China, now, you know, they are getting older, I need to be thinking about how to support them. The government do not pay a lot after they are working, you know. It's a little. It's a just to keep you alive, basically." Perhaps not surprisingly, as a student, Sarah is a fan of the Irish social scene, but finds it very different to Hong Kong, "In Ireland, you're always, like, drinking and in Hong Kong it's, like, we have lots of entertainment, like we have a cinema for 24 hours and all the stores, like all the shopping centres; it's, like, 24 hours." So she doesn't drink? "No, definitely I'm drinking," Sarah laughs. "I came here so, like, I'm influenced by them already!" But not everyone is such a fan of Ireland's pub culture. "I only go to a Chinese restaurant or to karaoke because I don't like the pub, too noisy for me and I don't drink too much," says Xe Shan, 25, who was a traffic policewoman in her native Fujing. Marketing manager Li Li married her long-standing Chinese boyfriend in Dublin just two months ago. "We had a reception in my friend's restaurant," she tells me. "We have 180 people. Compared with China, it's not too much. We plan to have a wedding party in China, so it will be 800 people." Just as I begin to subconsciously tot up the total, she casually informs me that this means 800 guests at a reception in her city, and another 800 guests for the shindig in her husband's home town. According to Li Li, at 29 she would be considered a mature bride in China, "In China it's old," she says. "I'm very late, but mostly they getting married about 26, 27. In China you couldn't study for the degree course if you are married. So you have to graduate, get everything done, and then you can marry." However, Li Li feels that young Chinese people are becoming less traditional when it comes to issues such as dating and sex before marriage. "From 1979, Chinese law is one family, one child. Right, OK? And then after that I was born in 1981, so my family still have some traditions, because they are teachers. So in my mind, I couldn't go out with some people for a night, no. The children born after 1990, now OK, everything is open, everything will happen, because the parents they are young, they don't mind about that." So are there any single mothers in Hong Kong? "Yeah, lots, but not as much as here like," Sarah responds, adding, "It not like, you know the way in Ireland, some of my friends, they're Irish, they're only 17 or 18 and they've already got pregnant and they still had the baby. In Hong Kong, it's so much less people who are like pregnant at 17 years old and still want to born a baby. They'd get an abortion or something, but in Ireland they're more responsible, they more care for the children, so they would still have the children." "That's not really good. People who living in China, if they have a baby before they marry that's no good," Li Li adds. "For the law in China if the couple they are not married, they can't go into the hotel," she continues, informing me that guards will often check the list of names held at hotel receptions to make sure unmarried individuals are not sharing a room. Sarah and Carol have a brief conversation about how odd it is that abortion is banned in Ireland, when it is so commonplace in Hong Kong and China. But Li Li is of a slightly different view: "Not too much people do that, like, to take the baby off, like. But some people the baby have a problem; for the Chinese law, everybody have to very carefully have a baby. If they really don't want, they have to go into the hospital. "My husband he want to have more babies," says Li Li, as she considers the one-child policy which, she says, is still very much observed. "But in China if you have a more babies, maybe have two, you have to pay lots of money. So they can't have too much peoples, I agree with that." As I broach the subject of motherhood with Angela, I ask would she prefer to have a son rather than a daughter. "This is still the case for the Chinese," she answers with a knowing glance. "For me I can't understand, maybe, because I know, you know, if I have a baby and it's a girl, I need to give a lot of thinking about her." "In China, it's a law you should have just one baby. If he has some hurt, you know, a problem, then you can apply to have second baby, but I think each family should have one baby. For me, if I married Irish, I think the best situation is to have two babies, one is for girl, one is for boy." But what does she make of the Chinese authorities' attempts to control the population? "I don't think it's right, but I think maybe in the future it will be changed because the generation is getting too old, you know, there's no power, no labour for a new generation so it's according to different situations." "Chinese people are very traditional," Angela retorts, taking the opportunity to explain what she feels are the expectations of Chinese women. "You need to have a bachelor's degree and you need to keep yourself safe you know, not to talk to any guys. At my age now is OK," adds the 23-year-old, "but I think if you 20 years old, I think it's not allowed. Young people who do that are, in normal people's eyes, maybe, they are bad people. Your parents, you know, shouldn't allow." The preference for sons over daughters in China and Asia is something that has been widely documented, but how does it feel to grow up in such an environment? "My grandfather never spoke to me when I was young, but you see the way, like, I am more good at studying than my brother, so they start liking me," says Sarah. Excelling at school in order to somehow compensate for being female, I soon learn, is commonplace. "When I was young, my grandfather used to more favour my brother because you know the way in Hong Kong and Asia, they more like sons rather than girls. I'm not really sure, in Ireland, do they still do that?" Sarah queries. I answer in the only way that I can, that I had never experienced it -- but then, I have no brothers. I explain that from my experience, the general Irish response, when someone is asked what sex baby they're hoping for, is that they don't care "as long as it's healthy". "I think here the family more like girls and more treasure girls, like little princesses," Sarah ponders for a second before adding: "I put lots of effort to make my grandparents like me, but they like me now." "Even when I told my dad that I wanted to study medicine, he was kind of against it because I was like, a female and he said, like, it's not a very good profession for us. Things are more equal for, like, guys and girls here," Carol adds pensively. "It's really bad," says Debbie, "I have one brother and he happens to be the youngest, so he's doubly spoiled. He gets preference for a lot of things. I mean, I don't feel like I can blame my parents because they've grown up in a society where boys are valued. My mom always wants him to get the best and because he's a boy, you know, he has to look good because he's going to carry on the name and stuff," she adds plainly. "He's not as good at school as we are and my mom is always saying she wishes he was smarter than all of us, because he's the boy. All Chinese parents you know make their kids get grinds and be top of their class," she adds. "It's a lot of pressure." So would her mother approve of Debbie's brother marrying an Irish woman? "She would definitely encourage him to marry someone Chinese," Debbie says. "I think she'd be very disappointed if he married someone Irish, but I mean I think the chances of any of us marrying someone Chinese are quite slim." Debbie's mother is encouraging her to move to London, where there is a larger Asian population, in the hope that she will find a Chinese husband there. "For 20 years ago people, they prefer a son, because -- I don't know, do you know that? -- because the son's blood is different with daughter's blood," Li Li looks at me for a second as I attempt to simultaneously rein in my puzzled expression and my enraged inner feminist. "That's why people always want a son, for this family's blood they want a long, long line. But now nobody mind, only for very small towns and very small cities they want a son, but the young people they don't mind." "But if you want to have a son in China," Li Li adds, "go into the hospital, you can have a son." There is silence for a moment as I contemplate what I'm being told. "They can check that for you, if you want a son, if you want a twins, it can be happened," she maintains. "It's very safe, only €300 it will be done. They just check your period all the time and use technicals to give you son. If they really want a son, just go into the hospital and that's no problem. My mom's student, she's 24 years old, she want a boy and girl together like twins and, yeah, it's OK, because in China for the medicals, it's really developed." I get brave then and ask what the girls think of their government and if they agree with the controls people living in China are under. "In Ireland, they have different parties, but there's not too much people," Li Li says. "I think if there are too many parties in China, there are too much problems, because too much people in China. Sometimes maybe some bad things happened, I don't really care, because most is OK. "China has too long a histories, you can't explain this is good and this is not. The business is developed OK, very fast, I can't believe that and I think it's OK one government control," Li Li tells me. However, others are less willing to engage in the debate, "I think it's very free here," Angela concludes, "When I am in my country, I miss Ireland." L Photography by Kip Carroll Assisted by Charlene Farrell Make-up by Vivien Pomeroy and Jess MacDermot, both Brown Sugar, 50 Sth William St, D2, tel: (01) 616-9967 Hair by Trevor Hynes, Peter Mark, 74 Grafton St, D2, tel: (01) 671-4399 Shot in Bonga Karaoke Bar and Restaurant, 52 Capel St, D2, tel: (01) 872-7934. Bonga is open from 1pm until late for lunch, dinner -- buffet and a la carte -- and full bar. Its newly extended karaoke rooms are now open, with rooms for parties from 10 to 40 people, with thousands of songs in English Sunday Independent 
