china
{ John Lynch 
    December 07 2014 11:18 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/theres-no-room-for-modesty-in-the-bmw-engine-room-30806874.html }
I'll say one thing for the German motor industry: it refuses to display any modesty whatsoever.  The Audi slogan of 'vorsprung durch technik,' (or 'leaping ahead through technology') is only excelled in the hubris stakes by the motto of the company we are examining today, BMW. It informs the public that its products represent 'the ultimate driving experience' and given the rate of progress it has made in the last five or six years, especially in China, a lot of people are buying into the slogan. However pinning your star to the 'China miracle' may not be the soundest strategy, as we will explore later. BMW, a century old in 2016 (a special div?), trades in 140 countries, employs over 100,000 and produces over half of its vehicles outside Germany. It is highly rated even by outsiders, and named the world's most reputable company by Forbes Magazine two years ago. In its post-WWII growth phase, it used the British motor sector as a model but soon surpassed the UK example. By 2000 it was purchasing one of the iconic UK giants, the Rover Group, incorporating the British Leyland business. Sadly the Rover Group is now split between BMW, SIAC (China) and Tata Motors (India). Today the company has 28 production facilities in 13 countries, including China, USA, India and a plant in South Africa. Last year it produced a record two million vehicles and demand was especially strong in the US and China. However some emerging markets like India, Russia and Brazil slowed. As might be expected, R&D plays a vital role. Last year BMW spent €5bn on product development and 11,000 were employed on R&D alone. China is now the world's largest car market and an important market for BMW. It accounts for 22pc of its global sales and a key driver of its profits. Ironically it was in 2008, when the rest of the financial world was in bits, that BMW got its explosive growth in China. Since then the motor group has shown an impressive compound annual growth rate of 45pc. However, 'red lights' are flashing. BMW believes the China boom is coming to an end. The company anticipates China will be like the US car market; namely large and competitive with moderate growth. An added problem comes in the form of the China National Development and Reform Commission. It is investigating anti-competitive behaviour by non-Chinese car companies. Some worry that the investigation could be a by-product of a wider ranging probe into car pricing, spare parts and servicing. To further add to car manufacturers' problems, China is limiting new plates to help traffic-clogged cities. The impact of China on BMW sales is shown by the trends in the last five years. Revenue five years ago was €50bn and profits a minuscule €400m. Then the Chinese car craze kicked in and one year later the company's revenue had move to €60bn and profits jumped to an unbelievable €4.8bn. Last year, after four consecutive record years, revenue reached €79bn and the group recorded its best ever pre-tax profit of almost €8bn. The main driver of revenue and profits are cars and financial services. Car sales last year were €70bn and profits €6.6bn. Financial services also had a successful year; leasing to retail customers and profits were an impressive €1.6bn. It is going to be fascinating to see how BMW works its way out of the dilemma. Given the winds of change that are prevalent in China, the question is, can BMW continue to perform? However, the company is well positioned in China and the USA and Europe are recovering. The present share price does not reflect much serious concern. While the stock was as low as €20 in 2009, it hit an all-time record of €96 early this year. At the moment it hovers around the €80s. The signs are it could move higher. But would you buy at this price? Nothing in this section should be taken as a recommendation, either explicit or implicit, to buy or sell any of the shares mentioned. Irish Independent 
