china
{  
    January 23 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/phenomenal-impact-of-china-on-world-26281664.html }
ENERGY demands and the rise of China will be two of the main dominant factors driving world agriculture both at home and abroad over the next 10-20 years, dairy farmer and investor Michael Murphy told the delegates. The well known agricultural commentator said the 'China effect' is set to have a phenomenal impact on world commodity balance and in particular in the demand for grain. "China is the largest middle class population in any country out of a population of 1.3bn and has an average growth rate of 9.5pc per year over the past 20 years. This rate of development is unprecedented in world history. For example, in 2005 China used 54pc of the world demand for cement. "China will reach US income levels per person by 2031. As people become more affluent they also tend to increase their meat consumption; this increase meat demand will also drive up the grain requirement. Currently, China uses 19pc of the current global harvest; most projections estimate that this will be at 40pc by 2031," he said. Mr Murphy explained that we are in the very early stage of a huge structural increase in the demand for grain. Demand has out-paced supply for the last six years and corn inventories are now at about 63 days forward cover, wheat inventories are at 85 days forward cover. China in particular has seen its wheat stocks fall from 103m tonnes in 1998 to 35m tonnes now, he said. Focusing on energy demands he said a massive market shift in land use away from food production and towards energy production has left supermarkets competing with petrol stations for the same grain. "Shortage of water in China is also a major issue, which will mean that extra water for industry and cities can only come from agriculture in the future as there is no other major source. China is already short of water. As aquifers are depleted, less water is available for the future. Drought in India, China and Australia coupled with the growth in ethanol has led to a rapid increase in grain and corn prices in 2006 and when the full China effect kicks in hard over the next number of years, prices will rise again," he predicted. Mr Murphy told delegates that relatively grass based sheep beef and milk producers will be strongly advantaged as the China effect kicks in. "The price of foods dependant on grain feeding will rise rapidly. Prices for pork, poultry and grain-fed beef will rise. The 90pc of the world dairying which is produced in confinements, i.e. where food is brought to the cow and heavy meal feeding is the norm, will be hit hard." High cost producers will quickly come under pressure and meal feeding will be reduced. Milk supply will also be reduced and milk commodity price will increase. It will result in strongly increasing incomes (at last) for efficient grass-based dairy farmers. 
