china
{ Richard Spencerin Beijing 
    November 21 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/china-faces-down-bushs-attack-over-human-rights-25957658.html }
CHINA calmly faced down criticism of its record on human rights and religious freedom by President George W Bush Sunday, demonstrating its confidence in its growing clout despite hostility from the world superpower. After his speech last week demanding that China moves towards democracy and political freedom, Mr Bush opened a visit to Beijing by making a symbolic visit to a Protestant church near Tiananmen Square. "A healthy society is a society that welcomes all faiths and gives people a chance to express themselves through worship," Mr Bush said afterwards. He also wrote "May God bless the Christians of China" in the guest book, a reference to the fact that most Churches in the country are not recognised by Beijing and that their members risk harassment, arrest and beatings. But behind the rhetoric, a carefully choreographed strategy of not allowing the Chinese to become too offended has been in play in the past week, led partly by Mr Bush's father. The first President George Bush, a former United States ambassador to Beijing, led his own private trade mission last week, meeting senior leaders. China's President Hu Jintao brushed off the current President's words, saying: "It is inevitable for China and the United States to have different views on some issues." The two countries had different history, culture and domestic situation, he added. China's human rights and democracy had made "notable and historic progress" under Communist Party rule, he added. The Bush administration has repeatedly clashed with China, over issues from human rights and Taiwan to its long-term military strategy. This year, relations between the two countries hit a low again after America and Japan, China's fiercest rival, declared a resolution of the Taiwan issue a "mutual security concern". America has also been pressing China hard over its currency, whose artificially low exchange rate Washington partly blames for its huge trade deficit. But since the start of the war on terrorism, and in particular the invasion of Iraq, China's leaders have become increasingly confident that there is little the US can do at present to force their hand on any of these issues. Before this visit, the authorities imposed house arrest on a number of dissidents in Beijing. Mr Bush later said that he had given Mr Hu a list of political prisoners about whom the US was particularly concerned, and called on him to hold direct talks with the Dalai Lama over Tibet and the Vatican over recognition of the Catholic Church. At a joint press conference earlier he had said, with Mr Hu at his side: "It is important that social, political and religious freedoms grow in China." Mr Hu made no reference to any of these specific issues. On trade, he said China would "gradually" cut its surplus with America, and "unswervingly" press ahead with currency reform. (© Daily Telegraph, London) 
