china
{  
    April 12 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/what-wed-have-to-give-up-if-we-really-wanted-to-boycott-china-26436874.html }
Two days after Christmas, while sitting in her living room with a deluge of torn wrapping paper and opened gifts lying on the floor around her, Sara Bongiorni, a freelance writer from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, had an epiphany. Turning to her husband, Bongiorni posed a question. "I asked him if he thought it was even possible at this point for a middle class American family like ours to actually go for a whole year without buying anything made in China." He said he didn't know, and she said: "Well, let's find out!" And so began a year-long odyssey where Bongiorni -- with her reluctant and sceptical family in tow -- decided to banish China from the house. The plan was simple enough. The family would keep any items originating in China that were already in their home but would refrain from buying anything with that ubiquitous 'Made in China' stamp. Several weeks into the experiment, Bongiorni hit her first roadblock. Her four-year-old son needed shoes and an exhaustive search of surrounding shopping centres could not unearth a single shoe made outside of China. And so she turned to the Internet. And then to some shopping catalogues. "I would dial up the catalogues' customer service numbers and try not to sound totally crazy when I asked if they could tell me specifically what country the shoes were made in," she said. In the end it took Bongiorni about two and a half weeks to locate a pair of Italian runners -- at an outrageous price -- while she fretted about the long-term cost the project was exacting on her son's by now uncomfortable feet. Her campaign to oust China had yielded its first valuable lesson. "I came to appreciate that there's all the worrying aspects of exports from China but then I can see that for someone of limited means there's a tremendous benefit to be able to put shoes on your child's feet for not very much money," she said. Her experiment illustrates the dilemma governments face as some political leaders and human rights campaigners, angered over China's crackdown on Tibet, demand a boycott of the Olympic games in Beijing in August. Dublin South East Fianna Fail TD Chris Andrews called on the Olympic Council of Ireland to withdraw the Irish team from the opening ceremony of the Games. He said: "Ireland has always stood up for and upheld the human rights agenda internationally. I believe that we must do so now at this crucial juncture." With China accused of supporting genocide in Darfur and ruthlessly suppressing political dissent at home, some activists have even called for a consumer boycott of Chinese goods. But banning China from Irish homes -- and from homes across the globe -- may, as Sara Bongiorni discovered, be a lot harder than we think. From Barbie dolls, to lamps, toothpaste, furniture, skateboards, and every electrical appliance imaginable, the most basic modern home is inundated with products made in China. Even the food stocked on our pantry shelves -- and the drugs in our medicine cabinets -- are likely to have several ingredients from China, even if the label says the product was made elsewhere. "China in recent years has grown tremendously in its role as an exporter of food and pharmaceutical ingredients -- and there is really no labeling to tell you about those components of medicines as far as where they come from," said Bongiorni. So how do consumers, eager to make a human rights statement, take on the world's largest exporter that generates hundreds of billions of dollars in yearly trade? "It's really a situation where it can't be done," said Brendan Waldron, Vice Chairman of the Ireland-China Association. "They are so much part of the world business. They are as important to us as we are to them for trade," he said. According to Waldron, Chinese imports into Ireland each year -- ranging from construction materials to household appliances -- are worth about five and a half billion dollars. And with rising wage costs in Ireland, companies eager to save money are looking to China for products that are made by cheap, non-unionised workers. But sourcing from China comes at a price for international companies who must weigh their savings against allegations of dismal pay and terrible conditions for Chinese workers. Last year, investigators reportedly discovered four sweatshops -- making official Olympic goods -- that were employing children as young as 12 years old in double shifts, and docking pay for labourers who spent more than 15 minutes in the toilet. Back in Baton Rouge as the year progressed, Sara Bongiorni found that life without China was a bumpy one. At one point her liquidiser broke -- followed by the coffee machine -- necessitating a hot summer without smoothies and many badly brewed cups of coffee. Bemused relatives and friends pitched in and bought non-Chinese products for her children's birthday gifts -- with one notable exception. "My mother," says Bongiorni, "who from the beginning suspected that I was unfairly singling out China for poor treatment." Bongiorni's children were also un-amused by aspects of the project, in particular their beautiful new wooden toys, bought at great expense from the US and Germany. "Our children like cheap, colourful plastic stuff and that comes almost exclusively from China," said Bongiorni. And so, as her project wound down at the end of a long, China-less year, Bongiorni faced the inevitable conclusion -- that life was simply much easier with a little piece of China in your home. "The big conclusion in the book was coming to terms with the fact that we are so dependent on and connected to China and the rest of the world," she said. "I don't think there's any getting away from it at this point. We've come too far down the road to step back now." 
