china
{ Colette Browne 
    December 15 2014 11:50 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/colette-browne/chinas-economic-power-cant-be-ignored-nor-can-its-deeply-authoritarian-nature-30839807.html }
Did you hear the one about the communist country beating the United States at capitalism? According to the International Monetary Fund, China will overtake the US as the biggest economy in the world this year in terms of purchasing power parity. And, it all started in Ireland. Or, at least, we can claim some small part in its economic success. Deng Xiaoping, the man credited with liberalising China's economy and creating a "socialist market economy", championed the creation of Special Economic Zones with a focus on export markets following a visit by his officials to Shannon soon after he took office in 1978. Long before we cut our corporate tax rate to 12.5pc, the Chinese were offering businesses in these zones tax breaks and subsidies to attract foreign direct investment. By 1990, just one of these zones accounted for 20pc of all of China's exports. Today, pick up any product in any shop, and there's a good chance that it has been manufactured in China. A small cluster of towns in Zhejiang province, located just south of Shanghai, make a third of the world's socks, 40pc of its ties and 70pc of its cigarette lighters. More than 80pc of the toys that children will find under the tree on Christmas morning will have come from China. Perhaps the most bewildering figure of all relates to its vast population. There are an estimated 44,000 people born there every day - meaning it could repopulate Ireland in just 90 days. This unprecedented level of growth has come at a cost. The economy may have surged past the US, but so too has income inequality. The environmental toll has also been immense. In between the gleaming skyscrapers that dominate Beijing's skyline is the incongruous sight of coal-fired power plants belching plumes of acrid smoke into the air. When I arrived in the city last week, smog levels were measured at more than 20 times what the World Health Organisation deems a safe level. During a trip to Tiananmen Square, it was difficult to discern the massive mural of Chairman Mao through the suffocating smog. The result is that everyone in China is obsessed with the air quality and within five minutes of starting a conversation with anyone living there, they will have whipped out their phone to show you a pollution app which measures the levels of smog. It's not just the air quality that has suffered. Earlier this year China's Ministry of Land and Resources revealed that 60pc of its underground water resources were also polluted. While China's income inequality and environmental crisis will not stop Ireland doing business with it, it gets trickier when it comes to politics. China is the only one of the world's 10 biggest economies that doesn't hold competitive elections. The government claims its legitimacy, not from a democratic mandate, but from the tangible improvements its economic policies have wrought in the lives of hundreds of millions of its citizens. Today, instead of promising elections, the focus of Chinese President Xi Jinping is on rooting out corruption within the party and advocating frugality among its members, some of whom have used their privileged positions to amass huge fortunes. While China has all of the outward trappings of a thrusting economic powerhouse - a rapidly growing middle-class, ostentatious cars and designer brands - its media is state controlled, dissidents are routinely imprisoned and the internet is censored, with website such as Gmail and Twitter blocked. Watching CNN in Beijing an Irish journalist was shocked when it repeatedly cut out as she tried to watch a segment about democracy protests in Hong Kong. President Michael D Higgins raised human rights issues with Chinese President Xi, during their private meeting on Tuesday, but he also broached the subject in a speech he gave at the home of Sun Yat-sen, using one of his favourite authors to do so. Noting that George Bernard Shaw had visited the same house in 1933, he said it had been a "period of narrowness and authoritarianism" in Ireland when there had been hostility to "free intellectual ideas". "Intellectual work, books and reflections, while edifying for yourself, have to be delivered into the public world as an act of citizenship," he said, even if it is sometimes dangerous to do so. He also intimated that the West lecturing China on human rights issues would be hypocritical, using another Shaw quote. "It is not for me, belonging as I do to a quarter of the globe which is mismanaging its affairs in a ruinous fashion, to pretend to advise an ancient people striving to set its house in order," he said. Adopting this nuanced, placatory tone, Mr Higgins deftly walked a delicate diplomatic tightrope. The State cannot ignore the world's fastest growing economy but neither can it simply wish China's authoritarianism away. Irish Independent 
