china
{ Tim Hames 
    April 04 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/righteous-revenge-as-bush-shows-his-true-colours-and-old-cold-war-alliances-re-emerge-26089058.html }
AT first sight Hainan island, off the coast of China, is an odd location for an international incident. This tropical and tranquil spot is not the most AT first sight Hainan island, off the coast of China, is an odd location for an international incident. This tropical and tranquil spot is not the most obvious place to provoke a war of words about the fate of an alleged spy plane, although the incident threatens to become the focus for an awkward relationship between the United States and China for years to come. Then again, Hainan island is not so much larger than Taiwan, which is the underlying source of this dispute in the first place. And George W. Bush, son of the most pro-Chinese President in recent US history, would seem to be an improbable opponent for Beijing. Yet his administration has apparently conducted a security review which all but condemns China as America's potential enemy number one. There is not a new Cold War in the Pacific Ocean but a frigid peace is becoming apparent. The United States and China have shifted from the (always implausible) "strategic partnership" declared by President Clinton to the role of "strategic competitor" envisaged by President Bush. His father, a former envoy to China in the mid-1970s, who befriended and protected the then disgraced Deng Xiaoping and adopted him as his bridge partner, might have bent over backwards to understand the psychology of the Chinese Communist Party. His son, by contrast, is bending over backwards to listen to those who consider China an inevitable opponent of the United States. One Bush adviser allegedly contended during the presidential election campaign that "Lenin said the capitalists would sell us the rope with which we would hang them. We have no intention of affording China the same privilege." But no one then took such comments seriously. This was simply campaign rhetoric, surely? After all, Bill Clinton had, as Governor of Arkansas, slammed George Bush Sr for "coddling the butchers of Beijing" but had reversed that stance in office within a year and spent his final 12 months in office lobbying Congress, with ultimate success, to permit China to become a member of the World Trade Organisation. Bush II would presumably also talk tough on the stump, then knuckle down to business all the same. In fact, son and father are proving very different political creatures. This is despite the fact that most of the foreign policy team which holds power in Washington now earned their spurs under the first President Bush. The Chinese Government assumed that the then Governor of Texas would be no threat to their interests. In so far as they had a choice, for reasons of family association alone they preferred him to Vice-President Gore. This has proved a severe miscalculation. The Chinese have underestimated both the continued pull of the Far East as an issue in American life and the emergence of an improbable but effective alliance between conservative Christians and hard-nosed national security specialists within the Republican party. The Christian Right's vigorous hatred of "Red China" dates back to late 1945, when John Birch, an otherwise obscure USAF officer and part-time Christian missionary, was killed (probably accidentally) by Chinese communists. He was immediately lionised as the first victim of the Cold War, betrayed by a political establishment which was "soft on the reds." The far-right society which adopted his name was a powerful influence on Republican Party politics for the next two decades. Today, the truly powerful lobbies in Washington on China policy are religious activists and security intellectuals. This may be the most effective alliance of convenience struck anywhere in recent years. In the 1980s the "human rights" lobby in Washington consisted of ultra-liberal Democrats outraged by the massacre in Tiananmen Square and Hollywood actors angered by the treatment of Tibet. They might have been capable of generating publicity but were not especially effective. The Republicans were willing to follow the pro-Chinese lead established by Nixon, Reagan and Bush. The Democrats, despite some posturing, could see no alternative policy either. The old Republican opposition to Communist China, based on a stalwart defence of Taiwan, appeared to be archaic and incredible. It was little wonder that many observers assumed, in the words of one anonymous US Senator, that as far as the Chinese were concerned, "The reds are no longer under the bed but inside the sheets with big business." Resistance to this new order appeared feeble and hopeless. The "God Squad" from the Christian Right, by contrast, is much more credible. The Christian Right in the United States became steadily more enraged by examples of the persecution of Christians and other religious activists as the 1990s progressed. The callous character of China's "one child" policy has also become a matter of outrage in the United States, even leading to commited evangelicals and radical feminists adopting a common cause. They have found a sympathetic ear within the Bush Administration. A President who wants to retain the support of the religious Right, and who is sincerely religious himself, has embraced a new agenda. He cannot and will not promise to deliver the criminalisation of abortion to these activists, but has numerous other issues with which to placate them. China is one of them. Virtually no protests about religious persecution were heard when Clinton was still in office. Bush condemned China for it while seated about a foot away from the Vice-Premier of that country. The "God Squad" would be rather ineffective if it were not in alliance with the security specialists. Most Republican foreign policy analysts have become convinced that China, not Russia, will be the major threat to American interests in the future. Donald Rumsfeld, the US Defence Secretary, has presented the President with a new blueprint for the future deployment of American forces abroad. He has recommended that troop levels in Europe be reduced as resources are redeployed to the Pacific Ocean. While the extent of this shift has undoubtedly been exaggerated, something fundamental is happening. The assumption of the Clintonites that rising prosperity would inevitably turn China into an amiable democracy within a decade is viewed with contempt by the new men in Washington. American power will be projected in the Pacific as forcefully as possible while the Chinese military remains underdeveloped. Any future Democratic President will find he has little option but to follow the same course. China has always exercised a disproportionate hold on the American political psyche. At the turn of the 20th century, when European commentators tended to dismiss US foreign policy as "isolationist" (because it was uninterested in Europe), US diplomats were already deeply involved in Chinese matters. Americans thought of China in those days as a political and cultural protegee. It was the one part of the world where Americans were the dominant ambassadors of organised religion. Numerous Americans were in Peking to encourage the development of US-style democracy. It was in defence of the declared US "open door" policy to China that Washington and Tokyo clashed in the years leading up to Pearl Harbor. It is not fanciful to argue that if the US had not regarded China as a favoured daughter, American entry to the Second World War would have been impossible. This benevolence continued into the postwar era. At the San Francisco conference in 1945, it was the United States which insisted that China must become a permanent member of the forthcoming United Nations Security Council and thus possess the all-important veto. In a sense this prospective status was ridiculous. China was to be afforded the same standing as the US, the USSR, Britain and France the three victors of the war and their prominent ally. China was then a Fourth World nation racked by civil war, incapable of defending its frontiers and with scant capacity to play any part in policing the planet. The US won the political war over the future of the UN, only to be humiliated shortly afterwards. The Communists, led by Mao Zedong, whom the Americans had either dismissed as inconsequential or had assumed could be co-opted or bribed, swept to power in China. For 25 years the United Nations had to operate under the truly farcical pretence that Taiwan, an island which during the 1960s had a population similar to that of the South East of England, was the "legitimate Government" in China, while some 750 million people were under the rule of Mao. The UN, despite howls of protest from Washington, finally abandoned this charade in 1972. That shift only proved an incentive for the US to strive through diplomatic means to reassert its influence once more in China. Richard Nixon, the old Cold Warrior, visited the country in 1972 and effectively sealed an anti-Soviet alliance. His brand of ruthless pragmatism chimed well with a Communist Party which had become weary of the excesses associated with the Cultural Revolution. For years to come indeed, until his death Nixon was a revered figure in Beijing. His initiative was eventually followed by Jimmy Carter's formal decision to recognise the Communists as the official regime in China (three decades after this was obvious to almost everyone else). Ronald Reagan was elected in 1980 on a "pro-Taiwan" ticket but soon decided that he would rather not disturb the split in the Communist world. George Bush had more enthusiasm for Beijing than for many sections of the Republican party. The pro-Beijing era is drawing to a close in Washington. Even before the present spat, China had been stunned to find that Bush the Younger was a very different proposition to what it had expected. His meeting with Vice-Premier Qian Qichen in Washington last week was reserved in the extreme. The President had few qualms about telling the press how much he disagreed with his visitor. Qichen, obviously taken aback, had to sit, smile and accept it. He had thought that Bush would agree informally to limit arms sales to Taiwan in future. No such hints were forthcoming. The Chinese military, a distinct political force in its own right, considered the whole episode demeaning. They seem to have forced the hands of their nominal political masters over how to conduct matters on Hainan island. An open conflict is not inevitable, however. Those who argue that open trade with China may yet trigger political change inside the Communist Party, or affect the balance between the party and the military, have a powerful case. The pull of history is for the US and China to view themselves as guardians of either side of the Pacific Ocean with a mutual interest in order and prosperity. The days of a cosy relationship between the two states are probably numbered, though. This is especially true with a Republican President, a narrowly Republican Congress and such powerful interest groups as the Christian Coalition and the various military specialists spread around Washington. The central issue in American politics five decades ago, raised by Republicans, was "Who lost China?" And no matter what has happened to one EP-3 aeroplane on Hainan island, the question of how to deal with China will almost certainly be the most pressing foreign policy question for the US in the decade to come. The Times, London. 
