china
{  
    October 30 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/china-dragon-has-voracious-appetite-for-investment-25928506.html }
With its vast pool of cheap labour and poor regulation, the country is now a magnet for  investors and companies. CHARLIE WESTON reports from China FOR many people in the West, it is a frightening prospect. The emergence of China along with other parts of the Far East as the new workshops of the world pose a huge threat to manufacturing jobs. China with its population of 1.3bn people has an inexhaustible supply of labour, so it can produce goods for around one tenth of the cost of manufacturing in Ireland. And the fact that it does not play by the rules gives the country an unfair advantage, critics say. China flouts contract agreements; there are no protection for workers, it allows environmental standards that would cause massive street protests in Europe, and it does not respect intellectual property rights. That is why there is a continuing and merciless shift of manufacturing jobs out of Europe and America and into China. According to that view, the future is bleak for us Western workers. However, smart investors have seized on the opportunities presented by the double digit growth of Far Eastern countries to buy into the Chinese economic surge. Property investors have been snapping up apartments in boomtown Shanghai, and switched-on investors have been pumping spare cash into some of the plethora of investments funds that invest in Chinese and other Asian companies. These investors have decided that if the Chinese Dragon is devouring the remnants of the so-called Celtic Tiger, then the Far East is the place to put your money. China may be becoming the sweatshop of the world, but there is nowhere else growing at the same rate at the moment. The focus on China has become sharper since President Mary McAleese paid an official visit to China last month, accompanied by the largest ever trade mission to leave Ireland, involving some 82 companies. Firms like electric heater maker Glen Dimplex and animal nutrition company Alltech opened factories in China during Mrs McAleese's visit. Now small private investors can get fired up by the Chinese Dragon too by, for example, buying into investments provided by London-based financial institutions. Take the Templeton China Fund. It aims for long-term capital appreciation by investing mainly in the shares of companies based in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. In the year to date, the China Fund has recored a rise of a staggering 38.18pc in dollar terms. In the past five years the fund has risen by a highly impressive 98pc. Included in the Luxembourg-registered fund are shares in the likes of China Mobile, PetroChina Co and China Resources Enterprises. Just 35pc of the investments are in China, with 30pc in Hong Kong and 24.4pc in Taiwan. (Contact 0044 2072087040 or www.franklintempleton.co.uk). Investment giant Schroder also has a fund focused on China. The Schroder International Selection Fund - Greater China A is a $72.2m fund launched in 1997. In the year to date, the fund is up 46pc and has surged 80pc in five years. However, it is worth noting that the fund is open to Irish investors, but it is not registered in Ireland which will limit the protections afforded to investors here under Irish legislation. The Luxembourg registered fund is mainly invested in financial institutions like HSBC bank and Hang Seng Bank. Again the fund is invested in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. (Contact 0044 800718777 or www.schroders.co.uk). You need two forms of identification to sign up for the fund. Invesco has an Asia Enterprise Fund open to Irish investors which invests in smaller Asian companies with a market capitalisation of less than $1bn. This fund includes companies in Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong (which provides the Chinese element of the fund), Korea and Taiwan among others. (Contact 0044 1534607607 or www.invescooffshore.com). Investors should note that in common with a lot of like funds, there is an initial charge for buying in of a steep 5.25pc of each contribution. Then there is an annual management charge of between 0.45pc and 1.5pc. Other charges to watch for include fees and expenses of the custodian trustee, the registrar and the auditors. There is a minimum investment of $2,500. HSBC (the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation) is an acknowledged expert on the Far East, thanks to its roots there. Now headquartered in London, HSBC Holdings plc is one of the largest banking and financial services organisations in the world. HSBC has six funds focused on the Far East. These include HSBC Chinese Equity Fund, Asia Ex-Japan Equity Fund, Asia Ex-Japan Equity Opportunity Fund, Hong Kong Equity Fund, Singapore Equity Fund and Japanese Equity Fund. Chinese Equity is a growth-oriented fund in companies with significant operations on mainland China. Managed by Hong Kong-based Richard Wong, it has appreciated by 43pc in the past year and by 169pc in the past five years. The fund size is $556m, and the initial charge for investing is 5.54pc with a 1.5pc annual charge. There is a minimum investment of $5,000. The fund is exposed to stocks in the oil and gas, electricity, engineering and telecoms sectors. HSBC has an excellent record as a fund manager. It manages the fund for Acorn Life which was among the best performing long-term pension fund in the Irish market last year. (Contact 0044 2079918888 or www.assetmanagement.hsbc.com for more details on the HSBC funds). However, as in the case of all funds, past performance is no guide to future out-turns. Additional risks come from the lack of corporate governance in China, underdeveloped financial structures, little regulation etc. Many an investor who pumped money into a fund that invested in an emerging market can testify to the risks involved. For the brave property investor anxious to dip their toes in the Chinese waters, a company called Shanghai Vision offers a chance to invest in the fastest growing city in China. Property in China is, by Western standards, very cheap. The massive scale of foreign direct investment flowing into the country and the rapid upgrading of its infrastructure point to massive growth potential. Shanghai Vision is headed up by Corkman David Cunningham and can be contacted on 087 2730392, or 0044 7966665768, or www.shanghaivision.com. However, high-rise Shanghai is slowing sinking and building standards in the city are notoriously poor. 
