china
{  
    September 08 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/freeman-is-investment-in-the-yellow-pearl-at-your-own-peril-25896818.html }
A WISTFUL Michael Smurfit observed that 25 years ago his was the only helicopter at the Galway Races.  This year there were 69! It also shows how much Ireland has changed that Dublin's leading stockbroker could pack the Berkeley Court's ballroom with investors for presentations on China's economic prospects last week. A WISTFUL Michael Smurfit observed that 25 years ago his was the only helicopter at the Galway Races. This year there were 69! It also shows how much Ireland has changed that Dublin's leading stockbroker could pack the Berkeley Court's ballroom with investors for presentations on China's economic prospects last week. Punters were riveted, their questions penetrating: implications of the one-child policy, whether democracy would accommodate economic liberalisation, whether there is sufficient oil to fuel rampant demand and the environmental implications. China is the biggest economic story of our generation. Together with India, China drives world growth in the way that Europe did from the 15th century, or the new world from the nineteenth. China is only three years into a decade-long capital replacement-led boom. But labour mobility will fuel the world's longest capital investment boom of over 15 years. The numbers do not show overheating: domestic savings fund investment. Government is alert to dangers of irrational investment in property or unneeded capacity. There is minimal inflation, even in asset prices. Corporate profitability remains strong. China has now reached critical mass, and is no longer so dependent on export-fuelled growth. Clusters of related businesses are self-reinforcing, as they are in northern Italian shoes or Silicon Valley. Spin-offs from successful businesses create their own competition - making foreign competitors less relevant. The drivers are specialisation and scale, just as in European and American booms. Spending power and the collapse of tariffs make it a market. Rising costs on the coast reduce scope for deflationary competition on price and galvanise China's drive for better quality. The impact of Chinese growth is greater than for developed economies, as Chinese spend four times as high a proportion of additional income on all goods, from cars to gadgets. People lump all China together, but it's economically a continent - like Europe had the Roman Empire held together. Per capita income levels vary as much as for Asia as a whole: remote provinces are poorer than India or Vietnam, while Shanghai is richer than Malaysia. Twelve provinces are richer than Indonesia - only eight poorer. For decades, China dominated many metals and industrial minerals export markets, frequently disrupting competition with variable quality and price-dumping. Now China also dominates much consumption, including cement and steel. Before, they drove prices down - now, they drive commodities up. Eliminating bottlenecks requires vast investment, depressing profits, driving costs up and again fuelling inflation. Cosy assumptions about dead inflation may not survive the twin impact of Chinese demand for commodities and skilled labour. Will growth smooth or exacerbate Chinese banks' high level of non-performing loans? No combination of policy mistakes, bursting bubbles or shocks will stop China displacing first Japan, and eventually the USA as the world's largest economy. Though China is huge, the current growth surge is proportionately similar to those of Japan, Korea and Taiwan in recent decades. This creates bottlenecks: they must move 200 million people over the next 20 years. There are skill mismatches and even labour shortages, exacerbated by authoritarian controls. But entrepreneurial instincts create a flourishing underground economy. There will be booms and busts along the way, but these will change only the dates, not the trend. This has implications for business. Instead of restricting visas for young Chinese, we should encourage them to form Irish links, studying and working here. Chinese leaders have authoritarian instincts - especially at home. Conflict is bad for business, as India found regarding Kashmir in 2002. But it's unrealistic that China and Japan remain strategic dwarfs. None of this surprises economic historians: for most of human history China was the world's largest economy, a pioneer in metallurgy, chemistry and engineering. In the 15th century, China staged what remained the world's largest maritime expedition for centuries - only, like Japan, to turn inward. China fell from about 33pc of the world economy in 1820 to a low of 6pc during Mao's Cultural Revolution. Our abhorrence of state brutality blinds us to the fact that it was Deng, not FDR, who improved the lot of hundreds of millions by launching his 1970s reforms. When Harvard Business School introduced a case study on Deng's reforms in 1979, most students thought the professors wacky. In retrospect, the trend seems obvious. China's resurgence was an inevitable surprise. Arguably, Mao was just another Emperor, keeping living standards low and forcing people to work to restore China's strength through rapid industrialisation. He was relaxed about Hong Kong, knowing that time solves most problems. The USSR refused to follow the USA's proliferation of nuclear technology to its closest neighbour and China found itself isolated and vulnerable. Its cottage industries largely failed, with poor quality and low productivity. The problem was the command system: even hard workers need incentives to galvanise entrepreneurship. Agricultural reforms led to a 50pc productivity surge: as Deng argued, a cat's colour matters not, as long as it catches mice. The big leap forward was only in 1993, with World Trade Organisation membership in 2001 signalling that reforms were irreversible. This stretched ideological minds somewhat: in 1994, I saw scarlet banners over Beijing factories extolling workers to maximise profit as their proletarian duty! Seen from the long perspective, current Washington hysteria is a classic example of imperial over-stretch: a great empire seeking to compensate for steady erosion of economic dominance by asserting its military strength. China's focus on making money also falls into the pattern: in 1880, when US industry surpassed Britain's as the biggest worldwide, the US spent under 1pc of GDP on defence. Its army was smaller than Bulgaria's, its navy smaller than Argentina's. It was the world's emerging market, focusing on opening the west. China will fuel a commodities boom for 20 and maybe 50 years. You don't have to be in China to profit - which is fortunate, since it's hard for foreigners to make money. Property rights are now as secure - for locals - as they can be in developing countries. So far, mafia influence is limited by authoritarianism. But different practices apply to foreigners. Domestic stock markets are poorly regulated, so the only prudent share investment is via Chinese stocks listed on properly regulated international exchanges. How investors respond to China's resurgence will determine whether for them it's a Yellow Peril or Pearl. 
