china
{  
    April 27 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/chinas-mythical-loot-26240864.html }
Tapping China's potential is not easy, says Anthony  O'Brien The China Dream Joe Studwell Profile Books, stg£15 SINCE Marco Polo's time, China has seemingly promised unimaginable wealth to anyone who could tap its vast domestic market. In 1840 an Englishman wrote, "If we could persuade the Chinese to lengthen their shirt-tails by one foot, the Lancashire cotton mills would run round the clock!" American tobacco pioneer James Buchanan Duke looked at China's vast population, then 430 million, and said, "That's where we're going to sell cigarettes." In 1984, IBM chairman Ralph Pfeiffer mused, "If we could sell one IBM PC for every 100 Chinese or every 1,000 or every 10,000." As Joe Studwell's excellent The China Dream shows, that's the lure of China. With a quarter of the world's population, China must become the world's largest untapped market? Actually, no. In the 1990s, following Deng Xiaoping's pronouncement "to get rich is glorious", western corporations flocked to harvest China's newly "opened" economy. Ignoring that it was tightly controlled by a stifling bureaucracy, they poured billions into deals and joint ventures which never bore fruit. The 'dream' market has not emerged. Nor is it likely to, any time soon. Some 900 million of the supposed 1.3 billion consumers-in-waiting are peasants with minimal income; 250 million roam coastal cities desperate for work. China's communist economics still preserve vast urban industries, obsolete state-owned enterprises which devour resources. Most would be bankrupt in a genuine open market. China's record 1990 growth figures now look suspect. The few companies that did well were mainly owned by Hong Kong and Taiwan Chinese exploiting the mainland's extremely cheap labour force for low value-added manufacturing. Geared entirely to re-export, this does not contribute much to China's moribund domestic economy. The huge state-owned enterprises claim 40 per cent of China's exports, but these are mainly dumped abroad, subsidised by a Government which cannot pay pensions and welfare. The few foreign companies that profited in China made things like mobile phones, which the Chinese could not yet make themselves, or simply ignored bureaucratic hurdles by operating illegally. Studwell's detailed history of the 'dream' shows that China's economy is in serious danger of collapse due to central control of every aspect of the economy. With no independent judiciary, the cult of secrecy, political interference and falsification results in massive corruption. Millions of invested dollars disappear into officials' pockets. The government's economic 'reforms' simply shuffle bad debts from one sector to another. China's economy will stagnate as long as the Party retains control. Studwell closes with the tale of US General Motors, which invested $750m to produce Buicks in Shanghai for the China market. Hoping to sell one million carsannually by 2000, they peaked at 30,000. GM hopes to make it big in China by 2025! The China Dream is an astonishing book. Its sheer pace and the scale of delusion it depicts make gripping reading. It is a must-have for every board director who thinks China offers easy money to the fortune-hunter. Essential reading for every politician who kowtows to China for a share of the mythical loot. Anthony O'Brien is an artist and a founder member of Tibet Support Group Ireland 
