sport gaa
{ By Reuters   Published:  20:41, 2 October 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-6232909/Maple-Leafs-lose-two-goalies-eve-season.html }
The Toronto Maple Leafs lost two goaltenders on waiver claims Tuesday, just one day before they open their season against the Montreal Canadiens. Curtis McElhinney was claimed by the Carolina Hurricanes and Calvin Pickard was claimed by the Philadelphia Flyers on the day NHL teams are required to trim their rosters to 23 players. Toronto's top goalie will again be Frederik Andersen and Garret Sparks will open the season as a backup. "Good for Mac. Good for Pick. Too bad for our depth," Maple Leafs coach Mike Babcock told reporters on Tuesday. McElhinney was 11-5-1 with a 2.14 goals-against average in 18 appearances (15 starts) for Toronto last season. The 35-year-old is 62-71-13 with a 2.86 GAA in 186 career NHL appearances with six different franchises. The 26-year-old Pickard played in just game for the Maple Leafs last season -- he allowed four goals and made 24 saves -- after seeing action in 50 games for the Colorado Avalanche the previous season. He is 28-44-7 with a 2.78 GAA in 87 career appearances over four NHL seasons. "(Carolina) did an unbelievable in getting Mac," Babcock said. "Great person, great family, good pro, does it right every day, good goaltender. Quality man. "Pick is another quality, quality guy. Unbelievable last year for Sparks, helping him become a good pro. Good numbers in the National Hockey League, so he'll do a good job, but he's a great teammate and so we're going to miss those guys." The Hurricanes were looking for goaltender help with Scott Darling (lower-body injury) expected to be sidelined into at least the middle of the month. "Curtis is a proven NHL goaltender," Carolina general manager Don Waddell said in a statement. "Scott Darling is dealing with an injury and we see this as an opportunity to solidify our depth at the position." The Flyers will open the season without Michal Neuvirth (groin). --Field Level Media 
