{ By Stephanie Linning For Mailonline   Published:  15:36, 11 July 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-5942635/Harry-Meghan-enjoy-spot-childs-play-historic-visit-Dublins-Croke-Park.html }
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex couldn't keep the smiles from their faces as they spent time meeting children in Dublin.   The newlyweds looked perfectly at ease joking and teasing the young sports fans during a visit to Croke Part on their whistle-stop tour of the Irish capital on Wednesday. Three-year-old Walter Cullen was snapped reaching for Meghan's hair while another young supporter tugged on Harry's beard - much to the prince's delight.  The Duke of Sussex, 33, who enjoys a close relationship with his niece and nephews, didn't miss a beat and smiled happily back at the cheeky youngster.  Harry followed in his footsteps of his grandmother the Queen by making the symbolic visit to Croke Park. The stadium is steeped in history and witnessed one of the most infamous incidents of Ireland's War of Independence when British soldiers opened fire on a crowd of spectators in 1920, killing 14 people.  Today the Duke and Duchess watched dozens of children playing Gaelic football and hurling.   They walked hand-in-hand around the sprawling pitch as Gaelic Athletic Association  representatives talked the couple through the rules of Gaelic games.  Croke Park is one of Europe's largest stadiums, with a capacity of 82,300. 1864-1913: The history of the stadium dates back to 1864 when the grounds were owned privately before being bought by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) in 1913 1918: The GAA was declared a dangerous organisation by the British Government and gaelic games were banned before 54,000 members defied the ban, playing games at 3pm across Ireland. This day became known as 'Gaelic Sunday' 1920: On November 21, 13 spectators and Tipperary footballer Michael Hogan, died in Croke Park when British Troops entered and opened fire during a challenge match between Tipperary and Dublin. Over 10,000 people attended the match which become known as 'Bloody Sunday' 1963: Princess Grace and Prince Rainier of Monaco attended the All-Ireland Hurling Final 1972: Muhammad Ali fought Al 'Blue' Lewis in Croke Park 1985: U2 play their first concert in Croke Park 2003: Nelson Mandela, U2, The Corrs and Muhammed Ali attend the opening ceremony of the Special Olympic Games in Croke Park 2011: The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh visited the arena, as part of their historic state visit to Ireland 2012: Xi Jingping, the Vice-President of the People's Republic of China, paid a visit to Croke Park on the second day of his official visit to Ireland   They spoke to young children about their involvement in sport and what it meant to them playing at Croke Park. Earlier, Harry's mind was on another sport when he gave England a boost ahead of their crucial World Cup match, declaring football was coming home as he met Ireland's president. The duke was asked by a reporter if 'football was coming home' - the chant from the hugely popular Three Lions anthem. As Harry and Meghan posed for a picture with President Michael D Higgins and his wife Sabina, the duke replied laughing 'most definitely'. The duke and duchess met the president and his wife at the head of state's official residence Aras an Uachtarain, the former British Viceregal lodge in Dublin's Phoenix Park. They rang a Peace Bell installed in the garden of the grand 18th century house in 2008 to mark the 10th anniversary of Northern Ireland's Good Friday peace agreement and toured the grounds with the presidential couple and their two Bernese mountain dogs, Brod and Sioda. Meghan, who along with Harry signed the visitors' book at the Aras, wore a Roland Mouret dress for the presidential visit. She later changed into a black trouser suit.   Elizabeth Ring, a 19-year-old law student, said of her conversation with the couple: 'Meghan said Dublin was her favourite city. Harry said he'd come back with his jacket over his head, incognito.' Emma Boden, 10, gave the couple a handmade card. 'Meghan said thank you very much and she told me that she loved a hand written card,' she said. 'Then she shook my hand. She smells really, really nice and now my hand smells really nice as well. I don't think I'll wash them for a long time.' David Balfany, on holiday in Dublin from the United States, said he had invited Meghan to a student reunion at Northwestern University where they were both students. 'She told me she didn't think she would be able to make it,' he said. Pauline Beatty was delighted to have got a hug and kiss from Harry.  'When I asked him for the hug he said: 'I can't hug you because then I'll have to hug everybody else.' So I just grabbed him. He was scarlet.' Two girls wearing 'When Harry Met Meghan' T-shirts were very excited to meet the couple. 'Harry asked me where we got the T-shirts and I told him Asda,' said Stephanie Jordan from Belfast. 'He asked if they were really selling them there?' The couple later stopped for a private lunch before continuing on the packed final day of their pre-Brexit charm offensive in Ireland, which comes less than a month after Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall visited the country. 
