{ By Reuters   Published:  23:01, 5 July 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-5923343/Lamoriello-Isles-did-Tavares.html }
The New York Islanders brought in Lou Lamoriello as president of hockey operations with the hope the Hall of Fame executive could get a deal done to keep star center John Tavares from signing elsewhere as a free agent. It didn't work out, as Tavares joined the Toronto Maple Leafs on a seven-year contract worth $11 million annually, but Lamoriello isn't lamenting the effort he and the Isles made to retain the former No. 1 overall pick. "First of all, we did everything I think we possibly could to keep John," Lamoriello told SiriusXM NHL Network Radio on Thursday. "He's been an exceptional player for the Islanders and is a quality player. But he now is with another team, so that's the past. "What we're doing right now is trying to get knowledge of who we are, that (includes) myself, and learning more about each and every one of the players we have here. We'll get [new head coach] Barry and I and our staff, we'll get prepared for next year." The Islanders reportedly offered Tavares $11.25 million annually on an eight-year deal, but the 27-year-old spurned them to join his hometown team. Even with Tavares' 84 points (37 goals, 47 assists) in the lineup, the Islanders finished 35-37-10 and missed the playoffs for the second straight year last season. However, Lamoriello doesn't believe the club is rebuilding under Trotz, who just led the Washington Capitals to a Stanley Cup championship. "There's a couple of exceptional hockey players here in my opinion as far as their talent," Lamoriello said. The Isles have made a handful of moves since the start of free agency Sunday, including signing forwards Leo Komarov, Valtteri Filppula and Tom Kuhnhackl, acquiring forward Matt Martin and inking goalie Robin Lehner on a one-year deal. New York allowed more goals (296) than any other team last season. Lehner, who turns 27 this month, is a rebound candidate, having posted a 3.01 goals-against average for the Buffalo Sabres in 53 games (50 starts) in 2017-18 after moderate success (2.68 GAA, .920 save percentage) in 59 games (58 starts) a season prior. "I think Robin Lehner is a unique case and a unique situation for many reasons," Lamoriello said. "He has something that you can't teach, he has size and he has talent. Hopefully our coaching staff can get him back to the form that he was at. I spent a considerable amount of time with him over the last 48 hours and he's determined to get himself back in the forefront." --Field Level Media 
