{ By Reuters   Published:  19:44, 1 June 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-5796449/Impact-look-end-scoreless-streak-against-visiting-Dynamo.html }
The Montreal Impact just can't seem to find the back of the net. Montreal has been shut out four consecutive times and has gone 382 minutes without a goal entering Saturday's home contest against the Houston Dynamo. Only two teams have scored fewer goals than Montreal's 14. Overall, the Impact (3-10-0) have dropped eight of their last nine matches. Montreal lost 2-0 to Minnesota in its most recent contest. "We had opportunities," Impact coach Remi Garde told reporters, "but there was a lack of skill, talent and willpower." Houston (5-4-3) is coming off a 2-1 setback against Real Salt Lake after being unbeaten (3-0-1) over the previous four matches. The Dynamo is tied for the league lead with 27 goals. Forward Alberth Elis has scored four goals over the past three games to raise his season total to eight, which is tied for second in the MLS. Forward Mauro Manotas has five goals, while midfielder Tomas Martinez and forward Romell Quioto have three apiece. Dynamo defender Alejandro Fuenmayor will be sidelined while serving the final match of a two-game suspension for a dangerous play foul. The defense, missing Fuenmayor, allowed a goal in the 82nd minute in Wednesday's loss to Real Salt Lake as Houston fell to 1-2-3 on the road. "We continue creating options, but we (give) two goals away," Dynamo coach Wilmer Cabrera said after the game. "Last game, every game that we play away we receive two goals. It's still not good enough from our defensive side. As a team, we're not defending very well and that's something that we have to continue pushing." Houston goalkeeper Joe Willis has a 1.71 goals-against average. Midfielder Ignacio Piatti leads the Impact with five goals. Forward Jeisson Vargas has three. Montreal goalkeeper Evan Bush has a 2.23 GAA. Playing at Montreal has been a tough task for Houston. The Impact have won all five meetings and outscored the Dynamo 15-2. --Field Level Media 
