{ By Reuters   Published:  17:54, 26 May 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-5774969/Styles-clash-Crew-visit-Sporting-KC.html }
The Columbus Crew have been downright stingy and possess an MLS season-best streak of 405 minutes without allowing a goal. Meanwhile, Sporting Kansas City have proved potent on offense by scoring two or more goals on seven occasions. Something will have to give when Columbus looks for a fifth straight shutout as well as stretching its unbeaten streak to seven matches when it visits Sporting KC on Sunday at Children's Mercy Park in Kansas City, Kan. The Crew have allowed a league-low 10 goals and goalkeeper Zach Steffen has registered a league-leading six shutouts as strong defense has fueled a strong start for Columbus (7-3-3). But Steffen, who owns a 0.75 goals-against average, knows it won't be easy to keep the streak intact during the contest on the Sporting KC pitch. "They're going to be flying, they're a tough team, a really good team and they like to play and they like to press," Steffen told reporters. "We've just got to stay disciplined and connected and working for each other for 90 minutes." Columbus can move atop the Eastern Conference with a victory, while Sporting KC (7-2-3) already resides in first place in the Western Conference. SKC have scored 24 goals as well as excelled at home with a 4-1-1 mark. The club also is unbeaten in its last three overall games (2-0-1) but its most recent contest was a frustrating 1-1 tie with Minnesota United. "You always feel when you play well in games and don't come away with victories that it's disappointing," SKC forward Johnny Russell told reporters. "For where we want to go and what we want to do this season, we really need to be winning as many games as we can." Russell has been doing his part as he is tied with midfielder Felipe Gutierrez for the team lead with five goals. Gutierrez (sports hernia) will miss his fifth straight game after undergoing surgery. Forward Gyasi Zardes is enjoying a stellar season for Columbus and is tied for the league lead with eight goals. Midfielder Federico Higuain has three goals and a team-leading five assists. However, the Crew have lost each of their last four visits to Kansas City. Their last victory came during the 2012 campaign. SKC goalkeeper Tim Melia has a 1.08 GAA and ranks second in MLS with five shutouts. --Field Level Media 
