sport gaa
{ By Reuters   Published:  03:43, 14 May 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-5725279/Hellebuyck-goalie-Jets-soaring.html }
With their goalie playing well and their fans in good voice, the Winnipeg Jets like their current position. Coming off a 4-2 home victory over the Vegas Golden Knights in the opener of the Western Conference finals on Saturday, the Jets play host to Game 2 on Monday at Bell MTS Place. Roared on by the Manitoba faithful, the Jets jumped out to a 3-0 lead in the first eight minutes Saturday and cruised to the win. Winnipeg fans are witnessing the first NHL conference final in the series history, including both the previous franchise that became the Arizona Coyotes and the current franchise that used to be the Atlanta Thrashers. "The crowd, we feed off that energy right off the start," Jets forward Mathieu Perreault said. "You can't really explain it. It's just something you feel on the inside. It gives you that extra jump, having this crowd behind you, so it was an awesome start for us. Playing with the lead, we've done a great job." Winnipeg goalie Connor Hellebuyck helped make the early lead stick, stopping 19 of the 21 shots he faced. He improved to 9-4 with a 2.23 goals-against average and a .926 save percentage in the postseason. He also handed an assist to the fans. "Our crowd is awesome," Hellebuyck said. "They're so loud, and they help us carry so much momentum. They are a big factor in this." Hellebuyck, a 24-year-old Michigan native, is building on a successful regular season in which he went 44-11-9 with a 2.36 GAA and a .924 save percentage. It was a marked improvement from the 2016-17 season, when he finished 26-19-4 with a 2.89 GAA and a .907 save percentage. "It has been a long journey," Hellebuyck said, according to the Globe and Mail. "There has been a lot of hours spent and a lot of working hard. I always knew I was better than I showed (last year)." The results this season resulted in Hellebuyck becoming a candidate for the Vezina Trophy that goes to the NHL's top goalie, alongside the Nashville Predators' Pekka Rinne and the Tampa Bay Lightning's Andrei Vasilevskiy. In the Western Conference semifinals, Hellebuyck and the Jets got past Rinne and the Predators. Now they are up against Vegas and goalie Marc-Andre Fleury, a three-time Stanley Cup champion. The Winnipeg fans made their presence known to Fleury, mocking him by chanting his name after the Jets' goals Saturday. "It is an interesting environment," Fleury said, according to the Globe and Mail. "It was fun. I'd like to think they like me a lot. That's why they were saying my name so much." Fleury, 33, is 8-3 in the playoffs with a 1.74 GAA and a .943 save percentage. The longtime Pittsburgh Penguin went 29-13-4 with a 2.24 GAA and a .927 save percentage during the 2017-18 regular season. Fleury's four postseason shutouts match his total from the regular season. --Field Level Media 
