sport gaa
{ By Tom Farmery For Mailonline   Published:  17:18, 1 May 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-5679099/Roma-players-train-Forza-Sean-shirts-mark-support-Liverpool-fan-Sean-Cox.html }
Roma's players have trained in 'Forza Sean' shirts in a mark of support to Liverpool fan Sean Cox who was attacked ahead of last week's Champions League game at Anfield. Cox, 53, was the victim of an unprovoked attack by Roma Ultras outside the ground ahead of the first leg of the semi-final. He sustained a severe bleed to the head and remains in an induced coma at Walton Hospital in Liverpool. On Tuesday, Roma's players, who are preparing for the second leg in Rome on Wednesday night, wore shirts with Sean's name on the front. It comes after Roma's president Jim Pallotta labelled the hooligan element of the club's support as 'f****** morons'. Two Roma fans have been charged for their part in the incident but there are concerns that worse will follow on Wednesday night, with 5,000 Liverpool fans expected to head for the Italian capital. 'We have a long history at Roma and what's going on when you have a few stupid people is that they destroy our history and they attack our legacy and I'm tired of it,' Pallotta is quoted as saying. 'It's not just an issue for Rome. It's an issue for Italy and it's an issue for the authorities and it's an issue for all of (us) to band together and to finally wake up so that we don't have a reputation — that's not deserved around the rest of the world — that our fans are not good fans because our fans are the best fans in the world — it's just a couple of f****** morons that take the rest of us down. 'What I want to talk about is how these games are great but they're not life and death. 'What's going on right now with Sean Cox in Liverpool, that's life and death and that affects his family. 'I don't really give a s*** about the score of the game. 'It's disappointing to me that Rome and AS Roma get blamed for a few individuals who do stupid things.'  Meanwhile, Italian police have urged Liverpool fans to 'respect the rules' in order to stay safe in Rome. The local Special Branch have been drafted in ahead of the game, with 5,000 Liverpool fans allocated 'safe zones' across the city amid fears of further violence.  Liverpool captain Jordan Henderson has since sent a letter to Dunboyne GAA, another club which Cox supports in his native Ireland. Henderson, writing on behalf of the Merseyside club, wrote: 'The situation Sean and his family are facing now makes something like playing football look trivial as you could imagine, but as a group of players we wanted to show our support and we thought having your clubs' jersey hanging alongside ours in the dressing room was a subtle way of doing that. He added: 'I've never had the privilege to meet Sean, but in recent days I've been reading in the media about how much he's loved and respected in the community of Dunboyne and in particular the important role he play at your club. 'Our greatest wish in this moment is that Sean can return home with his family and see that the two sporting clubs he cherishes the most came together because of him.' Henderson finished the letter with a reference to Liverpool's iconic 'You'll Never Walk Alone' anthem.  Asked how the news of last week's attack had affected the players, Liverpool midfielder Georginio Wijnaldum said: 'We didn't know in the beginning what happened.  'Of course it's not a nice feeling when you hear someone get injured. We were devastated. You have to think about so many more things than just that. We felt it. It is a game of joy, everyone has to enjoy it and be safe. It is not a good thing that happened to him.'  
