sport gaa
{ By Amitai Winehouse For Mailonline   Published:  16:21, 29 April 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-5671287/Italian-football-fans-facing-charges-attack-Liverpool-supporter.html }
Two Italian men were remanded in custody on Thursday after being charged in connection with an incident which left a 53-year-old Liverpool fan with a 'severe brain bleed'. Filippo Lombardi, 20, and Daniele Sciusco, 29, both appeared at South Sefton Magistrates' Court on Thursday, charged with violent disorder after the Champion's League semi-final at Anfield on Tuesday. Lombardi, who had a shaved head, was also charged with wounding/inflicting grievous bodily harm on 53-year-old Sean Cox, who suffered serious head injuries when he was assaulted before the match between Liverpool and Roma. Both wore prison-issue light great sweat pants and a matching sweatshirt.  No pleas were indicated and the case was sent to Liverpool Crown Court, where both men will appear on May 24. Sources in Italy believe 200 members of ultra faction 'Fedayn' travelled to Anfield.  The two men were part of a group of 30 Roma fans at the game, according to the prosecution. Liverpool supporter Sean Cox was attacked outside Anfield stadium prior to the Champions League semi-final match against Roma on Tuesday night. Police said Mr Cox remains in a critical condition at Walton Neurological Centre.    Defending Lombardi was solicitor Stella Hayden and Sciusco was represented by Neil Fitzpatrick. Referring to footage of the incident, prosecutor Conlan said: 'The defendants were part of a group of around 30 Roma fans. Some of that group had weapons.'  Conlan submitted that the two fans used their belts and buckles as weapons, while the group violence allegedly involved using chains from fans coats. District Judge Jack McGarva also referred to alleged group violence. In court, he said: 'These are allegations of organised and group violence with weapons where mass public disorder was likely to be provoked.' The prosecution requested no bail be granted and neither of the defence attorneys made any application for bail. In court on Thursday, an officer said he will be in an induced coma until Monday, when they will attempt to bring him out of it. He has suffered a severe bleed on the brain.  Mr Cox, of Dunboyne, Meath, was at the game with his brother.  His family issued a statement on Thursday: 'We want the world to know that Sean is the most amazing and wonderful husband, dad, friend, son, uncle, and brother and he has brought us all nothing but joy.  'He is a truly decent man who adores Liverpool FC and just came over from his home in County Meath, Ireland, to watch his beloved team. 'We are completely devastated by what has happened to our lovely, caring, Sean and all we want is for him to come home to his loving wife and three children. 'We hope Sean makes a full recovery from the injuries he sustained and that we will all be back together soon as a family in Ireland spending precious time together.' Another Roma fan Edoardo Ranalli, 28, also appeared in court earlier on Thursday charged with launching coins at the area containing Liverpool supporters. Ranalli, of Rome, Italy, entered a guilty plea for one charge of throwing a missile onto a football playing area under the Football (Offences) Act 1991. Ranalli, who claimed he threw the coins but without the intention of hitting anyone, appeared wearing black jogging bottoms and sweatshirt. An interpreter translated for Ranalli, who was represented by defence solicitor Ian Till. The area manager for a car salesman said he was ‘sorry and stupid’ and had been drinking all afternoon prior to the game. Prosecutor Conlan said: 'The Crown would go ahead with an application for a criminal behaviour order. 'The defendant has clearly attended Anfield stadium while drunk, throwing coins into the area containing Liverpool football supporters.' District Judge McGarva handed Ranalli a £300 fine plus a £30 statutory surcharge fee and an additional £85 towards prosecution costs. Ranalli was also handed a criminal behaviour order and banned from attending matches in England or Wales for five years. District Judge McGarva said: 'You have pleaded guilty to throwing a missile towards the playing area of a football match. I give you credit for the guilty plea. 'The context of your offence was a football match in the Champions League which had been preceded by scenes of extreme violence.  'I have not been presented with any evidence that you were involved in that violence however the atmosphere at the stadium and the potential for further unrest has to be considered in the context of that. 'Throwing coins has the potential to cause serious injuries and people at a football match that have been hit with coins thrown from 20 or 30 metres away have been left with cuts in their faces. 'I have decided to grant the prosecution’s application for a criminal behaviour order. 'That is because I am satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that you have committed an offence that caused considerable disorder and unrest. 'The criminal behaviour order will have a single term and that is you are not allowed to attend any regulated football matches in England or Wales and that will be for a period of five years. 'Breaking that order is a criminal offence for which you can be sent to prison.'  Some witnesses have claimed police were slow to react, with video footage showing many officers did not intervene as battles took place between fans. Jonathan Northcroft, who is chief football correspondent for the Sunday Times, wrote: 'The first few Italians had belts in their hands and moved in on one Liverpool fan who looked to be about 50, was fairly big but looked harmless. I didn't see what blows were struck - I assume with the belts. 'But they knocked the man down and, after scuffling with a couple of other Liverpool fans, the Italians ran off. There were a lot of police in the area but they moved in to help only after the Italians had gone. 'The man looked to be unconscious and was lying in the middle of the street. Two officers attended initially, before back-up arrived about three or four minutes later.' Chief Superintendent Dave Charnock, commenting on the police response, said: 'As with any football match at this level a great deal of work between ourselves, the clubs, and other partner agencies goes into the planning to ensure that the event is adequately staffed and people are able to attend the match safely. 'I am happy that last night's home leg at Anfield had the sufficient number of resources.  'As well as a considerable number of our officers who were in and around the ground we were also supported by officers from Lancashire and Greater Manchester Police and other specialist departments including the dogs and mounted section. In addition we had support from our Italian police colleagues. 'A small number of arrests were made for a variety of offences but the vast majority of the 52,500 fans attending the game were well behaved both inside and outside the ground. 'I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Liverpool Football Club stewards and the police officers who were out on the ground last night for their hard work and professionalism throughout the evening.' The wife of father-of-two Mr Cox has travelled to Liverpool to be with him, while his grown-up children remain in Ireland awaiting further news. Trouble erupted in the hour before kick-off at the Champions League semi-final when a group of Roma fans, not dressed in their club's colours, stormed towards The Albert pub near Anfield.  Eyewitnesses reported that the Italians were swinging belts. Some of their fans were also seen to be carrying hammers. On Wednesday, Roma joined those condemning the 'abhorrent behaviour' by a group of their fans before the match. Fianna Fail councillor Damien O'Reilly, who has known Mr Cox for 15 years, describe him as the 'nicest man on the planet'. Mr O'Reilly said: 'He's from my village and I've known him for years. He's a massive football fan and was there for the match with his brother.  'He's just the nicest man on the planet. He's a cornerstone of the community, everyone in the area is shocked at what's happened. We're all thinking of him and his family and praying he has a speedy recovery.' Mr Cox, a sales director for Precision Cables, is well known in his local community and is treasurer at St Peter's GAA in Dunboyne - having served as president of the sports club.  Councillor Maria Murphy, of Meath County Council, who has known him for 18 years, said the whole community is shocked and is keeping him in their prayers. She said: 'He's a lovely man with a lovely family and it was a horrific attack on an innocent person attending a game and supporting the team he loves. 'The community is absolutely shocked by it and he has their whole support for his recovery. We're keeping him in our prayers. 'We moved to Dunboyne around the same time. I've known him for 18 or 19 years. His children are of a similar age to mine. 'He's very involved in the community, particularly the GAA club. He often travels to go and watch Liverpool play, he's a huge Liverpool fan. There's a lot of fans over here. I believe he's had surgery but that's as much as I know.' St Peter's GAA Club in Dunboyne has also wished him a speedy recovery, saying that its 'thoughts and prayers are with Sean and his family'. A spokesman added: 'We hope that Sean is receiving all of the medical care he requires and that he makes a full and speedy recovery.   A Roma spokesman said: 'AS Roma condemns in the strongest possible terms the abhorrent behaviour of a small minority of travelling fans who brought shame on the club and the vast majority of Roma's well-behaved supporters at Anfield after getting involved in clashes with Liverpool supporters before last night's fixture. 'There is no place for this type of vile behaviour in football and the club is now cooperating with Liverpool Football Club, Uefa and the authorities.The club's thoughts and prayers are with the 53-year-old Liverpool fan in hospital and his family at this time.' This followed an earlier statement by UEFA that said it was 'deeply shocked by the vile attack' and its thoughts were also with the victim and his family. It added: 'The perpetrators of this ignominious attack have no place in and around football and we trust they will be dealt with the utmost severity by the authorities.  'UEFA is waiting to receive full reports before deciding on potential disciplinary charges.' Liverpool, who won a thrilling contest 5-2, had already issued their statement, saying they are 'shocked and appalled' by the attack and they will be offering the victim and his family their 'full support'. It added: 'Liverpool FC directs supporters and those in attendance at the game to Merseyside Police's appeal for information.' In a long statement on the force website, Merseyside Police said witnesses have reported that the victim was hit with a belt and then fell. The incident took place outside the Albert pub at about 7.35pm. The fan's alleged assailants were among a total of nine men, aged between 20 and 43, arrested for various offences before and after the match. The offences include affray, assault, possession of offensive weapons, possession of a controlled drug and criminal damage. Detectives are also investigating the use of flares outside the ground, the force said.  Roma fans have a recent history of violence against English supporters, most recently when they attacked Spurs fans in a bar in Rome in 2012, and Liverpool's own history with Italian clubs is stained by the Heysel Stadium disaster in 1985, which left 39 dead. Tuesday's incident has come as a huge shock, though, particularly after Roma's players and officials had made a good impression by laying a wreath at Anfield's Hillsborough memorial on Monday. Merseyside Police chief superintendent Dave Charnock said: 'The vast majority of the 52,500 fans attending the game were well behaved and went to watch a good game of football. 'However, a minority of fans from both Liverpool and Roma were involved in isolated pockets of disorder in the city centre and near to the ground.'   
