sport gaa
{ By Adam Shergold for MailOnline    Published:  12:13, 28 April 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-5668635/Liverpool-support-injured-fan-Sean-Cox-Gaelic-football-shirt.html }
Liverpool have shown their support for Sean Cox, the fan attacked and seriously injured by Roma thugs last week, during Saturday's Premier League fixture with Stoke City at Anfield. Cox, 53, who hails from Ireland, was the victim of an unprovoked attack by Roma Ultras outside Anfield ahead of Tuesday night's Champions League semi-final, first leg. He sustained a severe bleed to the head and remains in an induced coma at Walton Hospital in the city. Two Roma fans appeared at South Sefton Magistrates Court on Thursday. 20-year-old Filippo Lombardi has been charged with violent disorder, as well as wounding and inflicting grievous bodily harm, and 29-year-old Daniele Sciusco has been charged with violent disorder. They were refused bail and will appear at Liverpool Crown Court in May 24. In support of Cox, who was well known in Gaelic football circles in his homeland, the shirt of St. Peter's GAA Club in his hometown of Dunboyne, Meath hung in the Liverpool dressing room ahead of kick-off. In a statement last week, St Peter's said 'Sean is a long serving and popular member' of the club. In addition, the message 'Sean Cox, You'll Never Walk Alone' will be displayed on sponsor boards around the Anfield pitch during the Stoke fixture. Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp wore a Liver Bird badge in the colours of the Irish flag during his press conference on Friday, while captain Jordan Henderson and other players sent a message to the Cox family. Well-wishers have raised thousands to help the family, with his wife by his bedside in the Walton Neurological Centre. He was in Liverpool to watch the Champions League semi-final, which Liverpool won 5-2, when he was injured outside the Albert Pub close to the ground. It was reported that Cox was struck by a belt buckle used by Roma supporters as weapons and that caused him to fall and hit his head against the hard ground.   
