{ By Simon Davidson For Mailonline   Published:  17:13, 7 March 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/destinations/article-5472439/best-museums-dublin.html }
From Irish history, both home and abroad, to art, sport and literature, whatever your personal interests there’s a museum in Dublin for you. With so many to choose from, we’ve created this guide to some of the best museums in the city.  Irish Museum of Modern Art With over 3,500 works by Irish and international artists, the Irish Museum of Modern Art is a must if you enjoy contemporary visual arts. The majority of the collection focuses on art since 1940 and features names such as Roy Lichtenstein, Joseph Cornell and Louise Bourgeois. Entrance to most exhibitions at the museum is free, but there are also lectures, visiting exhibitions and artist residency programmes you might need to pay for but make it different every time you visit. Open Tuesday to Friday 1130–1730, Saturday 1000–1730, and Sunday 1200–1730. Luas: James’s The Little Museum of Dublin For an excellent introduction into the social and political history of Dublin, head to the award-winning Little Museum. Housed in a Georgian building in the city centre, The Little Museum of Dublin tells the story of the city in the 20th century and includes over 5,000 artefacts and an exploration of the period’s main events, including the 1916 Easter Rising. This is an extremely popular museum, so you really should book your ticket online before your visit. Open every day 0930–1700, and late-night Thursday 0930–1900. Luas: St. Stephen’s Green Dublin Writers Museum There are few cities the size of Dublin that can boast such a fine literary tradition. This is indeed a city of storytellers, and the story of these scribblers is well told at the Dublin Writers Museum. Some of the writers featured include Joyce and Beckett, Yeats and Shaw, Wilde and Swift, and alongside the main exhibition spaces, there are also rooms devoted to children’s literature and a regular programme of literary events. Open Monday to Saturday 0945–1645, and Sunday 1100–1630. Luas: Parnell    EPIC: The Irish Emigration Museum Over the centuries, millions of Irish men and women have left the country to build new lives around the world. EPIC: The Irish Emigration Museum is an interactive exhibition in Dublin’s docklands that tells their story, from the often-hazardous journeys undertaken by rich and poor alike, to the achievements of Ireland’s people and culture internationally. You can book your tickets online, and the museum is open daily 1000–1845 (last entry 1700). Luas: George’s Dock National Museum of Ireland – Natural History The National Museum of Ireland – Natural History is one of the most popular family attractions in Dublin thanks to its wealth of exhibits exploring the natural world. In beautiful Victorian cabinets – earning it its nickname, the museum of museums, the main collection is split in two, with animals native to Ireland on the ground floor and the Mammals of the World collection on the floor above. Admission is free, and the National Museum of Ireland is open Tuesday to Saturday 1000–1700, and Sunday 1400–1700. Bus: Merrion Square West Irish Whiskey Museum If whiskey is your tipple, then the Irish Whiskey Museum is for you. The exhibition tells the story of Irish whiskey, some of its most celebrated names and some of the contemporary brands breathing new energy into the water of life. The museum has tours giving you the chance to try a range of Irish whiskies. Take some time to explore the website before your visit to decide which tour is for you. Open daily in summer 1000–1800, and winter 1030–1800. Luas: Trinity Glasnevin Cemetery Museum The Glasnevin Cemetery is the last resting place of many of Ireland’s most famous people, making the Glasnevin Cemetery Museum one of the more fascinating and unusual attractions in the city. Explore the history of the cemetery, the life stories of the people who are buried there, and how grave robbers went about their macabre business. You could join a general guided tour of the cemetery or one of the many tailored to a theme, like women, 1916 Rising, military history, literary/culture. Open Monday to Sunday 1000–1700. Bus: Cabra East, Glasnevin Cemetery Main Gate GAA Museum and Tour Croke Park Hurling and Gaelic Football are two of Ireland’s traditional sports under the GAA banner, and the home of these games in Dublin is the impressive Croke Park stadium. As well as tours of the stadium, you can also visit the GAA Museum, which will give you not only a great introduction to these dramatic and exciting sports, but also explore their role in Irish culture and traditions. The museum is open Monday to Saturday 0930–1700, and Sunday 1030–1700, with extended opening hours in the summer and restrictions on match days. Rail: Drumcondra   
