sport gaa
{ By Simon Davidson For Mailonline   Published:  09:52, 8 March 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/destinations/article-5473565/Cool-quirky-unusual-things-Dublin.html }
There’s nothing like a great story to take home with you, and in Dublin, there are plenty of opportunities to pick up a tale or something cool, something quirky or something a little different. Here are some of our favourite unusual things to see and do in the Irish capital. Kayak the River Liffey There are many ways to see the city, from walking and bike tours to open-top buses that travel in convoy. But for something a little different, why not take to the water? City Kayaking Dublin offers 90-minute trips down the River Liffey in one-to-three-seater kayaks, making for a fantastic adventure with your friends and family. You don’t need any experience, and, as you are paddling downstream, you can let the river take most of the strain. Tours take place daily in the summer and on weekends during the winter. Bus: Custom House Quay Experience Gaelic Games You’ll get a truly unique Irish sporting experience watching a hurling or Gaelic football match alongside tens of thousands of enthusiastic spectators at Croke Park. Check the GAA website for fixtures taking place during your stay. You can also try your hand at one of the GAA sports with Experience Gaelic Games, which offers workshops in both sports to individuals, families and groups. Based at the Na Fianna GAA Club, Experience Gaelic Games is about ten minutes by bus from O’Connell Street in the city centre. Bus: Saint Mobhi Road, Glasnevin Take a ghost tour of the city Dublin is a city of storytellers, but did you also know it’s reportedly one of the most haunted cities in the world? A fantastic way to explore its spooky folklore is on one of the Haunted History walking tours offered by Hidden Dublin Walks. Including tales of witches and the mysterious Hellfire Club, these are the only tours recommended by the Paranormal Study and Investigation Ireland organisation. The 90-minute tours run Monday, Thursday and Saturday at 2000, all year round. Bus: Temple Bar, Dame Street   Meet St Michan’s mummies It’s not every day you get to see the mummified remains of a city’s great and good, but in the vaults beneath St Michan’s church, you can do just that. Over time, the coffins in the five vaults beneath the church disintegrated, revealing their macabre contents. Guided tours of the church will give you the history of St Michan’s, but you’ll get to see the death mask of Wolfe Tone – legendary 18th century Irish rebel leader – and meet the mummies for yourself. Bus: Smithfield, Law Library Drink with the gravediggers The oldest family pub in Dublin is the John Kavanagh, founded almost two hundred years ago and better known as The Gravediggers, being the drinking hole for many of neighbouring Glasnevin cemetery’s employees. After admiring their handiwork and maybe joining a Glasnevin Cemetery Museum tour to see monuments and graves of national figures, pop in for a pint of the black stuff and hear some stories you might not pick up in the museum. Bus: Cabra East, Glesnevin Cemetery Main Gate Wild swimming in Dublin Bay The Irish coastline is spectacular, with rocky cliffs and sweeping sandy beaches, and by jumping on the DART transport network, you can easily enjoy the stretch of shoreline around Dublin Bay. Just a short journey gives you numerous places to get into the water, including at attractive Seapoint and the vast sweep of Portmarnock Beach. The Visit Dublin website has a handy guide to Dublin’s best swimming spots, so pack your swimmers. Learn about leprechauns You might well find them in every souvenir shop in the city centre, but what do you really know about leprechauns? Thankfully, the National Leprechaun Museum of Ireland is on hand to fill in the gaps. The museum’s specially created tours take you on a voyage through the magic of Irish folklore and storytelling, but on Friday and Saturday nights, the Darkland tours have a more adult feel, full of twisted tales for those over 18. Luas: Jervis Oysters and stout There are certain experiences that are cool and unique because there is only really one place in the world where you should have them, and when it comes to oysters and stout, Dublin is that place. From literary pubs to trendy oyster bars, you can try this local delicacy all across the city. Head to Davy Byrnes pub, where Leopold Bloom might well have had wine and a cheese sandwich in James Joyce’s Ulysses, but we’d recommend the six oysters and a pint a Guinness. Luas: Dublin City South, Dawson Street   
