{ By Louise Roseingrave For Mailonline   Published:  08:46, 22 February 2018   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-5421121/Husband-describes-horrific-moment-wife-dead.html }
The husband of an Irish woman shot dead by a terrorist while on holiday in Tunisia has spoken of finding his wife dead beneath her beach towel. Declan Carty went looking for his wife after a gunman went on a murdering spree that claimed 38 lives.  Mr Carty's wife Lorna, 54, was among three people from Ireland killed on the day of savagery, alongside Laurence, 56, and Martina Hayes, 55. The majority - 30 - were British.  The inquest into their deaths heard from Mr Carty yesterday, who said: 'I went to the beach, I lifted a towel. It was Lorna... she was lying with her head to one side as if she was lying in the sun.' Dublin Coroner's Court heard harrowing evidence from tourists staying at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel at Port El Kantaoui in Sousse on June 26, 2015. Declan and Lorna, from County Meath, had been moved there from another hotel due to construction work. 'There was banging and clattering,' Mr Carty said. 'Lorna explained that I'd had a heart attack and I was on holiday to rest.'  The couple was 'delighted' with the new accommodation. 'It was a fine hotel. Quiet. We were enjoying our holiday. We met another Irish couple, the Hayes,' he said. On the morning of the attack, Mr Carty was in the hotel room and his wife was at the beach. The couple's bags were packed and they were due to leave that day. 'I woke up to what I first thought was fireworks. It sounded like a machine gun. I looked out but everything looked normal. There was a jet-ski and a paraglider moving in the water.' When Mr Carty saw people running and screaming along the beach, he tried to phone his wife but got no answer. He ran to the lift where he met a member of staff 'in a panic'. 'She turned white. She was pointing at the key in my hand, she'd no English. There were other guests there and we ran to my room and stayed there for the duration.  'There was glass crashing, I could hear a bullet ricocheting. There was shooting and it went on for a while. 'I thought we were going to die on the day. I just didn't know what was going to happen,' Mr Carty said. After the attack, he went looking for his wife. 'She was a nurse, so I knew if Lorna was able to move at all, she'd be looking for me. I knew there was something wrong. I headed for the beach.' Before he found his wife, he lifted a beach towel placed over a body and recognised the face of Martina Hayes. Giving evidence, Sinéad Hayes, 33, the only child of Martina and Laurence Hayes, said her parents went on holiday to mark their wedding anniversary. 'Unfortunately they never got to fly back,' she said. The inquest heard Islamic State gunman Seifeddine Rezgui specifically targeted tourists with a Kalashnikov rifle he had hidden in a parasol during the 30-minute attack before he was gunned down by Tunisian authorities. The jury returned verdicts of unlawful killing for all three deaths. In a statement, the Carty and Hayes families said no words could express their pain and thanked all those who provided support and comfort to them.  
