{ By Regina F. Graham For Dailymail.com  and Associated Press   Published:  16:57, 30 August 2017   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-4837332/Fox-News-Channel-hires-Tomi-Lahren-signature-role.html }
Fox News Channel has hired conservative commentator Tomi Lahren, who has hosted shows on The Blaze and One America News Network along with working for a political action committee supporting President Donald Trump. The network said on Wednesday that Lahren will have a 'signature role' on a digital product under development and be a commentator on the network's opinion programming.  Her primary home will be on Sean Hannity's show, where she was to debut on Wednesday. She wrote a Facebook post over the news and said she is 'excited' while thanking Fox News.  'I am blessed and honored to join the Fox News team. This exciting new step will allow me to give voice to all the America-loving patriots who have had my back since day one,' her post reads.  'I will remain a solid and passionate advocate for you. Thank you for following me on my journey.  'I assure you, I will always stand up and speak out for our brave service members, our law enforcement community, our veterans and hardworking Americans from coast to coast.  'The Fox News digital future is bright and I can't wait to take it to new heights! There is so much more to come and I am blessed to partner with Fox News on this next adventure.  'I'll see you on 'Hannity' tonight at 10pmET with more! It's a good day. #TeamTomi' The 25-year-old has quickly achieved a high profile in the conservative movement following her graduation from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.  She has more than 4 million Facebook followers, and she produces her own videos with commentary on politics and culture. Lahren is best known for her time working at Glenn Beck's The Blaze where she was suspended earlier this year after expressing her support for abortion on ABC's The View.   She sued Beck and The Blaze for wrongful termination. The lawsuit was settled in May. Also in May, she accepted a position to work with Great America Alliance (GAA), a pro-Trump advocacy group.    'The liberal establishment and mainstream media continue to fight our President at every turn, so it's critical for all Americans to step up and do all they can to advance the America First agenda,' said Lahren in a statement announcing her hiring at GAA. It's unclear if she will keep her position at GAA since being hired with Fox.      
