{ By Press Association   Published:  11:10, 10 May 2017   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/pa/article-4491566/Charles-meets-police-chiefs-Northern-Ireland-ahead-memorial-garden-opening.html }
The Prince of Wales paid tribute to fallen police officers as he joined bereaved relatives at the opening of a memorial in Belfast. Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall bowed their heads for a minute’s silence before laying wreaths at the striking stone roll of honour for the 13 Police Service of Northern Ireland officers who have lost their lives in the line of duty since the organisation was founded in 2001. A piper played a lament after family members watched the royal couple unveil a plaque to commemorate their visit to the memorial garden, which is tucked in a secluded area of PSNI headquarters. First engagement of the day for TRHs was to officially open @PoliceServiceNI Memorial Garden and meet bereaved families. #RoyalVisitNI pic.twitter.com/FAApIXuUyC In a particularly poignant moment, seven-year-old Victoria Grieves, whose officer father Gary was killed in a road crash in 2010, presented a bouquet of flowers to the Duchess. PSNI Chief Constable George Hamilton said: “This is a very special, but also sad day, for the families and PSNI as we remember those who have died.” There is already an adjoining memorial garden to the 300 officers from the PSNI’s predecessor, the Royal Ulster Constabulary, who were killed during the Troubles. The solemn event, during which the couple also viewed a new book of remembrance, started the couple’s second day of their four-day trip to Ireland. PSNI Chief Constable George Hamilton greets the Prince of Wales (Brian Lawless/PA) From there it was on to the Co Down market town of Dromore, where there was a carnival atmosphere as the Prince and Duchess took a stroll through the square. They chatted with local traders and even stopped for a quick ice cream. The town was brought to a standstill as hundreds of well-wishers flooded on to the streets. Crowds wait for the arrival of Charles and Camilla (Niall Carson/PA) The Prince and Duchess spent time chatting and laughing with school children and members of the community before heading off to the primary school. They royals will travel across the border to the Irish Republic on Wednesday afternoon. The Prince has officially visited the Republic of Ireland four times before, most recently in May 2016. In 2015, he and the Duchess travelled to Mullaghmore in Co Sligo where the Prince’s great-uncle and mentor Lord Mountbatten and three others were killed by the IRA in 1979. Charles and Camilla meet members of the local community in the peace garden in Mullaghmore in 2015 (Jeff J Mitchell/PA) Highlights of the couple’s latest visit to Ireland will include an engagement at Kilkenny Castle, where they will hear some traditional music and watch a hurling demonstration by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA). Charles will tour the United Nations Training School Ireland at the Curragh Camp, while Camilla will visit the Irish National Stud. Both will attend ceremonies at Glasnevin Cemetery in Dublin to commemorate those who lost their lives in the First World War and during the Easter Rising. This will be Prince Charles’s third visit to Áras an Uachtaráin. https://t.co/oQPd2w5Has https://t.co/SPv26ueXqB Irish President Michael D Higgins will meet the Royal couple in Dublin later on Wednesday. While in the city, the Prince will also meet Irish Taoiseach Enda Kenny and he and the Duchess will conclude their visit on Friday by attending a reception at the British ambassador’s residence. 
