{ By Paddy Dinham For Mailonline   Published:  10:50, 17 March 2017   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-4323402/Brit-couple-said-no-helmets-fatal-buggy-crash.html }
A young British couple in Qatar declined the offer of safety helmets before embarking on a dune buggy ride that killed them both. Charlotte Sant and boyfriend Eamonn Morgan, both 24, were riding across the dunes of Doha in June 2015 when their vehicle overturned. Just days earlier two friends - Nicola Fletcher and Holly Smith - had flown out and joined them that day on the thrill-seeking ride. But Warrington Coroner's Court heard as Ms Fletcher drove them over a dune they only realised at the last moment it was a sheer drop on the other side. The two friends in the front of the buggy narrowly escaped serious injury but Charlotte and Eamonn in the back suffered serious fatal head and neck injuries. Ms Fletcher said the group had no safety briefing but they all wore seatbelts in the buggy. The hearing was told that although they were all offered safety helmets they decided not to use them and they all took it turns driving the buggy Ms Fletcher explained: 'It was time to head back and I said I would have another go. 'We headed up a dune and it just looked flat on top like the others. It was just a sheer drop. We didn't know what was happening until it had happened. 'I was in control, my foot wasn't on the floor. We just went off the edge.' Eamonn and Charlotte were sat in the back seats. Ms Fletcher said she was 'in a bad way' but found Eamonn's phone on the floor and used it to call for help. She added: 'I didn't see them in the back, I heard Holly next to me. It is just all hazy.' Ms Smith told the court: 'Charlotte and Eamonn had used buggies before and nothing ever happened. 'We said no to the helmets - it was a case of a quick decision but a silly one. 'I remember just looking down and seeing all the sand. I think the buggy must have rolled. 'I woke up in hospital, I don't remember anything just after the incident. I don't understand, I thought the front would get the impact.' The hearing was told Liverpool John Moores University graduate Eamonn, from Newry, Northern Ireland, was a keen Gaelic football player and even played in Qatar. Cheshire Coroner Alan Moore said: 'There was no way that it could have been anticipated. 'What had been planned as an enjoyable day out with friends ended as a tragic accident.' He recorded a verdict in Charlotte's case of death by accident due to multiple injuries.  Charlotte, from Warrington, Cheshire, had met Eamonn years earlier while studying in Manchester. They both decided to move to Qatar together and had been in Doha for about a year teaching PE in English-speaking schools in the wealthy Middle-Eastern country. Her inquest heard the couple had been out riding sand dune buggies before in the past without any serious incident. But in June 2015 Charlotte was delighted that close friends Ms Fletcher and Ms Smith had flown out from the UK to spend time with them. Devastated Ms Fletcher told the court that on June 26 - the day before the tragedy - the three girls had been food shopping, sitting around the pool and had a couple of drinks with friends. The next day, along with Eamonn, they had travelled to Siline to drive a buggy across the dunes.  Staff at Wellacre Academy, in Flixton, Manchester - where Charlotte worked for 12 months between 2013 and 2014 - called her a 'phenomenal teacher'. Headteacher Melanie Wicks said Charlotte made a huge impact during her short time at the school and was offered a permanent position. She said: 'She was an absolutely phenomenal teacher and I wish she would have stayed. 'But she wanted to go travelling and see the world and have new experiences. 'She had an effervescence for life and teaching. She just wanted the students to have the best chance and she was always coming up with unique ways to teach. 'She was only with us for such a short amount of time but made a real impact. 'She was very impressive and very committed. We would have loved her to stay. Teaching is a vocation and she had the gift. 'She put herself second and the needs of the boys first. She was very inspirational.' While Middle-East based Peter Crowe, chairman of Qatar Gaelic Athletic Association (Qatar GAA), also paid glowing tributes to the popular and much-loved couple. Describing Mr Morgan as 'an absolute gent' and Miss Sant as 'a sweet girl', he said: 'I had the privilege of playing with Eamonn for a year. 'An absolute gent, never to be seen without a smile on his face and the definition of a 'character' as we'd say back home. 'I also had the pleasure of training Charlotte. A sweet girl, who took to a new sport with more enthusiasm than you could ever ask for! 'Eamonn and Charlotte will be sorely missed, people often don't realise at home how much of a community can be built away from home. 'But I can tell you, sincerely, that Eamonn and Charlotte were very much central to the community that is Qatar GAA, and it will be hard to imagine it without them. 'They will remain forever in our hearts.' 
