{ By Kayla Caldwell For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:24, 17 September 2016   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-3794452/Audrina-Patridge-reveals-Train-hit-Hey-Soul-Sister-helped-scary-C-section.html }
They say music is good for the soul. And earlier this week Audrina Patridge revealed that it was the key to helping her get through her Cesarean section for daughter Kirra. The 31-year-old told People that she had played Train's hit Hey Soul Sister really loudly on the speakers in the OR to distract herself during the stressful operation.  'I had the doctors turn up the music in the delivery room so I wouldn’t focus on what was happening,' Audrina shared. The new mom added: 'I was kind of scared and Corey [Bohan] just kept talking to me.' Audrina had the C-section for daughter Kirra Max back on June 24. The Hills star required surgery because her baby had been breech, meaning that instead of being situated with her head down in the uterus, the baby was flipped and positioned feet first. 'I tried everything to get her to flip. I went to acupuncture, I floated in the pool, I did front flips, I did handstands,' Audrina shared, adding: 'I did everything you could imagine and nothing worked.' The TV personality admitted that she was 'scared' and had waited until the very end of her pregnancy for the C-section, but added: '[My fiancé] Corey kept talking to me. And it wasn’t bad at all!”' But, of course, it was all worth it, as Audrina shared that 'it was instant' when she first locked eyes with her baby girl. She wrote on her blog: 'Kirra is the happiest, most beautiful baby with a constant smile and lots of goo-ing and gaa-ing! She loves giving Corey and I the biggest smiles.' However, it has been a bit of a struggle since leaving the hospital, with the new mom admitting that things were overwhelming for a while. 'If I’m being completely honest, the first month of no sleep, C-Section recovery, unpacking, and getting back into the swing of things was pretty grueling,' she shared. 'But, at the end of the day, all I had to do was take one look at Kirra and none of that mattered anymore.' Audrina and professional BMX dirt bike rider Corey got engaged in November, and the former often posts about upcoming wedding plans on her website. 
