sport gaa
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  22:46, 26 September 2016   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-3808630/Audrina-Patridge-shares-breast-feeding-snap-daughter-Kirra-Max.html }
Three months after giving birth Audrina Patridge seems to be loving every moment of motherhood. On Monday the Hills alum shared a snap of herself breast-feeding her baby daughter Kirra Max. The moment was captured by the 31-year-old's sister Casey and she wrote alongside the image: '@caseyloza always capturing me in moments #momonthego'  Audrina wears a sleeveless graphic print t-shirt as she sits cradling her newborn.  The former reality star is seen showing off her highlighted brunette locks as she turns to the side in the candid bonding moment between mother and daughter. Audrina and her fiance Corey Bohan welcomed their first child in June. And the 34-year-old pro BMX rider popped the question in November 2015 after nearly five years of dating.  While shopping for wedding dresses last month Audrina shared her first photo of herself nursing Kirra in a boutique changing room.  'Nursing Kirra while trying to find the perfect wedding dress,' she wrote next to the picture adding '#professionalmultitasker #itscrunchtime.'   Meanwhile Audrina recently revealed that music helped her get through her stressful Cesarean section. The former reality star told People that she had played Train's hit Hey Soul Sister to distract herself during the operation. 'I had the doctors turn up the music in the delivery room so I wouldn’t focus on what was happening,' Audrina shared. The new mom added: 'I was kind of scared and Corey just kept talking to me.' Audrina required the surgery because her baby was breech, meaning that instead of being situated with her head down in the uterus, the baby was flipped and positioned feet first. 'I tried everything to get her to flip. I went to acupuncture, I floated in the pool, I did front flips, I did handstands,' Audrina shared, adding: 'I did everything you could imagine and nothing worked.' The TV personality admitted that she was 'scared' and had waited until the very end of her pregnancy for the C-section, but added: '[My fiancé] Corey kept talking to me. And it wasn’t bad at all!”' But, of course, it was all worth it, as Audrina shared that 'it was instant' when she first locked eyes with her baby girl. She wrote on her blog: 'Kirra is the happiest, most beautiful baby with a constant smile and lots of goo-ing and gaa-ing! She loves giving Corey and I the biggest smiles.'   
