{ By David Raleigh In Limerick and Darren Hasset For The Irish Daily Mail and Martin Robinson, Uk Chief Reporter For Mailonline   Published:  10:36, 20 July 2016   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-3698985/Ex-boyfriend-stabbed-estranged-partner-row-killed-three-year-old-son-smashing-car-lorry.html }
A father is believed to have deliberately killed himself and his three-year-old son in a car crash hours after stabbing to death his childhood sweetheart in a devastating murder suicide.  Mother-of-two Jodie Power was stabbed earlier in the day when her ex-partner Marco Velocci called to her home in Co. Limerick, Ireland, sources believe.   A short time later, news emerged that her tiny son and ex-partner were killed when the car they were in collided with a lorry. What began as a beautiful summer's day in Limerick ended in a double tragedy, with the death of three-year-old Alex James and his father Mr Velocci. Last night locals who knew the family said they were 'shellshocked'. One resident of Oola, Co. Limerick, said the mother, father and son had all been seen out for an evening walk just the day before and seemed 'quite happy'. The same neighbour said the separated couple had been 'childhood sweethearts'. The devastation that has torn a family apart began at 8am yesterday when mother-of-two Ms Power, 26, of Glebe, Oola, sustained stab wounds during a violent assault at her home. Her ex-partner, who is half-Italian, had called to her bungalow where an altercation occurred, resulting in Ms Power reportedly suffering superficial wounds and a broken arm. Mr Velocci then left the house with their toddler son Alex and both headed off in his black Audi. Shortly afterwards, gardaí responded to a fatal crash, 3km from Ms Power's home, on the Limerick-to-Tipperary stretch of the N24. Mr Velocci's car had ploughed head-on into an articulated lorry - killing both Mr Velocci and his son instantly. Minutes later, officers received a panicked phone call from a caller at Ms Power's home, telling them that she had been stabbed, and her son had been taken from the house by MrVelocci, 28. As paramedics were treating Ms Power's wounds at her home, the bodies of her son and MrVelocci were discovered in the road carnage a short distance away. According to a Garda source, 'several witnesses' saw Mr Velocci's car veer across the road into the path of the truck which had been travelling in the other direction. Little Alex was discovered lying on the road, near the front wheel of his father's Audi estate, while Mr Velocci was found inside the car. The driver of the truck, which ended up in a nearby field, was not injured, but was treated for shock. A local Garda source confirmed gardaí were treating it as a suspected murder-suicide. 'Officially we are looking at a stabbing incident at a house and a fatal road traffic collision, but that's the way it looks all right,' the source said. Ms Power and her parents, Elizabeth and Perry, from Oola, were being comforted by family and friends last night. The young mother, who has an 18-month-old baby from a separate relationship, has two brothers, James and Perry Jr. James, who lives in Australia, was on a plane home yesterday. Locals described Ms Power as a 'lovely lady, a great mother, and a great neighbour'. Ms Power had been separated from Mr Velocci for over a year, neighbours said. Mr Velocci's former sports coach, John Ryan, who farms locally, said he knew the 'childhood sweethearts' who he said had been seen out together with their son Alex on a family walk on Monday evening. 'The three (of them) were together yesterday evening, and seemed quite happy... whatever happened there this morning,' Mr Ryan, 70, said yesterday. 'I know (Mr Velocci) personally and I know his partner as well who was stabbed. It's terrible. 'I can't get over it... I can't get over it. It's a tragedy. 'They have been together for years, since they were teenagers, really childhood sweethearts.' Mr Ryan, who coached Mr Velocci in underage GAA for Oola, described him as a 'nice player' and a keen huntsman. 'He was very talented. I lost contact with him after. He was big time into hunting. He was around the country hunting and shooting,' he said. He said: 'He seemed to call there [yesterday] morning, and whatever happened... [neighbours] said they were together last [Monday] night, and they seemed to be quite happy, no conflict or anything. They were on the road, walking together, the three of them.' Mr Velocci, who was a member of the Emily Latin Cullen Oola gun club, was originally from Oola, but had been living in Lattin, Co. Tipperary. Paying tribute, his best friend Jonathan Ryan said: 'He was a great man for gun dogs, fishing, hunting sports - they were our sports. 'He was fierce into his wildlife. He was even in the newspaper a year or two ago after he found a young baby hare. He bottled-fed him and nursed him back to life. He raised him for a few months and let him off again. 'He was fierce kind-hearted. There was no badness whatsoever in the man, nothing like that. Mr Ryan said he was 'completely and utterly shell-shocked' by the suspected murder-suicide. 'He was a very quiet, genuine person. He never had a bad word to say about anyone,' he added. 'He was brilliant company.' Mr Ryan, who works in Wyeth, Askeaton, said: '[Mr Velocci] was the nicest person you could meet, so friendly and quiet. 'He was never in trouble with anyone, like gardaí or anyone like that. He just loved his dogs, and shooting and fishing. He was one of the nicest, kind-hearted people you could meet.' Mr Ryan said Mr Velocci, who worked as a carpenter, 'loved his son'. 'He loved his family... did everything for them,' he added. 'He was a good friend to all of us, always was. I went to school with him, primary and secondary. 'The whole place is shell-shocked. I had to leave work. I had to. I couldn't... I fell down...' He added that his friend 'loved the countryside' and was always timid. 'He was a man of the country basically. He was as quiet as a mouse. He had one sister and one brother, that's it.' Mr Verocci's father, Onorio, is well known in Limerick city. The Italian native has worked all his life in chip shops. The Italian side of Mr Velocci's family are originally from the village of Roselli, which belongs to the municipality of Casalvieri, that is in the province of Frosinone, region Lazio. Ms Power - who rents a modest, 1950s bungalow, nestled at the foot of the Galtee Mountains, where she lived with her two sons - was last night recovering from her injuries. Local woman, Christine Ryan, said: 'It was a shock for the village, really. It's sad.' Another resident, Mary Ann Ryan, said: 'It's terrible. I'm shocked.' Local councillor Noel Gleeson said: 'A tragedy is a tragedy. My sympathies go out to the families that are left. You can't bring back the man and the little boy.' The bodies of the father and son were removed from the scene of the crash to University Hospital Limerick where the State pathologist is to carry out postmortems.    
