sport gaa
{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  18:33, 16 January 2016   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-3402786/Girl-19-killed-late-night-night-blaze-father-s-butcher-s-shop.html }
A 19-year-old girl died in the early hours of the morning after a blaze tore through a flat above her father's butcher's shop.  Ellen Finnegan from Castlewellan, Co Down died despite the best efforts of fire crews and paramedics.  It is understood the blaze broke out at about 4am and up to 22 firefighters attempted to bring the blaze under control.  The butcher shop is owned by Ellen's father Bartley. Her mother Nichola died three years ago.   Local SDLP councillor Laura Devlin told the Belfast Telegraph: 'Castlewellan is in absolute shock. Ellen was a highly intelligent, strikingly beautiful young lady with a quick wit and sharp personality – a personality that she was renowned for. All of these attributes made her such a popular person. 'In these ways and many more she was a lot like her late mum, Nichola. The Finnegan family have owned the butcher's in Castlewellan for as long as I can remember. They are at the heart of the community and are loved and respected by everyone. The news this morning is just so hard to process. 'I visited Bartley this morning – all of the Finnegans and Halls are in my thoughts and prayers on this very dark day.' Max Joyce of the fire service told the BBC his officers have not yet determined the cause of the blaze, although its cause is still under investigation.  He said: 'The first thing I would like to do is pass condolences to the family - it's a tragedy for the family and a tragedy for Castlewellan, which is such a close-knit community.  Essentially the blaze itself was contained to a bedroom just over the butcher's and there was a fair bit of heat coming off it. 'Our breathing apparatus teams managed to make their way through, fought their way through, to get to the young girl.' The local ladies GAA club posted a tribute on its Facebook page: 'It is with great sadness that we wake up this morning to hear of the tragic death of Ellen, a beautiful girl that was a friend to many of the players on our & neighbouring teams.  'Our thoughts and prayers are with Bartley, the Finnegan family circle and friends of Ellen at this time. May she rest in peace. God Bless.'  Ms Finnegan's former school Assumption Grammar has arranged counselling for current and former pupils affected by the tragedy.  A special prayer service is also planned between 1pm and 4pm tomorrow at the school led by local priest Fr Conor McCarthy.          
