sport gaa
{ By David Sneyd For The Irish Daily Mail   Published:  00:17, 19 December 2015   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-3366630/Everton-star-Seamus-Coleman-set-200-club-appearances-career-taken-different-path-Reading-got-way.html }
On the morning of the Republic of Ireland’s Euro 2016 qualifier with Scotland at Aviva Stadium in June, 26 of Seamus Coleman’s closest friends and family piled onto a coach in Killybegs at 9am.  They were heading for Dublin and there were slightly more than usual on board. It wasn’t just because of the importance of the game. This was Coleman’s stag weekend. The full-back arranged a corporate box at the stadium for the party, which included his two brothers, one of whom, Stevie, has cerebral palsy and won a bronze medal with the Irish football team at the 2003 Special Olympics World Games. Coleman’s mother’s cousin, former Dublin footballer Dessie Farrell was not on board but while the 1-1 result may have been disappointing, Coleman was still able to enjoy being surrounded by people he so rarely gets to see and can only enjoy the craic with through a Whatsapp group. That night, the teetotal 27-year-old went to Dublin nightclub Buck Whaley’s with the travelling crew, as well as international team-mates David Meyler and James McCarthy. It was a late one, but the next morning Coleman was one of the few fresh faces and clear heads among the two dozen who headed go-karting. He still didn’t win, though. Another night out in Temple Bar on Sunday was followed on Monday by the near four-hour return coach ride to Killybegs. A sprightly Coleman was on board and, as you could imagine, there were some broken men slumped in their seats. So, to break up the journey, a pit-stop in Cavan was arranged for a few curers and a spot of grub. What this illustrates is not only Coleman’s inherent discipline, but, quite frankly, a staggering level of patience. There aren’t many who could put up with their inebriated mates on a stag weekend when the strongest drink you’ve taken is Coca-Cola. But it is that appreciation and understanding of what is required to reach the top which Coleman has possessed from an early age. It is why, when he was 13 and squeezed into The Fleet Inn pub in Killybegs with all his pals to watch Robbie Keane score a last minute equaliser against Germany in the 2002 World Cup, he didn’t try sneak a few sips from the unattended pints. It is why he made the decision to quit playing GAA for Killybegs aged 17 to concentrate on football. ‘I was a far better Gaelic player than I was a soccer player, but you are not going to make a career in Gaelic football,’ he said recently. ‘The players train like professionals but they aren’t getting paid. I have a massive respect for Gaelic football and I hope I can go back and play it again. You can play at 36 or 37 if you look after yourself.’ And it is why he will make his 200th appearance for Everton against Leicester City— his 166th game in the Premier League. Coleman has lived in the same two-bedroom apartment 10 minutes from Liverpool airport since moving to Merseyside from Sligo Rovers in the summer of 2009. He has bought it outright from the club but will soon look to move somewhere with more space when his wife gives birth to their first child in the new year. The storyline to his rise at Goodison Park follows a well-told theme. Mick Doherty was the unemployed scout who would go to watch his son Sean play for Sligo in the League of Ireland. Coleman caught his eye with his adventurous bursts forward and unwavering confidence in possession. The pieces all fell into place when Doherty got a job working for Everton and he soon recommended the full back to David Moyes. So a deal was struck. Everyone now knows the figure involved. The sum will no doubt end up as part of the epitaph on Coleman’s tombstone. ‘Here lies Seamus Coleman. Beloved husband, father, son, brother… and £60,000 signing.’ But his career could have taken a completely different direction. Before the Everton deal was done, former St Patrick’s Athletic manager-turned agent Pat Dolan visited the house of some old friends after a match at Richmond Park one Friday night. The married couple and their son stayed up with Dolan drinking tea and talking football until the early hours. Coleman’s name was brought up by the son as someone to keep an eye on and the father reinforced that assertion. So straight away Dolan phoned his brother Eamonn, academy boss at Reading, and Brian McDermott, who returned to the Madejski Stadium as manager following his previous spell in charge. Dolan left voice messages and McDermott liked what he heard, and then saw. But Everton was the club Coleman chose at the age of 21. Now, six years on and approaching a second century of games, his decision to focus his energies on football rather than GAA with Donegal has proved inspired. For his honeymoon, he went to the south of France for a couple of weeks. Next summer he will, injury permitting, be back to take part in Euro 2016 with Ireland. He has been linked with transfers to Manchester United, Chelsea, Liverpool and even Paris Saint-Germain, but if he remains on Merseyside for the remainder of his career the father-to-be could well join the pantheon of Irish stars who have graced the Goodison turf. The two who were signed together from Shamrock Rovers for £10,000 in 1946, Peter Farrell and Tommy Eglington, remain the standard bearers overall with 453 and 428 appearances respectively, although Kevin Sheedy did win two top-tier League titles during his 369 games. The chances of Everton lifting a Premier League title — even in this most open of seasons they are in 10th place and 12 points off leaders Leicester — are slim. Coleman, though, is as ambitious as he is determined. He may have the patience of a saint but that would be one honour he is prepared to chase elsewhere, even if that means relinquishing his place in the Everton record books. 
