{ By Philip Lanigan and Rory Brigstock-barron For Mailonline   Published:  01:16, 15 December 2015   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/ufc/article-3360275/Conor-McGregor-fight-Croke-Park-says-GAA-president-Irish-UFC-star-beats-Jose-Aldo-featherweight-title.html }
Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) president Aogan O Fearghail said Croke Park is a live option to host Conor McGregor’s UFC featherweight title defence after his stunning 13-second knockout of Jose Aldo in Las Vegas. The prospect of McGregor fighting in a stadium that can pack in over 80,000 fans has already been floated and O Fearghail declared: ‘Croke Park has to be open for our own sports first but we’re also open for business. If an application comes in for anything, it’s looked at.’ McGregor has already named Croke Park as a potential venue, though any official application is some way off yet. As to whether UFC is a good fit for the GAA because of the nature of the sport, the GAA president added: ‘It would be unfair of anyone to make that comment about another sport. I wouldn’t like to cast an aspersion on the followers or the players of any sport really.’ Croke Park has hosted different sporting events down the years, including a boxing match back in 1972 when Muhammad Ali fought Al ‘Blue’ Lewis. But UFC president Dana White has cast doubts over the venue due to unpredictable weather and potential problems with a curfew that protects the stadium's neighbours. McGregor has expressed his determination to fight in the stadium, a venue that would easily break the UFC's attendance record of just over 56,000 - especially given the UFC star's popularity in his home country. 'If they offer me Croke Park, or if they offer me the football [Aviva] stadium, you're damn right I'm gonna take it,' McGregor said after claiming the UFC featherweight belt on Saturday. 'Maybe I can [demand it] these days. But I'm gonna sit back in the shadows for Christmas and plot. Then I'll come back in the New Year with something for you all.' Potential featherweight opponents for The Notorious, Frankie Edgar and Max Holloway, have both said they would happily fight at Croke Park. Meanwhile, McGregor's coach and mentor John Kavanagh has said the UFC will give McGregor what he whatever he wants after he broke the companies gate record at the MGM Grand at the weekend, exceeding $10million (£6.6m). 'I spoke to Joe Silva (UFC matchmaker), Kavanagh told The MMA Hour. 'I kind of said to him "well what's next" and he said "well at this stage it's kind of up to you".'      
