sport gaa
{ By Luke Augustus for MailOnline    Published:  13:33, 10 November 2015   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-3311891/Manchester-United-boss-Louis-van-Gaal-shouts-come-town-fan-request-hilarious-video-following-West-Brom-win.html }
Some of Louis van Gaal's decisions on the pitch have yielded jeers from the Manchester United faithful, but off it he is still clearly a popular figure among supporters. Saturday afternoon's 2-0 victory over West Brom saw United return to winning ways in the Premier League after two 0-0 draws with Manchester City and Crystal Palace. And post-match, Red Devils manager Van Gaal was clearly in a jovial mood as he departed Old Trafford. Upon leaving the Theatre of Dreams, the Dutchman greeted fans by reciprocating their support for him - even bowing to one request. In a hilarious moment the 64-year-old buoyantly gave his support to GAA team Portlaoise by saying 'Come on the town' after being asked by United fan Catherine Doyle. Doyle, from Portlaoise in the Republic of Ireland, made the request to Van Gaal on behalf of her GAA club - which he obliged with an Irish accent. Van Gaal's good wishes appeared to work as Portlaoise reached the last four of the Leinster football championship with a 2-5 to 0-10 win over Sarsfield's of Kildare. 'We met him last year and I had the feeling he'd be up for the craic – he's very warm, very affable and he speaks to everyone,' Doyle told the Irish Independent. 'He came up to say hello and I just asked him.. he obviously didn't know what it meant (but) I knew he would do it. 'In the Portlaoise Club there's been a few deaths…. I just wanted to post it before the match to give everyone a boost. 'I can't believe the reaction… I thought it would just be a local thing. If it cheers people up, that's the main thing'. The video has had almost 90,000 views since it was posted to Portaloise's Facebook page on Sunday and is the latest viral hit of Van Gaal. In May, Van Gaal gave an eight-minute rambling speech at United's end of season awards ceremony, packed with rallying calls and humour. And following their 2-1 defeat by Swansea in August he became another viral hit after pulling amusing facial contortions as he left the Liberty Stadium.   
