{ By Bob Treasure for MailOnline   Published:  00:04, 8 November 2015   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-3308763/Alan-Pardew-admits-sees-similarities-Jurgen-Klopp.html }
If there’s one thing to look out for at Anfield this afternoon, it’s tempers on the touchline. Neither Jurgen Klopp nor Alan Pardew are afraid to make their feelings known to anyone within earshot of their technical areas, and the Crystal Palace manager jokes that this potential personality clash could see the pair come to blows on Sunday. ‘I don’t know much about Klopp,’ Pardew said, ‘but I do know that on the sideline he’s very similar to myself – they’re going to have to keep us apart because we’re both so… engaged in the game.’ There have been occasions when Pardew has been a little too ‘engaged in the game’ – recent encounters with Manuel Pellegrini and David Meyler landed him in hot water – but the 54-year-old is keen to maintain his current level of conduct and, like Klopp, convey a positive attitude to his players. ‘After my couple of incidents I am certainly on my guard to make sure my behaviour is spot on. I have been OK this year and I intend to stay that way,’ Pardew continued. ‘I do see him on the sidelines and he is very similar to the way I am. He never gives too many negative things out even though he is quite involved in the game - and I like to think I don't either.  'So we are both going to be intense to try to get our teams to win. He's had a great start and he'll be looking to continue that.’ Klopp has indeed started well at Liverpool, winning three and losing none of his first six games in charge.  But the Reds’ recent record against Palace will be in the back of the German’s mind as he goes in search of his first Premier League victory in front of the Kop. The south Londoners have won two of their four meetings with Liverpool since promotion to the top flight, but those successes came with Brendan Rodgers sat in the opposing dug-out.  Today, Pardew’s side face a different proposition altogether. ‘I remember when Brendan came in and he was the best manager since sliced bread was invented,’ Pardew said.  ‘He wasn’t engaged in the game as much, but that isn’t to say he had less passion than Klopp or me for winning the game. ‘Managers have different styles. Louis van Gaal, for instance, doesn't move from his seat and writes in his pad.  'But there is still a kind of presence to him and a manner that he is in control. Alex Ferguson very rarely stood on the touchline - only in Fergie time - so maybe that was a tactical ploy, who knows? ‘He once actually told me to sit down, but that isn't really me.’ 
