{ By John Carney for Daily Mail Australia   Published:  14:31, 13 August 2015   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-3196533/A-pernicious-gross-form-slut-shaming-Nick-Kyrgios-filthy-sledge-sends-social-media-berserk-shocked-fans-turn-against-offensive-outburst.html }
Nick Kyrgios' offensive remark to Switzerland's Stan Wawrinka has sparked outrage on social media with the Australian tennis player being accused of 'a pernicious and gross form of slut-shaming' and that he was 'sextist' and 'low-brow'. Kyrgios' nasty sledging of his Swiss opponent Stan Wawrinka during a second-round clash at the Montreal Masters on Thursday shocked even his biggest fans, who couldn't help taking a swipe at him for his behaviour on Twitter. In a remark picked up by a courtside microphone, Kyrgios told third-seeded Wawrinka that a teenage Australian player, Thanasi Kokkinakis, slept with his girlfriend.  Scroll down for video    'Kokkinakis banged your girlfriend,' he said, midway through the second set. 'Sorry to tell you that, mate'. Kyrgios, 20, was referring to Croatian tennis player Donna Vekic, 19. Vekic has been linked romantically to Wawrinka, who divorced his wife, Ilham, earlier this year. Fox Sports news reporter Mark Gottlieb was shocked by the 20-year-old Australian's outburst saying: 'Let's not forget #Kyrgios 'sledge' is not belitting #Wawrinka. It's aimed at Donna Vekic. A pernicious and gross form of slut-shaming.' While 3AW Sports Today tweeted saying: 'Kyrgios showed no respect. It stinks of of no respect for women, it's sexist, and low-brow and not needed in this day and age.'  But it wasn't all vitriol that was aimed at Kygrios as others took to social media to have a laugh at the incident. Sportsbet.com.au still couldn't stop themselves making fun of it all by saying that they were paying 2-1 bets after Wawrinka retired with an injury 'mainly to his pride' after what was said to him. Not that Gottlieb's Fox Sports saw the funny side saying what they did was 'gross'. Then Sportal took it a step further by showing a picture of Krygios and Kokkinakis having a good laugh together with the words' 'THEN I TOLD HIM YOU BANGED HID MISSUS'.  While Benjamin Blot had a very simple explanation for the rude outburst - '#nofilter'.   However, the large majority of tweets came out in support of the innocent bystander in all this, Vekic. She first turned heads during Warwinka's 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 third round win at Wimbledon over Spain's Fernando Verdasco last month. The stunning blonde Croatian tennis player looked thrilled by the French Open champion's victory. Dressed casually in shorts and a T-shirt, she was part of the 30-year-old Swiss tennis star's entourage at the match. Vekic herself is a promising young star who has even been hailed as the next Maria Sharapova thanks to her good looks and tennis prowess. She has quickly risen to prominence after peaking at world no. 310 in the doubles rankings in February this year. The 19-year-old won the Croatian national junior championships in 2011.      
