sport gaa
{ By Thomas Burrows and Simon Tomlinson for MailOnline   Published:  16:25, 24 June 2015   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-3137703/For-second-day-Dublin-church-plays-host-emotional-scenes-funeral-student-killed-Berkeley-balcony-accident-takes-place.html }
A grieving father paid a moving tribute to his 'caring and considerate' daughter today as mourners gathered in Dublin for two more funerals for victims of the Berkeley balcony collapse.  Relatives and friends gathered for a second day at the Church of Our Lady of Perpetual Succour for 21-year-old Olivia Burke's funeral, while a mass was held for Niccolai Schuster at the Church of the Three Patrons in Rathgar.  Yesterday, the former also played host to emotional scenes as farewells and tributes were paid to Olivia's friend from their school days at the local Loreto College, Eimear Walsh. Among the mourners at Ms Burke's funeral were relatives of Ashley Donohoe, her Irish-American cousin who died in the balcony collapse with the five other college students and who was laid to rest in California after a joint service with Ms Burke on Sunday.      They died along with Lorcan Miller, a medical student, a class mate of Ms Walsh's, and Eoghan Culligan, a school friend of Mr Schuster's. Ms Walsh's family also returned to the church, a day after burying their own daughter. Four gifts were selected by the family to remember Ms Burke. They included a Ted Baker bag for her love of fashion, a Loreto College journal to mark her happy years at school, a photo of her with her dog, a King Charles Spaniel Skipper and a throw with her life in photos printed on it which was a 21st birthday present.  Ms Burke's father Paul Burke drew her funeral to close with a reflection on her life from a shy youngster to someone who became enlightened, well-grounded and confident with many groups of friends. 'She was a caring and considerate person, I think more worried about your problems than chatting about her own – although she did chat,' he said. 'She always had a smile and loved to have a joke and a laugh at any opportunity. She loved the nightlife, out there chatting, having a good time and especially a boogie on the dance floor. 'But she countered this high life – before we get carried away – with hard work... and really had a determination to be as self-reliant as possible and her work ethic could not be faulted. 'In fact, her steely determination to succeed, to achieve a set goal no matter how high or how low it was, or how easy or how difficult, was ever present. 'I have to say that work ethic is something I particular admired over the years.'   Mr Burke made a special mention for Aoife Beary, a friend of Ms Walsh's and one of the six injured in the balcony collapse who remain in hospital in California. The grieving father also recalled the friends that his daughter had made over the years including the Blane Road Club from the family's time in Wicklow and those from Loreto College. 'I know you girls are hurting at the loss of both Eimear and Olivia, two of your group.  'I can safely say it's been a pleasure knowing you girls over recent years and I'm sure Olivia and Eimear will smile down on you and wish you good luck,' he said. Mr Burke also paid tribute to his daughter's 'cousin and soulmate' Ms Donohoe. 'Although they were separated by over 6,000 miles, they were incredibly close, right from the time they played together as little 18-month-old kids be it in San Fran or in Dublin all the way until recent years when they continued to trade visits,' he said.   He said none were more surprising than Ms Donohoe's arrival to celebrate Ms Burke's 18th birthday. 'We will miss you so much Ashley. You two guys departed this world side by side and may you be together in God's place and fondly look down on the rest of us,' Mr Burke added.   Overlooking his daughter's coffin, he showed signs of despair when he said it was the third time he had spoken at a funeral in recent years. 'I have to be honest, this time round it is a challenge to stand here. No parent wishes to see their child depart this life at such a tender age,' he said.  Foreign Affairs Minister Charlie Flanagan joined US ambassador to Ireland Kevin O'Malley and representatives of Taoiseach Enda Kenny and President Michael D Higgins at the funeral in Foxrock.  Earlier in the service, Father Frank Herron told mourners of the solidarity that has been on show since the tragedy over a week ago. 'The thought of six young people dying so far away in such circumstances and the thought of their parents and siblings having to make the long journey to bring them back home has pained us all,' he said. 'This week our community of Foxrock has reached out to each other probably as never before. In this building we looked for God and for each other.   Fr Herron added: 'Our solidarity this week has been extraordinary and is a wonderful reflection of God's solidarity with us all.'   Across the city today, a mass was held for Niccolai Schuster at the Church of the Three Patrons, in Rathgar.  His father, John, said his son was the 'love of our lives'. 'He had a magical smile, a sense of the ridiculous, he was sports mad and proud of his little brother. Oh my God, he was so special.', he said.  His mother, Graziella, told mourners at the mass how her son brought 'nothing but joy to us'. His brother, Alexi, fought back tears and said 'words cannot describe the pain I’m feeling. I’m split in two'. He spoke of his great pride in his brother, his best friend – 'the king of tomfoolery'.   His friends who lined the streets of Rathgar today wore the red jerseys of his beloved Bayern Munich with the name 'Schuster' printed on the back.  Other mourners wore the blue and white of his secondary school, St Mary's College, Rathmines.    The family of Eoghan Culligan, also killed in the balcony collapse and whose funeral took place yesterday, were amongst the mourners.  Mr Culligan's funeral was held at the Church of the Annunciation in Rathfarnham and had been attended by the Schuster family.  A guard of honour was formed outside the church by students from his former school and members of the Ballyboden GAA club, where Mr Culligan played gaelic football. His mother Marie said he had been a light in their lives, and they had lost a beacon that would never shine again.   The sixth victim, Lorcán Miller, will be laid to rest tomorrow.  The incident happened during a 21st birthday party in the early hours of June 16. Five of the six people who died were Irish students based in the US as part of a work exchange programme.    Meanwhile, one of the other Irish students injured when the balcony collapsed has been released from hospital in California. Sean Fahey, from Rathmines in Dublin, is now due to travel home to Ireland. Another six students injured in the tragedy remain in hospital.  
