sport gaa
{ By Thomas Burrows and Lydia Willgress for MailOnline   Published:  10:39, 29 June 2015   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-3142920/Young-British-couple-killed-dune-buggy-overturns-Qatar.html }
A British couple have been killed in Qatar after a dune buggy they were travelling in overturned.  Eamonn Morgan, 24, and his girlfriend Charlotte Sant were visiting some sand dunes in the Middle Eastern country when they crashed on Saturday. Two other friends, who were thought to be visiting the couple from the UK, were in the vehicle but escaped with injuries. It is believed Mr Morgan, from Newry in Norther Ireland had been living in Doha, Qatar, for the last year with Miss Sant, from Manchester. The pair were both working as PE teachers.  Mr Morgan, a graduate from John Moores University in Liverpool, was a keen Gaelic football player and had continued the sport even after leaving Ireland.   Last night Peter Crowe, chairman of Qatar Gaelic Athletic Association, paid tribute to the couple.  Describing Mr Morgan as 'an absolute gent' and Miss Sant as 'a sweet girl', he wrote on Facebook: 'It's with a heavy heart that we mourn the loss of two of our members, two of our friends, two of our family.  'I had the privilege of playing with Eamonn for the past year, an absolute gent, never to be seen without a smile on his face and the definition of a "character" as we'd say back home.  'I also had the pleasure of training Charlotte for the past year, a sweet girl, who took to a new sport with more enthusiasm than you could ever ask for! 'Eamonn and Charlotte will be sorely missed, people often don't realise at home how much of a community can be built away from home, but I can tell you, sincerely, that Eamonn and Charlotte were very much central to the community that is Qatar GAA, and it will be hard to imagine it without them. 'They will remain forever in our hearts and we are thinking of their family and friends back home.'  A mass will be held at 7pm today in the Church of Our Lady of the Rosary in Barwa. Mickey Brady, Sinn Féin MP for Newry & Armagh, added: 'Once again a dark shadow hangs over our city with the news of the tragic death of popular local lad Eamonn Morgan and his partner Charlotte.  'Our prayers are at this time with both sets of families and friends of the deceased as they try to come to terms with this terrible news.'   The Department of Foreign Affairs are providing assistance to the families.    
