{ By Martin Samuel - Debate for the Daily Mail   Published:  08:20, 30 April 2015   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-3058846/Jack-Grealish-good-games-Aston-Villa-suddenly-doesn-t-know-s-Irish-English.html }
Jack Grealish is Irish. Probably. Maybe English. Possibly. And that, for me, is the problem. Last week, after the FA Cup semi-final I wrote about the nationality issues facing football. How can a player born in England to English parents declare for Ireland through his grandparents and then, several years later, be undecided where his future lies?  As populations become increasingly fluid, and more players have the option to represent more than one country – and sometimes as many as six – isn’t it time to re-examine and update the granny rule to stop international football becoming just another extension of the club game?  I foresaw a time when agents told national associations they could ‘get’ a certain player for a fee, as they do in club football. That scenario was ignored, but there was a deluge of posts from Ireland detailing all the players who have represented England having been born elsewhere; so we’ll be sorting the patriots from the plastics – and revisiting a few columns past – as we go through.  Also, some modern ballet, when fractions go wrong – and Phil Lynott. But first, to get us in that Celtic mood, this. Be patient, it’s a builder… Martin’s point is about the process. I agree that it should be better regulated and clearer for everybody involved. In this case under the present rules the player has a choice. All countries bend the rules, including England, but there is a big difference between Jack Grealish and those that cheat using fake residency. Mrg, Maidstone. I agree. I don’t think Ireland are cheating, but I am in favour of stronger regulations and less choice. International football isn’t supposed to be about choosing your country; your country chooses you. It would be interesting to hear whether Martin Samuel’s views extend to cricket or rugby. Of the current England cricket squad, Eoin Morgan, Jonathan Trott, Matt Prior, Gary Ballance, Ben Stokes, Chris Jordan, Craig Kieswetter, Boyd Rankin, Jade Dernbach, Sam Robson, Michael Lumb, Nick Compton and Stuart Meaker are variously from Ireland, South Africa, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Australia and the West Indies. JoeyTheEye, London. The current England squad? I think you’re reaching a bit here, Joe. Of the players named, Morgan, Ballance and Jordan made it to the Cricket World Cup, Balance, Jordan and Trott to the current tour of the West Indies. So that’s four players of your 13. Still, here goes. Morgan, as far as I’m concerned, is Irish and should play for Ireland. However, as Ireland are not a recognised Test nation, it is hard to see how he can fulfil his ambitions as a Test cricketer without playing for England. My argument would be that we cannot expect Ireland to achieve Test status if their best players change nationalities – but I understand my intransigence could be considered harsh on the individuals concerned, such as Boyd Rankin. Trott is a British passport holder, but as he was born in South Africa and played for that country all the way through to Under 19 level, I think his change of nationality was opportunist on the part of the ECB. Ballance and Jordan were born and educated in Zimbabwe and Barbados respectively, but came to England as teenagers on scholarships at private schools. I have written about this in previous columns because I think it is a corrupting influence on international sport. Of course, a good young foreign player will be attracted by a public school education and the chance of playing professionally in a country where cricketers are comparatively well-rewarded. I think it is a colonialist approach and I’m against it. But this is my point. Every case is different. So Prior, who was born in South Africa but raised in England from the age of 11, came through the English system and feels more allegiance here. The same with Stokes and Meaker, who were here from 12, while Compton and Dernbach came a little later. I think that parents change countries and take their kids with them, and we can’t expect those children to be efficiently scouted by their country of birth. Yet Kieswetter is another public school recruit, while Robson and Lumb seem straight out Australian and South African. There is too much fast and loose with nationality in cricket, and rugby too, but I fear these sports are too far gone to mount a successful protest. Sorry, Joe – I know you’re looking to catch me out supporting the policies of the ECB and RFU, but I was writing about this stuff when Jack Grealish was still at school. So here’s my take on rugby from August 10, 2011. 'The most preposterous argument for the growing free-for-all in international sport was made by England’s rugby union coach, Martin Johnson. As is often the case, some of the exotic additions to his squad have strong national ties, others qualify through nothing more than a convenient manipulation of the rules, but Johnson’s endorsement of all routes to HQ summed up a modern sporting culture that has lost sight of the essence of international competition. "If we think they are the right characters and the right people then they can play," Johnson said. "I played with plenty of guys in an England shirt who didn’t quite cut it. I played with other blokes born in South Africa and Nigeria and some of them were great. It’s what you do and who you are, not particularly where you’re born." Is he kidding? It’s international rugby. How can it not be about where you are born? If it wasn’t, what is the point? If it wasn’t, why not just pick sides like they do in a playground? Gather all the rugby players and coaches in a room and take it in turns to pick. If we get to go first England can have Dan Carter at fly-half, just like a Premiership rugby club could, if it paid enough money and had an irresistible sales pitch.'  If Adnan Januzaj had decided to turn out for England would you still have the same problem? But, hey, let's change the rules because it benefits the England side. Get a grip. Conmag85, Dublin. A friend of mine, a successful football manager now retired, has a theory about Jose Mourinho and his conspiracies. He reckons Jose suspects other managers of influencing referees because that is what he tries to do. He projects his own behaviour on to others, and then accuses them of acting as he would. There’s a lot of that on here over Grealish. Conmag probably thinks that I must have welcomed England’s attempt to claim Januzaj, because that’s what he would have done in my position if Ireland had the same chance. He would simply support any method that would get Januzaj, or any player of quality, in a green shirt, so he imagines I demonstrated the same self-interest. But he’s wrong. For the record, here are three examples of my thoughts on the subject: 'FIFA have announced that they will recognise the Kosovo national football team and, with that news, Adnan Januzaj’s mind should be made up. His determination, he always said, was to make Kosovo proud – the only problem being that, in football terms, the country didn’t exist. Now it does, so now he can. And, if it has any sense of decency, our Football Association should leave the young man alone to fulfill his dreams.' January 2014 'As the Football Association’s scheme to claim Adnan Januzaj for England continued, Blackpool’s Tom Ince asked a plaintive question. "Januzaj is a fantastic talent," he said. "But there are a lot in the Under 21s that could run him close. To bypass those players by bringing someone in – what would that say?" Sadly, we already know what it would say. It would say the same thing UK Athletics said to every young athlete in the country on the day it chose Tiffany Porter as captain; it would say what British Wrestling said when it tried to pack the Great Britain Olympic team with East European ringers. We don’t care about you, it would say. We care only for our bottom line. We will offer the illusion of support for young athletes, but our concern will be measured in soundbites and no more.' November 2013. 'Januzaj has no connection to England other than Manchester United possessing the wealth to take him from Anderlecht as a teenager. Even if the FA were to double-cross the other Home Nations it would mean putting his international career on hold until 2018. Why would the FA pressurise a young man like that? Januzaj was born in Belgium, and may harbour a desire to represent his father’s country, Albania. Only a real bunch of chisellers would try to make an Englishman of him.' October 2013. Couldn't disagree with you more, Martin. The system of being allowed to play for the nation of your parents or grandparents works fine, and I'll be dead before I allow some faceless UEFA panel to decide my heritage, national allegiance or footballing future. Tran Hung Dao, United Kingdom. You have a footballing future? You know they make you use your own name on the team sheet, mate? Not some stupid alias filched from a 13th century Vietnamese commander? So the Daily Mail believe England deserves all talents and other countries don't? Loyalforgood, Staffordshire. No. Read the piece. Thinking while you do that may help too. I don't see what issue is. I grew up about four miles from the Grealish family in Solihull, my dad's side of the family are from Ireland and I have an Irish surname. I would have picked Ireland over England if became a professional as I am proud of my Irish heritage. Jack has stated he is proud of Ireland too. So give it a rest will you, Samuel. He qualifies as he has Irish grandparents. Bronson79, Solihull. Answer me this then: if he’s so proud, why the fuss, why the delay? I think nationality rules have become grey and sloppy making them open to abuse but the bottom line is that if Jack Grealish is as married to his Irish heritage as so many on here would like to believe, why is there even a debate? He declared for Ireland and that should be the end of it. But it isn’t. For some reason, he hasn’t brought the speculation about England to a stop. The suggestion is he wants to concentrate on his debut season at Aston Villa – yet what would allow him to do that more than a simple one-line statement confirming he will represent Ireland throughout his international career? And that is what I think is wrong. By all means play for Ireland – but let’s not have the auction, this game of "what can you do for me?" because international football is meant to be above that. Raheem Sterling would look great in a Jamaican kit – the country of his and his parents’ birth. My point, I trust is very clear. Christoffaloff, Ireland. Clear but irrelevant, yes. Sterling was born in Jamaica but came to England at the age of five, meaning he was the product of English schools, clubs and academies. Much like Jack Grealish in fact. I love how this is only an issue when the player is good. I bet the Football Association wouldn't have batted an eyelid had he not started a single game this season. Th3rdEye, Liège. Well, as stated he was on the FA’s radar from a young age, so I don’t think their scouting system failed. I would guess England’s development team started batting eyelids again when Grealish took a year out of international football without making it 100 per cent clear he would come back in green. That would have pricked their attention as much as any recent performances as Grealish’s potential was well known. A friend who is familiar with that age group says that he was regarded as the best player to come out of the Midlands area for some time. The thing is, Grealish might actually see himself as Irish. I am from the same area and have played Gaelic football with him in the past. Many people in the Irish Catholic community in Birmingham consider themselves fully Irish, even though their grandparents were the last ones in their family to be born there. I know your point is more about the general situation, and you are just using Grealish as an example, but I think players in his position should be allowed to pick the country or culture with which they feel most affinity. Obafemibcfc, Birmingham. I don’t disagree, Oba. What I object to is this idea of choosing your nationality as if by catalogue. I think the granny rule is allowing athletes to play the field. I mentioned a UEFA panel and here’s how I see it working. In the event of a player not representing his country of birth a request would be submitted. Cases like Sterling, who came to England at the age of five, would be rubber-stamped in two minutes. Grealish would need about five minutes longer. A letter of support, confirming the points you have made about his cultural and national affinity, would make it plain that his commitment was to Ireland, through his grandparents. But that would be the end of it. There would be no question of swapping sides a few years down the line. If his Ireland career didn’t progress beyond junior level and much later on he was wanted by England, maybe such a change could be reconsidered. But, basically, you make a decision and stick with it. Changes of nationality would require a very good case. The hype seems to have got to Ross Barkley. A couple of good games and the press jumped on him as if he were the next Paul Gascoigne. It’s the same with this kid: let him play 40 games over three seasons at a top Premier League team before you start the hype machine. Wrongturn, Dublin. And what hype machine would that be, Wrong ‘un? I thought Grealish was excellent in the semi-final against Liverpool and said so in the match report, but there were no huge claims made for him in the column. The subject was the rules of nationality – not the brilliance of Jack Grealish. The Irish are famous for stealing other countries talent because they have none themselves. Walter White, Albuquerque. Not true. Want to talk literature, poetry, plays, want to talk horse racing or Roy Keane? Indeed want to talk about Jape’s tribute to another bass-playing Irish legend. Now, I will warn you this next song contains, absolutely in context, two rude words. If you are the sort who might get the vapours or complain to IPSO, please move right along. If, however, you have heard it all before, I implore you to press play because this is quite possibly one of the simplest, greatest songs you’ll ever hear. And I never joke about stuff like that. Seriously, it is. If only Gareth Bale and Aaron Ramsey had chosen England. PrakashG555, London. They’d walk into the team, Prakash, but they’re Welsh. There’s not even a discussion. How desperate is the former World Cup winner that they're fighting with Ireland for players? A sad state. CSimm, Atlanta. They are all at it. The Republic of Ireland, under Jack Charlton, would take anyone who had the slightest connection with that country, and the Scottish tried to poach Wayne Rooney. Even going back to that World Cup in 1966, you’ll find Portugal’s hero Eusebio was born in Mozambique. Bill, United Kingdom. Bill’s right. Everyone is fighting for players. That’s the problem. There shouldn’t be fighting. Players should make a choice and stick with it and the national associations should respect those boundaries. So, you weren't worried when he represented Ireland for a number of years, but as soon as he performs well in the Premier League, it's time for him to play for England. Jay853, Bangalore. Actually, Jay, I thought he was Irish. It was only sitting next to our man in the Midlands, Laurie Whitwell, at Wembley, that I became aware there was any doubt over his international allegiance. This chimed with my thoughts on the subject of nationality in sport, and how the principles of international competition are becoming corrupted by commerce and the desire to win at all costs. I looked at Grealish’s case in greater detail and it appeared to me a rule that was introduced to solve one problem had created another. That is what the column is about: it is not an attempt to get a good young player for England. My track record on this subject is certainly not that of an FA cheerleader. The boy has obviously taken a year out of the international scene to concentrate on getting into the Aston Villa first team and to decide which country he wants to represent. It doesn't matter then what decision he made before sitting a GCSE, he will make his own mind up over the next few months. So where's the issue? Mdunne, Northampton. The issue is that allowing nationality changes demeans international sport by making it just another extension of the club game. I’m not saying the following extrapolation is true, but what if the reason behind Grealish’s sudden uncertainty is that a career as an England international is potentially more lucrative than one playing for Ireland? England get to more tournaments, draw bigger crowds, play more prestigious games, enjoy a higher profile, making them more commercially appealing. Yes, they had a bad World Cup in 2014, but at least they got there, which Ireland did not, and now the European Championship has been extended to 24 teams it is close to unimaginable that England will not qualify for that every four years, too. Ireland got to the World Cup finals when England did not in 1994 but since then have been back once in 2002, while England haven’t missed. So maybe an adviser is pointing out to Grealish that he will be more marketable in a white shirt than a green one? Now wasn’t international football meant to be the one area of the game that was immune to commercial considerations – where players turned out for love and pride and the badge and not because there was more money in it? I’m not saying this is how Grealish is feeling. Maybe he’s just confused – but if there was less choice, fewer grey areas and more black and white, we would get back to the essence of competition at that level. The best of yours against the best of ours. If England are saying it doesn't matter where you are born but where you lived growing up, then what about Michael Owen? He was born just over the English border but lived in Wales for most of his life before moving to Spain. And don't England fans bemoan the fact that Ryan Giggs played for Wales when he could have chosen England due to a relative? Or is that different as it benefits England? APrince, Bristol. No it’s different because it isn’t true. Giggs has no English relatives. Grandparents, parents, all Welsh. He played for England Schoolboys as Ryan Wilson because he went to school in England – but beyond that level he was always going to be Welsh. As for Owen, notice how you have to twist it to make your point work? So Owen was born ‘just over the English border’ but lived in Wales not ‘just over the Welsh border’. And he didn’t grow up in Spain. He moved there to play for Real Madrid having already won 60 caps for England. Still, by your reasoning Gareth Bale’s Spanish too, then? And Ian Rush was Italian, as was John Charles. Owen was born in Chester, a city in England near the Welsh border, but went to school in Hawarden, a town in Wales near the English border. His club was Mold Alexandra, just over the border in Wales, and he represented Deeside Schools – yet he supported an English club, Everton, and signed for an English club, Liverpool. Such is the complexity of life on the borders. Owen’s nationality has never been in doubt, however, just as Gary Speed, who comes from the same area and went to the same school, was always considered resolutely Welsh despite his parents and sister all being born in Chester. Grealish chose Ireland so his heart was not fully committed to playing for England. We should only want players that are 100 per cent with us. Vic, Hertfordshire. I believe Roy Hodgson feels the same way – about the principle, not Grealish specifically. Wayne Rooney, Martin Keown, Kevin Keegan, Paul Scholes, Harry Kane, Gary Cahill, Steve McManaman, Steven Gerrard, Aaron Lennon – the list of players who have represented England with very strong Irish roots is endless, but do you hear Ireland crying about it? Get a grip. Boysie, Manchester. What, do you hear Ireland crying about players that were born in England representing England? I should hope not. The players you list are respectively from Liverpool, Oxford, Armthorpe, Salford, Walthamstow, Dronfield, Liverpool, Liverpool and Leeds. Why should Ireland have any cause to moan? This is the daftest thing I’ve ever heard. The lad was has been playing Gaelic football throughout his life, even appearing at Croke Park when he was younger. His heritage belongs to Ireland and accent alone does not make him 100 per cent English. Nugesaurus, Dublin. No it doesn’t, Nuge, but the Croke Park anecdote is a little overplayed too. He represented Warwickshire GAA in a short kids match put on as the half-time entertainment of a proper game. Grealish recalls that he scored but cannot tell you the names of the senior teams playing. It sounds a nice memory – but not a life-defining one. I couldn't agree more, Martin. It’s time to play the natives who are born and bred in their countries like Sterling, John Barnes, Owen Hargreaves, Terry Butcher and Matt Le Tissier. Big Observer, Dundee. Sterling was dealt with earlier, Barnes came to England at the age of 12, Butcher was only in Singapore because his father was in the military (the same way that Jamie Heaslip was born in Israel) and Le Tissier is a Channel Islander, meaning he was eligible to play for any of the Home Nations. Leaving Hargreaves who was the only member of his family born in Canada. His mum and a brother were born in Wales, his father and another brother were born in England. He moved to Germany at the age of 16. My hunch would be that he was Canadian by birth and rather German by spirit; he started off with Wales, but then switched as the opportunity was greatest with England. I don’t think that is right and it rather sums up my point about nationality issues. I hope Grealish chooses Ireland, he'll be away from all the poisonous over-hyping that youngsters suffer when they play for England. Declan09090, Birmingham. And yet, on here, there is really not a single England fan saying we must have Grealish because he is brilliant – yet quite a few from Ireland are acting as if the FA are trying to have it away with the family silver. I've been out the country for a fortnight and came home to this kid everywhere. What has actually happened? M6cca, Coventry. He’s had a few good games for the Villa and suddenly doesn’t know whether he’s Irish. I have no problem with players representing the country of their grandparents, after all, there will be some Irish blood there in Grealish's case. What about rugby's crazy qualification by residency? Live in a country for three years, and you are then able to play for them. Coach on TV, Hawick. I know – preposterous. Indeed, when people reel off lists of rugby players and ask why writers are not always banging on about them, I think the reason is probably that rugby is viewed as a lost cause. Cricket, too. We tried and got nowhere. We’re still in with a fighting chance of making some other sports, like football, see sense. That’s why it is a battle worth fighting. A novel idea for once: how about letting Jack decide who he wants to play for? Carterrevolved, Birmingham. Even more novel: how about players picked a nationality and stuck to it? It wasn't so long ago that England were cursing FIFA for robbing them of hosting a World Cup – and rightly so. Now England want FIFA to do them a favour and change the rules. Tony, Cork. Not England, Tony. Me. The steady erosion of the principles of international competition is one of my hobby-horses. All the national associations are too busy exploiting the rules to reform them. The committee is a terrible idea. Imagine them sitting in a room asking Adnan Januzaj to prove he loves Belgium more than Kosovo. HarvSpecter, North Korea. They wouldn’t do that. He wouldn’t even have to appear. He would simply submit a letter to support his decision and they would approve it on the understanding he can’t change his mind two years later – unless Kosovo were to gain official FIFA recognition, of course, in which case special circumstances may apply. All other media reports I have read say that his father, Kevin Grealish is from Dublin. Monty, New York. And all those American newspapers are so up themselves about fact-checking too. He’s not. It’s strange how the foreign player rule is questioned when it goes against England. No mention of it when it comes to cricket. England poach players from all over the world. England's one day captain? Irish. Last Test captain before Alastair Cook? South African. You can't have your cake and eat it. Different sport I know, but the same argument. Yathino, Galway. Really? When it goes against England? Ever heard of Tiffany Porter, Yathino? When she jumped ship from the United States to Great Britain, many were highly delighted. But not everybody. Here’s my take on it from June 13, 2011. 'Charles Van Commenee, head coach of UK Athletics, has 14 months to get his team in shape for the London Olympics. "If the Games were to take place this week we would be quite thin," he said. "We need that time to build the team stronger." Fortunately, he has a plan. We’re going to cheat. 'Not literally, obviously. That would be wrong. Team GB’s cheating is more a convenient manipulation of the rules, coming together with our colonial past, to create the option of securing the best of America’s cast-offs, plus the odd Caribbean ringer. 'Next weekend, at the European Team Championships in Stockholm, Shara Proctor, a long jumper from the island of Anguilla, will join Shana Cox, a 400m runner from Long Island, in carrying the GB flag of convenience. Tiffany Ofili-Porter, from Ypsilanti, Michigan, was included earlier in the year and the usual cheerleaders who pride a podium finish above trifles such as fair play and self-respect, are already hoping our new imports will be as good. 'Ofili-Porter, who qualifies through her British mother, arrived with an established pedigree, having won bronze for the United States in the 2006 World Junior Championships, and following her conversion in 2010 wasted no time delivering on expectations. She won silver and broke Jessica Ennis's British record in the 60m hurdles on her Great Britain debut at the European Indoor Championships in Paris. Then, last month, she broke Angie Thorp's British 100m hurdles record, which had stood for 15 years. 'Ennis is pretty much a household name and could be one of the stars of the Olympics. Her 60 metre record would be a footnote in her career, were she to win in London next summer. It is different for Thorp, however. Her record, set in a semi-final heat at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta (she came fifth and did not qualify for the final), was a career highlight, and the performance of a lifetime by a British athlete. We have now allowed it to be stolen by a plastic Brit who is using Team GB to fulfil her own Olympic ambitions. Ifili-Porter would not get anywhere near the Games if representing her own country. 'She did not even win the race in which she obliterated Thorp from the record books. She was fifth, behind four Americans, and there are six Americans ahead of her in the world rankings. This makes her unlikely to medal in London, anyway. So all that is achieved with this self-serving adoption is to crush the ambitions of a homegrown hurdler, and sell another, Thorp, who dedicated her young life to her sport, down the river.' So, no, I’m quite capable of going against England, or Team GB. This was one of many articles on the abuse of national allegiance in the run-up to the London Olympics. It resonated to the extent that Angie Thorp contacted me and I dedicated a further column to her impotent anger over the loss of her record. Sorry to disappoint with consistency, but this really is more than an English recruitment drive on my part. As for Andrew Strauss, the captain prior to Cook that you mentioned, he lived in England from the age of six, and came through the English system. He was here before we had a clue he was good at cricket, and that is important.  I couldn't disagree more – this smacks of those in power trying to hold on to what they have by limiting the ability of others to compete. Why should the nation of your birth even be a factor? I am half Irish and half Portuguese by blood. I just happened to be born in East London. Why should that mean I have to turn out for England? Why do I not get a say in what nation I represent? It was not my choice to be born in England, after all. Why should such key aspects of my future be decided that way? Essentially what this article said was that it is fine for other countries to have the leavings of the English team but God help them if they get to pick first at England's expense. Cockney Kiwi, New Zealand. I’m sorry you didn’t understand the article. If you don’t get that, I’m not sure you’ll get this either – but the weird backing vocals are by Gavin Friday, who is a mate of Bono’s, and Mark Smith once described the rhythm section as good Jesuit lads, so by your reckoning that probably qualifies them to play for Ireland. After all, why should where you are born have any bearing on international sport? Silly me. The song is Copped It by The Fall, by the way.  Saido Berahino was born in Burundi, Cyrille Regis in French Guiana, Wilfried Zaha in the Ivory Coast, John Salako in Nigeria. Let's not pretend England haven't exploited these rules too. Brummy Dan, Birmingham. Exploited? Every one of those players you mention were here as schoolboys. Regis arrived aged four as did Zaha. Salako went to school in Sevenoaks. Britain welcomed these kids before anyone had a clue they were good footballers. Berahino fled a civil war after his father was killed and came here aged 10 speaking only French. His place in our society was a gesture of kindness and inclusion, not exploitation. A lot of people can be born in England, speak English and live here all their lives but feel more connected to their ancestral home because in their household that is all they see. Grealish may be born here but it is highly likely in his home everything is very Irish. EdFolz, Liverpool. I don’t disagree, Ed. Take Lennox Lewis. He was born in England but his family moved to Canada and he boxed for them at the Olympics. There was always a debate about his true nationality, yet I always felt he belonged to neither country, deep down. The times I spent around him at fights in Las Vegas, he always seemed to have his true roots in Jamaica. He may dispute that, but I’ll see him outside if he does. Let the lad play for the country he wants to play for. It's sport, not conscription. Just because you're born in a place, it doesn't automatically make you that nationality. There's far more to nationhood than that. My cousin was born in Mauritius and spent the first years of her life there when her father was in the Navy. She defines herself as British, not Mauritian. JMOWT, Belfast. Well of course she does. Terry Butcher had a similar experience and that was mentioned in the column. If you think this is about tying people rigidly to their place of birth you have utterly misunderstood the point. The last time I looked, Britain was a free country. You can be who you want to be. A lot of people with Irish blood are very proud of the fact. Galimh, Lanzarote. Er no, in terms of international sport you can’t just be who you want to be. Surely you understand that? There are rules, qualifications. Boundaries. That’s what sets it apart. We have pinched many non-English people from many sports. Kevin Pietersen being one that stands out. DieHardRedMan, Stockport. Indeed. I think Ballance might stand out by the end of his career, too. Blah, blah, blah. Let’s talk about cricket or rugby. lbrodge86, Cork. OK, let’s. The current Ireland rugby squad includes Richardt Strauss and Robbie Diack, both born in South Africa, New Zealanders Michael Bent, Isaac Boss, Jared Payne and Nathan White, London-born Mike McCarthy and Kieran Marmion and Dan Tuohy from Bristol. Ireland’s cricket squad includes Alex Cusack, an Australian, South Africa’s John Anderson and Max Sorensen, Stuart and Andrew Poynter from Hammersmith and Tim Murtagh from Lambeth. Oh, sorry. Did you mean you wanted to talk about England’s rugby and cricket teams, because you were going to say they include players not born in England? And you thought nobody had noticed that Ireland’s policy was no different. Oops. I noticed. Nobody seemed to mind when Linford Christie won the gold medal for Great Britain although born in Jamaica. StewQuietly, Uckfield. Indeed. Although that could be because he came to England at the age of seven, lived in Acton and competed for the Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham as a schoolboy. I think Mr Samuel is being disingenuous with his concern for the Irish youth set up. Clancyfx, Saudi Arabia. Not really. That was my point throughout the Plastic Brits campaign. If UK Athletics stuffed the team with ringers, what message did that send to young, aspiring athletes? Earlier I mentioned Angie Thorp having her British record broken by an American athlete running beneath Team GB’s flag of convenience. Here is another extract on the subject – from a column published on June 27, 2011. 'National records can be obscure creatures. The casual fan – once every four years, if it’s on the telly – thinks of the 400 metres and the name that springs to mind is Michael Johnson (43.18 seconds in Seville in 1999) not Iwan Thomas (44.36 in Birmingham two years earlier). But, to those that turn out on frozen mornings in outposts like Wombwell, South Yorkshire, those lesser numbers have meaning. Those figures are the targets and the names in the record books are still the greatest of all-time. And if you are a fire fighter with a dodgy knee, whose career was ended by injury while still in her twenties, being there in black and white as Britain’s girl to beat meant an awful lot. It is the reason Thorp’s contemporaries such as Colin Jackson are equally outspoken on the Plastic Brits issue. They know about the frozen mornings, the dark and dreary sessions in driving rain, the sacrifices, the scant reward that comes from being an aspiring athlete in Britain. They recognise how it must feel when a young Olympic contender realises that dream is now further away than ever because of a policy without loyalty or ethic, one that asks only, "what can you do for me?"' Irish grandparents on his father's side? So his dad is fully Irish then, making Jack Grealish half Irish? Lo, London. Admit it mate, when they were doing fractions at school you’d bunked off, yes? I think in a truly international sport like football you should only be able to play for the country where you were born. It would lead to a few situations that aren't ideal but would be far better than what is happening now. It would help some of the minnows, too. Having Sterling play for Jamaica would do a massive amount for their football. FredJones95, London. Yes it would, Fred, but it would tie Sterling to a country he barely knows, rather than one in which he grew up. The rules shouldn’t be inflexible, but it should be hard to change nationalities, and a player shouldn’t be able to cite grandparents one day and forget them the next if a better offer comes along. So, it's OK for a player with an Irish grandparent to represent Ireland if he is not good enough for England? But the Irish grandparent rule should not apply to players good enough to represent England and a UEFA panel should see to this? Dana, Mellor. It’s a little more complex than that but in a quick capsule, if you want to use the granny rule go ahead, but you must then stick to it. Footballers like Graeme Le Saux. Other athletes like Mo Farah, Luol Deng, Justin Rose, Bradley Wiggins, Chris Froome, Manu Tuilagi, Mako Vunipola, Kevin Pietersen. Obviously no problems there, but let’s draw the line with Grealish and strip him of his rights. Aaron W111, Dublin. Probably the best comment ever recorded on this website. Take the day off, you deserve it. Cass, Dublin. You obviously don’t see enough of the debate, Cass. Just last week there was a bloke who thought Manchester United and Arsenal didn’t get written about if they went on a losing streak. And there was this chap who tried to do some funny stuff with an anagram of my name once, but couldn’t spell it. No, Aaron is well down the list of my favourite contributors. For a start about a hundred people have already made his point and, secondly, he’s wrong. Right, here goes. For Le Saux, read Le Tissier as explained earlier. Same thing. He’s a Channel Islander so could choose any one of the four home nations and picked England. What were the FA supposed to do? Leave him dangling? Farah was a refugee from Somalia at the age of eight; Britain accepted him before anyone knew he could run and he was schooled here. His success is one of the triumphs of our multi-cultural society. Same with Deng: born Sudan, educated in Croydon. Over here from a young age. Justin Rose’s family came here when he was five and he learned to play golf at Tylney Park club in Hook, Hampshire. Wiggins was born in Belgium because his Australian father was a professional cyclist, but came to England at the age of two. Tuilagi was a fixture in Hinckley’s Under 14 team, while Vunipola was born in New Zealand but raised in Wales and then Gloucestershire. So six of the names you mentioned actually came through the English schools system and many spent more time here than in their country of birth. Pietersen switched from South Africa, as is well established, and Froome, while born to English parents with brothers schooled in England, came through junior cycling schemes in Kenya and South Africa – but that might explain why his profile in England is slight compared to Wiggins, Sir Chris Hoy and Victoria Pendleton. Do you know, I might take the day off after this. It’s been quite tiring. Seriously, Aaron, and a few others, you could have checked this stuff yourself; or are you genuinely arguing that everyone should just have to play for the country in which they are born. Because that makes Grealish English, you know. And the bulk of Ireland’s Under 21 team. Don't be so greedy, England. Irish immigrants have already furnished you two forwards in Rooney and Kane. Dougmichaels, Antwerp, Netherlands. Yes, if you think Antwerp is in Holland I can see how nationality might be a confusing issue for you, Doug. Funny how you never made mention of it when on Sunday Supplement last year you stated you were praying Adnan would choose you. Why is that? Robbie Murphy, Dublin. Because I never said it, Robbie. You are mistaken. My thoughts on Januzaj were published, well-known and I wouldn’t have announced the opposite on television. England had no claim on him. None at all. Now, I might have said he would be a good player for England, but that is a statement of fact, not a wish or a prayer. Januzaj would be a good player for anybody. It is worth noting that the reason Ireland don't produce top players is because the domestic league over there is ignored and has been left to rot for 20 years by the Irish football public – who prefer to watch televised football over their own teams – and the Irish FA. Clubs don't have the money to set up academies. Hendrox, Newcastle. It’s an interesting point, Hendo. If the fans aren’t massively interested in the League of Ireland why would the national scouts seek to protect native youth players? For a nation that has a population of 53million and can afford to leave players like Michael Carrick on the bench for most of his career, then of course the granny rule will not mean much. But for a nation with a population of 4.5m then it can be something extremely important. If the boy chooses the nation of his grandparents because he adored his grandparents then you can't really argue with that; if he chooses England then good luck and respect to the kid. BananaMan, Dublin. That’s very generous of you, B-Man. Not sure the rest of your countrymen would feel the same way if Grealish switched now, but I totally understand your point about the relative worth of the granny rule. I am not wholly against its use, as I stated, but I think as the movement of populations becomes more fluid there will be an increasing number of players who could go in multiple directions, sometimes as many as six ways, and then international football becomes just another extension of the club game. That is why I want to see the rule reviewed to give it more meaning. I also understand that some countries, such as Ireland, have a history of economic migration that makes the rule more relevant. Again, no problem with that: but it shouldn’t become an auction. That’s all. What about Danny Welbeck? Isn't he Ghanaian? People in glass houses, Daily Mail… Gerrythelad, Dublin. Should maybe do a three-second internet search before posting, Gerry. Welbeck was born in Manchester. Tough. Ireland have been poaching our players in Northern Ireland for years thanks to a ridiculous rule that allows players to choose which side they wish to play for regardless of being born here or not. Smokiewater, Enniskillen. No, they haven't been stealing talent. Any player born in Northern Ireland has the right to represent either the Republic or Northern Ireland. There are many people in the North who identify themselves as Irish, just as many identify themselves as British. It is down to the individual and it is ludicrous to try and dictate where a person or sportsman feels they are from. Keving89, Dublin. The Republic of Ireland even send scouts to our youth games to note our most talented kids so they can be approached. Even kids born outside Northern Ireland to Northern Irish parents or grandparents are eligible for them. RaveDave, Banbridge. The Northern Ireland situation is unique. Citizens of Northern Ireland also get an option of a British and Irish passport, due to our troubled history. I agree it's harsh on Northern Ireland but people in the North who consider themselves Irish would have to listen to God Save The Queen as their anthem if they played for Northern Ireland. This is unfair and it won't appeal to a large number of people in Northern Ireland. Do you remember what happened to Neil Lennon? Captain of his country and was sent death threats because he played for Celtic and was a Catholic. CrazyTalk, Cork. A colleague of mine once said that if you can see both sides of an argument as a columnist, you’re screwed. And I admit, I’m screwed on this particular Irish problem. I understand the policy, but I can see why those in the North would feel aggrieved, particularly if Republic of Ireland scouts aggressively pursue the best youth players. The idea that even a grandparent from Northern Ireland gives the Republic of Ireland an introduction seems an unfortunate development, too, and supports the tightening of rules on nationality. Having said this, and recalling Lennon’s experience, I can equally see why players born in Northern Ireland are given this option. Golfers, rugby players, cricketers all play for united Irish teams. Given the history it would be real head in the sand stuff to imagine that a person born in the North might not feel greater cultural and spiritual allegiance with the south. The poster from Cork isn’t crazy at all; it is a unique situation, and one that lends itself to a softer approach. Anyway, we’ll reach across all borders with The Chieftains and Van The Man to finish. Until next time.     
