{ By Press Association   Published:  11:57, 9 July 2014   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/pa/article-2685879/ANSWERS-DEMANDED-OVER-BROOKS-FIASCO.html }
By Press Association   Published:  11:57, 9 July 2014   |  Updated:  11:57, 9 July 2014    City chiefs, concert promoters and stadium owners are being summoned before a parliamentary watchdog about the Garth Brooks comeback special fiasco in Ireland. As 400,000 fans worldwide await details about ticket refunds after the country music star pulled out of the shows, parliamentarians said they wanted to question all sides involved as early as tomorrow. Dublin City Council, Aiken Promotions and the Gaelic Atheltic Association (GAA), which owns the Croke Park stadium in Dublin where the gigs were to be held, are being ordered before the Oireachtas Transport Committee over the affair. Patrick O'Donovan, an elected representative of the Government party Fine Gael and member of the parliamentary watchdog, said TDs (MPs) and senators wanted to get to the bottom of what went wrong. "Four hundred thousand people have been inconvenienced and thousands, who had booked flights or hotels, will be out of pocket, due to this decision," he said. "Fingers have been pointing in every direction over the past few days, people are angry and they are bitterly disappointed." Irish premier Enda Kenny yesterday said Brooks' decision to pull out of the extravaganza after being granted permission for just three out of five planned gigs was a shock to the system. The top selling US singer, who turned his back on touring to raise his family in Oklahoma 13 years ago, had issued an all-or-nothing ultimatum last week, saying he would play the five nights or none at all. The star said to choose one show over another "would be like asking to choose one child over another". Promoters are expected to release details today of refunds for ticket holders left out of pocket. Mr Kenny has claimed the cancelled concerts could cost the Irish capital in the region of 250 million euro (£199m). 
