sport gaa
{ By Carol Driver for MailOnline   Published:  09:00, 26 March 2014   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/article-2589642/Canadian-astronaut-Chris-Hadfield-fronts-Ireland-tourism-campaign.html }
By Carol Driver for MailOnline   Published:  09:00, 26 March 2014   |  Updated:  09:46, 26 March 2014     View  comments A retired astronaut who became an internet hit with his cover of David Bowie's Space Oddity aboard the International Space Station is spearheading a tourism campaign for Ireland. Canadian Chris Hadfield, who also posted images to Twitter from space, began his new role as an ambassador to promote the Emerald Isle today.   He shot the online films - called An Astronaut's Guide To The Island Of Ireland - during a trip earlier this where he spent several days taking in the attractions. Scroll down for video Ground control: Retired astronaut Chris Hadfield at Malin Head, County Donegal during filming for the video   Internet sensation: Chris Hadfield returning from his space mission, during which he tweeted images from space   Tourism Ireland is hoping the world-wide interest in the former astronaut, who beamed stunning shots of Ireland from space while he was commander of the International Space Station last year, will help woo holidaymakers.  The first film - An Astronaut's Guide To The Wild Atlantic Way - features Donegal and the scenery of the Inishowen Peninsula.  It also includes charming footage of Mr Hadfield learning 'cupla focal' Gaeilge from some of the local schoolchildren in Buncrana as well as an evening of traditional music in McGrory's of Culdaff. Must-visit destination: The videos feature places popular with tourists, such as the Inishowen Peninsula, County Donegal   The other three films, which will be rolled out around the world from tomorrow, feature the attractions of Titanic Belfast and the Guinness Storehouse, plus footage of Hadfield learning to play hurling at the GAA clubs of Na Fianna in Dublin and Cushendall in Co Antrim. Tourism Ireland chief executive Niall Gibbons said: 'I would like to thank Chris Hadfield for his tremendous generosity in agreeing to help us promote the island of Ireland around the world.  'He is an enormously popular, global figure and I am confident that the four films we have created of his visit to Ireland will be seen and shared by millions of potential holidaymakers around the world - inspiring them to come and sample the destination for themselves.' Tourist hot-spot: The Titanic Centre in Belfast, Northern Ireland, features in the videos   Mr Hadfield became an internet hit when he recorded a cover version of David Bowie's Space Oddity from the ISS in 2013, and drew public attention to space missions by tweeting images of the earth from space. Transport, Tourism & Sport minister Leo Varadkar said he was 'delighted' to have Hadfield's help. He added: 'Chris Hadfield is one of the few people on earth who has seen Ireland from space, and on the ground.' 
