sport gaa
{ By Mikey Stafford   Published:  00:49, 26 March 2014   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/golf/article-2589490/Lowry-bids-rediscover-love-golf-finally-live-expecations.html }
By Mikey Stafford   Published:  00:49, 26 March 2014   |  Updated:  00:49, 26 March 2014     View  comments Shane Lowry knows how to win and he knows he needs to win sooner rather than later. The problem is he now knows how hard it is to win. The Offaly golfer announced himself to the world back in 2009 when, as a 22-year-old amateur, he beat Robert Rock in a play-off to win the Irish Open at Baltray. A week later he turned professional and it took him more than three years to record his next win on the European Tour, at the 2012 Portugal Masters. Barren spell: Shane Lowry knows he needs to win sooner rather than later   His best result since then came at last year’s Alfred Dunhill Links, where he finished in a tie for third place, one shot behind the winner David Howell. His third win could have come on the famed Old Course at St Andrews, but he has a feeling his 22-year-old amateur self would have had a better chance of victory. ‘I remember playing the final round of the Dunhill last year, one ahead with seven or eight to play, and I remember the nerves I was feeling,’ he said. ‘I remember the nerves I was feeling in Portugal and I thought to myself afterwards, “I can’t remember feeling those back in Baltray”. It’s hard but you back yourself to do well. ‘If you could bottle that feeling from Baltray, you’d sell it.’ But if you can’t have the fearlessness of youth you need to be good, very good, according to the 26-year-old.    At the highest level of golf the pool of talent has never seemed deeper, with relative unknowns winning all four events on the PGA Tour’s Florida Swing. Russell Henley, Patrick Reed, John Senden and Matt Every upstaged the world’s top golfers in the Sunshine State over the past four weeks and Lowry said this is typical in a sport that has never been so democratic. Next up: Lowry plays the NH Collection Open at La Reserva de Sotogrande   ‘No matter what tournament you play there are between 100 and 120 guys playing and I genuinely believe anyone can win. If someone brings their A-game they can win.  ‘Now, if Rory [McIlroy] or Tiger [Woods] or the top players bring their A-game then they are going to be hard to beat,’ said Lowry, currently ranked 114th in the world, down from his 2013-ending rank of 76th. ‘It is hard. People don’t realise how hard it is to win. Even Irish people don’t realise how good Padraig Harrington is.  ‘I think Padraig was every bit as good as Brian O’Driscoll is and people don’t see that,’ said Lowry, who will play the NH Collection Open at La Reserva de Sotogrande next week before embarking on the European Tour’s next Asian leg. ‘It is hard to win on tour and it is especially hard to do well at major events. The standard is so good, everyone works so hard and puts so much into their game.  ‘You just have to do everything you can to give yourself the best chance of winning.’   Recognised as a special talent, Lowry now realises he must harness hard work, focus and ambition to best exploit a natural sporting ability which saw him outshine New Zealand’s record try-scorer Doug Howlett and Dublin GAA stars Bernard Brogan and Joey Boland in a multi-sport skills contest hosted by insurance company AIG. His primary goal, however, is to get back to enjoying the sport he decided to make his profession after that 2009 triumph in County Louth. ‘If I gave my girlfriend a call after a round and I was in bad form it was because of my golf. I hate being like that, I hate being like that,’ he said. ‘I needed an extra little bit of focus when I’m at home. If I sit down and plan my time a little bit better, set some long-term goals and short-term goals and try and achieve the long-term ones. Most of them are totally nothing to do with golf.’ Been a while: Lowry holds the trophy after winning the Portugal Masters in 2012   One goal that has everything to do with golf is to climb 64 places up the world rankings before Christmas to secure his place at the 2015 US Masters.  The world’s best golfers will gather in Augusta next month for the first major of the year and, having experienced the other three blue riband events in his short professional career, Lowry – who celebrates his 27th birthday next Wednesday — is desperate to take on Amen Corner and Rae’s Creek the next year. ‘I am going to do everything I can in the next six to nine months to do that. It is top 50 in the world by Christmas, which is a decent goal of mine.  ‘I am trying to focus on the process of doing everything I can to get there,’ said Lowry, who knows that will require a return to the winner’s enclosure. ‘I’m going to have to win a big one — or two or three — you never know, win as many as I can!’ On the scene: Lowry made a big impression when winning the Irish Open in 2009       
