{ By Liam Heagney   Published:  23:18, 26 December 2013   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-2529664/Tom-Hayes-finally-home-ready-life-rugby.html }
By Liam Heagney   Published:  23:18, 26 December 2013   |  Updated:  23:18, 26 December 2013     View  comments Rugby slipped away quietly from Tom Hayes last month. Unlike his brother John, the Grand Slam winner who brought the house down at Thomond Park when he bowed out after the Munster-Connacht Christmas fixture two years ago, word of the second row's retirement gained little traction in Ireland.  Bad timing was to blame. The revelation that he had been beaten by nerve decompression in his back, which caused the loss of power in a leg, coincided with the announcement of Joe Schmidt's national team to play Samoa. The Limerick man, though, deserves more than a cursory nod of recognition. After a circuitous route, Hayes became one of the longest serving Irish captains ever at an English club.   Calling it a day: Tom Hayes was beaten by nerve decompression in his back    Munster didn't want to know when Hayes, who had been backboning the Shannon pack in the early 2000s, took a punt in 2005 and joined Championship outfit Plymouth Albion. It was rugby in the shadows, a 'Discover England' escapade, but those hard yards led to a switch up to Exeter three years later and the rest, as they say, is history.   Hayes led the Chiefs to Premiership promotion in 2010 and they have since, admirably, more than held their own. Consecutive top six finishes qualified them for two Heineken Cups and, tomorrow, they play at a packed Twickenham against Harlequins, the side only ahead of them by a point in fourth in this season's Premiership.  Hayes won't be there. Having said his Sandy Park farewells when presented with a signed jersey at half-time in the recent European match against champions Toulon, Hayes and wife Rachel packed up the car last Friday in Exeter and drove home to Limerick, via the ferry, with their two kids - three-and-a-half-year-old son Tomás Óg and daughter Daire (21 months), their dog and all the presents.  Christmas with a difference. No rugby. Just quality catch-up with family and friends. It's needed. Having invested so much time in his sport and thinking it mightn't be until 2015 when he would be contemplating retirement, the 33-year-old now has plenty of decisions to make about the future.   Farming is in the blood - he was reared on the land in Cappamore - but the costs are prohibitive.  'I've been doing a little academy coaching at Exeter, but hopefully I can use my quantity surveyor degree,' he says, relieved he has a few months grace as he was contracted with Chiefs until the end of this season.   'I've a couple of months to look into things and see what suits me best. I'll be looking both sides of the water, but jobs are hard to come by. We just have to be fairly open-minded and see what we can make work.  Happy days: Tom Hayes says he has enjoyed a good run    'I would love to get into farming but trying to get hold of some land is the issue. It's ridiculous money. Even in England it's hard enough. Trying to do it where it's profitable and makes sense is an awful lot easier said than done.'  If there's a consolation for Hayes it's that retirement wasn't a snap decision. He'd an inkling it might be coming, so, mentally, he's in a good place. 'I'm not sitting at home crying into my cornflakes every morning,' he shrugs.   'Life moves on. I'd a good run. At 33, it's not a tragedy my career has ended this way. It's not ideal and I would have liked to do a bit more, but it's not the end of the world.   'I can't complain too much. I can't say I'm happy about it but it wasn't a complete shock. It was coming over a while. A long goodbye, a long process.   'I had an injury last spring and needed an operation in April. The plan was to be ready for pre- season [training]. That didn't happen and then it was to be ready for the pre-season friendlies.   'But I was still having issues and it just didn't work out. I wasn't able to keep going. I saw a couple of surgeons and there wasn't much they could do. They said it would be in my best interest to retire.  'Nerve decompression meant I lost the power in my leg, had numbness in my foot and stuff like that. My ability to make explosive movements was gone. I was missing tackles that I wouldn't miss 12 months ago, I was struggling to get to a ruck in a hurry and it affected scrummaging and mauling. It was affecting me too much.' Fitting finale: John Hayes bowed out after the Munster-Connacht Christmas fixture two years ago    He talked things through with coach Rob Baxter.  'In some games I sat on the bench for 80 minutes. That summed it up because Rob just didn't trust me to be able to do it and I wouldn't really argue with him, either.  'I had hoped to fulfil the contract this year and then, ideally, squeeze another year. That would have taken me to my 35th birthday, but it wasn't to be.'  The rugby exploits of the Hayes' brothers illustrates what late starters from a GAA background can achieve, though.  'We've done well for a couple of muckers,' quips Tom, reflecting on a career that began at Under 14 in the Bruff front row.   'My team trained the same night as John, so I jumped in with him and loved the whole abrasive nature and the discipline of rugby.  'When people said you show for seven o'clock for rugby training people showed for seven o'clock. It was different from GAA. You were just constantly busy and had a job to do on the rugby pitch whereas you could spend 50 minutes of a GAA match with hands on hips doing nothing.'  Rugby was the perfect solution - up until last month.      
