sport gaa
{ By Mike Dawes   Published:  20:22, 19 August 2013   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/othersports/article-2397436/Hawk-Eye-suspended-hurling-blunder.html }
By Mike Dawes   Published:  20:22, 19 August 2013   |  Updated:  20:22, 19 August 2013     1 View  comments Ireland’s Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) has briefly suspended the use of its Hawk-Eye system following an error on Sunday, the same day the goalline technology made its Premier League soccer debut. In an under-18 hurling match at Dublin’s Croke Park on Sunday, Hawk-Eye overruled a goalline umpire by adjudging that a ball went wide despite its own graphic showing that it had sailed over the bar. The game finished in a draw and the opposing team won in extra-time. Turn off: Hawk-Eye was suspended after a mistake in an under-18 hurling match   The GAA suspended the use of the system for the senior hurling semi-final that began directly after and that was watched by more than 60,000 spectators. It said it had begun a review in conjunction with Hawk-Eye. “It is expected Hawk-Eye will be in full working order for next Sunday’s minor (under-18) and senior football semi-finals,” the organisation said on its website (www.gaa.ie). Hawk-Eye, which has been successfully implemented in tennis and cricket, began a two-year trial at Croke Park stadium in June to help officials rule on contentious scores in hurling and Gaelic football. Technology: Hawk-Eye has been implemented in the Premier League this season   Both games feature rugby-style goalposts and points can be scored by aiming the ball over the crossbar and between the posts. The ball often flies above the seven-metre height of the goalposts, making it difficult for officials to decide whether a shot has gone wide. Hawk-Eye, owned by Japanese group Sony, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Good call: Hawk-Eye correctly ruled that the ball had not crossed the goalline during Chelsea's 2-0 win over Hull   The British-based company’s technology has been adopted by the English Premier League this season and was seen in action for the first time on Sunday when it correctly ruled a ball had not crossed the goalline in Chelsea’s 2-0 win over Hull City. Hawk-Eye is sponsored in Ireland by Specsavers.    
