sport gaa
{ By Daily Mail Reporter   Published:  19:59, 29 March 2013   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-2301274/Dermot-OLeary-official-tosser-attends-charity-real-football-match-country-attire.html }
By Daily Mail Reporter   Published:  19:59, 29 March 2013   |  Updated:  20:07, 29 March 2013     18 View  comments He is a loveable household name known for his various roles on the TV and the radio. But on Friday Dermot O’Leary tried his hand at something else, as he took on the role of the official tosser at charity ‘real football’ match. Dressed in full country attire the X Factor host got the game off to a flying start by throwing in the ball. Let the games begin: Dermot O'Leary throws in the ball at charity 'real football' match on Friday in Kent  The dapper presenter shunned his usual tailored suits for a pair of chinos, green wellington boots and a wax jacket. Completing his look he wore a blue flat cap, leather gloves and scarf around his neck for the match which was held in Chiddingstone, Kent – the same place where he got married last year.  Despite not being known for his sporting prowess the 39-year-old looked more than comfortable handling the ball. Trying hard: Dermot gave an impressive throw as he got the game going   Ready? The TV star really embraced the countryside look wearing a flat cap and leather jacket  And when the game, which is believed to be a mix of rugby and football, began the radio DJ really got into the spirit of it and was seen cheering from the sidelines. Dermot was joined by his wife Dee Koppang who looked chic in a stylish blue overcoat with gold buttons, a tweed hat with a bobble on top and a pair of wellington boots.  Following the game, he tweeted: 'Thanks to all at Chiddingstone for another great day #gemofengland, 'Quite surreal game of no rules football. #chiddingstonerealfootball #countrydrunks.' Sensible choice: Dermot made sure he wore practical footwear opting for a pair of wellington boots   Fun day out: Dermot was joined by his wife Dee, who looked like she was enjoying the day as much as him   Getting into the spirit of it: Dermot and Dee embraced the event and were seen laughing and cheering  It is no surprise that the TV personality was invited along to the game, as he is very passionate about football. Not only does he support Arsenal F.C., Celtic F.C. and London Irish RUFC, he also supports Wexford GAA in Gaelic Games. Earlier this month Dermot was forced to close down one of his fish restaurants, in Poole, Dorset due to the economic climate. Lad: Dermot hung out with the players once they had finished and was given one of the charity T-shirts   Photo op: Ever the professional the TV star pulled his best grin as he had his picture taken with the group  However despite the Fishy Fishy eatery coming to an end there, his Brighton Branch of the show continues to go from strength to strength.  Meanwhile Dermot is gearing up to present the X Factor for the sixth year running.  Speaking recently about the role he insisted that the show is about talent and hard work and is not for ‘wannabes.’  Bundle: Dermot watched the game which is reportedly a mixture of football and rugby   
