{ By Valerie Hanley   Published:  02:02, 13 January 2013   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-2261586/The-Health-Minister-committee-chief-signed-IMO-chief-s-multi-million-retirement-package-members-disputing-knew-lavish-deal.html }
By Valerie Hanley   Published:  02:02, 13 January 2013   |  Updated:  03:07, 13 January 2013     View  comments Golden handshake: IMO chief George McNeice Health Minister James Reilly was a member of the Remuneration Committee whose chairman approved a package that could potentially have led to a €20m pension payout to the IMO’s outgoing CEO George McNeice. Following an initial claim for a €24m pension package, the IMO sought legal advice and was told he was in fact entitled to €20m. The parties eventually settled on a €9.7m package.  The deal sees Mr McNeice, from Killarney, leave with a €1.5m lump sum along with a pension pot worth €4.5m and a further €3.75m to be paid over the next 16 years.  Now some members of the committee are disputing whether the group ever discussed or were informed about the details of the multimillion sweetheart deal. An IMO spokesman told the Irish Mail on Sunday last night: ‘James Reilly was on the Remuneration Committee of 2003 but there is some dispute among a number of members as to whether the committee ever met or as to whether they were advised about the contract.’ However, a spokesman for the minister refused to comment last night when asked about the mininster’s possible role in the scandal that has convulsed the medical union. In a text message reply, spokesman Mark Costigan said: ‘We are not making any comment. Can I again draw your attention to the following. I note from the six o’clock news on RTÉ that it’s not clear what precise role the Remuneration Committee played. Ingrid Miley says the IMO say they met to consider bonuses without knowing the base salary of the CEO.’  The late Dr Cormac Macnamara, former IMO president, was head of the committee when he approved the phenomenally generous contract.   Further to that Mr McNeice, 51, initially claimed he was entitled to a €24m package. And his contract also seems to have allowed for a highly unusual and extraordinarily generous arrangement which granted him an annual bonus of 30% of his salary.  It is believed that each year the bonus was added to his salary and the following year’s bonus was calculated as 30% of the new salary.  The MoS has also been told that the former CEO was awarded bonuses by the Remuneration Committee despite the fact that the committee members did not even know what Mr McNeice’s base salary actually was.  Despite the package being halved, many IMO members are livid – 30 have resigned from the union.  Other members gathered at the Mullingar Park Hotel yesterday for an extraordinry general meeting called to try to explain how the low-key Killarney man had managed to build up such a lucrative package.  Comfort: Mr McNeice's south Dublin home  Most had learned of the bumper deal only after union management and officials were summoned to a crisis meeting at the IMO’s offices in Fitzwilliam Place, Dublin, before Christmas.  Only a few of those present knew what was about to emerge. When details of Mr McNeice’s multi-million pension pot were revealed during the course of that EGM, most people in the room were stunned.  A source told the MoS: ‘All the heads of the various IMO committees were there. So, all told, there was about a dozen people there.  ‘It was a bombshell. People were gobsmacked, they just couldn’t believe what they were hearing. It was the first they had heard of this.  ‘People were angry because, as far as they were concerned, they knew nothing about this massive pension pot whatsoever. ‘Now everyone is blaming someone else,’ said the source. ‘It looks like a lot of people were making assumptions that other people knew what was going on and they claim in turn that they didn’t know. So there were a lot of assumptions… ‘Put it this way, a lot of people had a micro view but very few, if any, had the big picture of what was going on. ‘Some people who were at the meeting are so angry they are taking legal advice,’ said the source. The late Waterford doctor Cormac Macnamara served as IMO president for three years from 1990 to 1993. However, he maintained a hands-on presence in the union after stepping down and served as head of its Remuneration Committee for several years.  That contract awarded Mr McNeice an annual salary of €250,000. Between 2003 and 2005 he was also entitled to two separate bonuses. One of these was worth 30% of his annual salary and the second was referred to as an exceptional performance payment which was worth 33% of his salary.  Although the performance-related bonus ceased seven years ago, Mr McNeice continued to receive an annual bonus worth up to 30% of his annual salary until 2008.  These bonuses considerably boosted the father of one’s salary. The MoS understands that each year’s bonus was added to Mr McNeice’s salary so the combined figure then became his starting-off salary on which the following year’s bonus was calculated.  Black tie: George McNeice, James Reilly, and the IMO's Paul McKeown  The extremely lucrative arrangement meant that by 2008, the CEO’s salary was €492,000. An IMO spokesman explained: ‘There were two contracts but the only agreement that is relevant is that signed by Dr Cormac Macnamara in 2003. He was the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.’  It was that 2003 contract that also awarded McNeice his astonishing pension. The terms of the pension has left many in the organisation scratching their heads. The spokesman said: ‘This contract talks about a defined contribution scheme but also talks about a defined benefit that it would pay.’The defined benefit scheme was originally designed to award Mr McNeice two-thirds of his final salary – which would have amounted to €328,000.  There is speculation that in recent negotiations relating to his pension, Mr McNeice may have suggested taking legal action against the IMO for allegedly trading with insufficient reserves.  Documentation mistakenly uploaded onto the IMO’s website last year included an auditor’s note stating: ‘The IMO Pension Schemes are significantly underfunded in terms of contractual arrangements. A full actuarial review is underway. However, preliminary advice is to increase the funding.’ What is clear is that during the course of these negotiations Mr McNeice threatened legal action if the IMO did not agree to his demands. The spokesman said: ‘The purpose of the settlement was to avoid legal action. Our legal advice was if he did take legal action he would win.’ Mr McNeice could not be contacted for comment last night.  By Niamh Griffin Even as he was earning his salary and bonuses as the IMO’s chief executive, George McNeice was also earning fees for acting as a director of at least one company owned by the Irish Medical Organisation.  Since 1995 Mr McNeice has served as the company secretary of Medisec, which describes itself as a ‘not-for-profit company run and controlled by Irish GPs’, and which provides advice, risk management and mediation services to doctors in Ireland.  One of the other directors on the company since its inception was the late Dr Cormac Macnamara, IMO president from 1990 to 1993, who personally approved Mr McNeice’s lucrative pay and pension arrangements. Each year between four and ten directors sat on the Medisec board. While payments to individuals are not detailed, company records for the last 17 years show that directors fees averaged between €2,820 each in 1995, reaching a peak of €24,500 each in 2011. In total since 1995, the company paid out directors fees of €1,256,339, an average of €162,058 per director. Mr McNeice was one of only two men who acted on the firm since it was set up, and as company secretary it is possible Mr McNeice received a higher than average payment each year.  It was not clear last night if IMO members are aware that Mr McNeice had earned these fees in addition to his final salary of €492,355.   Phone calls, emails and texts sent to Mr McNeice seeking a response last night received no reply.   By Valerie Hanley Every year he received a standing ovation from highly paid doctors and consultants at the IMO’s annual conference in the plush surroundings of the Hotel Europe in Killarney.  But who is the softly spoken former civil servant walking away with a pension package worth €9.7m at the age of 51? The fourth eldest of five girls and four boys, George McNeice was born in 1961 at Killarney District Hospital. At the time, his father Jimmy was a clerical officer with the council and a staunch member of the Legion GAA club in Killarney. He instilled the same love for Gaelic football in his son – which he has maintained all his life. Indeed, George’s sister, Juliette, is married to Fine Gael MEP and former GAA president Seán Kelly. Another sister, Eileen, is married to Ger Galvin, Vice Chair of Kerry County Board. After completing his Leaving Certificate at St Brendan’s College, George left Killarney for UCD. Former classmates remember him as a quiet and unexceptional student and few were surprised when George started work as a civil servant at the Department of Health. One of his contemporaries said: ‘George was always quiet. Some of the lads went on to become doctors and vets but he didn’t stand out at all. Many of us are surprised he managed to secure a deal like this.’ George’s stint at the Department of Health was brief and after a couple of years he swapped the dour surroundings of Hawkins House for the IMO’s more salubrious offices on Fitzwilliam Place on the southside of Dublin City. It was 1984 and, shortly after his arrival at IMO House, George met Waterford GP Dr Cormac Macnamara. Even then Macnamara was regarded as a prominent figure in medical politics. Many members of his family were doctors and he is the only medic to have held the post of IMO president for three consecutive years from 1990-1993. That the two men were close seems indisputable. It is also clear they worked as a powerful partnership for more than 20 years steering the IMO.  A former insider at the organisation recalled: ‘Dr Macnamara may have been IMO president for three years but he and George McNeice made many important decisoins about the union. Before the AGM in Killarney every year, they would float various names of likely contenders for various positions on committees.’ While undoubtedly popular with the IMO membership, George was always careful to keep people at arm’s length. He kept a low profile.  ‘Cormac would come up to Dublin from Waterford in his chauffeured Merc one day a week and, even when he was no longer IMO president, Cormac still held significant influence. Many of those who became president were allies of Dr Macnamara.’ Meanwhile, George McNeice seemed to have little difficulty adapting to life in Fitzwilliam Place. Louis Copeland became his tailor of choice and he acquired a taste for luxury footwear.  A colleague said: ‘I remember sitting beside him at a meeting 15 years ago and he had inadvertently left the price tag on his new shoes. I didn’t know what he was paid but, when I saw the price of his shoes, I suspected he must be on at least the same as consultants – he had paid £500 for his shoes.’ Meanwhile, as George’s career progressed so too did his personal life. He befriended GP Emer Loughrey and the couple set up home together in Mount Merrion, south Dublin. Their daughter, Sarah Anne, was born at the Rotunda Hospital in 1997 and George modestly listed his profession on her birth certificate as ‘trade union official’. Despite being the public face of the union throughout his tenure at the IMO, George nevertheless made a determined effort to keep a low personal profile. As a result, his favoured watering holes are those close to his home – The Orchard in Stillorgan and O’Dwyer’s in Kilmacudd. He also shunned high-profile golf clubs in favour of the more modest Wicklow Golf Club.  ‘You’d see him in Doheny & Nesbitt’s sometimes but he prefers to drink locally. He is a complex man. Some find him affable but then people who worked closely with him could find him difficult to deal with.’ Another source who had business dealings with Mr McNeice said: ‘I was at meetings with him and I rarely heard his voice. He came across as grumpy and it left me thinking, ‘what exactly does he do for the IMO?’ I mean it is only a lobby organisation for a small union. ‘But he always wore beautiful suits and was always a smart dresser though.’ 
