{ By Daily Mail Reporter   Published:  10:35, 27 November 2012   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-2239099/Im-A-Celebrity-2012-presenters-Laura-Whitmore-Amanda-Byram-fun-sun.html }
By Daily Mail Reporter   Published:  10:35, 27 November 2012   |  Updated:  14:00, 27 November 2012     76 View  comments It’s a jungle out there… or at least it is for starving Helen Flanagan and her I’m A Celebrity rivals. But just a few miles away, TV presenters Laura Whitmore and Amanda Byram have struck gold on the Gold Coast – and are only too keen to flaunt it. While the celebrities brave cockroaches and rats in the dank rainforest, the bikini-clad Irish duo have been lapping up the rays at their luxury hotel’s pool – and posting the evidence on Twitter. Hard work: I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here presenter Laura Whitmore kicks back at the poolside with a tub of ice cream And Bray girl Laura seemed to be really rubbing it in when, just as it was revealed former Corrie star Helen had begged the show’s producers for chocolate, she was pictured scoffing a marshmallow, caramel and chocolate tub of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream. ITV2 favourite Laura flew out to Australia to co-host spin-off show I’m A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! NOW! with former Eastenders star Joe Swash last month.  And her VBF Amanda jetted in to the Gold Coast at the weekend as a guest presenter on the show. Girls on film: Amanda Byram and Laura pulled some poses as they frolicked in the cooling swimming pool   Making a splash: Laura was the centre of attention as she was thrown up in the air by Joe Swash and Amanda Dubliner Amanda told her 53,000 Twitter fans how she was enjoying plenty of after-hours fun with Laura, Sugababe Heidi Range and I’m A Celebrity… hosts Ant and Dec. ‘Most impromptu and hilarious night I’ve had in a while. Involved a Sugababe, an Ant, a Dec, a @joeldommett and a lot of “monkeys with TB” chat!’ she Tweeted. The globe-trotting former model said she was thrilled to be heading Down Under for some fun before Christmas. ‘Right then, London, I’m outta here… it’s time for another adventure and Australia is calling! #fundownunda #backsoonforsomechristmasspirit,’ she Tweeted at the weekend. King of the jungle: Joe Swash looked pretty content as he lay covered in sand surrounded by his group of bikini-clad girls She and Laura have become close friends since Amanda moved from America to London last year.  They are part of a close circle of Irish celebrities living in the English capital that also includes The Voice star Bressie and Laura’s boyfriend, The Coronas’ Danny O’Reilly, who meet up to watch GAA games on TV. The day job: I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here Now! presenters Joe Swash, Rob Beckett and Laura Whitmore   
