sport gaa
{ By Ken Foxe   Published:  01:53, 23 December 2012   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-2252366/Oireachtas-STILL-doles-expenses-TDs-entitled-Two-years-MoS-expos-s-audit-finds-58-claims-wrong.html }
By Ken Foxe   Published:  01:53, 23 December 2012   |  Updated:  03:27, 23 December 2012     View  comments A new reform put forward by Brendan Howlin, The Minister for Public Expenditure, will make the expenses system more secretive The Oireachtas has once again wrongly paid out money to wellpaid politicians for illegitimate expenses claims.  An audit of expenses claims made by a group of 12 senators and TDs has found that more than half of them had received payouts that they should never have been given.  In total, more than €16,000 had to be paid back by seven of the 12 politicians for illegitimate claims made in 2011 based on an audit by accountancy firm  Mazars. Yet instead of a need for more political transparency, a new reform by Public Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin announced in the budget will actually make the expenses system more secretive. The 12 politicians audited are a ‘sample’ of the 119 politicians who claimed vouched expenses – audited under Oireachtas rules.  One TD had to pay back €7,500 and two ministers were among the seven who made incorrect claims. The latest revelations come two years after this paper exposed how former TDs Ned O’Keeffe and Ivor Callely, who was also a senator, had been paid expenses on foot of claims using bogus invoices. Both men are now the subject of criminal investigations.  Yet despite those revelations and the investigations since, €157,000 may have been wrongly paid out last year, with some 69 TDs or senators making incorrect or illegitimate claims, if the new audit is representative of the 119 politicians claiming such expenses.  Alarmingly the new report has revealed that the Oireachtas continues to pay out money without verifying that politicians have in fact spent the funds they claim according to the rules.  Vouch for me: Taoiseach Enda Kenny with Derek Keating TD who was told to pay back €7,571 DEREK KEATING of Fine Gael had to refund the most money of all when he was told to pay back €7,571 of the nearly €21,000 that he had claimed.The Dublin TD publishes details of his expenses on his website.  It reveals he had to repay €1,194.50 spent on ‘Historical and Educational Visits to Leinster House, tea/coffee, delegations, groups, residents etc’.  Another €1,736 spent on ‘photography’, €350 on ‘Training for Dáil’ and €4,290 on ‘printing had to be returned.  No receipts or further explanations for the spending are given. Mr Keating said: ‘It really is a matter for the Oireachtas and the independent auditors. I got a phone call from them saying look, this is our interpretation of matters.  ‘I didn’t quibble, I didn’t argue, and I paid the money immediately. I had a different understanding of what was allowable before that.  ‘I don’t want to get into the realms of an argument. I decided to opt for vouched expenses because I’ve always believed in transparency, particularly in the age we are living.’   He said every politician - rather than a sample - should be audited each year.  ‘The spirit of a vouched system is full accountability,’ he said. The audit was carried out on claims last year but Mr Howlin’s new rules will make the system even more secretive.  Under his reforms nine out of ten TDs and senators will never have to provide a single receipt to back up their expense claims under a so-called ‘vouched’ regime. Instead TDs and senators simply claim for the amount they say they have spent and do not provide receipts to back them up.  Mr Howlin trumpeted the new system in the Budget by saying it was ‘untenable to have a system of unvouched expenses’.  Jim O Reilly said he wasn't sure of the practicality of auditing every single TD and senator JOE O’REILLY of Fine Gael said he had been asked to return €1,400 of the €22,643 that he had claimed in expenses in 2011. The TD for Cavan-Monaghan seemed to believe that he could spend taxpayers’ money on donations to charities and GAA clubs and be repaid through expenses claims. Mr O’Reilly says it related to ‘promotional expenditure’ he had undertaken, which he only discovered was not  allowed when his claims were audited.   ‘The first thing I would say is that I do accept the findings of the auditor; they call it and that is absolutely fine.  A good chunk of my expenditure was money that I understood to be promotional, money to GAA clubs and money to charities.   For example, I gave money to the county board of Cavan GAA, they run a thing called Club Breffni and I contributed to that.  I also give to the local club, Bailieborough Shamrocks, along with a number of very worthy charities, Brainwave and so on.’   Mr O’Reilly, pictured, said he wasn’t sure of the practicality of auditing every single TD and senator, saying it could become ‘very cumbersome’ but there’s definitely an argument for a ‘larger sample’. Under his new rules, all ‘unvouched allowances’ will be removed and replaced with ‘vouched expenses’.  However, the only method of policing the claims is a system of random audits, under which one in ten politicians will be asked to provide evidence of their spending.  Receipts are not submitted and are not subject to Freedom of Information requests – under which the bogus invoices used by Callely and O’Keeffe were uncovered by The Irish Mail on Sunday. Mr Butler said the rules and regulations were 'very confusing' FINE Gael TD Ray Butler explained how he had employed a parliamentary assistant on a part-time basis and made expenses claims for that. The Meath deputy said: ‘I was told at the very first meeting of the Fine Gael parliamentary party not to rush into hiring somebody, so I employed somebody temporarily. ‘I thought I was allowed to claim for that but I wasn’t.  'And then I advertised for a full-time person and was told I was not allowed claim for that advertisement either,’ said Mr Butler, pictured.  ‘I did exactly what I was advised but that did not turn out to be the right thing.’ Mr Butler said the rules and regulations were ‘very confusing’.  ‘It should be black and white, but it’s anything but,’ he said. He has been asked to pay back €4,923.69 in expenses and says he will do so by February. In total, Mr Butler had claimed €16,210.  The audit said he had been ‘unable to show receipts/relevant documentation, within allowable expenditure categories’.  Politicians only have to hold on to the receipts for five years but then can simply destroy them without them ever having been examined. The invoices remain entirely exempt from FoI legislation and cannot be obtained by concerned members of the public or media organisations for examination. Enid O’Dowd, a campaigner seeking further transparency in the expenses system, said Mr Howlin’s  Budget remarks had been entirely misleading. She said: ‘Only 10% of the payments under this scheme are subject to audit and the FoI Act does not apply. The Minister did not mention the Act being extended to the vouched scheme.’ Mr Howlin’s Department confirmed it would not be making any changes to make the expenses regime more transparent.  TWO Government ministers were forced to pay back expenses after failing to do the maths properly on their claim forms. Junior Education Minister Ciarán Cannon had to repay €308.57 of his €15,105.82 claim when it was found he could not show ‘receipts/relevant documentation’ for it. A similar situation arose with Junior Health Minister Alex White who had €466.72 of his claims rejected and was asked to pay a refund. Junior Minister Kathleen Lynch was also audited but all of her claims were found to be in order by Mazars, the firm contracted to carry out the inquiries. Cabinet members cannot be subject to audit as they fall under a different expense regime and are paid by their individual Departments.  Pay refund: Ministers Ciarán Cannon, far left, and Alex White  
