sport gaa
{ By Michael O'farrell   Published:  00:12, 5 August 2012   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-2183837/Peter-Darragh-Quinn-Welcomed-hero-local-GAA-club-retire-luxury-mansion.html }
By Michael O'farrell   Published:  00:12, 5 August 2012   |  Updated:  16:54, 5 August 2012     View  comments HAVEN: Peter Quinn Jr, who is believed to be living with his parents in Enniskillen It's 7.30 on a Wednesday evening and Peter Quinn is leaning against the metal railing at the side of the Roslea Shamrocks GAA pitch in Co. Fermanagh. One mile – a mere 1609 metres away – to the south is the border with the Republic where Mr Quinn would be arrested and imprisoned on sight.  The length of just a dozen GAA pitches is all that separates him from the clutches of the Irish authorities. But rather than preparing for another night in a cell behind the walls of Mountjoy Prison as the courts have ordered him to, Peter Quinn is amicably chatting to his friends without a care in the world. His home team – Teemore – is preparing to take the field for their opening game in this year’s county championship: having already been to three club games since going on the run three weeks ago, he was hardly going to miss this one. Wearing his trademark glasses, which unnaturally accentuate his piercing eyes, he chews gum incessantly, occasionally spitting it out and kicking it away with a pointy pair of brown leather shoes. To his left in the team dugout sit several Teemore substitutes dressed in the team’s green and white hooped kit, and to his right several young children are passing a ball between themselves. The scene is little different from that repeated in countless GAA clubs throughout the country as club sides compete for the glory of their village – except that in this case many in the crowd are acutely aware of the presence of Ireland’s newest, and most notorious, fugitive. They are also intensely protective of him and quick to intervene if anyone unwelcome approaches him.  It’s now clear despite the predictions of many that Peter Quinn has no intention of returning to join his cousin, Seán Quinn Jr, in prison.  SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO RELAXED: Peter Quinn Jr, right, at ease as he watches his home team Teemore on Wednesday evening   REFUGE: The fugitive financier has no problem blending in with his fellow fans at Roslea   HOME BOY: ‘He’s not going back south,’ says his father, former GAA president Peter Quinn Senior    AMONG FRIENDS: The media have been kept away from the nephew of Seán Sr  And despite being a wanted man with a warrant out for his immediate arrest, he can remain in Northern Ireland – and any other country bar Ireland – indefinitely unless a criminal charge is brought against him and extradition is sought. Embraced and protected by friends, family and a local GAA network – which has openly and brazenly shunned the authority of the Irish State – Peter Darragh Quinn can’t be touched. This week, in an interview with Enniskillen’s Impartial Reporter newspaper, his father Peter confirmed for the first time that his son would not be returning to Ireland. ‘Peter is back in Northern Ireland and he’s not going back... his family will not be attempting to persuade him to go back,’ he said. Peter Quinn Sr is a former GAA president and a former member of the Parades Commission of Northern Ireland. Since failing to appear in court on July 20, Peter Quinn is believed to have been living with his parents at the family home, close to Enniskillen town centre He was also appointed as the chairman of the board of TG4 by Noel Dempsey and is a non-executive director and investor in the Belfast Media Group which runs newspapers in Ireland, Northern Ireland and the US. Yet despite a long association with political institutions and the Government in the Republic, Peter Quinn Sr is now openly challenging the very authority of the Irish Government and courts when it comes to the affairs of Seán Quinn Sr. ‘There is a conspiracy to make sure he doesn’t win the case, involving Anglo, the Government including the Department of Finance and the regulatory body, including the Central Bank. ‘There is systematic and systemic collusion to make sure Seán Quinn doesn’t win the case and they are succeeding with the support of the national media, including RTE, BBC and the national dailies. ‘People aren’t being told the truth, that Anglo was involved in illegal activity, defrauding investors and overstating their balance sheet,’ he said. Deserted: Peter Quinn Jr’s country retreat near Enniskillen, complete with electronic gate Absent from the interview is any mention of the fact that this illegal activity is in fact being pursued by gardaí and that members of Anglo’s management team have been charged and are facing prosecution. If convicted, they would also face jail terms. Meanwhile, Peter Quinn Jr – a man who was famously caught on tape admitting he was prepared to lie in court – remains at large despite his role in disseminating assets worth hundreds of millions beyond the reach of the Irish authorities. ‘He’s very unhappy and under a lot of pressure, but he can’t stop living his life.  This is what happened when the Irish Mail on Sunday’s Michael O’Farrell approached Peter Quinn Jr at Roslea Shamrocks GAA club and asked him why he had gone on the run from the law... michael o’farrell: ‘Peter, hi!’  [Offers his hand for Peter to shake] pETER qUINN: ‘Hi.’ [Accepts the handshake] m o’f:  ‘How about an interview?’ pq: [Aghast] - ‘I don’t think so.’  m o’f: ‘Peter, just talk to me for one second, that’s all it will take – and I promise I’ll leave you alone. Are you going to go back?’ pq: [Silence. He rushes for the clubhouse.] m o’f: ‘Are you going to go back, Peter? Will you do the time?’  pq: [Silence] m o’f: ‘Talk to us for a minute. Even just a sentence. Will you go back?’ pq: [Silence] m o’f: Please Peter, answer the question. Will you go back?’ PQ - [Silence] m o’f: ‘Why did you run, Peter?’  pq: [Silence] supporter: - ‘For f*** sake leave the man alone, he’s watching a GAA match. Give the man some peace.’ ‘He’s entitled to go to football matches, as am I, without being photographed,’ Mr Quinn told the Impartial Reporter. The photo he refers to was taken during a match at Fermanagh’s Kinawley GAA pitch last week and first published in the MoS last Sunday.  The match was a tense and fearsome clash of two strong teams – Tempo and Belcoo – but it also aptly demonstrated the battle lines which have been drawn by the thousands of Quinn supporters in Co. Fermanagh. With the ground packed to capacity, every spectator was greeted at either side of the gate by placards urging everyone to attend a Ballyconnell rally in support of the family last Sunday. In the end, thousands would turn up for the rally, including a number of prominent figures from the religious, political and sporting worlds.  There are reports that some reporters covering the protest were threatened and warned as tensions ran high. Later that day when Peter Quinn attended a championship double header – Roslea versus Derrygonnelly and Devenish versus Lisnaskea – at Enniskillen’s Brewster stadium he was greeted warmly by many as he sat in the stands with friends. It appears that he was afforded a degree of protection at this event as there are reports that several photographers from national newspapers were inexplicably escorted off the ground. Appearing completely at ease, Mr Quinn mingled freely with the crowd and chatted with friends. Once again placards supporting the Quinns advertised last week’s rally of support. Since failing to appear in court on July 20, Peter Quinn is believed to have been living with his parents at the family home, close to Enniskillen town centre. Parked outside are what’s believed to be his two cars – a luxury silver Mercedes with a Northern Ireland registration and a black 04 Audi with a Dublin registration.  Pizza deliveries, friends and family can be seen coming and going frequently but despite the obvious presence of people inside no one ever comes to the door to answer knocks or the doorbell.  Half way down a small cul-de-sac, the home’s  window blinds have been permanently drawn for two weeks now and neighbours refuse to talk when approached.  For now, Peter’s own home, several miles away, remains empty. But no doubt he hopes to be able to return once the media spotlight on his case has faded. The luxury country property, protected by electric security gates and an intercom, appears newly built and nestles in a picturesque hillside on Innismore – an island in the Erne Shannon waterway. Nearby dozens of luxury yachts and cruisers are berthed as tourists relax shoreside in a local hotel while their boats are refuelled. The home is also half way between Enniskillen and the Quinn stronghold of Derrylin – a small two-pub town where Peter is rumoured to have socialised in recent weeks. A couple of miles south beyond Derrylin and directly opposite the Northern Ireland entrance to Quinn Cement is his local Teemore GAA club which last week caused controversy by issuing a political statement of support in favour of Peter and the Quinns. Having received at least €474,974 in salaries from Quinn companies between April 2011 and February this year – and that’s just the money which is known about – he will have few financial worries in the short term.  He was also caught on tape discussing secret cash payments for the sale of Quinn assets, so there may be far greater wealth secreted offshore or in secret bank accounts. And for as long as ‘Petey’ stays North of the border – and protected by his community – it is the taxpayers of the Republic who will have to foot the bill for his family’s gambles on Anglo Irish Bank, their stewardship of Quinn Insurance... and their decision to defy the courts and sell off assets which by law now belong to the Irish people.   
