{ By Daily Mail Reporter   Published:  09:03, 23 May 2012   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-2148573/Michaela-McAreavey-murder-trial-Court-hears-newlyweds-frantic-bid-revive-honeymoon-bride.html }
Terrifying: Michaela McAreavey (pictured right with husband John) cried out in anguish when she was strangled on her honeymoon in Mauritius, a court heard today A newlywed's frantic bid to revive the body of his lifeless bride was outlined in harrowing detail as prosecutors opened the case against the men accused of her murder. John McAreavey desperately tried to help his lifeless wife Michaela after finding her lying senseless in the bathtub of their honeymoon suite at a Mauritius luxury hotel, the Supreme Court in Port Louis heard today. Jurors were told how, that morning in January last year, the couple were happy. They were having breakfast together before John went for a golf lesson and Michaela decided to go for a dip in the pool at the Legends Hotel. Chief prosecutor Mehdi Manrakhan said they then met up for something to eat at the restaurant beside the pool. He said: 'After having had their lunch Michaela ordered tea and went to her room to fetch her biscuits which she was fond of having with her tea. 'John stayed behind at the restaurant and waited and waited for her to come back. Members of the jury, Michaela would never return to John.  This was the last time that John saw his beautiful wife Michaela alive.' Concerned as to what had happened to his wife, Mr Manrakhan said Mr McAreavey settled the lunch bill and went back to their room - 1025. Ordeal: John McAreavey, centre, widower of Michaela Harte, arrives with his father Brendan, right, at the Supreme Court in Port Louis, Mauritius where two men are standing trial for her murder a year ago He said: 'Reaching room 1025, since John did not have his magnetic key card with him, he had to knock on the door.  'Seeing that there was no answer he decided to go to the hotel reception to ask for help. A bell boy accompanied him back to room 1025 to allow him to enter the room.  'Members of the jury, as soon as John entered room 1025 his worst nightmare began. In the bathroom John saw Michaela lying senseless in the bathtub.  'John removed Michaela from the bathtub, laid her on the floor and went to cry for help. The bell boy who had accompanied John was still in the vicinity of room 1025. 'They both went back to room 1025 where John tried to revive Michaela. Members of the jury, it was too late. Michaela was already dead.'  The court heard earlier today how Michaela had cried out in anguish when she was strangled on her honeymoon. Accused: Avinash Treebhoowoon (left) and Sandip Moneea (right) are standing trial this week for the murder Mr Manrakhan said a witness heard a scuffle taking place in room 1025 at the Legends Hotel, saying: 'He heard a female voice crying and then 'Agh, agh, agh' as if she was in pain.' He claimed the witness - Raj Theekoy - then saw the two men accused of the murder leave the room. Mr Manrakhan added: 'This was a dream honeymoon for John and Michaela, which turned into a nightmare.' Defendants Avinash Treebhoowoon and Sandip Moneea deny the charge of premeditated murder. Mr Manrakhan said medical examinations showed Mrs McAreavey died from asphyxiation due to compression of the neck.  He said: 'Medical evidence is such that there can be no doubt that Michaela had been brutally killed.' Today is the second day of the trial. Yesterday, Mrs McAreavey's widower came face to face with the men accused of her murder in court. John McAreavey, who married Michaela Harte just twelve days before she was found dead, is a witness in the the trial. There was chaos at the court yesterday as hundreds of members of the public fought for a seat at the most sensational trial the Indian Ocean paradise island has ever witnessed.  Mr McAreavey, 28, a player with Gaelic football club Down GAA, briefly stared at the accused as he took his place with the rest of the witnesses for the prosecution. The trial is expected to last two weeks after both the accused - workers at the hotel where Ms Harte, 27, was found strangled in a bathtub - pleaded not guilty to her murder. When asked how he pleaded, floor supervisor Moneea, 41, rose to his feet, held his hand in the air and declared to the judge: ‘My lord, I swear I did not kill her.’ The day’s drama began at 8.20am when police vehicles, sirens blaring, brought Treebhowon and Moneea into a side entrance of the Supreme Court in downtown Port Louis.  The front gates of the complex, locked the previous day, were opened at 8.30am in advance of a trial set to mesmerise Mauritius and Ireland. Complete chaos ensued when crowds swelled and started to congregate at the bottom of the steps leading to the courtroom at 8.45am. A tense atmosphere had been building from the early morning. Treebhowon and Moneea were handcuffed as they were led past the unruly onlookers, up the steps and into court shortly after 9am. Shortly afterwards, the Harte and McAreavey families arrived and had to push through a frenzied melee to get into the courthouse for the start of the case.  On trial: A sobbing Treebhoowoon pictured arriving at court. He pleaded not guilty to the killing Security men and police officers tried in vain to clear a way through crowds assembled at the steps of  the building. John McAreavey, who was with his legal representative Dick Sui Wa, appeared visibly shaken. Family members of the accused, nearly 50 potential jury members, dozens of court staff, police, almost 60 reporters and countless onlookers poured into the area below the court before the session began. More than 40 journalists who had been herded into a small corridor by police had to be led downstairs when court officials realised there was little or no room. Minutes after the Harte and McAreavey families made their way up the two flights of stairs to Court Number Five, police waved waiting crowds up. There was a stampede up the steps and into the courtroom and almost 200 people battled for a seat.  More than 20 barristers and legal representatives filled the first bench. Among them were defence counsel Ravi Rutnah and Sanjeev Teeluckdharry representing Treebhowon and Rama Valayden representing Moneea. A number of barristers, who will be holding a watching brief for key witnesses, were also seated in the front row.  Brice Lunot, the manager of Legends Hotel, where Michaela was killed, and two staff members – Mark Olive and Mohammad Imrit – have a lawyer observing on their behalf. Raj Theekoy, a former Legends employee who has turned state witness, also has a watching brief present in court. Two PSNI officers, accompanying Michaela’s relatives in an advisory role, and an official from the Irish Embassy in South Africa also sat next to the family. Behind them, both wives of the accused sat quietly. Reshma Treebhowon was accompanied by her husband’s mother and father. Further along, Reckha Moneea, in court with her mother, began to take notes on a reporter’s notepad. Dressed in a smart charcoal suit, she removed a sheet listing the prosecution witnesses from her bag and began to mark off names. On the left-hand side, the accused men took their seat in the dock. Avinash Treebhowon, dressed in a cream shirt and dark trousers, sat just metres from Sandip Moneea, who wore a patterned blue and white shirt and dark trousers. In a corner in the far left of the room, Mr Lunot, dressed in a dark navy suit, watched as John sat quietly talking to his father. Minute by minute, more and more witnesses made their way in and stood in any free space they could find. Nightmare in paradise: The couple's room at Legends Hotel in Grand Gaube, Mauritius Luxury holiday: A view of the swimming pool at the five-star Legends Hotel in Mauritius, where the newlywed couple were staying A short time after, any witnesses present were asked to step outside by a court official. As witness number 24, Mr McAreavey, was obliged to join them. His father followed him and the courtroom door was closed. Judge Prithviraj Fekna entered the room at 10am and lawyers on each side introduced themselves to the court, as did each watching brief. The judge then asked each defendant if they understood English. Treebhowon said he would require a translator. Moneea told the judge he understood English. Michaela’s brother Mark stared intently as a charge was read to the men by a registrar.  It said: ‘On or about the 10th day of January in the year 2011 at Legends Hotel, Grand Gaube, in the District of Riviere du Rempart: 1. Avinash Treebhowon, then aged 29, room attendant at Legends Hotel, residing at Dhalia Road, Plaine des Roches, and 2. Sandip Moneea, then aged 41, floor supervisor at Legends Hotel, residing at School Lane, Petit Raffray, did criminally, wilfully and with premeditation, kill one Michaela Mary Harte, an Irish national also known as Michaela Mary McAreavey.’ Both men were then asked to enter a plea. When Moneea replied, ‘My Lord, I swear I did not kill her,’ he was told by the judge to reply guilty or not guilty, to which he responded: ‘Not guilty.’ Through his translator, Treebhowon also entered a not guilty plea. Happier times: Michaela and John with her father Mickey Harte, left, Bishop John McAreavey and the groom's father Brendan McAreavey at their wedding at St Malachy's After the court session Mr McAreavey’s sister Claire read a statement on behalf of the McAreavey and Harte families. She said: ‘This is a very distressing time for both our families and the days ahead will be very difficult for us.’ Quivering slightly, she went on: ‘We hope that the media will understand that we are anxious that nothing will be said or done that will compromise or prejudice the due process during the trial.  ‘We appreciate the interest and support of many media outlets over the last year but we hope that whilst here in Mauritius, the media will recognise and accept our need for space and privacy for the duration of the trial.  ‘We want to make it clear that we will not be making any statements before the end of the trial, nor will we be taking any questions in order to respect the court proceedings. Thank you for your support and we ask for your prayers at this time.’ Michaela, a schoolteacher from Tyrone, was just 27 when she was killed. Her father, Tyrone GAA football boss Mickey Harte, said at the time: ‘What a day she had on her wedding day. She was just radiant, a beautiful girl, and I just loved her to bits. So did her whole family. We are so devastated.’ 
