{ By David W B Burnside   Published:  13:34, 9 March 2012   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//debate/article-2112635/Now-time-Ireland-rejoin-Commonwealth.html }
By David W B Burnside   Published:  13:34, 9 March 2012   |  Updated:  13:34, 9 March 2012     41 View  comments On Monday more than 50 countries including 32 republics will celebrate Commonwealth Day with the added celebration this year of the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee.   The Commonwealth remains an association of friendly countries, independent in nationhood but historically inextricably linked. Following the Queen’s historic visit to the Republic of Ireland last year, with the warm reception she received from all sections of society, now is the time for the Irish Republic to rejoin the Commonwealth.   The Queen received a warm reception from the majority of Irish citizens, including students and staff from Trinity College, Dublin, during her historic trip to Ireland last year Relations between the Irish Republic and the UK were at their lowest ever point in the last third of the twentieth century because of the troubles.  Ministers in Charles Haughey’s Government shamefully helped to found and fund the Provisional IRA.    The Republic continued its imperialistic, constitutional claim over Northern Ireland as an integral part of the Irish Republic, gave succour and support to IRA terrorism and refused to extradite murderers across the border to stand trial for their crimes.  Overall, the Republic did not act as friendly neighbours to the United Kingdom.  How that has now changed. Prince Phillip eyes up a pint of Guinness at the Guinness Storehouse, Dublin, on the second day of the Queen's visit to Ireland last year The Belfast Agreement brought the Irish Republic in from the cold. It recognised Northern Ireland as part of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland’s constitutional position can now only be changed by the will of the majority of the electorate in Northern Ireland.   Hopefully terrorism has been pushed into history. The IRA as an operational organisation is no longer active and has decommissioned its armaments. The terrorist leaders of ‘the troubles’ have integrated into the political peace settlement at Stormont and former IRA terrorists have become democratic politicians.   Unsavoury as it is for many to deal with people like Adams and McGuinness, we are better where we are now than where we were during the troubles. Britain’s recent £7bn loan to Dublin in the Republic’s hour of need as it faced the eurozone meltdown underlines Britain’s commitment to Ireland, her closest neighbour. The trip was not without its demonstrations however as this picture of a youth pushing a flaming bin into riot Gardai in Dublin shows Last year’s Royal visit to the Irish Republic, with all the symbolism it contained - the Queen's visit to the Gardens of Remembrance for both British servicemen and also Irish Republicans who died during the War of Independence; her visit to GAA headquarters at Croke Park - all contributed to establishing a warm and friendly relationship for the future.   The old Fianna Fail Republicanism of De Valera, who withdrew the Irish Republic from the Commonwealth after the Second World War, should now be replaced by the independent Irish Republic rejoining the Commonwealth, where many thousands if not millions of Commonwealth citizens of Irish descent now live.   Ireland rejoining would benefit and be good for Ireland, good for the Commonwealth and finally symbolise, after the Queen’s visit, the restoration of full diplomatic and friendly relations between the United Kingdom, including Northern Ireland, and all our Commonwealth friends from around the globe.   It would also be a wonderful present to and recognition of Her Majesty’s very successful visit last year and a crowning success this year during her Diamond Jubilee.   How wonderful it would be if she could end her visits round the United Kingdom, started this week in Leicester, by visiting Dublin and welcoming an announcement from the Irish Republic that it wanted to rejoin the Commonwealth.  David W B Burnside is a former MP for South Antrim and member of the Northern Ireland Legislative Assembly at Stormont. He is now the Chairman of communications consultancy, New Century. 
