{ By Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  21:52, 1 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/celebrity/article-7743945/Im-Celebrity-Ian-Wright-forced-dig-filthy-toilet-insect-infested-trial.html }
He's been roughing it out in the Australian jungle with his fellow campmates on this year's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! And Ian Wright was put through his paces once again as he took part in a Hell-Evator Bushtucker Trial on Sunday's episode of the ITV competition series. The BBC Sport commentator, 56, appeared petrified as he rummaged through filthy sinks, furniture and even toilets in order to collect stars for his co-stars. Sporting clear goggles, the former Arsenal forward was terror-stricken as he held onto his chest while entering a chamber infested with creepy crawlies. The Woolwich native screamed in horror as he took to three different levels of a secret bunker, with the star being required to search for stars at each level.  In the tense challenge, Ian - who had to find 11 stars in total - kicked off the task with a smile on his face, but his enthusiasm was quickly knocked once insects started to fall on him.   He branded Hell-Evator 'the worst lift' ever as he managed to collect only two stars on the first level, which featured appearances from snakes.  Injecting a hint of humour into the trial, the media personality spoke to a selection of toads and rats on the second level of the elevator as he joked: 'Look at this frog…hey guys'.  Arguably the dirtiest level, Ian reached the third floor - where he was required to collect stars from a mucky toilet and a bath - which included a large crocodile. Following the trial, the TV and radio star said he was disappointed in himself, despite scoring an impressive seven stars.  He admitted: 'We will eat but I’m disappointed as I’d set myself a target of eight stars.'   When Ian returned to camp, Andrew Maxwell - who has engaged in a series of heated discussions with the ex-footballer over the past couple of days - put their feud behind him as he hugged the star and thanked him for cooking.  Talking in the BT, Ex On The Beach narrator Andrew, 44, shared: 'He’s done a lot of Trials, the Trials take it out of him.'  Meanwhile, Ian's colleagues predicted he would struggle during his I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here appearance. The ex England star has had a number of arguments with comedian Andrew this week, prompting criticism from viewers and 32 complaints to TV watchdog Ofcom over 'perceived bullying' during Wednesday's episode of the ITV show. A number of Ian's footballer pals revealed their worries about Ian and his 'short fuse' before he entered the jungle, with the 2018 winner of I'm A Celeb, Harry Redknapp predicting he would 'blow.'  Ian's colleague Harry spoke about his friend's jungle stint at MailOnline and SportsMail's A Pint With Piers event, which took place three days after the 2019 series kicked off. Speaking to Piers Morgan, Harry, who won the 2018 series of the ITV show, said: 'I'd like Wrighty [Ian Wright] to win it - I think he's gonna blow though. I know him better than anyone and he's got a short fuse. He'll get hangry!'  Former England player turned pundit Chris Kamara told Good Morning Britain earlier this month, before Ian entered the jungle, that he was 'worried' about Ian taking part in the show. 'Harry was brilliant last year, wasn't he? Wrighty will be as much fun, you know what he's like. He's as good as gold.' Chris said, before adding: 'It's the boredom thing with Wrighty that I worry about.' Another of Ian's pals Mark Bright revealed on Good Morning Britain during a conversation with Ian's now campmate Kate Garraway that Ian has a long list of phobias, spilling: 'He's scared of the dark, he's scared of everything! He puts the light on.'  There is plenty of support for Ian from the football world though, as former midfielder Steve McManaman backed him to become a fans' favourite. Speaking last week, Steve pointed out 'I think everybody knows Wrighty.' 'He's a great character; he's laughing all the time, he's joking all the time, so he's got a wonderful chance of winning it,' he added to HorseRacing.net.  'The people at home who do all the voting will probably love him, but you just don't know how people react. 'They have to do the trials, they have to do things they don't like, but for comedic value I think he's going to be absolutely brilliant. 'He's going to be the person that keeps everybody laughing, keeping spirits high and jovial. You just hope they all get through it when they've got no food to eat.'   
