sport gaa
{ By Harry Howard For Mailonline   Published:  20:07, 1 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7744139/Comedian-John-Bishop-wants-Grand-National-banned-used-race-horse.html }
The Grand National should be banned, according to comedian and former racehorse owner John Bishop.  The animal lover said he is not against the sport, but has changed his perspective on the historic event because of the number of horses that have died during the race.  Bishop, 53, wants the race banned even though he once part-owned a horse called Know My Name, which did 'quite well' but was retired when it got hay fever. The Liverpudlian told Star On Sunday that an average of three deaths a year at the Grand National has changed his perspective on a race which he has 'fond memories' of.   He said: 'I have fond memories of the Grand National, but in recent years, as I have become more committed to animal welfare, I have grown increasingly uncomfortable about an event that every year results in the deaths of horses. 'Some people will argue that the horses are bred for the event and have incredible lives, and that as the Grand National is such a prestigious event, the risk is worth the reward - I will accept this argument the day someone shows me a horse entering itself into the race. However, the star insisted that he is not 'entirely against' horse racing.  Speaking of his former steed, Bishop added that it had to retire when it got hay fever. 'I am glad to say that the horse is now enjoying its retirement, no doubt receiving antihistamine,' he joked. The news comes after the star, who has been married to wife Melanie since 1993, surprised fans last year by going undercover at HMV's flagship London store ahead of the release of his new DVD.  A make-up artist prepared Bishop for his secret assignment, fitting him with a tufty beard, long hair and large glasses in an effort to bamboozle fans.  In the video, John Bishop is seen carrying around heaps of his DVD, putting them on display around store and asking customers if they would like to buy one with their purchase. Confused shoppers shook their heads as the DVD was offered to them as one said it looked like Jim Carrey, not John Bishop.  Another shopper was even offered it for free but still declined saying she 'wouldn't watch it'.  Finally, a couple noticed John through his disguise and gladly accepted the DVD and asked if he would sign it too.   The stunt was filmed on several hidden cameras.  Bishop said: 'The reaction to the show at the end of every night was fantastic, touring "Winging It" across the UK was absolutely brilliant and the demand for more shows blew me away.  'I’m thrilled that I’m able to release this show for all to see.' The DVD was filmed during a show at the London Palladium.     
