{ By Tita Smith and Jackson Barron and Australian Associated Press   Published:  05:48, 1 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7742959/Channel-Nine-panellists-clash-debate-Margaret-Courts-gay-marriage-views.html }
Channel Nine panellists got into a heated argument on air while discussing Margaret Court's controversial same-sex marriage views.  Tennis icon Todd Woodbridge, former Wallaby Peter FitzSimons and journalist Georgina Robinson were on Nine's Sport Sunday to discuss the decision to honour the 50-year anniversary of Court's 1970 Grand Slam where she won all four majors.  Tennis Australia invited Court to the upcoming Australian Open to recognise her achievement, but took a stance against her controversial gay marriage views. The devout Christian, 77, has caused controversy for saying she doesn't believe gay people should be allowed to marry because the Bible does not condone it. FitzSimons slammed Court's views as being 'out of kilter' and 'homophobic gibberish,' and asked Woodbridge why he hadn't tried to talk to her about her perspective. Fellow Herald journalist Robinson said 'that would be hugely arrogant,' to have FitzSimons proclaiming his agenda over Court's religious views.  'I have religious friends and I talk to my religious friends and say, "This is nonsense, you must know this is nonsense",' FitzSimons said. 'If you come at it with, "You're wrong," I think you probably don't get very far,' Robinson replied. The pair continued to bicker over FitzSimons' apparent lack of empathy towards Court's religious standpoint.  'When you say I can't say to religious people, "You're wrong," religious people proselytise to me all the time, trying to make me believe,' Fitzsimons said. 'My position is not that you can't say, "You're wrong," my position is that you won't get very far talking to people and understanding them by that being your opening salvo — "You're wrong, please shut up",' Robinson shot back.  Tennis Australia released a statement on Saturday that featured praise for Court's milestone achievement, as well as a swipe at her personal views.  'Tennis Australia respects Margaret's unmatched tennis career and welcomes her to the Australian Open, particularly in this milestone anniversary year,' TA said in a statement on Saturday. 'As often stated, Tennis Australia does not agree with Margaret's personal views, which have demeaned and hurt many in our community over a number of years.  'They do not align with our values of equality, diversity and inclusion. 'Our sport welcomes everyone, no matter what gender, ability, race, religion or sexuality, and we will continue to actively promote inclusion initiatives widely at all levels of the sport.' Court's family released a statement following Tennis Australia's announcement. 'It is hard for her family to understand how her current lifestyle would possibly affect her Tennis Career in any way,' the statement reads. 'It is disappointing to see Tennis Australia in the Open Letter amalgamating her sporting career which she won for her Nation. 'We hope in this great Nation of ours that generations to come will continue to have freedom of speech to stand for what they believe in.' Tennis Australia had set a precedent for the invitation earlier this year when Rod Laver was welcomed as a guest for the 50th anniversary of his 1969 grand slam.   In June, TA's production team spent a day with Court at her home in Perth, filming for a mini documentary to be released during the tournament. Court said she was delighted and could not wait to attend the event. 'I'm looking forward to celebrating the 50th anniversary of winning the grand slam with my family and friends at the Australian Open,' Court said. 'This is an incredible milestone for me, and I can't quite believe how quickly the time has gone. 'It's always wonderful to catch up with my fellow legends and I'm grateful to Tennis Australia. 'Tennis is a wonderful sport and I'm proud to be part of the history of our great game.'     
