sport gaa
{ By Dan Ripley for MailOnline    Published:  15:52, 30 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/formulaone/article-7741695/Fernando-Alonso-open-Formula-One-return-2021.html }
Fernando Alonso has admitted he is keeping his options open for a potential return to Formula One in 2021. The two-time world champion departed the grid at the end of the 2018 season, opting to continue his career away from the sport. In his year off he has won the prestigious Le Mans 24 hour race for the second time for Toyota and will be competing in the Dakar rally to kick off his 2020. A commitment to become just the second driver after Graham Hill to complete motorsport's triple crown by winning Le Mans, the Monaco Grand Prix and the Indy 500 means he has also targeted a return to Indianapolis next summer. It will be his third attempt at winning at the brickyard having retired in 2017 and a failure to qualify this year. But with a raft of new rules coming in for F1 in 2021, the Spaniard believes it could be the right time to make a return.  'I'm doing Dakar in January which is a big challenge and next year hopefully Indy is in the plan again,' he told Sky Sports during qualifying for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. 'I'll try and do a little bit better than this year! 'We will keep it open in the future, maybe Formula One in 2021, maybe hyper car in the WEC [World Endurance Championship.] 'I think in 2021 that is the reason why I keep open the possibilities. Maybe things mix up with the new rules so let's see if an opportunity comes.' After gambling on leaving Ferrari for McLaren in 2015 to try and challenge for the championship, Alonso was left frustrated with an uncompetitive package which failed to even land him a podium in four seasons. However he states he has no regrets over leaving the team after they claimed their first top three finish at the Brazilian Grand Prix with his replacement Carlos Sainz last time out, insisting his life has been much more enjoyable away from F1.  'No, no really. We all hoped last year things could change this year,' he added. 'McLaren will always be a top team and I think sooner or later these big results will come. Lucky enough it came this year. It was a strange race and not on pure pace but hopefully next year is a step in the right direction.   'I've been quite busy and racing a lot, I didn't miss it much. It's a different kind of life. F1 is very demanding. You live F1 from breakfast to dinner and night time. Away from F1 you are a little bit more relaxed and enjoy life.' 
