{ By Phoebe Eckersley For Mailonline   Published:  14:26, 30 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7741287/Schoolboy-freestyle-scooter-shows-stunts-world-champion-12.html }
A 12-year-old boy has been filmed performing impressive somersaults on his freestyle scooter after being made a junior world champion in a competition in Spain. James Gellatly, of Corby, Northamptonshire, was given the title of junior champion for the extreme sport earlier at Palau Sant Jordi, Barcelona, in July.  And while scooters will be on many youngster's letters to Santa this Christmas, few could dream of being able to pull of stunts like him. He even boasts a 63,000 following on Instagram and some of his posts rack up nearly 25,000 likes. In the clip, James launches down a steep ramp on his scooter before performing an impressive leap in the air at the other end.  He hovers with his scooter mid-air and twists around before dramatically landing back on to the track without any hesitation. James somersaults whiel clutching the scooter's handlebars at his local skate park Adrenaline Alley in Corby, Northamptonshire.   Moments later, footage shows him pushing his scooter towards railings and riding across them. The adrenaline junkie then flips on a ramp and lands perfectly on to the track and keeps repeating the sequence.  The champion skater told the BBC how he 'doesn't see [himself] as a celebrity'. 'But my class mates think it's cool because it's almost like I've got a job at such a young age.'  He admitted how 'nerve-wracking' the sport can be as participants never know if they will fall off. Appearing wiser than his years, James revealed how he sticks to what he can do and mastering those skills to feel confident throughout his ride. He won the first ever WRG Junior World Cup in Barcelona in July.  Some viewers were impressed on Instagram and said: 'I always thought u were crazy... not this crazy.' Rob Januszewski wrote: 'Yes James keep on killing it.' Another added: 'Congrats, it's amazing what you can do with a scooter.' Riley Widdow admitted that James inspires him to scoot.          
