sport gaa
{ By Roger Alton For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:05, 28 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7736751/How-Ben-stoked-fire.html }
SPORTS BOOKS OF THE YEAR As it's been a pretty vintage year for British sport — give or take the odd Rugby World Cup final — there's appropriately a rich selection of sports books to savour. MY LIFE AND RUGBY by Eddie Jones (Macmillan £20, 448 pp) Jones, the bruising, funny, controversial England rugby coach, is, along with Pep Guardiola, probably the most feted and successful coach in world sport. Neither are men to be taken lightly. Jones describes meeting Pep when he went over to Munich to watch the Spaniard taking his Bayern side for a training session: 'With purpose, intensity and clarity they had achieved more in half an hour than most teams would in a traditional two-hour training stint.' That's what they call the hard yards, I guess. It's no surprise that Jones took England from World Cup humiliation in 2015 to the brink of glory in Japan this year. Eternally thoughtful about his craft and his sport, there is a fascinating final chapter — and pretty impressive piece of speedy publication — about the World Cup and Jones admits he got the selection for the final wrong. But there's much more than rugby here. Jones is very moving on his Japanese heritage. His mother was interned in the U.S. after Pearl Harbour, and he coached Japan to that memorable victory over the Springboks in Brighton in 2015. If you can read his description of that game without welling up, you should check your pulse. But it's a tough old game, rugby, and Jones is brutally frank about himself and the people and players in his life. His gifts of leadership and organisation are clearly remarkable: this is a man you would follow into the jungle. Or anywhere . . . THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY by Alastair Cook (Michael Joseph, £20, 384 pp) He is England's greatest ever batsman, blessed with improbable good looks and impeccable manners. For most cricket fans of a certain age, he's the sort of man you'd want to marry your daughter. But behind that choirboy exterior Cook is as tough as tugboats, a man who has spent his life doing one of the hardest, scariest jobs in all sport — opening the batting in Test cricket. This hugely enjoyable book gives you an idea of quite how challenging it is, and makes you see that finding a replacement for 'The Chef' at the top of England's batting order won't be any picnic. This book, written with the help of Michael Calvin, gives Cook a chance to hit back at some of the people who have let him down — notably the suits who made him take the flak in the saga over Kevin Pietersen's sacking. And he's a steely character, Cook, who won't take rubbish from anyone. What a top bloke he is: happily married to the long-suffering Alice down on their farm in Essex, Cook admits he is close to the land, tells us more about lambing than anyone needs to know, and happily relishes the fact he is not defined by cricket. For lovers of statistics — and what cricket fan isn't — there is a 50-page appendix of Cook's career in numbers, which should give even the most picky of great-uncles plenty to pore over after Christmas lunch. ON FIRE by Ben Stokes (Headline £20, 320 pp) He might be having a sticky time in New Zealand at the moment, but for a period this summer Ben Stokes was the most important man in the country. A national hero in every sense. This book, written with the Mail's Richard Gibson, vividly recalls 'England's Summer to Remember', as the subtitle has it. First the World Cup, and then the Ashes, the story is told in a series of match reports. What more could you want? Not much it turns out. We don't learn too much about Stokes's inner life — that he enjoys relaxing on his sit-on mower in the garden at home in Co Durham is about as personal as it gets — but he doesn't seem a man prone to much introspection. He is a mesmerising entertainer as we know only too well, those of us lucky enough to see that dazzling Sunday at Lords when England won the World Cup by the narrowest of margins, or watched him pulverise the Australian attack on a sunbaked Sunday at Headingley to win the Third Test and keep the Ashes alive. For anybody who wants to relive those golden days, here's the ideal companion. BERKMANN'S CRICKETING MISCELLANY by Marcus Berkmann (Little, Brown £14.99, 336 pp) Like your best-ever cricket tea, this wonderful book is jam-packed with treats and goodies, trivia, quotes, cartoons and fabulous fun-filled facts about the summer game. The perfect companion to help while away these winter nights. Find out what influence cricket had on the Dambusters raid for example. Or who was the only man who had the nerve to correct Don Bradman on his batting technique (it was Field Marshal Montgomery, wouldn't you know). Or what Hitler thought of cricket pads ('unmanly and un-German'). Or how Sir Arthur Conan Doyle captured the wicket of W.G. Grace at Lord's. The whole thing is magical. ROUGH MAGIC by Lara Prior-Palmer (Ebury Press £16.99, 320 pp) If the name sounds familiar, it should be. Lara's aunt is the highly garlanded, multiple championship-winning horsewoman Lucinda Prior-Palmer. Now her niece has made her own mark by winning what's billed as the 'world's toughest horse race', the 1,000km Mongol Derby across the vast plains once familiar to Genghis Khan and his chums. The route is said to be the same as Genghis's messaging service: he guaranteed next-day delivery, so things have gone a bit downhill since. Mark you, I doubt any of the Mongol ruler's postmen relished the prospect of letting him down. Lara was also the youngest ever winner of the race at 19, beating Devan the dislikeable Texan at the last, and this charming book is a vivid account of her adventures. There's lots of earthy chat about the more intimate perils of outdoor living, as well as her love of horses in all their awkward cussedness. But keep it out of the hands of your horse-mad teenage daughter. After all, you never know what that might lead to. THE GREAT ROMANTIC by Duncan Hamilton (Hodder £20, 400 pp) A monumental contribution to a great year for cricket books. Neville Cardus's mother was a prostitute and he was barely educated, but he rose to become the most celebrated and revered cricket writer in the world. It is distant from our age — Cardus wrote before and after World War II, primarily for the Manchester Guardian, and space was never a problem — but the beauty and sinuous complexity of the game never changes. I would have loved to read Cardus this year on England's epic cricket summer, for example. He saw that cricket was more than just a scorecard: it was a metaphor for life with all its beauty and its ever-changing fortunes, its courage and its cowardice, its sportsmanship, its friendships and enmities. All your favourites are here: Compton, Bradman, Hobbs and Hutton. Cardus finds the perfect partner in Duncan Hamilton, a prize-wining sports writer who is every bit the match for Cardus himself. A wonderful read. I, ROBOT by Peter Crouch (Penguin £20, 272 pp) The Mail's columnist — and much-travelled legend of English football — has become a national treasure, all gangling 6ft 7in of him. It's not hard to see why: he's frank and funny; he doesn't take himself too seriously and has a very beautiful wife in the model Abbey Clancy. He was a very good player too, when tall centre forwards meant something. This was when 'Hoof it up to Crouchy' was at the heart of England's football strategy. This is the follow-up to his much admired How To Be A Footballer. It is terrific stuff; full of good jokes and observations about his fellow professionals — 'As a young player you just go [on holiday] where the footballers two years older than you are going, which in my case was Tenerife and Ayia Napa . . . I wanted to go to neither, which mattered less than the fact that everyone else was going . . . ' — as well as about injuries, warming the bench as a substitute, tattoos, cars and much more. He's even got some canny thoughts on the All Blacks. You can dip into this book anywhere and will find delights: all football fans aged from nine to 90 will love it. 
