{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  14:20, 25 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7722641/Black-professor-reveals-refused-service-restaurant-white-group-seated.html }
A black university professor has claimed that she was refused service at a London restaurant, but a white couple who came in after her were seated. Marcia Wilson, a professor of health, sport and bioscience, at the University of East London went to Lebanese diner Yalla Yalla, near Oxford Circus, with her daughter on Saturday.  On Twitter, Ms Wilson claimed that she was turned away and told there were no tables available, despite a group of five people and a white couple who came in after her being seated immediately. She added that she heard the staff interacting with the white customers, and insisted they didn't have a booking.  And she added that when she complained to the manager, she was told that she was not allowed to question him and was asked to leave.   The restaurant has since said the incident was caused by an 'unfortunate miscommunication', and insisted that the other customers did have bookings.   Taking to Twitter to share her turmoil, she wrote: 'My daughter and I have just been turned away from this restaurant off Oxford St.  'No available tables despite five people coming in behind us, then a couple (all white) were seated immediately.  'I spoke to the manager who told me that I’m not allowed to question him and I must leave.' Her tweet caused an outcry on the social media platform, with many saying they were going to boycott the restaurant.  Marcia later added that the owner of the Lebanese restaurant, Tony Kitous, contacted her to apologise and make sure his staff were trained to avoid similar situations happening again. 'I met with @tonykitous who listened. He was distressed and remorseful. He has assured me that his staff will be trained so this never happens again. 'THANK YOU Twitter friends for your support! I now want to draw a line under it and hope all the additional negativity will stop.'  But the restaurant still saw an onslaught on attacks on Twitter, Instagram and TripAdvisor.  One supporter said: 'Wow, appalling. It's round the corner from my office and pop in every now and then. No more. So sorry that happened to you both. 'Wtf? So awful to happen to both of you. You might want to consider a complaint in writing to them and then to the council or retail ombudsman' another added. 'That's awful and completely unacceptable' a third wrote.  'Absolutely appalling, I'm sorry you and your daughter had to experience such in 2019' a fourth person said.   Others also took to TripAdvisor to pen negative reviews of the eatery. Posting an anonymous review, one user wrote: 'A professor and her daughter were turned away from this restaurant off Oxford St. They were told there are no available tables despite 5 people coming in behind us, then a couple (all white) were seated immediately. She spoke to the manager who told her she is not allowed to question him and she must leave. She could see empty tables in the restaurant and the manager was quite aggressive when she asked him why there are tables for others but not us (not that she would have eaten there after that). The professor heard the interaction with the group behind her, before somebody says they may have a booking they did not pre-book! Femail had contacted Professor Wilson and Yalla Yalla for comment.  Chaker Hanna, the CEO of Yalla Yalla, told Femail a 'full investigation' was ongoing with regard to the Professor's accusations. 'We met with the Professor for two hours on Sunday. It was a very unfortunate incident and we have a zero tolerance to any discrimination, for employees and customers and we've never had an issue before' he said.  'Saturday is the busiest day of the week, of course most of the restaurant is booked and we only seat walk-ins if there's big gaps between tables.     'The [white] group that came in after her had a booking - which the professor wouldn't have know. 'I fully understood how she must have felt. When we did the investigation we looked carefully at all our bookings and the restaurant was fully booked. 'Unfortunately the communication wasn't clear and precise, and she felt it was discrimination, which is wasn't at all.   'It was an unfortunate miscommunication - and we profusely apologise for this.  'Discrimination against everything we believe in - for our customers and our staff. Eighty per cent of our staff are from a minority background and we completely encourage diversity.'  Professor Wilson told Femail: 'I can confirm that I have met with the owner of Yalla Yalla who has apologised and I am satisfied that he is taking appropriate action to avoid a similar situation occurring again in the future'. 
