{ By Ben Nagle for MailOnline    Published:  11:52, 24 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/formulaone/article-7712015/SPECIAL-REPORT-Ayrton-Senna-adored-Brazil-25-years-death.html }
As you leave the airport in Sao Paulo, the name of this city's hero is abundantly clear. The car meanders along Rodovia Ayrton Senna, before taking a turn into a tunnel bearing the same name. His face adorns buildings, bus stops and billboards, a full 25 years after his death. Ayrton Senna was no ordinary driver, and no ordinary man. A three-time Formula One world champion, his is a story that ends in tragedy, a life that was halted early at the Tamburello curve of Imola on May 1, 1994. But his legacy didn't end there – in fact, his real race was only just beginning. A few months after his death at the age of 34, the Ayrton Senna Institute was born. Created by his sister Viviane, its goal is to help Brazil's poor through education. It was Ayrton's life goal. As they celebrate their own 25th anniversary this week, 26 million Brazilian children and teenagers have gone through their projects across the country. Sportsmail travelled to Sao Paulo with Heineken to discover more about Senna's importance in his home city. On the weekend of the Brazilian Grand Prix at Interlagos, we spoke exclusively to his nephew Bruno, as well as Ayrton's first great rival Martin Brundle, went for dinner with another three-time world champion in Sir Jackie Stewart and visited the Institute itself to see just how legendary Formula One's greatest ever driver has become in the two-and-a-half decades since his death. It seems right to start at the end. May 1, 1994, at the San Marino Grand Prix. The other accidents of that weekend are stories less well told, but they too paint a picture of Senna's humility and compassion. Rubens Barrichello, a fellow Brazilian, was the first driver of the weekend to crash in Friday practice. Professor Sid Watkins saved his life, and Barrichello recalls how he woke up to find Senna looking over him. A day later, Roland Ratzenberger wasn't so lucky and he died during qualifying after striking a concrete wall at 314kmph. In the footage of the aftermath of the crash, again Senna is there… the first driver on the scene. He wasn't on the track at the time, instead commandeering a course car from the pit lane to get to the Villeneuve curve. It was the way he was hard-wired – he felt he had to get to the scene, be it to help, learn or grieve. Brundle, now Sky Sports' legendary pundit and commentator, was also driving at Imola, himself in the middle of his own Formula One career. As he recalls his memories of the tragic race weekend to Sportsmail, sitting trackside at Interlagos, the emotion in his eyes and his voice is abundantly clear. 'I remember everything about it,' he says, slowly. 'Even from the day before, when we lost Roland Ratzenberger. I saw Ayrton in the hotel and he was very emotional. We used to have the drivers' briefings on the Sunday morning, and I don't think Ayrton was very keen on racing. 'I went past the crash, bits flying everywhere… I didn't know which Williams it was. I got back to the start-line and the red flag, and I was initially told it was Damon [Hill] in the wall. Then I was told that it was Ayrton but that he was okay because he'd moved his head… we now know that it was one last movement of his head, presumably as his soul left his body. 'I'm still angry about that day, because we re-raced. We started the race again, and drove past a pool of his blood for 53 laps. In Italy, you never "die at the race track". You always die on the way to, or at, the hospital… the show must go on. 'He was incredibly unlucky… many of us have had worse crashes than that and walked away, even he probably has. But I believe in fate: when your number's up, your number's up.' There were just 37 minutes between Senna's crash and the race re-starting. Thirty-seven minutes until the cars lined back up on the start-line, to go again. Schumacher, Larini, Hakkinen was the podium at the end of the day, but – rightly – nobody remembers that. It shouldn't have happened. 'The thing I remember most straight after the race was the silence… the eerie silence,' Brundle continues. 'Tens of thousands of people were making their way out of the circuit, people were crying. Keke Rosberg told me he had died, and then I went and saw Ron Dennis, and he was devastated. They were very close. 'The silence post-race was absolutely deafening. Then, I didn't come to the funeral, which I hugely regret now. I'd been to my team-mate's funeral back in 1985 at Tyrrell [Stefan Bellof], and saw the absolute destruction of his family and his girlfriend. I made the decision there and then that I couldn't go to another racing driver's funeral while I was still an active professional myself. 'I just didn't want to witness that again, because you start thinking about your own family and friends… but I so regret not going to that now, in hindsight. There was this outpouring of emotion. The great irony is that the awareness of Formula One grew massively after that, because of the global news that it made. People knew that he'd transcended the sport, he was beyond a racing driver… and then he was gone.' Twenty-five years on, we drove the streets of Sao Paulo that his coffin – draped in a Brazilian flag – travelled down on May 4, 1994. An estimated three million people lined the highway, at least 20 deep on all sides of the six-lane road. 20,000 people queued overnight to file past his coffin ahead of the burial the following day, and there was a public mourning the likes of which had never been seen before. At a private dinner with Sir Jackie Stewart in Sao Paulo, he speaks of his emotion at being a pall-bearer, of 'carrying Ayrton to his final resting place'. It was a moment that those present in 1994 will never forget. Even now, it is easy to understand how important Senna was to Brazil at that time. This is a country with huge divisions between the wealthy and poor. Alongside gated communities with private pools in each home, there are favelas riddled with poverty, where residents fight for every meal. To have a hero like Senna gave them hope. He lifted his head above the parapet and turned himself into a champion. And he cared about them, too. The money he was earning was astronomical in those final years, but plenty of it was handed out to the poor of Sao Paulo. Speaking to Sportsmail at Interlagos, Bruno Senna - who grew up on his uncle Ayrton's farm, racing against him - explains: 'Ayrton used to make charitable donations anonymously to help people, because he realised that he was one of the people lucky enough to have education, food on his plate, that he was able to become what he became. 'He was not completely satisfied with this, because he didn't know what was being done with the money. You can give the money with the best of intentions, but not necessarily the money is doing the right thing. 'He spoke to my mother a few months before he died, and he said he wanted to help kids. Unfortunately he passed away shortly after, and my mum took the initiative to create the foundation: the Ayrton Senna Institute.' It is, truthfully, his biggest legacy by a distance. Brazil is a huge country, fifth largest in terms of surface area, and sixth by population. It has the eighth largest GDP in terms of wealth… but on the Human Development Index it stands 79th. At the end of their school education, only three in 10 Brazilian children can read or write to the expected standard. Only one in 10 has the required maths level. An alarming example of the wealth inequality comes in Rio de Janeiro. In the expensive neighbourhood of Gavea, life expectancy is 78 years, the average monthly income just shy of 3,000 Brazilian Real (£557). A stone's throw away, beyond the border into Rocinha, you can shave nine years off your life expectancy with the click of a finger. 220 Brazilian Real (£41) is the average wage, and 12 per cent of the residents are illiterate. This is the Brazil Senna wanted to change, this is the Brazil he donated money to, and this is the Brazil his Institute is helping 25 years on. His sister Viviane, the founder of the charity, explains: 'Ayrton is considered one of the greatest drivers of all-time, be it for his incredible talent, be it for his impressive determination, be it for the show he used to give on the racing track. It was almost magic. But all this does not define the man Ayrton Senna. 'Besides his passion for speed, for the racing tracks and for the cars, he had another passion… a passion for Brazil. We could see all this when he chose the colours of his helmet, for example. It always had green and yellow. When he won a race, he would always raise the Brazilian flag. 'And from this passion, came also the non-conformism with the Brazilian reality. And from this non-conformism came the desire to do something to change this reality. This is a side of Ayrton which was not known to everyone. 'This is where the dream to do something was born. To give something that he had, but that the huge majority of the Brazilian children and youngsters do not have: opportunity. The opportunity to have education and thereby, a future. And hope.' Now, the Ayrton Senna Institute is present in 15 Brazilian states and in more than 450 municipalities around the country. Each year, they train 60,000 professionals and have 1.5million students come through their programmes. It is incredible to see first-hand. Through his legacy, the family are changing the face of Sao Paulo, and Brazil as a whole. One hundred per cent of Senna's royalties are pumped into the charity. His mother Neida, now in her 90s, is still an integral part of the team, regularly seen at the Institute. Their drive is as unwavering as Ayrton's was on the track. The weekend of the Brazilian Grand Prix is nothing less than a celebration of his life… his career and legacy on and off the track. With the 2019 Championship tied up, there is a gap in the market for a storyline, and Senna takes centre stage. Heineken are the lead sponsors of the race, and their #ObrigadoSenna – thank you, Senna – campaign is everywhere. Their hashtag adorns every corner of the track, and every post online sees five Brazilian Real (£1) donated to the Ayrton Senna Institute. Lewis Hamilton arrived with a Brazilian flag on his helmet, 'Para Senna, Para Brazil' the words alongside the photo he posted online. Sebastian Vettel wore a Senna wristband, and was present throughout the weekend at moments to celebrate his life. He even visited the Institute days before the race. The most special moment, by a long way, came before the modern cars took to the track at Interlagos, when Bruno Senna got behind the wheel of the McLaren Honda MP4/4 for a lap around the circuit. The car is widely regarded as the most dominant ever in Formula One. In the 1988 season, Senna and team-mate Alain Prost won 15 of the 16 races between them, only failing to make it a full house after Senna crashed out with two laps to go while leading at Monza. To F1 fans, that was the pinnacle. His exact car was back in Brazil, and at a track where it had never raced before -given that Senna's home Grand Prix at the time took place in Rio de Janeiro. We were there on the Thursday when Bruno tested the car, and again on Sunday when a few laps of the track sent the crowd into a frenzy. The incredible noise of the crowd chanting 'ole ole ole ola, Senna, Senna' was only punctuated by the deafening sound of the car as it whizzed by in a blur. Brazil flags were raised high in the grandstands, before Bruno himself pulled up to grab one from an onlooking steward. As he drove down the home straight, flag aloft like Ayrton so often did after winning a race, it was hard not to feel emotional at the memory of the world's greatest driver, taken far too soon. The numbers of Senna's career are obviously mightily impressive – 65 pole positions, 41 race wins, three world championship titles – but in truth, it is the numbers of his posthumous impact on Brazil which resonate further. He is changing the landscape of a country through words he uttered so famously a year before his death, in 1993. 'If we want to change something, we need to start with the children.' He started it, with his donations both anonymous and otherwise, but his family has continued it. Brazil is still a country with huge problems, but one child at a time, the institute in Ayrton's name is changing that. Truly, Obrigado Senna. As a Global Partner of Formula 1, Heineken's #ObrigadoSenna campaign was a celebration of the life, career and legacy of Brazilian racing legend Ayrton Senna. Every time the hashtag #ObrigadoSenna is posted on social media, R$5,00 is donated to the Senna Institute, which contributes to the development of public education in Brazil. For more information, search #ObrigadoSenna 
