sport gaa
{ By Emily Crane For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:16, 20 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7708199/Renowned-equestrian-George-Morris-banned-sport-abuse-claims.html }
George Morris, a renowned equestrian and former Olympian, has received a lifetime ban from the sport over sexual abuse allegations from 50 years ago.  The 81-year-old was banned by the United States Equestrian Federation back in August stemming from alleged incident involving minors that occurred between 1968 and 1972. His expulsion was made permanent on Tuesday by the United States Center for SafeSport - the organization that investigates misconduct for Olympic sports - after Morris appealed the initial ban, the New York Times reports.  Morris, who won the Olympic silver medal in 1960 and went on to coach the U.S. and Brazilian Olympic teams, vehemently denied the allegations.  Two people had come forward accusing Morris of victimizing them when they were minors being coached by him.   The accusations resulted in a months-long investigation by SafeSport.   SafeSport CEO Ju'Riese Colón said the findings of that investigation warranted the lifetime ban.  The decision came after several days of proceedings in New York during which the alleged victims and Morris made their cases to an arbitrator.  Morris can not appeal the ban again under SafeSport rules.   The organization keeps the findings secret to protect the victims.    A number of equestrians and those involved in the support defended Morris after the allegations surfaced.  'The victims in these matters not only suffered the abuse they first report, they often bravely survive countless attacks, even in their sport, for having the courage to speak up,' Colón said.  'Such a response is wrong on many levels, including the fact that it re-victimizes those who already suffered more than anyone should.'  When the initial ban was handed down in August, Morris issued a statement denying the allegations.  'I am deeply troubled by the U.S. Center for SafeSport's findings regarding unsubstantiated charges for events that allegedly occurred between 1968 and 1972,' he said.  'I contest these findings wholeheartedly and am in the process of disputing them. 'Any allegations that suggest I have acted in ways that are harmful to any individual, the broader equestrian community and sport that I love dearly are false and hurtful.' The U.S. Equestrian Federation updated its bylaws this year to officially bring trainers, who often operate as independent contractors, under the umbrella of its safe-sport policy.  Morris is the third member of the equestrian community to receive a permanent ban for sexual misconduct involving a minor this year.  Former champion equestrian Robert Gage committed suicide in June after being suspended by SafeSport for alleged sexual misconduct involving several minors. Gage had been trained by Jimmy A. Williams, a top show-jumping trainer who was posthumously accused of sexually abusing several children over a 50-year span. Williams died in 1993. 
