{ By Nik Simon for MailOnline   Published:  09:32, 17 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7583041/Rugby-World-Cup-Steve-Hansen-hoping-secure-famous-double-horse-Blacks.html }
Steve Hansen is hoping to secure a famous double on Saturday - with his horse set to race in the prestigious Everest shortly before the All Blacks' quarter-final against Ireland. The New Zealand coach owns a share of Nature Strip, who will run in the $14million sprint race at Randwick in Sydney. Those matters will be left in the hands of trainer Chris Waller, while Hansen is focused on the All Blacks' quest for a third straight World Cup title. 'I guess you could say my second horse will be the All Blacks on Saturday, although I'm not too sure the boys will like being called horses,' quipped Hansen.  'Obviously it is a highlight to have a horse in a race like the Everest. There's not a lot I can do. I can't ride him or carry him. 'It's just a matter of sit back and enjoy that for what it is. But you can have an influence during the week with this team and we have tried to do that and provide an environment where we get to Saturday with them excited, full of energy and ready to rumble.' Hansen's side have been boosted by the return to fitness of influential lock Brodie Retallick, who has started just one game in almost three months. But the Kiwis will also be playing in the knowledge that, for many of them - including Hansen - a defeat would spell the end of their All Blacks career. 'It'll affect me when it's finished,' said Hansen. 'You haven't got any room to get gaa gaa emotional. You're here to do a job.  'The team is bigger than the individual and the it always has been.. The jersey and legacy of the jersey demands you to be there giving 100 per cent of what you have. So you don't have time to think about yourself. When the tournament is over, whenever that is, that's when you step back and have a reflection and have a think about what's next and what life will be like.' The World Champions will be wary of Ireland, who have won two of the last three meetings. Joe Schmidt has had the better of Hansen in recent meetings, temporarily taking over as the world's No 1 ranked side. 'You can always look back but you have to be a wee bit careful that what's happening today hasn't changed,' said Hansen. 'You check in the rear vision mirror and ask OK have there been any changes and then make your own tweaks if they have. 'I caught up with Andy Farrell yesterday and had a yarn with him. One of us will be going home. But that's just the cold hard facts about the World Cup.' 
