sport gaa
{ By Jabeen Waheed For Mailonline   Published:  11:46, 20 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7705965/Lizzie-Cundy-51-looks-glamorous-blue-satin-dress-Short-Lives-Winter-Ball-London.html }
She's endured a very public breakup from boyfriend Jeremy Gordeno in recent weeks.  And Lizzie Cundy didn't sport any hint of heartbreak as she attended the Short Lives Winter Ball in London on Tuesday night.  The presenter, 51, showed off her sensational figure in a tight sleeveless blue satin dress as she posed alongside Jean-Christophe Novelli and Aldo Zilli. Lizzie worked her angles in the figure-flattering number which also boasted a soaring thigh-high split. She boosted her height in a pair of towering glittering peep-toe heels while posing away.  The socialite sported a glossy blowdry and enhanced her youthful features with a glamorous coat of make-up.   It's been a turbulent few weeks for Lizzie with her ex Danny Cipriani suing her book publishers as well as splitting from boyfriend Jeremy, 53. Jeremy had been spending an increasing amount of time with mother-of-one Francesca Hodge, who is 32 years his junior and the daughter of his former fiancée. Pictures emerged of Francesca sitting on the millionaire nightclub boss's lap in a bar, which have angered Francesca's mother, Candice Hodge. He reflected on the end of his 10-month relationship in a statement after he was dumped by Lizzie, saying that said events outside of his control put the relationship under huge strain. Elsewhere, Lizzie recently appeared on the Jeremy Vine Show to discuss the news that rugby player Danny, 31, is suing the publishers of her book, Tales From The Red Carpet, where she details their alleged sex life. Lizzie said: 'Well I was very nice [about him]. I thought I was very complimentary, I mean, I gave him a nine out of 10.' The men on the show said if Lizzie had said those words about them, they would be sending her bouquets of flowers, not trying to sue and she agreed. She said: 'It has been bit of a tough week, but I am here, and strong. I am OK. I'm smiling.' In Lizzie's book’s second chapter, The Romeo of Richmond, she rated her saucy romp with the rugby star as 'nine out of ten on the naughty scale' and also claimed that he gave her 'the greatest kiss of all time.' However, despite the praise, Danny's lawyers have stated that he did not give his consent for the material to be published and is now demanding up to £50,000 worth of damages from Lizzie's book publishers. In paperwork filed at the High Court in London, Danny's lawyer's Clintons have now filed for a gagging order against Lizzie's publishers, Soho Friday Media, stating that the book breaches his right to privacy and data protection rules. Detailing the romance from 2010, the brunette wrote in her book: 'I remember thinking I had never ever been kissed like that in my entire life, and in that first initial moment, I realised what I had been missing all those years.' In response to the legal action, Soho Friday Media offered the statement: 'Lizzie was extremely nice and complimentary about Danny and is surprised at his reaction as she only told the half of it. We are now dealing with it with our lawyers.' Lizzie has now told MailOnline: 'I was surprised to hear Danny wants to sue my publishers for saying he was good in bed. I was very complimentary and kind in my book about Danny. We had great chemistry.'   
