{ By Marcus Townsend For The Daily Mail   Published:  23:58, 19 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/racing/article-7704193/Major-racing-bodies-come-America-form-Thoroughbred-Safety-Coalition.html }
Major racing bodies have come together in America to form the Thoroughbred Safety Coalition as the sport faces intense scrutiny on equine welfare. Pressure has been heaped on the sport particularly in California following 37 horses dying or suffering fatal injuries at Santa Anita since its season opened on Boxing Day. These included the fatal injury to Mongolian Groom, who broke a hind leg during the closing stages of the Breeders' Cup Classic this month. Three horses have also lost their lives since at fellow California track Del Mar since it opened its season. The Stronach Group, which owns Santa Anita, is one of the organisations signed up to the Thoroughbred Safety Coalition which says its aim is to 'implement a series of significant safety, medication, operational and integrity guidelines across Thoroughbred racing to ensure the well-being of horses and jockeys and increase transparency and accountability'. These would include setting stricter guidelines for allowable medications, enacting standards for whip use and encouraging greater transparency and tracking of veterinarian exam records. Founder members of the Thoroughbred Safety Coalition also include Breeders' Cup Limited, Churchill Downs Inc., Keeneland Association Inc., the New York Racing Association Inc. (NYRA), Del Mar Thoroughbred Club. Drew Fleming, President and CEO of Breeders' Cup Limited, said: 'Thoroughbred racing is steeped in tradition and we want the sport to live on for generations to come. 'That is only possible with all of us working together to ensure that the safety and well-being of our athletes is our top priority.' Kevin Flanery, President of Churchill Downs Racetrack, added: 'We are passionate about these animals and this sport, and we are committed to working with our partners to ensure that together we are making sound and responsible decisions on behalf of our athletes, our fans and the racing community. 'Many of us have taken concrete action at our own tracks and are individually working with regulators and lawmakers in our states to enhance safety protocols. The Thoroughbred Safety Coalition will help drive these needed reforms across the nation.' Animal Rights groups and politicians have been lobbying for legislation to create an independent body to regulate welfare issues in US racing. This latest move appears an attempt to show the racing industry itself in the US is capable of enacting reforms that have been resisted by some within the sport, particularly regarding the use of medication which is out of step with the sport around the world   
