sport gaa
{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  23:08, 19 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7704031/Sadie-Frost-54-attends-adidas-event-visiting-son-Rafferty-Law-set.html }
She was last spotted visiting her son Rafferty Law on the set of his upcoming film Twist. And Sadie Frost, 54, was enjoying a night out on Tuesday, attending the 'adidas LDN presents the Future of Sport' event in central London. The star cut a casual figure in a black dress paired with a matching jacket and sheer tights. She jazzed up her look with a patterned scarf and a pair of leather boots as she posed up a storm at the event.  The star was joined by Jessica Ennis-Hill, who was the perfect poster girl for the brand in her sportswear look.  Also putting in appearances at the party was illusionist Dynamo.  Earlier this month, Sadie revealed she is a 'proud mum' to son Rafferty Law as she went to visit him on the set of his upcoming film Twist. The actress shared a snap of herself and Rafferty sitting side by side where the 23-year-old was the spitting image of his father, fellow actor Jude Law, 46. Alongside the photo, Sadie wrote: 'Such a proud mum moment .. come to visit @rafflaw on set of the film #Twist'. Rafferty had his arm around his mother in the snap where he donned a khaki green jacket over a white shirt and camo trousers. Sadie cut a casual figure in a black winter coat and baby pink tracksuit bottoms with black stripes. Jude and Sadie, who are also parents to daughter Iris, 19, and son Rudy, 17, divorced in October 2003, after marrying in 1997 and meeting on the set of 1994 film Shopping. Jude is also father to Sophia, ten, with model ex Samantha Burke and Ada, four, with musician Catherine Harding, and Sadie shares Finlay Munro, 29, with her ex Gary Kemp.  Rafferty plays Oliver Twist in the upcoming film, a modern retelling of the classic Charles Dickens tale which also stars Rita Ora, 28, as the Artful Dodger, known as Dodge in this version. The film also stars David Walliams, 48, who will play Losberne and Sir Michael Caine, 86, who takes on the iconic role of Fagin.  A source told MailOnline: 'Twist is a modern interpretation of Charles Dickens’ Oliver in which the title character has been reinvented as a streetwise artist living on the streets of modern-day London. 'Rafferty impressed with his screen presence and his edginess brings a whole new dimension to the role of Oliver. 'It’s an all-star cast with David in the mix after arriving at today's first rehearsal – not to mention Rita and Sir Michael Caine.' In the new film, Oliver and Dodger get caught up in a heist to steal a priceless painting for master thief, Fagin. On playing the villain, Sir Michael Caine said: 'Fagin is such an infamous character, it’s going to be great fun playing him. 'I’m really looking forward to working with Lena, Raff and the rest of the cast in London when we start shooting.' Game Of Thrones star Lena Headey plays Sikes, who's been described as 'Fagin's psychopathic business partner,' in the original film directed by Martin Owen. Rafferty added: 'I’m excited to play such a well-loved literary character. 'I’m looking forward to working with Martin Owen to bring to life his new take on the character in modern-day London.'  
