sport gaa
{ By Jack Bezants for MailOnline    Published:  13:10, 19 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7701861/Chelseas-transfer-ban-appeal-heard-CAS-Wednesday-overturned.html }
Chelsea's bid to overturn their transfer ban will see their appeal heard by the Court of Arbitration for Sport on Wednesday. While a verdict will not be reached on the day, the west London team hope they have a case convincing enough to overthrow the current sanctions and allow Frank Lampard to buy players in the January window. But how exactly did things get to this stage? Sportsmail reflects on the story so far, and considers how things may unfold from here.  HOW DID IT BEGIN? Chelsea's signing of Bertrand Traore was what sparked an investigation into their recruitment of younger players. The Brukina Faso attacker was officially signed in January 2014 but it emerged that he had already played for Chelsea's youth fold on multiple occasions. He hadn't been registered by the FA and FIFA believed they could have been misled over the dates of the signing.  AND WHAT DID FIFA FIND? Football's governing body ruled that Chelsea breached article 19, which is in place to protect the transfers of minors and article 18, which concerns third-party influence. Chelsea appealed to FIFA but were not successful. In October, FIFA published documents that said its appeals committee found 150 breaches of regulations and labelled them 'inexcusable'. FIFA has strict rules regarding Under 18s. They say transfers cannot happen unless  the player's parents move to the country in which the new club is located for non-footballing reasons, both clubs are in the European Union or European Economic Area and the player is aged between 16 and 18. Even then, the buying club must meet more criteria relating to education, training, living conditions and support. HOW DID THE TRANSFER BAN IMPACT CHELSEA? The sanction imposed lasts for two windows - the summer one that has recently passed and the upcoming one in January. It prompted some shrewd transfer dealings from the Chelsea hierarchy, inserting clauses into loan deals for Mateo Kovacic and Gonzalo Higuain that would allow them to turn the moves into permanent moves. They only signed permanent terms with Kovacic in the end. They also swooped to sign Christian Pulisic from Borussia Dortmund last January before loaning him back to the German club for the remainder of the 2018-19 season. Pulisic has scored five goals in 14 games so far in his first season in England. Chelsea are still allowed to sell players.  WHAT IS THE ON-FIELD IMPACT? Remarkably positive. The ban, coinciding with Frank Lampard replacing Sarri as Chelsea manager, has cleared the path for academy players to reach the first team, benefiting the likes of Mason Mount, Reece James, Tammy Abraham and Fikayo Tomori. They are currently third in the Premier League table, one point above defending champions Manchester City who they play next on Saturday. WHO WOULD THEIR JANUARY TARGETS BE? Lampard may have a delicate line to balance if he can pursue players in January; there is a refreshing camaraderie to this Chelsea side that he will need to protect. That said, a top-four finish and a run in the Champions League are both conceivable aims for the second half of the season and a couple of additions to bolster ranks and add a touch more experience would be no bad thing.   Genk's 21-year-old midfielder Sander Berge has been linked, while Lampard may need to reinforce his attacking options if Inter Milan act on interest held in Olivier Giroud. The Frenchman wants regular football and that could be on offer from the Serie A side. Lampard's only other strikers are Abraham and Michy Batshuayi.  
