{ By Alisha Buaya For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:13, 19 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7700379/Playing-Keeps-stars-Annie-Maynard-shares-thoughts-term-WAG-derogatory.html }
WAGs, or wives and girlfriends of sport stars, is a term that has courted plenty of attention over the years.  And Playing For Keeps star Annie Maynard has admitted it's a name that she and the cast of the Channel 10 drama have debated over.   Annie - who plays Maddy Cochrane, a lawyer and mother-of-two, who is married to Southern Jets veteran star Travis in the series - says the term's potential to be degrading depends of its use. 'It depends on how people are using it. So for my character, that is one part of who she is,' she told TV Tonight. Annie noted that Maddy has a life and successful career outside of her marriage with Travis.  'She has her own trajectory. So if you were to just describe her as a WAG, I think it could be derogatory. But it's also something that she can champion if it's in the right way,' she explained. 'I think that the public face of being a WAG is a bit of a job. So once you understand the machinations of that and how to present and how to perform that part of your identity, that's not always the hardest part.' Her co-star Madeline West, who plays Kath Rickards, previously told TV Tonight she did not consider the term an insult, but rather an acronym. 'If it's used to malign, put down or belittle any of the women who don't necessarily identify as WAGs, then yes it's a derogatory term,' she said.  'But if it's just used as a noun to describe a collective of women who happen to be engaged or in a relationship with or married to a professional sportsperson, I fail to see what's derogatory.'  Playing for Keeps follows the tangled private and public lives of a fictional Melbourne AFL team, the Southern Jets, and the players' wives. The main characters include Maddy Cochrane (Annie Maynard), Tahlia Woods (Olympia Valance), Kath Rickards (Madeleine) and Paige Dunkeley (Cecelia Peters).  
