sport gaa
{ By Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  15:03, 18 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7698087/How-Instagram-post-sparked-ONE-YEAR-ban-star-womens-cricketer.html }
A female cricket star has been handed a one-year ban after she posted a team line-up on Instagram one-hour before its official release.  Hobart Hurricanes wicketkeeper Emily Smith will sit out of the sport for three months after Cricket Australia imposed the ban, with nine months suspended, on Monday evening.  The sporting body confirmed Smith accepted the sanction for breaching Article 2.3.2 of the anti-corruption code. The 24-year-old posted the team list to her personal Instagram account on Saturday November 2, about one-hour before it was scheduled to be publicly shared.  The WBBL match against Sydney Thunder was later abandoned in Burnie, Tasmania, due to weather.   Article 2.3.2 of the code prohibits: 'Disclosing inside information to any person where the participant knew or might reasonably have known that such disclosure might lead to the information being used in relation to betting in relation to any match or event'.   Sean Carroll, Cricket Australia's Head of Integrity and Security, acknowledged the social media post was not shared with the intention to breach the Anti-Corruption Code. However, Australian cricketer's are well aware of the requirements within the code.  'CA's rigorous anti-corruption player education program means that players are well aware of their obligations under the Anti-Corruption Code and there is no excuse for breaches regardless of the reasons for information being disclosed,' Carroll said in a statement.     'Since the commencement of the WBBL, Cricket Australia has had in place a robust anti-corruption program.  'We have been working with Emily throughout the process and Emily now understands the mistake she made.'  Carroll said Cricket Australia hoped the instance served as a reminder that the code is critical to 'protecting the integrity of the game'.  Alistair Nicholson, Australian Cricketers' Association, said the Instagram post was a joke about Smith's place in the batting order, Sydney Morning Herald reported.    'This is a case of an attempt at humour gone wrong,' Nicholson said. 'In the context of a washed-out day people dropped their guard and there was a comedy of errors all around. However, the integrity of the game is important and Emily has accepted her sanction. She will learn from this as we hope will others.' Smith, who has played 43 WBBL matches, will miss the rest of the big bash competition and the upcoming Women's National Cricket League.  
