sport gaa
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  11:35, 18 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7697589/Cricketer-Perry-NSW-athlete-year.html }
Cricket superstar Ellyse Perry has ended a tough day on a good note by being crowned athlete of the year at the NSW Champions of Sport awards. The 29-year-old was a finalist for the past two years in the same category but lost out both times to dual Olympic medal-winning canoeist Jessica Fox. This time, Perry beat a star-studded field including Fox, rugby league's James Tedesco, swimmer Cate Campbell, tennis's Alex De Minaur, beach volleyball's Mariafe Artcho del Solar and high diver Rhiannon Iffland. Earlier on Monday, the Sydney Sixers announced their champion allrounder would miss up to three weeks with a shoulder injury. Even by her usual high standards, Perry has enjoyed a tremendous year. Perry became the first player in history, man or woman, on the international stage to score 1000 Twenty20 runs and claim 100 T20 wickets. She dominated Australia's successful Ashes Series in England with bat and ball across all three playing formats, winning four player of the match awards. Perry scored 378 runs at an average of 94.5 and claimed 7-22 in an ODI, the best figures by an Australian woman in that format. Domestically, Perry smashed the record for most runs in a WBBL season scoring 777 runs, while leading the Sydney Sixers to a fourth-successive final. She also starred for the NSW Breakers who won the Women's National League title. This season, Perry is the WBBL's second-highest run-scorer and the third most-economical bowler. In the latest women's ICC one-day and T20 rankings, she is the No.1 allrounder. In the ODI rankings, she is third in bowling and fourth in batting. Lauren Parker clinched back-to-back crowns for athlete of the year with a disability. Despite further major spinal surgery and other hospital admissions hampering her training and race preparations, Parker became the second Australian female to be crowned Paratriathlon world champion. She won two ITU Paratriathlon World Cup events. The 2019 Super Netball-winning NSW Swifts were named team of the year. Indoor skydiver Amy Watson won young athlete of the year after being named junior freestyle world champion at the 2019 championships. Simon Cusack won coach of the year after guiding champion swimmers Cate and Bronte Campbell to three gold, three silver and one bronze medal at the 2019 FINA world championships. 
