sport gaa
{ By Josh Hanrahan For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:55, 18 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7688551/Gender-pay-gap-Netball-one-sport-men-trail-women.html }
Female sports stars are celebrating equal pay deals, but one men's team remains so firmly in the shadows of their women counterparts they are forced to pay their own way when representing their country. News that the Matildas will now be paid the same as the Socceroos when pulling on the green and gold - about $100,000-a-year - was met with praise last week. The move follows Cricket Australia's deal to pay the women's team at the upcoming T20 World Cup the same as the men. But while women's teams in two male-dominated sports are being financially looked after, the same can't be said for men who play one the few female-dominated sports. Each of the 12 players selected to play for Australia's men's netball team at the World Cup will have to pay $2,000 to cover the cost of flights, accommodation and meals. On the other hand, Australian Diamonds stars can pocket $150,000 annually, enjoy endorsement deals and play in front of sold out stadiums, while thousands more are able to watch at home through a free-to-air TV broadcast deal with Channel Nine.  This is despite the fact that although amateurs, the men would beat the nation's best women. In a recent competitive pre-World Championship match, the New Zealand men actually beat the women's world champions, the Silver Ferns. Even with superstars such as Maria Folau, Ameliaranne Ekenasio and Jane Watson, they lost 66-54 to the men's invitational team.   Just three weeks later, the Silver Ferns beat Australia and were crowned the world's best.  While the outcome of New Zealand's amateur men taking on the professional women may come as a shock to many, it wasn't to those who regularly watch men's netball. 'It doesn't surprise me... I would've expected it,' Grant Crocker, the president of the Australian Men's and Mixed Netball Association (AMMNA), told Daily Mail Australia. 'They can jump higher, run faster and are physically stronger, so it's not really fair to compare the men's sport to the women's sport. 'Now, not every men's team is going to beat the Australian Diamonds... but certainly the Australian men's team would and probably the Victorian Men's Open team may.'  Under a new pay agreement reached last year, players in the Suncorp Super Netball league - the national competition in Australia - earn an average of $67,000. Despite being competitively superior than their female counterparts, men's netball is totally self-funded - and shows no signs of changing in the foreseeable future. Although they are desperate to grow the game, so small is the sport of men's netball that the AMMNA is not officially recognised by Netball Australia.  'Whether they play for a local team, a state team or for Australia, it is all self-funded,' Mr Crocker said. 'It's difficult in that if we have problems with player we can't just say "turn up or else we'll give your spot to another person", because they are the ones who are paying. CRICKET: - Men: International stars have a base salary of $278,100. Steve Smith takes home an estimated $2 million, plus a number of six-figure endorsements - Women: A new pay deal will see the women's T20 World Cup team earn the same as the men. WBBL players have an average salary of $46,000, while those who represent Australia in long form cricket can take home $300,000 SOCCER: - Men and women are paid equal when representing Australia under new deal NETBALL: - Men: No wages. Players pay their own money to attend tournaments at all levels - Women: Top Australian Diamonds stars like Caitlin Bassett are estimated to earn more than $150,000 annually AFL: - Men: Rookies earn a base of $71,500, while the league's best earn more than $1 million - Women: Wages range from $13,000 to $29,856 for top paid AFLW players  TENNIS: - Men and women take home the same prize money at the Australian Open. Up to $75,000 for first round losers and $4.1m for the winners GOLF: - Men: Australian star Adam Scott took home $4.084 million in prizemoney in 2019 - Women: In the LPGA, Aussie young gun Minjee Lee pocketed $1.508m for her efforts in 2019 BASKETBALL:  - Men: The minimum wage for NBA players sits at above $800,000, while Aussie star Ben Simmons agreed to a five-year, $170million deal, earlier this year - Women: WNBA players earn a minimum of $75,000, with Australian centre Liz Cambage earning $110,500 in 2019    'To go to the Australian Championships next year is about $2,000, so for a team of 12 that’s about $50,000 a team. 'We would certainly like to be able to fund players eventually, but that costs a lot and is a long way off.' By comparison, Australian Diamonds captain Caitlin Bassett is estimated to take home more than $150,000 from her domestic and national commitments. But even with her standing as a veteran of the national team, Bassett, 31, has a university degree in journalism.  Many of her domestic and junior teammates are also studying or working part-time, with an eye to eventually making sport their full-time profession. In a similar boat are Australia's women cricketers, who earn an average of $46,000 for playing in the Women's Big Bash League (WBBL) T20 competition. Stars such Ellyse Perry and Meg Lanning, who represent Australia in all three forms of the game, make in excess of $300,000 annually. One of the nation's leading female stars, Matildas golden girl Sam Kerr, last week signed a $2 million deal with English mega club Chelsea. This was less than a week after Football Federation Australia (FFA) announced a new pay deal where the Matildas and Socceroos will share revenue equally from 2019. While the nation's top female stars in netball, soccer and cricket are all making a full-time living from their sports, that's a long way off for the nation's top male netballers. Women's netball currently has a modest free-to-air deal with Channel Nine, with the media giant broadcasting games and aiding the sport to attract sponsors. But the only place to watch the men's sport is through a YouTube stream, once again organised and funded by the players. A world record crowd of almost 17,000 fans packed into the 2015 World Cup Final in Sydney to see Australia beat New Zealand 58-55. For the men, the national championships sees a total of 8,000 players, officials and spectators - many of them family and friends - attend over the week-long tournament.  But that sits fine with Mr Crocker, who understands the sport's position.  He is also very supportive of the recent equal pay deals for women cricketers and soccer stars, believing it will grow both sports and make them more appealing to young girls - a stage he hopes men's netball will also one day reach.  'The Australian Men's and Mixed teams are very envious of where the women are and that's our direction, we want to try and achieve what they have achieved,' he said. 'The women's association has been doing it a lot longer, at least 50 years longer than we have, but they still have their own challenges. 'I think the AFL gets $1billion for TV rights, Netball Australia is not getting that, so we understand where we sit.  'But a survey that just came out recently shows number are growing, we've got more than 107,000 players which is up 50 per cent. 'They've put in a lot of work to get to where they are, now we need to do the same.'    
