sport gaa
{ By Mike Keegan For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:30, 17 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7695677/SPORTS-AGENDA-UK-Sport-hit-continued-cyber-attack.html }
UK Sport has been targeted by hackers. The government agency, which provides Olympic and Paralympic funding, has been fighting off what is described as a ‘brute-force cyber attack’ over the past month, in which programmes used by invaders enter staggering numbers of passwords in an attempt to gain access to confidential information. The situation is so serious that last week they had to shut down their email system as part of a defence against the infiltration efforts. A spokesperson said that UK Sport are ‘confident’ that none of their systems have been breached and added that they are ‘continuing to take all appropriate measures to prevent unauthorised access’. They added that key stakeholders had been made aware of the issue.  Given the amount of confidential information no doubt held by UK Sport, there may well be some anxious onlookers for as long as the attack continues.  When Sheffield United owner Prince Abdullah tweeted photos of a Dubai meeting with staff including manager Chris Wilder last week he probably saw it as an ideal public relations opportunity. But it appears to have been more of an own goal. Eagle-eyed Blades fans were quick to zoom in on a flip chart in the corner of the room which seemed to show replacements were being targeted for on-loan goalkeeper Dean Henderson, and possible upgrades sought on Oliver Norwood and Chris Basham. United supporters were also quick to pick up that favourite Billy Sharp was not spotted among the names of strikers. There may have been some explaining to do when the group returned to South Yorkshire, although insiders say no trade secrets were divulged.  The Gomez-Sterling row resulted in headlines across the world, although its importance seemed to be lost on ITV Sport. During the subsequent Montenegro game at Wembley, the Liverpool defender was booed by some morons when he came on as a substitute. But the audible response — and its significance — seemed to be lost on the broadcaster, with no mention at the time. While commentators have a lot to deal with during the game, the ludicrous booing was not even referenced in the studio at full-time. Baffling.  While Toronto’s signing of Sonny Bill Williams is an incredible statement of intent, it would appear that there is some way to go with regards to the Super League newcomers edging into the public consciousness — if the press conference to unveil the new man is anything to go by.  Wolfpack officials used Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium for the event, which seemed a smart move. But proceedings were almost delayed when head coach and former Great Britain star Brian McDermott, in full club tracksuit, was halted at reception and stopped from going up the escalator by a member of stadium staff — who had no idea who he was.  McDermott, 49, a hard-as-nails former Royal Marine, had to explain who he was before being allowed in. One onloooker said: ‘Not much hope of spreading the game when the coach of the franchise that’s made Williams the highest paid star in both codes can’t get into his own presser!’  One might think that, at the weekend, British Cycling would be keen to put as much distance as possible between themselves and the mud-slinging debacle unfolding at the medical tribunal of Dr Richard Freeman. The hearing into the former British Cycling and Team Sky doctor, which has shone a light on the staggering dysfunction at the Manchester Velodrome at a time it became known as the Medal Factory, is taking place at the St James’s Building in the city. Yesterday, the governing body held their annual national council meeting. The venue? Manchester’s Principal Hotel — roughly 50 yards away from the tribunal room.  Gareth Southgate's hopes of keeping the remarkable bust-up between Raheem Sterling and Joe Gomez quiet were not helped by the presence of several former England players at St George’s Park last Monday. A number of ex-internationals were in the vicinity of the incident, including some of Southgate’s former team-mates from his playing days, although only current players and coaching staff witnessed Sterling going for Gomez in the canteen. On a chaotic day, the FA were always planning to release news of the incident after Sterling’s punishment had been determined but their hand was forced when Sportsmail broke the story at 9.45pm, leading the FA to rush out a statement confirming the Manchester City winger would miss the Montenegro game, 90 minutes later.  News from the eighth tier of English rugby which might cause concern across the country and, indeed, in Whitehall. Down in London 3 South-West, one team have encountered great difficulty in getting a full first XV on the park and have had to cancel three recent fixtures in a row. Their issues will raise a knowing nod from the many secretaries across the land grappling similar scenarios, with cry-offs and availability a constant headache. However, the club in question is none other than United Services Portsmouth, who traditionally call upon serving military personnel from the Royal Navy, Royal Marines and the Army.  England's week of warm-up activity ahead of their Test series against New Zealand represented the ideal opportunity for Sky presenter Ian Ward and a cameraman to spend a period of rest and recuperation in the adventure capital of Queenstown following the T20 fixtures. However, insiders say the pair were abruptly recalled to Whangarei, where the second of two friendly fixtures was being played. Onlookers Down Under have wondered whether Sky were provoked into action because other journalists put up brief action videos during the first practice game earlier in the week. The broadcaster said they did change plans but has denied it had anything to do with the activities of other journalists.  
