{ By Laura Lambert and Will Kelleher For Mailonline   Published:  22:30, 17 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7695759/Saracens-gather-entire-squad-crisis-talks-Wednesday.html }
Saracens will gather their entire squad together for crisis talks on Wednesday as they plan how to cope with their 35-point deduction and £5.36m fine for breaking salary cap rules. Saracens must inform Sport Resolutions by midnight on Monday whether they wish to seek a review of the judgement or accept the sanctions issued to them on November 4. On Sunday, they seem to have decided on the latter, with the club not disputing reports that they had opted against a challenge. Neither the club nor Premiership Rugby Limited (PRL) were willing co comment but are expected to do so Monday. It has been suggested that Saracens have opted not to review because of a concern that the sanctions could be heavier. The regulations do allow the disciplinary panel to impose a reduction of the salary cap for the offending club for the subsequent season, a prospect Saracens would certainly want to avoid. The European and Premiership champions will have all seven of their England World Cup finalists, including Owen Farrell and Maro Itoje, back in St Albans this week. By that point the decision to take the hefty punishments on the chin will be public knowledge. After their first Champions Cup defeat since April 2018 at the hands of Racing 92 on Sunday, Sarries coach Mark McCall disclosed he had been involved in the decision-making process. Asked who was in charge of the call he said: 'The CEO and owners and the board. I probably know what we're going to do but I’m not going to tell you. It's not my decision to make. It's not up to me. 'It's a legal, technical decision whether you appeal or not. You've got to have grounds for an appeal. I'll leave that to people much cleverer than me whether we should or shouldn't. 'I'm getting on with the rugby, try to get the best out of this group of players.' 'We are going to get together for the first time on Wednesday and have our first proper conversation about where we go from here. 'We are looking forward to having that as it is the first time we have had the whole group together since the end of May when we played in the Premiership final. 'The England players want to come back, they want to play and help their team. 'This team has been together a long time, the relationships between the players and the staff are strong. We all care about it. Of course, we are all bothered by it.' McCall has asked for the judgment to be made public but Sportsmail understands that special permission would have to be given to do so as the regulations require that the judgement remains confidential, aside from a 'summary' published by PRL. He admitted the secretive situation was unsatisfactory and he would be keen to see the details released. 'I think we all would,' he added. 'But as far as I know that’s not possible.' Once Saracens have paid the fine, PRL can plan to distribute the fine money. The regulations do not stipulate how such money is spent, leaving options open for it to be distributed to clubs or perhaps channelled into grass-roots rugby.   
