sport gaa
{ By Megan Sheets  and Luke Kenton For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:34, 14 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7685853/Cowboys-fans-threaten-boycott-team-signs-Colin-Kaepernick.html }
Dallas Cowboys fans are threatening to boycott the team if it signs free agent Colin Kaepernick as the former 49ers quarterback prepares for his private workout this weekend amid speculation that the session could be a PR stunt orchestrated by NFL officials.  The NFL invited all 32 teams to attend the workout on Saturday - offering Kaepernick the chance to return to the field for the first time since his protests against racial injustice roiled the sport three years ago.   Representatives from the Miami Dolphins, Atlanta Falcons and the Detroit Lions have all confirmed they'll be attending the session at the Falcon's training camp, and at least seven others have reportedly committed as well. ESPN's Josina Anderson reported on Twitter Tuesday that the Dallas Cowboys were among the teams sending representatives - but the news was not well received by fans.  Scroll down for video  Dozens of Cowboys supporters responded to the reports by vowing to abandon the team if it signed Kaepernick.   'I wont watch another cowboy game in my life if they pick that POS up,' one fan tweeted in response to Anderson's post.    'You can't call yourself America's team and then sign someone who kneels for the National Anthem,' a person who claims to have been a Cowboys fan since the 1970s wrote. 'If it happens, I will be a [Houston] Texans fan.'  Cowboys coach Jason Garrett remained tight lipped on whether the invitation would be accepted during a press conference Wednesday. 'I'm not really in-tuned to that situation very much,' Garrett said of Kaepernick. 'We have personnel people who evaluate all guys who have an opportunity to hopefully help our team.' The Cowboy's current quarterback, Dak Prescott, is out of contract at the end of the season.    Kaepernick, who hasn't played since the 2016 season, confirmed in a tweet Tuesday that league officials had reached out to his representatives and expressed an interest in hosting the workout and interview session.   'I've been in shape and ready for this for 3 years, can't wait to see the head coaches and GMs on Saturday,' the exiled former Pro Bowl quarterback wrote.   While Kaepernick voiced his excitement over the opportunity, others expressed suspicion that the workout could be a PR stunt by league officials who shunned the quarterback after he kneeled during the National Anthem in 2016.  Carolina Panthers safety Eric Reid - Kaepernick's former 49ers teammate who was the first player to join him in taking a knee to protest extrajudicial killings of black people by police - on Wednesday said 'it feels disingenuous' that the league would schedule the workout on a Saturday, as most teams play on Sunday.   'I'll believe it when I see it,' Reid told ESPN. 'At this point, it feels like a PR stunt.' The reason behind the sudden outreach from the NFL is not yet known, however many are questioning its timing and the league's lack of flexibility considering the date, believing that Kaepernick could be being set up for failure. Firstly, Saturday tryouts conflict with the regular NFL scouting of college football games.  And secondly, asking high-ranking NFL personnel to get on flights to and from Atlanta hours before Sunday's kickoff times will likely limit the number of attendees willing to make the trip. 'It didn't make a whole lot of sense,' a source told The Ringer.  After he was released from the 49ers in 2016, Kaepernick charged that teams would not sign him because they wanted to distance themselves from the protests, which President Donald Trump blasted as unpatriotic and disrespectful. But despite a prolonged absence from the field, several teams are now showing interest in adding the quarterback to their roster.  New England Patriots Miami Dolphins Denver Broncos Detroit Lions Arizona Cardinals Atlanta Falcons Cleveland Browns New York Giants New York Jets Tampa Bay Buccaneers Washington Redskins Source: Bleacher Report  A league source told CNN that at least 10 teams are planning to send representative's to the workout on Saturday.   The source said that of the 'double-digit' teams, most are planning to send representatives who typically evaluate back-up players.    At a press conference on Wednesday, Miami Dolphins head coach Brian Flores appeared optimistic that Kaepernick's abilities won’t have diminished in the last three years. 'Having that much time off you have to get back into the swing of things,' Flores told reporters. 'But he was a very good player so we'll see what it looks like and do our due diligence and take it from there.'  Lions coach Matt Patricia also confirmed that the team would attend, telling TMZ: 'As an organization, we always do our due diligence on all players that are available... so I know [Bob Quinn] and his staff will have someone down there to watch the workout and we’ll see where that goes.'  Teams were informed by the league on Tuesday that Kaepernick will do on-field work and be available for an interview, and all 32 teams are invited. Video of both also will be made available to clubs. A source said the league's decision to invite all 32 teams to watch Kaepernick 'came out of the blue with no prior communication'.  They added Kaepernick's team was given a two-hour window to accept the invitation and was denied a request to schedule the tryout on a Tuesday or another Saturday. Kaepernick's representatives have asked the league to provide a rolling list of teams that plan to attend the workout to ensure it's a 'legitimate process,' according to the person who spoke on condition of anonymity because details haven't been made public. In six seasons with the San Francisco 49ers, Kaepernick appeared in 69 games and completed 59.8 percent of his passes for 12,271 yards with 72 touchdowns and 30 interceptions. He added 13 rushing touchdowns. He opted out of his contract with the San Francisco 49ers after the 2016 season after his kneeling protests reached an unsavory crescendo. Last month, Kaepernick's representatives released a two-page statement 'to address the false narratives' regarding his efforts to join an NFL team. Among the details, the statement said no team has offered Kaepernick a job or brought him in for a workout since the 2016 season. It noted that the Seattle Seahawks brought Kaepernick in for a visit, but did not work him out, and that no other team has interviewed or visited with the quarterback 'despite other false statements in the media to the contrary.' Kaepernick's representatives said their client had been working out five days a week for three years and has not demanded a specific salary. They said at the time they had reached out to all 32 NFL organizations 'with little to no response from teams about an opportunity.' President Trump, who called Kaepernick 'unpatriotic' for his protest, weighed in on the quarterback's likelihood of resuming his career. 'Frankly, I'd love to see Kaepernick come in — if he's good enough,' Trump said in August. 'But I don't want to see him come in because somebody thinks it's a good PR move. If he's good enough, he will be in.' The workout on Saturday will consist of on-field activities and interviews with team officials, according to ESPN. ‘We have... arranged this opportunity for him to work out, and for all clubs to have the opportunity to evaluate his current readiness and level of interest in resuming his NFL career,’ the league said in a memo Kaepernick filed a collusion grievance against NFL owners in October 2017 after going unsigned as a free agent. The two sides resolved the grievance in February with the settlement thought to be in the region of $10million.      
