{ By Michael Thomsen For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:21, 13 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7682835/All-global-emissions-gains-electric-cars-wiped-booming-SUV-sales.html }
According to a new study from the International Energy Agency, the decreases in global emissions caused by electric vehicles has been effectively canceled by gas guzzling sport utility vehicles. On average electric vehicles produce about half as much emissions as traditional gas driven cars. There were more than  5.1million electric cars in circulation globally in 2018, two million more than in 2017. By comparison there were more than 200million SUVs around the world in 2018.  SUVs accounted for 40 percent of all car sales, and in the US one out of every two car sales is an SUV.   Almost half of global SUV sales come from the United States.  As the number of SUVs has exploded, so has the amount of emissions they produce.  Today, SUVs are the second biggest source of emissions in the world, behind only the power sector. SUV produce more emissions are higher than the aviation industry, as well as all other industrial sectors combined, according to a report from Electrek. ‘The world urgently needs to put a laser-like focus on bringing down global emissions,’ the IEA’s Faith Birol said. ‘This calls for a grand coalition encompassing governments, investors, companies and everyone else who is committed to tackling climate change.’ While it may look like electric vehicles are currently losing the fight, the IEA predicts that they’ll eventually balance SUVs out. The IEA predicts that by 2040 there will be more than 330million electric cars on the roads around the world, and another 40million commercial electric vehicles like buses and trucks. This shift will cause the global oil demand to plateau at a little over 100million barrels a day. One of the catalysts for this transition could be the growing popularity of electric trucks and SUVs. On November 21st, Elon Musk will offer a new peak at what that future will look when he unveils Tesla’s anticipated electrick pickup, which he has nicknamed ‘Cybertruck.’ Both Ford and GM have also announced plans to release electric pickups in the next few years. Elon Musk has revealed new details of the firms planned pickup truck - and asked customers what they want to see in the eagerly anticipated vehicle. Last year, Musk confirmed that the car would be Tesla's next vehicle after the upcoming release of the Model Y. Now, more details of the plans have been revealed.  'Tesla Truck will have dual motor all-wheel drive with crazy torque and a suspension that dynamically adjusts for the load,' Musk confirmed. Musk also said that the dual motor powertrain is going to be standard, like it is with Model S and Model X, along with the dynamic suspension. He is also considering having the back wheels of the car turn, based on a Twitter suggestion. It will be equipped with Tesla's autopilot, and Musk said that it was a smaller version of Tesla Semi and 'a pickup truck that can carry a pickup truck.' He also said the truck will parallel park automatically and be equipped with a 3609 degree camera and sonar. Musk previously said the pickup would probably be slightly bigger than a Ford F-150 and hinted it could be based on the upcoming Model Y. Tesla has mainly focused on producing passenger cars over the past decade but has branched out in recent years, including investing in battery production. Musk has previously hinted that a pickup model was due.  In a message on Twitter last year, he said: 'I promise that we will make a pickup truck right after Model Y. 'Have had the core design/engineering elements in my mind for almost 5 years. Am dying to build it.'     
