sport gaa
{ By Chris Dyer For Mailonline   Published:  16:25, 13 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7681653/Sickening-video-bull-fighter-repeatedly-stabbing-bull-head-Spain.html }
A horrifying video of a matador repeatedly stabbing a bull in the head has been released by PETA to highlight the horrors of the brutal blood sport. The clip shows a bullfighter plunging a knife through the animal's skull as it lies injured on the ground in Bilbao, northern Spain. Blood could be seen pouring from its head as the bullfighter knifed the beast again and again during an event last September.  Animal welfare group PETA released the 45-second video this week as it launched a petition calling for a ban on the gruesome sport.  Activists wrote to Spain's prime minister, Pedro Sanchez, who was re-elected in a general election last week, asking him to step in and outlaw bullfighting.  A spokesman for the group said: 'Every year, thousands of bulls endure a bloody death in bullrings across Spain. 'These deaths are slow and painful: men on horseback and on foot drive lances and barbed sticks into bulls' backs before the tormented animals are stabbed with a sword or dagger. 'At the annual Running of the Bulls in Pamplona, terrified bulls are shocked with electric prods to force them out onto the streets, where they're harassed by screaming mobs.  'The panicked animals often slip and crash into walls, resulting in broken bones and other injuries. Later, these same bulls will be barbarically killed in the bullring ~ a fact many tourists are unaware of. 'Compassionate people understand that this violence is needless and unjustifiable, and opposition to bullfighting is growing both within Spain and around the world.   'It's time for the Spanish government to step up and protect animals.' So far over 100 towns across Spain have banned bullfighting and in July 2010 the autonomous region of Catalonia voted to stop the practice. According to an Ipsos MORI poll, over 80 per cent of Spanish people oppose the cruel event as attendances at many cities has fallen in recent years. PETA's letter to Pedro Sanchez described how the animals die 'slowly and painfully' during a bullfight. It reads: 'Bullfights are immensely cruel events in which thousands of animals are slowly and painfully killed across Spain every year. 'Attackers on horseback and on foot drive lances and sharp sticks into bulls' necks and backs, and when the animals have become weakened by blood loss, a matador finally kills them with a sword. 'Bulls also suffer in bull runs, in which they're forced to run through the streets while being harassed by a terrifying mob.  'The panicked animals often lose their footing and crash into walls, breaking bones and otherwise injuring themselves. 'Please listen to the voices of people in Spain and across the world and ban bullfighting and bull runs now.' 
