sport gaa
{ By Rob Hull For Thisismoney.co.uk    Published:  11:23, 13 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/cars/article-7680649/The-65-000-Range-Rover-Sport-reliable-new-car-buy.html }
If you forked out over £64,425 on a new car, you'd expect it to be pretty reliable. However, a new survey of 44,000 UK drivers has found that Land Rover's ultra-posh Range Rover Sport SUV is the least dependable new model on the market.  According to the latest Which? Car Reliability poll, it scored an 'appalling' one star out of five for dependability for vehicles less than three years old, positioning it at the bottom of the reliability standings for a second year running. The consumer group said a worrying 42 per cent of owners of the hugely popular 'Chelsea Tractors' had to visit the garage at least once because of problems with their Range Rover Sport in the 12 months before the survey. And it wasn't just a single issue that had riddled the expensive SUV. Which? claimed there was an 'exhaustive list of problems', covering everything from the built-in sat nav, connectivity to the infotainment system, dashboard displays going haywire and the on-board computer software having glitches. Away from onboard electronic gremlins, owners of Range Rover Sports up to three years old also reported plenty of suspension issues - which tend to be very pricey in big SUVs - and recurring woes with parking sensors and reversing cameras.  The likelihood of breaking down was also cause for concern.  More than one in ten (11 per cent) of owners had to call out a recovery service at least once in the year before the survey was completed.  That's four times the average for all vehicles, described by experts at the consumer group as 'pretty shocking for such a new car'.   And the Range Rover Sport wasn't the only problem child for the British vehicle manufacturer.  The smaller Land Rover Discovery Sport - which costs from £31,575 - has also been causing problems for those who've bought them.  More than half of the owners who completed Which?'s survey said their car had suffered at least one fault in the last 12 months.  These problems weren't minor niggles either. Some 7 per cent had issues with the engine management system, which can be a serious - and pricey - fault to fix.  It seems these issues took some time to repair, too, with owners typically being left without their car for five whole days while Land Rover mechanics attempted to fix the issues.  Some didn't even make it to their local dealer for repairs, according to keepers.  Around 4 per cent of Land Rover Discovery Sports broke down on the way to the garage.    
