{ By Marcus Townend for the Daily Mail   Published:  19:20, 12 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-7678095/British-Horseracing-Authority-excludes-ELEVEN-individuals-Goodwood-violence.html }
The British Horseracing Authority (BHA) has excluded from the sport 11 individuals who were involved in an episode of violent disorder at Goodwood racecourse on 5 May 2018. The move follows the conclusion of criminal proceedings which resulted in the conviction and sentencing of all 11 individuals at Guildford Crown Court after charges were brought by Sussex Police. The exclusions imposed on all 11 individuals are for an indefinite period with a minimum of three years and prevent them from entering any premises licensed by the BHA, which includes racecourses and training yards. Chris Watts, Head of Integrity for the BHA, said: 'A day at the races is a fun, safe and relaxing day out that is suitable for all the family. The sport will not tolerate any incidents of serious anti-social behaviour and, in this case, gratuitous violence. 'On the very rare occasions when it does occur we will work collaboratively with the police and the racecourses to ensure that the appropriate action is taken against the individuals involved.' Adam Waterworth, Managing Director of Sport at Goodwood racecourse, added: 'We are delighted that the evidence we provided has helped secure an appropriately serious sentence for the perpetrators of this incident. 'We take a zero-tolerance stance on anti-social behaviour here at Goodwood, and to support this, we installed an extensive CCTV network across the course a few years ago, which helped us provide clear footage to Sussex Police of the incident. 'This sends out a strong message to the public - anti-social behaviour is not welcome at Goodwood, and we will continue to be vigilant so racegoers can enjoy the best possible experience when they come racing with us.' The scenes at Goodwood showing a mass brawl involving around 50 people and including one man being kicked in the head while in the ground shone a spotlight on the anti-social behaviour on racecourses and prompted changes across all race tracks including more rigorous checking for recreational drugs.   
