sport gaa
{ By Andrew Bullock For Mailonline   Published:  18:12, 12 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7677897/Vicky-Pattison-dons-busty-black-dress-Amy-Hart-sparkles-silver-ITV-Palooza-London.html }
Maura Higgins and Ferne McCann turned heads on the red carpet on Tuesday night as they stepped out in deeply plunging noir gowns at annual glitz-fest ITV Palooza in London, as Holly Willoughby and Megan McKenna looked chic in black cocktail dresses.  The event - held at the Royal Festival Hall - attracts the TV network's favorite stars, assembled to toast another successful year of television. Maura - of Love Island 2019 - looked sensational in her dress; a lacy trailing gown with a front split with a vast plunge at the bust, teasing her assets. The upcoming Dancing On Ice contestant showed off a tan as she sizzled for snaps, adding strapped heels for height and accessorising with gold jewelry. She slicked her brunette locks back behind her shoulders and smoldered through deeply smokey eyes, a slick of clay pink to her pout.  Ferne sported a daring evening gown with a plunging front, split paneling at the sides and a further jagged split at the front, teasing her toned pins. She showcased a wet look to her mane, which fell in strands around her shoulders. Ferne fluttered her thickly-blackened lashes and smiled for snaps as she walked the red carpet.  This Morning host Holly went much more conservative for the bash, stepping out in a cocktail dress in black with silver detailing around the neckline. The ITV stalwart was her usual smiley self, flashing a grin for cameras, wearing her platinum locks loosely around her features in light waves. Her diamond neck trim glistening in the flashes of the camera bulbs, Holly's make-up featured rose blusher and a slick of light pink on her lips.  Megan looked somewhat steely-faced as she strutted the red carpet, her X Factor: Celebrity success no doubt on her mind. Her dress was semi-sheer and lacy, with sequin paneling. She wore her mane in a high ponytail atop her head.   Vicky Pattison donned a busty black dress as she reunited with fellow I'm A Celeb BFF Ferne at the event.  Vicky - who this year made the final of rival network BBC's Celebrity MasterChef - spilled her curves into an eye-popping LBD detailed with white crosses. Spray-tanned to the max, Vicky grinned for cameras, her long brunette locks tumbling in waves around her bare shoulders, off-setting the look with smokey eyes. She completed the look with killer black high heels. She and Ferne made the final of I'm A Celeb in 2015, with Ferne coming in third place and Vicky winning the season. Having remained pals, the pair reunited at Tuesday's event.  Love Island's Amy Hart reunited with her ex Curtis Pritchard as they attended the event. The former flight attendant - who was last seen with the dancer at the ITV2 series' reunion special in August - showed her former partner what he's missing as she turned heads in a plunging silver wrap dress, covered in glittery sequins. TV personality Amy ensured all eyes were on her in her dazzling ensemble, which featured a perilously low-cut neckline and a flattering waistbelt. Maintaining her glamorous appearance, the former beauty pageant queen flashed her metallic pedicure in a barely-there heels. Amy caught the eye with her choice of accessories - opting for a sparkling chain-strap handbag and diamond stud earrings. With her shoulder-length tresses styled into glossy waves, the blonde beauty complemented her features with a full face of dewy make-up.  Curtis looked typically dapper in a floral-embroidered suit, tied in with a dark shirt and classic Oxford shoes. Curtis' pal Tommy Fury was flying solo, no sign of other half Molly-Mae Hague. He wore a burnt orange plaid blazer with black skinny jeans and studded loafers. Anton Danyluk put on a dapper display in a midnight blue blazer over all-black, while Harley Brash looked autumnal in an orange evening gown Caroline Flack put on a glamorous display in a dazzling silver co-ord as she posed up a storm at the event. Showcasing her slender pins, Caroline opted for her go-to shorts, teaming the glittering item with a matching blazer. The star kept out the cold by teaming the two-piece with a black polo neck jumper.  Boosting her height, Caroline paired her look with a pair of encrusted silver heels and carried her essentials in a beaded black bag.  Her blonde tresses were left to cascade down her back while she added a dramatic palette of make-up including lashings of mascara and eye-liner.  Gemma Collins looked radiant as she revealed her new fringed hair style on the red carpet. The TOWIE star donned an elegant sparkly green dress which showed off her sensational curves for the event.  Gemma's floor-length gown featured slightly sheer sleeves which were also covered in the sparkly pattern. The outfit also boasted a satin ribbon which bought the dress in slightly at the waist, showing off the results of the reality star's three-stone weight loss.  Adding some height to her ensemble, Gemma styled the eye-catching outfit with a pair of gold strappy heels which could just be seen peaking out from her dress. To complete her glamorous look Gemma styled her hair with lots of volume and debuted a fringe which parted in the middle. Gemma added a full face of makeup for her night on the red carpet and donned a touch of nude lipstick to pull together her elegant ensemble.  During the evening the star appeared to be in high spirits and joked around with comedian Alan Carr as the pair arrived at Royal Festival Hall. Alan put on a dapper display in checked grey trousers which clashed fabulously with his stripey socks. The funny man also donned a black blazer jacket and a crisp white shirt to complete his attire.  Gemma and Alan wrapped their arms around each other and smiled for the cameras before stepping inside, with Gemma leaning back and showing off her figure.  Susanna Reid showed off her toned frame in a scarlet off-the-shoulder dress as she joined her dapper co-host Piers Morgan on the red carpet. The stylish dress teased a glimpse of her decolletage with ribbon detail adorning her shoulders. Cinching in at her slender waist, the gown flowed into a chic pencil skirt. The star drew the eye to her honed legs in a pair of glittery stiletto heels.  Her brunette locks were styled in soft waves while her pretty features were enhanced with smoky shadow, fluttery lashes and scarlet lipstick. Piers was also seen posing with Love Island's Lucie Donlan and larking around with Holly in front of the event's branding board.  Piers showed off his sense of style in a white shirt and navy suit with black leather shoes.  Olivia Attwood put on a very busty display in a black puffball mini dress as she posed up a storm at the glittering event.  The thigh-skimming number allowed the beauty to perfectly showcase her endless pins, with Olivia adding a pop of colour with green suede heels.  Her sweet dress featured spaghetti straps and a huge bow at the back, with Olivia completing her look with dazzling silver earrings and a gold bracelet.  Upping the glam, the former Love Island star swept her blonde tresses into a sleek ponytail while she added a shimmering palette of make-up to her face.  TOWIE lovebirds Georgia Kousoulou and Tommy Mallet stepped out on the red carpet together for the event. The reality starlet looked sensational in a plunging white co-ord suit, which showed off a glimpse of her cleavage as she opted not to wear a shirt underneath. Georgia's ensemble was cinched at the waist to highlight her hourglass figure, while her trousers were flared for a glamorous flourish.  Her blonde locks were slicked back over her shoulders in a sleek, straight style and she wore a slick of red lipstick to accentuate her plump pout. Complementing the look, Georgia accessorised with a pair of dazzling heart-shaped earrings, and kept her personal items in a grey handbag. Meanwhile, Tommy offset his girlfriend, as he donned an all-black ensemble that saw him pair a bomber jacket with slim-fit trousers and studded loafers. Despite being eliminated from last week's X Factor: Celebrity alongside her bandmates Samira Mighty, Eyal Booker and Wes Nelson, Zara McDermott appeared to brush aside her recent defeat as she attended the soiree.  The Love Island star caught the eye as she slipped her enviable physique into a navy satin gown, complete with a racy thigh-high slit to showcase her lean legs. Putting on a daring display, the TV personality's elaborate number featured a plunging neckline, a form-fitting bodice and a flowy skirt with a dramatic train. The former government adviser added height to her frame in a pair of bedazzled ankle-strap heels as she posed up a storm on the red carpet. Zara ensured focus remained on her outfit as she dressed her hair in a simple wavy style and opted for minimal accessories.  Commanding attention with her radiant appearance, she accentuated her beauty with peach-toned make-up. Stacey Solomon joked that beau Joe Swash 'won't recognise' her as she joined him at the ITV Palooza. The Loose Women panellist showed off her quirky sense of style in a tiered metallic gown which had a multi-coloured design to ensure she stood out.  Stacey complemented her striking ensemble by boosting her height in a pair of gold peep-toe heels, while she accessorised with a pair of silver panelled earrings. Her brunette locks were styled into glamorous waves for the outing, and the TV personality used light touches of make-up to highlight her pretty features. Joe, meanwhile, looked dapper for the occasion as he donned a black three-piece suit that he teamed with a white open-collared shirt.   Prior to the night out, Stacey shared her thoughts of how Joe would react to her glam look as she joked that she wasn't 'sure if he will recognise me.'  In the car en route to the event, she joked: 'Can't wait to get back to the boys but also excited to be dressed up and on my way to meet Joe so that we can go together... not sure if he will recognise me.' ITV Palooza is the network's chance to unveil plans for the year and to preview brand new shows. Tuesday's event will be hosted by comedian John Bishop. Ahead of the gala ITV announced their plans for a new advertising product called Planet V which is due in 2020.  The system will allow advertisers to blend ITV first-party data with their own data to reach audiences, reports The Drum. ITV also revealed that Good Morning Britain will be extended by half an hour to run from 6am until 9am.  This means that Lorraine will move to 9am, followed at 10am by This Morning, also extended by 30 minutes, before Loose Women at 12.30pm, ending at 1.30pm. Last year's star-studded event was also held at the Royal Festival Hall in London and was attended by more than 1300 people.  The 2018 event was the first at its new location after being hosted at the London Palladium for the previous three years, reports Campaign.  During the evening chief executive Dame Carolyn McCall spoke about advertising and Robbie Williams closed the event by singing hits including Angels.    
