{ By Sir Clive Woodward for the Daily Mail   Published:  17:32, 12 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7677765/SIR-CLIVE-WOODWARD-salary-cap-revamp-light-Saracens.html }
Let me first declare an interest. I have known Nigel Wray a long time and like him immensely. He is a seriously good guy, who has been putting his money where his mouth is since the birth of professional club rugby. In fact he is the only original club owner who has lasted the distance and his commitment has never swerved. His investment of time, effort and money in the game has been monumental. But the findings from Premiership Rugby (PRL) - who followed up on information brought to light by Sportsmail's brilliant investigation - are extremely serious, as evidenced by the 35-point deduction and £5.3million fine. The umbrella organisation will not have done this lightly. Saracens are in many ways their flagship club, the market leaders of the English and indeed European club game, the team that fills Twickenham for big Cup finals. But they are only following the regulations signed up to by all the clubs. Saracens have been trendsetters from the start but, in their ultra competitive zeal, they have over-reached themselves on this occasion. Of course you look for every competitive advantage you can get in every aspect of the game, on and off the field, but it has to be legal.  From what I understand, Saracens believed they had spotted a legitimate way to work outside the salary cap to keep key players at the club, the so-called co-investor system with a number of key players.  Their argument is that an investment is very different to a contract salary but the three legal officers and experts sitting on the independent panel disagreed profoundly. In one way, I welcome such thinking outside the box but surely Saracens - who got their knuckles wrapped by the PRL over salary-cap issues a few years ago - must have known this was flirting with danger. They should have quietly checked it out with a PRL regulator and got it cleared - or not - before they tried to implement it. If the scheme had been deemed legal it might have alerted other clubs to the possibility, but how many others would have been in a position to follow suit? I believe rugby must look at new financial models because in the big scheme of things it is still a small sport with limited finance in which nobody gets rich - least of all club owners - but it needs to be transparent and regulated. That is pretty fundamental, otherwise you get anarchy. I can understand why Exeter Chiefs, who lost two finals against Saracens, are sore but I was disappointed to hear players from other clubs pile in as if it in some way explained their failures in recent seasons. If winning was down purely to money and player resources, England would be currently celebrating their ninth consecutive World Cup! Such personal criticism isn't healthy. Saracens contribute a significant number of players to the England cause and I wouldn't want to see any disharmony enter into what has seemed a very happy camp over the last 12 months. I would also advise against some clubs getting fixated about this. It might just be a coincidence but those clubs who complained most vocally and publicly about Saracens - Exeter, Gloucester and Harlequins - seemed to lose focus and slip to defeat at the weekend. Let Premiership Rugby sort it out with Saracens. This row has highlighted many things and one that must be acknowledged is that England - the RFU - lean very heavily on the Saracens contingent. They demand massive game time out of them every year and those full houses at Twickenham go a long way to financing English rugby. Saracens don't see nearly as much of their star players as they would like and they can arrive back from Test duty tired and/or injured. It is hard for Saracens to shoulder that burden of responsibility while keeping within the salary cap. But those are the rules they signed up to. Saracens' top English players could all sign incredibly lucrative contracts tomorrow with the likes of Toulon, Racing, Montpellier, Toulouse and Clermont. And if that had happened those players would have disqualified themselves instantly from the England team. Going forward it feels like the whole salary cap system could do with a revamp.  
