sport gaa
{ By Sam Mcevoy For Mailonline   Published:  09:26, 12 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7675901/Cristiano-Ronaldo-NOT-fined-calling-Maurizio-Sarri-son-whore.html }
Cristiano Ronaldo will not be fined for his reaction to being substituted in the 1-0 win over AC Milan, according to reports in Italy. The Portuguese forward was visibly frustrated after he was brought off in the 55th minute for Paulo Dybala, making it the second game in a row that he has been substituted. Reports suggested that Ronaldo called manager Maurizio Sarri a 'son of a whore' before storming down the tunnel to the changing rooms. According to Gazzetta dello Sport, the 34-year-old will also not be fined for his outburst at Sarri but will be expected to apologise to his team-mates for not returning to the bench. Ronaldo also risked receiving a two-year ban due to anti-doping regulations after there were concerns that he left the Allianz Stadium early. Sky Sport Italia, as per Football Italia, reported that Ronaldo left the stadium three minutes before full-time on Sunday.  Following the explosive incident, Juve's sporting director Fabio Paratici contacted Ronaldo's agent Jorge Mendes to clear up the matter and identify any issues the player has. Ronaldo's outburst and lack of punishment has underlined how the five-time Ballon d'Or winner is above the law in Turin – something Sarri will have to get used to, according to Corriere dello Sport. Sarri confirmed after the game that there was no issue with Ronaldo and that he understands his frustrations. The Italian boss explained that injury was the reason why he brought Ronaldo off in the second half. 'We must thank Ronaldo, because he made a sacrifice to be there at all tonight in a difficult situation,' Sarri explained. 'He did everything possible to play, but I saw he was not well and thought it best to take him off.  'It's only natural a player is going to be irritated to leave the pitch, especially when he worked so hard to be there.  'Over the last month, he has had this little knee problem, he had a knock in training and it hurt the collateral ligament.   'When he trains at high intensity or plays, it unbalances him, so he ends up overcompensating and it damages the calf and thigh muscles. 'It is affecting his performances and he is not at his best at the moment.  'All players who are trying to give their best will have at least five minutes of being annoyed when they are substituted, but a coach would in general be much more worried if he didn't seem upset.' And while Sarri appears to have swept the issue under the rug, Ronaldo refused to acknowledge the incident when he broke his silence on Monday.  'Difficult game, important victory! #until the end,' Ronaldo said on Instagram. Ronaldo is now away on international duty with Portugal and will return for Juventus' next Serie A clash with Atalanta next weekend. 
