{ By Chloe Morgan   Published:  15:46, 11 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7673193/Sarah-Ferguson-giggles-whizzes-SCOOTER-suitcase-Beijing-airport.html }
The Duchess of York has shared an amusing video of herself riding a scooter suitcase through Beijing airport.  Sarah Ferguson, 59, posted the funny footage to her Instagram page and penned: 'When in Beijing Airport...."If you can keep your head when all about you, are losing theirs and blaming it on you".....go and get a scooter suitcase! #china' The post, which includes a quote from 'If - a poem by English Nobel laureate Rudyard Kipling - has been inundated with comments of praise from royal fans.  'Hahahaha coolest royal,' wrote one, while a second joked: 'Omg I would think I was in a parellel universe if I saw that!'    A third added: 'This just made my Monday,' while another penned: 'God Bless you Sarah! You are REAL!!!! Looks like you were having a little fun there!'  In the video, which has since racked up almost 15, 000 views in half an hour, Princess Beatrice and Eugenie's mother can be seen taking her glasses off her head before sitting upright with her legs either side of the handle bars. Wearing a bold green blazer with white piping detail, black skirt and tights, she can be seen holding on as she whizzes along laughing.   With her red bag in one hand and water bottle in the other, she then looks both left and right and says: 'My new luggage!' Only seconds later, she can be seen nearly driving into the barriers before quickly steering in the opposite direction and yelping out: 'Ooooops!'  In fits of giggles, she adds: 'This is very funny,' before the amusing footage cuts off.  Any while many praised the Duchess for having fun, others commended her for being such a good sport.  'This is brilliant,' wrote one, while a second penned: 'Love it. What a good sport!' A further added: 'OMG hilarious! Perhaps not the most elegant mode of transport, your ladyship. But thank you for brightening up my day,' while another commented: 'Hilarious, your face looks a complete happy picture.' 
