{ By Laura Lambert For The Daily Mail   Published:  11:27, 6 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7655651/Ex-England-captain-Chris-Robshaw-calls-Saracens-cheating-salary-cap-rule-break.html }
During his time as England captain, Chris Robshaw was rarely one to rock the boat. So for the diplomatic 33-year-old to launch such a stinging attack on Saracens on Wednesday is some demonstration of the strength of feeling around the all-conquering club being found guilty of salary cap breaches. The Harlequins skipper is angry, and he is not alone in that regard.  Sale chief Steve Diamond has likened the 35-point penalty and £5.36million fine handed down to Saracens by an independent panel to a serial burglar being hit with a jail term. Almost simultaneously, Exeter Chiefs head coach Rob Baxter was telling reporters he wants Sandy Park's trophy cabinet to be filled with the silverware he believes his players deserve. Yet Robshaw's words were the most powerful because they were the most out of character. Attending the season launch of the European Champions Cup in Cardiff, Robshaw did not shy away from the questions he must have known were coming. When asked about the elephant in the room, he said: 'It's been one of those things where unfortunately years and years ago a lot of clubs took a pay-out to be quiet about the incident.  'We look at their (Saracens) squad and it is a big squad of international players. I don't think you have to be a genius to work one of these things out. It looks like it is starting to be dealt with and, hopefully, it is going in the right direction. 'Hopefully we can get back to a level playing field. Because that is what the salary cap is about, isn't it?' How frustrating has he found it that there hasn't been a level playing field? 'Saracens are the benchmark. Rightly or wrongly — from what they have done off the field — they have set the standard with their players, the way they play, what they won, legally or illegally. It is tough to compete against. 'It is not great the game we love is in the world eye. The pinnacle of English rugby is illegal. I think it puts our sport in a very dangerous place. We are a sport that always claimed to be whiter than white. We would look down on football and look down on this and that, we would say how it is, but we are like everyone else.' Saracens' actions have been described as financial doping by former players, and Robshaw did not dismiss such a term. 'Call it what you want,' he said. 'It is cheating. It is not a good situation for our sport to be in. It is not a thing we pride ourselves on. When you look at cheating in athletics, when you look at cheating in cycling, when you look at cheating in baseball — for us as a sport we like to think our sport is cleaner than everyone else. It is not any more. It is not. We have to be realistic about that.  'As a sport we have to take the damage that comes with that now. I am sure it will be like that for a while. It is not going to be easy for our sport to move forward.' Baxter, just like his chairman Tony Rowe, appears more concerned for what his players missed out on than launching legal action against Saracens, although legal experts have indicated to Sportsmail they may have a case. 'If you're asking me would I like to walk into Sandy Park and see three Premiership trophies there, I would love to,' said Baxter. 'In reality, do I see that happening? No. There are too many other factors that come into play. I believe the way we played in the final last year would have beaten any other team in the Premiership. 'The bad feeling I've got is how hard our players have worked to have achieved what they've achieved. 'We worked hard to get to the last four finals. Saracens shouldn't be paying outside the salary cap, and to dress it up in player welfare and developing the game sticks in the craw.' Baxter, Robshaw and Diamond were at an event Saracens should have attended, too. It is understood Mark McCall and Brad Barritt did not appear because Saracens did not want to deflect attention away from the launch by facing questions about the salary cap.  Rather than face the media, Saracens appear to have spent considerable time on filming an in-house interview with Nigel Wray, which was released on Wednesday night. Sitting in a plush room in Allianz Park, Wray spoke about a 'band of brothers' at the club and that 'if you think it is about money, you are wrong, it is about caring, it is about love'. He maintained his long-held view that investment is not salary and the club has not breached the salary cap. 'Property, by definition, is a risk. It is a risk for the players and for me or whoever invests with them, and, indeed, for other staff members, ex-players and ex-coaches who over the years I've invested with. It is not like salary where someone gives you the salary at the end of the week.' Saracens will at some point have to open up to tough questions from outside their own ranks. For when even the likes of Robshaw are speaking out, this scandal is not going to disappear.  
