sport gaa
{ By Matt Barlow for the Daily Mail    Published:  15:09, 4 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7647911/Frank-Lampard-relish-chance-make-new-signings-January.html }
Any notion that Chelsea might actually be enjoying the restrictions of their FIFA-imposed transfer ban was dismissed by manager Frank Lampard as he prepared for another European clash with Ajax. Lampard is aware there are plenty among the Stamford Bridge faithful who consider the penalty for breaking the rules of recruitment for players under the age of 18 to have been a blessing in disguise. It has cleared the way for an exciting crop of academy graduates to break through when they might not have had a chance. But Chelsea, having served half of the two-window ban, have received a date to take their case before the Court of Arbitration for Sport on November 20. They want the punishment reduced to one window which would enable them to trade in the January market and they are making plans in the hope they will be cleared to invest and build on an impressive start to the season. 'As Chelsea we will always look to improve in windows if we can,' said Lampard. 'If we're allowed to and if the players we might look at are better or we feel are adding to the squad. 'I'm interested in what happens because it's going to affect what we can do in January or not. At the moment, I'm very happy with what I've got and hopefully the fans are as well.'  Chelsea have prospered despite the ban with young players such as Mason Mount, Tammy Abraham, Reece James and Fikayo Tomori stepping up to seize their opportunities. Others such as Kurt Zouma and Michy Batshuayi have returned to accept a second chance and Christian Pulisic, signed in January with the ban looming, has started to flourish. And there is the promise of more to come from emerging talents such as Billy Gilmour and Marc Guehi. 'Some players have come in and shown that they can do the roles and play well,' said Lampard. 'We're getting results at the moment. We're on a good run.' Mount insists the young players will not be concerned by the prospect of Chelsea moving back into the transfer market. 'We've had to deal with that during our whole time in the academy,' said the 20-year-old midfielder. 'You come into a team and there's players from different countries and you've got to work and show how good you are. There's always been that competition within Chelsea. 'We're all ready for it. There's still massive competition within the team and you've got to fight for your place. 'We've shown what we can do with a ban and we're doing well. Young players coming through have got to keep working hard and, looking at what we've done so far, they can definitely do what we've done. 'We're so tight as a team. The bond is good. We have the focus and togetherness we need to win trophies. 'We just need to keep getting better. That's what we have shown over the last couple of weeks. If we carry on that level of performance then we can definitely be a top contender.' Lampard's youngsters have improved at speed and are growing in confidence, winning eight of the last nine games in all competitions. It is a sequence which includes last month's 1-0 victory over Ajax in Amsterdam. The Dutch champions are at the Bridge for the return on Tuesday night and Chelsea will have a foot in the last 16 of the Champions League if they can produce another victory. 
