sport gaa
{ By Rianne Addo and Emer Scully For Mailonline   Published:  15:19, 3 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7644765/Stacey-Solomon-Joe-Swash-spark-speculation-theyre-secretly-MARRIED.html }
Stacey Solomon and Joe Swash have sparked speculation they secretly tied the knot during their family getaway to The Maldives. In a snap posted to the couple's Instagram on Saturday, fans claimed her sons Zachary, 11, Leighton, seven, and Rex, five months, looked as if they attended their wedding as they sported matching suits, and insisted actor Joe, 37, appeared to wear a ring on his wedding finger. The Loose Women panellist, 30, and the former EastEnders star - who have been dating since late 2015 - insisted they posed on the beach following a family dinner, but their social media followers were left convinced the long-term couple took their relationship to the next level during their sun-soaked break. Instagram users flooded their comments' sections with questions about their romance, with one fan asking: 'Did you get married?!', while another quizzed: 'Mr & Mrs ?!?!!'. 'Is that a ring I spy on @realjoeswashy hand????', a third shared, while another commented: 'Look closely.... is there a ring?? You look fabulous xx'. Keeping their fingers crossed for a surprise wedding, an excited fan added: 'Anyone else secretly hoping for a surprise wedding??'. [sic]     The pair have been in a happy relationship since late 2015, and moved in with each other in October 2018.    Stacey and Joe welcomed their first child together, Rex, in February 2019. Stacey shares her sons with her ex-partners, while Joe shares Harry, 12, with former fiancée, Emma Sophocleous. MailOnline has contacted Stacey and Joe's representatives for further comment.   Joe took a break from Dancing on Ice training to reunite with Stacey and his baby son earlier this week.  The former soap star took to Instagram to share a photograph of himself and baby Rex looking utterly delighted, which he captioned: 'We are back together!' Joe also took to his Instagram stories to document his travels, posting a sweet snap of his girlfriend cradling their son in her arms.  Stacey also shared the moment that Joe and Rex were reunited, with their son's face clearly elated as his father lifted him up in the air. And once in bed, Stacey posted a video of the couple cosied up, which she captioned: 'So happy he's here.'  In another snap, a topless Joe held Rex in his arms as they enjoyed a dip in the clear blue water.  Meanwhile, the X Factor star has been praised for being 'real' and body confident during her holiday in the Maldives.  The mother-of-three proudly displayed her curves in a blue Freya bikini as she happily played with her son Rex last week.  She had a big smile on her face as she held her tot with Joe in her arms, before sitting down with him by the pool, sharing the moments on Instagram.  Stacey also shared another video of herself on Instagram stories wearing a stunning black and white striped bikini.  She gave her fans an insight into her beauty regime, revealing they had been asking how her hair had got so long.   The beauty said she got hair extensions before her trip in order to beat the dreaded frizz.  She said to the camera: 'I got extensions before I went away specifically. I get mushroom hair but this helps to weigh it down and stops it going outwards. I just spray it with leave-in conditioner.'   
