{ By Jonathan McEvoy for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:29, 1 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/formulaone/article-7640759/Lewis-Hamilton-brink-sixth-title-insists-hungry-more.html }
The props of his life were showing up in Texas as Lewis Hamilton edged ineluctably towards one of the greatest achievements in the history of British sport. Like the old days, father Anthony was in the paddock with his wife Linda — tucking into beans for breakfast — while mother Carmen is joining them to witness the family's golden son become, surely, Formula One world champion for a sixth time. Anthony was a pacing, fretting picture of paternal concern in the early years when the season came down to final races at Sao Paulo. In 2007, Lewis missed out by a point in the most remarkable debut season ever unfurled. In 2008, he won his first championship at the final corner by the same slender margin. Neither Lewis nor Anthony, peas from the same pod, is inclined to count the job done until it is confirmed. But both could afford to be a little more relaxed here at the Circuit of the Americas than back then in Brazil. Hamilton need only finish eighth in Sunday's US Grand Prix — a near certainty if he completes the 56 laps — to be guaranteed the prize for the fifth time in six years, with two races to spare. Here, in the crisp Texan air, he promised many more years of the relentless same — and at Mercedes, not Ferrari. The march goes on and on. This season's championship die was cast early, when Hamilton won six of the first eight races as Ferrari fumbled, and the outcome has never been in doubt since. No fireworks, only four poles, but he has been consistent, which is all he has needed to be. So when the sun sets in the Lone Star state on Sunday, he will have won twice as many titles as the next Briton in the list, Sir Jackie Stewart, and more than anyone but Michael Schumacher, on seven. He will be helped in this quest by his race engineer Pete Bonnington, another of the close band of people he can rely upon more firmly than some of the gadflies who pop in and out of his celebrity life. 'Bono' flew in unexpectedly after a medical procedure kept him away from Mexico last week, where Hamilton husbanded his weary tyres to a fabulous win, the 83rd of his career. 'I never thought I would have five titles,' said Hamilton, 34. 'I am continuing to create dreams that I didn't think I would have. 'If I am able to get the sixth title it would be unreal. I am going to be racing for several more years and I don't think I have hit my peak yet. Believe me, I will be pushing more than ever in these following years.' Referring to the likes of Red Bull's fiery Max Verstappen and Ferrari's icy Charles Leclerc, he said: 'The youngsters are in town. I am planning to be here and to continue to get stronger. 'Nothing is set in stone for my future but I love what I am doing now and don't see any reason to stop. The massive changes in regulations for 2021 present a real challenge and I want to be a pioneer of that era. 'I don't see myself going anywhere else. I love being here at Mercedes. I love being part of the brand and the history. Unlike Schumacher, who would fight dirty when cornered, Hamilton has always competed fairly. He was asked if that mattered to him. In answering, he referenced the man whose eyes he has always felt bearing down on him. 'I am not perfect,' said the champion. 'But I am proud of the respectful way I approach racing. That is not going to change. That is how my dad raised me to race.' 
