{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  16:35, 1 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7640131/Odd-couple-reignite-Bullets-NBL-win.html }
One is a misunderstood hired gun and the other is a five-time NBL champion defying sport science. Together, Taylor Braun and Mika Vukona are the unfashionable duo holding together the Brisbane Bullets' chances of reaching the playoffs. Bullets coach Andrej Lemanis fired back at critics of Braun, the US import and swingman for Brisbane, who face the Illawarra Hawks on Sunday before returning home to host the Sydney Kings next Friday. Former NBL star Shane Heal has been among the knockers of Braun's role in an unorthodox and delicately balanced Bullets roster. Without a premier power forward in the group, the Bullets share the position's responsibilities between several players while young gun Will Magnay develops. Braun is one of those, occasionally switching from the perimeter to match up against genuine bigs. "Anyone who gets the game of basketball knows he's a good basketball player," Lemanis said. "Anyone who says he's not a good basketball player, in my opinion, doesn't understand basketball." Braun had 12 points and four rebounds as the home side ended a three-game losing sequence against the Perth Wildcats in Lemanis' 350th game as a head coach in Brisbane on Friday night. He showed his versatility by guarding Perth's leading scorer this season Bryce Cotton and power forward Nick Kay. "I love Taylor as a basketball player," Lemanis said. "He plays selflessly and in the interests of the group. He's a no fuss, no nonsense guy who's committed to team outcomes." It helps when Vukona defies calf and knee injuries to fulfill an enforcer role under the post. The 37-year-old Kiwi played less than 12 minutes across three quarters against the Wildcats - his longest contribution this season - and his presence releases imports Braun and Lamar Patterson to more creative tasks. "The medical staff continue to remind us that the two injuries he's had ... most mere mortals wouldn't be playing yet," Lemanis said of Vukona. "In true Mika fashion he's done an amazing job of getting himself back on the court and working his way back into the fitness and ability to impact a game how he wants and what we expect from him. "If you talk about the tone of the game being set tonight, I thought Mika helped do that." 
