sport gaa
{ By Sir Clive Woodward for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:04, 1 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7640831/Eddie-Jones-taken-England-depths-despair-World-Cup-final-against-South-Africa.html }
Sport gives and it takes away. Four years ago, fans in England woke up with a hollow feeling. It was World Cup final day at Twickenham but England's participation had effectively ended a month before, when they lost to Australia in their third pool game. It was all pretty depressing. English rugby was not in a good place and the excellence of New Zealand as they put away Australia in that final only rubbed salt into the wounds. Saturday, in contrast, an excited sporting nation holds its breath. Wherever you are watching, this is the other side of sport: the days you dream about. It's been a long journey and one man — Eddie Jones — has been at the heart of it throughout. His appointment, which now looks inspired, was haphazard. Eddie admits that if Japan hadn't scored that last-minute try to record an eye-popping win over South Africa in Brighton in 2015, he probably wouldn't have even been in the frame. If the Stormers in Cape Town had held him to the contract he had just signed, he wouldn't have been available either. Qualified candidates were thin on the ground but his appointment was the turning point for England. By whatever process, he was the right man, right job, right time. It can't have been easy early on and the many pictures of England's 2003 success — a reminder of what Eddie describes as the worst day of his life, as the losing coach of Australia — that hang around the Pennyhill Park hotel and the training complex won't have lessened the pressure. But pressure can be good, especially for competitive individuals such as Eddie. He quickly made his mark and his upbeat, combative personality struck the right chord when England and their supporters were feeling a bit sorry for themselves. On the day he was appointed, I remember Eddie saying loudly and with conviction that England would always play the English way. England would not be copying the All Blacks or Australia, they would not be handling like the French or the Fijians. They would play to their strengths. The joy, four years on, is that England's strengths do not just include the meaty pack which Eddie spoke about on his first day. No, England have backs now to match any in the world and a superior level of fitness that allows them to perform for the full 80 minutes and beyond. His priority in January 2016 was to return England to winning ways and he was pragmatic enough to know he couldn't just sweep through with a new broom. Evolution not revolution. In the short term he needed the older warriors Chris Robshaw, James Haskell, Mike Brown and Dylan Hartley to stay on. He made the latter captain — a tough, no-nonsense hooker who had the ability to bring the squad together — and it was an inspired choice for what he called Phase One. For those first couple of years, Hartley and Co were still the best players in their positions. England quickly picked up a Grand Slam, an historic series win in Australia and went on that world record-equalling run of 18 wins. But the crunch was looming. That side was not going to win the World Cup. Some players were nearing the end and could not play at the tempo required. So began an awkward transition, the only real blip in Eddie's four-year masterplan. It was time to say goodbye to the old brigade — a tough task when they had served so loyally — and bed in the new guys, such as Tom Curry, Sam Underhill, Jamie George, Kyle Sinckler and Henry Slade. Injuries to some of those players and the likes of Mako and Billy Vunipola didn't help as Jones tried to finalise the team shape he wanted in Japan. He remained upbeat, kept the faith, worked at refining his team's approach and suddenly it all came good at the start of this year, when he took them to Dublin to play Ireland. Selection is key for a coach and Eddie is very good at it. He made it clear Danny Cipriani wouldn't be involved and Owen Farrell would captain the side. He boosted George Ford's confidence by making him vice-captain. He kept faith in Manu Tuilagi as he inched back to fitness. He kept faith with Elliot Daly when he didn't always convince at full-back. And he went for broke with the Kamikaze Kids at flanker. All bold moves that have come off. Now England are a great team to watch and a nightmare to play against. Eddie has given us a side to be proud of and to delight in. Saturday morning will be their greatest test, but whatever the result, England are truly a force to be reckoned with again. 
