sport gaa
{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  23:35, 31 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7637399/Dermot-OLeary-Dee-Koppang-sport-matching-sailor-outfits-Jonathan-Ross-Halloween-party.html }
He is back on the small screen hosting The X Factor: Celebrity. And Dermot O'Leary took a break from his busy schedule as he attended Jonathan Ross' annual Halloween party in London with his wife Dee Koppang on Thursday. The TV presenter, 46, and his significant other, 40, dressed as Stranger Things characters Steve (Joe Keery) and Robin (Maya Hawke).  Dermot sported a bright blue sailor top with a red ribbon and a 'Steve' nametag which he paired with matching shorts. The TV host also sported a white sailor hat with 'Ahoy' written on it and a pair of white trainers and matching socks.  Dee wore an almost identical outfit except for her top which featured navy and white stripes while she also added height to her frame with a pair of ankle boots.   Dermot and Dee met while working at a TV production company, with the presenter proposing during a trip in November 2011. They tied the knot in September 2012, a decade after they first met.    Every year, Jonathan transforms his home into a real life house of horrors, and this year was no different as preparations were underway for his party earlier in the day. Builders were seen putting the terrifying decorations up at his London home on Thursday, as the TV presenter was also seen arriving home after a quick outing prior to the event. Getting the entrance ready ahead of the evening's proceedings, planners and builders were seen putting up a creepy clown-themed gate to welcome partygoers. With glowing red eyes and an ominous expression, the gateway was sure to send a chill down guests spines as they made their stylish arrivals in the evening. Inside the driveway, the workers could be seen building a makeshift tunnel to enter the house, while a ghoulish figure was seen besides the door to scare anyone who walked past later on. Jonathan's bashes are so packed full of stars that he has previously enlisted the help of the police to protect both the guests and the public. 
