{ By Will Kelleher For Mailonline   Published:  22:04, 31 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7636583/Rugby-World-Cup-Wales-captain-Alun-Wyn-Jones-shuts-retirement-talk-ahead-New-Zealand-game.html }
A game of goodbyes in Tokyo on Friday for many legends of the sport; Warren Gatland, Steve Hansen, Kieran Read - but Alun Wyn Jones? You must be joking.  A French journalist had the temerity to suggest this third-fourth playoff against New Zealand would be the 34-year-old Welsh captain's last Test. The initial lost-in-translation question was based around the All Blacks being the perfect opponent to finish a career against.  After some back and forth clarifying what he meant the Frenchman pointed at Jones and mentioned the 'r' word - which brought the coldest of stares from the totemic skipper.  'Am I?' said Jones rhetorically to the questions of him retiring. 'When you're in this position, you want to do it for as long as possible. 'I've got a bit longer yet!' Jones is signed up for at least another 18 months with Wales and the Ospreys and despite the desperation of defeat in last week's World Cup semi-final against South Africa there was no question that he would finish the job in Japan before cracking on back home. 'The show goes on, doesn't it?' said Jones. 'It's not the show we wanted but we've got to move on. 'Everyone was champing at the bit to play in this one, to finish it off, because it's the last one we have. 'I've started this journey so I'm going to finish it.' So while this is not the end for him, it is for Gatland with Wales. Twelve years wedded to his adopted nation comes to a close against his homeland - where he is heading back to after this tournament - and the Welsh players are desperate to provide him with a fitting send-off. Neil Jenkins, his skills coach, commented: 'A thank you is not enough as far as I'm concerned. For me he is a God of the game. And reflecting on the Gatland era, Jones said: 'I'm fortunate to be involved in his tenure. 'He's one of if not the most successful northern hemisphere coaches ever. 'Obviously an appearance on Saturday (in the final) has eluded us. 'That would have been the jewel in the crown. 'From where we were in 2007 to where we are now - one quarter-final, two semi-finals, three Grand Slams and a Six Nations championship, it's a far cry from where we were.' Gatland himself spoke about what a 'great chance' this New Zealand match would be for him to see Dillon Lewis, Tomos Williams, Owen Watkin, Owen Lane and Rhys Patchell start. 'We felt it was important we didn't just think about ourselves and think insular,' he said about his team selection picked by a coaching group who will split up after this. 'It was looking at the bigger picture. Hopefully Welsh rugby will benefit from the experience they get.' This was Gatland the giver. There is no need for him to build for a future he will never see, but the New Zealander feels he owes to Wales after all the country has given him. 'I've absolutely loved my time,' he reflected. 'We've been lucky enough to have had a lot of success. There have been some lows and disappointments, but I'm very proud of what we've achieved. 'We've punched massively above our weight and success as a coach isn't always about winning - I think it's about overachieving as a team and I feel we've definitely done that. 'We're a very small playing nation with a lot of history and the biggest memory I have is the smile we've put back on people's faces to wear the red jersey again and to support the team. 'That makes a massive difference to the whole of Wales as they're proud of the team and the players wear it with pride.' Jones appreciates Gatland's selflessness. 'He's fiercely loyal, not only to players but to the country and the job,' said the skipper. 'When the pressure has come on he has stuck to his guns. 'When you talk about change, he has been reluctant to do that at times, and it has paid off. He's had the Midas touch at times. 'It's a credit to him as a person - more than as a rugby coach - that he wants to give the next regime the best chance possible.'  And it is a credit to Jones that when Gatland, Hansen and Read will be waved off in Tokyo his sights are already set on the Six Nations 'I'll see you in February,' he quipped to his French friend as left the room. 
