sport gaa
{ By Joel Adams For Mailonline   Published:  14:19, 31 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7635579/ITV-Studios-accused-corporate-failure-responsibility-Jeremy-Kyle-Show.html }
MPs have accused ITV Studios of 'corporate failure of responsibility' towards Jeremy Kyle's guests after viewing new, behind-the-scenes footage from a whistleblower. The footage shows guests being filmed backstage and in dressing rooms. The Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee, which is investigating reality TV, said the footage 'makes a mockery of the 'aftercare' it has claimed to provide'. The vulnerability of participants on The Jeremy Kyle Show was being 'exploited' for the 'purpose of entertainment', MPs said. A report to the committee pours scorn on the show's so-called 'Director of Aftercare' Graham Stanier, whom the reports authors point out frequently does not know the histories, names, or in one case even the gender of participants. Presenter Kyle would 'sometimes [use] abusive language' which 'could be edited out of the broadcasted show', they added. Expert advisers viewed the footage and expressed deep concerns at a level of 'humiliation, denigration and provocation that a participant is subjected' to. Particular concerns were raised over failures to prioritise the welfare of participants, in one case a young man who is heard punching a wall, they said. The report, written by a clinical psychologist and a professor of sociology, said: 'It is noticeable though that in the broadcast version the participant’s expletives are blanked so that his expletives are still apparent, whilst Mr Kyle’s use of the word “gob-shite” towards the participant is seamlessly edited out.  'Two examples of the participant’s partner defending his character because she feels that they have been “locked up all day” are edited out, as is another of Mr Kyle’s insults “you slouching little idiot”.  'Whilst many of these insults are very much part of the show and potentially expected by the audience, when the couple suggest that they will get engaged Mr Kyle asks the participant, “Have you bought a ring or - stolen one?” to which the participant is quite clearly distressed at being accused of theft.  'This part of the show, where Mr Kyle is accusing the participant of breaking the law, is edited out of the broadcast version.' Committee chairman Damian Collins said: 'It is clear that once the cameras started rolling on The Jeremy Kyle Show there was no safe space for anyone in a highly distressed state, verified by the behind-the-scenes footage passed to the committee by a whistleblower.  'We've seen one contributor who was extremely upset take refuge backstage only to have a camera thrust in his face to capture him holding his head in his hands. 'We've also seen how Jeremy Kyle would use provocative and sometimes abusive language towards participants in the show, and that this could be edited out of the broadcasted show. 'The overriding concern of the reality TV inquiry has been to examine the production companies' duty of care towards people who take part, often at an extremely vulnerable point in their lives. The report to the DCMS committee, written by a clinical psychologist and a sociology professor, found Graham Stanier, the show's supposed Director of Aftercare, did not know what he was doing.  The report stated that he 'seems to have little prior knowledge of the participants' backgrounds, often failing to know their names, and in one example the sex of a baby.  'From a clinical perspective, it is not possible to see evidence of the necessary preparatory work that has been undertaken with respect to the psychological screening and wellbeing of the participants.' It went on: 'The role of 'Director of Aftercare', as witnessed here, seems to lack appropriate boundaries and appears to be undefined.' It concluded that 'the needs of participants are not elevated over the needs of the show in relationships that can only be viewed as exploitative.' 'We've shown this recording to expert advisers who are deeply concerned at ITV's apparent failure to prioritise the welfare of participants over the demands of the show, exploiting their vulnerability for the purpose of entertainment. 'What we've seen demonstrates a failure on the part of ITV Studios in its responsibility towards contributors and makes a mockery of the 'aftercare' it has claimed to provide.' ITV axed The Jeremy Kyle Show in May, following the death of participant Steve Dymond. Fellow ITV show Love Island also came under increased scrutiny over the aftercare it offered following the deaths of former contestants Sophie Gradon and Mike Thalassitis. Presenter Kyle has been asked to appear before MPs but has not done so. His show, which 12 years ago was excoriated as 'human bear baiting' by a judge, was taken off air in May following the suspected suicide of guest Steve Dymond. Responding to the report, ITV said it could not comment on the accusations because the select committee had not shared the whistleblower's footage with them. It added: 'ITV cancelled The Jeremy Kyle Show in May. We have since made clear that we will not bring back the Jeremy Kyle Show, or any other show resembling its format. 'The physical and mental health of everyone we work with is our highest priority and ITV is committed to working across the industry - including with other broadcasters, Pact and our regulator Ofcom - to share best practice and continue to strengthen and evolve our Duty of Care processes. 'The participation of the public in television programmes has been right at the heart of TV since it began. 'We believe that these shows are all the better for the talent, energy and diversity of the members of the public who take part in them and we are committed to continuing to ensure that their welfare is also at the heart of what we do.'   
