sport gaa
{ By Will Kelleher For Mailonline   Published:  10:44, 31 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7634739/South-Africa-coach-Rassie-Erasmus-step-World-Cup-final-England.html }
If South Africa were to win the World Cup on Saturday it would be the most sensational turnaround - from battered Boks to the best in the sport in 26 Tests. Rassie Erasmus, their 47-year-old boss, only came in to sort out a mess last year. He appointed himself, as he is the director of rugby who got rid of the old coach Allister Coetzee - who had overseen a desperate run of results. And he will get rid of himself after Saturday too, moving back upstairs. He was only ever in the role to fire-fight, but is one win from setting the world alight. In 18 months Erasmus has brought the best players playing abroad home, nursed the wounded Springboks back to health and suddenly could be clutching the Webb Ellis Trophy on Saturday night in Yokohama. He has brought a rugby nation back onside too. 'If you look at it,' he said on the eve of the final, 'the only failure would be if we don't pitch up and give everything. 'We started this whole journey 18 months ago and we said the main thing is how we play rugby, and eventually spin-offs off that, when we win, people will start supporting us again and talking about us. 'Then you know South Africans are supporting you again, when they start engaging again. We knew that it would be a process and we knew that the scoreboard at the end of the day would count. 'For me, it's an emotional one in the sense that I didn't think 25 Test matches will go that quickly. 'It's wonderful to be here. It's sad that it's only two days, and then it is all over. 'But hell, I must say, me being involved again gives me such hope for what rugby can do for South Africa. 'I was one of those guys three years ago who said "Let's just play, boys, let's just play. Stop talking about this hope thing. Rugby is rugby, and let's just play". 'But I've totally changed my mind. I believe if we play the right way, and with the passion, and the people can see it, it just helps people forget about their problems. 'Whatever happens on Saturday, we have to make sure we use this for the next four, five, six, seven years, that it doesn't get lost again, the positivity, what we get out of Saturday.' Perhaps more than any other nation a World Cup win can temporarily bind South Africa together. Erasmus admitted that when appointing the Boks' first black captain Siya Kolisi last summer he did not realise the significance of the selection. But now the boy from the township - who could not afford a television so watched the 2007 win in a tavern - is 80 minutes from lifting the World Cup and providing the Rainbow Nation with another symbolic moment to match Nelson Mandela handing Francois Pienaar the World Cup in 1995, he gets it. 'My plan never was this big thing to get the country behind us,' he added. 'It was sudden, and I was caught a bit off - maybe a bit naive - in thinking that this would be such a massive thing for him. 'I was a bit naive, because the whole emotional things that went around that in South Africa, about having the first black captain for the Springboks, certainly caught Siya off guard, it caught me off guard. 'And I thought his game suffered a little bit in the first few games. Then he got better and better, and we always knew he was a great player. 'When that got better, he got an injury, and when he got back from the injury, then he had to be captain again, and we had to get him slowly back into the mix for the World Cup. 'But the timing is great now. He is firing fit to have a good final. 'It's his 50th test match, and it is fitting and a wonderful occasion for a guy to be the captain, the first black captain - now it's also sunk into me. I understand how big it is, and I am not so naive any more. 'It is a wonderful story, and for him to handle those emotional extras, is just wonderful. 'Well done him.' And by Erasmus too - the man who put the spring back into the Boks. 
