sport gaa
{ By Sophie Tanno For Mailonline   Published:  16:49, 30 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7631323/New-York-lawmakers-consider-ban-tackle-football-12s.html }
New York lawmakers are considering placing a ban on tackle football for children under the age of 12 after a Boston University study found that children who play tackle football may develop cognitive problems.  Advocates of the ban put forward their argument at a New York State Assembly's health committee hearing at 10am on Tuesday morning in Manhattan, with arguments centering around fears of brain damage and stunted cognitive growth in later life.  The proposed bill is named after John Mackey, a former NFL player from Long Island who died in 2011 after developing chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) due to repeated head injuries.  The health committee heard doctors and other medical experts explain how the sport can be damaging to children.  A former college football player suffering from early dementia was among the voices calling for the ban.  Testifying on Tuesday, T.J. Abraham, 42, now works as a doctor and said his brain damage has significantly impacted his career as a medical practitioner as well as his everyday life.   Dr. Chris Nowinski of the Concussion Legacy Foundation weighed in during the hearing.  'I am horrified by the rate at which we have diagnosed former football players, including friends of mine, with a degenerative brain disease, chronic traumatic encephalopathy or CTE,' CBS New York quoted him as saying.  However opponents of the bill, which includes USA Football, insisted there was not a convincing scientific argument.  'The simple truth is we don't know why some get CTE and others don't,' said Dr. Mark Herceg of the Phelps Concussion Program.  The proposed legislation is yet to obtain a Senate sponsor and is not expected to be implemented in the immediate future.  A recent study by Boston University linked tackle football to brain problems and found that playing youth tackle football may lead to earlier onset of cognitive, behavior, and mood symptoms in later life. 
