sport gaa
{ By Brett Lackey For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  14:40, 29 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7625959/Teacher-admits-having-sex-two-boys-car-sending-explicit-videos-Snapchat.html }
A former teacher has admitted to having sex with two boys in the back seat of her car and sending them explicit videos on Snapchat.  One of the boys, aged under 16, started receiving text messages from the woman in 2017 offering him rides to their school in New Zealand and chatting about sport.  The woman, in her 30s, would spend lunchtimes with the student and they would text everyday - building up a relationship of trust that eventually became flirty, a summary of police facts stated, according to Stuff.  One lunchtime, the woman invited the boy for a drive in her car to a nearby car park, where the teacher told the student she would fix his poor attendance record.  They then got into the back seat where the woman sat on the boys lap, kissed him, and gave him oral sex, the summary stated.   During another lunch break the woman drove the teenager to a nearby sporting field car park, where they had sex in the back seat.  The pair would meet regularly over the next few months for sexual activities in her car - often as the woman waited to pick her child up from school on a Friday.  The woman would also take explicit photos of herself on Snapchat and then send them to the boy or video call him.  Towards the end of 2018 the boy invited another student into an online chat with the woman.  The next day she picked up both the boys in her car, they drove to a nearby car park and the three of them had oral sex in the back seat.  She then began meeting the second boy separately on several occasions for oral sex.  Eventually when the first boy wanted to end their relationship the woman refused, pleading with him and sending nude pictures of herself.  The boy contacted police and the woman was interviewed and eventually charged.  The woman admitted to seven charges of sexual relations with minors and two charges of sending sexual material to minors in court on Tuesday.  The woman was remanded on bail for sentencing on December 17.  If the woman is sentenced to jail her name would then be added to the Child Sex Offender register under the Child Protection Act.  Her lawyer requested name suppression be continued on the case, which police did not oppose.    
