{ By Luke Augustus for MailOnline    Published:  13:40, 29 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7626027/Nigel-Owens-referee-England-vs-South-Africa-Rugby-World-Cup-2019-final-calf-injury.html }
Injuries are sadly part-and-parcel of sport and one has robbed the man who is widely-considered the best referee on the planet from officiating the upcoming Rugby World Cup final. Nigel Owens will play no part in Saturday's showpiece between England and South Africa due to a calf injury. As reported by the Telegraph, the 48-year-old suffered the injury during the first half of England's 19-7 semi-final win over New Zealand at the weekend. Despite the problem, the Welshman - who had overseen the last World Cup final and the opening match of this year's tournament - was able to carry on refereeing after receiving some treatment. However, he hasn't recovered sufficiently enough to be considered for England's clash against South Africa. Instead that honour goes to Jerome Garces. Garces, the first Frenchman to whistle a Rugby World Cup final, is joined by Romain Poite (France) and Ben O'Keeffe (New Zealand) as assistant referees and Ben Skeen (New Zealand) as TMO. Garces' appointment does not come without controversy, after he was widely criticised for his handling of South Africa's 19-16 semi-final win over Wales. England have enjoyed a good record with Garces as ref in the Eddie Jones era, losing just twice in seven Tests since 2016. Those came against New Zealand at Twickenham in 2018, and the Ireland match in 2017 which ended their 18-match unbeaten run. Garces also officiated England’s 40-16 thrashing of Australia in the quarters. For his part, Garces thanked his colleagues as he accepted the honour of officiating the final on Tuesday morning. 'I am honoured and delighted to be appointed to referee the final,' he said. 'It is a dream as a referee, but this is a team sport, and as a team of four, we will be out there to do the best for the teams, the fans, the sport, but also the entire match officials team, selectors and support team, who have worked so hard over the last four years.' It will be Garces' 11th World Cup match, and his 55th test match as a referee. South Africa have only won two of their last 11 test matches refereed by Garces, although one of them was the 19-16 semi-final victory. 
