sport gaa
{ By Harry Slavin For Mailonline   Published:  10:29, 28 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7621439/Harry-Redknapp-taken-hospital-BT-Sport-earpiece-removed.html }
Harry Redknapp was forced into a hospital trip following one of his recent punditry appearances on BT Sport, after his earpiece became stuck. Redknapp was a guest on BT Sport for Tottenham's trip to the Amex Stadium for their game against Brighton earlier this month.  The former West Ham and Tottenham boss, who makes regular appearances both pitchside and in the studios for the sports channel, was forced to make the trip to A & E after the production team struggled to remove the plastic, even with pliers.  The plastic was eventually dislodged at the hospital and Redknapp returned to complete his punditry duties. Redknapp was quoted in The Sun as saying: 'I came in and they put an earpiece in me, and I took it out, but a piece of it broke off and got stuck in my ear. 'So I ended up in the local hospital trying to get it out because as the guys were trying to get it out, the deeper they were pushing it in. 'Anyway, it's out now.' According to The Athletic, the incident has now panicked those at the broadcaster into changing their policy on the audio aids. The incident was not the first time Harry Redknapp has had to have something removed from his ear. Harry had to have a cricket pulled out from his ear by Medic Bob after one got stuck in his ear during a Bushtucker Trial on last year's I'm A Celebrity show. BT have now banned all guests and pundits from using regular earpieces, with only moulded versions now permitted to be worn.  The incident was not the first time Redknapp had to have something removed from his ear. En route to being crowned king of the jungle in I'm A Celebrity last year, the former football manager had to have a cricket pulled out of his ear by Medic Bob after it got stuck in there during a trial.  Redknapp has not managed a club since being sacked by Birmingham just five months into his reign in 2017.  The 72-year-old is not expected to return to management, having announced his retirement two years ago. Redknapp, who features in a number of TV adverts as well as regularly appearing as a pundit, did admit he would take an advisory role at a football club at the time of his retirement. 
