{ By William Cole For Mailonline   Published:  09:31, 28 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7621045/Indiana-grader-breaks-tears-reads-thank-note-football-coach.html }
This is the beautiful moment a 6-year-old boy broke down in tears while thanking his football coach for helping him love the sport again. Jayden, a first-grade student at Charles Elementary School wanted to surprise his coach with a gift and a heartfelt letter for his hard work during the season. But the moment, recorded on the school's playing fields in Richmond, Indiana, is made all the more sweet when Jayden becomes overwhelmed with emotion. In the video, he presents coach Richard Nelloms with a mug that reads 'A good coach can change the game. A great coach can change a life.' 'Thanks, buddy!' Coach Nelloms says while embracing Jayden, clearly thankful for the gift. But that wasn't the only thing Jayden had for his coach. 'Hold on, he's got a little note he wrote you,' Jayden's mother, Courtney Wigginton, can be heard saying as she records the surprise. The little boy is then given his heartwarming letter he wrote for Nelloms, and reads it aloud with confidence. 'Dear Coach Richard, you have been the greatest coach of my life. I love you Richard,' Jayden reads, but his voice begins to quiver. 'You help me love football again. Thank you for being my favorite coach. Love, Jayden.' He finishes the letter before quickly breaking down in tears, only for Nelloms to embrace him again.  On his Facebook page, Nelloms shared that while he was able to hold back tears when Jayden presented him with the letter, he did break down upon rewatching the video. 'I held it together when Jayden was reading to me. But after I watched it, I couldn't hold back my tears,' he says. 'This was something that I felt so lucky to have an opportunity to do ... I felt blessed with the chance to be myself and teach my players how to have fun no matter what.'  Jayden's mother Courtney posted about the incredible response she had received when the special moment went viral. 'I just wanna take a moment from all of this chaos and say, our hearts are overwhelmed! 'The love and support Jayden, Rich and myself have received is unreal and I can't say thank you enough.' 
