sport gaa
{ By Lauren Fruen For Dailymail.com and Reuters   Published:  17:00, 27 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7619147/Usain-Bolt-ready-play-NFL-Patriots-Packers-come-calling.html }
Usain Bolt says he 'is ready' to play in the NFL if the Patriots or Packers' quarterback Aaron Rodgers ever came calling.  The Olympic sprint champion, 33, told TMZ he would consider taking up American football for the right team after he tied the quickest ever NFL 40-yard dash with no warm-up and wearing tracksuit and trainers.  When probed what it would take for him to play Bolt replied: 'If the Patriots or Aaron Rodgers call me. If they call me, I'm ready.' The eight-time Olympic gold medalist is also confident about his chances of success, saying 'of course' when asked if he would win a championship with the Patriots.  In February this year Bolt stepped off the street and equaled the combine record for a 40-yard dash, running in 4.22 seconds at a Super Bowl fan experience event. Packers fan Bolt told TMZ he 'definitely thinks' Rodgers is the 'best of the generation', adding: 'He doesn't have the right amount of wide receivers right now.  'If he had the right players with him I think he would be way better but he is doing great with what he has.' When asked if Rodgers is better than Tom Brady Bolt replied: 'It's tight.'  Wearing sweatpants and sneakers, the 100 and 200 meters world record holder matched the time set by Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver John Ross at the 2017 NFL combine in February.  Potential draft picks are put through a number of drills such as sprinting, lifting weights and how high they can jump at the event.     He told The LA Times he 'got a lot of offers to go to the NFL' ten years ago.  Speaking in September Bolt added: 'It was something that scared me at the time. I think it's better now. Back then, it was really a rough sport. If it was like it is now, I think I would probably transition and try to play in the NFL.'  Bolt, who retired from competitive sprinting following the 2017 world championships, has been looking for ways to use his speed dabbling in several sports. The eight-time Olympic gold medalist has tried cricket and last year had a tryout with the Central Coast Mariners of Australia's top flight soccer league but could not agree on a contract.    He played 95 minutes for the A-League outfit in two trial games and scored twice against weak opposition.  Several sprinters have made the jump to the NFL, including Bob Hayes who won the 100m gold medal for the United States at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics.  The Jamaican joined the party in Atlanta as the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams prepared to meet in the Super Bowl earlier this year.   
