sport gaa
{ By Ben Miller For Mailonline   Published:  11:54, 26 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugby-world-cup-2019/article-7616327/Twitter-congratulates-England-incredible-Rugby-World-Cup-semi-final-victory-against-New-Zealand.html }
As rugby fans around the country celebrated England's stunning 19-7 Rugby World Cup win over New Zealand on Saturday morning, leading figures from across the worlds of sport, politics and entertainment were quick to share their joy on one of the most dramatic days in English sporting history. The England football team, Arsenal and Crystal Palace revelled in England's gripping victory over the holders, joined by the likes of Prime Minister Boris Johnson, comedian Jack Whitehall and ex-Liverpool striker Michael Owen. Pundit Chris Kamara took to social media to salute Eddie Jones' side's remarkable victory, echoed by a host of rugby favourites including former England stars Ugo Monye and Phil Vickery. Johnson, who had kept a watchful eye on a game that saw thousands of fans pack pubs ahead of the 9am UK kick-off time, applauded England's 'immense effort' and said he was looking forward to the final against Wales or South Africa next Saturday. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said he hoped the final would be against Wales, praising England's 'incredible team performance' and 'hard-fought victory' against the All Blacks. Owen told his following of almost four million people that the scoreline 'flattered the All Blacks', gushing: 'Brilliant performance. Awesome display England.' Kamara was equally effusive in his praise, calling England 'truly magnificent', and Palace and Arsenal - both in Premier League action this weekend - called out their fans among the England rugby squad. The Eagles singled out England starter Elliot Daly for special congratulations, while Arsenal cheered Saracens flanker Maro Itoje. Mike Tindall, who won the Rugby World Cup with England in 2003, posted a selfie on Instagram with former All Black Dan Carter from the stadium in Yokahama, admitting that their friendship would be on hold during the match. Former All Black John Afoa, currently turning out for Premiership side Bristol, accepted he would be teased over the result.  Afoa insisted he still believed his nation could come back into the match with 10 minutes remaining, while former England cricketer Phil Tufnell called the game 'amazing'.  Comedian Whitehall, who once took part in a rugby session alongside former England Rugby World Cup winners Martin Johnson, Lawrence Dallaglio and Jason Robinson, said he was heading to the airport for the final, adding: 'What a dream.' Another hero of the 2003 side, Phil Vickery, told England to 'go and finish the job.' The MasterChef champion tweeted: 'To say I'm proud is an understatement.' England's credentials had been questioned by some critics before the semi-final, but they won new admirers in avenging the defeats they suffered against New Zealand in 1991, 1995 and 1999. Former Scotland star Jim Hamilton, who is now a high-profile rugby broadcaster, tweeted: 'Eddie Jones, clown or genius? Well the question has been answered.'  Former All Black Neema Tialata said: 'What a Test match!! Fair play to England.'   
