{ By Sarah Holt For Mailonline   Published:  12:53, 25 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/travel_news/article-7610129/Rev-downtime-new-20m-Silverstone-Experience-Northamptonshire.html }
You're meant to take your foot off the throttle in your downtime, but a new visitor attraction opening in Northamptonshire today would prefer you to step on it. Seven years in the making, The Silverstone Experience is located inside a restored World War Two hangar, on the same site as the Silverstone race circuit itself.  It aims to immerse visitors in the world of motor racing - from the past to the present. A trip to the attraction starts with a pre-show called The Grid, which offers an insight into 70 years of motor racing. Then there are multiple interactive sections to explore. Highlights include the Tech Lab, where a series of hands-on exhibits teach visitors about suspension, aerodynamics and engines.  Visitors will be able to adjust the settings on a scale wind tunnel to understand aerodynamics, try out pedals to compare the force required to slow down an F1 car compared to a family car, turn a wheel to find out about gear ratios, squeeze a motorcycle brake to see how temperature goes up as speed goes down and turn a tyre to learn about F1 tyre compounds.   Then there's the special effects cinema, which will show a film called The Ultimate Lap of Silverstone, which splices together 16 of the most iconic Silverstone moments into a single lap.  Other big draws include a replica race car that visitors can sit in and an interactive area where they can learn about all the things that go on during a race weekend, have a go at commentating on a grand prix, and meet a hologram of motor sport legend Sir Jackie Stewart.  One of the most unusual interactive exhibits at the attraction will be a crawl space that visitors can squeeze through. Here they'll find out about the legend of the escape tunnel that was rumoured to run underneath the Silverstone site before it became a race track.  A huge collection of racing memorabilia will also be on display at the attraction. Racing fans will be able to see cars like Nigel Mansell’s 1992 Williams FW14B, helmets worn by race greats like Michael Schumacher and Damon Hill, and a range of trophies, race programmes and hundreds of photographs.  Visitors will also be able to head outside to a Heritage Track Trail where they'll get to stand on the start line of the first-ever British Grand Prix.  The Silverstone Experience will be open daily from 10am to 6pm. Advance tickets cost £10 for children, £20 for adults and £16 for concessions.    
