{ By Ian Randall For Mailonline   Published:  00:01, 25 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7610169/Scientists-competitive-athletes-likely-suspend-sense-right-wrong-win.html }
Athletes who focus too much on competition are likely to suspend their sense of right and wrong to win — doing things they would normally not — a study has found. Researchers found that many competitors treat sport as a completely different world, one in which conventional moral responsibilities no longer apply. In addition, the team found that ultra-competitive coaches who use coercive techniques can also incite antisocial behaviour in their players.  Scroll down for video Dr Maria Kavussanu and colleagues from the University of Birmingham and Sultan Qaboos University in Oman reviewed 27 existing studies into both 'pro social' and 'antisocial' behaviours in sport. The team found that athletes who focus on the outcome of a match or race, solely to earn a ‘reward’ or avoid ‘punishment’, are more likely to behave antisocially to win. Ultra-competitive coaches can also bring out the worst in sportspeople — making them feel inferior or guilty if they do not act in particular, mostly anti-social, ways. This negative behaviour can go on to impact both opponents and teammates. 'Certain conditions in sport may lead athletes who are relatively upstanding individuals in everyday life to suspend their sense of right and wrong when they step into a competitive sporting arena,' said Dr Kavussanu. 'In the pursuit of victory, coaches may ask players to cheat or injure their opponents, and players may see their teammates doing this.' 'It may be easier to morally disengage in sport because responsibility for one’s inappropriate actions can be displaced onto others.' The team dubbed this concept ‘bracketed reality’ to explain how athletes can exhibit less mature patterns of moral behaviour when competing than in everyday life. Similarly, athletes tend to demonstrate their superior ability more when taking part in a competition than while training — a phenomenon known as ‘ego orientation’. 'Prosocial’ behaviours — like supporting, congratulating and encouraging teammates — typically result in better efforts and results. On the other hands antisocial behaviour among teammates can cause stress and burnout. Repeatedly expressing frustration at a teammate’s poor performance can leave that athlete unable to contribute to team goals and less able to cope with the demands of their sport, the study found. The full findings of the study were published in the International Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology. Many high-profile sport stars have spoke openly about battles with mental health.  Mental health in ex and current football players has been thrust into the spotlight following the death of Gary Speed and the issues faced by Stan Collymore.  Other examples, including Robert Enke, Frank Bruno and Marcus Trescothick, show that mental health is relevant to everyone, even at the elite level. The FA says mainstream clubs should be comfortable including people with mental health problems, in training, matches and socially.  It claims it wants to make coaches and team mates confident and comfortable about talking about mental health problems, in the same way that people discuss physical injuries. 'Mental health problems can affect anyone – footballers too. I'm pledging to support Time to Change… It's ok to talk about mental health,' said Tony Adams, England and Arsenal footballing icon.  The PFA operates a 24-hour phone line for players to call which offers complete confidentiality.  There were 160 different cases in 2016 where players approached the FA for help with mental health.  That number rose to 403 in 2017 year and figures revealed to the Guardian show more than 250 players used the service during the first six months of 2018.  
