{ By Chris Pleasance for MailOnline    Published:  08:55, 7 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7331317/Irish-boy-15-dies-plunging-50ft-wall-Lanzarote-holiday-family.html }
An Irish teenager has died after falling 50ft off a wall on the Spanish island of Lanzarote.  Mikey Leddy, 15, from Navan, Co Meath, was pronounced dead on Tuesday evening at a hospital in Arrecife after a fall in the holiday resort of Puerto del Carmen. Mikey, who was on holiday with his family when the tragedy unfolded in the early hours of Monday morning, died of severe head injuries. Tributes have since flooded in for the teenager, who was described as a 'likeable lad' with 'loads of ability'. Local Fianna Fail councillor Padraig Fitzsimons, who knew Mikey through the local Gaelic sports club, said the community in Navan was shocked by his death.  'Mikey was a great footballer. He played for Navan O'Mahony's and Johnstown soccer club,' he said. 'He was the kind of lad who would be strong and well-able, you would want him on your team. A popular figure - just a good lad.' 'It's rough,' he added. 'One of our own is gone... we're all devastated - as a community, as a club... it's very hard.' Fellow Fianna Fail councillor Tommy Reilly also expressed his shock. 'The whole town is devastated with the dreadful news that he's passed away,' he said, adding that the family was well-respected and well-known in the town of Navan because they are involved in sporting organisations. 'The town is devastated by it, actually, that a young guy like this, just out with the family on holidays, can lose his life so simple,' he added. In a Facebook post, Mikey's local GAA club Navan O'Mahony said: 'Navan O'Mahony's wish to express our profound sadness and shock at the tragic passing of Mikey Leddy. 'Our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with the Leddy family and Mikey's many friends and teammates. Funeral arrangements later. Ar Dheis De go raibh a anam dilis.' Johnstown Football Club described the young footballer as a 'champion' with a 'fighting spirit'. In a tweet, the club wrote: 'It is with great sadness our own Mikey Leddy has passed away this afternoon, the tragic event that has happened in the last 48 hours has shocked us all. 'We would ask that everyone remembers Mikey for the champion he was and his fighting spirit. He will be with us in our minds and spirit forever.' Local Fine Gael councillor Yemi Adenuga also expressed her sadness. In a tweet, she wrote: 'Thanks 4 ur prayers 4 d young Irish lad who feel in Lanzarote. Sad 2 say 15yr Navan boy Michael Leddy passed this evening. May God grant d family d fortitude 2 bear this irreparable loss. My prayers r with them at this sad time. Keep them in ur prayers pls.' The Department of Foreign Affairs said it is aware of the case and is providing consular assistance. A local police investigation is under way. Located on Lanzarote's east coast, Puerto del Carmen is a popular destination for Irish holidaymakers. 
