sport gaa
{ By Brittany Chain For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  13:50, 20 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7593189/Melbourne-woman-visits-doctor-suffering-period-cramps-learn-pregnant-labour.html }
A young woman learned she was pregnant hours before she gave birth when she visited the doctor thinking she was experiencing regular cramps. Caity Mason found out she was 10 centimetres dilated and about to have her first baby when she went to her local GP complaining of period pain on January 21. The 25-year-old from Melbourne was taken straight to hospital, where she gave birth to her son, Flynn, just hours later. She was 35 weeks and five days along at the time.   Ms Mason told Daily Mail Australia she was initially 'in complete shock.' 'I didn't know if I could do it [give birth],' she said. 'Especially with no notice. I'm used to always being overly organised.' Her body hadn't changed at all in the months leading up to the discovery. She said she hadn't gone up a dress size and still fit comfortably into her bras.  Ms Mason said most shocking of all was that her routine hadn't changed. 'I was still playing netball and going to the gym most mornings,' she said.   Ms Mason told The Sunday Project she had no idea she was expecting, adding she'd been competing in rough sports, drinking and partying in the weeks leading up to the birth. 'It wasn't even 24 hours notice,' she said. 'I was told I was pregnant about 1.30 in the morning and I was in active labour later that morning.' She got a regular period for four days every month and suffered no morning sickness.    'I was in complete and utter shock, it was just like, ''how far along am I?'' 'Clearly far along, because I hadn't been with anyone for a very long time,' she said. Ms Mason said just weeks prior to the unexpected birth, she was ringing in the New Year with friends and celebrating her birthday. 'I was drinking copious amounts of alcohol, I was partying and doing wake boarding and playing rough netball... all things you shouldn't be doing,' she said.   While she doesn't regret a single thing, Ms Mason does feel a little like she missed out on a 'regular pregnancy' that most women experience. 'When I look back, I do feel like I missed out on the ultrasound pictures and all the timeline photos,' she told Daily Mail Australia.  'We have our days but he's such a perfect little boy. He came into my life for a reason.' Ms Mason was forced to tell Flynn's father she'd had his baby after the birth. He decided he did not want to be a part of Flynn's life.   'I just worry that sometimes maybe I'm not enough for Flynn,' she said. 'When I look at other people's lives and they do have dads, Flynn doesn't have that and I don't want him to miss out at all. 'Father's Day was very tough.'   While the prospect of carrying a baby for nine months without knowing seems unthinkable to some, it is far more common than it appears. Professor Michael Permezel, the president of The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, previously told Sydney Morning Herald the circumstances are 'uncommon without being rare'.  Of 6,000 patients his hospital treated each year during childbirth, two or three involved women who didn't know they were pregnant.   Similarly, Erin Bussenschutt was 21 years old and 38 weeks along when she visited her local doctor hoping to receive the contraceptive implanon. The process required a blood test, at which point the doctor informed her that he couldn't insert the implanon because she was already pregnant. Ms Bussenschutt gave birth the next day.  'He gave me a new purpose and a new reason for making something more of myself and he made me realise that there are more things in life that are important than what I was stressing about,' she said. Four years on, Ms Bussenschutt is expecting with her new partner. She said she recognised her symptoms within weeks this time around and is 'far more prepared' to welcome her second child.  
