sport gaa
{ By Thomas Duff For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:17, 20 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7592659/Natalie-Joyce-vows-return-bodybuilding.html }
The former wife of disgraced National's MP, Barnaby Joyce has vowed to return to bodybuilding in the near future.  Natalie Joyce, 49, came fourth in the First Timers and Miss Fitness Model Momma categories of the North Coast Classic bodybuilding competition in April.  The mum-of-four hasn't competed since but says she wants to get back on the stage and show off her hard work.  Ms Joyce pursued bodybuilding after her husband's affair with his former staffer, Vikki Campion. Mr Joyce now has two children with Ms Campion. When asked by The Sydney Morning Herald about her next venture into bodybuilding, she said: 'I really don't think anyone is that interested in it.' But her last outing showed the country she wasn't just the former wife of a disgraced politician which inspired many women and she quickly became a feminist hero.  'In June last year, I looked in the mirror and thought, ''I'm not going to let someone else's appalling behaviour derail me,'' she said.  'So I joined the local gym, and I've never looked back. And I've always wanted to compete in a bodybuilding comp.' Her venture into bodybuilding began 12 months after her former husband of 25 years resigned from his position as the leader of the National Party when news broke that he had fathered a child with his mistress.  The new couple asked for privacy regarding the matter but then appeared on the television program, Sunday Night, in exchange for a large sum of money.   Ms Joyce  and her daughters Bridgette, 21, Julia, 20, Caroline, 18, and Odette, 15, struggled to cope with Barnaby's infidelity. 'This situation is devastating on many fronts,' she told The Guardian at the time.  'For my girls, who are affected by the family breakdown, and for me as a wife of 24 years, who placed my own career on hold to support Barnaby through his political life.'    
