{ By Natalie Corner For Mailonline   Published:  10:18, 18 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7587381/Young-rugby-fan-9-born-one-arm-proves-bullies-wrong-taunts-playing.html }
A nine-year-old talented rugby fan born with one arm silenced bullies who taunted him for his love of playing the sport by scoring multiple tries during a match. Shay Dunster, from South Wales, wanted to quit the sport he's loved since a little boy after cruel bullies told him his disability was the reason his team lost. But appearing on Good Morning Britain, Shay melted hearts as he told how he didn't quit and went on to take part in a rugby union festival in Cardiff scoring eleven tries, and receiving 'Player of the Tournament' accolade. Shay said of not letting his disability stop him: 'I did think I can’t do it but then I started playing and I could.' Shay, who was born missing his left limb below the elbow, plays for the Trefil Under 10s based in Blaenau Gwent. The youngster started with tag rugby three years ago and has now moved up to touch, which is more physical. He added on GMB that so far he was enjoying the new level: 'I haven’t been tackling for long, but it's okay.' Shay's mother Donna said with a lot of encouragement he's kept playing despite the bullies: 'They said the reason team was losing was because he has one arm.' His father Michael also shared how proud he was to have a talented rugby player in the family, and told of how he promised his son £2 for every try.  Shay's coach Sam Stradlin previously told the BBC: 'His father said that he'd give him £2 a try and I know for a fact he had to go take out a mortgage to pay him.' His cousin Lois Morgan, who first shared a tweet about Shay, gushed about how proud she was in the same BBC short film. 'He was going to quit because he didn't think he was good enough. I begged him and took him out training to show him he could actually do it. 'He's half my size and half my age, but I look up to him to him a lot.' Lois had written of Shay in a tweet: 'My cousin is 9 and has been bullied and told he can’t play rugby, because he has only one arm.. he hasn’t done bad scoring 11 tries today at @whitchurchrfcMJ festival! My little superstar.' It received a huge response including messages of support from Welsh international players Rhys Webb, Ken Owens and Bradley Davies.  Shay said: 'I was worried that I wouldn't be able to get the grip and that I'd get hurt.  'People said I couldn't play rugby because I've only got one arm. But in that match I just proved them wrong. And I proved myself wrong that I could do it.' GMB had one last surprise for Shay, a message from his favourite player Shane Williams, who has experienced adversity of his own at 5'5, but is one of the highest scoring for any Wales international. He told Shay: 'I know what it's like to be told you cant do something but the best thing to do is shut them up by showing them on the rugby field.' Good Morning Britain airs weekdays on ITV from 6am 
