{ By Rachel Mcgrath For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:18, 18 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7586951/David-Harbour-Lily-Allen-make-red-carpet-debut-couple-Champions-Change-Gala-NYC.html }
They have just gone public with their romance in the past week. But now it's out there, David Harbour and Lily Allen are ready to make their red carpet debut as a couple. The American actor, 44, and the British singer, 34, arrived together for the Champions for Change Gala in New York City on Thursday night. On Monday, Allen had posted to her Instagram that she was leaving her native UK to live in New York 'till after Brexit'. She was already in the Big Apple where she was seen with the Stranger Things star after his hosting gig on SNL last Saturday night. The pair were also snapped packing on the PDA on an outing in the city on Monday. While their appearance at the charity fundraiser Thursday was more muted, they seemed relaxed and happy in each other's company knowing the eyes of the world were on them. Allen chose a pretty patterned ankle-length frock with half sleeves for her night out. The colorful floral-themed outfit had a Peter Pan collar with pink tie and she added a pair of black suede boots. The pop star styled her short dark hair with a half topknot and accessorized with drop diamond earrings.  Harbour, who also sported a half topknot, went with an all black ensemble of two-piece suit and buttoned up shirt with shiny slip-on shoes.  Allen and Harbour were first seen in public together in August when they were spotted enjoying a night out at the theatre in London. They also were seen on a date at the Hughie Fury vs Alexander Povetkin boxing match at London's O2. Allen confirmed they are a couple on her Instagram Stories by posting images of the actor hosting SNL, and alongside a close-up of his bulging biceps she added the word 'Mine'.  Allen has two daughters aged seven and six whom she shares with ex-husband Sam Cooper.  Harbour previously dated Fantastic Beasts star Alison Sudol with whom he was last seen in April at the premiere of his movie Hellboy.  
