sport gaa
{ By Laura Lambert For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:32, 16 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/racing/article-7581365/AP-McCoy-urges-racing-authorities-ensure-sport-stays-terrestrial-TV-talks-drag-on.html }
AP McCoy has called on the racing authorities to show 'enough brains' to ensure that the sport remains on terrestrial television. Negotiations over the new broadcasting contract are dragging on and the retired 20-time champion jockey is concerned for the future of the sport if the current offer from ITV is not accepted. The ratings for racing have grown since ITV took over from Channel 4 in 2017 and McCoy told Sportsmail it would be a 'disaster' if the sport goes off terrestrial TV. 'It is the most important decision in horseracing,' said McCoy. 'I remember when I was a kid watching showjumping all the time. 'Kids wouldn't know the name of a showjumper any more. I wouldn't even know where to look for it (on TV). 'You worry about racing going the same way. I couldn't even contemplate it not being on terrestrial TV.' ITV is looking to sign a three-year extension from 2021-23, with their offer thought to be £30-40million. But Ascot is understood to be stalling the deal because they stand to receive less money than in the current contract. Delia Bushell, who picks up the reins as Jockey Club chief executive on Friday, has also taken an interest in the contract. McCoy, who was helping open Peter O'Sullevan House, a new Injured Jockeys Fund rehabilitation centre in Newmarket, insisted his views were not impacted by the 15 days a year he works for ITV. 'It is irrelevant,' he said. 'If I never worked another day of my life on TV it wouldn't bother me.' Asked if he would consider lobbying Ascot or the Jockey Club, he said: 'I would hope the powers that be have enough brains to realise it's not about the money, it's about what is good for the sport in the long term. 'I'd dread to think I have to even think about lobbying. I can't even believe they are contemplating it.' With the Champions League tender having been sent out last week, sources have raised concerns that ITV may choose to focus on bidding for those rights and racing could lose out. ITV declined to comment. 
