{ By Lauren Ferri For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  15:52, 16 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7579727/Ash-Barty-wins-Sportswoman-Year-Australian-Women-Sport-Awards-b-Womens-Health.html }
Sport's biggest female stars stepped out in style on Wednesday for Women's Health magazine's Women In Sport awards in Sydney. Female athletes donned their best outfits as they let down their hair and celebrated the year in sport on Wednesday night. While tennis superstar Ash Barty did not attend the event, the world number one took out the coveted Sportswoman of the Year award.   A week after becoming the first female tennis player to win The Don at the Sport Australia Hall Of Fame awards in Melbourne, Barty also scooped the Women In Sport Moment of the Year for her French Open win in June.  Barty thanked Women's Health via video link: 'I'm very fortunate to be nominated among so many other empowering women in Australian sport and to come away with the win is a bonus.' Women Sport Australia communications director Louise Evans saluted Barty as a champion who was gracious in victory and defeat, and the women's cricket team for their domination on the global stage. 'Let's celebrate their amazing success, applaud their deserved achievements and not forget the fight for pay parity and equal media is ongoing,' Evans said. The Australian women's cricketers took out Team of the Year for the second consecutive time, for being the current No. 1 in both One Day International rankings and T20 Internationals. Cricket-team captain Meg Lanning won the Leadership Legend award after becoming the first player to score 13 One Day International centuries.  Paratriathlete Lauren Parker took home the Women in Sport award for Comeback of the Year after a triumphant year.  Parker returned to competing after a slew of health issues and setbacks earlier this year, but remarkably won two gold medals in just seven days, winning a world title and a World Cup gold medal within a week. Paralympic CEO and Canterbury Bulldogs chair Lynne Anderson was awarded the Person of Sporting Influence award.  Retired Netballer Liz Ellis was awarded the coveted Hall of Fame Award - Ellis was member of the national team from 1992 to 2007 and captain for her final four years. Golfer Hannah Green took home the Federal Government Award for Outstanding Woman in Sport after her victory at the PGA Championship. She took home Australia's first gold major in a women's tournament after 13 years. Lucy Grills won the Local Sporting Champion award for competing for Australia in the World Polocrosse Cup.  Teenager Swimmer Lani Pallister received the One to Watch award as she prepares to dominate the pool at the Olympics in Tokyo next year. Michelle Bridges and partner Steve 'The Commando' Willis appeared at the event, alongside professional runner Lucy Bartholomew, Paralympic swimmer Ellie Cole and AFLW star Tayla Harris. Racecar driver Emily Duggan also took to the carpet, as well as fitness blogger and champion sprinter Katie Williams.   Women's Health Editor Jackie Mooney addressed the crowd and said the event was more than the awards and they were committed to support all sportswomen. 'It's a platform committed to supporting sportswomen at all levels,' Ms Mooney said, according to The Daily Telegraph.  'As we gear up to the Tokyo Games and the 10th Anniversary of WinS next year, we look forward to continuing to celebrate and recognise these phenomenal athletes' achievements.  Sportswoman of the Year - Ashleigh Barty, Tennis Moment of the Year - Ashleigh Barty, Tennis A-Team of the Year - Australian Women's Cricket Team Leadership Legend - Meg Lanning, Cricket  Person of Sporting Influence - Lynne Anderson, Chair, Bulldogs NRL, and CEO, Paralympics Australia  Federal Government Award for Outstanding Woman in Sport - Hannah Green, Golf Comeback of the Year - Lauren Parker, Paratriathlon Local Sporting Champion - Lucy Grills, Polocrosse One to Watch - Lani Pallister, Swimming  Hall of Fame - Liz Ellis, Netball 
