{ By James Dutton For Mailonline   Published:  12:52, 16 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7579539/Fans-vent-fury-Premier-League-not-announcing-TV-fixture-changes-busy-Christmas-period.html }
Football fans have hit out at the Premier League and their broadcasters for the delay in releasing this year's Christmas and New Year fixtures. The TV selections from Sky Sports and BT Sport for December and January were due to be published earlier this month but are currently five days late. It has left many fans frustrated at being unable to make plans and book travel over the busy festive period. The Tottenham Hotspur Supporters' Trust have issued a statement, saying: 'The Christmas and New Year set of picks is the most important of the lot to fans, who also have lives outside of football, and the disregard shown by not only running almost a week late but by the radio silence from the Premier League is astonishing, even in this day and age.' Chris Johnson of the Burnley Supporters' Trust adds: 'The attitude of Sky towards supporters is totally deplorable. 'Neither do they respect or wish to understand the needs of the supporters. It is simply a case of put up with it and if you do not like it tough!' The Chelsea Supporters' Trust have also voiced their displeasure: 'These fixtures are five days late. This impacts on family arrangements, the price of train tickets, the ability to book leave and much more.  'It is especially sensitive over Christmas, when match-going fans already have challenges regarding fitting in with family arrangements.' While the Newcastle United Supporters' Trust writes: 'Due to our geography, Newcastle fans naturally end up paying way more on average to follow their team on the road.  'The longer we wait for confirmation of away fixtures, the more expensive the trip becomes. 'Throw Christmas into the mix, naturally a busier and more expensive time of year, and some fans are faced with a huge financial burden if they want to follow their team away from home thanks to yet another delay.' 
