sport gaa
{ By Eliza Mcphee For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:59, 16 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7577409/Laurie-Levy-fighting-duck-shooting-banned-Victoria.html }
Veteran anti-duck hunting campaigner Laurie Levy believes the chances of banning the practice nationwide are growing higher than ever as the public turns against it. The 77-year-old founder of the Coalition Against Duck Shooting (CADS) is determined to put an end to the sport in his state of Victoria, saying those that kill native birds have no 'empathy'.  Although Mr Levy has been fighting for decades, he's hoping a new proposed bill from Animal Justice Party MP, Andy Meddick, will stop the 'violent' act in time to prevent the next hunting season due to begin in March or at least make it the last. Speaking with Daily Mail Australia, Mr Levy said that there were an estimated 400,000 ducks killed through hunting every year, while one in four that are shot survive with serious injuries. He said he and his team of rescuers work tirelessly to stop the shooting and in some cases found themselves in life threatening situations.  'Our rescuers are risking their lives. We had a rescuer shot in the face, she was lucky she wasn't killed or blinded,' Mr Levy said.  'We are aware of the dangers out there, but someone has to do it.'     Mr Levy said that since starting the organisation, the numbers of duck shooters in Victoria have dropped dramatically from 100,000 to 25,000. 'The reason for the drop is because of public opinion. Duck shooters are seen by the public as violent and outdated, shockingly cruel and an issue that needs to be brought to an end,' Mr Levy said. He said those that partake in duck shooting lack any empathy. 'They do it because they like to shoot moving targets and the government has accommodated them,' he said. 'It highlights the violence and cruelty.'   'They don't have any empathy for our native birds, they see them as objects to shoot down.'   Mr Levy said that everyday during the hunting season, which carries out from March until June, he and his team would venture into the wetlands to rescue the injured ducks.   'We also take out mobile veterinary clinics and any wounded bird goes back to the clinic,' he said.    Labelled the 'Duck Rescue' team, several members are pictured clad in high visibility vests while they tend to birds who have been injured during the barbaric shooting.  In a demonstration outside the office of Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews in March, the (CADS) organisation displayed hundreds of dead birds in hopes the sport will be banned. Photos show more than 70 native birds who have been illegally shot, including a number of endangered species. An estimated 800 native waterbirds were killed during the campaign, including 68 of the threatened freckled duck.   In another horrific image taken by a member of the CADS organisation, a duck was seen suffering horrific injuries from a bullet wound to its bill.   Mr Levy and his team remain hopeful that Victoria will see the end of duck massacres putting his faith in Mr Meddick.  'I think we will see the end soon,' Mr Levy said. Currently, duck shooting is banned in Western Australia, New South Wales and Queensland.      
