{ By Lawrence Booth for the Daily Mail    Published:  21:31, 23 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/cricket/article-7278383/Cricket-viewed-English-perversion-no-wonder-Ireland-feel-Lords-Test-pinnacle.html }
When Ireland's cricketers walk through the Long Room, past the portraits of WG Grace and Don Bradman, those with a sense of history may enjoy a quiet chuckle about the path that has brought them here. As recently as 1970, cricket in Ireland was on a list of sports banned by the Gaelic Athletic Association, who viewed it as a distraction from hurling and Gaelic football. Worse, it was an English perversion. Even watching cricket was not allowed. In some parts, William Porterfield and his team would have been pariahs, not heroes. But times have changed. Irish cricket is now a source of national pride, while the sight of Dublin-born Eoin Morgan lifting the World Cup at Lord's 10 days ago was greeted with pleasure, despite the odd murmur that the English game needed an Irishman to engineer arguably its finest moment. Things have not yet returned to the heady era of the mid-19th century, when cricket was said to be Ireland's most popular sport after being introduced by the British. But the GAA take a more liberal approach these days, and Irish authorities want to introduce cricket in areas more familiar with camogie, essentially women's hurling. For Porterfield, a Test - Ireland's third, after a home game against Pakistan last year and a trip to India in March to play Afghanistan - at Lord's speaks volumes for the progress made. 'It's right up there, if not the pinnacle of everything that's been achieved over the last while for Irish cricket,' he said. 'We have got a few World Cups under our belt, and they have been big occasions, but getting to Test cricket and then having the opportunity to play here, at the home of cricket, is a pretty special thing.' For a while, World Cups were Ireland's only chance to push for the Test status they craved. And they left their mark. On St Patrick's Day in 2007, as their players took the field at Sabina Park in Jamaica, they were mocked by Pakistan fans who suggested they'd be better off drinking Guinness. Ireland won by three wickets. Even more famously in 2011, Kevin O'Brien battered a 50-ball century as Ireland stunned England in Bangalore. Their score of 329 for seven remains the highest successful chase by any team in World Cup history. Devastatingly, the Irish missed out on qualification for this year's 10-team event, but Porterfield is using the absence to drive his players on. 'It's not something you get over, missing out on a World Cup,' he said. 'It's the first one since 2007 we haven't played in. 'But it provides an opportunity for us now to get out and show what we can do.' Porterfield embodies something of the journey. As well as batsmen Andrew Balbirnie and James McCollum, wicketkeeper Gary Wilson and O'Brien - scorer of Ireland's only Test century, against Pakistan at Malahide - he did a stint at Lord's with MCC Young Cricketers. Back then, the thought of walking down the pavilion steps for a Test was little more than a daydream. Match days meant a different experience altogether. 'We used to have to dish out the programmes in the boxes and stuff every morning,' he said. 'It's going to be slightly different being on this side of the fence.' Ireland's misfortune is that their long-delayed entry into the Test fold has coincided with a feeling that the team is past its peak. Their best bowler is the Lambeth-born Tim Murtagh, a Middlesex veteran who turns 38 next week. O'Brien and seamer Boyd Rankin are 35, Porterfield 34, Wilson 33. No one can accuse them of lacking experience. But the demographics of the Irish game are changing along with the country's population. An influx of south Asians has meant that 60 per cent of new cricketers in Leinster, the province that includes Dublin, are from outside Ireland. Meanwhile, in the south-west, Cork - a city with no cricket heritage to speak of - has seen an upsurge of interest. In that respect, the presence in the Test squad of Punjab-born all-rounder Simi Singh seems like a glimpse of the future. First, though, is the small matter of a Lord's Test. Fifty years ago, at Sion Mills in Londonderry, Ireland dismissed the West Indian tourists for just 25, though they were said to have been playing with horrific hangovers. Victory over England at Lord's would be on a different level altogether. The greatest moment in Irish sport? 'I think it's a big shout to say it would exceed anything,' said Porterfield. 'But in terms of cricket, yes it will be.' 
