sport gaa
{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  12:25, 22 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7057773/Charles-dons-blue-velvet-kippah-head-Belfast-synagogue-Camilla-meets-charity-workers.html }
The Duchess of Cornwall looked elegant in a turquoise skirt-suit today as she met with an organisation that provides potentially life-saving services in Belfast. Camilla, 71, teamed a knee-length print skirt with pleated details and a matching single-breasted jacket for her day out in the Northern Irish capital. She was without her husband, Prince Charles, who donned a blue velvet kippah as he attended a service at the Belfast synagogue as part of the couple's official visit. Mother-of-two Camilla teamed the turquoise ensemble with a brown leather clutch bag and fetching brooch.  Meanwhile, the Prince of Wales met a woman rescued from the Nazis on the eve of the Second World War as he visited a synagogue in north Belfast. Ruth Kohner was just two years old when she was part of the Kindertransport in 1939 which brought thousands of Jewish children to safety in the UK. Charles was at the synagogue with UK Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis as he attended the installation of the Torn From Home Windows project, which is designed to reflect the diversity of the migrant community in Northern Ireland. Ms Kohner, 82, said the prince had asked questions about her experience fleeing the growing menace of Adolf Hitler's expansionist Germany and growing up on a farm near Belfast in Co Down. She reflected: 'It saved our lives, it must have been very difficult for my parents, who had travelled 10 days by train, to bring me and my sister to escape, but they saved our lives.' Her father lost many relatives in the concentration camps, left his mother behind and knew he would never see her again. Ms Kohner spent the war at the farm in the village of Millisle along with other rescued youngsters, and went on to run a family clothing business for many years. The stained glass windows installed at the synagogue feature symbols like a dove and were made by local people as part of a project supported by the European Union. They were made by members of the Travelling, Jewish and Chinese communities, people of mixed ethnic backgrounds and various Christian churches. Designer David Esler, 67, from Ballyclare in Co Antrim, said: 'It is a wonderful opportunity to listen to others, to step outside your comfort zone. 'Someone said you are enriched rather than diminished by cultural identity, and I think that is exactly what the windows are trying to do and the opportunity to use art as a way of communicating those stories.' During her visit, Camilla was guided around a charity's shop by chief executive Sandra Moore and met a number of its staff, volunteers and clients before seeing the workshop where items of furniture are upcycled for sale.  She also spoke with a number of homeless women who come to the centre every day to use its services and learn to upcycle furniture for sale in the shop. 'That's so important to restore your confidence,' she told one woman, who had described to her how much the charity's services mean to her life. 'It gets you on the path, and once you are on the path you're going. You are all very brave to talk.' Praising the produce sold in the shop, she added: 'The shop is just incredible, real talent.' The duchess was then invited to try her hand at some craftwork before being presented with a 'Belfast Newsie' cap crafted from traditional Irish tweed. She also met Lee-Maria Hughes, whose sister Catherine died at the age of 32 on the streets of Belfast.  Ms Moore said the organisation was over the moon about its first royal visitor. She said: 'The organisation started as a community-based project 20-odd years ago, but has taken on a life of its own over the last decade when we have introduced additional services.' 'We do street outreach on the streets from 7am to 2am the next morning. The Welcome Organisation is known for working with people who are very hard to reach, those with extremely complex issues and chaotic lifestyles. 'We try to engage people. It may sound small but we got our first person into employment last week through this part of the scheme (upcycling furniture), and the people we do employ are people who have maybe been long-term unemployed and have come to us because they struggled with skills or confidence. 'This project works very well in building confidence as well as everything else. 'This visit is a great accolade for the Welcome Organisation. Everyone involved has been really excited to meet the duchess.' Meanwhile, Charles continued his day of activities with a showcase of nitrate-free pork during a tour of a factory in rural Northern Ireland. Following a morning in Belfast city centre, the prince travelled to Co Down to Finnebrogue Artisan's base. Charles was officially welcomed to Downpatrick by Lord Lieutenant of Co Down David Lindsay and Finnebrogue chairman Denis Lynn. During a boardroom meeting the prince heard how Finnebrogue launched the first nitrate-free bacon in 2017 before he got sight - and smell - of freshly cooked sausages and bacon from the company's range. 'The last time we met was 11 years ago in Belfast,' Mr Lynn told the prince. 'We were a small artisan business, our turnover was about £3 million. Eleven years and two days later we are still a small artisan business doing exactly the same thing, but we have just got a bit bigger. 'Thank you so much for coming, I have really appreciated it, I have really had a great time talking to you about your understanding of the environment. I think we are really together on this.' As the visit drew to a close, Mr Lynn presented the Charles with a hamper full of Finnebrogue products, joking it was'better' than the prince's own Duchy range, to which Charles chuckled, telling the other guests present: 'he's longing to say that'.      The Prince of Wales later played referee for a symbolic match between teams representing both sides of Northern Ireland's religious divide. Charles was visiting the Palace Demesne, home of the current offices of Armagh, Banbridge and Craigavon Council, where he blew the starting whistle for a 'game of two halves' which brought together young rugby and Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) players. One overzealous young player skidded across the pitch and landed at the feet of an impressed Charles before the game had even begun. GAA is predominantly played in schools run by the Catholic Church in Northern Ireland, while rugby had traditionally been associated with state schools, where Protestant children are more likely to attend. The GAA was represented by St Patrick's GAC Armagh and the rugby team came from the Armagh Royal School. Vice-chairman of Ulster GAA Ciaran McLaughlin said the game was 'extremely symbolic' of the future of Northern Ireland, moving away from previously held stereotypes. 'The game is part of a community outreach programme, we have Ulster Rugby and Ulster GAA coming together to try out the skills from GAA and rugby in a fun environment and bringing children together through sport,' he said. 'One half of the game will be GAA, the other will be rugby, and the children will be split into mixed teams to play against each other, we're seeing more and more clubs doing it. 'Hopefully it's moving away from the old notions, I spoke to a few boys today from the Royal School who say they already play GAA, and the same applies the other way around - that would've been unheard of 20 years ago. 'It's extremely symbolic and I think it's why the council were so keen to highlight the good work that's going on.' Ulster and Ireland rugby star Rory Best and Armagh County GAA manager Kieran McGeeney were also present to meet the prince. Charles spoke at length to Mr McGeeney, appearing to ask about the skills involved in the sport. The council has ambitious plans to build a new sports facility which can be enjoyed by the entire community, with both local rugby and GAA clubs lending their support to the new facility. Prince Charles completed his final appointment on the second day of his three-day trip to the island of Ireland at Brownlow House, home of Lugan District Loyal Orange No.6.  Prince Charles met young people from across Northern Ireland's divide celebrating their culture through the mediums of music and dance.  He met members of the Orange Order and Royal Black Preceptory, as well as school children from St Ronan's School and Lurgan Junior High School, who entertained him with both Irish and Ulster Scots dancing. The prince also met once of his youngest namesakes, DUP MLA Carla Lockhart's two-week-old son Charlie. Charlie was born after his mother was suddenly rushed to hospital during the recent local government election count. Ms Lockhart said: 'The prince today was inquiring after him and what weight he was. It was just such an honour to meet Prince Charles today and little Charlie enjoyed it as well.' The visit comes after the Prince of Wales took a guided tour through the stunning scenery of a botanical garden as his tour of the Irish Republic continued on yesterday. Charles, strolled through the National Botanic Gardens in Kilmacurragh, County Wicklow, to see the important work that is being undertaken in plant conservation. When he arrived, he was greeted by Kevin Moran, Minister for the Office of Public Works and Flood Relief, and Seamus O Brien, Head Gardener at Kilmacurragh, who showed the Prince around. Kilmacurragh is renowned for its remarkable gardens and plant collection established by the Acton family. The present collection of mature exotics is largely based on material collected by some of the great plant-hunters of the 19th century. Charles, clad in a pinstripe suit and appearing to wear a flower picked from the garden, began his visit by walking through a wild meadow with the Wicklow hills as a stunning backdrop, and followed a path which took him to Kilmacurragh House. The ruined shell of a building is a rare example of the Queen Anne style of architecture in Ireland and was in 1697.  
