{ By Reuters   Published:  23:10, 3 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-6883869/Coyotes-Kuemper-eye-tests-status-vs-Knights-unclear.html }
Arizona Coyotes goaltender Darcy Kuemper was awaiting further tests on his right eye on Wednesday, and his status for Thursday's critical game at the Vegas Golden Knights remains unclear. "Probably know more tomorrow," head coach Rick Tocchet told reporters Wednesday. "But I talked (to him) today. Smile on his face. He put some drops in there and stuff, so we'll see how it reacts." Tocchet was noncommittal on whether Kuemper would fly with the team to Vegas on Wednesday, but he suggested the close proximity would leave the window open for Kuemper to play. The team recalled Adin Hill from Tucson of the AHL, and backup Cal Pickard would be set to start if Kuemper cannot go. Pickard replaced Kuemper early in the third period of Tuesday night's loss to the Los Angeles Kings, after L.A.'s Trevor Lewis scored the go-ahead goal with 17:31 to play. Just as he scored, Lewis was shoved from behind, and his stick blade went through Kuemper's mask and hit his eye. Pickard, 26, stopped all five shots he faced, but the Kings bagged an empty-netter to seal the win, putting the Coyotes on the brink of elimination. To make the postseason, Arizona (38-34-8, 84 points) must win out while Colorado loses its final two games in regulation. Kuemper, who turns 29 in May, has started 21 straight games and 26 of 27 for the Coyotes. He was named the NHL's Third Star of the Week on Monday after stopping 95 of 97 shots over a three-game span, which included shutouts of Chicago and Minnesota. He ranks first among NHL goalies with at least 46 appearances this season in goals-against average (2.35) and second in save percentage (.924). Pickard is 4-5-2 with a 3.83 GAA and .875 save percentage in 16 games (11 starts) this season. "I love Cal. A tough situation, and he's handled it probably as professionally as any guy I've known in 30 years," Tocchet said. "If he plays, we root for him. You have 21 guys going to work hard for this guy. He deserves it. Big team guy, and if he plays, he plays. He was fine in there (Tuesday night). He looked relaxed, to me." --Field Level Media 
