stocks
{  
    January 12 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/raising-our-stock-26343997.html }
IT'S been a grim couple of months for the Irish Stock Exchange. Not alone was Dublin the worst performing equity market in Europe last year, the sub-prime mortgage crisis has cast a harsh light on its lucrative listed funds business. Just seven months into the job, Exchange boss Deirdre Somers has endured a baptism of fire. When Deirdre Somers took over as chief executive last June it seemed as if the Irish Stock Exchange could do no wrong. Under her predecessor Tom Healy the Exchange had been transformed from a dozy old boys' club into a much more dynamic outfit. The key weakness of the Irish Stock Exchange has always been the relatively small number of liquid Irish shares. Just five stocks, AIB, CRH, Bank of Ireland, Elan and Anglo Irish, make up almost 60 per cent of the total value of the Irish equity market. The old joke about the Irish Stock Exchange being a market of stocks rather than a stock market has never been truer. The Irish Stock Exchange is top-heavy with financial stocks. Between them AIB, Bank of Ireland, Anglo Irish and Irish Life & Permanent account for a third of the total value of the market. As fears about the health of the Irish property market grew last year Irish bank shares fell by a massive 35pc. This in turn pulled down the overall Irish market, which fell by over a quarter last year. This made the Irish Stock Exchange the worst-performing equity market in the whole of Europe in 2007. However, the dependence on the Irish Stock Exchange on a handful of stocks is hardly news. By itself the sharp fall in Irish share prices, particularly those of the banks, during 2007 would hardly merit a mention outside of the business pages. The real story for the Stock Exchange last year was the manner in which the sub-prime crisis thrust its burgeoning listed funds business into the limelight. In the late 1980s, the Stock Exchange realised that, with improved public finances rapidly undermining the government bond market, it could not hope to survive in the long term solely by trading a handful of shares. Future survival depended on the Exchange finding a new source of business. It is to the Stock Exchange's credit that it did just that. The establishment of the IFSC opened up overseas opportunities for Ireland's previously insular financial services sector. The previously fuddy-duddy Stock Exchange was among those who benefited from these new opportunities. Starting in 1989, it offered a listing service for foreign investment funds. This investment fund business has been phenomenally successful for the Irish Stock Exchange. It is now the world leader in the listed funds business with over 4,300 such funds listed on the Dublin market by the end of October 2007. Most of these funds have absolutely no connection with Ireland and choose to list in Dublin purely for reasons of convenience. The Stock Exchange followed up on its success with listed investment funds by diversifying into specialist listed debt securities. This too has been extremely successful. The Irish Stock Exchange claims to be the European leader in this sector with over 3,700 of them listed by the end of October last. But has the Stock Exchange been too successful for its own good? When the sub-prime crisis erupted last August, it quickly emerged that several Dublin-listed funds were up to their necks in toxic loans. As the assets in these funds were downgraded by the ratings agencies, they racked up huge losses and threatened to drag their parent companies down with them. German regional bank, Sachsen LB, had to be taken over after its Dublin-listed fund, Ormond Quay, sprung a leak. Sachsen required a €17.3bn bail-out by a group of other German banks. Another German bank, IKB, needed a €5bn cash injection after Rhinebridge, a Dublin-listed fund it operated, got into difficulty as a result of its sub-prime exposure. The Stock Exchange's embarrassment was compounded when it emerged that yet another Dublin-listed fund, Cheyne Finance, had to restructure its activities and sell assets after its credit rating was slashed by rating agency Standard & Poor's. Last August's debacle has inevitably led to questions being asked about the quality of Irish financial services regulation. Did the Stock Exchange turn a blind eye to risky dealings in its search for new business? Irish Stock Exchange sources vehemently deny that what went wrong was somehow their fault. They argue that what happened was due to investment decisions taken by individual funds and not to any failure on the part of the Stock Exchange. In their defence they also point out that the rules governing the regulation of listed funds are decided at EU rather than at national level. While the Stock Exchange is surely correct in its assertion that it was not to blame for the losses suffered by Dublin-listed funds, it is almost certain to suffer from the fallout. Mainland European markets, particularly Germany, have long been jealous of the success enjoyed by the Irish Stock Exchange in poaching what they considered to be "their" business. Last summer's events are already being used as a stick with which to beat the Irish Stock Exchange. It mightn't be fair but don't be surprised if it turns out to be effective. In retrospect it can be seen that Healy timed his departure perfectly. When the Irish Stock Exchange reported its 2006 results almost 12 months ago, Healy revealed that operating profits had climbed to €10m from €7m in 2005. It was too good to last and it hasn't. A native of Cork, Somers, who will be 41 this year, attended the posh St Angela's secondary school before going on to UCC, from which she graduated with a commerce degree in 1987. She then joined KPMG where she qualified as a chartered accountant. At KPMG she worked in the corporate tax department eventually becoming a manager in KPMG financial services, specialising in international tax. She is married with one daughter and lists her interests as travel, music and cooking. Somers joined the Stock Exchange as director of listings in 1995 as it sought to beef up the listed funds business. In this role she was responsible for all Stock Exchange listings including equities, listed funds and specialist debt securities. Somers also served on the Company Law Reform Group. As chief executive of the Irish Stock Exchange, Somers is one of the most senior women in Irish business. Of the 80-plus companies whose shares are traded on the Stock Exchange only one, recruitment group CPL, has a female chief executive, while the only female chairman of a quoted company is Gillian Bowler at Irish Life & Permanent. That women are still so poorly represented in the upper echelons of Irish business is almost incredible. Somers's promotion to the top job at the Stock Exchange was at least partially in recognition of her role in building up the listed funds and debt securities businesses. While we will have to wait until the Stock Exchange publishes its full-year results shortly it is likely that the growth in the number of investment funds and debt securities listed in Dublin ground to a halt in the second half of 2007. This means that Somers will have to find new business opportunities for the Stock Exchange. At least part of this will involve persuading more Irish companies to list their shares in Dublin. Entire sectors of the Irish economy including retailing, property, hotels, telecommunications and infrastructure, remain either wholly or largely unrepresented on the Irish Stock Exchange. A takeover of one of the major banks would remove a large chunk of the Exchange's trading volume at a stroke. For all of its imperfections, the Stock Exchange has played a significant role in the development of the Irish economy since its foundation in 1793. A healthy indigenous capital market is essential to help grow strong domestic companies. The challenge facing Somers is to ensure the continued success of the Exchange so that it can fund the development of the next generation of native companies. 
