stocks
{  
    May 22 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/bruton-lectures-command-20k-26220803.html }
NICK WEBB FORMER Taoiseach John Bruton commands as much as $20,000 a session for his public speaking engagements, as well as first-class travel tickets, it has emerged. In 2003, Bruton made eight paid speeches, according to his filings in the latest Oireachtas Register of TDs' Interests, revealed today in the Sunday Independent. The former Rainbow Coalition Taoiseach spoke at a European study tours conference in Paris, a foreign affairs ministry meeting in Greece, a financial conference in Cap Ferrat on the Cote d'Azur, a US food seminar, a lecture to Moscow financiers, as well as speeches in Dublin, South Africa and Canada. Last week, Bruton's agency, AEI Speakers Bureau in Boston, quoted the Sunday Independent a fee of between $15,000 and $20,000 for Bruton to speak in New York on the subject of "International Finance". First-class travel was also to be included in the package. Bruton's feet barely touched the ground in 2003 as he travelled extensively around the world, with some of his bills picked up by Coca-Cola Bottler, the Greek foreign ministry, the Tory Europe Network, the Law Society of Scotland, Rome's Aspen Institute, the Austrian ministry of the interior, the Memorial University of Newfoundland, American Enterprise Institute and the Mexican foreign ministry. Mr Bruton also declared a five-day stay in the holiday home of Central Bank director and beef baron, Friedhelm Danz. The register of TDs' interests also details that many of the State's TDs have pocketed healthy profits on the stock markets, while others - including Justice Minister Michael McDowell - could be sitting on huge gains from their investments in the property market. It can be revealed that a Sinn Fein TD is a shareholder in a company which has been granted a major supply contract from the State. TDs do not need to declare any shareholdings with a value of less than ?12,700. Green Party TD Ciaran Cuffe holds shares in the world's largest oilwell drilling rig company, Nabors Industries. The Houston-based company operates rigs both onshore and offshore, primarily around the Gulf of Mexico. He is also a shareholder in pharmaceutical company Mylan, as well as in multinationals such as Pepsico, Walt Disney, Intel and Air Products and Chemicals. Cuffe reshuffled his massive stock portfolio last year, following revelations in the Sunday Independent that he was an investor in a variety of ecologically dubious firms in the oil, chemical and defence sectors. In 2003 he purchased fund units in both the Dolmen Securities Green Effects Fund and the Friends First Stewardship Fund. Fine Gael's Jim O'Keeffe seems to be the keenest disciple of the stock market in the Dail. He is listed as holding a portfolio of more than 20 stocks, ranging from listed Irish bookie Paddy Power to chemical giant Eli Lilly and Apple Computer. O'Keeffe has also taken a punt on two BES-backed internet companies, including the Ryan family-backed Eumom and Darkshire. Fianna Fail's Sean Power also has a sizeable stock collection. He holds shares in a variety of companies from Manchester United to Irish Life & Permanent and zinc explorer Ivernia West. Power is one of the few backers of the controversial Life Energy and Technology, chaired by Albert Reynolds. Exploration companies have been among the top performers on the stock market in the last year, leaving Limerick's Willie O'Dea in a good position. He is an investor in the John Teeling-run companies Pan Andean, Petrel Resources and African Diamonds. O'Dea also has an interest in Ormonde Mining and in Anglo Irish Bank. While most exploration firms have performed well, Bula Resources finally vanished, with all investors losing money. Labour TD Willie Penrose noted that his 97,000 Bula shares were now "valueless". Fianna Fail's Michael Mulcahy has realigned his portfolio in the last year. He sold shares in JurysDoyle Hotels, Grafton Group, Galen and Irish Life & Permanent during 2003. Mulcahy, a former Lord Mayor of Dublin, retains shares in AIB, Bank of Ireland, Kingspan, CRH and Aviva. Fianna Fail's Ned O'Keeffe owns shares in a number of listed companies including Irish Life & Permanent, Greencore, Kerry Group, Grafton and Bank of Ireland. Minister of State Tim O'Malley owns stock in United Drug and Norwich Union stock. The ?887m takeover of First Active by Royal Bank of Scotland earlier in the year benefited a number of TDs. Shareholders in the mortgage provider included Labour's Willie Penrose, Peter Power, Tim O'Malley, MJ Nolan, Tony Dempsey and Paudge Connolly. AIB has suffered a series of embarrassing overcharging scandals, but at least some TDs have continued to back the bank by remaining shareholders. Mayo's Michael Ring, Sean Power, Ned O'Keeffe, Jim O'Keeffe, Michael Mulcahy and Richard Bruton are listed as holding shares in the company. Vodafone's takeover of Eircom's mobile phone division, Eircell, in 2001, created large numbers of long-suffering Irish Vodafone shareholders. These include Frank Fahey, independent TD Tony Gregory, Pat "the Cope" Gallagher, Jim O'Keeffe and Willie Penrose. Louth Sinn Fein TD Arthur Morgan disclosed that he is a director of a company which won contracts to supply the Defence Forces and the North Eastern Health Board with seafood. Morgan, who recently admitted having been a member of the IRA, served time in prison for gun smuggling. The TD is a non-executive director of Seafood Processors, which reported profits of over ?305,000 last year. Most recent accounts show that Morgan owns 20 per cent of the company. Fellow Sinn Fein activist Martin Ferris admits to a ?13,000 payoff when he gave up his council seat. TDs have also made money on the booming property market. Justice Minister Michael McDowell has disclosed that - along with his wife - he owns 10 per cent of an office block in the Eastpoint Business Park in Clontarf. The business park houses such blue chip tenants as Oracle, Lexmark and eircom.net. McDowell also owns property in Dublin 6. Minister of State John Browne has borrowed ?157,000 from the EBS to fund a property investment in Gorey. Frank Fahey has boosted his property portfolio. He has an interest in 13 properties between Limerick, Galway and Dublin's Orwell Road. Noel O'Flynn is also a major property owner in the Cork City area, holding several blocks of development land. Some TDs have bought properties overseas, both in the UK and in more exotic areas. Gerard Murphy spent ?22,500 buying an apartment in Gorzow in Poland, while Breda Moynihan-Cronin owns properties in Birmingham and Liverpool. Sean Ardagh has invested in property in Hungary, buying an apartment in Budapest. Meanwhile in the Senate, John Dardis, the Progressive Democrat deputy leader, has the biggest share portfolio in either house of the Oireachtas with 22 heavy holdings listed. They include such controversial stocks as Citigroup, Shell and Glaxo SmithKline - precisely the sort of investments that landed Ciaran Cuffe in hot water last year. Another Senator holding Shell stock is Fianna Fail guru Martin Mansergh, who inherited them from his mother in 2003, along with some in Barclays Bank and BP. Elsewhere, Senator David Norris has lost heart in the stock market and no longer holds any shares, after dumping his legacy of AIB and an investment trust stock last year. Former Irish Congress of Trades Unions chief Joe O'Toole has taken the opposite view, adding Intel, Greencore and Scottish Power to his portfolio. Independent Shane Ross has bought into Bank of Ireland stock and is losing money. Another who appears to take issue with Senator Norris's pessimism about equities is Fianna Fail publican Senator Eddie Bohan. Bohan has been buying. His purchases in 2003 included Life Energy, a company chaired by his old pal Albert Reynolds. In the past Eddie's loyalty to the ex-Taoiseach has not proved too profitable - he is listed as a stale bull of Bula, shares currently of no value. Albert exited as Bula chairman two years ago. In recent months Bohan has also taken a punt in Manchester United stock. Fine Gael leader Enda Kenny's right-hand man in Mayo, Senator Paddy Burke, was in the market for Ryanair, AIB, Bank of Ireland and Vodafone during 2003. His shares have mirrored the position of his party in the polls: both appear to have been underperforming the competition. FF's Senator Paschal Mooney has made a mint out of Anglo Irish Banks, while he is only marking time in Aviva and Vodafone. Other Senators prefer property. Among those with interests in land are Tipperary Labour Senator Kathleen O'Meara, with two properties to let in South Dublin, while FF South Dublin Senator Don Lydon returns the compliment with three properties in Tipperary. Senator Mary Henry owns a prize property on Dublin's Leeson Street while the Taoiseach's close confidante, Tony Kett, receives rental income from a house on Beaumont Road in Dublin. All of Senator Feargal Quinn's considerable wealth appears to be tied up in his supermarket chain. He lists no external land, gifts, property, travel facilities or other paid positions. 
