stocks
{  
    May 26 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/managing-pastures-in-difficult-conditions-25948821.html }
RAINFALL is at least double the normal level over most of the country. At Athenry rainfall for May so far is similar to the high level recorded for May of  last year. After a very promising start, grass growth has slowed. At this time of the year  with all stock at grass and about 50pc of the grassland area closed for silage stocking rates are at their highest on the grazing o RAINFALL is at least double the normal level over most of the country. At Athenry rainfall for May so far is similar to the high level recorded for May of last year. After a very promising start, grass growth has slowed. At this time of the year with all stock at grass and about 50pc of the grassland area closed for silage stocking rates are at their highest on the grazing over and any loss of grazing combined with slow growth will lead to grass scarcity. Remedial action Where there are problems, the solutions will depend on the severity of the conditions, stocking rates, type of stock, alternative sources of feed and facilities. If grass is plentiful, stock can be spread out over an extensive area or can be moved out of a field or paddock when grass becomes soiled. After about a week to ten days when the grass cleans, stock can be brought back to graze off the remaining grass. At moderate to high stocking rates or where grass is scarce, the option of spreading out stock or moving faster through paddocks is not available as this will only cause a greater grass shortage. Where the wet conditions are fairly short-term, moving stock to the dryer areas could work but in more severe conditions some cattle will have to be housed either part-time or full-time. After a downpour on heavy soils, stock can be housed for a day or so without feed with better effect on performance. Strip grazing Where housing is adjacent to the grazing area, cattle can be put to grass for a few hours each day. The area can be strip grazed using electric fencing to allocate the daily grass allowance. Remove the stock as soon as the grass has been grazed off so as to avoid unnecessary poaching. If strip grazing, a back fence is essential to prevent cattle going over the grazed area and either causing further poaching or grazing-off new regrowth. If we take a good pasture of 2000kg DM per hectare, (about 4 tonnes fresh grass per acre or an average height of 5") a 450kg store needs about 50 sq. metres per day so a group of 30 such stores need about 0.4 acres strip grazed per day. If grass is scarce and it is decided to graze some silage ground, strip grazing is the best. Housing If grass is scarce or a lot of damage is being done, housing some stock to relieve the pressure on grazing land is the best option. Finishing cattle needs to get priority. Cattle that are due to finish in the next two months need a constant supply of high quality grass plus about 3kg concentrates per day. Meal feeding on pasture in wet weather causes additional poaching so it may be a better option to house and put them on to an accelerated finishing diet of all concentrates. Grazing Where grass is scarce, spread one bag of nitrogen per acre when conditions allow. Nitrogen cannot be taken up by the grass roots if the soil is saturated. Don't spread if heavy rain is forecast in the following 48 hours and do not spread on very wet soils. 
