stocks
{ Eugene Kiernan 
    January 06 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/bonds-shares-and-tech-stocks-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-26098578.html }
THIS week the NASDAQ index soared by 14pc in one day - its biggest daily surge since the early '70s. But investors wary of getting their fingers burnt a second time around  should draw lessons from how the technology bubble burst  last year. For investors, 2000 was a 'defensive' year; bonds comfortably beat cash, most equity markets were in negative territory (with some notable positive exceptions) but technology indices worldwide were in freefall. While stockmarket investors had a challenging year, in general in 2000 the Dow Jones was down about 8pc, while European markets lost about 3pc, investors in Technology and telecoms were badly bruised. After a heady 1999 and good start to 2000, from March on, the red ink spilled across the so-called 'new economy' sectors. From its high on March 10, the NASDAQ index of US technology stocks has lost about 46pc. The German Neuer Markt fared even worse, tumbling nearly 70pc from its high in March. The investment world witnessed the coming and going of such grand names as Mango.com, Breathe.Com and Wetnose.com. The weakness was not confined to pure technology stocks and 2000 will go down as a year when Telecom stocks around the Globe plunged. Declines of 60pc and 70pc were common in the telecom sector in the UK, US, and Europe. What happened? Tech stocks were priced for perfection and perfection didn't happen. Technology stocks had had a great run. Looking at the US, the NASDAQ index from October 1998 to March 2000 was up over 250pc. This was a spectacular move even by NASDAQ standards the previous technology rush in 1983 had only seen the index double. The level of valuation for many of these stocks assumed that profits could grow every year by 20pc or more. This was clearly demanding. Some will. But clearly not all will. This sector had also seen a huge influx of new money in recent years which pushed the valuations to these levels. For example in the US, flows into emerging growth (ie technology) mutual funds in 1999 were over four times the amount that was finding its way into more traditional value areas of the market. Secondly, the nature of many of these businesses, where the imperative was to attain first mover advantage and where revenues were slow in coming, meant that in the early months, huge amounts of cash had to be invested without any commensurate inflow. These companies quickly saw cash evaporating from their balance sheets. There was a limit to how much cash investors, through IPOs, could inject into the business. Equally, there was a limit to borrowings. US Banks for the first time in a number of years were becoming more strict in their lending criteria. Barron's, the influential US business paper, drew up a prescient list of those companies with a high "burn" rate ie, were losing cash at faster and faster pace. Many hi-tech companies simply ran out of money. Thirdly, it's the economy, stupid! At the start of the year, the US economy had been growing at a run rate of about 6pc. This was heady growth. The US Federal Reserve was ever vigilant on the need to slow the economy down. In 1999 it had added 3/4pc to interest rates and in 2000 it put another full 1pc on to interest rates. It worked. From mid-year on there were clear signs from the housing market and retail sales that the US economy was moving to a lower trajectory of economic growth, and, more importantly for the market, of corporate profits. Companies began to warn of profit shortfalls and technology companies were in the vanguard of such disappointments Hewlett Packard, Microsoft, Intel, Cisco among many others said they would miss analyst forecasts. The weaker euro and slower European demand were cited as reasons but it was clear that the slower domestic market place was also critical. Priced at such high P/Es the market punished the share prices of these technology names, resulting in the NASDAQ plunges noted earlier. Why did the bubble burst? Technology stocks were at highly demanding prices, the business were burning up cash, and, perhaps most importantly, final demand began to slow. Where do we go from here? It is important to remember that many assets did well in 2000. More traditional stocks, often called 'value' stocks, had a great run in the US, with very positive returns in what was a down market. Financial stocks here in Ireland the Banks and Irish Life and Permanent had very healthy double digit returns. But what about these 'new economy' stocks? Is the technology arena a reasonable place for investment after this shakeout? Absolutely. While the US economy will slow down in 2001, it will still register solid growth of around 3pc spurred by interest rates falls such as last Wednesday's 0.5pc cut. Technology stocks prices have already been punished a lot. There is long term value in Apple Computer. As regards the bigger names - Microsoft, Intel , Cisco etc. - these are powerhouses; quality companies with solid franchises and solid profit potential. For example, some 75pc of all internet traffic in the world passes through Cisco Systems equipment. This is true growth. This area of technology is a superior investment option. Equally, successful leading companies will continue to transform their businesses using technology. The effect of the bubble was to divert investors away from what truly matters solid balance sheets and sustainable profitable growth. For 2001, B2B will still be a catch phrase, but it will stand for 'back to basics'. Eugene Kiernan is head of asset allocation at Irish Life Investment Managers 
