stocks
{  
    September 07 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/where-best-to-invest-your-cash-26073504.html }
Got a reasonably sizeable amount of money to invest and don't now what to do with it? EDDIE LENNON spoke  with two financial advisers about the various options. LOW RISK Liam O'Sullivan, of O'Sullivan Tierney Financial Management, says that, when it comes to low-risk investments, an important consideration is how long you're prepared to put your money away, and if you want access. "There's very little you can invest in short-term, apart from putting your money on deposit or into shares." For longer term, low risk investments, he recommends with-profit products. "Every week we now see a new or revised product on the market. People want to take less risk now because they see the volatility in stock markets, particularly the US. So you need to expand your options to take account of that." It is important to get independent advice to help you decide which of the nine with-profit products (or combination of products) is best, given the investor's needs. "Typically you could expect a 4pc annual return and a terminal bonus at the end, depending how well your investment managers do. There can also be a capital guarantee - the magic word for an investor. Obviously there are no free lunches, and you are paying for that guarantee." One with-profits bond from Hibernian pays up to 9.25pc in the first year. "However if you were to take your cash out in the first year there would also be a similar level of penalty," Liam points out. O'Sullivan Tierney are fans of the Celebration 2001 Bond from Hibernian, and the Caledonian With Profit Bond. However, Liam adds: "If someone was prepared to put their money away for 10 years, I would prefer to see them invest in stocks. You almost don't need a guarantee if you're prepared to leave your money for that length of time." For terms of three to five years, tracker bonds can also be worth looking at - although they can have limited upside, he adds. Douglas Farrell, director of National Deposit Brokers, says if you want low risk with access to the stock market plus a guaranteed capital, with-profits bonds are your only real option. He favours with-profit products from Standard Life, Irish Life, Scottish Provident and Canada Life. "Some are better for growth; others are better if you need to get an income out of it," he says. As five year interest rates have come back up, tracker bonds are coming back into vogue. Most offer a 90 to 100pc capital guarantee on your money. So all you're really risking is the interest you would have earned had you put it in a deposit account, which isn't a huge amount. However, Douglas adds, if interest rates drop, this may go into reverse: to give investors a capital guarantee, the lower the interest rate the more of your money has to be invested in deposit accounts, and the less the fund manager has to play with. MEDIUM RISK Liam O'Sullivan says: "Property funds are a useful way to access a portfolio of properties. Property funds investing in the UK currently offer good value, especially those with a good hedging position in place (no currency risk)." One such product is likely to be launched on the Irish market shortly by Irish Life. The fund will initially invest in two UK growth cities. While more suitable for the more experienced investor, the fund will give access to property developers' growth, but with risk reduction features. Wisdomscope is a consensus fund. How such a fund works is that the Fund Manager looks at all the managed funds in the market, how their assets are invested, and finds a consensus between them on how and where to invest. "It's a very useful approach: you're not betting on one fund manager," Liam says. "By definition, it's going to give average performance, but if your objective is to reduce risk, it fulfills that. You won't be in the top performing fund, but you won't be the bottom one, either." Douglas Farrell adds that consensus funds and other managed funds over five to 10 years should make 10pc plus annually. "But there will be years where they do better, and others where they'll do considerably worse." Liam O'Sullivan also cites Standard Life's Euro Protection Bond. However, he adds, "there's a bit more risk there because you're investing in one geographic area, Europe. The likes of Wisdomscope has a greater mix: Irish and international shares, government stock and property." HIGH RISK The broadest range of products - which you should regard as a 'punt' for cash you can afford to risk. Liam O'Sullivan feels the technology sector is going to grow. "It's very volatile now, but there are several technology funds. I would favour technology rather than telecoms funds, which have major difficulties that haven't been sorted with the new 3G licenses." You can invest in these funds - available from most life insurance companies - for as little as £5,000. Liam feels the Nasdaq's so low that there's real value in technology stocks. "It's a growth industry. Things look bad now, but that's the time to invest in a high risk product." However, it's impossible to predict the tech sector. "You could also go for 'hedge funds' at the higher risk end. These are volatile products, only just coming on the market. Friends First recently launched; Irish Life and others will do so soon. "Hedge funds can invest in whatever areas they like, and borrow heavily to try to make maximum profit. So there's more risk." There are also high growth/risk, volatile funds that invest in a small number of stocks. These include Hibernian's Target 20 Fund, New Ireland's Smart Stocks 15 and Canada Life's Focus 15 fund. Focus 15 is modelled on the American Janus 20 Fund, which has outperformed the S&P 500 index by an average of 3pc over the last 14 years. Douglas Farrell warns against picking a few technology stocks, rather than a managed fund: "A couple of bad stocks can drag down your performance. If someone's looking for very high risk, they should possibly look at a combination of one of these specialist funds and buying the Nasdaq 100 index. Irish Life and a few others have launched Nasdaq funds. "They're all down between 30 and 40pc from when they were launched. So you can spread your money over 100 stocks, and invest in at very low levels. You have to decide if the Nasdaq is at the bottom or only halfway there. At the moment, technology stocks are only 20pc of the S&P 500, so there's scope for them to improve." However, he cautions, buying the right stocks after they've taken a battering is OK as long as you can handle the volatility. "The Nasdaq has been going up and down with the least bit of news. It's a very uncertain time. "We generally advise clients to invest in technology stocks only if they are opportunistic investors, can ride the volatility and have invested in stocks as a small part of a broad portfolio. "We have an old rule of thumb, especially for people 55 and over: it's not worth losing sleep over an investment. You need to make sure your money is beating inflation, and working within the risk profiles you've set. There's no point tormenting yourself or taking huge risks - you may as well be putting money on racehorses." Liam O Sullivan concludes by reminding investors to use the portfolio approach by investing in different investment companies, different risk profile products and different time frame products. "The bottom line is don't put all your eggs in one investment basket." *Eddie Lennon is managing editor of Ireland's new value for money website, bestvalueireland.com. 
