stocks
{  
    March 29 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/heres-what-you-can-do-with-1000-26123049.html }
The experts speak: stick with tech stocks, no matter how  much they may be limping along now.  @@STYL cf,crb Eddie Lennon  @@STYL cf,csr listens ... The experts speak: stick with tech stocks, no matter how much they may be limping along now. @@STYL cf,crb Eddie Lennon @@STYL cf,csr listens attentively to four in the know GOT £1,000 to spare and don't know what to do with it? Maybe you're bewildered by the info overload of investment opportunities everything from dull but relatively dependable stocks to the debonair but dodgier dot.coms and technology offerings. Where, you ask, would those in the know put that tidy slice of disposable income? We asked some of Ireland's leading stockbrokers what they would invest in if we gave them £1,000 each. In other words, would they really put their money where their mouths are? Gerry Hennigan, IT analyst with Goodbody, says that, for sheer growth, he would invest his £1,000 in technology stocks. ``The only problem with them,'' he adds, ``is they're very volatile, but some are less risky than the pure Internet stocks. I think there will be tremendous growth in the mobile phone market, with blue chip companies like Nokia and Sonera.'' Mr Hennigan also favours Irish company SmartForce because, he believes, ``the whole educational market is one of the few areas where the internet has major implications. I also like the semiconductor intellectual property companies, like Arm (London) and Rambus (US).'' The big question in many investors' minds is whether it's a good time to invest in technology stocks. Have they fully bottomed out and is the time right to take advantage of their new, cheaper price? Is it wise to jump in now, or are tech stocks likely to drop even further? Because of the attention given to tech stocks in recent months, Mr Hen- nigan says a lot of people invested in them, which fuelled their upside. So they were due for a correction. That came last week, when many stocks bottomed out and some started to re- bound with people buying in at the cheaper price. ``I'd prefer to see a steadier growth than at present,'' he says, ``but with the tech sector being what it is, you're going to get a lot of volatility anyway. But next month, most companies will be announcing first-quarter earnings, so you should see tech stocks move forward from there.'' Cedric Cruess Callaghan, head of research at Dolmen Butler Briscoe, believes investors seeking capital growth should go for Vodaphone AirTouch and Engage Technologies. Following Mannesmann's acquisition, Vodafone AirTouch (listed in London) will have more than 42m customers in 25 countries, with control in 13 of them, he says. ``It will become one of the leading world internet plays it currently has about 12pc of the world mobile market. Also, it recently formed an alliance with Vivendi to create a common Internet portal for all devices (mobile phone, TV, PC) to get access to the 80m customer base of the combined groups.'' Vodafone AirTouch will be either No. 1 or 2 in most markets and will represent about 16pc of the FTSE 100, says Mr Callaghan. It will, therefore, be a ``must have'' stock for index tracking funds. Engage Technologies is a leader in profile-driven marketing solutions for the internet. Each user assigned a number, and as he or she visits different sites a profile of the user is developed, thereby allowing Engage to target and serve advertising/banner ads based on the users interests and to measure the advertisements' effectiveness. ``Engage currently has 42m customer profiles with 800 categories,'' Mr Callaghan says, and ``Microsoft use software from Engage to serve all ads on their website.'' Kevin McConnell, senior analyst with Bloxham, also goes for Vodafone. With a 15pc weighting in the FTSE-100, he says, Vodafone ``is a core holding for investors. The new company is seen as a would-be Microsoft because of its sheer size and scale.'' Denis O'Connor, partner in Campbell O'Connor, wouldn't say what he himself would invest in. But he would advice clients that both Bank of Ireland and AIB are good bets. ``Both have proved their well-being over the years, and will do so again,'' he says. ``They're not doing particularly well now, but they will come again. For something a little riskier, Mr O'Connor suggests ``one of the UK dot.com stocks, or a UK communications stock like Vodafone, where you're getting exposure to a fast growing sector, yet you're buying a blue chip stock. Vodafone is the largest company in the UK index, and a global player. ``If you want to put your money totally on the line, Bula or Providence (both listed in Dublin) are not the worst bets, but obviously you need a good nerve to go into either.'' 
