stocks
{  
    November 07 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/beware-the-bush-bounce-26226268.html }
LATE last Tuesday night the speculators were out in force. Early evidence of a high poll suggested that John Kerry would win. The S&amp;P index in New York did a rapid u-turn. Monday's hope of a Bush victory was followed by Tuesday's fear of a dangerous Democrat. After a day of optimism that there would be a clear result, the rumour machine decreed that the high poll would sweep Kerry to power. The dollar took a tumble. Stocks retreated. Throughout Tuesday night the fortunes of shares and the dollar were inseparable from the future of George Bush. Whenever a result favourable to the Republicans surfaced, the dollar rallied. When Kerry pulled a hook against the head, there was a blip. The stock market was rooting for the Republicans. The foreign exchange markets were dreading the prospect of a Democratic victory. At the end of the day the market was granted its wish. The result was a Republican clean sweep. The party of big business captured the presidency, the Senate and the House of Representatives, all in one swoop. Corporate America cheered. And then . . . the dollar fell to an eight-month low after an initial jump in response to the return of the hero. The smart boys who had bought billions of dollars in hope of a Bush victory were dazed. Their leader had won, the anti-business Kerry was beaten. Yet the beloved dollar had ground to a standstill. While the dollar took little time off to celebrate the result, the stock market enjoyed its customary lift at the election of a Republican president. But historically, this traditional short-term bounce has often been followed by months - or even years - of market decline. As always, the market professionals have already jumped into the abyss. Bush has been a disaster for the stock markets and the dollar. Indeed, he has been the worst president for equities since 1945. Yet the currency kings were buying dollars in the expectation of a sustained rally after his victory. The rally lasted a few minutes. So it is difficult to understand the stock market's love affair with George W Bush. But market gurus swallowed myth rather than reality: Bush and the Republican party are the capitalist's friend. Bush, the stock market saviour, may be a fallacy - but worse still is the fable that Republicans are good for either the markets or the economy. This fantasy has been exploded. Several credible studies have found that stock markets prefer Democratic presidents. A recent article published in Forbes magazine demonstrated that stock markets under Republican presidents were left flat footed in comparison to their performance when Democrats occupied the White House. Top of the list came Democrat Bill Clinton who oversaw the greatest ever stock market boom. Second comes Gerald Ford, an unelected short-term Republican president. Despite the cruel tale that Ford "could not walk and chew gum at the same time" the market responded well to his limitations. Next in line was Democrat Harry Truman, the big spender who believed in the role of government in kick-starting projects - a policy traditionally hated by stock markets. Yet they boomed. Republican Nixon was bottom of the table. Well, that was until George W came along. Nixon only managed an annualised stock market return of less than 1 per cent. But current market hero, the re-elected Republican George W Bush, takes the biscuit. During his first four years (2001 to late 2004) the S&P index has fallen by 4 per cent per annum, making him the only President in living memory to preside over a consistently falling market. And if you do not believe Forbes and the S&P index, confirmation is provided by the 2005 Stock Traders Almanac. Over the last 100 years the Dow Jones has recorded a 13.3 per cent annual return under the Democrats and only a 6.9 per cent gain under the Republicans. Game, set and match. Worse news still for the "Republicans are good for the economy" myth are the ratings given by Forbes to the various presidents for their management of US finances. The rankings are subjective, but the criteria used include inflation, unemployment, trade and budget deficits, growth and disposable income. In these rankings Republicans are relegated to the three bottom places. George W's father, George Senior, takes the wooden spoon, closely followed by Dwight Eisenhower and Richard Nixon. Democrats seize the top three places. Clinton tops the league, followed by Lyndon Johnson and John F Kennedy. Most striking of the findings is that economic success does not always coincide with market gains. Clinton leads on both counts, probably because he tackled the deficit, but Kennedy and Johnson's economic achievements are not reflected by equity booms. George W's problem is that he is possibly bottom of the league in both! In stock market terms he has been hopeless. He is lucky that Forbes left him out of the ratings. But in economic rankings he would probably score near to zero. Both the trade and budget deficits are out of control and the dollar is drifting. Bush has earned a reputation for business-friendly policies by taking short-term measures to please the rich. He has chopped taxes on capital gains and dividends. He has deliberately allowed the dollar to decline. He has recklessly ignored the twin deficits. He has been lucky. Kerry threatened to tax the super-rich, although he risked a roasting from his forthright wife, billionairess Teresa Heinz Kerry, the day he agreed to pursue this line. God Bless Kerry. He had hidden qualities. Any man with the courage to go home and face Teresa the night he decided to soak the rich, deserves more medals than the three Purple Hearts he won when wounded in Vietnam. Such token gestures from Kerry allowed Bush to pose as the only candidate to back business, as the stock market's darling. By Friday's close of trading, Wall Street was following a familiar pattern. The dollar was heading south. The Dow had scored a 3.5 per cent rise since the Republican victory. Beware the Bush bounce. 
