stocks
{  
    March 02 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/shaking-up-your-investment-portfolio-26121207.html }
Looking to take your stock holdings for a walk on the  wild side? Eddie Lennon asked six experts for oddball offerings that might run more than the... Looking to take your stock holdings for a walk on the wild side? Eddie Lennon asked six experts for oddball offerings that might run more than the usual risk The downside to the stock market, for many investors, is not the stress but the sheer boredom. Keeping an eye on the drip-drip progress of some stocks is about as gripping as watching paint dry especially when you could just as easily be playing with stocks that some call ``volatile'' but others regard as, well, exciting. That's not to say you should roll the dice on a stock that takes you on a gut-wrenching, one-way roller-coaster ride you're likely to remember for all the wrong reasons. But if you reckon it's time to spice up your portfolio by devoting, let's say, 10 to 20pc of your investment in stock that offers the chance of rapid profits ... where should you look? Here's what six Dublin stockbrokers recommend: * ``Cisco Systems, on the Nasdaq,'' advises Eamon Leonard, a research analyst with BCP. ``It's an internet equipment maker. It supplies the plumbing, so to speak, for the internet. They're the biggest player in the market and any company upgrading to the internet uses their products. It's the world's second largest company after Microsoft.'' BCP's recent Sharewatch also gave other US growth stocks a ``buy'' rating. They included IBM, Motorola, retailers Gap and Wal-Mart, American Home Products, Federal Express and Disney. * ``There's probably a select number of stocks in Europe and the US that have a unique exposure to the fastest growing trends, like WAP technology in mobile phone growth, or the internet,'' says Kevin McConnell, senior analyst with Bloxham. ``Cisco Systems is one stock that will benefit from either trend,'' he adds. ``Another would be Texas Instruments [on the Nasdaq], or Siemens here in Europe. Both make chips. ``Not only is Texas Instruments exposed to explosive mobile phone growth right across the world, but its chips are being used in the new mobile internet access devices which are being developed and are the favourite chip for the Taiwanese, who are the biggest producers.'' * On the ``super-speculative'' end, Brendan O'Connor of Campbell O'Connor recommends Pan Andean Resources, Cambridge Mineral Resources and Hereward Ventures. Both Pan Andean and Cambridge are on the AIM market in London. Pan Andean is chaired by John Teeling and conducts oil exploration in Bolivia. Cambridge, run by David Bramhill, is involved in diamond exploration, with a main focus in Donegal, Scotland and the Falkland Islands. Hereward Ventures on the Ofex market in London is a smaller exploration company, also run by Mr Bramhill. Colin Andrews, who was previously involved with Navan Resources, recently joined the board. Hereward has announced a gold exploration project in Bulgaria. * Cedric Cruess Callaghan, head of research at Dolmen Butler Briscoe, names SkyePharma on the London stock exchange. SkyePharma develops and manufactures advanced drug delivery solutions and has formed alliances with other pharmaceutical companies like SmithKline Beecham and Eli Lilly. The company recently announced positive Phase II results for DepoMorphine, and received approval to sell a new meningitis treatment in Canada. It has signed seven new feasibility contracts since acquiring DepoFoam technology in 1999. Mr Callaghan also mentions GTS (NYSE), the largest pan-European long-distance network operator with presence in over 50 European cities. Following a 25pc fall in the GTS share price in early February due to larger than expected 1999 losses, the company's chief executive, Brian Thompson (ex-chairman of Eircom), showed his faith in GTS by purchasing an extra $2m in stock. * Among the stocks tipped by John Kielthy, head of NCB's private client division, is Sun Microsystems, which he believes will benefit from the growth in internet servers, which Sun manufactures. He also favours AOL and the above-mentioned Cisco. In addition, NCB favour Nasdaq companies Baltimore Technologies and Trintech, which are also on the London and Neuer Makt (German) stock exchanges, respectively. * Gerry Hedigan, IT analyst with Goodbody Stockbrokers, reckons the Irish company with the most upside potential is the Nasdaq-listed SmartForce. Though the market reacted negatively to their new business model, Mr Hedigan says SmartForce should show improvement in their share price in the third quarter of 2000. He also cites Baltimore Technologies as one to watch. 
