stocks
{  
    November 22 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/variety-for-st-olivers-ty-27101207.html }
FOR the first time ever in Transition Year in St Olivers CC, a variety of different sports and subjects were introduced to all TY students during their PE class.These included Ceili Dancing, Judo, Self-Defence and The Stock Exchange.Ceili DancingThis year Ceili Dancing was introduced to all TY girls for the first time ever for four weeks during their PE class with 16 By Nadia Abidi, FOR the first time ever in Transition Year in St Oliver’s CC, a variety of different sports and subjects were introduced to all TY students during their PE class. These included Ceili Dancing, Judo, Self-Defence and The Stock Exchange. Ceili Dancing This year Ceili Dancing was introduced to all TY girls for the first time ever for four weeks during their PE class with 16 students in total taking part. The TY students were taught by a male teacher – David Moore. Each week David would teach the TY girls different types of dances that were associated with Ceili. At the end of the four weeks the 16 TY students were taught four different dances in the Ceili. All the girls had a great time and said the experience was really good fun and they would advise next year’s TY girls to give it a go and see what they think! Judo The Judo was a four week course that was only introduced to the TY boys. The boys had a choice between doing the Judo or sticking with their normal PE class which involved playing basketball and football. The boys were taught by two professional instructors Darren and Wayne. Darren and Wayne taught the boys the basics of Judo within the first two weeks then moved onto a more difficult level with the boys for the last two weeks. All the boys who took part in the Judo enjoyed themselves a lot and thought the experience was great. Self Defence Self-Defence was another sport/activity introduced to Transition Year. Unlike the Ceili Dancing and the Judo, the Self Defence was open to all TY Students, in fact instead of Self-Defence taking up the TY’s PE class it was part of your everyday subjects in class. TY is divided up into three classes with at least 22 students in each – TY Boyne, TY Star and TY Crescent. In Self Defence you are taught the basics which generally is how to defend yourself in a crisis or when you get involved in a fight, at least you will be able to protect yourself. Self Defence is a great course to take part in as it gives you an insight into how to stand up to others without there being any serious consequences involved. Apart from the physical side where you might be taught different defence moves there’s also the theory side where you learn what self-defence is and how to use it properly Stock Exchange The Stock Exchange was probably the most talked about program introduced to the Ty students than any other sport/activity introduced this year. The Stock Exchange is a program designed for students showing them what the stock exchange is all about. Basically it’s where thousands of people young and old buy shares on the internet and keep track of their progress on a daily basis. It’s a great way of making money but be aware of the dangers if you don’t keep track as shares tend to go up and down and this will result in profits increasing or profits decreasing. Apart from it being new to all TY students it was also new to the teachers. St Oliver’s are very proud to be the first school in the country to be introduced to this new program. Class TY Boyne were the first class to take part in the Stock Exchange program this year. Initially the program was meant to last 10 weeks, but due to technical difficulties with the computers in school the program only lasted five weeks. The problem was that the Stock Exchange system didn’t co-operate with the system in school therefore leading the system to be aborted. Although the system was failing to work on the St Oliver’s computers, class TY Boyne still did some work on the Stock Exchange. Their teacher Ms Gibney gave them a folder full of notes and explanations associated with the Stock Exchange. The students were also given assignments to do for homework regarding the Stock Exchange. This involved looking up a company that you might be interested in buying a share in. You had to get as much detail as possible about the company including The Company’s trade, Tracking the Share Price, how many shareholders there is, the history of the company and the current position of the company. Most students were getting very frustrated that the system wasn’t working and started making complaints. This in turn resulted in the whole class changing from the Stock Exchange to Self-Development for the last remaining 5 weeks. If you are going to get involved in the Stock Exchange make sure you research it in great detail before taking part and think of it as a long term investment as you don’t make money straight away, it takes time, but eventually you will make money! 
