stocks
{ Louise McBride 
    November 11 2007 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/stock-market-facing-slump-of-at-least-15pc-26331028.html }
international investment bank Merrill Lynch has warned that the Irish stock market will fall by at least 15 per cent over the next year. The warning comes after the ISEQ Index hit a new yearly low last week, falling to almost 30 per cent below its annual peak. Merrill Lynch's chief European investment strategist, Khuram Chaudhry, told the Sunday Independent that European stock markets could fall by between 10 and 15 per cent over the next year. However, he warned that the fallout on the Irish stock market could be even worse. "Analysts have downgraded profit forecasts for European markets," said Mr Chaudhry. "At the same time, economic activity is softening across Europe. Historically, this does not bode well for stronger markets over a 12-month view. We could easily see a 10 to 15 per cent downside in European markets over the next year. As Ireland is exposed to financial stocks and a consumer-oriented economy, it becomes more vulnerable and may well be at a greater risk." Mr Chaudhry was part of Merrill Lynch's strategy team at the end of 1999, when the investment bank was one of the few predicting a downturn in share prices. Back then, Merrill Lynch's forecast for the FTSE 100 at the end of 2000 was 6,300. The index eventually closed at 6,223. Mr Chaudhry said there had been a "considerable underperformance" by the Irish stock market over the last few months. "Most EU stock markets are at a seven-year high but not Ireland," he said. "It's primarily Irish banking and household stocks that have taken hits. If you are an investor and you are watching your shares on a daily basis, you may see your returns fall further over the next three to 12 months." AIB, Bank of Ireland, Irish Life & Permanent, and Anglo Irish Bank took more blows from the ongoing stock market turmoil last week, with their shares diving to about 40 per cent below their annual high. The share price of the home builders, McInerney Holdings, has almost halved since June. The sub-prime mortgage crisis in the US has been the main catalyst for the recent market fallouts. Harry White, who manages the Irish equity portfolio for KBC Asset Managers, said the Irish stock market was unlikely to recover until spring at the earliest. "We won't get a clear sign about what's happening in the US until spring so there won't be any recovery until then," said Mr White. "Until you get the sub-prime problems out of the way, I don't think that there will be any sustainable recovery." Ireland's consumer-oriented economy and high indebtedness make it particularly vulnerable in the ongoing slowdown, according to Mr Chaudhry. "What we have now is a crisis in confidence," said Mr Chaudhry. "People need to be able to value their sub-prime assets in the US but at the moment, that market has frozen up. It's difficult to know what the risks are. That uncertainty leads to more volatility. As the US housing market slows, stock markets are likely to suffer downward pressure. In countries where there is high consumer spending and debt exposure is high, the pressure is likely to be higher." Dermot Butler, chairman of the Dublin fund specialist, Custom House, said the Celtic Tiger "has got to the top of its bubble". "Ireland is a relatively small stock market and therefore probably more vulnerable than others," said Mr Butler. 
