stocks
{ Joe  Brennan 
    March 21 2008 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/regulator-swoops-to-root-out-the-rumour-mongers-26431754.html }
The Financial Regulator has launched a sweeping probe into irregular trading in Irish shares and vowed to "actively pursue" perpetrators of misleading rumours circulating in the market in recent days. The watchdog emailed compliance officers at Irish brokers yesterday afternoon demanding "copies of all broker statements, investment research comments and recommendations made regarding the shares of Anglo Irish Bank in respect of the period March 10-19, 2008 inclusive." The correspondence, seen by the Irish Independent, stipulatied that they send any comments on the stock over the coming week to the regulator at the same time that they are published or circulated. Anglo Irish Bank has been the main victim of rumour-mongering in the Irish market over the past week -- prompting a slew of brokerages to rush to its defence. The regulator is expected to extend the investigation to other financial stocks, which have also been rattled by rumour-mongering recently. In another day of drama on the stock exchange, leverage was sucked out of the Irish market yesterday as two leading providers of geared stock investments effectively pulled the plug on most of their business in Ireland as volatility reigned. Cantor Fitzgerald told Irish brokers it has stopped doing business in Irish financials, airlines and companies valued below €1bn. It has applied the same restriction to companies across Europe that fall outside benchmark indices such as the FTSE 100 in London, Germany's DAX 30 and the CAC 40 in France. Rival MF Global has demanded a dramatic increase in minimum deposits -- or margin requirements -- to cover CFD positions. Whereas previously clients would have had to stump up between 10pc and 25pc of the price of a stock, this has soared to between 75pc and 90pc. The MF Global changes apply to other markets across Europe. Dealers noted that stocks in which there are high CFD exposure were the subject of massive trading volume -- including McInerney, FBD and Anglo -- as holders scrambled to unwind positions or convert them into actual stock. This may force some mystery shareholders in Irish companies to declare their hands, as CFD holders are protected by a loophole in Irish stock exchange rules from making such disclosures. Earlier this week, the other main CFD provider in the Irish market, London-based IG Markets advised Irish brokers that their clients will need to put up a minimum deposit of 25pc on Anglo Irish Bank as of next Tuesday, compared to 10pc, previously. Other Irish banks move up to 20pc. Crackdown The Financial Regulator's crackdown on potential market regulation abuse came hot on the heels of a similar move from its British counterpart on Thursday as HBOS's stock succumbed to unfounded speculation it was looking to tap the Bank of England for emergency funding. The fear is that most of the negative market chatter has been used to support "short" positions, where market participants are betting on a stock falling in value. As a sign of how seriously the issue is being treated, the Central Bank governor, John Hurley, which has responsibility for overall financial stability, waded in yesterday afternoon saying: "I strongly support the actions being taken by our colleagues in the Financial Regulator in relation to investigations into trading in financial shares over recent days. "As I have outlined in recent statements, the Irish banking sector remains robust and has no material exposures to the sub prime market." Meanwhile, Swiss brokerage UBS, a noted bear on Irish financial stocks in recent months, upgraded its stance yesterday on Anglo Irish Bank to 'neutral' from 'sell' in valuation grounds following the stock's recent sell-off. Still, UBS remains concerned about Anglo's earnings outlook on concerns about UK and Irish commercial property sectors, and as lenders' own funding costs have spiked as a result of the credit crisis. UBS prompted a slump in Irish banking stocks in late January as it downgraded Anglo and Allied Irish Banks each to outright 'sell' and Bank of Ireland to 'neutral' as it warned that they faced "significant risk" to earnings due to Irish commercial property possibly being overvalued by as much as 30pc. 
