stocks
{ Joe  Brennan 
    July 19 2008 03:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/irelands-richest-man-is-hanging-tough-after-billion-loss-26462873.html }
He may be the richest man in the country, but Sean Quinn has known for some time that he is no Warren Buffett. Having racked up €70m losses at the insurance arm of his business empire in the years following the technology crash, the entrepreneur famously sacked himself in 2002 as fund manager at Quinn-Direct. Mr Buffett, the world's most legendary stock-picker, managed, on the other hand, to avoid much of the dotcom carnage by sticking to his central tenet of not investing in industries he doesn't understand. But Mr Quinn's previous investment woes haven't stopped the tycoon from taking a punt in a personal capacity -- though his main investment, a leveraged 15pc derivative position built up in Anglo Irish Bank over the past 20 months, has cost him dearly. The billionaire is estimated to be nursing up to a €1bn paper loss from contracts for difference (CFD) interest in the business bank. Anglo has lost almost three-quarters of its value from last year's peak, when it was valued at almost €13.3bn. Investors It first emerged in January last year that Mr Quinn, worth an estimated €4.7bn, had built up a 5pc stake in Anglo through CFDs. The attraction of these instruments is that investors can buy an interest in a stock for an initial outlay of as little as 10pc of its market price. In addition, a CFD holder can avoid normal disclosure rules, which require shareholders to declare their hand when they have breached a 3pc holding in an Irish-listed company. Like buying a house with a 10pc deposit, CFD holders can see their equity double if the value of the asset increases by just 10pc. But when share prices fall, the holder of these sophisticated derivatives must cover the losses in what's termed a 'margin call' from his CFD provider. Market sources believe Mr Quinn has already faced margin calls for as much two-thirds of his leveraged exposure. And rather than take the final hit with financial stocks on their knees globally, he decided this week that he is going to tough it out, and convert his CFDs into ordinary stock. It's a contrarian call, for sure, as the credit crisis continues to rage, property prices spiral downwards and bad loan losses begin to tick up across Irish banks. But the entrepreneur seems to have adopted the "Oracle of Omaha's" central mantra. After all, the man who started off quarrying cement from his family's farm in Derrylin in 1973 with a £200 loan, built up his cement-to-hotels-to-insurance conglomerate with the help of his extensive banking relationships. His respect for how Anglo Irish Bank, headed up by David Drumm, operates is well known. This regard was evident when the media-shy entrepreneur gave a rare public speech a little over a year ago, his first in over a decade. Known for taking on the big boys in industries such as cement and insurance, Mr Quinn said his strategy has always been to look at who is operating in the industry. Challenge "If it was a David Drumm of Anglo or a Michael O'Leary of Ryanair that were in that business, we would try to avoid it," he said. "If there was somebody else in it, we might take that to be a healthy challenge -- and we always welcome a healthy challenge." His view hasn't wavered. "The (Quinn) family regards these shareholdings in Anglo Irish Bank as long-term holdings with significant opportunity for capital growth over such a period," the billionaire said last week as he stuck by his Anglo investment. "In recent years, we have been highly impressed with Anglo's ability to out-perform the banking sector in terms of profit growth, and we are confident this trend can be maintained over the longer term, notwithstanding the current difficulties being experienced in international banking." Mr Quinn could achieve more than putting a stop to the margin calls by winding down his CFD position and acquiring the underlying stock. The move could squeeze some of the hedge funds in the market that have made tens of millions out of the stock's decline. The percentage of Anglo stock on loan stood at 15.2pc in June, according to figures from Euroclear, the securities settlement firm. Loan stock is most commonly used for 'short selling'. This involves an investor borrowing shares from, say, a pension fund, selling them in the hope they will fall in value before buying them back and returning them to the lender. The price difference is pocketed as profit. CFD providers usually hedge their exposure to clients' positions by holding the underlying stocks -- making them an obvious port of call for people looking to borrow shares. But by taking direct control of 15pc of Anglo shares, Mr Quinn may end up removing a chunk of normally 'shortable stock' from circulation. Mr Quinn didn't pick a bad week publicly to row in behind Anglo. The stock has soared almost 13pc over the past five days as financials globally benefited from better-than-expected earnings reports from US bellwethers such as JP Morgan, Citigroup and Wells Fargo. Market sources said the upward momentum in Anglo and Irish Life & Permanent, another Irish bank beloved by short sellers in recent times, was propelled as those betting on their shares falling were forced to close their positions. This is a phenomenon known as a 'short squeeze'. And though few stock market pundits believe that the bounce in financials is more than a bear market rally, Mr Quinn is confident that he will be in the money in the medium to long term. In the meantime, Mr Quinn certainly toasted the Supreme Court's ruling this week to set aside the Government's 'risk equalisation' scheme for the Irish private health insurance market. The scheme would have forced Quinn Healthcare -- which took over BUPA Ireland last year -- to pay the VHI as much as €30m to compensate for its higher proportion of elderly and at-risk subscribers. The news comes as a relief. But the earnings of Quinn Insurance, the jewel in his crown of businesses, are more susceptible to the vagaries of the stock market. It emerged during the week that the insurer saw its pre-tax profits tumble 25pc in 2007 to €245m, dragged down as returns from its investment portfolio almost halved to €84m. Few in the country will be praying as hard for a sustained market recovery as Mr Quinn. 
