stocks
{ Paul  Melia 
    December 15 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/cod-stocks-in-irish-sea-have-hit-new-low-report-warns-26499529.html }
STOCKS of cod, whiting and haddock are still in trouble, despite an improvement in the health of fishing stocks in Irish waters. Cod stocks have "virtually collapsed" in the Irish Sea, a report warns, while stocks of cod, whiting and haddock are "severely depleted" in Irish fishing grounds west of Scotland. And the Marine Institute says the cod stocks show "little sign" of recovery, and warns that stocks could become so low that the fish will disappear from dinner plates because it will not be commercially viable to catch. But the Marine Institute's Stock Book, which gives an overview of the state of Irish fish species, says there is good and bad news for the fishing industry. While cod, whiting and haddock stocks are in trouble, stocks of mackerel are up by 33pc because of the introduction of young fish. Prawn stocks are also in a healthy state, which is good news for the industry. Compiled from scientific surveys, port landings and observations by industry, the Stock Book contains management advice on more than 80 fish stocks, many of which are managed by the EU under the Common Fisheries Policy. "The role of science in supporting a sustainable fishing industry is to answer the fundamental question of how many fish can we safely remove from any particular stock today while leaving enough fish in the sea to reproduce and support the fishery into tomorrow," said Marine Institute CEO Dr Tony Heffernan. The Stock Book also says: l Monkfish stocks are stable west of Scotland, as are hake and monkfish in the Celtic Sea. l The mackerel and horse mackerel stocks are stable, but there is concern about the blue whiting stock which is decreasing. l There are also concerns about herring stock in the Celtic Sea and the north west, with 'serious concerns' about the spurdog and skate which are "considered severely depleted". The last available data, from 2004, shows that 700,000 tonnes of fish were harvested from Irish waters by international fleets with a value of €0.5bn. Total Irish landings were 324,000 tonnes, worth €194m. The Stock Book notes that while there has been a 'general improvement' in stocks, there are still concerns about many fish species. Even so, the amount of fish allowed to be landed is about 50pc higher than scientific advice. A spokeswoman for the Marine Institute said that species in danger would not become extinct, but could become far less common. Exploit "The stocks may reach such a low level that they will not be commercially viable to exploit," she said. "Climate change may force certain species to migrate further north and we may see new southern species take their place. "Long-term management plans, where scientists, industry and managers develop plans that allow stocks to recover, and develop ways in which they can be harvested sustainably, are needed." She added: "Fish has a great brand and is a healthy food source. We should continue to eat fish, but ask the question 'are these fish sustainably exploited and are there management plans developed?" 
