stocks
{  
    January 03 2015 08:08 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/could-you-beat-the-chimp-in-the-stock-picking-stakes-30880014.html }
It's that time of year again when we ask celebrities and well-known stock pickers to pitch their business acumen against a blindfolded monkey. If he's in luck, the monkey wins €1,000 for his favourite charity. If not, his top opponent does. It is a simple game. The monkey throws four darts at a board with stocks on it. The celebrities then take their bets on the four stocks they expect to do best in 2015. After a year, we find out whose stocks have done best. The winner gets €1,000 from Paddy Power for a charity of their choice. The competition begins with prices quoted on the stock market on January 1, 2015, and ends in the run up to Christmas 2015. The Monkey The first of the monkey's four darts lands on the banana company Fyffes, whose share price ended 2014 slightly up on the start of the year, despite the collapse of a proposed merger with Chiquita. The simian also selects oil and gas explorer Petroceltic, its share price lost nearly a quarter of its value last year after talks about a takeover by Dragon Oil fell apart. Its third dart lands on property investment group Hibernia REIT, which ended 2014 slightly down. Its fourth goes to Dublin and medical device company Mainstay, a new entrant for the Irish Stock Exchange last year. Marketer Johnston is brand manager at food and culture website Lovin Dublin and the former star of RTE show Fade Street. Her charity is guidedogs.ie. The Dublin-based foodie's first choice is dairy company Glanbia.  "There's been a lot of announcements from Glanbia this year - the most recent being the opening of their €7.8m milk protein plant in Cavan. Europe and the US are their biggest markets, but they've a huge export plan with Asia and beyond," she says. Next up is Bank of Ireland. "Something none of us can deny is that there's faith in the property market again. The restoration of low property prices and the decrease in their bad debts has been helping Bank of Ireland's balance sheet." She would also put money on Ryanair, which implemented a hugely successfully marketing campaign this year aimed at winning back customers annoyed by punitive fees and harsh treatment. "Ryanair is really focusing on its customer experience, rolling out a huge campaign in 2014. They're also chasing after the business category, which is a whole new audience for Ryanair. Definitely ones to watch for next year." Johnston's fourth choice is CPL, the recruitment firm founded by Dublin business legend Anne Heraty. The country's slow but sure recovery will have a real impact on this stock, she says.  "The notable increase in hiring will impact recruitment companies like CPL next year." She also singles out top executive Lisa Holt. "Lisa Holt is a very smart woman and will help drive this company to success over the next 12 months." Award-winning chef Neven Maguire was last year's winner of the competition. As business-savvy as he is creative, Maguire is building up a Jamie Oliver-style food/media hybrid empire. His interests now span a cookery school, his famous restaurant, 11 books at the last count, a television show and a successful sideline on the cookery demonstration circuit. His gave his winnings in 2014 to the St Vincent de Paul and chooses the same charity for 2015. He is also sticking with the favourites of his winning stocks from last year. "Don't fix it if it ain't broke" he says. "I was delighted to win last year and I am confident about the same companies for 2015." First up is a natural choice for any foodie - diary producer Glanbia. The chef's second vote goes to INM. His third choice is Paddy Power, followed by Ryanair. Darren Gleeson is goalkeeper for the Tipperary Allstar senior hurling team and also runs a financial advisory business based in Nenagh, Tipperary. His charity is the Jack and Jill Foundation. His first pick is Aer Lingus, which at the time of writing has just rejected a rumoured €1bn bid for British Airways parent IAG. "Speculation regarding a follow up bid from IAG should help with an upward trend on the share price in the early part of 2015," says Gleeson. He would also put money on insurer  FBD, which had something of an annus  horribilis in 2014 after issuing two profit warnings.  "Could be a longer term play here," he says. "We might not see much action until the second half of 2015 - but it is still worth having, given that its shares are priced around €11 right now, compared to a year high of €19.40." Bank of Ireland is his third pick. Like Johnston, Gleeson cites the recovery of the property market as a motivation.  "Its return to profitability, coupled with more stability in the Irish property market, and the potential for quantitative easing by the ECB should drive earnings and the share price forward this year." His last choice is Mincon, the drill bit maker whose machinery helped rescued the famously trapped Mayan miners a couple of years ago. "It will be an interesting company to follow" he says. Ryan is head of Social Entrepreneurs Ireland, which funds businesses aimed at social improvement. He made the Sunday Independent's '30 Under 30 list before he turned the big three-oh this year. His charity of choice is Educate Together. "I believe that for companies to be financially sustainable they need to be socially sustainable, and also that Ireland's economy will continue to improve in 2015," says Ryan. "I am mixing things up with two domestically focussed companies and two more internationally focussed companies". His first choice is recruiter CPL, followed by another vote for beleaguered insurer FBD. "The improving employment situation in Ireland should see CPL perform well, and I'm betting that FBD Holdings have sorted themselves out and will only improve in 2015." He also puts his metaphorical money on insulation manufacturer Kingspan. "Kingspan is a quality Irish name with environmental sustainability at the core of its business model." His final vote goes to Kerry Group because of its focus on sustainable food production. Tim is general manager of Hailo Ireland, the wildly successful taxi ordering app that richer US rival Uber has not managed to wrestle the top spot from in Dublin. Founded in London, Ireland was its second-ever market. It is available in Cork, Galway, Limerick and Dublin. His top stock pick for 2015 is the Dalata Hotel Group, which floated earlier this year with the intention of buying and building hotels around the country rather than just managing them. "They are building an exceptional portfolio of hotels led by a successful management team," he says. Flag carrier Aer Lingus gets his second vote, partly because of the plummeting cost of jet fuel and partly because it may well be bought in 2015. "Aer Lingus because of the likelihood of continued low fuel prices well into 2015 and the interest from abroad as an acquisition target." He is the first to put Bank of Ireland on his list. "Bank of Ireland due to its lower exposure to tracker mortgages, a declining stock of problem loans and improving profitability."  Sunday Indo Business 
