stocks
{ Michael Gottstein 
    January 22 2008 08:28 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/watch-your-stocking-rates-in-face-of-nitrates-directive-26346356.html }
Remember all the noise about the Nitrates Directive? Well, the noise may have died down somewhat but the directive is still there and it has implications on how you farm. One of the most important aspects of the Nitrates Directive is stocking rate. This has traditionally been measured in ewes per acre or ewes per hectare. From a nitrates point of view, all stocking rate figures are measured as kilogrammes of organic nitrogen/ha. This is a measure of how much nitrogen is excreted by each animal on the farm. It is up to you, as the farmer, to make sure that your stocking rate (measured in kilogrammes of organic nitrogen per hectare) stays within the limits required under the Nitrates Directive. When calculating your stocking rate, you must include all stock. On mixed enterprise farms this will involve calculating the organic nitrogen produced by cattle and sheep. So what are the limits and what action is required if I am over a particular limit? 1) Organic nitrogen on the farm is above 250kg (19 lowland ewes /ha) -- in this situation you will have to reduce your stocking rate by either getting rid of some stock or getting extra land. The bottom line is you must reduce the stocking rate to 250kg or below. 2) Organic nitrogen on the farm is between 170-250kg (13-19 lowland ewes/ha) -- in this instance you must apply for a derogation from the Department of Agriculture and Food. This is a kind of licence with certain conditions attached, which allows you to farm at this level. 3) Organic nitrogen less than 170kg (less than 13 lowland ewes/ha) -- no derogation required, but you still have to farm within the rules of the Nitrates Directive. There are a couple of deadlines approaching from a nitrates point of view. The first deadline is for those who applied for a derogation in 2007. If you are one of those who applied for a derogation in 2007, then you have until the end of February to send your fertiliser accounts to the department in Johnstown Castle, Wexford. If you did not need a derogation last year, but feel that you will require one this year, you must apply to the department before March 31. Applications for derogations have to be made at the start of the year. This means you will have to plan your livestock numbers now to check if you will need one. The majority of sheep farmers do not need a derogation. Anyone participating in REPS 3 and farming according to their REPS plan will not need a derogation. But some intensive sheep farms or intensive farms with a cattle and sheep enterprise may find that they could possibly creep over the 170kg organic nitrogen limit. So how do you get started? The first step is to figure out how much land you will have for this year. You will get that off last year's single farm payment application (provided that you have not lost land or taken on additional land in the meantime). The next step is to work out your stocking rate. Work out how many animals you will have on the holding at the end of each month. This will give you a good average and you can use this figure to see if you will be close to any of the limits. If there are any cattle on the holding, you will be getting a statement of organic nitrogen and phosphorous produced by cattle on your holding in 2007 from the department in the next week. Provided that your cattle details are correct on the CMMS, this will give you a very accurate calculation of the organic materials produced by cattle on your holding in 2007. If your stock numbers have not changed since last year then this is a good start. Remember that it does not, however, include the organic nitrogen and phosphorous produced by sheep on your holding. You will have to do this calculation yourself, as the details of non-bovines are not held on the CMMS. Derogations cannot be applied for retrospectively. If you are running an intensively stocked farm, it is essential that you do the sums before the end of March. Contact your local adviser if you need assistance with the calculation. 
