stocks
{  
    April 19 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/three-months-to-cash-in-on-grass-growth-26009271.html }
OVER the next three months or so cattle should gain about 100kg liveweight.  This is the cheapest 100kg that can be got in cattle farming so don't miss out on the opportunity. Grazing management in this period has to achieve twin objectives: (1) to optimise animal performance when the going is good; (2) to ensure that pasture quality is maintained into the mid-summer period. This should be done by keeping the demand/supply balance right. If the supply of grass exceeds demand, cattle will impose their own stocking rate on pasture by only grazing down part of the area and leaving patches of tall grass that go to seed. This works all right for a time, as there is adequate leafy grass available to meet demand. However, as feed demand increases and grass growth slows the trouble starts when animals are forced to eat into the tall, mature herbage. Intake and performance fall. Control As soil temperatures rise over the next three weeks we will start the period of maximum growth for the year. Keeping control of grass supply and demand by appropriate stocking rates and rotational grazing will allow good performance without wasting pasture and will also ensure continued leafy grass in mid-summer. Stocking rates are determined by the soil type and nitrogen use. Good land with moderate levels of nitrogen (180 units N/ac/annum) will carry 2,000-2,500 kg animal liveweight per hectare at turnout and up to mid-July. This is the equivalent of five to six yearlings/ha (2 to 2.5/ac) of 400kg each. Make an estimate of the weight of your cattle at pasture, tot up the total liveweight and divide by the number of hectares of grazing available. How close are you to 2000kg/ha? Perhaps all the hectares are not good land, in that case adjust the area down to the equivalent amount of good land. Even when stocking rates are carefully set there is still a need for some control over the amount of ground allotted to stock in order to overcome periods of variable growth. A simple rotational system consisting of about six paddocks or fields will provide the required control. At high stocking rates a 10 to 12 paddock system gives additional benefit. In Scotland, where continuous set stocking is common, a buffer grazing system, (where about 15pc of the grazing area is held in reserve for periods of poor growth or difficult grazing conditions) allows the grazing area to be adjusted to achieve the objective of keeping the supply/demand balance within limits. Supply and demand From now until the end of May large changes in growth can occur in the course of a week. It is useful to walk all around the grazing area about once a week to estimate growth rate. Put some simple system in place to estimate the daily animal requirements. For example, count the number of days it takes each group of cattle to graze down a fixed area and, from this, estimate the number of grazing days available on the total grazing area. At present, pasture supply should be about 14 days ahead of stock. If there is more than 18 days supply ahead of stock there is an oversupply developing so stock numbers can be increased or the land area reduced. When ground is dry, utilisation is high at 75-80pc whereas a week of wet weather can reduce utilisation to 50pc and easily get rid of a grass surplus. If the number of grazing days ahead of stock falls to 10 days there is a risk of a shortage. Extra nitrogen to boost growth would be the first solution but bringing in extra feed such as baled silage for some stock is the quickest way back to balance as it allows the rotation cycle to be lengthened and grass cover to accumulate. Priority stock Over the next three months, give the finishing cattle priority access to the best pasture. This allows cattle to be finished quickly while prices are good. Suckler cows can be used occasionally to clear off pastures that go stemmy, without affecting their performance, provided they are not continuously used for this purpose. 
