stocks
{  
    July 14 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/weekly-round-up-dismal-week-sees-big-slump-in-dublin-market-26304417.html }
IF there were any lingering doubts about the softening in sentiment towards Irish stocks, then this week's market performance has surely dispelled them. The ISEQ Overall index of Irish shares slumped by more than 300 points, or 3.4pc, as the market here just failed yesterday to halt a five-day losing streak. But as Irish stocks continued to present a fairly forlorn appearance, markets elsewhere had a fairly decent week. This was especially true of the top American stocks. Their proxy, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, broke records almost daily, scaling heights last seen in October 2000. The index ended the week a further 2pc higher. Investors in US stocks were cheered by strong consumer sales and the belief that the US economy appears to be in better shape than was feared, while sentiment continues to be lifted by merger and acquisition activity. European stocks did not fare quite so favourably, but after a couple of ropey days mid-week, they ended up by about 0.5pc over the week. Leading markets in London, Paris and Frankfurt clearly benefited from the strength in US stocks. Dublin Without the bounce to sentiment provided by buoyant US stocks, it is anybody's guess how low the Dublin market might have slid this week. As it was, the index touched levels not seen since the autumn before rallying to finish at a four-month low. Financials have been the dominant feature in what is now a six-week retreat in stock values. The ISEQ has fallen more than 8pc since the start of June and is off 3pc year to date, in sharp contrast with most international markets which are showing moderate gains. The changed outlook for housing and the knock-on effect this is having on house building, house prices and mortgage demand have impacted sentiment towards the financials and have now also hit the building-related stocks. They were the main cause of the sharp reversal in the index this week, with disappointing results from housebuilder Abbey compounded by Grafton Group's expectations of more challenging times to come in the second half. Yesterday's profit warning from C&C merely added to market woes. The ISEQ finished just 0.2pc down at 9.134.8 yesterday, with recovery in the banks just failing to cancel out weakness in building-related and selected other general stocks - notably C&C, which crashed 16pc to €8.55, its lowest point in 10 months. Grafton remained out of favour following Thursday's trading update, falling a further 1.4pc to €9.8. Kingspan fell back another 3.2pc to €18.45 and Readymix lost 4pc after a profit warning. CRH also eased fractionally but has remained aloof from the the slowdown in Irish housing by virtue of its geographic spread and the view in some quarters that it could yet be in play. With the exception of AIB, financials rallied. Both Anglo and Bank of Ireland rose more than one per cent, while Irish Life & Permanent gained 2pc. Europe European stocks closed up for the second straight day, with banks among the main gainers after a Dutch court removed much of the legal uncertainty around a bidding battle for ABN AMRO, which rose 1.5pc. Royal Bank of Scotland gained 0.9pc and Barclays added 0.8pc, with the banks seen moving quickly to clarify their plans after the Dutch Supreme Court ruled that ABN can proceed with its sale of US unit LaSalle Bank. The FTSEurofirst 300 index of leading European shares rose 0.4pc to 1,627.7, its highest close since November 2000. It ended below the day's high of 1,635.6. Germany's DAX index rose 0.5pc, hitting a record high earlier, while Britain's FTSE-100 rose 0.3pc and France's CAC 40 gained 0.2pc. US stocks Blue-chip American stocks were lifted by General Electric's expanded share repurchase plan and a stronger-than-expected reading of consumer sentiment. These news items helped temper worries about the economy's health. The report on consumer sentiment followed a government report that showed retail sales suffered their biggest monthly drop in nearly two years in June. 
