stocks
{ Kristan Burness 
    September 24 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/how-to-make-the-perfect-risotto-according-to-kristan-burness-37330364.html }
When you're making risotto, the ingredients sing, so always use the best you can buy. Always be careful to first gently toast the rice, not burn it! And only add the stock as the rice needs it - when it has soaked up the previous ladle-full, and stir gently all the time. With a risotto, I prefer not to use garlic or shallots. Risotto is a rich and flavourful dish, and does not need them. Instead of using veal stock at the end, you could make a reduction with dried wild mushrooms or porcini, and some chicken stock. To turn this recipe into a mushroom risotto, add 300g of wild mushrooms to the cooked and rested risotto. Then add truffle oil and shaved summer truffles with the rest of the final ingredients. A spritz of lemon juice is also good, but only use a small amount, so the acid enhances the risotto's flavour without overwhelming it. Serves 4 You will need: 1.1L hot white chicken stock (chicken stock made without coloured seasonings) 1 tablespoon good olive oil 400g arborio risotto rice 2 glasses of very dry white wine or Vermouth 40g butter Salt and freshly ground black pepper 80g mascarpone 50g grated Parmesan, plus Parmesan shavings to garnish 100ml reduced veal stock 100ml cream 1 Put the hot white chicken stock in a pot and simmer it on the hob. While the stock is simmering, heat the olive oil in a wide pan. 2 When the oil is hot, add the arborio risotto rice. There is no need to stir it, just gently toss the pan. When you hear the rice pop, add the dry white wine or the Vermouth, whichever you are using. 3 Stir constantly until the alcohol evaporates. Once the coarse alcohol smell is gone, it's time to add the chicken stock. 4 Gradually add the stock, ladle by ladle, stirring and feeding the rice. Only add a new ladle-full of stock when the previous one has been absorbed. After about eight minutes, the rice will have doubled in size. 5 Now add half the butter, and keep adding the chicken stock, ladle by ladle, and stirring. 6 Check the rice regularly, and once it is al dente, remove the pan from the heat, and allow the risotto to relax for five minutes. Season to taste with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Then add the mascarpone, the remaining butter, the 50g of grated Parmesan, the veal stock, and enough cream to achieve your preferred consistency. Serve the risotto on a wide plate for authenticity, and garnish with the Parmesan shavings.    Kristan Burness is head chef at The Dalkey Duck, Castle St, Dalkey,  Co Dublin, tel: (01) 552-8605, or see thedalkeyduck.ie   Sunday Independent 
