stocks
{  
    December 30 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/investment-tactics-to-suit-different-personality-types-26102992.html }
What sort of investor are you? NCB stockbrokers' new  website gives some tips to guide you through the maze. EVERY investor brings his or her unique approach to investment. But there are a number of commonly identifiable investment styles or tactics used in trading stocks. VALUE INVESTING A value investor looks to pick up stock that is trading at a bargain, i.e. a stock that is undervalued relative to its intrinsic worth or future prospects. Value investors hope that others will eventually recognise an undervalued stock's true worth, buy it and thus cause its price to rise. When such a stock appears to be fully valued, the value investor will sell it and start searching for other bargains, and so the cycle continues. Why would a stock be undervalued? Well, the stock may be small or little known and the resulting lack of buzz may create a bargain for a diligent value investor. The sector to which the stock belongs may also have fallen out of favour. So how do you spot a bargain? You can examine the company's fundamentals and several key ratios - such as price/earnings (p/e) and dividend yield - to arrive at a true value for the company. You may find that an apparently undervalued stock may, in fact, be fully valued on closer examination. If you do not like taking risks, then you could well be a value investor. Value investing is a relatively low-risk strategy. Value investing requires a lot of research work. First of all, you have to identify the value stocks by monitoring the financial press or investing sites. Then decide if the company has the merit and if its fundamentals are heading in the right direction. CONTRARIAN INVESTING A contrarian investor ignores market trends and buys neglected and depressed stocks of well managed companies. They tend to select the opposite of what most people are investing in at the moment by looking for healthy companies in unpopular industries or overlooked firms. Stock that is falling in price becomes more attractive but on rising in price becomes less so. By purchasing the stock of companies that are out of favour, the contrarian can realise profits when these companies regain popularity. Stocks with low market rates and low p/e ratios are particular favourites with contrarians. However, the contrarian must take care that a low stock price is really undeserved; the contrarian should also consider the company's balance sheet, management and market structure before making an investment decision. Contrarian investing is a relatively high risk trading strategy. If you are risk averse, then this is not the best investing approach for you. It requires a lot of patience, discipline and conviction. Going against the mob psychology may not be your style. MOMENTUM INVESTING Momentum investors buy stocks that have 'momentum' - companies that are improving at a faster rate than the market or than the market currently expects. The reasoning behind this strategy is that even though the stock may be already highly priced, investors may not yet have priced in all positive news about the stock or further good news about the stock that is expected. Momentum investors also look for average companies that are becoming good or good companies that are becoming great. It is in this transition that momentum investors make their money. You may have heard the phrase "buy low, sell high". Well, momentum investors "buy high and sell higher" and thus they risk losing more money than investors who buy undervalued stock. Although momentum investing may generate profits in the short term, it is a low return, high risk strategy in the long term. GROWTH INVESTING The growth investor picks the stocks of companies whose sales and earnings are expected to grow substantially. The rationale is this: if earnings are growing so, too, should the share price. If you do not like taking risks, you might consider this trading strategy. Growth investing is relatively low risk. Growth stocks are usually those of smaller companies that have grown significantly in the past three to four years and are expected to continue growing for the next few years. Is growth investing for you? If you expect to make a quick killing in the short term, growth investing is not for you. Growth investing is typically for the long term; it carries the expectation that growth stocks will pay dividends and capital appreciation in the future. NCB's new online investment guide can be found on its main website: www.ncbdirect.com 
