stocks
{ PAT BOYLE 
    August 12 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/exploring-resource-stocks-will-keep-you-on-tenterhooks-26076815.html }
EXPLORATION stocks have always carried a health  warning  they are not for widows or orphans. It is a  warning that should be repeated again and again  only those who can afford to loose substantial sums should enter the fray. Over the last couple of years, brokers found fewer and fewer takers for their mining and oil stocks. Attention instead focussed on the technology stars with their esoteric names and even more esoteric business models. Granted some of them made a modicum of sense. Companies like Baltimore seemed to have a legitimate business plan, and if you believed in the concept of the web and its future domination of all forms of commerce, then it made sense to weigh in and buy the stock. Unfortunately for many investors, the brokers never thought that something so new should carry a health warning of its own. The fact that some fund managers, steeped in tradition and commonsense, chose to ignore the technology bubble completely should have been warning enough. Those fund managers who did manage to avoid the stampede into technology did so for one very good reason. They simply could not fathom the valuations, how they were arrived at, or how they could possibly have been justified. Now, as they survey the wreckage of the sector, these individuals have cause to celebrate. Analysts have been trying to explain the fallout which has occurred in the sector since the heady days of March 2000. A sharp fall in IT spending by corporates, together with unsustainable growth forecasts were among the prime culprits. Even now, analysts believe that earnings forecasts are overly optimistic, and that further falls in technology stocks can be expected. Coincidentally, while the technology sector has fallen out of bed, the exploration stocks are enjoying a rally of substantial proportions. According to analysts, this is because of the realisation among investors that they offer a better 'punt' than technology stocks. Granted technology stocks have come off the lows they suffered in March and April, but since then exploration stocks have risen by some 20pc as measured by the Davy Stockbrokers Irish Resource Share Index. Apart from the punting value, the fundamental picture for exploration stocks has also changed. Companies are now moving into a more mature zone with projects coming on stream and generating real earnings. A decade ago, all of the focus was on exploration campaigns, but now it is more likely to be on development programmes. At present, there are 16 resource firms quoted on the Dublin market, and most of these are either producing something, or have development projects in train. The stars include the likes of Tullow, Navan Mining, Aminex and Ivernia. These have been around for quite a while, and certainly you could accuse none of them of having achieved success overnight. There is a second tier which promise much but have yet to deliver. Among them are the likes of Bula, Arcon, Celtic, Dragon Oil, Kenmare and Minmet. Then there is a third tier, which have promised much but consistently failed to deliver. But at least they have survived, a message which should not be lost on potential investors -how many of today's quoted technology stocks will still be around in 10 year's time. The answer must be few, particularly if analysts are openly stating that even Baltimore will eventually disappear as an independent entity. Any investor with a memory stretching back more than a nano-second should realise that when stocks start moving off the market, either through mergers or takeovers, the outlook for the original investors is poor at best, and more often disastrous. Little wonder then that the punters have turned their back on the sector, and are making their way back to the exploration companies. The devil you know may not promise much, but at least you know he will be around to tempt you out of more hard earned cash when the good news starts to flow! 
