stocks
{ JIM AUGHNEY 
    January 06 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/markets-are-volatile-as-tech-stocks-reassessed-26125527.html }
STOCK markets around the world again suffered a dose of New Year nerves yesterday as concerns about interest rates continued to make an impact and the gloss came off many technology stocks. However, the volatility in many leading shares was varied across the world, with the Far Eastern markets closing down, followed by the European markets, but with the principal US markets gaining in confidence as the day progressed. In Europe, most markets were influenced by concerns over rising bond rates and a decision by the European Central Bank not to raise rates for the time being did little to calm investors' nerves. In London, leading shares like British Telecom, down 6.2pc, and Vodafone, down 5.2pc, lost some of the gloss of their end 1999 valuations, while more heavyweight stocks like Powergen surged 3.2pc and National Power gained 6.3pc. London's fledgling technology sector has fallen by 7.2pc over the past two days. Anglo-Dutch computer services company CMG fell nearly 11pc and Sage, Logica and Misys all fell. Strategists said the corrections among high-tech stocks in London and elsewhere in Europe were a predictable correction, given the skewed valuations which arose toward the end of last year. ``The shake-out in world equities looks to us like a healthy correction of some of the excesses of late 1999,'' said Paul O'Connor, equity strategist at CSFB. He predicted further falls in many London stocks. In Dublin, shares continued their weak trend, and dealers said there was an absence of institutional investors, who are likely to await the clearer trends for 2000 before committing themselves. Ironically, on the day that the Exchequer Returns showed buoyant tax return figures, the main banks had a mixed day AIB was down and Bank of Ireland rose slightly. A surprisingly large fall in German unemployment was seen as a further sign of recovery in Europe's largest economy, but added to fears about a rise in euro interest rates before April. The German jobless total fell by 69,000 last month, compared with analysts' forecasts of a 15,000 drop. The euro held its gains against the dollar, adding another quarter cent to top $1.0325. As expected, the European Central Bank left rates unchanged at its fortnightly meeting yesterday, but a majority of economists polled by Reuters now expect a rise of up to half a point in the current quarter. Wall Street continued its topsy-turvy ride, and after opening nervously the Dow Jones Industrial Average was ahead by 90 points in the afternoon. By the close, it had gained 124 points. US stocks stayed mixed throughout the day as Wall Street sought refuge in blue chips and sold off growth stocks as concerns about higher interest rates rattled markets. ``There is no doubt that we are seeing rotation out of technology stocks,'' said Chris Dickerson, analyst at Global Market Strategists.  ``People in stocks have all of a sudden decided to pay attention again to the bond market.'' 
