stocks
{ INSIDE FILES 
    May 24 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/braced-for-more-dips-on-the-techie-rollercoaster-26118631.html }
The market's herd instinct has meant that techie stocks  have reached excessive highs and lows in a number of  months. Charlie Weston hears mixed... The market's herd instinct has meant that techie stocks have reached excessive highs and lows in a number of months. Charlie Weston hears mixed predictions on the future of dot.com equities WHERE once the ``e'' in e-commerce might have stood for exuberance in world equity markets as techie stocks sky rocketed, now the bears are gloating. The bubble seems to have finally burst. Sharp falls in US, British and Irish technology stocks have triggered a frenzy of ``I told you so'' from many of those with longer memories who always believed a company needs earnings before we can assess its share price. Baltimore is a good example of a stock that was vastly overvalued by stock markets rising to a high of stg£13.10 in London or just under $45 in March last, once account is taken of a recent share split. This week the shares had crashed to £3.50 in London and $10 on the Nasdaq, a fall of almost 78pc. There seems little doubt now that Baltimore will be dumped out of the prestigious FTSE-100 Index just as quickly as it entered it. Up to now the market's herd instinct meant that the valuations of e-companies went through the stratosphere as every techie stock seemed to defy gravity in the markets. Between June last year and March 2000, the Nasdaq Composite Index, which accounts for the lion's share of US techie stocks, jumped 88pc, rising to almost 5,000 on March 10. That date coincided with the first rate rise in the US. The fall has been equally dramatic, again displaying the herd instinct of markets. The Nasdaq Composite is now down some 38pc from its March 10 high and this week reached its lowest level since last November. The demise of the dot.coms and those companies providing the infrastructure for the internet revolution may signal the end of the bull market's excesses. But it not clear if it will be a sustained downturn, a period of unprecedented volatility, a return to stock market stagnation, or even a buying opportunity. Analysts say Wall Street has gone bearish on techies as it is fearful that more increases in borrowing costs on top of the Federal Reserve's 50-basis-point boost announced last Tuesday could decelerate spending on computers, software and other products tech companies provide. Mike Feeney, an editor at independent research firm Wall Street Strategies, says: ``Valuation is in the eye of the beholder.'' ``Up until March, a lot of the best and the brightest of the technology stocks were awarded extremely high price to earnings ratios. Now the pendulum has swung the other way. The market no longer finds that acceptable.'' Irish analysts agree, but are reticent about talk of a bear market in our own techie shares, or bursting bubbles. Newly installed technology analyst at Davy Stockbrokers, Barry Dixon, says what is happening at the moment is a correction and not a bear market. A bear market is defined as a widespread and sustained decline in equity prices. But Mr Dixon says to be truly a bear market, there would need to be no sign of upside for tech stocks and earnings would have to be deteriorating. ``It is a correction because the fundamentals are strong for those companies that have them, like semi-conductors manufacturers and PC makers. For those that have no earnings the revenues being generated are strong.'' However, he warns that the shake-out will continue to the end of the summer as more realistic valuations are assigned to tech companies. This means the share prices of the likes of Iona, Baltimore, Trintech, SmartForce and Riverdeep will be flat in the short-term. But it is not all bad news as the Davy analyst says certain sectors within the tech area will outperform. The downward re-rating for tech stocks has not prompted IFSC-based ABN Amro to change its view on the potential of the technology sector. Analyst Jemma Houlihan says her brokerage is still positive on techies and expects the sector to outperform. She continues to advise investors to be overweight in TMT (technology, media and telecoms). ``The Nasdaq is down. There have been poor revenue figures from Intel and Cisco but we would not see anything to get too alarmed about.'' The fundamentals of the Irish techie companies are still strong, Ms Houlihan adds. Goodbody's technology analyst Gerry Hennigan reckons the actions of the Federal Reserve on interest rates will be a major determinent of how things pan out for techie stocks. The Fed meets again in June and may raise rates again to stem the growth of the US economy. After that we are entering a presidential election year when rate rises are most unlikely. Asked if the bubble has burst, Mr Hennigan says: ``It is hard to know. The tech shares are up and down like yo-yos. Fundamentally there is nothing wrong, it is just that there has been a sea change on valuations.'' He, too, feels the tech sector is in for more volatility and feels it could be the end of the summer before it settles down. As one market source put it this week: ``Even if the bubble hasn't burst, well, then it has sprung a big leak and is falling to ground quickly.'' It looks like investors in tech shares should fasten their seat belts as the roller-coaster ride is not quite over. 
