stocks
{  
    April 12 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/designer-gambling-with-better-odds-26119936.html }
Eddie Lennon provides a useful guide to investing for stock market amateurs.MANY Irish people think investing in the stock market is just designer... Eddie Lennon provides a useful guide to investing for stock market amateurs. MANY Irish people think investing in the stock market is just designer gambling - like backing a horse, only with much more sophisticated jargon. And they believe that, no matter how much expert analysis you can lay your hands on, studying the credentials of a stock (like the `form' of horses) is ultimately not enough to jump the major hurdle - serious risk. But as anyone who has ever bought shares will tell you, it's not only better fun than ordinary gambling (as well as being more long lasting entertainment!) but also poses a lot less risk, and is considerably more profitable in the long run. Because ultimately, with your stock market wager, your `horse' can fall and then get up and win the race in spectacular fashion, at extra odds. Still, if you fancy a flutter on the stock market, there are a few basic rules of thumb that are crucial to safeguarding your investment, as well as your peace of mind. How much should you risk? Paul McGowan, Joint Managing Director at Dolmen Butler Briscoe, cautions that the first thing to do is a "personal audit'' to determine if you have the ability to invest in stocks and, if so, how much you can realistically afford to put in. "We don't, for example, recommend borrowing to invest. You should be using money that is free cash.'' Then you can decide how much to take a risk on - because share prices can slump as well as jump. "You should critically decide what cash you need from day to day, and how long you're prepared to invest for,'' he adds. "You may end up splitting your money between shorter and longer term options. That will determine how much you have available for the stock market. Companies like ours can take you through the forecasts and help you to select worthwhile stocks.'' Eamon Leonard, research analyst with BCP, says that deciding how much to invest in the money markets also depends on your age and how much you can afford to invest. ``As you get older, you should generally hold more in cash or fixed income - so when you're near retirement, you would have 10-20pc in shares'' "If you're in your early 20s with no commitments, you could probably hold 80-90pc of your investment portfolio in shares. As you get older, you should generally hold more in cash or fixed income - so when you're near retirement, you would have 10-20pc in shares, so as to reduce the risk.'' He adds that it's important to spread your stocks across various sectors. "A younger person with no commitments could probably afford to put 30-40pc into tech stocks - not dot.coms, which I wouldn't recommend - but blue chip tech stocks like Cisco, Motorola and IBM. We believe that the European mobile phone market will be quite big - Nokia, Vodafone, KPM (Dutch), and Sonera (Norwegian). What - and what not - to buy - Eamon Leonard says that you should look at the track record of the company - including earnings and sales growth - as well as examining its future potential. "Look at the sector, and ask is it on fire or in the doldrums. Even now, tech stocks and mobile phones are the hot industries, whereas retail isn't. "If you stick to quality and take a long term view, then even if there's some occasional downside, you shouldn't go far wrong. It's probably a good time to buy quality stocks that fell off recently, like Philips.'' The perennial dilemma for many investors - particularly now that the market has encountered a sobering correction - is whether you should buy as the stock price drops - or wait and hope for it to "bottom out" to buy it even cheaper as it starts to rise. Mr Leonard says that it shouldn't matter very much which approach to take if you stick to quality stocks. "If you bought 100 Cisco shares and they dropped 5-10pc, I'd say buy more. But if it's a stock like Riverdeep, you shouldn't buy when it's going down.'' He adds that if a company's earnings results are positive, and the share price drops because the market itself falls and not due to anything amiss in the company itself, you probably should buy if it's a good quality stock. "Cisco, for example, is highly valued. The business of putting traditional businesses online is happening now, and Cisco is the one who's doing it. IBM and Microsoft are also very good quality, he adds. Dolmen's Paul McGowan says that "there are always great buying opportunities in the stock market, even in the worst of times. It's a question of having the foresight to decide where the market will go over the next year or 2, and what sectors and stocks are going to drive it.'' Kevin McConnell, senior analyst with Bloxham Stockbrokers advises, however: "Don't buy stocks just because the share price is lower. A fall in a share price does not necessarily represent a buying opportunity. If the fundamental reasons behind the decline in a share price or sector remain, the market will continue to push prices down.'' When to sell - Eamon Leonard says that the most common mistake investors make is selling at the wrong time. "A lot of people sold AIB and Bank of Ireland when they dropped. ``If they're quality stocks and nothing has changed with the companies themselves, you really should ride out the storm". 
