stocks
{  
    July 10 2008 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/great-expectations-for-the-stock-markets-star-player-26460896.html }
Drug-making is the new black on the Irish Stock Exchange (ISE), with high hopes for Elan's Alzheimer's drug. With the economic downturn and the credit crunch gnawing away at construction and financial stocks, there are high hopes that Elan's Alzheimer's treatment, Bapineuzumab (AAB-001), will be a blockbuster. As a result, the drug company is now the top dog on the ISE. Shares in Elan have increased by about 45pc since the start of the year, and over 75pc since early March, and the firm now has a market capitalisation of over €10bn -- compared with traditional heavyweights like CRH and AlB, whose market values are now at €8.5bn and €7bn respectively. Trading at the €23 level in Dublin and at around $35 on the New York Stock Exchange, the stock has yet to recover all the ground it has lost since its first major collapse in 2001, and investors could be forgiven for being sceptical -- Elan has traditionally had a tempestuous relationship with stock markets and volatility has often played a part in its share price performance. Back in 2005, Elan shares also suffered a massive fall from grace when they were suspended, after three cases of a potentially fatal brain infection, called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), cropped up in patients using the company's Multiple Sclerosis treatment, Tysabri (see panel). The volatility is partly because drug-making/development is a very risky business, with various levels of success expected from the many drugs being tested. In the case of Elan/Wyeth's Alzheimer's treatment, there is a huge range in broker expectations for the annual sales of Bapineuzumab, or AAB-001, in 2015 -- from the $4.5bn level to over $10bn. Volatility and uncertainty is also boosted by past failure in the Alzheimer's treatment field, as well as looming competition from other companies, such as Eli Lilly and Myriad Genetics. In addition, the eventual threat of cheaper, generic drugs is also an issue with development. But the potential for the drug is what analysts are looking at and it is based on the rise in the ageing population, with the baby-boomers feeding into this trend. There are 15 million to 18 million Alzheimer's sufferers in the world, but some analysts believe this figure could reach 48 million by 2050. In estimating the sales potential for AAB-001, they have factored in the number of people that could be on the drug by then, as well as the price of the drug per patient. And up to now, the news on Alzheimer's from Elan/Wyeth has been pretty positive. Elan and Wyeth's AAB-001 worked for a substantial proportion of Alzheimer's disease patients in a recent intermediate clinical trial, supporting a prior decision to start final phase III tests. Although the drug did not achieve overall statistically significant results in the phase II study, its benefits over a placebo were significant in an important subgroup. And an update on the treatment, due to be released at the International Conference on Alzheimer's Disease (ICAD) in Chicago at the end of the month, is probably the year's most keenly awaited biotechnology trial result, with some analysts suggesting that, if things go well, the phase III study may be pushed forward by a year. According to Davy Stockbrokers, ICAD may answer several questions. As analyst Jack Gorman has said: "The devil will be in the detail." These questions include the nature and trend of response across dose strengths and the absolute magnitude of response across the various endpoints. The broker added that the conference would also shed further light on the meaningful benefits of the treatment seen in a genetic sub-group of patients known as APOE4 non-carriers, who make up between 40pc and 70pc of the Alzheimer's population. People who carry a gene that causes their bodies to produce a substance called apolipopprotein, or (Apo)E4, are known to be at increased risk of developing Alzheimer's, but many patients still get the condition without this genetic variation. AAB-001 aims to fight deposits called beta amyloid plaques, which are linked to the degenerative brain condition. Ian Hunter, an analyst at Goodbody Stockbrokers, which has an add recommendation on Elan, said: "What we will be looking for from the conference, apart from the actual data itself, is what the scientists and doctors have to say. "That is, the people who ran the trials and also the medics attending the conference, and what their perception is of the value of AAB-001 and its use in the treatment of Alzheimer's." A spokesperson for the company said yesterday: "We will share full data from the phase II study of AAB-001 with the scientific community on July 29 at the ICAD conference." According to recent research from Goldman Sachs, which has built up a 4.27pc stake in Elan and has added the company to its conviction buy-list, the presentation at ICAD is the most significant near-term catalyst for the stock. "We are increasing our six-month risk-adjusted discounted cash flow-based target price from $34.20 to $45, based on increased sales forecasts for Bapineuzumab and on using a lower discount rate for lower-risk parts of the business such as Tysabri, other marketing products and Elan Drug Technologies. But there are always caveats. The broker added that risks to its view and target price include any PML cases with Tysabri and disappointing details of the Bapineuzumab data at ICAD. In fact, estimates from US analysts as to the likelihood of the drug actually coming to market range from 30pc to 60pc, with some more optimistic than others. In the meantime, Elan is already gearing itself up for the manufacture of AAB-001, advancing its plans to build a €190m manufacturing plant in the greater Dublin area. The company is expected to look at a number of locations, including Grangegorman in North Dublin, which is near its partner, Wyeth. Some have seen the decision to locate away from Elan's traditional base of Athlone, Co Westmeath, as further evidence that it is planning to de-merge its drug technology arm from its fast-growing biopharma arm. The company said yesterday that it had made no "specific" decision on its drug technology or manufacturing arm. Elan's spiritual home is Athlone and its company's roots go back to 1969, when it was founded by US expat Don Panoz in his four-bedroom bungalow. In fact, it was the first company to list its shares on the Nasdaq market in 1982 but the listing has since moved to the New York Stock Exchange, and the company is also traded in Dublin and London. Elan started off producing nicotine patches, before diversifying into drug-delivery systems. By the turn of the century, the company had annual sales of $1bn and operating profits of $309m; and with a share-price trading at $51, it had a market capitalisation just south of $8bn. Elan, it seemed, had arrived. But then things went terribly wrong. In the post-Enron era, investors began looking at companies with aggressive balance sheets without rose-tinted glasses. Elan, although never found guilty of any wrongdoing, fell into this category and had just issued almost $1.2bn in bonds, which were either convertible into shares or repayable in cash. In late 2001, the sky fell in on Elan. From a peak of $65 a share in June 2001, the stock collapsed to just $1.65 a year later. Rating agency Standard & Poors cut its credit-worthiness to junk status, compounding existing worries about Elan's book-keeping. That year, the company also revealed in its annual report its business recovery plan, and said that a drop in its investments would result in "significant" charges. The company's valuation shrivelled from just under $20bn to $744m, representing the greatest destruction of shareholder value, more than $19bn, ever experienced in ISE history. Later, some tough negotiations with Elan's bond-holders, together with a share-placing, added further impetus to the huge task of repairing Elan's balance sheet. Further drastic action was needed and changes also came in the form of a restructuring at board level. In July 2002, Donal Geaney, who had taken over as Elan boss from Panoz in 1995, was forced to resign. After a six-month interregnum, during which the then chairman Garo Armen doubled up as chief executive, Kelly Martin took over as Elan boss at the beginning of 2003. Without a scientific background, Martin took over at Elan after 21 years at Merrill Lynch, during which time he worked in a range of positions, including its systems and technology arms, debt market division and finally its overseas private banking arm. He resigned from Merrill when its incoming chief executive, Stanley O'Neal, who has since been ousted from the helm of the investment bank, merged the overseas private banking arm, which was headed by Martin, with Merrill's brokerage business. In an ironic twist, not only did Enron feature in the collapse of Elan's share price in 2001, but it also almost certainly precipitated Martin's departure from Merrill, although he once said: "The only company I ever worked for, the only company I thought I'd ever work for." Five months before he resigned from Merrill, he testified before a US senate committee investigating the Enron collapse -- the company had facilitated many of the off-balance sheet financial transactions which ultimately led to the collapse of the Houston-based energy firm. While insisting that Merrill had engaged in no wrongdoing in its dealings with Enron, he admitted to senators that: "Had we known at the time what we know today, we would not have conducted business with Enron." When he joined Elan, he said he was there for the long haul -- and he has stuck to his word -- although in his first year at the helm, the company was forced to sell $1.6bn in assets. Since then, apart from the hit Elan took in January 2005 on the back of the PML cases and some less dramatic volatility in the stock, Elan has recovered strongly. And Martin has been handsomely rewarded, although his latest salary for 2007 pre-dates the credit crunch. According to the latest annual report from Elan, he waived his $1m cash bonus for 2007 in favour of the granting of options on 73,874 ordinary shares which have an exercise price of $25.01, and he also received an annual stock-option grant. His total remuneration in 2007 was $1.96m, up from $1.79m the previous year. And the recent rally in the share price has also been good news for him -- his shares and options are now worth around $130m. Still, Elan has yet to break even despite the latest available figures for the company for the quarter which ended in March showing it narrowed losses to $85.5m, or 18c per share, from $93m, or 20c, a year earlier. Revenues were 22pc higher at $207.3m and lower costs more than offset an increase in R &D expenditure. The company expects revenues to hit the $1bn mark this year, based mainly on the sales of Tysabri -- currently Elan's most important drug in terms of revenue generation. But Elan's future will also depend on the contribution from AAB-001, especially in the post-2012 era. aohora@independent.ie 
