stocks
{  
    September 30 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/recipes/darina-allens-provencal-bean-stew-cheap-to-make-and-yet-wonderfully-delicious-37356351.html }
Cook up some warming dinners with recipes from Darina Allen’s new compendium of the best of her tried-and-tested Simply Delicious dishes. This is a delicious rustic bean stew, cheap to make yet wonderfully filling and nutritious, and a particularly good dish for vegetarians. Do not add the salt to the beans until near the end of the cooking time, otherwise they seem to harden. Add some Aleppo pepper or a few pepper flakes if you fancy, and of course you can add some spicy merguez sausages or chorizo if you wish. If this bean stew is being eaten without meat, then rice should be eaten in the same meal in order to get maximum nutritional benefit from the beans. Serves 6-8 Ingredients 110g dried haricot beans 110g kidney beans 110g black-eyed beans 3 small carrots 3 onions 3-4 bouquet garni 2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil 225g sliced onions 1 large red pepper, cored, deseeded and sliced 1 large green pepper, cored, deseeded and sliced 2 garlic cloves, crushed 1 x 400g can tomatoes or 450g peeled, very ripe tomatoes, chopped 2 tbsp concentrated tomato purée (see above right) 1 tbsp freshly chopped marjoram, thyme or basil Pinch of granulated sugar 55g black Kalamata olives 2 tbsp freshly chopped flat-leaf parsley or coriander, plus extra to garnish Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper and sugar Method 1. The day before cooking, pick over the beans, in three separate bowls, cover with plenty of cold water and leave overnight (soak each type of bean separately). Next day, drain the beans, place in three separate saucepans and cover with fresh cold water. Add a carrot, an onion and a bouquet garni to each pan. Bring to the boil, boil rapidly for 10 minutes, then cover and simmer until almost tender. The cooking time varies according to the variety and age of the beans, so for this reason it is better to cook the beans separately and mix them later. Add a pinch of salt towards the end of cooking. 2. When the beans are tender but not mushy, strain and reserve 300ml of the liquid and discard the vegetables and bouquet garni. Heat the oil in a casserole and sweat the sliced onions over a low heat for about 5 minutes until sweet and slightly golden. Add the peppers and garlic, cover and continue to sweat gently for 10 minutes. Add the tomatoes with their juice, tomato purée, marjoram (or thyme or basil), beans, remaining bouquet garni, reserved cooking liquid, salt, freshly ground pepper and a pinch of sugar. Cover and simmer for about 20 minutes or until the beans and peppers are cooked. 3. Five minutes before the end of the cooking time, add the olives and freshly chopped parsley or coriander. Remove the bouquet garni and season to taste. Serve with extra chopped parsley to garnish. A whole meal in a dish, this was, and still is, a favourite family supper in our house. I often serve it in the big black roasting tin, on the table, family-style. Serves 8 Ingredients 1.575kg organic, free-range chicken 560g fat streaky bacon in one piece 2 tbsp sunflower oil Seasoned plain flour 400g onions, finely sliced or chopped 340g carrots, cut into 1cm slices Approx 2.3kg large 'old' potatoes, such as Golden Wonders or Kerr's Pinks 1.1 litres homemade chicken stock, boiling Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper 1 tbsp freshly chopped parsley, to garnish Method 1. Preheat the oven to 230°C/gas mark 8. 2. Joint the chicken into 8 pieces; separate the wing joints so they will cook evenly. Cut the rind off the bacon and cut 225g into lardons and the remainder into 5mm-thick slices. If salty, blanch, refresh and dry on kitchen paper. Set the slices aside. 3. Heat the oil in a wide frying pan and cook the lardons until the fat begins to run and they are pale golden; transfer to a plate. Toss the chicken joints in the seasoned flour, sauté in the bacon fat and oil until golden on both sides, remove from the pan and put with the bacon. Finally toss the onions and carrots in the bacon fat for 1-2 minutes. 4. Peel the potatoes and slice a little less than half into 5mm rounds. Arrange a layer of potato slices on the bottom of a deep 38cm square roasting tin. Season with salt and freshly ground pepper. Top with a layer of seasoned chicken joints. Cut the remaining potatoes into 4cm-thick slices lengthways and arrange cut-side up on top of the chicken (the whole top of the dish should be covered with potato slices). Season with salt and freshly ground pepper. Pour the boiling chicken stock into the roasting tin. 5. Bake for about 1 hour. After 30 minutes of cooking, top with the slices of bacon so they get deliciously crisp with the potatoes. Test after 1 hour - it may take a little longer. Cover loosely with parchment paper near the end of cooking if the top is getting too brown. The vegetables will have absorbed much of the stock, but the dish should still be moist and juicy underneath the crisp potatoes and bacon slices on top. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve. I love swede, an inexpensive, super-versatile vegetable with lots of flavour and one that's often forgotten. This soup is an example of how it can sing. A little diced chorizo or some chorizo crumbs mixed with some chopped parsley is also delicious sprinkled on top. Serves 6-8 Ingredients 1 tbsp sunflower oil 150g rindless streaky bacon, cut into 1cm dice 110g onions, chopped 110g potatoes, peeled and diced 350g swede, peeled and cut into 7mm dice 900ml homemade chicken stock Cream or creamy milk, to taste Salt and freshly ground black pepper For the parsley oil: 50g freshly chopped flat-leaf parsley 50ml extra virgin olive oil For the garnish: Freshly ground black pepper Fried diced bacon Croutons Method 1. First make the parsley oil. Whizz the parsley with the olive oil until smooth and green. 2. Next make the soup. Heat the oil in a saucepan, add the bacon and cook over a gentle heat until crisp and golden. Remove to a plate with a slotted spoon and set aside. 3. Toss the onions, potatoes and swede in the oil. Season with salt and freshly ground pepper. Cover with a paper lid to keep in the steam and sweat over a gentle heat for about 10 minutes until soft but not coloured. Add the stock, bring to the boil and simmer for 10-15 minutes until the vegetables are fully cooked. Liquidise, taste and add a little cream or creamy milk and some extra seasoning if necessary. 4. Serve with a drizzle of parsley oil, a grind of black pepper and a mixture of crispy bacon and croutons sprinkled on top. Variation For a vegetarian version use vegetable stock instead of chicken stock and omit the bacon. For a vegan option omit the cream or creamy milk as well. Mutton and lamb pies were, and still are, traditional in many parts of Co Kerry, including Dingle and Listowel. Cumin was not part of the original recipe but was an addition by Myrtle Allen, which Ballymaloe House guests loved. The original pastry was made with lamb suet but Myrtle substituted butter with delicious results. This pie freezes perfectly for 2-3 months but use sooner rather than later. The quantity of cumin seeds will depend on how fresh the spice is. Serves 6 Ingredients 450g boneless lamb or mutton (from the shoulder or leg; keep bones for stock) 250g onions 250g carrots 1-2 good tsp cumin seeds 2 tbsp plain flour 300ml homemade lamb or mutton stock (see below) Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper For the lamb or mutton stock lamb bones from the meat: 1 carrot 1 onion Outside stalk of celery A bouquet garni made up of a sprig of thyme, parsley stalks, 1 small bay leaf For the pastry: 350g plain white flour A pinch of salt 1 organic egg, beaten 175g butter 110ml water Method 1. To make the stock, put the lamb bones, carrot, onion, celery and bouquet garni into a saucepan. Cover with cold water and simmer for 3-4 hours. 2. Trim all the surplus fat from the meat, dice the meat into small, neat pieces about the size of a small sugar lump. Render down the scraps of fat in a hot, wide saucepan until the fat runs. Discard the pieces. Cut the onions and carrots into slightly smaller dice and toss them in the fat, leaving them to cook for 3-4 minutes. Remove the vegetables and toss the meat in the remaining fat over a high heat until the colour changes. 3. Dry roast the cumin seeds in a hot frying pan for a few minutes and crush lightly. Stir the flour and cumin seeds into the meat. Cook gently for 2 minutes and blend the stock in gradually. Bring to the boil, stirring occasionally. Return the vegetables to the pan, season with salt and freshly ground pepper and leave to simmer, covered. If using young lamb, 30 minutes will be sufficient; an older animal may take up to 1 hour. 4. Meanwhile, make the pastry. Sift the flour and salt into a mixing bowl and make a well in the centre. Dice the butter, put it into a saucepan with the measured water and bring to the boil. Pour the liquid into the flour all at once and mix together quickly; beat until smooth. At first the pastry will be too soft to handle but as soon as it cools it may be rolled out 2.5-5mm thick, to fit two 15cm tins, 4cm high. The pastry may be made into individual pies or one large pie (use a 17.5cm tart tin). Keep back one-third of the pastry for lids. 5. Preheat the oven to 220°C/gas mark 7. 6. Fill the pastry-lined tins with the meat mixture, which should be just cooked and cooled a little. Brush the edges of the pastry with a little water and put on the pastry lids, pressing them tightly together. Roll out the trimmings to make pastry leaves or twirls to decorate the top of the pies; make a hole in the centre. Eggwash the lid and then eggwash the decoration also. 7. Bake the pies for about 40 minutes. Serve with a salad of seasonal leaves. Variation Puff pastry can be substituted for the hot water crust pastry. Ingredients 900g very ripe tomatoes 1 small onion, chopped Good pinch of granulated sugar Good pinch of salt A few twists of black pepper Method Cut the tomatoes into quarters and put into a stainless steel saucepan with the onion, sugar, salt and freshly ground pepper. Cook over a gentle heat until the tomatoes are soft (no water is needed). Put through the fine blade of a mouli legumes or a nylon sieve. Leave to cool completely then chill or freeze. Simply Delicious The Classic Collection: 100 Recipes From Soups & Starters To Puddings & Pies by Darina Allen, published by Kyle Books in hardback at €27. Photography by Peter Cassidy Weekend Magazine 
