stocks
{  
    May 20 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/ssia-funds-dodge-stock-market-slide-26412135.html }
SSIA-equity holders have so far escaped the worst excesses of the stock market collapse that has devastated prices across Europe this month. New industry figures seen by the Sunday Independent yesterday, confirm that the worrying shakeout in prices that has wiped nearly 7 per cent off the value of Irish stocks in the space of 10 days has not been felt in SSIA funds to anything MARTIN FITZPATRICK SSIA-equity holders have so far escaped the worst excesses of the stock market collapse that has devastated prices across Europe this month. New industry figures seen by the Sunday Independent yesterday, confirm that the worrying shakeout in prices that has wiped nearly 7 per cent off the value of Irish stocks in the space of 10 days has not been felt in SSIA funds to anything like the same degree. The accumulated values of the five-year-long savings in SSIA funds have slipped back but often by less than 2 per cent. Even the SSIA professionals are surprised at the trend. Hugh O'Keeffe, AIB's head of Resources, Strategy and Products, said the figures "probably reflect the value of diversification" and the fact that SSIAs are invested across a range of asset classes. The SSIA figures confirm that anyone who chose to invest in an SSIA at the beginning of the scheme in 2001 is doing fine at the moment, though not quite as well as on May 1 this year. If the investment was made in 2001 in a fund that invested solely in Irish stocks, the value which fund achieved by the beginning of May would have been ?27,238. But by May 17, this amount had slipped to ?26,667, a fall of just over 2 per cent. In contrast the Iseq index fell by 5 per cent in the same period and many of the leading Irish stocks have had even sharper falls than that. Though the gains to be made by investing in Irish stocks far outpaced any other SSIA, taking an equity SSIA and investing elsewhere had also had its rewards and some were appreciable in spite of the deeply unhappy markets. An SSIA 'managed fund' investment, which of course is not exclusively in equities and may include a property or a bond element, was worth ?23,651 on May 1 but had slipped to only ?23,179 17 days later. An SSIA invested in Euro stocks had grown to ?24,650 by the beginning of May but was worth ?24,162 by the middle of the month despite the market chaos. Similarly an investment in global stocks was valued at ?23,855 on May 1 and dropped to ?23,277 by May 17. Clearly SSIA holders will be concerned that if the market continues to decline the impact will be felt even more seriously. It's been a catastrophic couple of weeks on the stock markets around Europe where any attempts at a rally have been thwarted. However, some dealers at the weekend were taking consolation that on Friday Wall Street was at least relatively stable. The possibility that the rise in bank interest rates would be sharper and steeper than many had predicted, has been the principal reason for the market distress, here and in the rest of Europe. From a situation where the central banking specialists had been predicting a gentle rise in rates of 0.25 per cent every quarter, some specialists were even suggesting that the next time the ECB meets, next month, it may raise interest rates by a full 0.5 per cent. 
