stocks
{ Mairead McGuinness 
    March 20 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/tax-liabilities-affected-by-restrictions-26093914.html }
THE foot-and-mouth restrictions on animal movements will have serious consequences for farmers' tax liabilities and the  farm organisations say allowances must be made in the Finance Bill to cope with this new situation. Some farmers face an increased tax liability from not being in a position to claim stock relief due to the prohibition on livestock trade, Mike Doody, chairperson of the ICMSA taxation committee, has said. The association will be seeking special tax treatment for affected farmers in the Finance Bill 2001. Stock relief is available on the increase in stock relief in a 12 month period. But farmers whose tax year ends on 5 April 2001 may not be in a position to claim this relief as the sale and purchase of animals has ceased due to FMD controls, he said. "This particularly affects young trained farmers as they can claim a 100 percent rate of relief versus the 25 percent normally available", he said. To address the problem, he says, farmers should be allowed to claim stock and other farming relief outside the normal times set down in current legislation when all of the FMD restrictions are removed. To give legal effect to this, a special provision should be incorporated into the Finance Act which would allow for these changes. The IFA is urging all livestock farmers to consult their accountants on the profit effects of not purchasing replacement stock before their accounting year end due to mart and movement restrictions. Farm business committee chairman Walter Crowley said the profit effects of purchasing immature stock in advance of accounting years ending on 31 March next is totally dependent on how stock are valued in the year end balance sheet, he said. Where a farmer values stock at cost at the year end, and has not bought in replacement stock before his 31 March year end, there will be no profit effect and no adverse tax consequences, he added. However, if a livestock farmer has traditionally valued year-end immature stocks at 60pc of their market value, there may well be an increase in profits this year where stock is not bought in before the 31 March and this could result in an increased tax liability for the 2000/2001 tax year. The effect of this increase in profits will, however, be reversed next year. Similarly, farmers who account for tax based on the Farm Profile system, which calculates profits based on cash receipts and payments, without any balance sheet stock figure, could also have increased profits in the year to 31 March. Meanwhile, the association is urging farmers with an income problem due to restrictions on sale of animals as a result of the foot-and-mouth scare to seek income support through either the Farm Assist scheme or supplementary welfare allowance. 
