stocks
{ John Donworth 
    July 15 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/the-low-nitrogen-use-debate-26462080.html }
At Discussion groups, I have debated this issue many times with farmers over the past six weeks. I am also sure that I debated this issue last year and, if I remember rightly, I lost this debate last year as well. The issue relates to stocking rate and nitrogen use, particularly low nitrogen use. Nitrogen use on our dairy farms must, at all times, be related to the stocking rate. Stocking rate reflects the demand for grass. High stocking rates demand high grass growth rates. High stocking rates, in the past, meant that 35-40pc of the dairy farm was closed for second cut of silage. However, I don't walk any farm today where 35-40pc of the farm is closed for silage during July. Our ability to use grass late, and early, in the year has reduced the need for silage in the autumn and the spring. This, I am sure you will agree, is a positive development. Dairy farmers are now more prepared to take out surplus paddocks as round bales in mid-season rather than taking a second cut. Thirty five per cent of the farm closed mid-season results in a stocking rate of nearly four cows/ha. At this stocking rate, James Humphreys of Teagasc, Moorepark, recommends that you should apply 34kg of nitrogen/ha (28 units/ac) after each grazing. Not a bother, the decision is made before you get out of bed in the morning. Moorepark But the vast majority of dairy farmers are not stocked at four cows/ha during the month of July any more. Curtin's Farm, Moorepark, is stocked at 3.71 Lu/ha during the month of July. Twenty two per cent of the farm is out for second cut. Curtin's Farm has been putting out approximately 20kg/ha (16 units/ac) behind the cows for the past six weeks. Rotation length on this farm has been varied between 14 and 18 days in that time. So, every two rotations, Curtin's Farm is spreading 40kg of nitrogen/ha. This is the equivalent of 32 units of nitrogen/ac. But, what would happen if the rotation length was 22 or 23 days instead of 16? Would one still get away with applying the same amount of nitrogen in that case, assuming of course that both were at the same stocking rate? The quick answer is no, you would not. If you apply 20kg of nitrogen (16 units/ac) and go on at 22/23 days rotation, what is likely to happen? During the months of June and July, the pasture at 23 days is likely to have turned a lighter shade of green. In other words, the plant is beginning to struggle. Once the plant comes under a bit of pressure, the quantity of stem in the sward increases rapidly. So grass quality suffers. Dairy farmers have been telling me that for the past two years, putting out 20kg of N/ha (16 units/ac) is a waste of time. Grass growth and quality suffers, and you may also run out of grass. I have been listening to this for the past two years and I have to say that, at this stage, they have been mostly proven right. Am I a slow learner or just stubborn? Rotation length Why am I now looking at this issue differently? Rotation length forms part of the answer. If you are on a rotation length of 22/23 days, then you should be applying a minimum of 25kg/ha; that is, 20 units/ac. Curtin's Farm is going around the farm twice every 32/33 days. The majority of farmers I meet are going around the farm twice every 44/46 days. This rotation length obviously needs more nitrogen than the Curtin's Farm, but overall nitrogen use mid-season may be no different. Will bulk spreading get over the problem? I have my doubts. While bulk spreading once a month is a great idea, it can lead to peaks and troughs in grass growth. I know some of you have moved back to once-a-week spreading as a result. The objective for July should be to have low grass covers ahead of the cows. Covers between 1,000kg and 1,400kg are ideal; that is, cows stocked at three Lu/ha only need 1,100kg of grass dry matter approximately ahead of them in an 18-day rotation. The vast majority of you are at this stocking rate at present, and since we are at 18 days, 20kg N/ha (16 units/ac) is sufficient. However, last week I met farmers putting out 40kg/ha (32 units/ac) at three Lu/ha in a 22/23 day round. This is too much and now with all the rain and decent temperatures, these farms will be cutting bales in the first week of August. And what will it cost to make these bales? 
