stocks
{ JOHN DONWORTH 
    August 27 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/grass-leaps-out-of-the-ground-in-warm-soil-and-nitrogen-boost-26142402.html }
GRASS is leaping out of the ground at the moment. Paddocks grazed 10 days ago have 3-4in of lovely grass.The warm soil, the release of residual nitrogen from bags spread during the dry weather combined with adequate moisture and decent air temperatures have all resulted in grass covers on farms approaching normal. At last Wednesday's discussion group meeting, the farm cover was 940kgs of dry matter per hectare. The next paddock ahead of the cows had a cover of 1,800kgs, i.e. 6-7in of quality grass, and the cows were stocked at 0.9ac/cow with a small amount of aftergrass still to come on it. The cows were on a 27-day round and were milking 4.4gals at 3.86pc fat and 3.41pc protein. The farm had a nice cover of quality grass but not all farmers in the group were as well off as the host farmer. Some were down at 20-day rotations and were asking if it was enough to put grass in the system. The objective of every dairy farmer for the coming weeks is to ensure that you have a good farm cover of high quality grass by early to mid-September. What constitutes a good farm cover of high quality grass? Thankfully, from an adviser's point of view, we are now able to put figures on where the farm cover should be by early to mid-September (see table). To put these covers in perspective, grass covers during the main part of the grazing season need only be 800kgs. As you can see from the table, the tighter the stocking rate, the higher the farm cover must be if we want to put any grass into the autumn. Also the tighter the stocking rate, the earlier you will have to start building grass in August. While 20 days in the rotation may be all right for your neighbour, it may not be right for you as the cows' demand for grass may be 20pc higher due purely to stocking rate. The Magic Autumn Day, i.e. the day when cow demand exceeds growth rate, varies for each farm depending on stock density. For instance, cows stocked at a 0.8ac/LU (3 cows/ha) have a daily demand for grass of 48kgs/day, i.e. 3 x 16kgs where 16kgs is the cow's intake. Cows stocked at 1.0ac/cow (2.47 cows/ha) the ideal stocking rate as we head into the autumn have a daily demand of 40kgs/day. Looking at the 15-year average figures for growth rate from Moorepark (see table), you can see there is a 3-week gap before demand exceeds supply with cows stocked at 0.8 versus cows stocked at a cow to the acre. Now is the time to be actively working to ensure that the target cover for your stocking rate will be achieved. You have about the next three weeks at most to ensure that you do. The correct rotation length at the moment is about 25-28 days and this should be 30 days by September 1. Nitrogen use at the moment should be 35-45 units; silage ground will respond best. The high rate of nitrogen is recommended at the moment to take account of the better growth rate in late August. What do you do if your present cover is only 800kgs and you are struggling to put grass into the system? The only answer is to reduce demand by supplementing with cheap concentrates or silage for about 10 days. Perhaps you should take a look at what stock can be moved off farm. Do something about it now, while growth rates are good.  Finally, if you have never done a grass cover assessment for your farm and many of you out there have not done so get your adviser to do it now. It is a new skill and it is of benefit to you, particularly so at this time of the year. 
