stocks
{  
    May 31 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/stocking-on-farms-far-too-tight-during-silage-making-26145960.html }
DAIRY BY JOHN DONWORTH FOR the past six weeks I have been tossing this article around in my head. It is now June 1 and it is time to put my thoughts on paper.The months of April and May were extremely difficult on dairy farms. On difficult soils, the daily grind of letting cows to grass for a couple of hours was the only way of getting a few kgs of grass dry matter into them. These cows were housed at night. It was 1998 revisited. On half decent soils, the problems were also present. These problems were compounded by high stocking rates. In April, breeding heifers and bullocks go to grass. At the same time we close up maybe 40pc of the ground for silage with a massive increase in grass demand and expect to be able to feed everything on a grass-only diet, apart maybe from giving 2kgs to the cows. I have no hesitation in saying that we are too tightly stocked on our dairy farms during the first-cut silage period. And, remember, the first-cut silage period extends until the aftergrass comes in. It is not so long ago that we were stocked on dry soils at 0.45ac/cow (5.5 cows/ha) during the first-cut silage period. My colleague Michael O'Donovan of Teagasc, Moorepark, in his second-year study on obtaining high performance from grazed grass, arrived at the following conclusions. (1) A stocking rate of 4.5 cows/ha from mid-April to early June is sufficient to maintain the correct balance of pasture supply and grass allowance to adequately feed cows at pasture. (2) Very high stocking rates (more than 5 cows/ha) from mid-Aril to early June will result in inadequate grass supply and result in underfeeding of cows, unless high levels of supplement are fed. Based on what I have seen at farm level, I would reduce the stocking rate even further to 4.12 cows/ha, i.e. 0.6 ac/cow. This will give the cows 8.5pc more grazing area than Michael's figure of 4.5 cows/ha. Even this year, farmers at 0.6ac/cow ran into trouble, but you will come out of trouble a lot quicker at this stocking rate. Damage done to paddocks in a difficult spell results in reduced grass dry matter in the next round. This is due to the number of bare patches in the paddocks. Cows stocked at 0.6ac/cow (4.12 cows/ha) require growth rates of at least 70kgs/day. Growth fell below this level in May this year; throw in a week when no fertiliser goes out and you can wind up very quickly with inadequate grass ahead of cows. If this happens in late April, we still have the option of grazing some silage ground, but once you move into May this option is rapidly disappearing. In the past two weeks, I have come across situations where cows are on rotations varying from 17 days to 27 days, ration use is varying from 2.5kgs to 5kgs and, in some cases, silage is still being fed. The high concentrate use and the silage are going in to try and extend rotation length. Have we learned any lessons from the spring/summer of 1999? Overall stocking rate must be relaxed on the farm, perhaps with less beef. With increasing RBI in our cows, grass intakes are also increasing. Herds going from 100 RBI to 120 RBI, with cows stocked at 0.6 ac/cow during the first silage cut, will need an additional 8pc more grazing area, purely due to increased grass intakes. There has been a lot of talk about grass measurement in the past three years. Measurement should enable us to avoid covers of 400-600 in the third week of May where covers of 800-900 are required. The cover should not drop below 700 at any time. Below this, you are affecting leaf cover which is needed to grow grass.  Moorepark Open Day on Thursday is a must for all dairy farmers. On-going research programmes will be on view. You owe it to the farm business to see how these programmes can be applied on your farm. 
