stocks
{ Louise McBride 
    February 10 2008 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/the-hands-that-rock-the-market-26422445.html }
THIS coming February 13 may not be a Friday but figures being released that day could make it an unlucky Wednesday. What consumers in the US get up to may be the least of our concerns. However, if this Wednesday's US retail sales figures are disappointing, there will be ominous rumblings on stock exchanges. Retail sales figures, which show how much consumers are spending, are a measure of consumer confidence in their economy. If this week's retail figures fall steeply, it could be a sign that the US economy is heading for a recession. And as the US has long been the biggest economy in the world, a recession there is unlikely to go down well with world stock markets. US consumers buy one in five of all goods and services on this planet. If there's a recession in the US, its consumers will stop spending and chances are, economic growth in Europe will slow. "For the first time in about 17 years, a lot of people are worried that retail sales will be down," said Rossa White, economist with Davy Stockbrokers. "If there's a big fall, that would be bad news." On January 21, 2008, about $300bn was wiped off European stock markets on the back of fears of a US recession. Last Tuesday, US stocks took their biggest tumble in about 11 months after employment in its service industries fell to its lowest level in six years. The worse-than-expected results sparked panic among investors worldwide. Wall Street saw its worst share losses in almost a year with €116bn wiped off the value of the Dow Jones that day. On the Irish Stock Exchange, €4bn was wiped off the value of Irish shares. So what exactly makes stock markets tick, or more importantly, fall to pieces? Since last August, stock markets have been reeling from a sub-prime crisis in the US. This prompted lenders to tighten their belts -- a development which has become known as the 'credit crunch'. Stock markets are still very sensitive to America's economic fortunes. "For the last 200 years or more, America has been a lender to the world," said Brian Healy, director of trading with the Irish Stock Exchange. "Now it has become a borrower. This is a fundamental shift." In this climate, stock market watchers are on alert for indicators which could send the markets into freefall. US Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey This survey, which is published by the US Federal Reserve, essentially the US Central Bank, shows how easy or hard it is to borrow money. The latest survey, published last month, found that US lenders were tightening their belts and that demand for bank loans had weakened. It remains to be seen if the Fed's dramatic moves will inject some confidence into the economy. "The credit crunch has created an unusual situation and so another key indicator is the availability of credit," said Khuram Chaudhry, the chief European equity strategist with the international investment bank, Merrill Lynch. "You may have central banks cutting interest rates, but if the availability of credit is not improving, cuts in rates won't make any difference." University of Michigan Sentiment Index This index, which gives a snapshot of whether or not consumers in the US feel like spending money, tends to move markets when it's released. Last December, the index fell to 74.5, its lowest level since October 2005, after Hurricane Katrina. Directors' dealings These dealings track whether company directors are selling or buying their own shares. They give an insight into what the people who run a company think about its share price. Surprisingly, directors seem upbeat about their firms' prospects. Last November and December, British directors were on average buying four stocks for every one sold. "However, for every 12 stocks being bought by British directors today, one is being sold," said Chaudhry. "This is a good sign. Insiders are buying their own stock." Argus Research tracks directors' dealings in the US. It believes that insiders are now more bullish. Over the long term, the ratio of insider buying to insider selling has been about 2.5 to 1, according to Argus. However, in the week ending January 18, the ratio was 0.89 to 1, which is not only lower than normal but shows that insiders bought more company stock that week than they sold. "The insider buying to insider selling ratio in the US is now at an historic low," said Healy. "It means that directors are buying a lot more of their stock than they are selling. This probably means that directors believe it is a good time to buy shares." Earnings revisions Stock prices often move if there are changes in the profit expectations of particular companies. "London analysts are currently cutting their projections for company profits," said Chaudhry. "That's bad news for the direction of stock markets. Since May 2007, earnings have been revised down -- this has led to negative returns for stock prices." VIX Chicago Board Options Exchange VIX (volatility index) is a good measure of fear and greed on the market. "The stock market itself is a leading indicator of business conditions ahead, so when you see a struggling stockmarket, it portends a period of difficulty ahead -- either recession or severe slowdown," said Gary Connolly, head of fund marketing with Dublin stockbrokers Merrion Capital. "When VIX is low, it means investors are complacent and when high, it is a signal of market fears." US worker productivity Worker productivity in the US grew more than forecast in the last three months of 2007. "Productivity, a measure of employee efficiency, rose at an annual rate of 1.8 per cent -- well above the forecasted figure of 0.5 per cent," said Kevin Quinn, director of private banking with Bank of Ireland. "As a result, US stocks rose last Wednesday, pointing to a possible rebound from the market's biggest drop in 11 months." US Non-Farm Payrolls The US economy lost 17,000 jobs last month, which marked a decline in employment for the first time since August of 2003. "These figures were a fresh sign of brewing economic trouble," said Quinn. "This loss in non-farm jobs was unexpected as most economists had predicted that employment growth would remain positive in January. This had a negative impact on the markets." US Gross Domestic Product US GDP growth, which measures economic growth, slowed dramatically to an annual rate of 0.6 per cent in the final quarter of 2007. "These figures showed the effects of a worsening housing slump and a credit squeeze," said Quinn. "Most economists had only expected gross domestic product growth to slow to around 1.2 per cent. This lacklustre growth figure negatively impacted on global equity markets, as fears over the possibility of a recession in the US intensified." Yield curves Yield curves are the differences between short-term and long-term interest rates. "If the differences are steep, that's good for economic growth," says Chaudhry. "Interest rates generally drive a lot of economic indicators." Baltic Dry Shipping Index (BDI) This index measures the price of moving raw materials by sea. Last month, the BDI had its biggest one-day fall in almost 20 years, showing that fears of US recession are spreading to Europe and Asia. 
