stocks
{  
    March 19 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/stocking-densities-hold-key-to-bigger-profit-margin-26055593.html }
CATTLE farmers should adjust their stocking densities to  get access to extensification payments to maximise gross  profits. Liam Dunne of the Teagasc Rural Economy Research Centre in Sandymount told the meeting that the best economic option for most farmers is to rent-in land to achieve the higher extensification payments available at the 1.4LU/ha stocking rate limit. Presenting a paper on the implications of the CAP regime in beef production systems, he said that the switch to the direct payments (DPs) income support system, especially extensification, has greatly changed the economic circumstances in which land is used. "In cattle farming within the EU, land performs a dual function in that it supplies fodder and provides access to direct payments via stocking density compliance criteria," he said. "Stocking density is the major factor determining access to DPs." In this paper, he looked at the optimum stocking density to maximise farm gross margin and estimated the silage costs for a range of stocking densities achieved by shedding animals or renting-in land. Computer programmes were developed to estimate the net cost of land for silage based on its estimated value for accessing DPs and its opportunity rental cost. This was applied to a cattle production system using steers of 6-24 months for a stocking rate range of 1.4-2LU/ha. Stocking densities were adjusted by two methods - shedding animals and renting land at Euro317.5(£250) per ha. Liam found reducing stocking densities, especially through renting-in land, results in the production of grass surplus to the animal feed requirements on the farm. This can increase the apparent cost of producing silage. However, where silage costs per se appear high as in some of the extensive production systems modelled, pasture management requirements override the use of cheaper externally purchased feed. Under the restricted assumptions of this study, silage production costs varied by over £6/tonne. For farms aiming for extensification at the 1.4LU/ha by shedding animals, the lowest cost was £21.5/tonne. The highest cost was £27.8/tonne for farms stocked at 1.8LU/ha and renting-in land. 
