stocks
{ RADIO By EILIS  O'HANLON 
    July 22 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/brothers-doing-it-for-themselves-26255569.html }
Profile: in the light of allegations and counter allegations stretching over two continents, Gerry Byrne examines the  careers of the Murtagh brothers of Kingspan. THE revelations that Kingspan paid significant sums of money to the Government in recompense for a flawed export credit scheme which backfired may send a tremor through the markets tomorrow but among those familiar with the history of this company, it is likely to be accepted as just another episode in a saga of sorry deals which have tarnished the reputation of this otherwise fine organisation. At the heart of the issue are the two reclusive Murtagh brothers, Brendan, 54, and Eugene, 59, the former an ex-director but still a senior manager, and the latter still combining the roles of both chairman and chief executive, in defiance of modern corporate practice. Their combined talents have grown this former construction company into a sizeable multi-national building materials manufacturer which has tripled profits in a few short years and which was, until a series of corporate governance mishaps, one of the darlings of the Irish investment community. Of the two brothers, the younger, Brendan, is probably best known. He first came to national prominence on the sports field, first a student Gaelic player for UCD, later as a county GAA football player for Cavan, shortly before that county began its dizzying descent into All-Ireland obscurity. ``He was a half-back, quite a good player, up in the top to middle range of country players,'' recalled one leading GAA commentator. ``There was nothing of the extrovert about him, just a standard good player.'' While at UCD, he was called a ``conscientious student, didn't stand out for anything in particular.'' Less is known about Eugene, or Gene as is he known to his friends. Like Brendan, he is passionate about GAA and the company has been a sponsor of the Cavan County team, although it has sided with management rather than the players in a recent dispute. ``He wouldn't be a great media man, more of the sort of Irish businessman who wants to know why the media would ever want to know anything about him,'' said a local journalist. The brothers' first public corporate baptism of fire was sparked off by the Thermal Products Development (TPD) royalty issue, a controversy which only came to light on the eve of Kingscourt's 1995 graduation to the main board of the Dublin Stock Exchange from the Unlisted Securities Market which was about to be closed. TPD was a company owned by the executive directors of Kingspan, and it held the patents to thermal building panels which it licensed to Kingspan as a manufacturer. It was a nice tax free earner for the Murtaghs and two other executive directors, paying them £3.2m over a four-year period to 1995. The only problem was that hardly anybody else, including most Kingspan shareholders, were aware of it. Although the issue had been mentioned (barely) in 1989 when the USM quote was first sought, there was anger among some shareholders that it was not disclosed on an annual basis since then, and also listed under the heading of director remuneration. There were also suggestions that the TPD deal should also have been listed under the heading of ``contracts or arrangements in which a director was materially interested''. The TPD patent was the life blood of the company's core cladding manufacturing business and was worth more than £800,000 in 1995 in royalty payments to the Murtagh brothers and other TPD shareholders. The Irish Association of Investment Managers took a deep interest in the issue and forced Kingspan to appoint a board subcommittee to review the issue of director remuneration. That year, chairman Eugene Murtagh admitted that the company was not Cadbury compliant in the area of director remuneration and audit committees. It was also decided to end the TPD issue by agreeing to pay the Murtagh brothers and the other TPD directors £4.3m over four years in the form of final royalty payments. Because the TPD patents were to be bought out via a nominal end-sum, that meant the Murtagh brothers continued to get a tax free income for several more years. By this stage, Kingspan was scoring significant hits on the acquisition trail and helping the company's turnover and profits grow to the stage where it was grabbing the attention of eager institutional investors whose memories of the TPD fiasco were rapidly fading. In 1996, Kingspan became one of the Irish Stock Excxhange's best performing share with share price growth of more than 160 per cent. The number of non-executive directors was increased, with the addition of reassuring names like FF deputy Dr Rory O'Hanlon, Danny Kitchen and even Pat Molloy, former chief executive of the Bank of Ireland, who joined in early 1998. Little did investors know that, despite these illustrious additions, another banana skin lurked around the corner. In November 1998, Kingspan was doing due diligence on the £41m acquisition of Hewetson, an English building materials firm, when the wife and girlfriend respectively of two of Brendan Murtagh's sons suddenly developed a fondness for Hewetson stock. In the ensuing investigation, in which the London Stock Exchange became involved, Kingspan admitted that Brendan Murtagh ``may inadvertently have disclosed confidential information to his sons'', but insisted that he never meant them (or their partners) to actually go out and buy stock. Although the amounts were trifling, the consequences were more serious, especially as insider dealing, should that have been proven, is a criminal offence under UK legislation. Brendan Murtagh came under intense pressure and he resigned as a director (although he remained on as a senior manager) and his children were temporarily suspended from their junior management duties. One of them never returned to the firm. Investors again developed amnesia and the Kingspan share price continued to improve. By this stage it was rapidly becoming one of the better second-line stocks, despite the fact that in recent years the Murtaghs have been net sellers, not buyers of Kingspan stock, even to the extent of not taking up their rights issues in 1995. They were always able to excuse this policy by pointing to the family dominance of the firm in 1996, for example, the two brothers owned 47 per cent of the company and by saying it was to increase liquidity, a valid enough point. It would also have been expensive and could have cost him £6.5m alone, Eugene Murtagh told shareholders at the AGM in 1997. Late in 1998, another possible reason for selling stock emerged, certainly on Brendan's behalf, at any rate. When MMI Stockbrokers collapsed it emerged that he was one of its largest creditors although he is disputing a claim that he owes almost 50 per cent of the £8m owed by Irish investors. MMI collapsed, it will be recalled, when investors, who were being encouraged to pile into exploration stocks like Dana, suddenly found the value of their holdings had collapsed and the roll-over system they were using to fund purchases suddenly left them exposed to large cash demands, which many could not afford. Brendan Murtagh, it has since emerged, has been one of the country's largest single private players on the stock market and also, at one stage, managed a large account at NCB. He also made a personal investment in Howard Holdings, a small UK property company which he said might seek a Dublin listing. His apparent nemesis, as far as MMI was concerned, was Tullow. Why he should have run up such large alleged debts remains unclear because he is thought not to have been short of cash. That summer, for example, the two brothers sold more than £22m worth of Kingspan of which Brendan's share was £7.75m. In April 1999, Brendan sold a further £22m worth of Kingspan stock, representing 7.7 per cent of the total equity and leaving him with just five per cent of the company. Brendan sold at £1.79 a share, just a few days after another director was criticised for demonstrating poor faith in the stock by selling at £1.94. On Thursday last week the share was quoted at £2.35, well off its historical high. The latest disclosure about Kingspan is hardly guaranteed to deepen confidence in the company and it puts a large question mark over the behaviour of the directors, including the non-executives. If the latter knew about the real reasons for the mysterious small print ``contingent liability'' which the flawed export credit deal provoked, should they have not have insisted that the shareholders they represent be informed, so that they could form their own conclusions about the ethos and the ethics of the company in which they were investing? 
