stocks
{ KATHLEEN BARRINGTON 
    October 22 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/mmi-clients-unaware-stock-sold-26136125.html }
LONDON stockbrokers Prudential Bache International sold $1.4m in shares belonging to the clients of MMI Stockbrokers without their knowledge or consent, according to MMI liquidator Tom Kavanagh. The shares were sold by Pru Bache in September 1998, according to Mr Kavanagh's affidavit opened in the High Court earlier this week. In December 1998, MMI was acquired by London brokerage K&H Options who invested stg£2m to rescue the company. A large proportion of K&H's investment was used to repurchase some of the stocks which had been sold without the consent of MMI's clients. However, by the time Mr Kavanagh was appointed liquidator earlier this year, stocks valued at about stg£320,000 still had not been repurchased. It fell to Mr Kavanagh to inform the clients of what had occurred. Mr Kavanagh claimed that the directors of MMI knew or should have known what happened to its clients shares. Pru Bache acted as an agent for MMI with regard to the purchase of US shares for MMI clients. Some of these stocks were bought and fully paid for in the normal way. However, some shares were also bought ``on margin'', which meant that clients were required to pay only 50pc of the purchase price up front, while Pru Bache kept the stocks as security for the rest of the purchase price. If the shares fell in value, Pru Bache was entitled to demand payment of the outstanding 50pc, and this was known as a margin call. Mr Kavanagh claimed that in April 1998 most of the fully paid for securities were transferred to the margin trading account of Pru Bache. He said this may have been in breach of the arrangement between Pru Bache and MMI. And he said he could not establish whether MMI directors actually authorised the transfer of fully paid for securities into margin accounts. However, he claimed one effect of this transfer was to allow MMI to increase its credit facilities from Pru Bache by 50pc creating an additional cash reserve of about $800,000. ``The directors would certainly have been aware or ought to have been aware of the increased cash funds now available to them in this way, and accordingly I say that it is likely that they knew what had happened with the Pru Bache fully paid-for stocks,'' Mr Kavanagh stated. This share transfer created serious problems when in September 1998 certain margin stocks fell in price. Pru Bache immediately demanded repayment of $1.4m from MMI to cover its position.  And, Mr Kavanagh claimed, without notice Pru Bache then sold various stocks worth $1.4m belonging to MMI clients. The stocks sold included not only margin trading stocks, but fully paid for stocks of other MMI clients. 
