stocks
{  
    March 11 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/return-to-tulipmania-on-cards-as-small-gets-bigger-every-day-26156064.html }
CHARLIE WESTON on the trend to ignore small companies in favour of mega stocksA MODERN-day version of tulipmania has broken out on Dublin and London's stock markets as fund managers and other key investors have turned their backs on small cap companies. The blight that saw the sensible Dutch sell everything they owned in the 17th century to buy recently introduced tulip has a latter day parallel in the plight of second-liners. Back then tulips were the big success in Western Europe after they had arrived from the East. But soon people were more interested in the financial, rather than the visual, appeal of the flowers. Tulipmania had struck. Prices started to shoot up and bulbs began to change hands for today's equivalent of £15,000 to £30,000, until the inevitable crash. The mania associated with 17th century tulips bears comparison with today's obsession by fund managers with buying only European mega stocks. That's the gist of two reports released in Britain last week. One was produced by the British government's Department of Industry and Trade and another by independent financial advisers. Both reports argue that smaller quoted companies are being squeezed out of capital markets. This short-term approach means the creators of tomorrow's jobs and wealth are being ignored as fund managers concentrate on the mega stocks, and the definition of small gets bigger every day. As reported in this newspaper recently, at least 10 Irish smaller cap companies are expected to be taken private this year alone as derisory ratings force company managements to buy-out their shareholders. And to make matters worse, the definition of a smaller cap company has just been raised by the Irish Association of Investment Managers (IAIM). This has been done to bring Ireland into line with the rest of Europe. A whole slew of mid-cap stocks now become small-cap companies as the IAIM definition of smaller company has been raised tenfold to EURO 130m (£102.4m). Some 38 mid-cap companies fall into this category. The move has severe implications for these companies, affecting their ability to raise capital on reasonable terms and to attract and retain skilled management. The gap between the big and the small on the ISEQ is widening all the time. The lop-sided nature of the Irish market can be seen from the fact that some 80pc of the Irish market's capitalisation is taken up by the top 10 companies. While the top 10 companies have price/earnings ratings of between 33 and 13, many smaller-capitalised companies are languishing at multiples of seven and less. Market sources say there are a number of reasons for this. Global mega-mergers are creating larger and larger firms with greater economies of scale and good growth prospects. Banking and insurance in particular have seen a large number of mega-mergers in the last number of months. Irish fund managers feel they cannot afford not to be represented in these big stocks and have often dumped smaller-cap companies to get them. There is also a renewed focus on fast-growth sectors like telecommunications and pharmaceuticals at the expense of basic industries which tend to dominate the Irish small-cap sector, according to Pat O'Sullivan Greene of ABN AMRO. But crucially, the embrace of the euro by European stock markets has meant fund managers are now looking to invest on a sector-wide basis in euroland, rather than have a spread of companies in one country. In the past a combination of, say Barlo and Kingspan, was satisfactory. But now that has been replaced by investments in the likes of CRH or its French equivalent Lafarge in the building materials sector. Fund managers are now judging their performance against the sector index for the different industries they want to be in. This means that they dare not be ``underweight'' in one of the giant stocks even if these are hugely overvalued and they have to dump a string of Irish small-caps to pay for them. The results have been despair and disillusionment for those running Irish smaller quoted companies. And recent profit warnings from the likes of Silvermines, Unidare, Athlone Extrusions and IWP have not helped. The Jones group has started the likely trend this year with an MBO. IWP boss Joe Moran has already warned that unless fund managers give the personal care and household products company the sort of rating he believed it deserved, then IWP was likely to go the route of a management buy-out (MBO), be bought out or merge with one of its British competitors. And Golden Vale's Jim Murphy recently had harsh words for Irish fund managers accusing them of using computers instead of their brains in a headlong rush out of Irish equities. Fund managers have deserted the smaller-quoted companies, but Irish corporate bankers and London venture capitalists are ready to help them go private. London firms such as Candover Management Partners and Mercury Asset Management are flashing their cheque books to senior managers in the likes of Adare, IWP, Crean and Ardagh to get them to do an MBO. But fund manager with Friends First, Pramit Ghose, denied that all fund managers are ignoring all smaller-caps. ``Obviously there are smaller stocks that are offering superior growth. But the problem with small caps is that we have had a good few disappointments. ``A lot have failed and profit warnings have not helped. You feel safer in bigger stocks as you won't get scares.'' However, he stressed that the best performing stocks on the ISEQ in the year to date have mostly been smaller companies with many of them offering excellent value. He added that he personally bought shares in five smaller cap companies recently while a client who has £20m to spend on smaller quoted companies has seen gains of between 40pc and 80pc in the past few months. Mr O'Sullivan Greene of ABN AMRO also argues that there is fundamental value in smaller cap companies which have been trading lately at a 38pc discount to the overall market. This is also the case in the UK and the rest of the EU. But he warned that the focus on larger cap stocks would continue to the end of the year as fund managers continued to rebalance their portfolios, he said. He added that smaller firms should benefit from Irish growth and an expected pick-up in Britain. He was also encouraged by management share purchasing in the likes of Unidare. One market source was adamant yesterday that if the obsession with the euro mega stocks goes too far and the Irish market ends up losing a host of smaller-quoted companies to MBOs, fund managers could end up giving us a situation every bit as daft as the 17th century tulipmania.  Meanwhile, many smaller companies are rooted to the spot and wilting. 
