stocks
{ INSIDE FILE 
    June 07 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/let-numbers-do-the-talking-26115538.html }
Rory Gillen revisits a highly successful approach to identifying fast growing mid and small cap companies in the UK stockmarket. The approach is systematic and relies on  numbers alone in choosing stocks In A previous article for the Irish Independent in January '99, the `screening criteria' detailed below were back-tested in the UK market for four years from Nov '94 to Nov '98. Over that period, the approach delivered returns substantially ahead of the market (see table). In percentage terms, the 10 stock approach delivered a 33pc return per annum excluding costs or dividends against 12pc for the FT-Allshare over the four year period.  Using Company REFS The table below reiterates the criteria we use to screen for stocks. Our source of information is Company REFS which is without doubt the best database on UK stocks covering 1850 companies in all. It is published monthly by Hemmington Scott (Tel: 0044171 2787769) in both print and CD formats and is now on-line (www.companyrefs.com). The cost of the on-line version is stg£675 per annum.  Running live since November 1998 The back-testing for the January 1999 article was a bit like looking in the rear view mirror. However, a further three `six-month' periods has passed since and the system has again worked excellently, delivering a return of over 50pc, against 20pc for the FTSE Allshare over the eighteen months from November '98 up to end April 2000. Of more importance, it has worked in practice.  Why does the approach work so well? Firstly, the portfolio is reviewed every six months which forces us to cut the losses and run the winners, most investors tend to do the opposite. Secondly, all other things being equal, share prices follow earnings and by insisting on growth of 20pc plus we ensure that our basket of stocks is growing significantly faster than the overall market in earnings terms. Thirdly, in Company REFS a PE/G ratio is only awarded to companies with a consistency of growth which provides a degree of reliability. Fourthly, buying stocks when the PE ratio is below the sustainable growth rate (PE/G well below 1) provides a significant `margin of safety'. Finally, ensuring that the shares selected have good relative strength (i.e. their shares are already performing better than the market) provides confirmation that the market also believes in the stocks chosen and has already begun the re-rating process. This improves our timing of stock selection. In essence, we are buying stocks that are currently in favour while still ensuring that we are getting good value.  Buying Blind? Readers may feel they are buying blind in approaching stock selection in this way. However, numerous analysts have already examined these companies and have come up with forecasts. In addition, many professional fund managers have met with these companies and have the confidence to be buying the shares.  Objectivity vs. Subjectivity The strength of basing stock selection on quantitative criteria is that your decisions are objective and not subjective. The criteria we detail here are not exclusive. Indeed, if one relaxes the criteria somewhat... (say EPS growth of 15pc instead of 20pc and p/e below 25 rather than 20) investors can gain the benefits of following this approach while ensuring more larger companies fall into the net. Returns may be diluted but you should still beat the averages.  What About Europe? Regrettably, information databases on the European markets are very underdeveloped and it is difficult for private investors to replicate this method for picking European stocks. The Bloomberg database facilitates `screening' but it is far from perfect and, in any event, is only available to professional investors. However, it should only be a matter of time before somebody fills the void. Perhaps Company REFS will be extended to Europe in time.  *Rory Gillen, is Head of Private Clients at Merrion Capital, the division that specialises in the High Net Worth Client end of the market. 
