stocks
{ Charlie Weston 
    February 07 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/how-investors-rationalise-taking-punts-on-value-and-growth-stocks-25998425.html }
New research gives a fascinating insight on how investors view stocks and perceived valuations after the release of company interim results INVESTORS love to identify value or cheap shares and make capital gains as they appreciate. But are you missing out by not focusing on growth or 'go-go' shares where the returns can be exceptional? The great guru of value investing is Warren Buffett. The American is one of the most celebrated and successful investors in the world, and the returns on his investments over the past three decades have outperformed indexes of the US stock market. But others argue that the returns from growth stocks are not to be dismissed. The beauty of these shares, they argue, is that even though you buy stocks at an expensive price, you sell at a higher one. Anyone who has bought shares in toll roads and waste group NTR in the past few months will be only too aware of the benefits of buying growth stocks. Or is it the case that value stocks outperform growth stocks because the market makes mistakes? There has been precious little research on the Irish market to back up one side or the other of the growth-versus-value argument. But now research by an academic in UCD sheds new light on the debate in an Irish context. Dr Paul Ryan and graduate student Rashad Hajiyev have written 
Do Value Stocks Outperform Growth
Stocks Around the Release of Firms' Financial Results: Some Preliminary Evidence From the Irish Stock Exchange, which explores these issues. Dr Ryan is attached to the Department of Banking and Finance at UCD. Value stocks are defined as those that have a low share price relative to financial variables, such as earnings, book value of assets, cash flow, dividends etc. In other words, the strategy is one of selecting stocks that trade for less than their intrinsic value. Some would go so far as to say that in simple terms value means 'cheap'. Growth stocks are defined as those having a high market value relative to these variables. In simple terms, growth stocks are the shares of a company which is growing earnings and/or revenue faster than its industry or the overall market. The researchers took the top 40 stocks by market capitalisation on the Irish Stock Exchange over the period 1996 to 2002. The authors looked at the returns for the shares after the release of interim and preliminary results. The shares were classified using a market-to-book ratio (this compares the stock market price to the value of total assets less total liabilities) and price-to-earnings ratio (this is current share price divided by annual earnings per share or expected annual earnings per share). The authors measured the share price returns over a three-day window around the announcements of interim and preliminary results. At issue is whether investors make systematic errors in pricing. American research shows that investors, because of behavioural and institutional biases, underprice value stocks relative to their risk characteristics. The American research, on which the new Irish research is modelled, indicates that value stocks provide superior future returns because the market only slowly realises that earnings growth rates for value shares are higher than initially expected. Conversely, growth stocks are overpriced because they are expected to perform better than they do. So what did Dr Ryan and Mr Hajiyev find? Overall, the evidence suggests that value stocks significantly outperform growth stocks in the three-day period surrounding the release of interim and final results from companies. This was found to be true whether companies were assessed on the basis of book-to-market value or on the basis of price-earnings ratios. The authors of the research concluded that the response of value and growth stocks was consistent with the US evidence. Next, the authors looked at whether Irish investors systematically underestimate the growth prospects of value stocks and overestimate the growth prospects of growth stocks. When they examined this issue, Dr Ryan and Mr Hajiyev were unable to reject the possibility that the difference in returns simply reflected the difference in risk between growth and value stocks, with growth stocks being higher-risk, higher-return. Summing up their findings, the authors state: "Our reported results have implications for investors implementing value-versus-growth trading strategies for the largest, most liquid stocks quoted on the Irish Stock Exchange. "Though value stocks systematically outperform growth stocks in the period immediately surrounding the release of firms' financial results, the profitability of such strategies may be potentially illusory as the differences in return may simply be appropriate compensation for risk rather than reflective of investor expectational errors in pricing stocks." 
