stocks
{ Eddie Lennon 
    March 03 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/best-tech-stocks-still-a-good-bet-26092110.html }
LAST MARCH, shares on the Nasdaq reached an all-time high, with the index trading up to 5100. But in recent days,  it took a real nosedive - confirming yet again the  fundamental volatility of tech stocks and investor  confidence. So as the anniversary of the Nasdaq high approaches, it's a whole new ball game in the area of TMT (technology, media and telecoms) stocks. How does the future look for investing in these stocks - and is there an opportunity for bargain buying, given how dramatically cheaper many such stocks are compared with a year ago? Billy Hanley, fund manager with Dolmen Butler Briscoe, points out that while people bought technology stocks for their vast growth potential, "there is now a case for buying into some of the larger tech stocks on the basis that they're looking cheap." Since the peak last March, the Nasdaq has fallen by almost 60pc. "Given that the Nasdaq includes many non-tech stocks, and that some of these, like Ryanair, have performed very well, it's clear the decline in the value of the technology sector is even greater than the Nasdaq itself." Mr Hanley observes that nearly all technology stocks have suffered. Microsoft has fallen from a peak of $110 to a current price of $60, and traded as low as $44 at Christmas. Intel have fared even worse, falling from a $70 peak to just $30. "We've seen similar falls in PC producers such as Dell and chip-makers like Intel. All have suffered from a big fall off in the demand for personal computers, as the US economy slows. This can be seen in the decline in the semi-conductor book-to-bill ratio."It's worth noting there was a very quick recovery on both occasions. Consequently, he would still be cautious about the investment outlook for technology stocks. "We've seen a lot of negative news, with profit warnings across the board, and there may be more bad news if the US economy continues to weaken. We expect to see weakness continuing in the near term." However, he believes, the big fall-off in stock prices means value is beginning to appear in the more directly PC-related businesses - the 'blue chips' of the industry like Intel, Microsoft, Applied Materials (who make equipment used in making semiconductors), Sun Microsystems and computer manufacturer, Dell. "These companies are trading on similar price earnings multiples to the large pharmaceutical or investment banking stocks. With so much bad news already priced in, it would seem that there can be little further downside in the likes of Intel or Applied Materials. Furthermore, if they can meet their profit targets for 2001 and 2002, the blue chip technology stocks will be looking cheap at current levels." Kevin McConnell of Bloxham stockbrokers recommends Philips. "Their excellent third quarter results were above market estimates, driven by accelerating growth in mainstream electronics, continuing upturn in semiconductors, better economic conditions and favourable exchange rates." Philips' recent joint ventures will immediately Mr McConnell also favours Cable & Wireless, whose upcoming sale of its 54pc stake in C&W HK "will leave the company with £4 billion in cash, £26 billion in shareholders' funds and strong scope for leveraging its balance sheet for European expansion. The HK sale also makes Cable and Wireless more vulnerable to a bid." He adds: "C&W is seeking to reinvent itself as a corporate Internet and data services company. The group expects to have a borrowing capacity of £22bn, after the sale of HK, leaving it well positioned to expand into the lucrative data transmission, broadband data, Internet transmission and web hosting sectors." Like Dolmen, Butler Briscoe, Bloxham favours Dell. "While the sector's earnings expectations remain under threat, newsflow from Dell's refocusing efforts continues to impress." Growth will come as Dell moves away from high volume, low margin desktops into high margin servers, storage and services. Mr McConnell also tips Vodafone, the world's leading cellular phone company. "The scale of Vodafone dominance of the global cellular market was highlighted in the third quarter of 2000 when they delivered 6.2m extra subscribers, well ahead of estimates, with strong growth in Europe outpacing growth in US new subscriber numbers." Vodafone continued to pick up significant market share in the UKand Germany, and total European subscribers is now 37.7m. Furthermore, Vodafone successfully fought off Deutsche Telekom and DoCoMo (of Japan) to partner China Mobile HK, one of the key players in the Chinese market. Vodafone is investing $2.5bn for 2pc in the combined company which is expected to have 39.3m customers. Barry Dixon, technology analyst with Davy stockbrokers, advocates caution when buying technology stocks. He says there's no way of telling which stocks are cheap. "What may look cheap now could look very expensive if a company has significant earnings downgrade. "Earlier this year, investors started buying large cap "safe" technology stocks again, then quality Internet stocks. Then there were surprise warnings about earnings from Cisco and Sun Microsystems. So there's still a risk from a slowdown in earnings." However, Davys still like the tech sector. "It's still the early stages for certain technologies, so you need to have some investment in technology stocks. But you must be careful, and invest in stocks that are immune, or relatively immune, to the slowdown in the US market and IT spending globally." He favours Riverdeep, Iona and Horizon, all Irish stocks. Riverdeep are educational software providers, trading at $23.75, $4 above their flotation price last March. "Riverdeep is immune to an economic slowdown. It's based on spending on education by the US Government, who say they'll increase the federal budget on education by 18pc this year. "So Riverdeep's market won't be affected by a slowdown in IT spending. You can see that by how it's held up through the recent market decline." He likes Iona ($47.75; $100 last March) for similar reasons. "IT surveys show investment officers want to invest in products that will improve the productivity of their existing investments and IT structures - and that's what Iona tries to tackle." 
