stocks
{ BRIAN M. LUCEY 
    December 09 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/sell-in-may-and-go-away-26252193.html }
ARE YOU depressed by recent forays into the equity  market? Have you in your time bought, and held onto, such 'investments' as Eircom, James Crean, Fitzwilton, or  anything.com? Have you pored over investment guides,  dissected brokers' reports, or honed your investment  acumen acumen by reading thick volumes promising that if you follow their incredibly complex trading schemes, financial  happiness can be yours? This old wife tells the truth ARE YOU depressed by recent forays into the equity market? Have you in your time bought, and held onto, such 'investments' as Eircom, James Crean, Fitzwilton, or anything.com? Have you pored over investment guides, dissected brokers' reports, or honed your investment acumen by reading thick volumes promising that if you follow their incredibly complex trading schemes, financial happiness can be yours? Perhaps instead a good knowledge of folklore, old wives' tales, hoary old chestnuts and old saws would have stood you in better stead. We are all familiar with the search for the Holy Grail, a powerful symbol of a (possibly futile) search for some magnificent trophy, the finding of which will bring eternal happiness. In stock market trading, the Holy Grail is a foolproof, persistent, consistent, and above all simple way of making a profit (other than buying low and selling high). Myth has been another powerful force for financial economists for many years. One myth is that there are no predictable patterns in the stock market. Another is the myth that the market is 'efficient', meaning in effect that in the long term, excess profits are not to be made. Clearly, this latter myth is one that is not believed in by any firm of stockbrokers, as a glance at the private dining rooms of any city-centre restaurant around bonus time will show. We are also familiar with the concept of an old wife's tale, a hoary piece of wisdom. One of these in relation to returns on stocks is "you can either eat well or sleep well". Old wives' tales are not, however, to be dismissed as many contain a kernel of truth. One of the oldest saws in the equity market is "Sell in May, go away, and don't come back till St Ledger's day". Whether or not the Grail exists in reality is doubtful. What is no longer in doubt internationally, and in Ireland, is that a market version may exist. Work presented at a recent meeting of the Statistical & Social Inquiry Society of Ireland indicates that harking to the old wives' tale can lead to the Holy Grail, disproving other myths along the way. A paper by two Dutch economists, under review for perhaps the most prestigious economics journal, The American Economic Review, looked at the validity of the "Sell in May" tale and found a number of interesting facts. The authors claimed that they have discovered a simple strategy that will outperform the stock market while, at the same time, halving the risk. This comes from the fact that the positive returns delivered by stock markets tend to be concentrated in the November-April half of the year, with the other half delivering poor, often negative, returns. The rule is simply to be invested in cash for half the year (May to October) and in the equity market for the other half (November to April). It works in 36 out of the 37 equity markets analysed; it works in large, established markets such as the US and in small emerging markets such as Indonesia; it works over the last decade and the last three decades; it works after full allowance for trading expenses and taxes; it works as far back as they could find data for instance, in Japan since 1920, in France since 1900, in the US since 1802 and in the UK market since 1694. It works especially well in Europe. The paper presented on Tuesday extended this analysis to Ireland. In it, we found a number of interesting facts. First, we found that since the early 1930s, by far the largest part of the returns in the Irish market have come in the November-April period. In fact, even in years when the stock market fell overall, stocks tended to rise in the November-April period. Only in 12 years, the last nearly a decade ago, was the November-April return negative. Second, we found that there is a predictable, regular, statistically significant and potentially profitable calendar pattern within this. Returns from stocks in January tend to be nearly twice as large as that for the next most profitable month, December. Over the period, only in 18 cases was the return from stocks in January negative. However ,in 10 of these cases the negative return was less than 1 per cent. Third, we showed that although the returns are greater in the November-April period, the volatility of stocks is lower. Finally we found that these regular patterns are stable, persisting, generally speaking, over all the years and across a number of statistical measures. What these papers mean is simple there is a Holy Grail, involving the trading rule outlined by Jacobsen and Bouman (2002) and confirmed by Lucey, B. and S. F. Whelan (2002). Individual investors are typically more depressed by falls in stock prices than they are elated by rises. Using the trading rule outlined above, it may be possible to eat well, reaping the benefits of the rises in stocks that occurs in the November-April period and the interest on the cash in the summer period, while sleeping well in the knowledge that if history is any guide to the future, then the patterns are likely to berepeated. Brian Lucey is a lecturer in Finance at the School of Business Studies, Trinity College,Dublin. 
