stocks
{  
    June 30 2007 03:42 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/weekly-round-up-bad-june-for-weather-and-the-stock-market-26300822.html }
THE Irish equity market closed flattish yesterday after a volatile day's trade brought a miserable June and disappointing first half to a close. Perhaps there's a correlation between the weather and the movement of Irish share prices. It's been a terrible month on both accounts. The Dublin market slumped by 5.5pc during June and completely wiped out the 4pc gain seen the previous month, to leave the ISEQ Overall index of Irish shares nursing a one per cent deficit over the whole of the first half. The Irish market has underperformed so far this year. London's FTSE-100 shares index also had a poor June but is still ahead by 6pc year to date and other markets around Europe and in the United States have also logged reasonable gains despite considerable uncertainty over interest rates. The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index, which closed 0.6pc higher yesterday, finished the first half of the year with a gain of 8.2pc, versus a gain of 3pc during the first half of 2006. Financials Ireland's top financial stocks have held the market back this year. After a good start that saw the top banks rise to record levels in February, they have come tumbling back down over the past few months, and especially during June. The share prices of AIB and Bank of Ireland last week slid right back to levels not seen for nine months. Fund managers, having bought into the strong Irish economic story of the past five years or so, now appeared to have become nervy about the outlook for mortgage and commercial lending markets. Financial stocks crashed by more than 10pc this month, as compared with a relatively modest one per cent decline in the general index. CRH CRH, the leading industrial and the market's biggest company, gained 3pc in June and would obviously have had a big bearing on the non-financials index. The ISEQ Overall index fluctuated wildly yesterday, opening around 9,340, dropping as low as 9,260 by 10am and rallying during the afternoon before closing virtually unchanged at 9,306. AIB fell 1.4pc to €20.21 but the other three big financials - Anglo, Bank of Ireland and Irish Life & Permanent - made up some of their losses earlier in the week. C&C remained very much of out of favour despite its share buyback programme and the stock fell another 4pc to €9.98. FBD, another company buying back its own shares, also continued to lose ground, dropping 0.8pc to €31.75. The group spent €9.6m on Wednesday buying back 300,000 of its own shares. Greencore Feature of the day must have been Greencore, with the stock rising 3.3pc to €5.6 on continued speculation of a possible bid move by developer Liam Carroll. Newcourt finished the week on a flurry, rising 4.3pc to €1.7 in anticipation of a major expansion move. European stocks finished higher yesterday as tame US inflation data reassured investors, helping the market reverse earlier losses and close the first half of the year on a strong note. Shares of oil companies led the gains as crude oil prices reached $71 a barrel. Total SA added 1.6pc, while Royal Dutch Shell rose 1.5pc and Statoil ASA gained 2.2pc. Downward "We are more than ever linked to the US market," said Franz Wenzel, strategist at AXA Investment Managers, in Paris. "If at least US stocks managed not to move downward, European shares will be okay," he said. The UK's top shares ended the first half's last trading day on higher ground, clawing back from earlier losses as commodities rose and as a Federal Reserve inflation gauge boosted morale in global stocks. Northern Rock topped the gainers, up 4.7pc after Goldman Sachs added the bank to its "conviction buy" list, and following a 12pc plunge on Wednesday when the mortgage lender warned on profits. Also in the sector, Royal Bank of Scotland rose 1.6pc and HBOS added 0.7pc. New York US stocks rose after data showed strength in the economy, while an inflation measure moderated, putting the stock market on track to end the quarter on a strong note. Among advancing shares, Research In Motion Ltd surged after the BlackBerry maker posted stronger-than-expected quarterly profit and announced a stock split. Apple Inc rose on the day its new iPhone went on sale in US stores. The Federal Reserve's favourite inflation measure showed its lowest reading since March 2004, according to government data. Separate reports on Midwest business activity and consumer sentiment were stronger than expected a day after the Fed's assessment that the economy was likely to expand moderately in coming quarters. CYRIL HARDIMAN 
