stocks
{ Treacy HoganEnvironment Correspondent 
    December 09 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/stocks-hoovered-up-by-foreign-fishermen-25883195.html }
THE seas around Ireland are dying, a major report has revealed. After years of overfishing, use of bigger trawlers and an invasion of foreign fishermen "hoovering up" fish, stocks of the best known species are in danger of disappearing forever. The EU yesterday proposed unprecedented bans on fishing in northern waters in a desperate bid to safeguard threatened species such as cod, a traditional dinner favourite. But worried scientists and environmental groups warned the proposals are completely inadequate to save rapidly collapsing fish stocks. The catastrophe was yesterday branded the greatest environmental problem after climate change. Irish politicians yesterday demanded urgent EU action to halt the decline, including the introduction of extensive no-fishing zones to reverse the crisis. The Commission on Environmental Pollution, in a report yesterday, demanded a ban on fishing in one-third of the waters around Ireland and Britain to avoid a "marine catastrophe". It revealed yesterday that: * Three-quarters of fish stocks are either depleted or in danger. * Levels of cod in the Irish Sea are now half the minimum level needed to be sustainable. In the Irish Sea the bare minimum must be 10,200 tonnes, but this has fallen to 5,200 tonnes. * Cod has now all but disappeared from the North Sea. * Hake is at an all-time low because of Spanish trawlers satisfying a huge domestic demand. * Much of the sea bed is now desolate and resembles the moon surface after being stripped away by "bottom trawling". * Entire ecosystems in the Irish Sea, Celtic Sea and Atlantic are under threat. * Tens of thousands of tonnes of captured fish are thrown, dead, back into the sea, because they are the wrong species or size. This practice of discarding the unwanted fish is also decimating stocks. The commission, comprised of the most senior marine environmental scientists, warned that only fishing-free exclusion zones where all fishing is banned - spanning over 33pc of the seas - will allow the damaged areas to recover. It says the presumption in favour of fishing should be reversed and it should be up to fishing interests to demonstrate their activities will not cause damage. It wants spatial planning at sea, in the same way there is on land. Greenpeace's leading scientist Dr Doug Parr told the 
Irish Independent yesterday the situation around Ireland and Britain was "scary" and he warned that cod could soon disappear. The Green Party yesterday called on the Irish Government to push at EU level for "set aside" zones in Irish seas to allow fish stocks to replenish. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea said catches of cod and other fish stocks in the North Sea must be drastically reduced or stopped to help populations recover from years of overfishing. The independent panel recommended a complete halt to fishing cod in the North Sea and the Irish Sea. It said stocks were seriously depleted, with only 46,000 tons remaining in the North Sea this year - less than a third of the recommended minimum of 150,000 tons. Just 5,200 tons remain in the Irish Sea, while over 10,000 are needed for sustainability. Scientists say North Sea stocks have shrunk to about one-tenth of 1970 levels, and warned of depletion on the scale of eastern Canadian waters, where cod disappeared in the 1990s and stocks have yet to recover. Cod, once a working-class staple, is now more of a delicacy in Europe. EU fisheries ministers will decide on the 2005 quotas during a session later this month. Eamon Ryan, Green Party fisheries spokesman, has described the situation as "bleak and very worrying". Mr Ryan said it was now clear that cod stocks were at critical levels off the Irish coast due to overfishing. "It's the politicians, not the fishermen or scientists, who are to blame. Some areas may not now be able to make a comeback." Cod, once plentiful off the Grand Banks, has now completely disappeared after fishermen and politicians dismissed repeated warnings by scientists as scaremongering. Under the EU proposals, huge areas of the North Sea would be sealed off from commercial cod fishing. "If we don't take measures which are quite tough now, the situation can only become worse," EU Fisheries Commissioner Joe Borg said in presenting the proposals. For years, officials have been cutting back annual quotas throughout European waters to save what once were fertile fishing grounds from commercial extinction. "We cannot afford to take a break at this time, as this would ruin all the efforts that we have been doing in the recent years," Mr Borg said. The proposals, he said, were far less stringent than what marine scientists advised, and sought to find a balance to give Europe's fishing fleet a future. 
