stocks
{ Brenda Costigan 
    April 13 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/souper-stars-26437146.html }
You can design a whole menu around soup -- it is wonderfully versatile and can be relied on for so many different occasions. It can be a starter, the main dish of a light meal, a snack, or included in a picnic basket. There are lots of potential combinations of ingredients and with very little effort, you can make anything from thin broth-like soups to hearty chunky soups. To start at the beginning, you need a pot. A heavy, wide saucepan with a lid is ideal, as this will allow for slow simmering on the cooker without fear of burning. My saucepan is 25.5cm (10") wide. The basic ingredients of most soups are some gently cooked onions, and perhaps some garlic. To this base, any choice of vegetables or combination of vegetables and meats or fish can be added. There are three simple steps. The first is to saute (fry gently or "sweat") the onions, garlic and vegetables in a little fat or oil. This softens and flavours them without changing their colour. It's important to stir occasionally. If any meat is being used, it will also be sauted at the start. The second step is to cook the vegetables gently in stock until all the ingredients are tender. For some soups, you can add a third step and puree the cooked vegetables using a blender or food processor. A hand-held blender is good. Or, simply use a potato masher. But be gentle, to avoid splashing. Without a doubt, a good stock is important for a well-flavoured soup. Stock is made by the long, slow cooking of roasted bones and vegetables in water together with herbs and seasoning. The resulting liquid, once strained, is the stock. However, in today's world, one does not always have time for this, so we can use the convenience of a good-quality stock cube, or good concentrated stocks. The stock cube may have a strong flavour that can dominate the soup, so dissolve half or three-quarters of a cube to each pint of water: you can always add more if extra flavour is required. Soups actually benefit from being made a little in advance and then reheated, as this allows the flavours to mingle. Store leftover soup in the fridge for a couple of days or, better still, freeze it in single portions. FIVE-A-DAY SOUP (VEGETABLE AND BACON SOUP) (Pictured) This is a wonderful soup, chock-full of vegetables and flavoured with rashers. I love to serve it as it is, with the neatly diced vegetables visible. If you prefer, liquidise or mash the cooked vegetables to make a thick puree soup. This soup also helps you follow healthy-eating advice, as it gives five of the recommended five-a-day portions of vegetables. The rashers can be omitted if you wish. A spoonful of Greek-style yoghurt or fromage frais on each serving is very tasty. Serve with crusty bread. Serves 5-6. You will need: 4-6 rashers, back or streaky (see note below) 2-3 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion, chopped 2 cloves garlic, crushed or chopped 1 large carrot, diced 2 large potatoes, diced 2 sticks celery, chopped Salt and freshly ground black pepper ½ level teaspoon herbes de Provence (or mixed herbs) ¼ teaspoon hot chilli powder (optional) 1 litre (2pts) chicken stock, made with only 1 chicken stock cube (see note) 1 tin chopped tomatoes 1 bay leaf (optional) To serve: 2-3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley. Note: If you omit the rashers, you may need to use an extra stock cube. Add the extra as necessary, dissolved in a little water. Chop the rashers and fry in ½ tablespoon of the olive oil in a large saucepan until lightly golden. Add the remaining oil and the onion and garlic to the rashers and saute (sweat) gently for a few minutes until soft. Add the rest of the vegetables, seasoning them with salt and pepper and adding the herbs, and chilli powder, if using. Stir them through the mixture thoroughly for 3-5 minutes or so over a medium heat. Now, add all the remaining ingredients. Bring to the boil. Cover with a lid and simmer very gently, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables are tender (about 30 minutes). Check seasoning. Remove the bay leaf. Stir the parsley through the soup. Serve. Note: It is not necessary to thicken this soup. It works very well as chunky vegetable soup. However, if you wish to thicken it, either blend the vegetables with a hand blender, a food processor, or a potato masher. If you want to leave the vegetables chunky but would like the juice a little thicker, use cornflour. Blend four rounded teaspoons of cornflour with a little water to make a runny paste. Add some of the hot soup to the paste and then add the lot back into the soup. Bring to the boil, stirring briskly. POTATO AND CHORIZO SOUP This is another simple soup using potatoes. On their own, potatoes are somewhat bland, but the strong, spicy flavour of the chorizo is wonderful with the potatoes. No other spices are used. A little spinach (frozen or fresh) can be added towards the end of the cooking time. It gives great contrast in colour. Serve with crusty bread. Serves 4-6. You will need: 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 onion, finely chopped 225g (8oz) chorizo, sliced 700g (1½ lb) potatoes, peeled and diced 1 litre (2pts) stock 1 fresh bay leaf 2-3 thin sprigs of thyme Salt and freshly ground black pepper 110g (4oz) spinach, fresh or frozen (optional but nice, see note) To serve: Natural yoghurt or fromage frais Crusty bread Note: A chunk of frozen spinach (thawed) can be added to the soup. If using fresh spinach, cook it first as follows: put the washed, wet spinach leaves into a separate saucepan and cover with a lid. Cook over a moderate heat for a few minutes until the leaves are wilted. Chop the drained leaves and add to the soup as directed. Put the olive oil into a heavy-based saucepan and saute (sweat) the onions for a few minutes to soften -- without browning. Add the sliced chorizo to the onion and cook gently with the lid on for 3-5 minutes to release the flavour and the oils. Do not allow to brown. Next, add the potatoes, stock, herbs and salt and pepper. Bring to the boil and then cover with a lid and simmer gently for about 30 minutes until the potatoes are tender. Lift out the bay leaf and thyme stalks. Add the spinach, if using, and heat through. Serve with natural yoghurt and crusty bread. GARLIC CROUTONS These are very easy to make yourself and are much tastier than the ready-made croutons in the shops. I like to use the oven method as the croutons get crispy, and you use less oil. They will keep in a plastic bag in the fridge for a few weeks, so feel free to make more that you need. You will need: Approx 4 tablespoons olive oil 1 clove garlic 4 slices white bread, cut into 1 cm/½" - thick cubes Frying method: Heat the oil in a frying pan and fry the garlic for a minute or two and lift it out. Then add the bread cubes and toss in the oil and fry until golden. You may need more oil. Oven method: Preheat the oven to 180°C, 350°F, Gas 4. Spread the oil on a tin and add the garlic cut in two. Heat it in the oven for a couple of minutes. Stir the garlic in the oil to flavour the oil, then lift out. Add the prepared bread, tossing it in the oil. Spread out in a single layer and bake for about 10 minutes until golden, stir and turn the cubes at least once in baking. CHUNKY CHICKEN SOUP This is a main-dish soup, ideal for a light lunch. It evolved when I was hungry and had a few chicken breasts in the fridge. Eat with crusty bread. Serves 4. You will need: 3-4 skinless chicken breast fillets 2-4 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion, chopped 2 cloves garlic, chopped 175g (6oz) mushrooms, chopped Salt and freshly ground black pepper 2 medium potatoes, peeled and chopped 2 sticks celery, finely chopped 1 litre (2 pints) stock made with 1-2 chicken stock cubes ¼ teaspoon mixed herbs, plus 1 bay leaf 300 mls (½ pint) fresh milk (optional) 3 rounded teaspoons cornflour (optional) To serve: 1 tablespoon fresh parsley or chives, chopped Cut the chicken breast fillets into chunks (about 6-8 per fillet, depending on the size of the fillet). Heat the oil in a wide, heavy saucepan. Fry the chicken pieces in a few lots until golden and lift out with a perforated spoon. Put the onion and garlic into the saucepan (add more oil if necessary) and saute (sweat) gently until soft. Add the mushrooms to the onions and garlic and fry until soft too (adding a little more oil if necessary). Add the potatoes and celery. Season with salt and pepper and saute for a minute or so. Return the chicken pieces to the saucepan and pour in the stock. Flavour with mixed herbs and bay leaf. Bring to the boil, cover with a lid and simmer very gently for 20-30 minutes until all the ingredients are tender. This delicious soup works without thickening. However, you can do so with a combination of milk and cornflour. Blend 300ml (½ pt) milk into three rounded teaspoons of cornflour and add to the cooked soup. Bring to the boil, stirring all the time. This cooks the cornflour and thickens the soup just a little. Check the seasoning and scatter with the chopped parsley or chives, then serve. PARSNIP AND ROSEMARY SOUP I have a great fondness for parsnips and I have discovered that parsnips combine excellently with a well-flavoured olive oil and sprigs of rosemary, enhancing their robust flavour. This recipe is inspired by a recipe in the Avoca Cafe Cookbook. Here, leeks take the place of the more usual onions. Make sure to slice the leeks very thinly. Serves 4-5. You will need: 4 tablespoons olive oil 125g (4½ oz) leeks, very thinly sliced 400g (14oz) parsnips, peeled and cut into 1cm ½" diameter 3-4 cloves of garlic, peeled and chopped 900 ml (1½ pt) vegetable stock 1 sprig fresh rosemary (3½" long) Salt and freshly ground black pepper To serve: A little extra chicken stock, if necessary 4-6 tablespoonfuls garlic croutons Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan, add the leeks and fry gently until softened, without colouring. Add the parsnip and garlic and stir through the leeks over a gentle heat for a minute or two. Next, add the stock and the rosemary, salt and pepper. Bring to the boil, cover with a lid and simmer gently for about 20 minutes until the parsnips are tender. Lift out the sprig of rosemary and as many of the little spikes as you can. The soup can be left with a chunky texture, or it can be pureed in a food processor. (It is much easier to remove the spikes after soup has been pureed). If, when buzzed to a puree, the soup seems a little too thick, add a little extra chicken stock and bring to the boil. Serve each bowl of soup scattered with the croutons. 
