stocks
{  
    October 08 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/the-second-time-out-for-eircom-could-be-a-better-call-25925620.html }
A recovery in stock markets, combined with a better performance from telcos and a possible float for Belgacom, all make a compelling argument for Eircom to go back to the market THE possibility that Eircom may return to the Irish stock market will surprise few people. It was always on the cards, and even Eircom chief executive Phil Nolan has gone on record saying he would like to do it, when the time is right. When he made those comments several months ago, the right time looked like it would be at least two, and possibly four or five, years away. But things have changed to warrant a fresh look at the prospect of floating the company, a lot sooner than that. Telecommunications flotations tend to happen in the late spring or early summer. Several factors have come together which warrant a look at the possibility of bringing Eircom back to the market in the second quarter of next year. If that doesn't work out, it could be at least the second quarter of 2005 before a similar chance comes again. Stock markets sometimes conspire to create an opportunity for executives and shareholders much sooner than they might have otherwise expected. The down side of stock market turbulence is that sometimes events prevent solid plans from being acted out. For example, take the relatively late decisions by C&C and Spectel to pull their Irish stock market floats last year. Telecommunications internationally has seen a quiet revolution in the last twelve months. The fact that $2 trillion was wiped off the value of telecom stocks around the world after the market peaked in 2000, meant telcos fell massively out of favour. For that reason, the recovery in the sector has been almost unnoticed by many commentators. Major international telcos have tidied up their balance sheets and in recent months they have seen earnings upgrades from analysts. Renewed confidence in stock markets generally is being translated into a growing confidence about some telecom firms. Monday was the busiest day in merger and acquisition activity in European stock markets in a year, spurred on by three big deals, including the acquisition of First Active. In terms of telcos, valuations have improved. Take Deutsche Telekom, currently trading at ?12.60. Its year low was ?8.40. BT is currently trading at £189. Its year low was £140. Portugal Telecom is currently trading at ?7.01 from a year low of ?4.95. France Telecom is currently trading at ?21.78. Its year low was ?7.26. The highly lucrative mobile sector has also seen solid share price gains as sentiment returns to the sector. Vodafone is currently trading at £1.26. Its year low is £1.00 and its lowest level in the last 12 months was just 85p. Similarly, MMO2 is currently trading at 64p, from a year low of 41p. Analysts believe that many telcos have made enough progress in improving their balance sheets to warrant earnings upgrades. That has begun to translate into share price gains. James Harper, of Smith Barney Citigroup in London, said that while top line growth is limited particularly for fixed line operators, there is a fair amount of demand out there for some telco stocks. News last week that Belgacom, the Belgian state-controlled telecommunications company, is going to float in the first quarter of next year, opens a range of possibilities for Eircom to ponder. Firstly, Eircom was never going to be the first European telecommunications company to IPO. It would be too big a risk. If stock markets continue to recover between now and the early part of next year, Belgacom should float successfully. James Harper said the story that fixed line companies have to tell is broadly similar. "Belgacom will have a chance to stand out," he said. He sees no reason why it shouldn't get away, assuming the overall appetite and market conditions currently out there prevail. A successful ?3.5bn Belgacom float in the first quarter of next year will change the landscape for the quoted telecommunications sector. A solid recovery in stock markets, combined with a firming in the performance of telecommunications companies, and then a successful telco float in Q1, all make a compelling argument for Eircom to consider going to the market in the second quarter. Inevitably that is exactly what the corporate finance advisers linked to Eircom's banks and private equity shareholders are doing. The biggest shareholder in Eircom is Providence Equity Partners with 48.3pc. Then comes the staff ESOP with 24pc. Soros Equity Partners owns 19.5pc. Sir Anthony O'Reilly, the company chairman, has around 5.6pc. Goldman Sachs owns 1.6pc. Its recent successful ?1.1bn bond issue meant that some of the ground work for flotation has already been put together. The bond was handled by Deutsche Bank. But Goldman Sachs, which advised the Valentia consortium in its takeover of Eircom and remains a shareholder, is advising on part of the Belgacom float. Eircom is not yet formally preparing for a 2004 float, but enough is happening behind the scenes with advisers linked to the company, to compel the board to consider it as an option. The difficulty for Eircom is that as a fixed line player with consistent and solid revenues it is ideal for the bond market. Companies going for an IPO need a growth story. The market wants to know where the growth will come from. Eircom is allowed to re-enter the mobile phone market in May of next year, right in the middle of the second quarter. By re-entering mobile it would provide fresh competition in what has largely been a duopoly in the one of the most lucrative mobile markets in the world. Eircom would have the financial clout to come in and take a slice of that market. Eircom has shown no interest in buying a 3G licence. This suggests its re-entry into mobile will be in 2G. It has never made any moves to acquire Meteor, something confirmed by Meteor earlier this week. This suggests it will re-enter as a virtual or MVNO mobile operator. It is not clear whether existing 2G players will be able to, or may try to, block that happening. That ultimately depends on the regulator and the terms of the existing 2G licences. The former state company is also making a major push in the broadband market. With around 10,000 customers it is still well short of its stated target of 100,000, but there are positive signs of a take-up in recent months. If it can reach a critical mass in broadband by the middle of next year, it would also contribute to the growth story. Broadband is currently available to 800,000 lines, that is nearly half of all lines in the country. Eircom has dumped its ?100 connection fee as part of a new drive to win subscribers. If Eircom does float on the Irish stock market next year, it would be dramatically different to its 1999 privatisation. Firstly, as a typical IPO the retail element, or extent to which ordinary punters would participate, would be quite low. A flotation would be driven by the appetite of Irish and international financial institutions. The fact that most of the equity is currently held by private equity investors means that a successful flotation could bring about a more stable long term shareholder base. Venture capitalists are always waiting for the right time to exit their investments and cash in. Quoted companies can go on and on without major change or upheaval in the shareholder base. If telecommunications companies recover enough to support an investor appetite for an Eircom float, then it could also place telcos in a strong enough position to just buy out Eircom. This kind of trade sale seems less likely but can't be ruled out. In the meantime, Eircom's shareholders will have plenty to think about in the months ahead. 
