stocks
{ Pat Boyle 
    June 05 2007 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/markets-26295381.html }
Overview: WITH the Dublin stock market closed for the bank holiday, Irish shares were only available through overseas brokerages, with the main action in Irish stocks confined to the London listed companies. US stocks were little changed, as positive broker comments on Wal-Mart Stores and a fresh wave of takeovers tempered concerns about a sharp sell-off in Chinese stocks. European shares fell, led by banking stocks ahead of two central bank meetings this week that will be keenly watched for any signal of higher inflation and rising interest rates. Financials The banks enjoyed a mixed day's trade, with investors buying back in to Bank of Ireland after its shares were sold heavily last week. The selling came despite bullish recommendations from the likes of Goodbody and was put down to fears that it is overly dependent on the domestic Irish banking market and the construction boom in particular. By the close yesterday, the stock had climbed back 6c to €16.03. In contrast, rival AIB was sold down during the session, closing 21c adrift at €22.30. It was a similar story at Anglo, with the shares falling 20c to €17.38 as investors braced themselves for this week's expected interest rate hike by the ECB. DCC DCC was among the few industrial stocks to trade in any sort of volume, with demand for the stock driven by interest in its rapidly expanding UK energy business. The stock advanced 14c to €25.75. London The London market finished in negative territory as new fears over the Chinese stock market overshadowed trading. The FTSE-100 Index was 12.6 points down at 6664.1 at the close, as weaker-than-expected US factory order data late in the session added to concerns over an 8pc drop seen on China's main share index. A lack of major heavyweight corporate news added to the Footsie's sluggish start to the week. Pharmaceuticals firm Shire topped the risers' board, with a 1pc, or 14p increase to 1192p, after losses seen at the end of last week. Traders said the firm was becoming the choice stock in the sector following GlaxoSmithKline's recent losses. Vodafone Vodafone had set the early pace among blue-chips but finished 1.2p down at 161.7p despite an upgrade for the market heavyweight from broker HSBC, which raised its target price for the stock to 200p. Property firm Hammerson was the top faller, down 27p at 1588p after speculation over a bid from British Land subsided. British Land was off 24p at 1436p, while Land Securities was also off 32p at 1919p as the sector fell out of favour with the market. 
