stocks
{ Liam Fitzgerald 
    December 02 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/check-feed-stocks-now-26498153.html }
Coming into the autumn, stocks of winter feed were expected to be adequate. However, the wet weather through September and October resulted in cattle having to be housed two to three weeks earlier than normal. On a small proportion of farms with heavy soils, cattle were housed in September and have remained indoors since then. There are now concerns about the adequacy of silage stocks, which is indicated by rising prices for baled silage and hay, particularly in the northwest. If you have had cattle indoors for longer than normal or than you had budgeted, it would be wise to check out feed stocks against requirements now so as to avoid any panic about feed supply next spring. To calculate requirements you need to get pen and paper, make two columns with all feed supplies on one side and requirements on the other. On the supply side, you have the tonnes of conventional silage, calculated by measuring the cubic capacity of the pit in cubic metres or cubic feet (1 tonne = 1.3 cu metres or 50cu ft, approximately); the number of bales of silage, hay and feeding straw; other forages such as roots and green crops. Wilting Baled silage can vary widely in dry matter (DM). If baled directly, or after some time on the ground in wet weather where no wilting occurred, the dry matter may be the same as conventional silage, eg 20pc-22pc DM. If there was a successful wilt of one to two days in good weather, the dry matter could be 25pc-35pc. On average, baled silage turns out to be about 28pc-32pc DM. A tonne of pit silage of 20pc DM contains 200kg DM (1,000 x 20pc = 200), while a 650kg bale of silage at 30pc DM contains almost the same dry matter (650 x 30pc = 195kg) Therefore, you can almost equate a bale of wilted silage with a tonne of pit silage in terms of DM. However, the feeding value could be quite different, depending on the digestibility of the respective silages. On the demand side, list the number of stock in each category and their requirements per month, multiplied by the number of months of indoor feeding. The requirements per month are shown in the table below. Fodder short Following your calculations, if a shortage is anticipated, you then need to look at the options. Obviously, these involve lowering the demand or increasing the supply. Lowering the demand could be done by reducing the feed allowance to (some) stock or by the earlier sale of stock. Neither of these may be sensible options. Dry sucker cows in very good condition can be restricted but should not be allowed go below body condition score 2.5 at calving in spring. Weanlings and store cattle going to grass in spring have a target daily gain of about 0.5kg and should be fed silage to appetite plus appropriate supplementation depending on silage quality. The weanling market is not very exciting at present and would not encourage the sale of stock, especially where these will be needed to maintain stocking rates next summer. To increase the supply there is the choice of buying forage and/or buying additional concentrates. How the forage and concentrates is rationed between the various stock depends on their stage in the production cycle, their overall feed requirements and convenience factors. As a general guide, target the large roughage consumers for restricted or minimum roughage allowance, rather than the weanlings that are smaller users of roughage. In this regard, finishing cattle can be put on an all-concentrate diet and sucker cows can be put on a restricted roughage diet of silage or straw supplemented with concentrates. All stock need a minimum daily allowance of roughage to maintain satisfactory rumen function. Where feed is restricted to below the natural appetite, it is recommended to feed a minimum of about 0.8pc of animal bodyweight as roughage DM. For example, a 500kg store should get a minimum of 500kg x 0.8pc = 4kg DM or 20kg silage of 20pc DM. To get a gain of 0.3 kg/day, this animal would also need 3-4kg concentrates. Where concentrates are fed ad lib, as in the final finishing period, the roughage allowance can be less, usually 1kg roughage DM/day is adequate. The choice between buying forage and concentrates will depend largely on value for money. Fortunately, concentrate prices are falling at present even while roughage prices are rising. However, there is a huge variation in prices depending on location and scale of purchase. If barley can be bought at €200 per tonne and soya at €340 per tonne, average silage is worth about €30 per tonne and a 700kg bale at 30pc DM is worth a similar amount. 
