stocks
{  
    January 02 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/so-who-is-going-to-be-top-of-the-stocks-in-the-next-year-26278287.html }
THIS time last year we at Oppenheim Investment Managers focused on a number of themes which underlined our stock picks, namely through energy sector strength and Asian economic growth. The list of stocks produced a range of returns of +84pc to -32pc, with an average return of +26pc. This return was not quite as good as our 51pc return from the previous year but was still significantly ahead of the global equity markets. Looking toward 2007, these two main themes remain, along with other themes that have emerged; such as dollar weakness, European retail strength and technology semiconductor growth. Dollar weakness One of the ways we invest in the theme of dollar weakness has been the purchase of commodity and gold stocks. In this context, we would continue with Novagold, a stock we picked last year which was up 63pc in euro terms. In the past year, there has been a hostile bid which has been rejected, but we feel with its assets in the politically stable environment of North America, coupled with its large reserves, further significant upside is possible. For some time we have predicted that energy prices will stay at higher prices and we don't see prices of US$20-$30 per barrel in the next few years. Again this year we suggest exposure to Pride International, a US drilling company. The stock was up in dollar terms last year but produced a negative return of 7.7pc in euros. The valuation of this stock suggests that it could be the target of merger and acquisition activity, while at the same time having good exposure to energy exploration capital spending. Joy Global is a US-based mining equipment maker and supplier, which we think is a good opportunity. Closer to home in this sector, we think that Kenmare Resources poses an attractive investment at current prices. As it gets closer to full production from its Mozambique titanium resource it should attract additional investor interest. The strength of the European economy is likely to continue, and the banking sector should benefit from a strong retail environment. Last year we suggested exposure to Commerzbank as a way of gaining exposure to this theme. We would reiterate this recommendation in 2007. Another stock in this sector which has been a relatively poor performer for many years has been the RBS group. In recent weeks we have seen renewed investor interest in this stock, and with a yield of 4pc we think it will prove a profitable investment at these levels. Last year we suggested exposure to CSR plc, a semiconductor company, as a play on Bluetooth technology devices. Despite the stock losing more than 32pc of its value last year, we would continue to recommend this stock. For additional exposure in this sector we would look towards a Dutch semiconductor company, ASM international. This company makes machinery used to produce semiconductor devices, and its valuation and an ongoing restructuring is the reason it makes the list. Time Warner Time Warner Inc, a media and entertainment company, is another suggestion based on its valuation and the possibility of it realising value for shareholders from its cable and online assets. The combination of factors we use in assessing the valuation of asset markets suggest that equities remain attractively valued going into 2007. Joe O'Dwyer is chief investment director at Oppenheim Investment Managers. 
