stocks
{ Siobhan  Kavanagh Nutrition specialist, Teagasc Kildalton 
    October 14 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/feeding-frenzy-26484553.html }
SILAGE stocks in some parts of the country have been significantly depleted as a result of the poor weather conditions in August and September. It is important to plan now for the winter ahead. There is no point in facing the problem next January, when silage stocks are gone and supplementary feeds are costly. It is vital to establish the extent of the likely deficit in silage stocks. This requires estimating the quantity of silage on the farm and the silage requirement of the stock there. The quantity of pit silage available on the farm can be measured by multiplying the length by width by average height (all measurements in metres). The number of tonnes can then be calculated using the conversions in Table 1. Table 2 outlines the estimated feed requirements for various stock categories. Once you have established the extent of the problem, the options available to you can be examined. The silage required for the winter is driven by the length of the winter and the number of livestock on the farm. The options include planning for a shorter winter, reducing stock numbers on the farm, outwintering stock or buying supplementary feed. Planning for a shorter winter has to be the first option. Set up the farm now so that grass is available for grazing next spring. Farmers may be tempted to graze later into the autumn and to lower average farm covers in an effort to shorten the indoor housing period. But this could prove to be a false economy, as research has shown that for every one day delay in closing in autumn, there was 15kg fewer grass DM available for grazing in spring. Another option for reducing the demand for silage may be to reduce the number of stock to be carried over the winter. Cull cow consumption For example, a cull cow on grass silage plus meals for 100 days will consume almost five tonnes of silage. This is enough to feed two weanlings for the same period of time. The margin on finishing cattle and cull cows over the winter will depend on their initial value, the associated feed costs and other costs and the selling price. Contact your local Teagasc adviser to discuss economics of finishing stock. The demands of the Nitrates Directive as well as housing considerations and the quota situation may also dictate a decision on whether or not to sell stock. Buying silage or other supplementary feed is another option. Buying baled silage can be like buying lucky bags -- you just don't know what you are getting until you go to feed it. Rather than buying silage of dubious quality, it may be more economical to feed a minimum amount of silage or straw plus concentrates. (See the article on the value of feedstuffs, opposite.) Ensure adequate feeding space is available for all animals, that diets are correctly balanced for protein and minerals and that a clean water supply is available. Outwintering of stock on grass or brassica crops will be an option in some parts of the country. Non-compliance with Cross Compliance, REPS and the demands of the Nitrates Directive will override any potential cost savings from this option. 
