stocks
{  
    December 30 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/going-for-a-mix-of-well-priced-and-speculative-stock-picks-25920146.html }
Following on the success of last year's tips, our market analyst is sticking to  the same strategy for 2004 RECOMMENDING a small number of stocks remains a dangerous game in these very volatile stock markets. I was pleasantly surprised to find out that of my five stock recommendations in this article last year, four of them are up. I am, therefore, sticking to the same strategy of recommending three stocks that are attractively priced and have little downside, in my opinion - even if stock markets disappoint in 2004 - and two more speculative stocks. All the stocks fit our Contrarian Fund investment style (the Fund's objective is to capitalise on the volatility of stock markets, and buy shares that are deeply out of favour with investors, look for a 15-20pc gain, and move on). As prices are so volatile, I have given the price on the day I have recommended the stocks. In addition, readers should be aware the Bloxham Funds are likely to hold some of the stocks discussed below. 1. AIB (?12.20) If 2002 was a management tour de force for AIB, surviving and putting well behind it the Rusnak debacle, 2003 has to go down as an 
annus horribilis. Despite strong lending growth in Ireland, recovering investment banking activity and a strong performance from its US associate bank, M&T, earnings are only set to rise 3pc. Out of the 305 stocks in the Eurostoxx index, AIB languishes at position 280 for stock performance this year. The "buy" notes are drying up as investors, happy to buy in the ?12.25-?12.75 range, begin to doubt the valuation argument. At around ?12, AIB is compelling value for any long-term portfolio - at this price, for every ?100 invested in AIB it will earn just over ?10, give you a dividend of about ?4.20 and reinvest the other ?5.80 back into the business. 2. Unilever (£4.96) A great brand-name stock that has lost its way in recent years, issuing several disappointing trading statements. The stock has been severely derated and can now be bought for only 12 times 2004 earnings - not expensive at all, and a big discount to main rivals Nestlé, and Procter & Gamble. I am not convinced this is a great long-term hold as revenue growth is pedestrian, rather a stock that could give a 10-15pc gain if news flow is only mildly better. 3. Marks & Spencer (£2.70) For such a blue-chip name, this stock has had a rocky ride over the past few years, falling from £6.50 in 1997 down to £1.70 in 2000, and back up again to £3.80 in late 2002 as new management invigorated its products and stores. However, the analysts say M&S has now lost its way again in fashion wear, and that it is losing out in food to the seemingly unstoppable Tesco. Maybe so, but that's in the price now, and my own "analysts", ie friends who shop there, tell me things are improving. The stock has underperformed the UK retail sector by 25pc over the past year, and now trades on about 11 times earnings and a 4pc dividend yield. This is again a stock that could rise 10-15pc on some good news. 4. CPL Resources (?0.45) A tiny company (market capitalisation of under ?20m), this is a well-managed, conservative company with the largest market share (about 10pc) of the highly-fragmented Irish recruitment market. With employment set to rise again next year, and the technology sector showing genuine signs of recovery, the company's highly-leveraged earnings profile is very attractive to an investor. In addition, its tight shareholding structure, combined with its high market share, could make it an attractive acquisition target for a large international recruitment firm. 5. Royal & SunAlliance (£0.80) It's hard to find better examples of shareholder value destruction than the badly executed merger of Royal Insurance and Sun Alliance. However, with new management (incentivised), a strengthened balance sheet after the recent rights issue, a low market valuation and a better pricing environment, one could see this stock fly with a bit of good news. Pramit Ghose is head of investment strategy at Bloxham Stockbrokers 
