stocks
{  
    July 03 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/freeman-26039962.html }
Investing is a long game, so you need a long view IF A song reflected investor sentiment it might be Frank Zappa's The Torture Never Stops, or maybe Elvis's Heartbreak hotel. June was a stock market disaster, making the last quarter one of the worst ever. A glance across markets shows blood everywhere. This is shocking for longer-term investors because we now suffer a third year of price falls, last witnessed during the bleak 1930s. Yet the collapse was not uniform. If, like Derry's Apprentice Boys, you shut the gates in time you will survive, with only the odd rodent spoiling your siege diet. Excluding Elan (and shrewd players were out by 2001), the Irish market is up 3pc on the year, though we lost nearly 8pc in June. Irish defensive stocks performed. Our financials outperformed European peers by 90pc. The ramparts held. The reason why Ireland's defensive stocks held was that they were undervalued to start with. US markets generally and new economy stocks particularly remain over-valued by any historical measure. Analysts peddle new paradigms and unconventional profit measures. Reality check: American blue chip shares trade at 45 times past profits. Even incorporating growth, this ratio falls only to the low 20s. Over the long term, price earnings ratios average about 14. The ratio stayed at current levels only before the 1929 and 1987 crashes. This correction lasts so long because there was such 1990s' excess to correct. Excess is everywhere in the US, an overvalued stock market and currency; here, increasing public service pay at the cost of cutting services and raising taxes. Should we panic, like the fund manager exasperated by WorldCom into throwing in the telecom towel? Why fold like a bad bluffer on poker night if you've a long-term perspective and risk only what you can afford to lose? Freeman takes profits when individual shares excel, like Irish financials recently, pharma in 2001 and tech in late 1999. This isn't schizophrenic, but contrarian. Professional investors often are when managing their own money. They share market perception of where we're going, but like judo masters battling drunks, try to exploit temporarily off-balance markets. Good companies deliver longer-term. But prices gyrate like lap-dancers. So there are both directional and trading opportunities: selling good stocks when over-priced or buying bad stocks when distressed. Embattled Glanbia was a buy. Now it's a better company, but a quadrupled share price anticipates uncertain progress. The same was true of First Active and almost any distressed company that can't go bust or be taken private cheaply. The smart investment is often to buy a troubled company and sell a dynamic one. All investment rules yield to pragmatism. Kerry or Anglo Irish Bank multiples might be acceptable in bull markets but not in subdued times. People over-react to recent events. This lengthy correction seems to confirm behavioural finance enthusiasts practised for centuries yet now seen as new academic thinking. Psychology is essential for trading. But the idea that emotions, rather than fundamentals, drive markets was dominant before 1950. It's hazardous to generalise from short periods. On the basis of post-1995 experience, many prefer US stocks. But the 'long-run' analysis pre-1995 said the opposite. Seven years isn't long enough to learn how to avoid the seven deadly sins. Risk happens. The market may be disjointed but, as Keynes learnt to his cost, markets can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent. No long-term investor escapes periodic corrections: bears rampage a third of the time. In theory, you can enter and exit. Freeman exited technology and financial stocks well, but sold Esat, Ryanair and even Elan too early. Most people who started investing after 1982 assume shares follow a random climb, up a steadily steeper hill. But as awareness of stock attractions spread, we drove prices up, increasing financial risks and reducing upside. Simple sums show how things became unsustainable between 1990 and 2000, when the average yearly return on US shares was over 19pc. Many consider a decade long. So they believe 19pc is a reasonable expectation. They see recent disappointments as exceptional, rather than part of the rule. Since most punters hope to beat the average, they aim for 25pc or higher. The gap between expectation and reality is that profits underline valuations. Will profits grow by 10pc yearly over the coming decade? Even if they do, and shares rise by 19pc yearly, you end up with a Japanese bubble-like price/earnings ratio of 75. The USA's 200-year average is 14. Most markets are lower. So bullish market expectations are implausible. Most US stocks are poor value. Investing is a long game, so you need a long view. There are also speculative, trading profits if you are sensitive to fads, focusing on immediate supply and demand for shares, rather than the underlying business. The shrewdest investors combine telephoto and wide-angle lenses. Most people get best results with a diversified portfolio of quality stocks acquired at reasonable values on the basis of fundamentals, not hype. Trading is the icing. Fundamentals are the cake. 
