stocks
{  
    January 12 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/bulls-may-be-running-but-bears-are-lurking-26198355.html }
World stock markets, with a few notable exceptions, have been rising now for upwards of five years. Investors are naturally nervous that the good times cannot go on indefinitely. Continuing our introductory series on investing, Mark Cunningham, head of Personal Business at Bank of Ireland Asset Management, charts previous stock market crashes and the lessons we can learn from them in the first of a two-part article. BULL MARKETS, it is often said, are borne on pessimism, grow on scepticism, mature on optimism and die on euphoria. Throughout the history of investments, markets are dotted with examples of the dreaded crash. The more spectacular ones have lived long in the folklore of investments. Most people will be reasonably familiar with the following examples of major and recent stock market crashes in the 20th century.
 Black Thursday 1929 The US stock market lost 12.6pc in a single day sending shock waves around world markets, sparking the Great Depression. A total of 45pc was lost in real terms up until 1931.
 OPEC price rise 1974-75 Inflation, oil price rises, and industrial unrest conspired to produce dramatic losses in stock markets. In March 1974, equities fell by 22pc. The bottom did not come until December 1974.
 Black Monday 1987 The US market lost 22.6pc of its value in a single day on October 19, with similar losses in other major world markets.
 Japanese stock market collapses 1990 From its peak in 1990 the Japanese market has lost over 60pc of its value in the most prolonged bear market in a developed market in decades.
 Hong Kong/Far East 1997 Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index lost 10pc in its biggest one-day fall. There are other examples of lesser crashes. However, `Nonetheless, crashes can and do happen, and what's more, they tend to happen out of the blue.' Dramatic crashes are infrequent events. Stock markets generally go through slightly more gentle ups and downs than these dramatic events suggest. Nonetheless, crashes can and do happen, and what's more, they tend to happen out of the blue. Although we would all like to have some advance warning of coming collapses, this is simply not always possible. Despite this, abandoning the stock market amid the initial financial earthquake, fearing after shocks will only make matters worse, is not necessarily the best approach. Another lesson that can be learnt from the stock market crashes that have happened in the past is that their effects can be limited by diversification, both across markets and asset types. This reduces the risk of problems in a single market having a major effect on your portfolio of investments. Always remember that nobody can completely guard against adverse world events affecting their investment. Because such events are largely unpredictable, the best way to see out the uncertainty of investing is to give it plenty of time. For readers who ask the question when will the next crash happen the answer is unknown. If history repeats itself, such events may happen in the future. If the same history repeats, then equity investment is likely to come through such events to continue to be the top performing asset class in the long term. Investors who saw the effects of the biggest stock market convulsions in recent history in 1987, have since learnt the lesson that panic can be the most expensive of strategies.  Next week's article will explain why. 
