stocks
{  
    March 23 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/baltimores-value-dips-as-tech-stocks-take-beating-26122581.html }
By PAT BOYLE     SHARES in Baltimore Technologies shed another 10pc of  their value yesterday as high-tech stocks came in for a pounding in... SHARES in Baltimore Technologies shed another 10pc of their value yesterday as high-tech stocks came in for a pounding in London and Dublin. Baltimore has been the focus of intense interest since Monday, when it joined the FTSE 100. The continued drift in the stock it lost 12pc of its value on Tuesday has led to speculation that its stay in the top 100 may be brief. Shares in the internet security business peaked in London at stg£150 on February 23. By yesterday they were marked at stg£81.43, bringing their 11-day fall to over 40pc. The drift was sparked by comments made by Prime Minister Tony Blair and President Bill Clinton to the effect that companies should not be allowed to make money out of the human gene mapping programme. Their stance came as a surprise to investors in the biotech sector, and the fallout among biotech stocks has quickly spread to other high-tech stocks. But NCB analyst Robert Hussey remained optimistic over the outlook for high-tech stocks, claiming there had been no shift in the fundamentals governing the value of the sector. He said the warning on the genome project, allied to the profit warning from Fyffes earlier this week, had made the markets edgy, with the result that they had decided to take a profit. At the same time, there has been a shift from high-tech stocks, including telecoms and new media, towards more traditional companies. In the US, this movements led to a 20pc upwards re-rating for the key bank stocks this week. Mr Hussey believes the correction will bottom out over the next couple of weeks, with a potential downside of about 5pc for the tech sector. After that, he sees a refocusing on technological stocks and is particularly bullish over the prospects for Baltimore and its stablemates such as Horizon, Iona and Trintech. He believes that as a facilitator of business on the web, Baltimore stands to gain, regardless of where that business comes from. Other analysts supported his view, with Merrill Lynch analyst Coleen Kaiser pinning a price target of stg£145 on the stock over the next 12 to 18 months. She described the current mark as a good buying opportunity. Mr Hussey is bullish on other service providers, such as Trintech and Horizon. Mr Hussey said yesterday's launch of Horizon's ASP service alone is worth an additional euro 3.50 a share to the company. ASP allows clients to rent application software and is aimed at high-growth companies in the technology sector. He is less bullish on companies such as lastminute.com, pointing out that they are merely intermediaries that is, sub- scriber-based internet operators who stand to lose when the companies whose products they are selling wake up to the potential of the web themselves. 
