stocks
{ Samantha McCaughren 
    January 19 2020 07:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/tech-workers-get-a-taste-of-share-success-enjoyed-by-kerry-38872727.html }
The mood music around Kerry Group hit a downbeat note last month when it failed to buy DuPont's nutrition business. It would have been a mega-takeover with a $26bn (€23.4bn) price tag, making it the largest-ever deal almost inked by an Irish company. However, it lost out to New York-based International Flavors & Fragrances (IFF). Plenty of commentary followed, most of it negative in tone and fretting over what would come next for the Irish company. However, some observers of Kerry believe that the outcome highlights a number of positive features about the group. One is its discipline, as it resisted the temptation to overpay for DuPont.  It is also a reminder that Kerry Group is now one of the world's most powerful and successful food ingredients companies, one of only a handful capable of taking on the DuPont subsidiary. It may not have won out on this deal, but given the world's growing food needs and sustainability issues around our traditional diets in the west, among other things, Kerry is well-positioned for the future. Leaving the DuPont takeover excursion aside, Kerry shareholders had a very good year in 2019.  Thousands of farmers are shareholders in Kerry Group, predominantly in west Munster. Kerry Co-op owns 13.7pc of the listed company and it is believed that another tranche of plc shares is owned directly by farmers. So farmers and their families own, in total, 15pc to 20pc of the company, either through shares in the plc or the co-op. The Kerry share price went from €89 at the start of last year to €113 by year-end. That is a 27pc increase and represents a total market cap boost of around €4.5bn in 12 months. This group of Irish shareholders saw their stock value increase by several hundred million euro - conservatively €750m, but possibly more depending on just how much stock is held directly in the plc.  The current value of their total stake in Kerry is worth around €3bn, but possibly significantly more.  Sources close to the farming world said that the amount of shares held by individuals differs significantly, with active farmers in a much stronger position than non-active. As the shares are not evenly distributed, averages are meaningless. But there is plenty to go around a few thousand farmers.  Thirty years ago, the stock was worth less than €1 and a tremendous amount of wealth has been created. Over the past three decades, many farmers regularly cashed in tens of thousands of euro of stock, as the co-op distributed shares and individuals also sold their personal stock. Billions of euros worth of stock has already enriched the lives of many. It is often underestimated just how much of an impact this extra cash has had on that part of the country.  Some farmers may argue that the co-op holding is now inaccessible to them. However, they will access it eventually.  It may take an event like a takeover of Kerry or some other major transaction, but in time, these shares will be distributed to farmers and their families.  As it stands, some shareholders plan to leave their stakes to the next generation to avoid capital gains tax, so Kerry will keep on giving for some time to come. A point often missed in the discussion about the role of foreign direct investment (FDI) firms in Ireland is the wealth their presence here is building up for employees. Recent headlines have focused on the large salaries enjoyed by tech employees, as well as their envious pay increases. But, often, the stock options are the real prize.  Internationally, a number of the 'FAANGs' (Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, Google) had extraordinary stock market performances last year.  Several of these super-hot companies have significant operations here. Unlike traditional companies, tech firms typically give their employees stock options as an incentive. Google workers, of which there are 8,000 in Ireland, saw the value of shares in parent company Alphabet climb from $1,047 (€943) at the start of 2019 to $1,361 last December - and that stock has continued to rise this month. That's a 30pc increase in a year. Apple employs over 6,000 people here and the very many shareholders among them saw their paper wealth grow even more significantly over the past year. In January 2019, Apple shares were at $148 but closed the year at $290.  That is almost a doubling in the value of Apple stock, as the company's market capitalisation topped $1.3trn. It is a perk tech workers rarely highlight but during the last recession, many ordinary employees quietly kept some high-ticket businesses ticking over. As is often pointed out, many of the employees of these tech companies come from other parts of the world and may move away from Ireland in time, bringing their wealth with them. But just like the farmers in Kerry Group, the stock market success of the likes of Apple and Google and their long-established connections to Ireland will change the lives of thousands of people and their families for some time to come. Sunday Indo Business 
