stocks
{  
    February 03 2015 12:20 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/business/good-cashflow-will-help-your-business-thrive-30960066.html }
Q Can you please give me some advice on cashflow - I seem to be constantly checking bank account to ensure I've sufficient funds to pay my bills. Despite having a profitable retail business, there seems to be more outgoings that incomings. I'm constantly at my overdraft limit. A Cashflow is often referred to as the life-blood of a business. By managing the money that is coming into and out of your business well, you will keep your business alive and allow it to thrive. However, even the most profitable business ventures will fail if they run short of cash. Remember that you are certainly not alone in experiencing cashflow difficulties in your business. In fact, cashflow is one of the most cited reasons why more than half of Irish businesses fail in their first four years. There are a number of business areas that you need to look at in order to achieve tighter cashflow management: - Accounts receivables: i.e. money coming into your business - typically in retail you make the sale and are paid for same immediately. If you accept credit card payments then you should review the terms - are you waiting a number of days before the payment reaches your bank account? If you do offer credit then perhaps you could review the terms, and offer a discount or rebate if bill is paid promptly. - Accounts payable: i.e. money flowing out of your business- make the most of credit terms offered by suppliers, renegotiating them is possible to give further credit days. Pay bills by direct transfer from bank account as close to due date as possible, taking care not to incur late payment charges. - Stock: how much of your cashflow is tied up in stock, sitting on your shelves, waiting to be turned into cash. Take care when choosing stock  - a good deal from a supplier is only a good deal if you can turn it into cash (i.e. sell it) in a short space of time. Weigh up the benefits of discounts on bulk ordering. Be mindful of changes in trends or fashions or of stock that has a Best Before Date. Listen to customers when ordering stock - is this stock item something customers actually want? - Profitability: Is your stock priced at the right profit margin. It won't matter how much volume of stock you are selling if your profit margin is out of line. You need to identify your breakeven cost for products, factoring in overheads, and ensure the sales are then priced accordingly. -Managing overheads: One of the largest overheads of a retail business is staffing - you need to review staff levels, as over staffing will really eat into profits. Staff schedules should be reviewed to ensure sufficient staff are on hand to deal with customers and sell product, without over staffing. Other overhead costs should be regularly reviewed to ensure you are getting the best value for your money, such as light and heat, insurance, advertising. Our 6 top tips in order to help you to improve your cash-flow today are: 1. Conduct regular stock-takes and review your purchasing on a weekly basis. 2. Measure your best selling & highest margin products. 3. Stop purchasing those 'hard to shift' products. 4. Implement a strict purchasing policy. 5. Reduce old stock and increase your cash-flow by having a stock clearance sale. 6. Contact your suppliers to renegotiate your credit terms in order to give you more time to sell stock and reduce your cash gap liability.  If you would like any further information on how we can help you grow your business in the right direction get in touch on 053 9170507 or visit our website www.rda.ie Wexford People 
