stocks
{ Martin O'Sullivan 
    December 02 2016 10:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/dairy/facts-and-figures-do-the-sums-add-up-on-contract-rearing-for-beef-farmers-35251216.html }
Geographic and demographic factors around land availability present a barrier to expansion for many farmers.  The solution may lie in collaboration. Collaboration between dairy and non-dairy farmers in replacement heifer production may offer scope for a substantial increase in milk production while also presenting non-dairy farmers with a reliable new income opportunity. Contract rearing will generally be considered only where access to land is a serious impediment to expansion. However, contract rearing may also be an attractive option for those with adequate land but with a labour or infrastructure deficiency as it can allow a dairy farmer to concentrate solely on maximising his/her enterprise's total milk production. The arrangement in simple terms involves a dairy farmer entering into a contractual arrangement with another farmer. Replacement stock are reared on the other farmer's holding. All variable and overhead costs (associated with rearing) are incurred by the rearer -- for example, bedding, feed, fertiliser for grazing land etc. Sometimes the stock owner (the dairy farmer) will cover the extra costs of specific vaccinations and breeding. Charges are agreed in advance, dependent upon the system, and will be on a 'per head per day basis' or 'per kg of liveweight gain' basis. The system of rearing will be agreed to by both parties in advance as will target growth rates. Like any system, there are benefits and weaknesses which both parties must carefully weigh up. 
 
Close
 / BENEFITS WEAKNESSES CONTRACT ESSENTIALS Written contracts are essential. The success or failure of a contract heifer rearing enterprise may depend on the quality of the contract between the heifer rearer and the dairy farmer. Badly constructed contracts, incomplete contracts or no contracts often result in uncertainty and disputes. Contracts should cover the following: Martin O'Sullivan is the author of the ACA Farmers Handbook. He is a partner in O'Sullivan Malone and Co, accountants and registered auditors. www.som.ie. Ph: 051 640397 Indo Farming 
