stocks
{ John Mulligan 
    April 14 2014 09:33 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/stockbrokers-share-over-27m-after-ise-becomes-a-plc-30185425.html }
Ireland's leading stockbroking firms will split more than €27m following the demutualisation of the Irish Stock Exchange. The exchange – founded in 1793 and one of the oldest in the world – formally confirmed yesterday that it has changed its corporate structure from a limited company to a public limited company. The change was effected last Friday. The move had been long expected and allows the exchange's members to benefit from the €45m in reserves that have been accumulated by the business. Of that €27.5m is to be distributed among the members. The country's biggest stockbroking firm, Davy, has the biggest stake in the Irish Stock Exchange, with a 37.5pc holding. Goodbody Stockbrokers, which is owned by Fexco, has a 26.2pc stake; Investec, 18pc; RBS 6.3pc; Cantor Fitzgerald 6pc; and Dublin-based firm Campbell O'Connor has a 6pc holding. The six firms were guarantors of the Irish Stock Exchange under its former structure. The €27.5m will be shared equally between them, regardless of the stakes they hold in the new plc. That means they'll each receive almost €4.6m. There's no payment with regards to Bloxham Stockbrokers, which went bust in 2012 after admitting it was insolvent. Its membership of the exchange was revoked six months after it went bust. Its stock exchange business was transferred to Davy Stockbrokers. Bloxham's membership of the exchange was terminated after the Central Bank suspended the firm from trading in late May 2012 as a result of concerns about its financial position. Deirdre Somers, the chief executive of the Irish Stock Exchange, welcomed the new corporate structure. "The new legal structure brings the ISE more in line with corporate norms which we believe is more appropriate for the successful, diverse international business that the ISE has become," she said. "The change also provides us with greater flexibility for our future development which is of benefit to all customers and stakeholders." The change was approved by the Central Bank. The stock exchange also engaged with the Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation on the move. All regulatory rights and responsibilities have been transferred to the new entity. Irish Independent 
