stocks
{ Brenda Costigan 
    October 04 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/a-cheaper-cut-above-26571372.html }
If you're trying to balance the household budget , enjoy The Good Life, and keep meat on the menu, then why not try some of the cheaper cuts, says Brenda Costigan, as they're very, very tasty, easy on the pocket and they can often be prepared in advance. Ponder for a moment the weekly ration of the average adult in Britain during World War Two. This was a time when the health of the nation was, ironically, never better, at least for those left at home. A week's ration for an adult included: 2oz (50g) cheese, 2oz (50g) butter, 4oz (110g) margarine, one egg, and the meat allowance was all you could buy for 1/6d. The government of the day also put great effort into encouraging people to make the best use of their rations. It is hard to imagine how people managed. I nibble that weekly ration of cheese just passing through the kitchen. Next time I make an omelette, I'll think of that one egg. Perhaps the Celtic Tiger caused us to be extravagant with food. Meat is usually one of the more expensive items on the cook's shopping list: most of us shop and cook in a hurry so we got into the habit of buying the quick-to-cook meats, which are also the most expensive, However, you really can save on the housekeeping by using one of the cheaper cuts of meat, and they are very tasty, too -- that is one of the major advantages of using them. The disadvantage of most cheaper cuts is that they can be tough if cooked for a short time, and often they have more fat and bone. Happily, slow cooking will tenderise them. The secret of combining cheaper cuts and a busy schedule is to plan and shop ahead, so the slow cooking can be done in advance. A friend of mine cooks three dinners every Monday evening, ensuring a calm dinner three days a week. Shoulder of lamb is a relatively inexpensive joint that is full of flavour. It is fatty in parts, and is not that easy to carve. Buying a boned and rolled joint, which will naturally be a little more expensive, will make serving easier. I like to roast this joint in advance, then, having made the gravy, I slice the meat, discarding any fatty bits, and immerse the slices in the gravy, ready to be reheated at very short notice: great family food. It can also be frozen. Stock or wine in the roasting dish will result in tasty juices for the gravy.  CREAMY IRISH STEW This is my twist on the traditional Irish stew recipe. Serves 4. You will need: 700g (1½ lb) stewing lamb or gigot chops 2 carrots, sliced 2 onions, quartered 2 cloves, the apple tart kind; insert in the onion Sprig of parsley 1-2 bay leaves Sprig of thyme Salt and freshly ground black pepper Water or chicken stock 50g (2oz) butter 50g (2oz) flour 110g (4oz) frozen peas, thawed 1 tablespoon lemon juice 3 tablespoons cream (optional) Fresh parsley, chopped Cut the stewing lamb into bite-size pieces -- if you're using gigot chops leave them whole, as it's easier to cut them up after they are cooked. Put the stewing lamb or gigot chops, whichever you're using, into a saucepan with the sliced carrots, the onions with the clove buds in them, the parsley, bay leaves and thyme, and the salt and freshly ground black pepper. Pour in enough water or chicken stock, whichever you're using, to just cover everything. Bring to the boil, then simmer gently with the lid on until the meat is tender. This takes about one hour. If you have time, let the saucepan sit for a while to let any excess fat solidify for easy removal. If not, dab the surface quickly several times with a series of paper towels to soak up the fat. If you've used gigot chops, lift them out and cut them into chunks, discarding any fat or little bones. Strain off 900ml (2 pts) of the liquid. Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the flour, cooking them together for 2-3 minutes until they become sandy in texture without browning. Blend in the 900ml (2 pts) of strained-off cooking liquid and bring to the boil to thicken. Pour back into the saucepan containing the meat and vegetables. Add the peas. Add the lemon juice and bring gently to the boil. Stir in the cream, if you're using it, and serve with chopped parsley.  SLOW-ROASTED SHOULDER OF LAMB WITH GRILLED VEGETABLE AND WHITE BEAN SALAD and SMOKY AUBERGINE For a treat, try this recipe which is in Allegra McEvedy's book Economy Gastronomy. The smoky aubergine can be cooked a few days in advance. For the smoky aubergine, you will need: 2 aubergines 3 cloves garlic, peeled and chopped 2 tablespoons Greek yogurt Juice ½ lemon For the lamb, you will need: 1 large whole shoulder of lamb, on the bone (about 2kg) 4 cloves garlic, chopped A few sprigs rosemary 1 lamb, or chicken, stock cube, whisked in 300ml (10½fl oz) freshly boiled water 200ml (about 7fl oz) good red wine For the salad, you will need: Olive oil 2 red and 2 yellow peppers, deseeded and cut straight across in thick rings 1 red onion, peeled and sliced into thick rings 3 courgettes, cut diagonally into 1cm slices 2 flat mushrooms, cut in thick slices 1 x 400g (14oz) tin butter beans, drained 20 cherry tomatoes, halved A bunch basil leaves, torn into large pieces A handful rocket leaves 100g (3½oz) feta cheese, crumbled 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar Salt and freshly ground black pepper To make the smoky aubergine, puncture the skin of each aubergine all over with a skewer. Heat a large frying pan until piping hot, then reduce the heat right down. Don't add any oil, just place the aubergines in the pan and allow the heat to char the skins and cook the insides. Turn the aubergines every five minutes so that each side is well cooked and the skin is black and burned. This is the smoky bit. Cool the aubergines for a few minutes, then cut them open and scrape out the flesh, taking care to include all the flesh attached to the skin, which will have the smoky taste. Chop the flesh very finely to a puree and mix in the chopped garlic, the Greek yogurt and the lemon juice. This can be done in a food processor for a smoother texture. Cover and store in the fridge. Roasting the lamb is simple. Preheat the oven to 200°C, 400°F, Gas 6. While the oven is heating, take the lamb and pierce it about 5mm deep with the tip of a sharp knife and poke a sliver of garlic into the incision. Repeat this process until you have about 10-20 slivers of garlic dotted around the shoulder; do likewise with the rosemary. Place the lamb onto a roasting tray and into the hot oven: after about 10 minutes, when it is beginning to brown, reduce the temperature to 140°C, 275°F, Gas 1. Pour the lamb or chicken stock, whichever you're using, and the red wine, over the meat in the roasting tray. Every so often thereafter, scoop some of the stock over the roasting meat. Make the salad while the lamb is cooking. Heat a ribbed grill pan and wet it with a splash of olive oil. Working in batches, cook the sliced peppers, onion, courgettes and the mushrooms, until each is just cooked and coloured by the ribbed pan. Place all the cooked vegetables in a bowl and add the tinned butter beans, the halved cherry tomatoes, the torn basil, the rocket and the crumbled feta cheese. Then add a splash of both olive oil and balsamic vinegar. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper and put to one side. The lamb will need at least 2 hours in the oven, at which point it should be a deep brown colour and very well cooked. If the joint is larger it will take longer. Lift out and leave in a warm place for 20 minutes before carving. In the roasting tray you will find a rich stock. Pour this off into a small saucepan, skim off any excess fat and add 300ml (10½floz) of water, this should give about 600ml (21floz) of tasty gravy. When serving, pull off the meat in chunks rather than carving it.  TURKISH LAMB PILAU Lamb is a favourite meat in the Mediterranean lands because it cooks quickly and it uses less fuel to cook than other meats. Also, of course, sheep can feed happily in the rougher terrain there. This tasty Turkish recipe combines some fruit and nuts in the pilau mix. A handy meal in a dish. Serves 4. You will need: 2 tablespoons olive oil 25g (1oz) butter 1 large onion, chopped 1 clove garlic, chopped 450g (1lb) lamb fillet, from the leg, cut into small cubes ½ teaspoon ground cinnamon Salt and freshly ground black pepper 2 tablespoons tomato puree 1 lamb or chicken stock cube, whisked in 300ml (10½fl oz) freshly boiled water 3 tablespoon fresh parsley, chopped 450g (1lb) long-grain rice, rinsed 110g (4oz) ready-to-eat dried apricots, halved 75g (3oz) pistachio nuts, chopped Put the olive oil and the butter into a large, heavy-based saucepan. Add the chopped onion and garlic and cook until soft. Then add the lamb cubes, piece by piece, and cook until they're browned on all sides. Add the cinnamon, and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Cover and cook for 10 minutes. Add the tomato puree and just enough lamb or chicken stock , whichever you're using, to cover the meat. Stir in the chopped parsley and bring to the boil. Cover and simmer gently until the meat is tender. At this stage you need to add boiling water or some light chicken stock to the saucepan, so the total amount of liquid in it measures about 600ml (1pt). Then you add in the long-grain rice, the dried apricots and the chopped pistachio nuts. Cover with a lid, bring to the boil and simmer gently for about 20 minutes until the rice is cooked. Check during cooking in case you need to add a little more water or light stock. When the rice is cooked serve the pilau. It has a lovely consistency after its long, slow cooking, ideally done in the oven because that requires the least amount of attention. Sunday Independent 
