stocks
{  
    August 23 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/coming-to-a-stock-market-is-not-a-once-off-it-is-a-life-change-26371197.html }
INTERVIEW OF THE WEEK DEIRDRE SOMERS, DIRECTOR OF LISTING, IRISH STOCK EXCHANGE DEIRDRE Somers, a chartered accountant by training and experience, is no big fan of Sarbanes-Oxley, the 2002 US legislation introduced in the aftermath of the Enron and Worldcom accounting frauds to prevent a reoccurrence of the losses to creditors and investors. "SOX is a reaction to the Enron collapse. And a policy done for a specific reason is poor policy," she says. In her current role as director of listing on the Irish Stock Exchange and in her former role as head of listing policy, Ms Somers is no stranger to regulatory requirements. "Every trainee auditor from his first day at work knows that you cannot absolutely prevent fraud if there is intent to commit a fraud. Yet SOX brought in a whole lot of Draconian rules in an attempt to tackle very unquantifiable risks," she argues. "Where there is a need for legal certainty where there is no such certainty, you've got a problem," she adds. Draconian regulatory constraints may be perceived as the best method of closing gaps in the rules but ultimately increase the cost of compliance for directors and ultimately the shareholders - who pay in the end, Ms Somers argues. Stringent rules can place a stanglehold on day-to-day business and distracts senior management's attention from properly running a business. Ms Somers favours a corporate governance code which is based on best practice and believes that the importance of a respected reputation will ensure that intermediaries adhere to best practice. "Already there are indications that SOX may have gone too far. Wall Street and the Nasdaq are not attracting 'foreign' companies any more and the Securities Exchange Commission has signalled that it is reviewing SOX," Ms Somers says. For most Irish companies, a listing on Nasdaq is no longer an avenue for fund-raising, she argues. "The minimum market capitalisation for a company going on the main US market is probably $1bn, with Nasdaq requiring a minimum of $500m," Ms Somers says. "In European markets the main list requires a minimum market cap of ?200m." Ms Somers' main interest over the past 17 months has been the performance of IEX (the Irish Enterprise Exchange), which was launched on April 12, 2005 for small to mid-sized companies seeking a public market quotation. The regulatory regime on IEX is similar to that for the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) operated by the London Stock Exchange and is intended to suit smaller companies. Indeed, it has been the Irish Stock Exchange's strategy to encourage companies seeking a listing on IEX to go for a dual listing with AIM. "Essentially it's the same document but with the added advantage of Dublin stockbrokers trading in your stock and Dublin analysts covering your business," Ms Somers says. In its guide to an IEX listing, the Stock Exchange points out that boosting the company's profile is as important as fund-raising for expansion and development. "The downside of listing on AIM is that there are now 2,000 companies listed there and each day a few more enter. It's difficult for an Irish company to make a mark. "On IEX, you are a big fish in a smaller pond. The brokers will get behind you, the analysts cover you - far more than would be the case in London - and the broadsheet media include your company as part of regular coverage," Ms Somers says. To date, there are 19 companies listed on IEX (and on AIM), eight of which had already been listed in Dublin either on the Developing Companies Market or as exploration stocks on ESM. Most of the remaining eleven have strong AIM connections. Only a handful (Abbey, Calyx, Blackrock and Petroceltic) have a market cap of ?200m or more. "Coming to a stock market is not just a once-off event, it is a life change. Companies need to adjust to it and to deal with shareholders, brokers and intermediaries," Ms Somers points out. For each of the 19 which have joined, at least as many have considered listing on IEX but have gone for a trade sale or some other funding route. "I don't blame them (the companies that didn't list). It is a factor of the sophistication of the Dublin financial markets that a number of such options exist - trade sale, private equity or public listing," she says. In the long run, Ms Somers does not want to see many medium-sized Irish companies taken over by large international groups. "From a macro-economic view it is better for the Irish economy that these businesses go through their growth phases as Irish-owned companies keeping their revenues within Ireland," she says. Ms Somers points to the Irish Stock Exchange's best listing success, Kerry Group, which started way back on the Developing Companies Market and is now capitalised at over ?3bn. "We need to nurture the next Kerry," she says. 
