stocks
{  
    October 12 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/an-open-letter-to-the-taoiseach-concerning-our-future-26483846.html }
DEAR Taoiseach, congratulations on your brave and decisive action guaranteeing the deposits and borrowings of Irish banks. Today, I am asking you to make another radical move. Suspend the Irish Stock Exchange for a stated period of time. When you make that announcement, I urge you to do two things. First, immediately visit as many EU prime ministers as possible to convince them to follow your lead and suspend their stock exchanges. Second, having raised sufficient funds in advance of the suspension of the Irish exchange, re-capitalise Irish banks, taking as generous a shareholding as possible in each of them that needs our taxpayers' money. Hourly this global banking crisis is described as unprecedented. If we are to work our way out of it, then we have to take unprecedented actions. What is the function of a stock market? It is to raise capital, and to allow people sell or buy stocks at a publicly quoted market value. But there is not enough tradable capital out there in the market -- no liquidity. And the constant see-sawing of stocks is not setting any true market value. The stock markets are defunct but, even worse, are now only serving two negative purposes -- eroding confidence and helping the vultures and short sellers make money from the misery. The New York, London, and European exchanges are not going to stabilise in the near future. As these exchanges oscillate wildly, and that wave spreads, soon the Asian markets will also be contaminated. The flight of what little capital there is to the safe haven of Asia, only to be taken out again in 24 hours and brought back to other markets, will also cause a rollercoaster effect on the Asian exchanges. As the oscillation grows higher and deeper, and even more global, banks will crumble. Now to the guy on the bus in the TV ad who doesn't know what a tracker mortgage is -- perhaps he thinks there is no harm is seeing the fat cats and the banks going under. But the point is that we all now live in a cashless society, and technology interconnects all these banks -- just like all of us in society are connected via the internet. In a cashless society, the world lives on credit, which is trust. But the world's banks have extended more credit than there is money in the system, because they realised too late that the Americans were doling out ninja mortgages (that's giving money to people who have no income or no jobs). British and European banks became involved by buying some of that toxic debt. Irish banks, it should be pointed out, didn't. Taoiseach, this is a big call but you are in a unique position. You are the leader of the only rich European country left with all its banks still standing. Very cleverly, you are the only leader who hasn't had to (as yet) put real money on the table. Ireland, despite its wealth, is a relatively small country with a tiny stock exchange. The unilateral move of suspending the Irish Stock Exchange with due notice, so those who wish to cash out can do so, has less ramifications than the move you made unilaterally guaranteeing Irish banks. And what was the initial reaction then? They scoffed, but very quickly came around to your way of thinking. History will record that the Irish Government's initiative was the spark that made Europe sit up and do something about re-capitalising the banks. But trying to capitalise banks by supporting shares on the wildly oscillating stock exchanges is madness. If the HSE can close down hospital wards for November and December each year, then surely you can suspend the stock exchange? The hospital wards are undoubtedly missed; in these circumstances the stock exchange won't be. The other big issue is capitalising the Irish banks. I fear, Taoiseach, you have to get your head around putting every man, woman and child in the state into debt up to the tune of €10,000 per person. It is going to take up to possibly €25bn of tax payers' money to re-capitalise the banks -- that's five grand for every citizen. You are going to need maybe another five grand of borrowings per person to see us through the next few years of budget deficits, as you can't just turn off the Government spending tap entirely or you will cause a deeper recession. While Minister Lenihan is handling the Budget, Taoiseach, you have to take the lead in getting liquidity back into banks, and building business and consumer confidence. You dislike those who suffer premature articulation -- like when Michael McDowell suggested dropping Stamp Duty -- and you don't like "knee-jerk" reactions. So I understand your caution. But sometimes the easiest decisions are those where you don't have a choice. And Taoiseach, you don't have a choice now. You must do it. Your actual only decision is when. Go n-eiri leat agus bi croga. 
