stocks
{ Brenda Costigan 
    January 18 2009 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-drink/soupsational-comfort-26507291.html }
In the third instalment of her January series on comfort food, Brenda Costigan gives us the lowdown on wholesome soups. Packed with healthy vegetables and bursting with flavour, they'll fill you up, but they won't fill you out. The cold days of winter are no time for those watching their weight to be nibbling low-calorie salads. Big, steaming bowls of soup, full of low-calorie vegetables, will warm the cockles of your heart without padding your hips or lining your arteries. You can't beat home-made soup for goodness and flavour, and the range and variety of recipes available nowadays is so exciting. A good stock is important for most soups. But since the days of the stockpot simmering away at the side of the range have disappeared with the notion that women should be tied to the cooker, modern, good-quality stock cubes make a successful stock. Soups actually benefit from being made a little in advance and then reheated, which allows the flavours to mingle. Cover any leftovers and store in the fridge for a couple of days or, better still, freeze in single portions, for a healthy snack in a hurry.  RIBOLLITA This tasty soup is rather like a minestrone, but includes beans instead of pasta. It is very hearty and nutritious. Traditionally, a slice of bread and a serving of cooked spinach were put into the soup bowl first, before the soup was ladled in. I prefer to mix some spinach into the soup itself and serve the bread separately. Serves 4-6. You will need: 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion, chopped 2--4 cloves of garlic, chopped 2 carrots, diced 2 sticks celery, thinly sliced 1 large parsnip, peeled and diced, (discarding the hard core from the centre) 1 fennel bulb, trimmed and chopped (optional) Salt and freshly ground black pepper 900ml (1½pt) chicken or vegetable stock 1 teaspoon French mustard 1 x 400g (14oz) tin of haricot or borlotti beans, drained 110-175g (4-6oz) fresh or frozen spinach 175g (6oz) thinly chopped rashers, fried until golden (optional) Chopped fresh parsley or chives Note: Thaw the spinach first, if it comes from the freezer. If using fresh spinach, wash, shred finely and add directly into the soup. It will lose volume when heated. Heat the oil in a large, heavy saucepan. Fry the onion and garlic to soften for a minute or two, then add in the carrots, celery, parsnip and the fennel, if using. Season with salt and pepper. Pour in the stock and add the mustard. Bring to the boil and simmer gently with the lid on for about 20 minutes, until the vegetables are tender. Then add the beans, spinach and the fried rashers, if using, and bring to the boil again. Simmer to heat through. Garnish with chopped fresh parsley or chives.  PROVENCAL FISH SOUP Inspired by Michael Barry, the crafty cook of BBC 2's Food and Drink, this is a handy recipe to try. You can vary the kinds of fish that you use, but do use a reasonable mixture of types to provide richness of flavour. Serves 4-5. You will need: 750g (1½lb) mixed fish, including at least three kinds -- cod, red mullet, monkfish and mackerel are all good choices 1.2 litres (2 pints) water 1 fish stock cube Salt and freshly ground black pepper 4 tablespoons olive oil 225g (8oz) onions, chopped 2 cloves of garlic, chopped 1 x 400g (14oz) tin chopped tomatoes 1 bay leaf 50g (2oz) long grain rice 450g (1lb) mussels in the shell, well cleaned in lots of changes of cold water (see note) 175g (6oz) vacuum-packed crab meat, ready to eat (optional) Chopped fresh parsley Note: Make sure the mussels are alive. This means they should be tightly closed when bought. Discard any open mussels that do not close when tapped sharply; any closed ones that float on the top of the water when washing them; or any with broken shells. Scrub well and remove the beard (the stringy bits attached to the shell). Put all the fish, complete with the heads and skin, into a saucepan, add the water and crumble in the stock cube. Season with salt and pepper. Bring to the boil and simmer for 10 minutes. Strain through a colander, saving the tasty liquid. Lift out the nice pieces of fish and cut into small pieces, discarding the skin and bones. Keep to one side, and keep warm. Heat the oil in the rinsed saucepan, then fry the onion and garlic until tender. Add the tomatoes, the bay leaf, the rice and the liquid from the fish. Cover the saucepan and simmer for about 15 minutes, then add the mussels and simmer in the piping hot soup for five minutes. Add the cooked pieces of fish and the crab meat, if using. Bring almost to the boil and heat through. Season. Serve scattered with the parsley and garnished with the rouille, see below. Rouille 2 slices bread, crusts removed A little milk 4 cloves garlic, crushed A few drops of Tabasco sauce Salt and pepper 6 tablespoons olive oil Soak the bread in the milk for 10 minutes, then squeeze dry, discarding the milk. Add the garlic and Tabasco and blend through the mixture, then season. Beat in the olive oil a little at a time, as if making mayonnaise, until all is blended. Note: There is a cheat's version, in which you add a few drops of Tabasco sauce to four tablespoons of mayonnaise, shop bought or home-made, and stir in 1--2 cloves of crushed garlic.  POTATO AND ANCHOVY SOUP Potatoes are always comforting. On their own, they're somewhat bland, so the strong flavour of the added anchovies gives a delightfully subtle, salty flavour to the soup. If you prefer, use chorizo, the spicy Spanish sausage. Spinach is added to provide extra nutrition and good colour. Serves 5-6. You will need: 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 onion, finely chopped 1 clove garlic, chopped 175--225g (6-8oz) chorizo, sliced (if using) 700g (1½lb) potatoes, peeled and diced. Use Roosters, if possible, because they're floury but don't turn into mush 1.1 litres (2 pints) stock 1 fresh bay leaf 2-3 thin sprigs of thyme Salt and freshly ground black pepper 1 x 50g tin of anchovy fillets, drained 110g (4oz) frozen chopped spinach (see note) To serve, you will need: Natural Greek yogurt or creme fraiche (optional) Crusty bread Note: The chunk of thawed-out spinach can be added to the soup if you wish. If using fresh spinach, wash, shred finely and add directly into soup. It will lose volume when heated. Put the olive oil into a heavy-based saucepan and gently fry the onion and garlic for a few minutes to soften without browning. If using the chorizo, add it at this stage and cook gently with the lid on for a minute or two, to release the flavour and the oils. Do not allow to brown. Add in the potatoes and stir through the mixture. Add the stock, the bay leaf, thyme and the salt and pepper. Bring to the boil, cover with a lid and simmer gently until the potatoes are tender, about 30 minutes. If you have chosen to use anchovies, chop them small and add to the soup at this stage. Bring to the boil, stirring, and the anchovies will dissolve. Lift out the bay leaf and the thyme stalks. Add the spinach, if using, and heat through. Serve with crusty bread, and a spoonful of yogurt or creme fraiche, if using, on top of each bowl of soup.  BUTTERNUT SQUASH SOUP The vibrant orange colour of the butternut squash makes a wonderful soup. A little freshly grated root ginger gives a nice twist. Butternut squash will keep for weeks in a vegetable rack, providing it is kept dry and cool. This rich soup serves 4 as a main lunch dish, or about 6 as a starter. You will need: 1 butternut squash (the flesh should weigh about 450g/1lb) 1 medium onion 1 potato 1 medium carrot 1 stick of celery 50g (2oz) butter 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 clove garlic, optional 1-2 teaspoons of grated fresh root ginger Salt and freshly ground black pepper 1 litre (1¾ pints) vegetable stock To serve, you will need: Creme fraiche or fromage frais Chopped fresh chives Garlic croutons Using a sharp knife, peel and halve the butternut squash, scoop out the seeds and the fibre-like stuff around them and discard. Dice the squash in cubes about 1cm/½in size). Peel and dice the medium onion, the potato, carrot and the stick of celery. Dice the carrots just a little smaller than the other vegetables as otherwise they take longer to cook. Melt the butter in a heavy-based saucepan with the olive oil, and gently cook the onion and the garlic, if using, until soft. Then add the squash, potato carrot and the celery and stir over the gentle heat until they, too, are well coated in the butter. Add the grated ginger, salt and pepper and the stock. Bring to the boil and cover the saucepan with a lid and simmer gently for about 20-30 minutes until the vegetables are tender. Serve with spoonfuls of creme fraiche or fromage frais on top of each serving and sprinkle with chopped chives. Serve with the crunchy garlic croutons, on top or on the side. 
