stocks
{ Louise McBride 
    October 03 2014 07:29 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/how-to-invest-in-the-worlds-10-best-performing-funds-30636691.html }
With high risk comes high reward - or woeful losses. Over the last year, it was some of the investors who were prepared to take the highest risks who came up trumps.  The Sunday Independent has teamed up with the international stock market analyst Morningstar and stockbrokers Davy to track down 10 of the best-performing investment funds over the last year. The funds that came out tops were those which invested in interest rate swaps - where you bet on interest rate movements. Swaps are risky investments, on which some people have lost millions - but on which others have made their fortunes. The Taj Mahal appears to have worked its magic for investors too - funds invested in Indian shares have been some of the biggest winners. So too have funds which invested in the biotech sector. So what are the top 10? DB Platinum Institutional Fixed Income Up 71pc This fixed-income fund, which is managed by the Luxembourg-based fund managers DB Platinum Advisors, was the best-performing fund over the last year, up 71pc. This is a high-risk fund, as it invests in derivatives, such as interest rate swaps. Some brokers, such as Davy, don't recommend it. BNP Paribas LDI Solution Up 60pc This is a fixed-income fund which invests in government bonds, interest rate swaps, and money market instruments and funds. At 60pc growth, it has made strong gains over the last year. The fund is managed by BNP Paribas Investment Partners, another fund manager based in Luxembourg. Like the DB Platinum fund, this is a niche fund which is best suited to risk-takers. Franklin India Focus Up 60pc Bullish Indian stocks have boosted the fortunes of funds which have invested in such equities, including the Franklin India Focus fund. This fund, which is managed by Franklin Templeton, jumped about 60pc over the last year. "Indian equities have done fantastically over the last year," said James Costello, portfolio manager with Davy. India's main stock index is now outperforming the world's biggest stock markets - thanks to continuing impressive economic growth throughout the country. Strong earnings and profits reported by key Indian companies have also strengthened Indian equities. However, there is no guarantee that this rally will continue. Fidelity India Focus Up 57pc This fund, which also invests in Indian equities and is managed by Fidelity, has done well, making a return of about 57pc over the last year. Schroder Frontier Markets: Up 50.5pc The Schroder Frontier Markets fund, managed by international fund managers Schroders, largely invests in equities from the Middle East and Africa - and certain Asian countries. Stock markets in the Middle East had a good run in 2013, when Dubai's equities were amongst the best performers in the world. Fortunes have been mixed since. Dubai shares plunged during the summer, for example, when the Dubai stock exchange crashed. Dubai's stock market has rebounded since then, however - and stocks in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait and Abu Dhabi have also gained ground. The Middle East clearly has its share of instability. However, it also has some of the wealthiest countries in the world, such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the UAE and Qatar - all four of which the Schroder fund has invested heavily in. Danske Invest Bioteknologi Up 50pc Biotech stocks, which include companies which specialise in pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, have had their ups and downs over the last year - but some have made significant gains. Certain biotech companies have seen their share price triple since the start of this year. So it's no surprise that funds which have invested wisely in biotechnology have also performed strongly over the last year. The Danske Invest Bioteknologi fund, which jumped by 50pc, is one such fund. It is managed by Danske Invest, which is part of the Danish Danske Bank Group. SEB Concept Biotechnology Up 49pc Snapping at the heels of Danske Bioteknologi fund is the SEB Concept Biotechnology, managed by Swedish financial group SEB. This fund largely invests in the US biotechnology sector. It climbed 49pc over the last year and has also had a strong performance over the last five years. DWS India Up 49pc The DWS India fund, which is managed by DWS Investments - part of the Deutsche Bank group, invests largely in Indian shares. So it too has been buoyed by the Indian stock rally. It gained 49pc over the last year. Pyn Elite A Up 45pc The Chinese stock market came back to life recently - and this has been good news for the Pyn Elite A fund, which largely invests in Chinese and Vietnamese shares. "A notable feature of the last three months was the bounce back in emerging markets - particularly China - where valuations had fallen significantly below those in developed country equity markets," said Davy in its latest Market Watch bulletin. This one is managed by Finland's Pyn Fund Management, and is up 45pc over the last year. DekaLux BioTech CF Up 39pc Managed by Deka International, this fund largely invests in the US biotechnology sector. It has performed strongly over the last five years - and gained 39pc over the last year. Next step Hell bent on investing in any of the funds above but not sure how you'd do so? Contact your Irish stockbroker first, as you may be able to invest through them. "You'd be able to invest in the majority of the big name funds - such as Deutsche Bank, Franklin Templeton and Fidelity - through the Davy Select investment platform," said Costello. Another useful investment platform is Pershing International, which is offered by Conexim, according to Vincent Digby, managing director of the financial advisers Impartial. You may also be able to invest in some of these funds through a life assurance company. You can invest in Fidelity's India Focus fund through Irish Life, for example. Approach an international investment firm, such as Hargreaves Lansdown in Britain, if you find it hard to invest in a particular fund through an Irish broker or life assurer. You can go directly to the fund manager itself if all else fails - though this could work out more expensive than investing in a fund through a broker. You usually need big money - often €10,000 at least - to approach a fund manager directly. No matter how fab the fund, watch out for costly charges Keep your eyes peeled for charges when deciding on an investment fund - as these charges will eat into any money you make.  Remember too that you will be hit with investment charges even if your fund loses money - so choose wisely. The main charges on investment funds include annual management fees (charged for the management of money in your fund), entry fees (charged each time you save money into your investment), and exit fees (which kick in when you cash in your investment). Avoid funds which charge an annual fund management fee of more than 1.5pc - unless the performance of that fund justifies the extra fee. The average annual management charge is between 1 and 1.5pc. Also be wary of performance fees - charged if your fund does well. Sunday Indo Business 
