stocks
{  
    March 21 2012 09:56 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/ifa-calls-for-flexibility-on-commonages-stocking-27418063.html }
WITH restrictions on stocking levels on commonages due to be relaxed by the Department of Agriculture, the IFA is looking for a degree of flexibility in how the new rules are put into effect. The new Commonage Framework Plan, which is expected to be in place some time next year, will set down specific stocking levels on 7,000 commonages throughout the country. Kerry IFA Hill Committee Chairman Sean O'donoghue has called for flexibility in the review and implementation of the plan. A particular concern is that farmers who are allowed to increase stock numbers must be given enough time to meet the minimum stocking level. Mr O'donoghue also said the minimum level must be set at a practical standard and that the maximum stocking level should be sufficiently high to allow farmers, who have the capacity, to attain these levels to increase sheep numbers. The Kerry IFA Hill Chairman said farmers in commonage areas have been restricted with draconian rules for the past 10 years through the framework plans. Now that restrictions are being lifted it is important, in the new stocking plan, that sufficient timescale was put in place and cattle were reintroduced to the hills. It is intended that the new stocking levels will apply at LPIS level, which in most cases will be the townland. In parallel with the new stocking regime, Mr O'donoghue is calling for a meaningful agri-environment measure for upland areas in the CAP post 2013. "A good start would be for the Minister for Agriculture, Simon Coveney, to reopen an AEOS 3 scheme immediately with a maximum payment of €5,000 and make a payment rate for Natura and Commonage areas of €150/ha," Mr O'donoghue said. A further meeting with both Departments is planned in early April. He called for a more practical approach to the implementation of the new stocking regime to be put on the table by the NPWS and the Department of Agriculture in advance of the IFA'S next meeting on the matter with the National Parks & Wildlife Service and the Department of Agriculture. 
