stocks
{ Joe  Brennan 
    June 26 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/companies-buy-back-at-over-the-odds-26457411.html }
Irish public-quoted companies have spent over €1.3bn buying back their own stock over the past 14 months -- all at average prices well above where they are currently trading, according to data compiled by Merrion Landsbanki for the Irish Independent. Over 40pc, or €52bn, has been wiped off the value of the Irish market since Kerry Group moved in April last year to kick off a flurry of share buybacks by some of the country's largest companies. The data shows that Ryanair, which has long refused to pay investors dividends, stumped up €332.7m of its excess cash on buybacks over the past year. It has bought its shares at an average price of €4.66 or 52pc above where the stock closed yesterday, at €3.06. The low-cost carrier has authorisation from shareholders to repurchase a further €170m of stock this year. CRH CRH has spent €332.2m purchasing stock since the building materials giant revealed in January it would buy back up to 5pc of its stock. It is currently half-way through the programme, having bought at an average of 27.5pc above where its stock is now changing hands. Kerry has forked out €231.8m, according to Merrion, at an average of €21.38 a share, or 15.5pc higher than yesterday evening's close. Cider manufacturer C&C's activity in the market appears to have been even less successful. It has bought €139.9m of its own shares at an average of €7.92 each, some 95pc higher than the current price. "It is easier for a company to commit to repurchase some of its stock to use spare cash than to change its dividend policy," said one Dublin-based fund manager. "But there is little evidence that the buyback programmes ongoing in the market have boosted shareholder value." By lowering the number of shares in circulation, a company automatically boosts its earnings per share (EPS) and return on capital, though it does nothing to improve underlying profits. Independent News & Media, the publisher of this newspaper, mopped up €138.3m of its own stock in the second half of last year. However, the repurchased shares were used to minimise the dilutive impact on shareholdings caused by the maturity, last November, of convertible shares which had been issued to New Zealand investors. Grafton Elsewhere in the market, Grafton has spent €72.8m on its own stock, while Paddy Power has bought back €54.2m worth. Kingspan has repurchased €15.1m of stock and Fyffes €7m. Buybacks can give also give the signal that companies have run out of ideas to expand, according to experts. A year ago, companies were bemoaning the fact that they were being outbid at auctions by private equity houses. "With private equity now effectively out of the picture (as a result of credit market turmoil), there is a view that companies should be back out there using their money to grow by acquisition," said Kevin McConnell, head of equity research at Bloxham Stockbrokers. "However, maybe companies are better off buying stock in companies they know very well -- their own -- rather than using it to acquire other firms, particularly given the uncertain economic conditions being faced." 
