stocks
{ Michael Dowling 
    August 12 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/taking-stock-its-all-about-facing-risks-26415285.html }
GLAMOUROUS stocks are those stocks with exciting stories to tell and great growth potential. In the Irish context, Ryanair would be the prime example of a glamour stock. It is taking on Europe with its cheap and brash business model, has a well-known, almost iconic, boss, and is growing its revenue and profits in giant leaps every year. Value stocks are sometimes unfairly described as boring. These are the stocks with steady earnings and high dividends. The two big banks would fall into this category. One way of distinguishing between glamour and value stocks is by looking at their price-earnings ratios (P/E ratio). This is calculated by dividing the share price by the Earnings Per Share (EPS). EPS is the company's profits divided by the number of outstanding shares issued in the company. Thus, the P/E ratio measures the number of years it will take the company to make enough profit to fully cover the current value of the company. If a stock is trading at a higher-than-average P/E ratio, then it is expected to grow profits at a higher rate in the future (to justify its current high rating). A low P/E stock is expected to have steady, or even falling, profits in the future. This article looks at the performance of high versus low P/E stocks in the Irish market. It looks at performance for Irish stocks over 10 and five years. The data used runs from 1995 to 2005, because of limitations in the availability of fully up-to-date data. For all companies with a reported P/E ratio, we divide them into two groups. Group one contains the half of stocks trading on the lowest P/E on the first day of the period (either 10 years or five years). The second group contains the half of stocks trading on the highest P/E. There is no reason to expect one group to have a better share price growth compared to the other. There is no major risk difference between the groups, and future differences in earnings growth are expected to be already priced in current share prices. Looking first at the 10-year period performance. The average P/E for the low group is 12, and for the high P/E group is 16. What we find is that ?100 invested in the low growth group would be worth ?544 after 10 years, while the same amount invested in the high growth group would be worth ?694. Thus, the high P/E group outperformed the low P/E group, indicating that investors were a bit too conservative in valuing the high growth potential of these companies. This is interesting. Investors expected high growth from these stocks, but under-estimated how high the growth would be. The high growth group includes the likes of Grafton, IAWS, and Kingspan. These are three companies that used the 10-year period to make an international name for their innovative business models, and, as a result, returned phenomenal performance. The low P/E group includes the cornerstones of the Irish economy, namely AIB and BoI. They performed well, but not on the scale of the star performers in the high growth group. The major conclusion we can draw from this, is that the average investor in Irish stocks 10 years ago was too conservative in estimating the growth potential of high growth companies. We now compare the situation from 10 years ago to five years ago. We run the same analysis again, and this time we find that ?100 invested in the high P/E group five years ago would have returned ?145. The low P/E group would have returned ?181 for ?100 invested. Thus, there has been a turnaround in performance. Over this period, it was the low growth companies that outperformed. An over-optimistic value appears to have been placed on high growth companies. Maybe this means that investors in Irish stocks had become too fond of risk by the beginning of this period. This tale of two Irelands; the conservative doubting Ireland of 10 years ago, and the over-optimistic Ireland of five years ago makes for useful investment advice. It seems that low growth stocks will perform best if bought at a time when investors are optimistic. Conversely, high growth stocks will perform best if bought at a time when investors are pessimistic, and feeling adverse to risk. Psychology, it appears, shows itself to be as important as numbers, in the world of stock market investing. 
