stocks
{  
    May 18 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/anglers-amazed-by-lough-derg-trout-catches-27452974.html }
by Peter Gleeson Anglers on Lough Derg have been amazed by a significant improvement in the quality of trout fising on the lake in this, the traditional peak of the trout angling season. Catches of trout are well up on the dismal results recorded over the past decade or so, confounding all the experts. The lake had been written off as devoid of trout by anglers who complained that pollution and the failure to rehabilitate spawning grounds had ruined the once renowned game fishery. But as the Mayfly season gets into full flight, the smiles are back on the faces of the fishermen because of the notable improvement in fishing in recent weeks. But Lough Derg Anglers Association has expressed concern that this latest improvement may encourage unscrupulous anglers to wipe out the precious emergence of new stock which, it says, has huge potential to boost tourism in the area. Association Chairman, Joe O’ Donoghue this week warned that officers of the Shannon Regional Fisheries Board were patrolling the lake and the full rigours of the law would be applied to anyone caught with fish under the legal limit. Two years ago the board increased the legal limit from ten to twelve inches to protect what it perceived as declining stocks of trout in the lake. While the latest revival has caused great satisfaction with the local angling fraternity, suspicions have been raised about the apparent reasons for the latest upsurge in catches. “There appears to be an awful lot of small fish being caught,” said Mr O’ Donoghue. “There are trout being caught in variouls areas like Youghal, Luska, the Urra shore and Portumna. Trout were not being caught in these areas over the last number of years.” Mr O’ Donoghue added: “The latest increase in catches is a phenomenon I can’t explain. My inquiries to the ESB and the fishery board lead me to believe that no re-stocking has been carried out.” He said one possible reason for the welcome trend was the opening a few years ago of a new fish hatchery in Scariff, operated by the Mountshannon and Scariff angling clubs. The hatchery, which has been funded by clubs right around the lake, has been involved in programmes aimed at boosting fish stocks in the lake since its inception. Some anglers who didn’t wish to be named are suspicious that the trout are being stocked, an option they say will do nothing to improve the indiginous and genetically unique stock of trout species which has been in the lake since the turn of the Ice Age. Their suspicions have arisen following a spate of bad publicity which the waterway has received in recent years over its declining stocks and the fact that visiting anglers are abandoning the lake to fish instead on the more bountiful western lakes, resulting in a drop in tourism revenue for areas like North Tipperary. “I can’t find any evidence at this point in time that the lake is being secretly stocked,” said Mr O’ Donogue. “I’m not an expert but there is nothing that tells me the fish now being caught are totally stocked trout, apart from the fact the traditional Lough Derg trout has more of a yellow belly compared to the silver belly found on many of the fish being caught now.” He added: “What is striking, and what every angler is asking, is why the trout are being caught in particular locations and why the are predominantly in the three quarters of a pound to one pound weight range. The answer to that question is bothering all anglers both on the Tipperary and Clare sides of the lake.” “We are delighted to see the trout stock improving but we hope it is a natural phenomenon rather than someone bucketing in lorry loads of stocked trout into the lake.” Mr O’ Donoghue said the only way to restore trout numbers to their former level would be to rehabilitate spawning grounds which have been damaged by pollution and dredging. 
