stocks
{ Louise McBride 
    November 29 2015 12:01 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/article34242821.ece }
It is only a matter of weeks before interest rate hikes could become a reality in the United States. The US central bank, the Federal Reserve, is giving some of its strongest signals yet that it is likely to raise its rate next month.  If that happens, it will be the first rise in almost 10 years so the impact on stock markets - and any shares you own - could be huge. Having said that, investment experts believe the rate-rising cycle (if it happens) will be very different to previous ones. "It has already been telegraphed that it's very likely to be very slow in nature and there is already some chatter that the Fed wants to lift now so it can be in a position to lower again - if needs be," said Ben Jerman, senior investment analyst with the Dublin investment firm, Logic Investments. The Fed may well decide to leave rates unchanged, of course. But which shares are worth having if US interest rates go up? MetLife and Prudential The shares of the US life assurers, MetLife and Prudential Life, should do well if rates move up, according to Aidan Donnelly, senior equity strategist with Davy. "Life insurance companies will do well in that environment - largely because so much of their asset base is in bonds," said Mr Donnelly. "So they'll be reinvesting their money at higher rates each time the interest rate goes up - and that will benefit them." JP Morgan, Bank of America, Wells Fargo "Banks tend to benefit from rate hikes - particularly the larger money centres, such as JP Morgan," said Mr Donnelly. "They do well because they can lag and expand their interest margin. So if interest rates go up, they can put up the rates on loans straight away - but they can lag the increase in deposit rates." Northern Trust, State Street, Bank of New York Mellon US trust banks, such as Northern Trust, State Street and Bank of New York Mellon, are others tipped to do well by Mr Donnelly. "A lot of these would have many stock market funds," said Mr Donnelly. "With interest rates so low in recent years, they've had to waive some of the fund management fees on these funds [because the investment return wasn't high enough to justify such fees]. As interest rates start to move up, these banks won't have to waive fees as much." Charles Schwab "All the financials - that is banks, asset managers and brokers - do better in a rising interest rate environment," said Mr Jerman. "We prefer the asset management sector as it has far less regulatory and balance sheet risk." Mr Jerman believes the shares of US asset manager, Charles Schwab, are worth having for this reason. Charles Schwab, which provides wealth management, securities brokerage, banking and financial advisory services, has become a very significant asset management firm with €2.4 trillion of client assets, according to Logic. "As is often the case, the market does not wait for rates to rise - they are already anticipating it and as such Charles Schwab has performed well," said Mr Jerman. "With a market cap of just under €38bn (US$40bn), Charles Schwab is the largest player in the e-broker sector - yet its revenue is more defensive than peers." Whirlpool and Caterpillar "All the cyclical stocks, such as those of the durable goods producer Whirlpool, and heavy equipment makers such as Caterpillar (CAT US) get a headwind in a rising rate environment," added Mr Jerman. Intel and UPS Other cyclical stocks that could do well include software shares, such as Intel, and shares linked to discretionary consumer spending, such as those of the courier company UPS. Cyclical stocks, however, will do well only if stock markets feel that any decision by the Fed to increase interest rates is down to the economy doing well, according to Mr Donnelly. "The question is: Will the markets take the view that rates are going up because the economy is doing well, or will the view be that it's just a one-off increase because the Fed feels compelled to do it," said Mr Donnelly. If stock markets take the latter view, cyclical shares may not do so well. Shares that could disappoint Defensive stocks - which usually provide a stable return for investors regardless of the state of the overall stock market - are unlikely to do as well as financial stocks if interest rates rise. Such stocks include those of utility, Telco, and consumer staple companies, such as Duke Energy, AT&T, Proctor & Gamble and Coca-Cola. Emerging market equities as well as the shares of companies in or heavily exposed to commodity-producing nations, such as Norway, Brazil, Russia and Australia, could perform badly if rates go up. This is because a lot of money from the markets of commodity-producing nations gets pulled back into the US when rates rise. Sunday Indo Business 
