stocks
{ Bernard  Smith 
    May 26 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/how-to-survive-spring-deluge-26539011.html }
Emergency measures are required on many farms to cope with the effect of the weather. Teagasc is advising farmers how to deal with the problems. Many farms have coped up to now, but there are several issues contributing to the serious escalation in the current problems. Ground conditions have continued to deteriorate, resulting in serious damage to fields and poor use of available grass. Damaged fields are slower to dry out and grass growth has much slower recovery. Soil temperatures are currently two to three degrees below normal for May and recorded growth rates are way below expected for this time of year. Growth rates on the cattle grazing units at Grange over the past week were running from 30 to 40kg DM/ha/day, which was less than 50pc of normal for this time of year. Worsening ground conditions and poor re-growths have necessitated the re-housing of autumn calvers, yearling bulls and bulling heifers at Grange. Reports of yellowing of grass in non-waterlogged fields suggest nitrogen deficiency, on foot of leaching, due to the higher than normal rainfall. Delayed closing of silage fields and/or grazing of them is a concern for next winter, given that silage stocks on most farms have already been used. The priority at farm level is to take immediate action that will minimise costs in the medium term and not put the farm at risk later in the year and next winter. Priority for grass should be given to spring calving cows to keep milk yield up. Group sizes may need to be reduced to prevent excessive poaching.  Option On/off grazing may be an option where there is a suitable stand off area for stock up to 18 hours a day. Supplementary feed may be required in addition to grass allocation. In extreme cases, cows may need to be totally removed from the grazing area until ground conditions improve and this will mean feeding roughage or roughage plus meals. Autumn calving farms have the option of weaning calves and housing cows. Farmers in the suckler welfare scheme must have calves on meal for at least four weeks before weaning. Empty cows could be fed meals and roughage to achieve slaughter if they are in good condition. Lighter stock can remain on grass if ground conditions permit, but in extreme cases they may also need to be housed. When housing animals, they should be dry and given at least 50pc more shed space than normal. Housing wet animals at high stocking rates increases the risk of pneumonia. Silage crops are gone too strong for grazing in may cases. Poor underfoot conditions will prevent grazing of silage swards in many situations. On farms with no silage left at this stage, it is critical not to undermine next winter's fodder supplies by attempting to graze silage swards now where usage is going to be poor. Zero grazing, if possible, will at least ensure good use of available grass without causing damage to silage fields. Nitrogen application to grazing areas should be a priority as soon as ground and weather conditions permit. Concentrates and minimum roughage may be the only option for indoor feeding where stock must be housed. Having stock housed will allow grass covers to improve and will ensure grass is available when ground conditions allow stock to be turned out. Selling some stock is not an attractive option in most cases, as stock will not look or weigh their best, and prices will be under pressure with so many farmers in difficulty. Farmers who have been forced to re-house stock, but who have no silage/hay available, should consult their local Teagasc adviser on suitable feed choices. Where there is adequate silage, it can be fed to appetite for a short period without supplementary feeding. Limited silage stocks should be stretched to provide minimum roughage for housed cattle and supplemented with meal. In the short term, energy is the main requirement. Rolled barley, citrus pulp and soya hulls are the best value in energy feeds at present. Prices for barley bought in bulk range from €145 to €160/t and for citrus pulp and soya hulls from €120 to €145/t. Minimum roughage can be made up of hay, silage or straw. Where cattle are fed concentrates as a supplement to minimum roughage, between 0.8pc and 1pc of body weight as roughage dry matter must be fed along with the meal supplement. For example, roughage should make up 35-50pc of the daily feed intake. If silage, hay or straw is not available, on/off grazing for four to five hours a day might be possible. Cattle will get up to 90pc of daily intake in that time because they will be hungry going out, concentrate on grazing and do less damage. On out-farms with no housing, it might be possible to use a suitable stand-off to hold the cattle, while allowing them to graze paddocks for four to five hours a day. 
