stocks
{  
    September 18 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/banking-26318493.html }
The position of marts within the Irish livestock production sector has become even more important over the past few years, as the production of weanlings becomes more and more dominated by part-time farmers. In the past, most livestock farmers were full time operators who devoted all their energies to tending their stock, and ultimately to marketing them. Those farmers became experts at valuing their stock, and could predict their values with great accuracy. Despite their in-depth knowledge of cattle values, they still went to the mart to ensure that the market returned them the full value of their beast, and to ensure payment. Nowadays weanling production is dominated by part-timers, and the high viz jacket has become de-rigueur around the farmyard. These producers live exceedingly busy lives, and they somehow manage to squeeze in the management of quality beef herds in between dropping kids off to school, working in an office or on a site, and picking the kids up again. Many of these farmers, understandably, do not have the time to develop the wealth of knowledge of relative stock values that their forefathers did, and they depend on the livestock auction system to determine a fair price for their stock. These new generation of farmers do, however, share one common trait with their predecessors -- they all need to get paid. In this era of uncertainty in relation to the status of continental export markets, it is crucial that farmers can receive guaranteed payment for their stock. Only a mart can give this absolute guarantee. As bonded holders of auctioneers licences, who do all their trading through audited client accounts, marts give the seller the concrete assurance that they demand in relation to payment. Over the past number of years there have been incidents of farmers suffering non-payment for stock, by meat factories and others, and it is reassuring to know that there is one outlet that combines full transparency with fair prices and the guarantee of payment. Conditions of sale There has been much discussion recently on the vaccination of weanlings, the operation of a certification programme, and the charging of a levy in marts for certified weanlings. In fact, some commentators seem to have become a little confused about the fundamentals at stake. There has been talk of a proposed levy of €10 to be charged in marts, and as to whether it should be made a condition of sale. Irish Co-operative Society's (ICOS) view on these proposals is quite simple. We should do all in our power to encourage vaccination and other good husbandry practices, but the charging of a compulsory levy, on top of the bid price is unnecessary and counterproductive. The live export trade is crucially important to the maintenance of cattle prices, and all efforts should be made to protect and support it. Central to the maintenance of our live export business is the enhancement of the health status of weanlings, and the avoidance, if possible, of the pneumonia outbreaks which were reported last autumn. Accordingly, ICOS and its member marts are committed to encouraging farmers to adopt best practice in weaning husbandry, including meal feeding, dosing, vaccination, proper weaning, separation of bulls and heifers etc. Marts have organised meetings, seminars, farm walks, open days etc, with the support of co-operation of others on the industry, in an effort to get the message across that the health status of weanlings must be maximised. Marts have also sent out information on proper weaning practices, including vaccination and dosing. Many marts are holding separate sections in their sales for vaccinated weanlings, as a way of encouraging farmers to vaccinate and to encourage buyers to pay more for the vaccinated stock. ICOS marts, however, are not willing to impose a compulsory €10 levy on all buyers of vaccinated weanlings. The mart system was established half a century ago by farmers to break the stranglehold that dealers held on the cattle fairs. Co-op marts were formed to establish a fair price for stock, by creating a competitive auction system, that couldn't be manipulated by small numbers of dealers. The system has served farmers well, by strengthening the hand of sellers, and forcing buyers to pay a fair market price. ICOS is committed to the auction system, with the hammer price being the ultimate arbiter of an animal's value. Any proposal suggesting that the competitive bid process should be undermined, by introducing outside conditions, such as the presence or otherwise of a vaccination certificate, should be resisted. ICOS is adamant that the current conditions of sale in marts should not be altered. In the weanling sales already held this season, we have seen a bid premium of up to €50/hd for vaccinated weanlings, when compared with similar non vaccinated stock, and this premium should give a strong message to producers that it pays to dose and vaccinate suitable shipping-type weanlings. ICOS is happy that this premium exists, and it proves that the competitive auction process delivers real rewards to producers of the type of quality stock that the market wants. Any diminution of the auction process by using a levy to value stock would serve to weaken the auction system, by driving non-export buyers out of the ring, and reducing competition. ICOS is concerned that placing too much emphasis on the presence or otherwise of a vaccination certificate may distract buyers from the good husbandry practices which they should adhere to once they have purchased the animal. Finally, ICOS is extremely concerned that the proposal of a fixed levy of €10 per certified vaccinated weanling takes the spotlight off the veterinary profession and the drugs companies, who, in this instance, are providing drugs and certification at extraordinarily high prices. There appears to be a suggestion that vets and drug manufacturers can charge as much as they like for their products and services because of the promise of a €10 bonus. This is a wholly unacceptable scenario, and the prices that have been "suggested" by vets for vaccination and certification are extortionate and will serve to make Irish weanling producers uncompetitive in the international marketplace. If, as a cattle producing nation, we wish to compete on continental markets, we should be striving to obtain drugs and veterinary services at the price levels which pertain on those same continental markets. 
