stocks
{ ANN FITZGERALD 
    June 23 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/eu-to-discuss-ways-of-easing-stocking-complexity-rules-26148001.html }
A MORE friendly method of calculating stocking densities to qualify for the new extensification payments will be discussed at Friday's beef management committee meeting in Brussels. Last week's meeting of the committee discussed the complexity of the new extensification proposals, but it will be late July before the committee delivers its conclusive interpretation of the new regulations under Agenda 2000. The Committee is expected to deliver its conclusive interpretation of the relevant regulations before the summer recess in late July. From next year, stocking density calculations for extensification purposes must cover all cattle, including heifers. In order to facilitate the introduction of the new extensification regime, the Commission proposal is for herdowners to have five retrospective ``stock censuses'' next year. The data from the census will be used to calculate a mean stocking density over the year as a whole. In November 2000, five dates since the previous January will be selected on which applying herdowners will be asked to declare from their Herd Register the number and age of all cattle aged over six months. Sheep numbers will be calculated from the ewe premium applications while the ``stocking'' value of milk quota will remain as at present. However, the Department of Agriculture anticipates that these five-times-a-year censuses will only be necessary in 2000; after that it is confident the new Computerised Monitoring Movement System will be up and running, and stocking densities will be calculated from the CMMS data. In 2000 and 2001, extensification will be paid at a rate of £52/head for stocking rates under 1.6LU/ha, £26/head between 1.6-2 LU/ha. From 2002, it will be paid at a rate of £63/head where stocking rates are less than 1.4LU/ha, £31.50 between 1.4-1.8 LU/ha. The retention period for new slaughter premium expected to be set at 2 months and the application period for the Special Beef Premium will also be discussed at Friday's meeting. Next year the new slaughter premium, worth £21/head initially, rising in two equal steps to £63 in 2002, and payable on all adult cattle over the age of 8 months, will be introduced. The premium is also payable on exports to a Third Country. However, the marts, who currently handle an estimated one-third of finished cattle, are fearful that the new premium will further erode throughput. They are lobbying for a derogation to have the retention period set at zero, or alternatively that some other mechanism be found to avoid a drop in throughput because of the new premium. Under Agenda 2000, the Special Beef Premium will rise to £118 in 2002 and the minimum age for payment have been reduced to 9 months to 21 months, but the details of application dates have still to be finalised. The retention period is expected to remain at 2 months. In drawing up its plan to distribute the National Envelope, worth £24.5 million in 2002, the Department has been holding talks with a number of organisations, including the farming bodies.  As part of its proposal on the share-out, the IFA has been asking county executives to evaluate a number of options a top-up to the suckler cow premium, the deseasonalisation premium or a new heifer premium. The latter seems to emerging as the preferred choice. 
