stocks
{  
    January 28 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/life-beyond-the-zulu-principle-26163740.html }
THIS is the fourth in a series of six articles written by RORY GILLEN equity analyst in NCB Stockbrokers, in which he outlines successful stock-picking systems which were developed by recognised international stock market investors THIS week I have switched to the UK and outline Jim Slaters investment principles as documented in his 1996 investment classic Beyond The Zulu Principle. As many readers will remember, Jim Slater ran the infamous Slater Walker conglomerate that blazed a trail through the UK business world of the 1960s and early 1970s but came unstuck in the 1973/74 market crash. In the early 1990s, he began to document his investment principles. Beyond the Zulu Principle and Mr Slater's previous book The Zulu Principle can be purchased from Harriman House in London (Tel: 0044 1730 233870). In Beyond The Zulu Principal, Slater outlines quite clearly how he identifies stocks. Essentially, he looks for companies with a track record of strong earnings growth which is expected to continue. He tries to buy these stocks where the P/E rating is well below the growth rate (or a PE/G ratio at least below 1) i.e. if a stock is growing earnings at 15pc pa, he would look to buy it when the P/E ratio is well below that growth rate. He tends to avoid stocks with prospective P/Es over 20 arguing that very few stocks continue to grow at over 20pc pa for long. He also likes to see good cash flow, high returns on equity, evidence of a competitive advantage and director buying among other qualitative factors. The stock must also have outperformed the market over the previous 12 months in particular. For the purposes of this article, however, we in NCB were interested in determining whether we could isolate a selection of Mr Slater's quantitative criteria alone to produce balanced portfolios capable of delivering returns better than the UK market. We picked the following criteria and began backtesting. Key screening criteria: 1. 12 month prospective EPS growth greater or equal to 20pc 2. Prospective PE ratio less that or equal to 20 3. PE/G less than or equal to 0.75 4. Price outperformance against market over previous 12 months 5. Price performance against market over last 1 & 3 months no worse than -9pc All the relevant data is available in `Company REFS' a monthly publication devised by Mr Slater himself and published by Hemmington Scott. Ideally, we should have also incorporated some balance sheet and cashflow checks. Starting in November 1994, when Company REFS was first published, we ran a £10,000 ghost portfolio which was limited to 10 stocks using the above 5 criteria. After every six months, we repeated the exercise selling those stocks that no longer qualified and buying new stocks that became eligible, always maintaining 10 stocks. In the event of there being more than 10 stocks on the list, we picked the 10 with the best price strength over the previous year. The portfolios we back-tested substantially outperformed the market over the period (but not in every period) producing a compound annual return of 26pc against 17pc for the FTSE 100 and 15pc for the FT-Allshare. So why does this approach work so well? Firstly, turning the portfolio over every six months forces us to cut the losses and run the winners. The natural reaction is to do the opposite. Secondly, all other things being equal, share prices follow earnings and by insisting on growth of 20pc plus we were ensuring that the Zulu basket of stocks was growing significantly faster than the overall market in earnings terms. Thirdly, in Company REFS, a PE/G ratio is only awarded to companies with a consistency of growth which provides a degree of reliability. Fourthly, buying stocks when the P/E ratio is below the sustainable growth rate (PE/G well below 1) provides a significant margin of safety. Finally, ensuring that the shares selected had already beaten the market over the previous 12 months provides confirmation that the market also believes in the stocks chosen and has already begun the re-rating process. In the main, the portfolios were made up of mid cap and smaller companies as it is in this area of the market that undervalued growth companies can be more readily found. This smaller company bias also explains the relatively poor performance of the Zulu basket over the last six months but this trend shouldn't last long. Ideally, we would prefer a longer period of backtesting. Nonetheless, it is clear that there is a fundamental logic to the Slater process that looks compelling. (Mr Slater publishes his own monthly investment newsletter Investing for Growth (for details ring Hemmington Scott Tel: 0044 171 278 7769). Next week's article will focus on James O'Shaunnessy's 1996 investment classic What Works on Wall Street. He back tested to 1951 many different (quantitative) systems of selecting stocks to find out which performed best over that period. The results make fascinating reading.  A copy of all six articles can be obtained by writing to Bobby Hassett at NCB, 3Georges Dock, IFSC, Dublin 1 or by phone (01 611 5611) or e-mail Bobby.Hassett@ncb.ie 
