stocks
{  
    November 10 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/markets-eye-tokyo-stocks-as-meltdown-worries-grow-26201945.html }
ALL EYES will be turned towards the rising sun this morning as stock markets fret about a meltdown in the Japanese stock exchange the second largest in the world. Share prices in Dublin and London are expected to be marked down sharply when dealing opens, after Friday's sell-off in New York, when the Dow Jones index closed over 100 points down. But there are fears that much worse could be in store, especially if the Nikkei index drops below 14,000 12pc below its current values. At that level, many Japanese banks, already in financial trouble, would find that shares they hold as capital no longer cover their liabilities. The Tokyo stock market is only half the value it was in 1990, at the end of Japan's ``bubble economy'' and interest rates are close to zero. The fear now is that the crisis in smaller Asian economies could hit Japanese exports, sending the economy back into recession and the stock market even lower. On Friday, Japan's fourth largest investment bank, Yamaichi, was forced to deny publicly that it was about to file for bankruptcy as rumours swept the market about the problems of financial institutions. The weekend saw a 4pc fall in the South Korean stock market, one of the few to trade on a Saturday. The local currency has fallen 14pc and the central bank is believed to have almost exhausted its reserves defending it. The Asian countries are major customers for some Japanese products, but competitors in others. Japan, and the US, could face declining sales in those markets but more intense competition elsewhere as devalued currencies give the Asian manufacturers a competitive gain. ``We've got one foot on a bear market and one on a banana peel,'' Joseph Barthel, market strategist for Fahnestock and Co in New York, said. ``So we'd better be careful here.'' One result of the market turbulence is that the US Federal Reserve is expected to leave interest rates unchanged when its monetary committee meets on Wednesday. ``A rate rise would be a big surprise for financial markets. Stocks would be hit because it would highlight the overvaluation of the market,'' said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Co. The London market may also suffer from the effects of last week's quarter-point rise in UK interest rates. ``Undoubtedly it's going to be a shaky start. I won't be surprised if the stock market tests the 4,380 level again over the next few days,'' said Andy Hartwill, SocGen strategist in London. The FT-100 index closed down 99.5 points at 4,764 on Friday. A drop below 4,400 implies further falls of over 7pc in the value of leading shares. ``Some comfort can be taken by the marginal bounce on Wall Street on Friday, which was down 195 at one stage. All the attention will be on how the Nikkei handles it,'' said Hartwill. ``I would expect further declines and they could be of the order of two to three percent initially, but no one knows for sure,'' said Citibank chief economist Neil MacKinnon. Dublin analysts say the Irish market is good value compared with others, especially New York. But the market cannot escape international falls in share values. Many Irish investors are now exposed to foreign markets through the popular tracker bonds, sales of which have been running at £600m a year. Although many of these guarantee the initial investment, they also track markets downwards. A general crash could wipe out any gains they have made, especially those bought in the last twelve months or so. 
