stocks
{ BRIAN HEALY 
    January 04 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/stock-exchange-takes-big-bang-approach-26161459.html }
The Irish Stock Exchange and other participating European exchanges are adopting a `Big Bang' approach to the changeover to dealing in the euro. This involves a full transition, in a single move, from dealing in Irish pounds to dealing in euros. The `Big Bang' approach has been thoroughly planned and means that securities markets will be one of the first areas of the economy where there is a real and complete move to the euro. This transition has been made by the exchange in the period between the close of business on December 30, the last trading day for Irish pounds, and today, the first trading day for the euro. From today, all trading in equities, Government bonds and other securities on the Irish Stock Exchange, which was previously done in Irish pounds, will be in the euro. What will this mean for the private investor? Dealing: The main impact of the Euro on dealings in securities listed on the Irish Stock Exchange is that all Irish equities and bonds which were previously dealt in Irish pounds will be dealt in euro from today. If you want to buy or sell equities or bonds, the price quoted on the exchange will be in euros. This does not mean that you can no longer use Irish pounds in dealings with an Irish stockbroker. What it does mean is that your stockbroker will continue to accept payments in Irish pounds as well as euros. Any payments made by your stockbroker, whether in euros or Irish pounds, can be changed to the other currency by your bank or can be lodged to your bank account. Where the investor wants to trade in securities which are listed in a country which is not in the euro zone, there will be little change from current practice. The most likely examples here are the UK (London Stock Exchange) and the US (New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, etc). These securities will be dealt, as they are at present, in the currency in which they are quoted (St£ or US$). If you opt to trade on a euro trading account with your broker, then such transactions will be translated to euros; otherwise you can settle in Irish pounds unless you wish to settle the transaction in the quoted currency. Certain documentation which accompanies dealings in securities, such as contract notes and periodic statements of account, will also be subject to changes in format and content. Contract notes and statements will change to reflect the euro basis of trading in securities. The approach of stockbroking firms will vary from showing all details in euros with a note of the Irish pound equivalent for the total euro amount, to showing euro trades converted to Irish pounds for each transaction with other details and totals in Irish pounds. Stock transfer forms will not need to change for euro dealing. If an investor has either bought or sold securities before 31 December, 1998 for settlement on or after 4 January 1999, this transaction will normally settle in Irish pounds unless you have elected to settle in euro. Existing Holdings: Existing Irish share certificates will remain valid and can be delivered in full satisfaction of a deal done in euros. This will remain the case until you are notified by the listed company in question of the redenomination of its share capital from Irish pounds to euro and of consequent changes, if any, to existing share certificates. The process whereby listed companies redenominate the securities which comprise their share capital will take place on a company by company basis over the next three years. The Irish Stock Exchange has recommended that listed companies declare their dividends in euros from 4 January, 1999. However where companies declare in Irish pounds, the Exchange will publish in pounds, but in all such cases it will also publish the euro equivalent of the Irish pound amount. In cases where an investor has availed of a nominee service, then any action to be taken at a later stage resulting from listed companies redenominating their shares from Irish pounds to euros will be done by the nominee service. Irish Government bonds will also be affected by the transition to the euro. From 4 January 1999 all outstanding Irish Government bonds, which were originally issued in Irish pounds, will be redenominated to the euro and they will be quoted, traded and settled in euros on the Irish Exchange. During the transition period to the introduction of euro notes and coinage, i.e. up to 31 December 2001, a facility for payment of coupons and redemption of capital in Irish pounds will be available on request from the National Treasury Management Agency. For advice on particular aspects of your own share dealings, contact your stockbroker.  * Brian Healy is head of regulation, Irish Stock Exchange 
