stocks
{  
    July 15 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/fourth-company-to-join-expanding-dcm-26180558.html }
Irish Stock Exchange disappointed that more companies have not come on board so far. DAVID MURPHY reports.THIS month the Developing Companies Market (DCM), an offshoot of the Irish Stock Exchange, will attract a fourth company to join it, but the exchange is disappointed more companies have not come on board. The-18-month-old DCM is geared at attracting smaller growing companies to take stock market listings. But stock exchange chief executive Tom Healy says he would have hoped to have between 10 and 12 companies on the new market by now. Suparule, an Irish manufacturer of hi-tech measuring instruments will this month list on the market. And in the next six months at least two other companies will join it. Mr Healy says: ``We are happy with the way companies have performed on the DCM but we are disappointed with the number of companies that have joined.'' One of the most remarkable success stories of the DCM has been the recruitment company Marlborough, which is headed by David McKenna. It listed at 96p on the DCM and the Alternative Investment Market in London in October, 1997, and its shares surged to 200p. Early in 1998, it upgraded to the official lists in Dublin and London as it expanded through £20m acquisition. This year its price has hit 400p, although it is now trading at 350p. The other companies which are still on the DCM are Rapid Technology Group, Independent Telecoms Group (ITG) and BCO Technologies. ITG enjoyed an excellent set of results this year and its share price has risen from 81p to over 300p. Its shares are now suspended while it is raising £14m to fund a major British acquisition. It is now thought that ITG may too move on the official lists in Dublin and London which have the benefit of giving additional visibility and being more attractive to fund managers. Typically companies like Marlborough and Suparule take a dual listing on the DCM and the AIM in London. Although the DCM's predecessor, the Unlisted Securities Market, was criticised that it did work as a springboard for some of Ireland's most successful companies like Elan, Kerry Group, Kingspan, Fyffes, IAWS, Boxmore and United Drug. Market sources say if a DCM company is not a success or worse still if investors get burned it could permanently damage the reputation of the new market. This happened in the case of the Smaller Companies Market, another predecessor of the DCM, in the 1980s. One of the possible reasons that the DCM has not attracted more firms is that the Dublin stock market is facing stiff competition from other markets. Larger companies like Ryanair, Esat, Iona and Icon have chosen to join the US electronic stock market NASDAQ. With low interest rates some firms may also be opting to use debt to raise fund rather than equity. Mr Healy says that larger high-tech companies have been attracted to the NASDAQ market because they would have a higher multiple when they join the market. But he points out the market ``is not necessarily as stable as a domestic market''. NASDAQ investors are liable to quickly pull out of a stock to take profits. Mr Healy says it looks as if in the future there may be a ``slow trickle'' of companies joining the DCM. ``It seems while companies express an interest they are taking their time.'' Liam Booth, director of corporate finance at Goodbody Stockbrokers says ``we would expect two other firms to join from our stable by the end of the year''. He adds: ``We have to bear in mind that from '90 to '96 there were only six stock market flotations.'' John Keilthy, head of private clients division in NCB, says ``that the market is still interested in the DCM as exemplified by Marlborough. ``The success of Marlborough has encouraged others.'' Investment can go in cycles and Mr Keilthy says the focus is currently on front line stocks. ``Now many people go to AIB and Bank of Ireland, if that situation was to change you could see a lot more interest in the DCM.'' One of the more most important bodies of people who corporate financiers and companies going on to the stock market have to win over are fund managers who run the investment portfolios for pension funds. ``Fund managers are cautious by nature,'' says Pramit Ghose investment director at Friends First. He says it is still ``early days'' for the market. And he points out there is an emphasis on quality. ``We don't want rubbish there is a clear mandate that we want quality stocks.''  Ann Fitzgerald, chief executive of the Irish Association of Investment Managers, says that fact that one company has already left the market for the official list is a barometer of its success. 
