stocks
{  
    April 17 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/stocks-bounce-back-from-bust-to-boom-26120240.html }
By DAVID MURPHY Deputy Business Editor     THE key US technology stock market Nasdaq last night staged a record breaking recovery, after a roller THE key US technology stock market Nasdaq last night staged a record breaking recovery, after a roller coaster day on world markets. Share prices plunged on eastern and London markets earlier yesterday following Friday's Wall Street dive. But New York held its nerve and finished well up after bouncing into negative territory and back again. Now, crucial financial results from the computer chip maker Intel today are likely to determine if the stock markets can recover from the extraordinary lows of recent days. The Nasdaq market had its biggest single point gain in one day ever as investors bought top technology companies that have a pattern of earnings growth, while shunning those that can only promise future profits. But in an extraordinary day for world of business, the Dublin market endured its biggest one day drop since October 1998 as £2.2bn was wiped off the value of shares. The global shake-out has been prompted by fears that high-flying internet stocks have been overvalued, leading to Friday's 10pc collapse in the Nasdaq market. Last night it closed 6.3pc up and the Dow Jones gained 2.5pc, as investors sniffed out some bargains after the hefty sell-off last week sent technology stocks plunging but analysts warned the selling may not be over. Paul McGowan, joint managing director of Dublin-based Dolmen Bultler Briscoe Stockbrokers, said: ``It is not necessarily over yet.'' He added: ``You could still have more volatility this week.'' Dealers said the negative sentiment immediately pushed down Irish companies although the volume of trading was thin as investors monitored action abroad. Among the big fallers was Eircom, which ended trading at £3.07 (euro 3.90) having fallen by 4.5pc the price at which 560,000 Irish people bought the stock last July. Also affected by the shake-out were Irish banks and industrial stocks, which lost ground as the Irish market opened following a poor performance by Asian markets. Today's results from giant chip manufacturer Intel will determine if the Nasdaq can continue its rally. One analyst last night said if the figures miss their target it could prompt another stock market wobble. Many analysts have predicted that high technology stocks could still fall further before investors begin to buy back. 
