stocks
{  
    March 16 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/taking-a-bath-on-a-slow-burning-black-monday-26122138.html }
The recent collapse of major stock prices has been hidden by the rise in technology-related issues and the arrival of new players like Ryanair,... The recent collapse of major stock prices has been hidden by the rise in technology-related issues and the arrival of new players like Ryanair, Eircom and Esat, writes Jim Aughney LEADING companies listed on the Dublin Stock Market have seen their shares slump as badly as the overall market collapse which took place when shares fell by 25pc in a few hours of trading on Black Monday in September 1987. However, while shareholders in these companies have literally been losing their shirts and the ability to buy replacements there are no signs of stockbrokers or investment managers jumping off window ledges in Dame Street or the IFSC. And newspapers and 24-hour TV news stations don't have images of panicking dealers. That's because the most recent collapse has been hidden by the rise in technology-related stocks and the arrival of new fresh players like Ryanair, Eircom and Esat. Its also happening in London where shares in 59 of the Footsie 100 companies have fallen by 30pc on average over the past year. The younger ``new economy'' players have masked the slump in their ``old economy'' counterparts. The ISEQ index of all stocks is currently trading around the 5,200 level which compares well with a 30pc rise on the 4,000 level of September 1998. However financial stocks mainly the two big banks and Irish Life & Permanent - fell in value by 23pc during 1999, by a further 15pc in January 2000 and have drifted further since. Bank of Ireland has fallen by 28pc between the beginning of this year and this week. AIB is down 24.5pc in the past ten weeks, and Irish Life & Permanent is down 16.5pc over the same period. And its not just the financials. Smurfit is down 29.4pc on the three euro level at which it finished 1999, while a solidly-managed quality company like CRH which is on the expansion trail is down 19.2pc. Kerry Group is slightly down on its year-end level of euro 11.90 and has shown little sign of bursting past the 12 euro ceiling. Waterford Wedgwood has gone through a transformation over the past few years; yet its shares lie 7pc below their end-1999 level. In contrast leading companies which have any connection with technology, media or telecommunications (the so-called TMT sector) have shrugged off their ``old economy'' status and now stand as links between the old and new. Independent News & Media has seen its shares rise by 67.9pc since the end of 1999 and by 218pc since the end of 1998 - a near trebling in value from euro 3.43 to euro 10.93. It has growing internet and telephony businesses and thus straddles two of the three desirable sectors. Fyffes, a fruit and fresh products distributor now with the second generation holding the reins, has jumped in price by 77.5pc since the end of December. Its shares stood at euro 1.90 at the beginning of 1999 and at euro 2.00 a year later. However they are now over euro 3.50 and hit a peak recently of euro 4.00. Elan has behaved like an out-of control meteor, while Esat and Eircom have both rewarded their investors belief in telecoms. The divergence between old economy and new economy will be highlighted after the middle of May when the Dublin exchange introduces its version of the NASDAQ market in the US and the Neur Markt in Frankfurt. The new system will allow companies to list on NASDAQ and the Dublin tech market simultaneously. According to Stock Exchange president David Kingston, this will expand the practice of investing in indices by institutions and will meet some of the demand for technology stocks on the part of investors. More and more investors will commit 50pc of their portfolios to indices and speculate with the remainder, he says. ``All Western Europe is facing a bombing-out in terms of prices in the old economy companies,'' he says. The new market will see dozens of Irish technology companies coming to market and the Dublin exchange will either get a lot of them or very few of them. ``The new technology companies want two things - demand for the shares and a listing environment which suits them,'' Stock Exchange general manager Tom Healy says. ``If we satisfy those two requirements, then we will attract a lot of the IPOs,'' he estimates. Both Kingston and Healy feel that techie stocks are in for a re-appraisal at some stage and will reach a mature stage where rapid growth is no longer possible. Both are agreed there will be a number of failures which will dampen expectations. But where does this leave the traditional, old economy companies? As a former managing director of Irish Life, Mr Kingston has experience on both sides of the chequered trading floor of the Anglesea St exchange. ``Financial services will be more fundamentally affected by technology. ``The question is how are you going to cope with the fact that distribution will change. ``Less so at CRH where there is a physical product. You can get frustrated by fashion but you ignore the markets at your peril - they are still giving you a message,'' he says. ``There are going to be a lot of takeovers on the Irish market,'' he says. But he also feels that old economy companies will adapt to the new technology applicable to their sectors. Tom Healy notes that companies which can expand will continue to attract investors even though the old economy stocks will continue to decline in importance. ``Investors in the banks cannot ignore the yield for ever,'' he says. The rapid rise in the numbers and spending power of private investors brings a new dynamic which will drive change on its own, he concludes. 
