stocks
{ Brian McDonald and  Eilish O'Regan 
    September 27 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/stale-iodine-discovered-in-fallout-from-jacob-radio-fiasco-26075549.html }
THE Government was last night frantically trying to  recover from a second day of embarrassment over the National Emergency Plan. Health Minister Micheal Martin was sent out to repair the damage caused by Junior Minister Joe Jacob's disastrous RTE radio interview with Marian Finucane. But in the course of an interview on Morning Ireland, Mr Martin was asked about the availability of iodine tablets which featured largely in Mr Jacob's responses the previous day. Non-radioactive iodine tablets reduce the uptake of radioactive iodine following post-nuclear exposure. Mr Martin said that iodine tablets were stocked in all health boards and there was sufficient stocks in all health boards. But a survey of health boards yesterday revealed that most health boards did not have any stocks of iodine tablets. While tablets had been issued some years ago, they had since passed their use by date and had been destroyed. A spokesperson for the Western Health Board said that the tablets had been tested but found to be ineffective and had been disposed of. The same situation is understood to apply to most of the other health boards. A statement by the Eastern Regional Health Authority confirmed that its large stock of iodine tablets had passed its use-by date but had been tested regularly and was still effective. The statement added: "There have been discussions in relation to distributing iodine to individual households so that each household will have its own supply readily to hand if ever needed in an emergency situation." But last night the Department of Health issued a separate statement aimed at reassuring the public about the availability of effective stocks of iodine tablets. The department statement said that the Department of Health was currently finalising the necessary arrangements for the purchase of new stocks of iodine tablets for predistribution in the event of a national nuclear emergency. The statement added: "Stocks of iodine tablets were distributed to and held by all regional health boards since 1991 as part of the National Nuclear Emergency Plan which is co-ordinated by the Department of Public Enterprise. "However, it has emerged that some health boards have disposed of these stocks as they were past their best-before date and these boards believed that they were ineffective." The statement pointed out that ingestion of iodine tablets may be effective in preventing thyroid cancer in certain populations, especially children exposed to radioactive fallout. The necessity of continued stocking of iodine tablets as part of the health input into the National Nuclear Emergency Plan was reviewed as part of an update of the overall Plan, according to the statement. It was recommended that new stocks of iodine tablets should be purchased and predistributed as a more effective counter measure. The Minister for Health and Children has accepted this recommendation and is making the necessary arrangements to restock these tablets, the statement added. There was no reference to the minister's earlier radio interview stating that sufficient stocks of tablets were already held by the health boards. Meanwhile, Tanaiste Mary Harney said the Government should embark on a public awareness campaign in the event of a national emergency as soon as it has gathered all the relevant information. While urging calm, Ms Harney said that in the light of the tragic events of September 11, the public needed to be kept informed on the emergency procedures being put in place. The defence forces were currently advising the Government on the new threat of biological warfare, something which had not been contemplated in the past, she added. 
