stocks
{ Eamon Leonard 
    March 22 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/strategies-for-avoiding-the-bear-hug-26094080.html }
Investors must husband their portfolios in the worst slump in world equity markets since the 1970s With stocks tumbling and growing pessimism about the outlook for corporate profits, particularly in the technology sector, now is the time for investors to consider their in the bear market. In such volatile times, investors should: focus on long-term winners and diversify; invest by regular instalments; use 'cost averaging', and don't try to fight the markets - invest in what's working now. The markets may have hit bottom. They may be headed lower. Either way, you'll find that you can greatly reduce your risk if you invest in regular instalments every month, two months, etc. Imagine if you had done this six months ago. Instead of pouring all of your cash back into the market at what seemed like 'rock bottom' prices at the time, you would have been better served if you had put your money to work more slowly, investing more and more as stocks headed lower. We should learn from this. Instead of investing £10,000 in Cisco all at one time (and hoping for a market bottom), you might want to invest £2,000 per month until fully invested. While this will certainly limit your upside potential if the markets stage an immediate dramatic rally, it will also protect you if the markets continue their downward plunge. Although the potential upside is high at present if you go for broke now, you're probably going to be better off if you spread your money out a little bit at a time. Three scenarios could unfold over the next year the markets trade sideways for the next 6-12 months, stocks continue to slide as the great bull market is over for the time being, or the markets start moving up, and move dramatically higher through the summer. This might be an opportunity to buy stocks at deeply discounted prices. ? We feel that many investors may have focused too much on specific stock picks, and have ignored the benefits of diversification. Diversification allows you to spread your risk which insulates you from stock/industry specific shocks. For example, investors who were fully invested in technology last March could be down over 50pc, whilst those who spread their portfolios both by industry and geographically could even be up, from this time last year. The recent turmoil in the US tech markets and the downward spiralling Eircom share price has reminded many investors that putting all your investments 'into the one basket' is a risky strategy. The only way of making sure that you don't get completely blown out in a downturn is to diversify. True diversification means that your portfolio has a spread of assets, not all necessarily doing well at the same time. Investors can diversify their equity portfolio easily this way. But they may also want to diversify away from equities into cash products or property. The essential insight behind asset allocation is that different investments carry distinct risks and rewards. For example, shares are far riskier than bank deposits but investors generally expect a higher return from investing in equities the reward for taking on the extra risk. The key question in designing a portfolio is 'how much risk can I take on'. For example, an investor with 30 years to retirement can bear greater volatility and risk than one who's five years away from retirement. Technology has been a dud over the last year. The good news, however, is that there are other places to put your money. Energy and healthcare have been red hot. Over the past 12 months, stocks in both sectors have roughly doubled in value. While it's true that yesterday's winners are sometimes today's losers, we think that both of these sectors still have quite a bit of have upside left in them. In addition, demand in both industries should remain relatively stable regardless of what the economy does. With interest rates falling, we also favour financial stocks, especially those focusing on life products. Here are a few of our top picks. BCP believes the stocks mentioned below offer good value, and are sound investments. We believe that investors should look to weakness in these stocks for buying opportunities, going forward. Energy: S&P Energy SPDR (basket of energy stocks in the S&P 500) Exxon, Mobil Pharmaceuticals: Procter & Gamble, Pfizer, Glaxo SmithKline, Elan. Financials: Bank of Ireland, IL&P, Legal & General. Telecommunications: Vodafone, Nokia. Technology: Intel, Microsoft, IBM, EMC, Cisco. Industrials: GE 
