stocks
{ Ailish O'Hora 
    February 14 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/learning-lessons-from-elan-fallout-26058431.html }
Pat  Woods is an investment manager at Standard Life Investments, the life and pensions firm which is the biggest  mutual in Europe. It emerged last week that SLI had a heavy weighting in troubled Elan Q Should what has happened with AIB and Elan shares recently serve as a warning to fund managers to reduce their holdings in Irish stocks? A Despite the fact that fund managers have been reducing their holdings in Irish stock for the best part of a decade, this reduction in the stock specific risk in Irish balanced funds remained as the top three or four stocks became a larger component of the index. Irish pension funds have benefited greatly from their exposure to Irish equities - despite the recent fall due to AIB and Elan. Q Currently pension fund exposure to Irish equities accounts for 18pc of their overall assets, what is an acceptable level? A Five years ago, some in the industry felt that the 'correct' level for Irish equities in a balanced fund was of the order of 15pc. In practice, pension fund trustees make this call by setting their investment managers a benchmark in general in Ireland this is a competitive benchmark. This means that if the average fund has 20pc in Irish equities, funds might hold between 16pc and 24pc, depending on whether the investment manager feels more or less optimistic than the average on the outlook for Irish shares. We need to bear in mind that US pension funds may have all their equity holdings in US stocks, UK funds on average have 50pc in UK stocks. Q What lessons, in terms of weighting, can be learned from the fallout? A The key lesson in terms of weighting is that competitor benchmarks can lead to very high stock specific exposures. Pension trustees need to understand this. They also need to understand what, if any, restrictions they need to put on their funds. Q How can pension holders be reassured going forward? A The most important decision for pension funds is to ensure that their provider is likely to outlive them! This makes a provider's financial stability of paramount importance. Then they must decide whether it makes sense to take risks in order to generate reward. The effects of the drop in Elan and AIB share prices are unfortunate but not catastrophic. Q How significant will the AIB and Elan slumps be on pension fund performances in 2002? A Mercer are of the view that AIB/Elan will be the dominant factor affecting the performance of pension funds during the first quarter of 2002. With only six weeks of the first quarter remaining it is difficult to argue otherwise. However, Irish equities make up 18pc, or less now, of the average balanced pension fund. Q Could it be time for managers to look for alternative investment opportunities? A It is important for pension fund trustees, members and advisers to avoid knee-jerk reactions. Only funds with significant equity weightings provide the types of returns that pension funds require. It is equally true that the path to these returns is always uneven and investors find themselves facing unpleasant shocks along the way, for example, the Gulf War. Bonds and property can help smooth out the uncertainties but equities is where you need the majority of the fund to be invested over the time frame of pension fund investment. Q Standard Life had a full weighting in Elan. On what basis was this decision taken and in retrospect was it a shrewd one? A Obviously the decision looks anything but shrewd right now. Equally, I could list many shrewd decisions made by Standard Life Investments. For example, no exposure to Enron and a conscious decision to avoid dotcoms in the late 1990s. We first became interested in taking a position in Elan following the clean bill of health given to the company in 1999 by the SEC and we also liked the evolution of the company into a pharmaceutical. Q Is it true that some institutions have internal rules restricting them from reflecting the full market weighting in their portfolios? A I presume this is a reference to Elan. Certain institutions are claiming to have such rules. They may have, but you would have to ask how they run their funds and check their weighting before the sell off. The industry standard, which we follow, is that no one stock should account for more than 5pc of a balanced fund. Full weighting of Elan in the average Irish Pension Fund at January 1 2002 would have been less than 4pc. So the standard rule would not have prevented a balanced fund from having a full market weight in Elan nor AIB. Q Are there plans afoot to change this, considering Standard Life was the most exposed fund to Elan after the pharmaceutical giant dropped over 60pc in the past month? A It remains to be seen whether we were in fact the most exposed to Elan. Initial indications suggest we were among the more exposed managers, but not the most exposed. We are examining what lessons we could learn from the Elan experience but we will avoid sudden reactions. Q Could it be argued that Elan be removed from the index altogether? A Elan is one of many stocks around the globe that has dual listings. For example, Nokia, Sony, Royal Dutch Shell, to name but a few. Nokia, for example, accounts for around 6pc of the Finnish stock market index. It is possible to evaluate the performance of Irish stocks by stripping out the impact of Elan's share price movement. Removing it from the index would serve no practical purpose. 
