stocks
{  
    September 11 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/can-an-investment-club-show-me-the-rules-of-the-stock-market-game-25965721.html }
The basics of the stock exchange seem pretty straightforward: buy cheap, sell dear. But how do you get yourself into the market? JIM AUGHNEY offers some easy - or not so easy - options HERE is a fairly typical question which is occasionaly received by the personal finance team at the Irish Independent. "I have some funds which have been left to me and which I would love to invest in the stock market as I am not impressed with the quarter per cent interest I am receiving on my deposit account. "I don't know where to start investing in the stock market and I am wondering about joining an investment club. Unfortunately I don't have any spare regular income - I spend all I earn - but I can hold on to my lump sum". It's difficult to say whether an investment club is suited to the demands of this reader. For a start most investment clubs work on the basis of regular investment of say ?100 per month rather than the asset-rich, income-poor circumstances of our reader. Regular saving is a proven method of building up a substantial amount of money. Look at the large amounts being accumulated in the Special Savings Investment Accounts. Even without the Government's free 25pc top-up, saving ?250 per month for five years will give you a lump sum of ?15,000. The reader should look again at his finances to see if there is a way he can regularly save even ?50 a month. Investment clubs work on the basis of ten or more people getting together, pooling their ?100 or so a month and carefully choosing shares in which to invest. To learn the basics of how investment clubs can work and how they can be set up, there is a group called Proshare in the UK which is a non-profit promoter of investment clubs and much information can be obtained on their website. In Ireland there are two investment club organisations - neither of them are non-profit. The Investment Club Network (TICN) is run by Owen O'Malley in Donegal. The website is www.ticn.com. It holds seminars running over a weekend costing about ?1,500 at which you are taught to be an online trader of stock options. The network has over 200 active investment clubs. TICN is for serious investors who can handle the discipline of buying and selling options on stock. Mr O'Malley stresses that members of the investment club should go for training. If there are 20 members in the club, that can take some time and can also be quite costly. The other, more recently-formed, investment club network is Invest Like the Best which has a website at www.investlikethebest.com It charges ?585 for a one-day seminar. Invest Like the Best founder Rory Gillen says that his seminar will teach participants relatively simple investment programmes and methods. For example, he can show participants how to invest in the 15 stocks with the highest dividend yields in the FTSE 100 and sell them exactly one year later - hopefully at a decent profit. Mr Gillen says that learning how to trade stock options is too complicated for most armchair investors. Apart from the cost of the seminars, both TICN and Invest Like the Best take a free carry in the investment clubs which they help set up. This entitles them to one twentieth of the wealth you generate. Many people may have a difficulty giving away a portion of their hard-earned investment club funds, which effectively amounts to a 5pc carried charge. In addition, Invest Like the Best will make an annual charge for software it offers. This has not yet been quantified but is likely to run to a few hundred euro per year. Alternatively, our reader might like to place his lump sum in an online deposit account at Rabo Direct where it will earn 3pc a year (website: www.rabodirect.ie). If still interested in stock market investment on his own, he can also start reading books by and about stock market investment gurus like Warren Buffett, Peter Lynch and Benjamin Graham. 
