stocks
{  
    October 29 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/costly-form-of-correction-26202943.html }
SOUNDS DREADFUL, doesn't it? A total of £2,500m wiped off the value of Irish shares since the Dublin Stock Exchange closed its doors on Thursday. If you want to feel gloomy, that is equivalent to half the total income tax revenues for a year. But that is not the way to look at it. Indeed, provided stock markets do not go into complete meltdown, this month's falls could even work to the advantage of the Irish economy and Irish citizens. For a start, the falls must be put in context. The value of shares in Irish companies had risen by some £12bn this year, and their total valuation is still almost £32bn. In that context, a £2.5bn fall is nothing to worry about. Merely a correction. This, at any rate, is the hope as far as US and European stock markets go. Wall Street's strong bounce back yesterday underlines the roller-coaster nature of the markets. The increases in share prices this year around a quarter could not go on indefinitely. Many market participants would feel happier if stocks took a breather. They certainly do not envisage any repeat of the mayhem in the Far East, where share prices are down around 50pc in dollar terms since the start of the year in many markets. INTEREST RATES But then, the increases there were even more dramatic. To take just one example, before the tumbles, the stock exchange in Taiwan had risen 90pc since March last year. No fundamentals can justify that. Here, perhaps, is the first lesson of these events. Never has so much money been looking for a home, as the West's baby-boomers of the 1940s reach middle age and affluence and look for something to guarantee their old age. There are plenty of people willing to sell them a dream. A research magazine from a big London investment house which arrived this week contained among others articles on riding the Mexican bull and Indian derivatives. Driven by heady recent returns, international trading in shares and bonds by US investors last year equalled 164pc of total US output. Domestically, investment in US mutual funds equivalent to our unit funds where ordinary people buy into market-linked investments is running at an unimaginable £2,500bn a year. This is the main danger from a stock market fall. If many of these people decide they want out, and try to cash in their funds, managers have to sell shares to raise the cash for them, driving prices down further. More investors might panic, turning a correction into a real crash. Then the so-called ``wealth effect'' would come into play. Instead of having savings valued at, say, $100,000, the baby-boomer finds they are worth only $50,000. He decides to postpone buying the new car, or changing house, or taking that hunting trip. The real economy slows down as well. After the Crash of ``Black Monday'' almost exactly ten years ago, central banks, led by the US Federal Reserve, cut interest rates to offset this effect. The policy worked and there was no slump, although there was some extra inflation. That would be a bit more difficult this time. Interest rates are already low and therefore there is less scope for cuts. That is the bind Japan found itself in, where the economy has not yet recovered from the market crash of 1990. But here is where the good news comes. Central banks may not be ready to cut rates but they may respond to the stock market falls by postponing rate rises. The Fed, the Bank of England and the Bundesbank were all expected to raise interest rates within the next few weeks. If they do not, it will mean another roar for the Celtic Tiger, although whether it needs one is another matter. It had begun to look as if rates here might come down only slightly when we join the single European currency, because European rates were on the way up. Weaker stock markets might yet deliver a fall of over one per cent for Irish borrowers. PROPERTY VALUES And Ireland has little to fear from the wealth effect. Less than five per cent of Irish people own shares, compared with over 40pc of Americans. Even though some £600m went into Irish stock market products last year, a relatively small proportion of people are involved. Interest rates, on the other hand, have a dramatic effect, because of the £12bn held in mortgages. We would not, of course, be immune to a slowdown in the world economy, led by the USA. Indeed, our dependence on US multi-national investment makes us particularly vulnerable. So, while a modest market correction might bring the benefits of lower interest rates, a real crash could be bad news. The main reason for optimism is that the other major ingredient for a crash seems to be missing in the West. This is when a share price boom is accompanied by a bubble in property values as well. Banks lend money based on inflated values of shares and property and find their loans are not covered when the crash comes. They pull in their horns, when they do not go bust altogether. When the banks have no money, the economy finds it hard to grow. This is what is crippling Japan and may cripple the Far Eastern economies for some time to come. In Malaysia, total bank lending amounts to 160pc of GDP. In Thailand, private companies have debts of over $60bn. Much of this is actually in dollars, so the collapse of the local currencies against the dollar spells big trouble. WESTERN banks have just been through this, with the property boom and bust of the 1980s. Even bankers' memories are not that short, and they have been lending prudently since. So the fall in stock markets should have only limited impact on their balance sheets. There is, in other words, no need to panic. Well, that's the word on the Street. 
