stocks
{  
    January 28 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/billion-dollar-net-stocks-yet-to-show-profit-26163745.html }
The US screen based market Nasdaq has soared lately on the back of internet stocks.INTERNET retailer Amazon has been an amazing success by most standards. The company yesterday announced a tripling of its turnover to £688m as online sales soared. It is now worth £12.4bn just three and a half years after being set up in Seattle, the USA's new hi-tech zone, also home to Microsoft. Amazon is the biggest online retailer of books, music and video in the world, offering 4.7 million titles to 4.5 million customers in 160 countries. It boasts technology that not only allows customers to listen to music over the net, but also to read reviews penned by other customers and experts, and even contribute their own opinions. The company presents just one small problem for share analysts it's rather difficult to work out its price earnings ratio as Amazon has yet to make a profit. In fact net losses for last year, announced yesterday, were £51m. The company is typical of the fast-track internet stocks whose value is seen in an expected explosion of e-commerce that, if their price/earnings (PE) ratios are anything to go by, will send earnings through the stratosphere. Maybe. Others include Yahoo, an internet search engine. If the name doesn't send cautious investors running for cover, then its PE ratio of 739 for last year certainly will. At least Yahoo makes a profit, even if it was a miniscule 24 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 1998. Yahoo and Amazon both feature prominently and are closely associated with the US Nasdaq index. Yahoo is the ninth biggest stock on it valued at $36bn (£24.5bn), while Amazon scrapes into the top twenty with a market cap of $20bn. Both shares, and the equally high-flying internet server Excite (market cap of $15.5bn; losses per share of $2.14) were, in volume terms, among the top ten stocks dealing hands yesterday on Nasdaq. Nasdaq may baulk at the focus on companies with such precarious PE ratios as it also includes rather more solid technology favourites, such as Microsoft and Intel. And, in fact, finance stocks are more numerous on Nasdaq than the `techies' as Maggie Kelly, vice-president international marketing, pointed out yesterday in a briefing for Dublin journalists. Yet hi-tech companies such as Ireland's Iona are drawn to the huge base of sophisticated investors offered by Nasdaq which is the ideal hatching zone for such corporate fledglings. As Maggie points out, size is not so important for new arrivals. ``There may be small companies which have a compelling story to tell.'' And the explosive growth and hi-tech focus that characterise such firms are also behind the success of the Nasdaq itself, Maggie outlined yesterday. Nasdaq, the world's first electronic-based stock exchange, is the fastest growing major market in the world. Although just 28-years-old, it now accounts for more than half of all the shares that change hands in the US each day. Last year, share volume reached 202.0bn, up 23pc over 1997. The market value of the 5,126 companies listed on Nasdaq stood at $2.6 trillion (£1.8 trillion), up over 44pc from year-end 1997. The market's best index performers were the Nasdaq Computer and Telecommunications, up 83.3pc and 63.4pc, respectively. Nasdaq has also used promotion and technology to shake up the venerable, and cosy, US establishment which had been dominated for centuries by the New York Stock Exchange. It was the first to advertise on television, forcing the NYSE to follow suit. The level of capital raised on Nasdaq through initial public offerings (IPOs) exceeded that raised on the NYSE three out of the past four years, only narrowly falling behind in 1998. Nasdaq's websites (www.nasdaq-amex-uk.com is one) are also formidable investor tools offering consensus analyses by a selection of brokers on each stock as well as all the fundamentals and price.  Ireland is an important part of that focus, not least because there are eleven Irish firms quoted including Iona, CRH, Ryanair and Waterford Wedgwood. That's proportionally a high figure among around 400 non-US stocks on the market. 
