stocks
{  
    April 12 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/roll-up-roll-up-great-irish-firms-going-dirt-cheap-26230541.html }
BILLY HANLEY THERE is a continuing puzzle as to why the Irish economy, so resilient through the multiple shocks of recent years like Foot and Mouth, September 11, as well as the war in Iraq, should have its principal stock market full of shares at bargain basement prices. Take auctioneers Sherry FitzGerald for instance. The most striking aspect of Ireland's economy last year was the strength of the housing market, yet Sherry Fitz shares, the most direct play on house prices on the Irish stock exchange, has performed so poorly. Sherry Fitz earnings grew by 80 per cent over the past three years but late last year its shares were trading at less than half the flotation price of ?1.99 from mid-2000, at a meagre four times price-earnings ratio. Even at this low price there was no appetite for the stock among institutional investors. Was it any surprise then, when management, frustrated at the failure of the stock market to reward their progress, decided to take the company private? This frustration is felt throughout the lower reaches of the Irish market. There is little or no demand for 'small cap' Irish stocks among the traditional institutional investor base. Irish fund managers have been net sellers of the local market since the introduction of the euro three years ago. This has largely been at the behest of actuaries and pension consultants, whose asset allocation decisions do not go as far as questioning how much individual stocks are worth. Conversely, overseas fund managers tend to have cut-off points for investing. A UK or German-based fund manager is unlikely to invest in any overseas stock with a value ofless than ?1bn. As a result, many of the smaller Irish stocks will never come on their radar, no matter how successful the companies might be. The collapse in international stock markets has exacerbated the problem. Tens of thousands of investment analysts have been culled in Frankfurt, London and New York. Trimmed-down investment banks no longer have the resources to research a 'small cap' Irish stock such as Heiton or Gresham Hotels. So is anyone interested in how much these companies are worth? Are there any investors prepared to take advantage of a bargain? The answer is quite evident in the number of Irish stocks that have been taken over in the past two years. The group most closely in tune with a company's worth is its own management. Sherry Fitz, Alphyra, Riverdeep, and Green Property are just a few examples of companies whose management were not prepared to let their stock be undervalued by a disinterested stock market. The management buyout process handsomely rewarded investors in these stocks. Private equity firms are also standing on the sidelines. Depressed stock prices have coincided with a 40-year low in interest rates. Private equity firms have been buying unloved but profitable businesses and then using the cashflow generated from these businesses to pay down financing costs. By taking companies private, the vagaries and whims of the stock markets can be avoided. Also standing on the sidelines are trade buyers. Kerry Group's acquisition of Golden Vale is an example of a company seeing its competitor being undervalued in the financial markets and stepping in to take advantage of this. All of the above involve companies being acquired and de-listed because they are so cheap. The lesson is that while there may be a shortage of buyers for stocks, where cheap companies are concerned there is no shortage of interested parties. The distinction is important; interested parties are not looking at Irish quoted companies as a stock whose value is subject to market volatility. Private equity firms and trade buyers are evaluating these companies as entire entities, which can continue to generate strong cashflows and profits. So what lesson is there for the small investor? Quite clearly, investing in these 'unloved' businesses can be very fruitful if they are acquired. Golden Vale was taken out at a 50 per cent premium to its pre-bid price. Riverdeep investors saw its shares jump by 70 per cent on the day that CEO Barry O'Callaghan announced his management buyout plan. The best way to identify potential targets is to take a cursory look at a company's financial ratios. The 'price-earnings ratio' is the most commonly used metric but p/es have been something of a victim of the spate of accounting frauds that exposed the extent to which profit figures can be manipulated. Potential buyers will be much more concerned with the free cashflow a company can generate. If the target is generating a lot of cash, then this can be used to pay back the debts involved in acquiring it. A second measure to look at is balance sheet strength. A company that is rich in assets can be a juicy target even when it is not generating huge amounts of cash. The key measure here is 'Price-to-Book Value', which shows the stock market value of a company versus the value of it assets. Above are a list of companies that may emerge as bid targets (see table). Gresham Hotels seems primed for takeover by a private equity firm. The company has never been hugely profitable and management is far from inspiring. Yet the company has ?210m worth of assets in the form of its hotel portfolio. If Red Sea doesn't make a bid for this company, then inevitably somebody else will, for the break-up value alone. Iona Technologies hardly fits into the category of the 'snubbed and ignored' where Irish equities are concerned, but it may well fit into the 'unloved'. The company is burning cash. However, thanks to a timely rights issue 12 months ago, Iona has ?75m of cash on its balance sheet. Its market capitalization is only ?40m. If its share price does not recover then this company will be acquired, most likely in a management buyout. Fyffes was one of the largest Irish companies in 1990. Unfortunately, its share price is actually lower now than it was 12 years ago while the ISEQ has more than doubled in value. The company is profitable and always has been. Yet management have failed, to persuade investors that the banana industry is worth buying into. Cash levels have been building up through the years, and the company is now sitting on a cash pile of ?200m. Expect to see some action in the current year. Irish Continental Group (ICG) is not sitting on a huge cash pile. Rather, it has borrowed quite heavily. But CEO Eamonn Rothwell has invested cleverly in 'state-of-the-art' ferries. The group now has a dominant position in freight and 'ro-ro' traffic on the Irish Sea and is throwing off substantial amounts of cash. UK rival P&O Princess have recently been bought out by Carnival Corp. ICG may well be the next to go. Billy Hanley is a fund manager with Dolmen Securities 
