stocks
{ Cyril Hardiman 
    June 13 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/world-stock-markets-still-in-nervous-freefall-26379346.html }
GLOBAL stock markets remained in freefall yesterday as investors nervously sold stock, their confidence sapped by a month of weak markets. European stock markets extended losses as US stock market futures pointed to a weaker opening on Wall Street, with inflation and interest rate concerns weighing on sentiment. US stocks duly opened lower after a report showed core producer prices rose more than expected, increasing concerns the Federal Reserve may increase interest rates and slow economic growth. A drop in US stocks followed sharp declines in Europe and Asia amid investors' worries that rising rates will weaken growth, slow consumer spending and squeeze corporate profits. Dublin's ISEQ Overall index shed another 3.3pc - the market's second-largest fall in 15 months. Its biggest setback (4.9pc) occurred last Tuesday week. In just over five weeks, since global equity markets got the jitters over interest rates and inflation, the Dublin market has fallen by an astonishing 13pc, completely wiping out gains registered over the opening four months and leaving the index 5.5pc down year-to-date. The ISEQ is now trading at levels last seen six months ago. Around Europe it was the same story. The FTSE-100 fell below 5,500 points for the first time since December, trading down 2.2pc. Germany's DAX fell 1.9pc and France's CAC-40 was 2.2pc lower. Japanese share prices posted their biggest fall since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, plunging by more than four per cent on concerns over the US economy and a scandal touching the central bank chief, dealers said. This followed heavy falls globally on Monday and left Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index at its lowest finish since November 2005. Smaller markets like Dublin and Athens have been hit hardest in this sell-off. Likewise, banking stocks in economies that have been experiencing the strongest credit growth - such as Ireland - are now being seen as most vulnerable to rising interest rates. Overseas holders of Irish shares have, as a consequence, been sellers of late, while dealers here say Irish fund managers have been largely out of the market. Selling has also been influenced by investors sorting out their CFD (Contract for Difference) positions, a mechanism by which an investor can leverage his or her purchase of stock. Another reason why Irish stocks, such as the financials, have been harder hit than their international peers is the relative illiquidity of this market. If a big seller decided to get out, it can have a big effect on the price. 
