stocks
{  
    January 31 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/staying-on-track-for-early-turnout-26406834.html }
GETTING stock out to grass early in spring gives better animal performance than indoors, reduces the winter feed requirement resulting in lower feed costs, less slurry to handle, lower machinery costs in feeding and slurry spreading and a reduced labour requirement. The priority stock for early turnout are the forward store cattle that normally take almost the full grazing season to get to slaughter weight, having being turned out some time in April. Forward store cattle being fed on silage, or silage plus 1-2kg meal where silage quality is low, are likely to be gaining at most 0.5kg per day in the shed. Where there is an adequate supply of grass this type of animal can gain at 1.25kg liveweight per day (estimated 0.85kg carcase) for the first 100 days after turnout. Early turnout of at least a proportion of the more forward stores has the capacity to get these cattle finished in the June/July period at a much lower cost than indoor diets and at a higher price than later in the summer and autumn. While it is impossible to predict prices more than a few weeks ahead we can be sure that the normal trough in prices will occur in the autumn and that mid-summer prices will be substantially higher than the autumn. Last year there was an early fall in price which began around mid-June and accelerated in July. This was blamed on high Brazilian imports to the UK and a higher level of UK and Irish supplies in June. If the foot-and-mouth ban on Brazilian imports remains, the seasonal fall in price should be delayed until significantly higher supplies occur in late summer and autumn. Early turnout helps capture the full potential of the Irish climatic conditions to produce beef more competitively from grass and, through earlier slaughter, achieve a higher price. While the most benefit of earlier turnout will be got from finishing cattle, all livestock farmers should aim to rebalance the proportion of lifetime gain produced from grazed grass rather than from silage and concentrates. Turnout date The appropriate turnout date depends on the amount of grass available (grass cover in kg DM/ha), the stocking rate (herd demand kg DM/day) and the soil type and weather conditions. Successful management of early turnout requires (i) drawing up a grass budget which balances the grass available to the stocking rate (herd demand), (ii) having the silage ground available for grazing up to early April, (ii) gradual turnout as grass supply increases, which ensures there is less risk of grass shortage in poor growth conditions and less poaching in wet conditions. The grass supply at present depends on closing date, weather and sward type. If fields were closed from late October and swards are predominantly ryegrass there will be 6-8cms of grass cover available. Up to last week the winter has been almost frost-free, which was reflected in the 10cm soil temperatures being 1.5 to 2.0 degrees above the 30-year January average and close to the 6.0 degree threshold for grass growth. On free-draining soils where the silage ground has been closed since late October a stocking rate of two forward stores per ha is possible during March. I will return to grass budgeting in more detail closer to turnout dates. Nitrogen Besides closing date, sward type and weather, the other major ingredient in the production of early grass is nitrogen. This topic, following the publication of the recent Nitrates Regulations, could take a full textbook to cover rather than a short article. It is now more difficult to give simple guidelines on nitrogen use as one must take into account the nitrogen production from the stock (stocking rate) and slurry storage periods. A separate calculation is required for each farm circumstance. Drystock farmers mostly fall within the REPS nitrogen limits with stocking rates varying between 1.4 and 1.9 livestock units per hectare. At these stocking rates they are limited to about 73-125kg N/ha (58-100 units/ac). Consult your Teagasc adviser for assistance in calculating the limits relating to your farm. Care has to be taken to allocate the allowable nitrogen between silage and grazing throughout the year. Even at low stocking rates, nitrogen for spring grass has always been a priority with clover supplying nitrogen later in the year. It will be possible to allocate a small amount of nitrogen, i.e. 20 units/ac (0.5 bags urea) for early grass on fields with suitable grass cover for nitrogen uptake. Where there are high grass covers at present and if stocking rate is low (less than 1.5 LU/ha) it may be better to graze off the available grass in March and save the nitrogen for later. Opportunities to spread nitrogen can be quite limited in early spring. Ideally you need 2-3 days without heavy rain after application. 
