stocks
{  
    March 07 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/investments-irish-etf-has-done-the-business-a-rise-of-31pc-26392817.html }
INVESTORS who put money into a fund that invests in the 20 most liquid stocks on the Irish market have seen the value of the fund rise by 31pc since it was launched in April last year. THE ISEQ 20 ETF (Exchange Traded Fund) is advertised as a low-cost way to gain exposure to the Irish Stock Market. The fund has also been described as a way of buying 20 Irish stocks in a single share. ETFs offer an entry to the Irish market, with a 0.5pc charge covering all management and service provider fees, as well as the costs of operating the ETF. Dividends are paid on a semi-annual basis, but there may be stamp duty of 1pc on the underlying securities. According to the Irish Stock Exchange, the charging structure is "significantly lower" than the fees charged by managed funds and other tracker products in the Irish market. Normal commissions charged by stockbrokers will still have to be paid. Exchange Traded Funds are similar to trackers and unit funds, but differ as they can be traded on the market and there is no bid/offer spread cost. The ISEQ 20 ETF invests in a portfolio of the 20 largest stocks on the Dublin market. The investment objective of the ISEQ 20 ETF is to replicate the performance of the Irish Stock Exchange's ISEQ 20 Index. It may hold up to 20pc of its value in a single stock, and will adjust the stocks from time to time to reflect changes in the ISEQ. NCB promotes and manages the fund, with the fund's operation overseen by former Central Bank Governor Maurice O'Connell. The ISEQ 20 is listed and traded in the same way as other stocks on the official list, and can be bought and sold at any time during trading. Launched at around ?12 in April 2005, the ETF shares are currently trading at ?15.71, a rise of 31pc since the fund's launch in April last year. The concept of ETFs has been floating around the world's markets for years, but was never tried in Ireland until last year. With 47pc of the profits of the top 20 ISEQ stocks coming from Ireland, some analysts believe that the strong performance is set to continue, as these companies benefit from their exposure to the fast-growing Irish economy. The fund has performed strongly since it was launched (tracking the market), but analysts warn that there are no guarantees it will continue to rise. 
