stocks
{  
    September 08 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/turbulent-times-over-fears-of-a-recession-stateside-26316535.html }
IT was another turbulent period for the Dublin stock market this week with financial stocks in particular beaten up by bad news both at home and from the US. The ISEQ Overall Index which measures the movement of the market as a whole fell 216 points or 1.5pc over the week to 8,188 points from 8,401 at the end of last week. Within that decline was a 2.3pc slump on Wednesday and a rebound on Thursday. The ISEQ Financial Index was down a whopping 481 points, or 3.5pc on the week, whereas the general (or non-financial) stocks were down only 110 points or 1.8pc. Small cap stocks ended the week higher while the ITEQ index, which measures the price movements of technology stocks, was up marginally. "The market ended the week badly beaten by the non farm payroll figures from the US which led to fears of recession and hammered everything in sight," said Stuart Draper head of research at Dolmen Stockbrokers. Mr Draper noted, however, that seasoned investors -- some clients of 25 years standing -- were buying shares. "Any share buying that is being done by institutions is pension funds etc as the foreign institutions have exited the Irish market." Reflecting the good performance by the techie stocks, Davy Stockbrokers said they regard Horizon Technology shares as undervalued compared to its peers. In a research note they said that first half revenue of e146.31m was slightly ahead of their forecast of e44.5m, with EBITDA 10pc ahead of expectations. "Based on the growth to date and future prospects for both the Irish service-based business and the UK infrastructure-oriented business, we feel that the stock is undervalued compared to its peers", Davys said. Davys reiterated their 140c price target, 44pc above current price. "Ryanair was one stock which held up well against the selling," Mr Draper added. Ryanair announced that it is to launch a new base from Belfast City Airport from the end of October. Its initial move there will be modest in scale, involving one aircraft and four routes, one of which is a new announcement (to London Stansted, and which will replace Air Berlin's withdrawal) and three of which were previously announced and are routes to three Ryanair provincial UK bases which are being operated by aircraft from those bases. Merrion Stockbrokers' John Mattimoe and Killian Jones said that "given the modest size of Ryanair's capacity addition in this move together with Air Berlin's withdrawal from Belfast, the move so far does not represent a significant step up in the level of competition in the Belfast market. Looking at a route overlap basis, the move appears a bigger challenge to easyJet than to Aer Lingus (both of which will operate from Belfast International) and to some extent to Bmi (which serves London Heathrow from Belfast City). Financial markets remained in a cautious mood last week with volatility continuing to be priced at the upper end of its range and the money and credit markets struggling to complete what until recently would have been seen as the most basic of operations. Davy stockbrokers noted that corporate experience has been very different. In contrast to the markets, the experience "on the ground" of most companies continues to be very positive. At the aggregate level, that is most obvious from the continuing upgrading of earnings estimates for the major indices. "Perhaps, for Irish investors, the most obvious manifestation of this contrast in fortunes has been the experience reported by the Irish corporate sector over the recent results season," Davy said. "Take the experience of the top 10 companies for example. Over the last month or so, six of these companies have reported interim results and a seventh, Anglo Irish Bank, produced a very upbeat trading statement last week. "There are some considerable headwinds blowing, both internationally and domestically. It may seem very brave to consider buying equities into those sorts of storms, but there is some compelling value out there for longer-term investors," the brokers said. FBD Holdings was raised to "buy" from "add" by analyst Anna Lalor at Goodbody Stockbrokers. The price target is €34.50 per share. In London fears over a possible US recession saw the London market fall nearly 2pc yesterday in a dramatic finish to the week's trading. The FTSE 100 Index tumbled 122.1 points to 6191.2 as payroll data showed the first fall in US employment in four years during August. The figures -- much worse than expected -- brought home fears over the wider impact of the default crisis in US sub-prime mortgages, with big falls seen in construction and manufacturing employment. Wall Street's Dow Jones Industrial Average was more than 200 points down in early trading as the figures strengthened the prospects of a rate cut from the US Federal Reserve later this month. In London, only six stocks finished in positive territory in the gloomy finish to the week. Airline British Airways -- a firm with heavy exposure to the health of the US economy -- was the Footsie's biggest faller, losing more than 5pc, or 22.75p, to 395.25p. Financial stocks were also on the back foot amid fears over exposure to the US sub-prime mortgage market. Barclays fell more than 4pc, or 25.5p, to 582.5p, as uncertainties regarding its takeover bid for Dutch bank ABN Amro also saw investors turn their backs on the shares. 
