stocks
{  
    July 09 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/fishing-revival-on-lough-derg-27439705.html }
Anglers on Lough Derg claim the recent Mayfly season has been the best in 20 years. Peter Gleeson reports on how the lake has been transformed after years of neglect Anglers blamed pollution and lack of stocking for a decline in catches that got progressively worse in the 1980s and 1990s, but the situation now, thankfully, seems to be in reverse, with good fishing reported for the last three years. In a number of cases angling clubs around the lake cancelled fishing competitions because catches were so poor. Prizes for competitions were even raffled when fishermen returned empty handed after an entire day’s fishing on the lake. Sadly, it seemed that the unique genetic species that is the Lough Derg trout was facing extinction. The beautiful fish, said to inhabit the lake since the last Ice Age 10,000 years ago, was threatened with total wipe-out. In the space of just two decades man’s total disregard for the pristine lake transformed it into a giant basin of pea-green water. When Ireland joined the EU the farming sector boomed and the lake became the repository for slurry and fertilizer run-offs. Huge amounts of raw sewage from the booming towns along the Shannon network exacerbated the problem. The trout, which needs clean water to survive, looked like being a distant memory. The collapse of stocks totally frustrated and angered angling clubs around the lake, which finally decided to take action themselves to save the native trout. They were aided and abetted by the establishment in Nenagh of a voluntary group called Save Our Lough Derg (SOLD), which successfully campaigned both for a national policy aimed at upgrading sewage plants in towns and villages in the Shannon catchment and for stricter environmental control measures on farms. Experts now acknowledge that Government policies to restore the water quality in the once-pristine lake has created a healthier environment for fish life to thrive. Indeed, the members of North Tipperary County Council played a significant role in the campaign by introducing anti-pollution by-laws in the face of strong opposition from the powerful farmers lobby. However, the voluntary efforts of angling clubs cannot be underestimated in the revival of stocks. Under the guidance of the Lough Derg Anglers Association, the various clubs dotted around the lake in Clare, North Tipperary and Galway have in recent years embarked on a five-year programme of rehabilitating the streams and rivers flowing into the lake. Numerous little waterways, devastated by decades of indiscriminate dredging, have been restored to create an ideal environment for the trout to spawn. One particular project to which anglers are attributing the stock revival to is a trout hatchery established four years ago by the Scariff-Mountshannon-Whitegate Angling Club. The hatchery has reared approximately 800,000 juvenile trout, which have been used to stock a host of rivers and streams flowing into the lake in North Tipperary, Clare and Galway. The evidence of the work of the Co Clare club is now paying rich dividends, with anglers reporting bumper catches of trout during the recent Mayfly season. “The trout catches were so bad that we decided we had to do something instead of just talking about it,” says John Collins, Secretary of the Scariff-Mountshannon-Whitegate Angling Club. “We had given up running fishing competitions as a bad job, so we felt we had no option but to build a hatchery ourselves.” John says anglers had for years being urging the ESB to stock the lake and adjoining rivers, but they met with little success. With the help of funding from Clare LEADER, and expert backup from the Shannon Regional Fisheries Board, the club built the ?38,000 hatchery on a site beside a little stream in the rural townland of Cappabane, four miles form Mountshannon. Adult trout are taken from local waterways in October and November and stripped of their eggs, which are then hatched out in the hatchery. The entire process up to the release of the juvenile fish back into the wild takes about four months. The effort involves a team of 14 club members working on a rota system on a voluntary basis for a few hours every night to ensure the operation is carried out smoothly. The volunteers have to ensure that the temperature of the water is kept stable as the trout fry are highly sensitive to variations. The work also involves a tedious nightly process of identifying unviable eggs from the thousands placed in big holding tanks and taking them out individually with glass pipettes for dumping. When the baby fish hatch they are kept in the tanks which incorporate a natural gravel bottom to simulate the natural environment of the stream. The hatchery is supplied with a constant water flow from a natural ground supply and there is a back-up system from the nearby stream in case things go wrong. John Collins, who has been instrumental in the setting up of the scheme with the hard working club chairman, Michael Waterstone, says the fry are so sensitive that even the vibrations from a slammed door could kill an entire year’s hatch. That is one of the reasons why the hatchery was built in a quite and secluded rural environment. “What we are trying to do here is just give nature a little helping hand,” comments John. One adult trout weighing a pound and a half has the ability to produce 700 eggs in a season. However, the loss rate is extremely high and the hatchery consider themselves lucky even if 5% of their fry survive to the adult fish stage. “Even if only 2.5% of the 800,000 fry we produced over the last four years survived you are still talking about 20,000 trout...and that’s a lot of trout,” says John. He reckons it takes about two years for a half-inch sized fry released in the wild to reach the one pound weight mark. “So there is a direct correlation between what we are doing here and the improved fishing. It’s a great success.” The hatchery produces 200,000 fry each year, but it has the capacity to double that output and is working towards that target. The facility is licensed by the Department of the Marine and is subject to stringent standards of operation. In the past the hatchery has relied heavily on the fishery board for its egg producing adult stock, which have been sourced in Lough Owl in Westmeath, but this coming season the volunteers will net fish on rivers in the three counties surrounding the lake and strip them of the eggs on site before immediately releasing them back into their natural habitats. The Shannon trout, such as the Croneen which abounds in the Little Brosna in Offaly, has a specific genetic print that makes it unique from other species of trout found in other waterways. The hatchery is keen to preserve the genetic integrity of local stocks by using fish in the Shannon system to produce the fry. Come next December or January the volunteers from the hatchery will be coming to waterways such as the Nenagh River to release this year’s crop. That can only mean good news for anglers in North Tipperary who have been calling for greater stocking of local rivers for many years. John firmly believes the produce from the hatchery, combined with the stream and river rehabilitation, is now resulting in increasing catches for anglers. He praises local farmers who, he said, were becoming increasingly aware of the lethal consequences farm run-offs could have for fish life. “Once upon a time we had seven silage pits along the course of the Bow River in East Clare. Now we have none there.” John’s only fear now is the exotic Zebra Mussel which has infested Lough Derg since it was brought in on the bottoms of foreign boats in the mid-1990s. These tiny creatures, which have multiplied in billions, feed on the zoo plankton that is a vital component in the diet of juvenile fish. The short term future looks bright for trout stocks on Lough Derg, but only time will tell if the mussels pose further problems ahead. 
