stocks
{  
    June 07 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/its-the-end-of-the-line-for-our-fishing-industry-warns-film-26541832.html }
TOMORROW, the first ever World Ocean Day, is the day that makers of a new film which is already making waves have cannily chosen for its global release. A film documentary, The End of the Line, reveals that hi-tech superfishing is emptying out our oceans so that there are, in fact, no longer plenty more fish in the sea. It opens with an account of the devastating collapse of cod fish stocks in waters around Canada's Newfoundland in the early Nineties. Twenty years later, there has been little recovery. Ireland would do well to take note. On this side of the Atlantic, "cod stocks have virtually collapsed in the Irish Sea, where there is little sign of recovery," the Irish Marine Institute reported on launching its 2008 stock book. "Cod stocks in the Celtic Sea also remain below sustainable levels." Whiting, haddock and plaice are in diminished supply as well, though lucrative mackerel stocks have grown by one-third. Up to 75 per cent of fish species in Irish waters are being fished beyond sustainability, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) says. Ireland exports around €360m of fish per annum, with the annual catch totalling 210,000 tonnes, plus 60,000 tonnes for farmed fish and seafood. The vast bulk -- 78 per cent -- is exported to countries such as Spain, where it commands higher prices. Paradoxically, two-thirds of fish eaten in Ireland are imported. The (overfished) Dublin Bay prawns in Dublin's eateries are as likely to have come from Asia as Dublin Bay. Supermarket fresh-fish counters have no obligation to label fish origins. Now retired, Joey Murrin headed the Killybegs Fishermen's Organisation for over 20 years, chaired BIM and the Marine Institute, was involved in various government commissions and fished out of the port of Killybegs, Co Donegal, for 40 years. "We're in denial regarding the state of Irish fish stocks and until people accept the problem, it's not going to improve," he warns. "A lot of our stocks are in amber, or below sufficient stock level, and will become severely depleted." That said, he adds that if we weren't overfishing our own waters, you can be sure the Dutch, the Spanish or someone else's fleet would be. Overfishing is rife everywhere. One of the most wasteful practices is the netting of juvenile and surplus fish, which are then thrown back in the water. EU data says that one kilo is thrown back, usually dead, for every kilo kept. "Over the last 10 years, whitefish fishermen have been discarding 60 per cent of their catch over the side of the boat," Murrin admits. The Government's response to the sector's struggles has been to buy trawler owners out of the business. Some €38m is being spent on decommissioning 75 vessels, with payouts averaging €700,000 per vessel owner, plus a tax break for those boat owners who are over 45 years of age. Aid of €65.5m came from the EU with the Government putting in €17m on over 850 projects and investments in the sector between 2000 and 2006. Now the new European Fisheries Fund has earmarked €42.5m for Irish fishing between 2007 and 2013. The priority of this initiative, however, is further fleet decommissioning buyouts. Things weren't always so bleak. Killybegs had a golden era in the Eighties and Nineties. "We didn't really experience the Haughey era of tightening the belts and mass unemployment," says Siobhan McFadden, who grew up in Killybegs. "Young boys [working in fishing] in their early 20s would have been on serious money, which meant a great lifestyle for them and the knock-on effect for local retailers and services." Others tell of 17-year-olds buying top-of-the-range BMWs, writing them off and simply buying another. Palatial mansions were built. Some big fishing families had a status akin to the Rockefellers locally. Skippers were more likely to be found onshore wearing business suits than on a boat in oilskins. During this time, Killybegs-based fishing magnate Kevin McHugh built the world's biggest supertrawler, the Atlantic Dawn, a colossal floating fish factory costing €70m. "Two or three lorries of fish left for Dublin every night," Murrin recalls. "Now there's not one." Now in fishing ports on the coasts of Kerry, Wexford, Galway and Donegal, more and more fish industry workers are signing on the live register. In the face of shrinking stocks, cheaper substitutes are emerging. At the Volvo Ocean Race festival in Galway, one stand advertised King Prawnies -- processed prawn lookalikes made from the much cheaper surimi, a minced fish paste flavoured, coloured and shaped to look like big prawns or crab sticks. Centuries old in Japan, it is a recent arrival in the west. While the London restaurant Nobu has been plagued by protests for keeping the endangered blue fin tuna on its menu, Irish fish-loving consumers are still largely unaware or unconcerned that they may be eating their way through fish and seafood species on the brink of extinction, with many scarce fish still available on menus and fresh fish counters. As fish favourites become rarer, producers are marketing formerly unheard of varieties, such as orange ruffy, cardinal or hoki. Someone, somewhere along the route from net to plate, is making a great margin on fish. Haddock, for example, at Rossaveal's market can sell for as little as a euro a box. Haddock and chips in Beshoff's chip shops in Dublin is priced at just over €8. On menus of restaurants such as Roly's and the Ritz Carlton, haddock starters run to around €10 and entrees are in the region of €25. The European Commission is set to radically overhaul the Common Fishing Policy, which has been acknowledged to have failed the fishing industry in many ways. The Irish Federation of Fishermen is also planning its Total Reform Initiative. "All we can do is try to hold what we have," Joey Murrin says. "Now it's absolutely vital that mackerel stocks that are stable and in supply must be managed." Permanent or long-term no-fish zones are recommended by the EPA and Marine Institute, but would likely result in uproar in the industry if enforced. Yet without effective action, commercial fishing may be dead in the water within a couple of generations, if the message in The End of the Line is to be believed. 
