stocks
{ John Donworth 
    March 24 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/is-the-stock-bull-the-answer-26523483.html }
The bull sales are just about to get going. All the bulls will be looking well and more luck to the sellers who will be hoping to maximise their investment. Some of the black and white bulls will have high EBIs and the sellers will be using this to maximise the selling price. Other black and white bulls will have low EBIs and this fact obviously won't be mentioned. These bulls will be sold purely on their looks. Why do dairy farmers continue to buy black and white stock bulls at the expense of using AI? I have dealt with this issue all my working life and I must say I have had some small wins in moving farmers over to AI, but by and large, the use of stock bulls continues. This is in spite of all the evidence that it is much more profitable to milking a dairy herd that is AI bred, rather than one that is stock bull bred. I have heard all the reasons why the stock bull is the way to go. I will quote a selection of the reasons to you: They are just a flavour of the excuses I hear in the field. But, what's in it for a dairy farmer who decides to switch from a black and white stock bull to AI? The short answer is a more profitable dairy herd. Generally, black and white stock bulls have plenty of milk in them, but I wouldn't go as far as to say it is always the case. Will they deliver increases in fat and protein percent year on year? Will they deliver the type of durability we want in our dairy cows over the next five years? The answer to the above two areas is that stock bulls will not deliver on these two areas on a consistent basis over time. Dairy farmers, who use AI, do so knowing that, over time, they are going to increase the genetic merit of their herd. Of course, they must make the right bull choices to achieve their objectives, if they are to maximise the rate of genetic gain. In March 2005, Donagh Berry, geneticist in Moorepark, stated that the average EBI of stock bulls was €8.29. The average EBI of the bulls on the AI active list at the time was €75.93. The average EBI of the 75 bulls on the active list in 2009 is €157, an increase of €81 since 2005. The EBI of the bulls on the active list has increased by €20 this year, due in no small part to the genomic bulls. So, where does that leave the average EBI of the stock bull in 2009? Is it as high as €150? I doubt it. I would estimate about €35 to €40. Remember, the EBI of the active list is €157. This means that, on average, daughters of these bulls will leave €157 more profit per lactation than the average for the Holstein Friesian breed. The big issue with stock bulls is the reliability of the data. While many have decent EBI data, the reliability of the figures is a problem. Donagh Berry, in the same paper delivered in March 2005, estimated that the average reliability of the stock bull was 44pc. This means that the data could be right, but it also means that the data could be wrong. In other words, the performance of the daughter progeny of a stock bull will be all over the place, whereas using a bull with 90pc reliability means that one will have way more consistency in the performance of the daughters. But one could argue that in last week's article I recommended the widespread use of genomic bulls and these have a reliability of only 50pc. Fair point, but then I was recommending that you use a team of five to six bulls to increase data reliability. Yes, you can do the same with the stock bull and improve the reliability of the data, but you would have to purchase five to six of them and rotate them within the herd. Now, there is a thought to gladden the heart of any man selling dairy stock bulls. One other very important issue about stock bulls and this refers to beef stock bulls as well. What is the PI (persistently infected) status of the bull? This is a major BVD issue and the PI bull in close contact with dairy cows doesn't bear thinking about. Any bull bought for the coming breeding season should not be bought without his PI status being established. And if he is bought without it, he should be quarantined for three weeks until the test is done. Enfer Scientific will carry out a test for around €5.50, plus €13 for the tagger. This test will establish the PI status of the bull. Let the buyer beware. 
