stocks
{ Pat Boyle 
    December 27 2007 04:53 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/stocks-take-a-tumble-in-wake-of-poor-sales-forecast-26341084.html }
US stocks fell yesterday afternoon after a US retailer cut its December sales forecast and a private report showed a sharp drop in prices of existing US single-family homes in October. On Walls St, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 38.12 points, or 0.28pc, but dealers said trading volume was light following the Christmas holiday. All of the major markets in Europe remained closed yesterday. On Christmas Eve, Dublin stocks posted a moderate 61 point, or 0.89pc, rise to leave the ISEQ still stuck below the 7,000 barrier as we enter the final trading days of 2007. Peaked Assuming there is no great change in the markets over the days to Monday, then it is expected that Dublin stocks will post one of their worst performances ever, with the ISEQ down by about 25pc over the course of the year. The decline is even greater since February, when the Dublin market peaked at well over 10,000 points. Analysts have been closely monitoring the US consumer for signs of flagging spending, which could send the economy into a recession and stocks into a tailspin. Investor optimism about US stocks dropped for the first time in a month as the slowest holiday shopping season since 2002 bolstered concern the economy is slowing, according to an Investors Intelligence survey. The percentage of investment newsletter writers who were bullish fell to 54.9pc in the week ended December 21 from 56.5pc the prior week, New Rochelle, New York-based Investors Intelligence said. The percentage of bearish, or pessimistic, writers rose to 23.1pc from 22.2pc. The proportion of those surveyed who said they expect a so-called correction, or 10pc slide, in the stock market during the next year increased for the first time in a month, climbing to 22pc. Holiday sales at US retailers declined for the third straight week as winter storms and rising gasoline prices discouraged shoppers, ShopperTrak RCT Corp said. The National Retail Federation in Washington said sales may rise 4pc in November and December, the slowest in five years. Some technical analysts, who try to predict stock moves based on statistics such as price patterns and volume, track investor sentiment as a contrarian indicator. Increased bearishness may suggest stocks will rise because investors who view the market unfavourably may have already sold shares. 
