stocks
{  
    March 17 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/anglers-say-lough-derg-fish-stocks-have-collapsed-27451779.html }
by Peter Gleeson First it was the trout that virtually disappered from Lough Derg - but now it seems the once renowned pike fishing is almost gone too. Lough Derg Anglers Association has warned that the decline in fish stocks in the lake could have profound implications for the local tourism sector because it claims visiting anglers are being turned off by poor catches. Speaking to the Guardian after the Association’s agm in Nenagh on Wednesday night last, Chairman, Joe O’ Donoghue said catches of pike and trout were “way down” during the fishing season last year. “The fish stocks have really collapsed. Even pike stocks were seriously low comapred to two or three years ago.” said Mr O’ Donoghue. He said “slight improvement” in trout fishing at the Killaloe end of the lake may be attributed to stocking programmes being conducted by anglers who set up their own hatchery in Scariff two years ago. However, catches recorded further north in areas like Dromineer, Terryglass, Garrykennedy and Portumna were very low. He said the Government should order a comprehensive study to determine the state of fish stocks in the lake. Anglers were anxious to find out why catches were so low, said Mr O’ Donoghue, adding that “the general feeling is that stocks have declined dramatically.” “One theory is that the lake is being over-fished. People who cater for visiting anglers have been embarrased over the last number of years when they see their customers returning with no fish. They are beginning to run out of excuses for the poor fishing - visitors have spent two weeks fishing and caught only two pike.” Mr O’ Donoghue said his Association, and the Puckane Anglers Club, have not run any fishing competitions for the past two years because it was becoming embarrassing due to the low catches. In some competitions, no fish were caught and prizes were raffled. “The Mayfly Season used to be the highlight of the year in this area, but now most of the keen anglers have abandoned the lake and instead undertake the 180-mile round trip to the Corrib to get decent trout fishing. “You’re talking about a huge number of anglers going to the Corrib in May because Lough Derg has been flogged to death “It’s sad when you see the potential of Lough Derg. The local economy is really losing out from valuable tourism revenue. You only have look and see how the people around Lough Corrib have got it right. Every hotel and bed and breakfeast is full with anglers who are spending money in the area.” Mr O’ Donoghue said the ESB, the company responsible for the Shannon fishery, had carried out a four year study which indicated that the numbers of the species in Lough Derg were at “a critically low level”. A fish counter installed at Ballyartella on the Nenagh River a few years ago had shown that trout numbers had declined dramatically. One way of helping to revive stocks would be to conduct a comprehensive programme of rehabilitation on streams and tributaries of the lake to enhance spawning conditions for trout. Such action had been shown to increase stocks by as much as seven fold in a two year period, said Mr O’ Donoghue. However, he added that the ESB did not seem to have the commitment to do the necessary work, and the Shannon Fisheries Board did not have the necessary budget. “We are falling between two stools when it comes getting the work done.” 
