stocks
{ Patrick Lawless 
    November 29 2014 01:59 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/sharp-slips-in-oil-prices-doesnt-mean-stocks-start-sliding-30784493.html }
We've seen sharp falls in world oil prices. Some effects are obvious - cheaper petrol and a higher share price for Ryanair and other airlines - but the less obvious effects could be much more profound.   Few would have foreseen even a few months ago that oil prices were about to fall so quickly and so substantially. Brent Crude prices, the industry benchmark, are down about a third from their June peak in US dollar terms and in euro terms. This is a very significant fall in the context of oil price movements over the past decade. Going back to 2010 Brent Crude had rarely broken out of a range between $90 and $110, having peaked at an all-time high of $145 in 2008. Last week, it was below $72. What is the impact of a sharp drop in the oil price? In simple terms, it means oil producers are worse off and oil consumers are better off - a transfer of wealth from one group to the other. Global oil exports are about 40 million barrels a day. The $30-plus drop that we have seen in Brent since June, if it persists for 12 months, would mean a transfer of $400bn from oil exporters to oil importers. Does this impact on economic growth? Absolutely - and for the better. Energy analysts say oil-consuming countries are more likely to spend their income more quickly than oil exporters. This means the benefits of better conditions for oil consumers are greater than the drawbacks for oil producers. The net effect on global growth is positive. A $30 drop could add up to 0.5pc to global growth. Here in the Eurozone we spend about 3pc of our GDP on net oil imports so will see a benefit. Even the US, which only imports a relatively small share of oil, will still see a net gain. For financial markets, lower energy prices are in aggregate a positive, because they boost growth and dampen inflation. This means a better demand environment for many producers coupled with lower production costs. Goldman Sachs, for example, have estimated that oil at $80 per barrel, compared to its level for the first half of the year, is the equivalent of an additional 4pc growth in profits for S&P 500 companies for 2014 and even higher growth in 2015. In essence, consumers will get an extra $70bn to spend. This increase in consumer spending will comfortably outweigh an estimated $40bn reduction in investment by US oil companies. The drop in petrol prices alone will boost consumers' wallets by an average of €400 a year if prices stay at current levels. This is great news for companies who benefit from increased consumer spending. In the US, stocks such as Bed, Bath & Beyond (a home fittings retailer) and Walmart - the chain that also owns Asda in the UK, are obvious candidates that are well-placed to profit from increased consumer spending. Bed, Bath & Beyond shares are up over 20pc since oil prices began their fall in June; Walmart shares are up 12pc. Appian funds own both stocks. A better consumer environment is also a positive backdrop for stocks like Nestle (whose brands include KitKat chocolate bars, Friskies cat food and Nespresso). While there are a lot of moving parts in a stock like Nestle, it is a stock that is also well-placed to benefit from a stronger consumer and one that we are comfortable to invest in at present. But if lower oil prices are good for consumer stocks, are they bad for oil producers? Not necessarily. Of course the energy sector faces headwinds but it is worth noting that major companies such as Shell, with strong cash flows and efficient production profiles, are well-positioned to cope with the turbulence. Shell's shares have done significantly better than the oil price itself during this recent sharp fall off. But the benefits of lower oil prices aren't confined to individual stocks. They also have a huge role to play in fostering better economic growth and keeping inflation down - which in turn helps to strengthen the case for interest rates staying lower for longer. The biggest impact from lower oil prices is likely to be in the Eurozone, Japan or China - economies where growth is badly needed and there is sufficient slack for growth without triggering higher interest rates. As for interest rate policy, there's clearly a trade-off between this stronger growth potential and less inflationary pressure from the cost side. Less inflationary pressure allows policy makers more flexibility in managing interest rates. While policy makers tend to look to 'core' measures of price pressure that exclude energy costs, even these 'core' inflation rates will see an indirect impact from lower energy prices. In general, low energy prices are a supporting tail-wind for financial markets and good news for investors. It would be naive to say these dynamics will not change - but, broadly speaking, incremental moves are not an issue. Today investors find themselves at one with Saudi Arabia's oil minister Ali al-Naimi who is working hard to ensure "price stability". It's a phrase that ECB watchers will be familiar with - and one few would have expected from the oil markets until recently. Investors in consumer stocks may find themselves very pleased to witness it. Patrick Lawless is CEO of Appian Asset Management. The views expressed do not constitute investment advice or research Sunday Indo Business 
