stocks
{ Louise McBride 
    August 12 2012 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/bravehearted-investors-can-cast-an-eye-back-to-europe-26886044.html }
EARLIER this month, ECB boss Mario Draghi announced a plan to rescue the euro after promising he would do "whatever it takes" to save the beleaguered currency. Although stock markets seemed initially disappointed in Draghi's plan, there are some signs that investors have taken comfort from it. If you believe there's optimism in the air -- and you're sitting on a wad of savings, now could be the time to dip your toe in the stock markets or other investments. The Sunday Independent lined up some top investment advisers to give their thoughts on investments worth considering -- both by the brave and the faint-hearted. We asked the advisers to recommend investment products for an investor with €10,000 or €100,000 to spare.  INVESTMENTS FOR THE FAINT-HEARTED  €10,000 lump sum If you have €10,000 to invest and you don't want to take any chances, a good home for it is the three-year savings bond from Ireland's State Savings, says Vincent Digby, founder of the financial advisers Impartial, and a former head of funding with BoI Global Markets. This bond pays 3.23 per cent interest tax-free so if you invest €10,000 in the savings bond for three years, you'll pocket €1,000 interest. "I prefer this shorter-term State Savings product to the longer-term products in case inflation picks up," said Digby. There is also a five-and-a-half-year savings cert which pays 3.53 per cent interest a year tax-free -- or €2,100 interest on €10,000 after five-and-a-half years. The 10-year National Solidarity Bond pays the highest interest of all the State Savings schemes. The interest rate after tax works out at 3.93 per cent a year -- so if you leave your €10,000 in the bond for 10 years, you'll earn €4,700 interest. There is also a four-year National Solidarity Bond -- which pays 3.29 per cent interest a year after tax. After four years, the interest on €10,000 adds up to €1,380. There are no investment charges on State Savings accounts -- although you have to pay DIRT (Deposit Interest Retention Tax -- tax on the interest earned on savings) on the National Solidarity Bonds.  €100,000 lump sum Digby recommends KBC's Secure Income Plus Account Series 12 for the risk averse. This is a capital guaranteed deposit account where the interest earned on part of your savings is linked to the performance of the EuroStoxx 50 stock market index. The EuroStoxx 50 index includes the 50 biggest firms in the eurozone. You must tie up your money in this account for five years. "The annual return on this account is 4 per cent -- with the potential of earning a 1 per cent bonus when the account matures," said Digby. This 1 per cent bonus is only paid if the performance of the EuroStoxx 50 index is better at the date your account matures than it was when you first opened it. "The fees are 0.4 per cent a year, which is very competitive," said Digby. Gary Hanrahan, managing director of the financial advisers, Capital Options, also recommends some KBC deposit accounts for a cautious investor with €100,000 to invest. These accounts are the Smart Access Demand Deposit Account, which pays 3.25 per cent interest on savings of up to €100,000, and the Top-Up 1-year fixed-rate deposit account, which pays 4.1 per cent interest. INVESTMENTS FOR THE BRAVE-HEARTED  €10,000 lump sum An Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) is an investment fund which tracks the performance of a bunch of stocks. Digby believes it is better to invest in an ETF than in one particular stock. By doing so, you are not putting all of your eggs in the one basket, thereby reducing the risk. "For the moment, we favour non-euro investments -- and in particular US dollar-based investments," said Digby. "We like technology ETFs and we are starting to consider ETFs that invest in housing in the US. "We can't predict what the future returns on these investments are likely to be, but Zurich Life has a Top Tech 100 fund which replicates the Nasdaq-100 index (a stock market index which includes a lot of US technology stocks). The investment return on that Top Tech 100 fund is up more than 20 per cent year to date." If you're happy to take a bit of risk, New Ireland's Protected Assets Fund is worth considering, says Hanrahan. This fund invests your money in five stock market indices -- EuroStoxx 50, FTSE 100, S&P 500, Nikkei 225 and MSCI Emerging Markets. "During times of market volatility, this fund increases its exposure to cash to protect the value of the fund," said Hanrahan. "When markets are stable, the fund increases its exposure to the five stock market indices to increase the potential for growth." To increase your chances of making money on the Protected Assets Fund, you must tie up your €10,000 for at least five years. This fund made an investment return of 2.6 per cent in the first seven months of the year -- and has a typical annual fund management charge of 1.75 per cent. However, unless the investment return on this fund gets a lot higher than 2.6 per cent, you could make more money on a high-interest deposit account.  €100,000 lump sum If you're prepared to take a bit of risk with a €100,000 investment, Hanrahan recommends the Investec Kick Out Account. With this account, you must invest your money for five years. One of the advantages of the account is that it offers 100 per cent capital protection. This means that when your investment matures, at the very least, you will get back what you originally invested in the account. This in itself is not a reason to invest a lot of money, as inflation will eat into the value of an investment that does not increase in value over time. However, the Kick Out Account also gives you the chance to make an investment return of 5.25 per cent a year by investing in the EuroStoxx 50 index. You will only make that investment return if the EuroStoxx 50 index does well. If the index performs really well on particular dates, you also have the chance to cash in your investment earlier than expected -- without incurring any penalties. Ross Curran, managing director of Curran Financial Services, believes that if you have €100,000 to invest, it is worth taking a bet on the iShares EuroStoxx 50 ETF or the EuroStoxx ex-Financial ETF. "There is a sentiment that European companies are currently significantly undervalued so access to potential growth of these companies through the likes of iShares Eurostoxx fund might be of interest to some," said Curran. iShares (ishares.com) are a family of ETF's managed by Blackrock. Some financial advisers, however, don't believe the time is right to invest in European shares just yet. "Eurozone equities have significantly underperformed US equities and, in time, this will present a strong value proposition for eurozone equities -- but in our opinion, not for now," says Digby. Rory Gillen, founder of the investor website Gillen Markets, believes you should look to the markets to determine whether or not the eurozone financial crisis is over -- and if the time is right to invest in European shares again. "Markets are well off their lows of last year -- and well off the higher lows of this year," said Gillen. "So far, the market's verdict is that we are muddling through." Even if we are muddling through, and if the time is right to invest in Europe or the stock markets, do your homework before you jump into an investment. Sunday Indo Business 
