stocks
{  
    February 04 2010 09:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/localnotes/tailor-made-designs-on-the-feminine-figure-27074866.html }
WITH a staggering 85% of women wearing the incorrect bra size, a Banteer mother and daughter team certainly have statistics on their side to help the women of Cork, to not only look better but to feel better. Tomorrow Mary Frances Ryan will open the aptly named, ' The Perfect Fit,' on Percival Street in Kanturk. Mary Frances works as a nurse for the past six years at the South Infirmary, and her mother, Mary O'Keeffe, who is a recently retired nurse, will also work in the shop. A slice of very welcome news for shoppers is that the day of the opening on Friday February 5 and on Saturday, February 6, there will be 10% off. The duo went to West Sussex in England recently to undertake a four day course on how to measure women for their correct size. The good news for women of all sizes is that the shop will have bras which will go from an AA cup to a K cup. " Women of all sizes will be catered for, and it is not a problem for women to bring in a new outfit that they want to get that special bra for. At least women will be able to see exactly how a good bra is to fit, and what difference the correct underwear will make to the outfit," said Mary Frances. The Perfect Fit will stock Fraya, Panache, Ballet, Pour Moi, After Eden, Lapel and Chantelle. And the news just gets better as all the products are under € 50. In short, a customer can get a beautiful bra which will absolutely not break the bank and which will importantly look great. Shoppers will also be delighted to know that loyalty cards will also play a big part in their purchase. Mary Frances explained when a customer makes five purchases, they will get the sixth for half price. Gift vouchers are also available, and they can make for an ideal present for a sister or friend. And with mother's day not too far away, a voucher would be an ideal gift to give. In addition, any woman who wants to hide that unwanted bulge need look no further, as a deluge of top quality Madenform shapewear is available. Customers can also look forward to choosing from a number of matching bra and underwear sets. As Mary Frances is working as a nurse and her mother is a recently retired nurse who worked at Kanturk Hospital, both women are very well aware of women who underwent a mastectomy. "It can be a very difficult time for a woman to lose a breast to cancer, and in the course of my job as a nurse, I have met countless women who have lost a breast or both. It can be a traumatic and very upsetting time for a woman. I will be doing a wide range of bras which cater solely for women who underwent a mastectomy," she said. She said she will have a variety of very feminine bras for women who had a mastectomy. In addition, women who are nursing, need not fret that the only bras available in the world are plain white bras. "I have sourced some really fantastic and very feminine nursing bras of all colours and sizes, which really look and feel fantastic," she said. Maternity bras as well as sports and teenage bras are also in stock. Women who are also looking for the perfect bridal set also need look no further than The Perfect Fit, as Mary Frances has a fantastic range in stock. The good news is that if a bra is not in stock, she will be able to order a new set which will be in the shop within a week. " This is not a problem at all, as sometimes a woman might really love a particular set and it's gone in their size. By placing an order that day, the customer should have it within one week," she said. Gel bras and enhancer will also be beneficial to any woman who wants to enhance their breast size and give it a boost. "A women who is unhappy with her size a gel filled bra works wonders," she said. In ' The Perfect Fit,' a range of Marie Claire tights are in stock, and during the Summer, she will have the latest fashionistas swim-wear. Mary Frances is certainly excited and looking forward to her new business adventure, and it is one which she said the people of Duhallow were delighted to see making inroads into Kanturk. "So many people have said to me that it would be ideal to have a professional fitting service, and women will not have to make long journeys to get fitted anymore. The Perfect Fit is practically on everyone's doorstep in Duhallow, which is just ideal," she said. She said: "I've always felt that North Cork could do with a good quality shop which provides a measuring service for women of all sizes. The four day intensive course in England and exam were certainly well worth under-taking as now we know exactly what size a woman should be," said Mary Frances. The Perfect Fit will be open from Monday-Saturday, from 10.30pm until 6pm. WITH a staggering 85% of women wearing the incorrect bra size, a Banteer mother and daughter team certainly have statistics on their side to help the women of Cork, to not only look better but to feel better. Tomorrow Mary Frances Ryan will open the aptly named, ' The Perfect Fit,' on Percival Street in Kanturk. Mary Frances works as a nurse for the past six years at the South Infirmary, and her mother, Mary O'Keeffe, who is a recently retired nurse, will also work in the shop. A slice of very welcome news for shoppers is that the day of the opening on Friday February 5 and on Saturday, February 6, there will be 10% off. The duo went to West Sussex in England recently to undertake a four day course on how to measure women for their correct size. The good news for women of all sizes is that the shop will have bras which will go from an AA cup to a K cup. " Women of all sizes will be catered for, and it is not a problem for women to bring in a new outfit that they want to get that special bra for. At least women will be able to see exactly how a good bra is to fit, and what difference the correct underwear will make to the outfit," said Mary Frances. The Perfect Fit will stock Fraya, Panache, Ballet, Pour Moi, After Eden, Lapel and Chantelle. And the news just gets better as all the products are under € 50. In short, a customer can get a beautiful bra which will absolutely not break the bank and which will importantly look great. Shoppers will also be delighted to know that loyalty cards will also play a big part in their purchase. Mary Frances explained when a customer makes five purchases, they will get the sixth for half price. Gift vouchers are also available, and they can make for an ideal present for a sister or friend. And with mother's day not too far away, a voucher would be an ideal gift to give. In addition, any woman who wants to hide that unwanted bulge need look no further, as a deluge of top quality Madenform shapewear is available. Customers can also look forward to choosing from a number of matching bra and underwear sets. As Mary Frances is working as a nurse and her mother is a recently retired nurse who worked at Kanturk Hospital, both women are very well aware of women who underwent a mastectomy. "It can be a very difficult time for a woman to lose a breast to cancer, and in the course of my job as a nurse, I have met countless women who have lost a breast or both. It can be a traumatic and very upsetting time for a woman. I will be doing a wide range of bras which cater solely for women who underwent a mastectomy," she said. She said she will have a variety of very feminine bras for women who had a mastectomy. In addition, women who are nursing, need not fret that the only bras available in the world are plain white bras. "I have sourced some really fantastic and very feminine nursing bras of all colours and sizes, which really look and feel fantastic," she said. Maternity bras as well as sports and teenage bras are also in stock. Women who are also looking for the perfect bridal set also need look no further than The Perfect Fit, as Mary Frances has a fantastic range in stock. The good news is that if a bra is not in stock, she will be able to order a new set which will be in the shop within a week. " This is not a problem at all, as sometimes a woman might really love a particular set and it's gone in their size. By placing an order that day, the customer should have it within one week," she said. Gel bras and enhancer will also be beneficial to any woman who wants to enhance their breast size and give it a boost. "A women who is unhappy with her size a gel filled bra works wonders," she said. In ' The Perfect Fit,' a range of Marie Claire tights are in stock, and during the Summer, she will have the latest fashionistas swim-wear. Mary Frances is certainly excited and looking forward to her new business adventure, and it is one which she said the people of Duhallow were delighted to see making inroads into Kanturk. "So many people have said to me that it would be ideal to have a professional fitting service, and women will not have to make long journeys to get fitted anymore. The Perfect Fit is practically on everyone's doorstep in Duhallow, which is just ideal," she said. She said: "I've always felt that North Cork could do with a good quality shop which provides a measuring service for women of all sizes. The four day intensive course in England and exam were certainly well worth under-taking as now we know exactly what size a woman should be," said Mary Frances. The Perfect Fit will be open from Monday-Saturday, from 10.30pm until 6pm. 
