stocks
{ Siobhan Kavanagh 
    September 08 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/how-to-avoid-fodder-crisis-26564737.html }
A RECENT Teagasc survey found that up to one-third of farmers do not have adequate fodder stock for the coming winter. However, this does not mean farmers have to panic because the key to avoiding a fodder crisis is to act immediately. If you have at least 40-50pc of your required silage already in stock, there are plenty of options you can take to alleviate the problem. The first critical step is to calculate how much fodder you have in stock and compare it to the demand your animals will have over the winter. This means going out to measure the silage pit or count bales and then counting your stock numbers going into the winter. Your local adviser will help calculate this. Some farmers will reduce stock levels in order to cut demand. On dairy farms, this could mean selling off surplus replacement heifers or selling beef animals and cull cows that only have a small profit margin. Selling off stock also the added bonus of generating a small amount of additional cash for the farm. So, what are the options? Buying in additional silage is one option but there is no point in buying in bales at too high a price. If you can buy a 14pc ration for €165-185/t, then a 4x4 bale of silage is only worth €18-23/bale, depending on quality. Remember that while bales provide bulk, most have 70-75pc water in them, while water content in ration is just 15-18pc. The reality is that there is very little silage on the market at this price so the better alternative is to simply feed restricted quantities of the silage you have and make up the shortfall with meals or alternative wet feeds or forages. The alternatives to grass silage are:  Cereals Rolled barley is good value this year, as are citrus pulp and soya hulls. However, molasses is poor value, relative to cereals. On a protein basis, soya and distillers grains are similar in cost per unit of protein, at about 75c/kg of protein. While rapeseed meal is cheaper and is good value, its inclusion in feed should be limited to 1.5-2.0kg/head/day.  Maize silage Maize silage is worth €36-41/t. Maize silage should only be bought by weight. Do not buy it by the field. Always get a dry matter and starch content done before agreeing a final price.  Fodder beet Fodder beet is worth €27-32/t. Remember, it must be balanced for protein and minerals and the labour attached to fodder beet is high. If buying wet feeds such as brewers' grains or other distillery by-products, always get a dry matter on the product and get your adviser to value it.  Restricting silage If silage is too expensive, limit the silage being offered to stock and top up with concentrates. Start this at the beginning of the winter. Don't let the silage run out before you look for solutions. Dairy cows and sucklers need a minimum of 18-20kg fresh weight of silage, while weanlings and in-calf heifers need a minimum of 8-10kg fresh weight of silage and stores need a minimum of 12-15kg fresh weight of silage. As a rule of thumb, where you were offering three grabs to a pen of stock per day, this is now restricted to one. Feed 2-4kg of meals to weanlings, in-calf heifers, stores, dry cows and autumn calved sucklers, depending on target gain and body condition. These feeding rates apply where you have only 30-40pc of your target forage requirements. If you have 67pc+ of your forage requirements, the feeding rates for ration can be reduced. If feeding minimum silage, a 14pc crude protein ration will suffice for most classes of stock. However, if you are feeding minimum straw, a higher feeding rate of meals will be necessary and an 18-20pc crude protein ration will berequired to balance for protein. It is essential to feed minerals.  Meal feeding tips: Animals will get used to this system quickly. Remember to feed minerals to all classes of stock. Adequate space allowance is critical to avoid some animals overeating and other animals being bullied. Build up feeding rates slowly. This may require setting up additional trough-feeding space in yards. All animals should be monitored regularly for signs of ill-thrift on this system. Monitor cow condition regularly. 
