stocks
{ Ann Fitzgerald 
    May 06 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/tighter-extensification-to-benefit-smaller-producer-26047212.html }
TIGHTER extensification stocking rates coupled with higher payment rates would result in a reduction in the suckler cow herd  and in beef output volume, but the change would have a marginally positive impact on beef farm  incomes, with most benefit for small-scale producers. This is according to an analysis by economists in the Teagasc Rural Economy Research Centre. Change in the extensification stocking rates is one of the possible changes in EU policy in the mid-term review of Agenda 2000 due to begin in June. At present, extensification is paid on suckler cows and male cattle where the farm stocking rate is below certain levels. This year, extensification is paid at ?40 per eligible animal to farmers with stocking rates of 1.4-1.8 livestock units per hectare. The payment increases to ?80 where stocking rates are less than 1.4 livestock units per hectare. The Teagasc economists looked at the impact of lowering the stocking rate eligibility by 0.2 livestock units per hectare and the results were outlined by economist Dr Kevin Hanrahan at the Teagasc Outlook 2002 conference in Dublin. In the new scenario, extensification would be paid at the low level at a stocking rate of 1.2-1.6 livestock units per hectare and at the high level at a stocking rate of less than 1.2 livestock units per hectare. The Teagasc economists have assumed an increased payment of ?25/head at the low level, giving a new payment of ?65 and an increase of ?33.33 per head at the high level, giving a new payment of ?113.33 per head. The analysis shows that the changes would lead to an increase of 4pc in direct payments to farmers and an increase of 3pc in farm income. However, the suckler herd would drop by 3pc resulting in a decline of just over 1pc in beef output volume. Dr Hanrahan told the Teagasc conference that the impact of the tighter extensification rules would bring the greatest benefit to smaller-scale beef producers. A reduction in stocking rate on these farms would be more than compensated by the higher extensification payments, leading to a 10pc income increase. Larger-scale farmers, not currently availing of extensification, would have to reduce livestock numbers by 20pc to avail of the new low level payment. This would reduce their incomes by 40pc. Therefore, it would not pay these farmers to change stocking levels. 
