stocks
{  
    March 20 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/sheep-farms-in-new-zealand-aim-for-3000-stock-in-survival-plan-26193868.html }
WHILE there are about 25,000 holdings in New Zealand with sheep, 95pc of the national flock is farmed by 17,500 producers. A recent report there recommended that producers will require a minimum of 3,000 stock units (i.e. ewes and replacement hoggets) to survive over the next 13 years. At present, about 50pc of producers have this number or more. Practically all producers breed their own replacements (replacement ratio about 25pc). Every farm has a good handling unit (note!), a wool/shearing shed and a number of good dogs. Machinery on sheep farms is generally limited to a Quad or small runabout truck. Traditionally, the emphasis was on wool production. New Zealand sheep yield 5-6kgs wool annually compared to 5-6 lbs here. However, with the advent of synthetics and the more recent downturn in the Chinese market, wool prices have taken a dive, with the result that meat production is becoming more important. In the South Island which, climatic-wise, is most similar to Ireland, sheep are stocked at 10-12/ha (4-5/ac). This high stocking rate has its origins in maximising overall wool yield and quality. While some lowland farms are achieving 1.5 lambs, the average ``tailing'' rate (weaning rate) is about 1.1 lambs/ewe. It is also worth mentioning that more lambs have been ``tailed'' across the country this year (1.17pc) than ever before and these lambs are coming onto the European market at present. The sheep management system is one of easy/natural care. If a ewe has to be handled at lambing, both her and her lamb are marked and culled. Ewes are not turned up for foot care and are generally not foot-bathed. If a ewe goes lame, she is culled. Other than that, the health care programme (vaccination, dosing) is quite similar to the one operated here. Incidentally, the two main health problems are Facial Exzema (on the North Island) and Vaginal Prolapse. It is not so much that the prolapsing is much worse than here, but 2-4pc in a flock of 2,500-3,000 ewes could mean 100 ewes. GRASS New Zealand is grassland no meals are fed to sheep (too expensive). Sheep are outwintered all the year round; no mean achievement when you have 2,500 ewes on 500 acres. In fairness, they have some advantages but they also exploit these to the full. Grass practically grows the whole year round about 6-9kgs DM/ha/day produced over the winter. If you have ewes stocked at 12 to the hectare and they are consuming 1kg/day, this is 50pc of their requirements. The other 50pc is from grass accumulated from the autumn. Also, if there is excess pasture over the summertime, this is conserved as hay or silage (mostly baled)) and fed over the winter. Why can we not adopt a similar system? I don't want to make excuses because I do believe that many producers (given that the average stocking rate in this country is 3 ewes/ac) could exploit grass much more, but New Zealanders have two things going for them: (1) Ewe weights are a little lighter and they produce somewhat fewer lambs. (2) They get rid of their lambs at about 15-16kgs carcase weight while we are selling at 18-19kgs. This means that lambs are on the farms here for an extra 6-8 weeks, making it much more difficult to accumulate pasture for winter feeding. Pasture planning and monitoring is a big thing with producers when we were travelling through fields, they would regularly provide estimates of pasture cover. If, on coming into the winter, there is insufficient pasture to carry all animals, producers do not have any hesitation in selling stock (they have no subsidy retention dates to worry about). GRAZING It was in this area that I was most surprised. Before I went, I was under the impression that sheep flocks were rotationally grazed throughout the year. Not so. Sheep are generally set-stocked for the early part of the year, up to weaning time. After weaning, the flock is divided into separate grazing groups and prioritised. Lambs for sale are highest priority and are allocated the best pastures; followed by the two tooths (hoggets), with the ewes doing the ``real clean-up.'' It is only during the winter period that the sheep are concentrated into mobs and rotationally grazed, generally with a short grazing duration (1-3 days). In the Southland, where winter pasture growth rates are relatively low, rotation lengths are typically 80-100 days. Many producers particularly the ones concentrating on increasing litter size pregnancy scan their flocks and allocate a higher daily pasture allowance to those carrying multiples. I was also under the impression that all New Zealand pastures contained high proportions of white clover. Again, not so. The proportion of clover in sheep pastures on an annual basis is somewhere between 10-15pc. Here in Ireland the figure is 5-10pc. The reasons for the difference: pasture management (close grazing coming into the winter) and soil fertility (low use of Nitrogen and relatively high use of Phosphate). The higher soil temperature also contributes to its increased production. Re-seeding plays an important part in grassland management and parasite control. Somewhere around 10pc of pastures seem to be reseeded annually an operation often made necessary by the need to grow a ``catch'' crop (chicory, rape, swedes, etc) to combat drought. Some producers also use ``chemical topping'' where a small amount of Paraquat/Roundup is sprayed onto the pasture in order to slow down grass growth and reduce its competition with clover. BREEDS Romneys make up practically half of the national flock, followed by Coopworths (Romney X Leicester) and Perendales (Romneys X Cheviots). Until recently, most flocks were bred pure but, with the emphasis now on meat, producers are crossbreeding using Finns to increase litter size and East Friesian for milk production. This has given rise to plenty of controversy not unlike what happens when new breeds are introduced or promoted here (still happening with the Belclares).  Regarding this controversy, I must also add that I was a little surprised at the lack of any independent research data. The Agricultural Advisory and Research Organisations are commercial bodies (the user pays). In many cases, it is left to farmers themselves or farming groups to carry out their own on-farm research and investigations. 
