stocks
{  
    January 07 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/picking-a-winning-investment-formula-26161752.html }
RORY GILLEN, equity analyst at NCB stockbrokers, today begins a series of six articles for the private investor, in which he outlines winning stock-picking systems which have been developed and documented over the years by recognised stock market investors FOLLOWING the violent swings in stock markets through 1998, private investors might be tempted to conclude that the stock market is an illogical and dangerous place to invest. One can point out that investing in the stock market has provided the best returns over the long term. But how does the private investor control his/her emotions during volatile periods so as to remain in the market long enough to gain the benefits of these superior returns? The answer, I believe, is that investors who see the stock market as the best place to be longer term should employ a tried and tested systematic approach to stock selection that allows one to make buy and sell decisions in an unemotional and detached way. How exactly can this be done in practice? Well, there is help at hand. There have been some superb books written in the 1990s on stock market investment (most of them originating out of the US) which provide compelling evidence that there are many relatively simple, effective systems of investing in the market that can be used by private investors. Each Thursday over the next five weeks in the Irish Independent, I will take readers through a selection of the `Investment Classics,' outlining the investment systems involved and explaining why they have been successful. I will also provide details of the historical returns delivered. There will be no subjectivity introduced on my part just facts which readers can take or leave. The research detailed in these books is significant because, to make the best investment plans for the future, investors need access to unbiased, long-term performance results of various stock picking styles. It is not important whether your style is to pick growth stocks, low P/E stocks or high yield stocks etc. It is knowing how a particular investment strategy has performed historically that provides the vital information on its risk, variability and persistence of returns. Access to long-term performance results lets you make informed choices, based on facts, not hype. The following are the investment books I propose to review over the next five weeks: Beating the Dow by Michael O'Higgins; The Unemotional Investor by R. Sheard; Beyond the Zulu Principle by Jim Slater; What Works on Wall Street by O'Shaughnessy and Contrarian Investment Strategies by D. Dreman. Readers can buy any of the above investment books from Harriman House in London (Tel: 0044 1730 233870). There is a 10pc discount available if you quote NCB's article in the Irish Independent. The common theme linking these investment books is that they outline systems for selecting shares using quantitative criteria i.e. the stocks are chosen according to numerical characteristics such as yield, EPS growth, net asset value, PE ratios etc. What I expect to show readers who follow the articles is that an in depth knowledge of the company, its products or its management is not a necessity for successful investing in the market. Armed with a tried and tested system, private investors can achieve the returns available in the broader markets (and often substantially more) with as little as an hour's work a month and often a lot less. The benefits of using a quantitative approach to investing go beyond merely reducing the workload. It can also remove much of the subjectivity and emotion from the investment decision making process, two characteristics that private investors find hardest to control and ultimately can be the cause of poor returns. Of course, it would be right to ask how one can dismiss key qualitative fundamentals such as a company's management, market and product positioning etc from the decision making process. After all, the world's greatest stock market investor, Warren Buffet in the US, bases his investment decisions on intuition, in-depth knowledge of the company, its markets and management. The reason, of course, is that most of us cannot correctly assess these subjective factors and, therefore, if possible, it is better to ignore them. We would all like to be able to pick the winning stock, buy it while it is cheap, keep it fora lifetime and see it rise a hundredfold. Buffet has done this several times over. However, in all probability, he is simply a genius and probably almost impossible to copy by mere mortals such as ourselves. For most, it is much better to find some easily followed but well tested investment approach that can be replicated. The first book I will review is Michael O'Higgins' 1991 investment classic Beating the Dow, which is a high-yielding system of investing in the Dow Jones Index of the 30 largest stocks in the US.  The O'Higgins high yielders have consistently (over time) beaten returns available in the Dow Jones. The system cam be easily copied and it takes less than an hour a year to construct a portfolio based on one of O'Higgins' systems. 
