stocks
{  
    October 16 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/watch-closing-dates-26325178.html }
Closing date has the biggest effect on the amount of grass available for grazing in spring. For early-March turnout, fields should be closed by mid-October and by late-October for mid-March turnout. Trials at Johnstown Castle showed that delaying closing by one month (from mid-October to mid-November) reduced the grass cover in mid-March by 25pc and a further month's delay (to mid-December) reduced grass cover by 50pc. In northern regions, the difference can be expected to be even greater. Considering the increased costs of winter feeding -- silage and concentrates -- the plan on every drystock farm on free draining soils should be to get a proportion of stock to grass in early March. The early-turnout stock should be those with the highest nutritional requirement, which means those that are most costly to keep indoors (e.g. forward cattle) excluding those on indoor finishing rations, ewes and lambs, autumn-born suckler cows with calves and yearling cattle. Spring grass is worth much more than the equivalent amount available to stock in autumn, firstly because of its higher feeding value, and secondly because it often provides feed for more productive animals, such as beef cattle availing of compensatory growth, ewes and lambs and calved cows. Store cattle, indoors, on average silage (68pc dmd), usually gain about 0.35kg lw/day (from farm weight recording on monitor farms), having consumed about 6.5t of silage costing about €117. This comes to an estimated feed cost/kg lw gain of €2.23, when the value of 1kg lw at the mart is about €1.50. On turnout to grass, lw gain rises to 1.25kg/day and the feed cost/day is about 50c, giving a feed cost/kg lw gain of 40c. Gain from mid-summer grass is even cheaper. Now is the time to plan for early turnout to quality spring grass. The requirements for early grazing are: l adequate grass cover to carry the stock being turned out -- dependent on closing date and nitrogen application; l making silage ground available for grazing in March; l grass budgeting to calculate grass supply and match to herd demand. Start closing Using the silage ground to provide early grazing implies that this is the area to be closed now. Fields should be closed in rotation, as they are grazed out. The permanent grazing land, which will not have a first grazing until early April, can be the last to be closed, possibly into December, depending on stocking rate and soil/weather conditions. Therefore, there will be a series of closing dates and a series of first grazings from late-February/early-March to early-April. Temptation Ryegrasses grow at lower temperatures and are less subject to winter frost decay than old pasture grass, but it is important to graze bare in the final grazing before closing -- down to 4.5-5cm sward height. This removes older leaves, promotes fresh growth and especially winter tillering. Most of the grass present in February will grow between now and Christmas. If there is good growth in the next six weeks on fields that are closed for early grass, don't be tempted to go in and graze them off, as this would be the same as setting a new delayed closing date. There is considerable caution in turning out cattle early due to the risk of poaching in wet weather and the prospects of having to take them back in to the house. There is also the concern of not having enough grass to carry stock through until daily grass growth rate matches the stock requirements (herd demand). March weather is sometimes more favourable for grazing than May. Be flexible, avoid over-stocking on small areas. The silage ground only needs to be grazed once, so stock can be spread out if necessary. A grass budget on the area to be grazed will tell you how much stock the area will carry for a specific number of days. 
