stocks
{  
    December 01 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/taking-stock-of-asian-rumble-26200252.html }
PICKING stock market winners is tricky at the best of times. Trying to do so at a time of high volatility on world markets is fraught with danger. The great majority of the 24,000 or so students currently participating in the 1997/98 Student Investment Competition have had to learn this the hard way. They had to select their investments just as the South East Asian bubble was about the burst and severely test investor confidence on this side of the world. They were asked to invest a notional £20,000 in five investments from a total list of 40 Irish and UK stocks, with the initial valuation taking place on 20 October. Only seven of these stocks were trading in the `black' when portfolios were revalued last Tuesday. Two more had held their own, but 31 were showing losses, including favourites like Guinness and Smurfit. The 210 out of a total entry of just under 15,000 who chose Tullow Oil to anchor their portfolios will be feeling might happy they did. This stock has raced ahead by 32.8pc since the competition kicked off, a return which had left everything else in its wake. James Crean with a gain of 6.5pc is the next best share. In this period, stock markets here and in the UK have retreated. Dublin has done relatively better, just slipping 3.7pc, than London, which was off 7pc when the portfolios were revalued. This can, however, be seen as a fairly modest correction. It certainly has not impacted on the performance of the team from Easkey Vocation School in Sligo which currently heads the team section of the competition. The squad of John Paul Devaney, Enda McHugh, Patrick Kilgannon, Leo Murphy and Eugene Mullen, picked Tullow as their banker and supported it with James Crean, Mackie International, Independent Newspapers and Ryanair. The latter two stocks have fallen and Mackie is unchanged, but the oil and gas explorer has more than compensated. Bernie Crean, a student at Castlerea Community School in Co Roscommon, heads the individual section with a 14.2pc gain. She also plumped for Tullow and has Mackie as her second choice. She then picked James Crean, although it's not clear whether this was inspired by the holding company's low stock market value or its name. Irish Permanent and Bank of Ireland complete her portfolio. 
