stocks
{ John Donworth<br>Dairy 
    September 12 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/key-link-between-grass-growth-and-stocking-rate-25965983.html }
I WAS in north Kerry last week working with discussion groups and the following comments reflected the good mood the farmers were in: "great weather for grass," "wonderful." The following comment was also made: "Kerry are into the second leg of their first 5-in-a-row." That's confidence for you. Tyrone readers, please note. Back to the first comments. It has indeed been wonderful weather for grass growth. Ideal grazing conditions, long hours of sunshine, and most impressive all the ability of the grass to recover in paddocks just grazed. I hadn't seen that type of recovery at any stage this year. So what is happening? Average daytime temperatures of 20C, soil temperatures of 18C, adequate moisture and, most important in September, long hours of sunlight. Grass has been coming along at the 60kgs/day average for the past few weeks. This level of growth will sustain 3 cows/ha (0.8 cows/ac) and it has put serious volumes of grass on dairy farms, particularly when it is combined with 35kgs N (1 bag CAN). What I am finding is that some farmers have been spreading nitrogen through August with no account being taken of the overall stocking rate of the farm. It is all very fine growing serious covers of grass, but you also need a serious number of mouths to eat it. Again (and I have said this before), we in the advisory service need to get across to farmers the close connection between cow demand, i.e. stocking rate, and grass growth rates. In periods of poor growth, there generally is no problem but when growth takes off as it has done for the past six weeks, you are going to grow serious covers of grass if you continue to apply too much nitrogen, where the stocking rate does not demand it. I talked to James Humphreys again about this last week. He told me that the rate of bagged N uptake during September is 0.5kg N/ha per day. If you follow this logic through, it would take 60 days for 30kgs of bagged N to be used up the grass plant. However, back again to the overall farm covers I found on farms last week. The covers varied from a high of 1,570kgs to a low of 909kgs of grass DM/ha. The farm with the high cover had a stocking rate of 2LU/ha (1.25ac/cow). This gives us a cover of 785kgs DM/cow - a serious, serious amount of grass. Grass demand at 2LU/ha is 40kgs/day approximately and with grass bombing along at 60kgs/day it is easy to see how serious grass covers will be built up at low stocking rates and at low grass demand where 27 units of N is spread after each grazing. A number of the paddocks had covers of over 2,000kgs and I began to ask myself if we needed the wrapper in here. But making silage bales in the first week of September is alien to me, particularly when there is enough silage bales on the farm already. The spinner should be put away immediately and the only avenue left open is to graze the cows through the high covers while at the same time hoping the weather remains favourable. The farm with the low cover (909kgs) had a stocking rate of 3 cows/ha (0.8ac/cow). The amount of dry matter per cow was 303kgs. This cover is much too low for the stocking rate. Rotation length was at 22 days and a bag of CAN was still going out. Grass growth rate of 60kgs/day is necessary to keep cover stable on this farm, but since this is not possible this farm will be out of grass in mid to late October. It is much too late to do anything about putting grass cover on this farm in early September. Action needs to be taken in mid August at the latest. Again, it is worth saying grass covers need to be done every 10 days as one moves through August and into September. This will tell you whether nitrogen needs to be applied or not, and more importantly how much. Inform yourself of the connection between cow demand, i.e. stocking rate, and grass growth rates. 
