stocks
{  
    April 15 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/iseq-ftse-calm-before-the-storm-26254205.html }
Dublin report:THOUGH the ISEQ fell 11.51 points over the week to  close at 5495.39, the Dublin market was, along with the Singapore market, the... THOUGH the ISEQ fell 11.51 points over the week to close at 5495.39, the Dublin market was, along with the Singapore market, the only burse that made headway during the week. It started poorly, with the ISEQ falling along with the decline in value of its largest cap stock, Elan, which continued to tumble on adverse rumours of problems in clinical trials of Ziconotide, one of its new treatments. But the banks came back slightly, although they did not retreat as far as the industrials, which were down 1.6 per cent. Technical stocks also retreated, the exception being SmartForce which rode the whirlwind on the back of recommendations from a US analyst. Tuesday was another poor day for Dublin, with the ISEQ down a further 63.79 and the fall in financials outpacing the industrials. Falls in Elan and Eircom contributed to much of the industrial decline with the price of the latter falling below euro 4 (to euro 3.93) at one stage. Both the major banks lost more of their recent gains and the technology stocks continued to weaken. But while technology stocks continued to slide mid-week, there was a resurgence of interest in the major financials which helped drive the ISEQ up 1.9 per cent on Wednesday. Anglo Irish and Irish Life & Permanent failed to join the rally, however. CRH put on gains and there was a more positive outlook for Elan on the back of gains in Wall Street. The ISEQ marked time on Thursday as Dublin attempted to make sense of the pirouetting Nasdaq. Among the financials, Bank of Ireland proved the strongest, while both AIB and Anglo Irish fell back. CRH shed some of its earlier gains, while Eircom staged a bit of a rally. Friday saw the ISEQ actually put on almost 20 points, mostly among the industrials Elan's comeback continued, though larger cap stocks like Eircom and CRH shed some cents.  London report: MONDAY saw London catch an early chill from the Nasdaq and it closed down 36.5 points at 6533.4 in mixed trading. Telecommunications and computing-related stocks were heavy losers but larger financials and pharmaceuticals were the gainers. In line with Nasdaq sentiment, however, biotechs continued their seesaw. The FTSE 100 fell again on Tuesday, down 154.2 amid renewed nervousness and fear of a serious New York rout. Nerves were not calmed, even when the Dow staged a convincing rally. Baltimore lost stg£8.86 to stg£72.24 as the technical, media and telecoms sector continued to decline. Wednesday saw the FTSE 100 fall a further 28.4 on the day, though there was some cheer for telecommunications stocks as the Vodafone bid for Mannesmann was approved (although the share closed down 0.5p). There was more switching into old economy stocks on the back of another recovery on the Dow, and here Prudential and Allied Zurich were among the winners. There was little respite for technology and internet stocks on the back of a downgrading for Microsoft from Goldman Sachs. The FTSE recovered 6.2 points on Thursday on the back of a further ``old economy'' rally even the beleaguered Railtrack managed to get on track with a full head of steam. British Telecom and Vodafone Airtouch were also among the gainers, but other telecommunications stocks suffered badly, as did software offerings. A mark of the general sense of uncertainty was seen when one planned IPO on AIM, One-ClickHR, was delayed. Friday saw a return to gloom with the FTSE 100 ending down 2.8 per cent on a six-week low after hearing news of growing US inflation figures. Moods deteriorated even further after Wall Street opened sharply down and decliners outpaced advancers by a ratio of four to one as the charts filled with red ink. Baltimore fell almost 25 per cent during the day, the worst of the losers. 
