stocks
{  
    January 03 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/limiting-downside-while-buying-value-26402148.html }
Bloxham's investment chief is going for an attractively-priced hat-trick after two excellent years WITH a 45pc portfolio return in 2004, followed by a circa 25pc return in 2005, I thought about retiring from this column while the going was good! I am, therefore, sticking to the same strategy of recommending three stocks that are attractively priced and have little downside in my opinion, even if stock markets disappoint in 2006, and two more speculative stocks. All the stocks fit our Contrarian Fund investment style (the fund's objective is to capitalise on the volatility of stock markets, and buy shares that are deeply out of favour with investors, look for a 15-20pc gain, and move on). As prices are so volatile, I have given the price on the day I have recommended the stocks. The Bloxham Funds may have a holding in the stocks mentioned below. 1. Bank of Ireland (?13.40) The only one of my five for last year to remain on this year's list, the Bank of Ireland share has languished in 2005 in comparison with those of AIB, Irish Life & Permanent and Anglo Irish Bank. Continued underperformance by the asset management subsidiary BIAM and the UK retail bank business has overshadowed the robust domestic economy and efficiency gains. We reckon BoI should grow earnings by 10pc per annum for each of the next two years, which should ensure good share price performance next year. 2. Grafton Group (?8.70) It's rare to be able to put such a high quality company on the 'Contrarian' list but, having fallen some 17pc from its February highs, it offers attractive value. UK building merchants have done badly, which has caused weakness in Grafton's share price, but we feel the company will come through with little problem. Recent bolt-on acquisitions signal the management's confidence in future growth. As Ireland's largest builders' merchants and DIY stores operator, it is well-positioned to benefit if the nation spends part of the 2006/2007 SSIA maturities on home improvement. 3. Vodafone (Stg£1.26) The most unloved large stock in the UK (and possibly in Ireland too as many individuals still hold it at a loss after its purchase of Eircom's mobile phone business!); margins are under pressure, Vodafone Japan is a mess, and the newish (two years) ceo Arun Sarin has not impressed investors. For much of 2005, the stock traded comfortably at around stg£1.45-£1.50, but the recent poor results sent the shares down over 10pc. Valuation now discounts much bad news, while a sale of the Japanese business would send the shares up 15pc, and the new chairman, Sir John Bond, has an impressive track record from his HSBC days. 4. ITV (stg£1.09) Another disliked UK stock, the 'new' ITV was formed by the merger of Carlton and Granada two years ago. The merger has not worked so far from an investor's point of view, with declining a viewing audience and the negative knock-on to advertising revenue due to fierce competition from satellite and cable broadcasters. The investment case here is that its franchise and weak share price makes it an attractive takeover play - recent transactions in the media sector eg Viacom buying Dreamworks, French broadcasters Canal Plus and JF1 in merger talks, underpin this rationale. 5. Qualceram Shires (?1.18) Exposure to the weakening UK housing market and competition from lower-cost manufacturers has led to a couple of profit-warnings from this bathroom manufacturer. Investor confidence in the company is very low and, while the company trades at a very low valuation, one cannot attach credibility to next year's forecasts. At a market capitalisation of ?26m, sales of around ?100m, reasonably low borrowings, and a reasonable brand name, this is a speculative takeover/recovery play. Pramit Ghose is Head of Investment Strategy at Bloxham 
