stocks
{  
    September 10 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/dig-in-for-the-long-haul-with-eircom-shares-26138057.html }
The recent initial public offerings (IPO) including eircom and First Active gained plenty of punter interest but have they given much value in return? Bill Tyson and Ailish O'Hora report THERE'S no need to panic at the recent sharp fall in eircom shares. Yesterday, eircom was languishing at the euro 4.075 level that's still a premium to the IPO price of euro 3.90, so nobody is out of pocket. Many investors that still hold shares are either taking the long term view and holding out for the loyalty bonus of one share for every 25 held which comes on board next July. A dividend should also kick in at 1pc - a respectable total return of 5pc which handsomely beats leaving the money in the bank. Ideally, punters should have sold at euro 5 but they have now missed the boat and most analysts feel the stock is hovering around its floor, so you may as well hang on to it now. Everyone has still made a profit even if many are feeling a bit foolish for not having sold out at euro 5. The eircom situation is linked with the whole telecoms sector which has taken a rattling over the last few months. Telecom stocks generally have heavy borrowings and are thus strongly linked with interest rates. And any concerns about Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, hiking them up sends shivers through these stocks. Ironically, eircom is one of few telecom stocks that doesn't have borrowings but it has been dragged lower because, put simply, overseas institutions tar all companies in a given sector with the same brush. eircom does seem relatively expensive at a price earnings ratio of 37.5, a significant premium to its peers. However, this p/e includes the redundancy and transformation costs associated with becoming a public company. Stripping out these costs would reduce the p/e to the lower 30s. ``When it comes to eircom you have to look at the top line growth and also take into consideration the costs involved in restructuring which will be stripped out over the next two or three years,'' said John Conway, analyst at BCP Stockbrokers. According to Mr Conway, there is still value in eircom up to the euro 5.00 level. John Lawrie,investment director for Ireland with Scottish Provident, says he is not a seller of eircom. ``The company is newly privatised and the cost savings associated with that will flow through in the next two to three years,'' he says. Also in Edinburgh, Standard Life's Irish investment team reckons support should rally eircom at current levels. ``It's surprising that there hasn't been more buying by Irish institutions,'' says Paul Sweetnam, head of Irish Equities. He said any merger, takeover or joint venture speculation in the sector internationally should be good for eircom. It is unlikely to remain independent for the next five years and any sort of takeover bid would send the share price through the stratosphere, Paul suggests. eircom's earnings growth is also ``vastly better'' than a lot of other telecoms firms in Europe, while its Eircell subsidiary is cashing in on buoyant growth in the mobile phone market. Yet the stock market can be a perverse beast and despite all the upbeat comments on eircom, fund managers are still not actually buying the share, which is what it needs in order to recover. eircom shareholders can take some comfort from the performance of Norwich Union, which initially rose then fell back because cute institutional buyers waited for the price to drop back. It opened at 350p on the first day but later settled at 330p. Institutions sat back and only started to buy when the price eased, which could be what they are doing now. Michael Clarke, telecommunications analyst with NCB Stockbrokers, said institutions will be aware of the fact that many investors have borrowed large sums to buy shares and are under pressure to sell and take a quick profit before repaying their borrowings. People who invested savings, on the other hand, are under less pressure and may even wait to collect their bonus shares by holding on for 12 months before selling. They can take heart from the current price of Norwich of around 564p yesterday, which rose after the institutions arrived back into the market. Other stocks in which ordinary punters have a strong interest through hyped up flotations have also had a rough enough time. Half year results released at the end of August showed First Active's operating costs rose 6.3pc to £33.5m and the cost/income ratio was 62.2pc up from 61.3pc. The share price is also a disappointment and at the current 260p level it has fallen more than its peers. When First Active floated just over a year ago with an offering price of 225p, the stock initially soared up to a high of 350p and then went on the slippery slope downwards. In comparison with its peers in terms of share price, First Active doesn't look that great either. For example, Irish Life & Permanent's share price at the euro 9.8 level is four times that of its price when it floated back in the early 1990s. IL&P also gets the thumbs up from Standard Life, which reckons that the recent takeover bid for UK insurer Legal and General by Natwest would suggest IL&P is trading at a 25pc discount, if the same valuation criteria were used. The bottom line is that financial stocks have been out of favour with institutions for months now. Analysts say that they are expecting a rebound any day now and that once that happens they will take off again.  They see plenty of value in punter stocks and added that bargain hunters should also look at AIB and Bank of Ireland as these market leaders will be the first to bounce back once the cloud moves off financial stocks in general. 
