stocks
{  
    June 25 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/cashing-in-on-telecom-your-next-move-26148172.html }
Mark Cunningham, Director, Bank of Ireland Asset Management, looks beyond the hype and examines what happens next for investors after the eagerly anticipated Telecom Eireann float WITH only four days to go to the close of the application period for Telecom shares (4pm Wednesday next) the nation is building up to what is probably the single largest ``en masse'' financial transaction that Ireland has seen since the foundation of the state. Once the flotation takes place, investors all over the country will receive notification of the share allocation that they have received. For the small investor, this may well mean that they get the full amount for which they applied. But for investors who have applied for larger amounts, there is every likelihood that they will receive a refund of the surplus. This refund will be made either by cheque or directly to the investor's bank account. The question for investors who get a refund will be, what next? Clearly with interest rates at their current historic lows, the returns on offer from the traditional deposits will offer little returns. So what are the alternatives? And how do you go about making your mind up as to which suits your circumstances? We recommend that investors consider the stock market as part of their portfolio so what's the best way to go about this? 1. Buy more shares directly
 The major stockbroking firms all deal with private investors. While they may provide advice about individual shares you are ultimately responsible for picking your stocks. However, not all such decisions will be as easy as Telecom even if there is a future Microsoft waiting in the wings. 2. Pool your money
 The major investment houses offer ranges of ``pooled investments'' such as mutual funds. These are the obvious alternative to buying the shares directly. Such funds vary greatly in the types of approaches they take. There are funds available that have only limited exposure to the stock market and others who invest in nothing but international stocks. Each approach to investing in the stock market has its merits let's have a brief look at each in turn: Buying shares directly
 By purchasing shares directly through a stockbroker, the decision as to which stock to invest in rests with the investor. For many more experienced investors this can be an attractive feature. Use of personal tax allowances: Every year each of us is entitled to a personal capital gains tax allowance and by holding shares directly it is possible to make use of this allowance. However, the onus is on you to manage and meet your tax obligations in this regard. Going for strong returns: Almost every year there are a small number of shares that produce a very strong return by investing in a small number of handpicked shares, the risk may be much higher but there's always the chance of discovering the next Microsoft. Mutual funds Most mutual funds invest in dozens of stocks, which generally reduces the risk to an investor compared to holding an individual stock. Investors who hold an individual stock are more exposed to country, industry and business specific risks that affect that stock. By holding a diversified portfolio of shares on a global basis it is possible to reduce risk without having to sacrifice the long-term returns potential. To achieve such diversification requires a larger amount of money than most investors have available. Mutual funds are managed by professional fund managers whose job is to find good quality companies in which to invest. They do all the research on your behalf and make decisions about when to buy and sell as market conditions dictate so the only decision you have to worry about is choosing the right fund manager. Investments in mutual funds are represented by ``units'' in a fund. Each unit has a price that reflects the value of the underlying investments. These units can be bought on sold on a daily or weekly basis meaning they are highly liquid and easily bought or sold. Mutual funds generally take care of the bulk of the paperwork, most importantly the tax obligations for personal investors are dealt with within the fund. Telecom has certainly caught the public imagination and like all flotations of major companies it offers the potential for gains in both the short and the long term. While this is far from guaranteed, the record of other flotations is very much in support of this. Many of the companies that make up the funds I've described also went through the flotation process in years gone by and have gone on to become successful long term investments.  In other developed countries, (most notably in the US), the mutual fund approach to investing has become the preferred route and I suspect that this will become the norm in Ireland. 
