stocks
{  
    February 13 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/euro-stocks-surge-boosts-te-23pc-26159705.html }
TRINITY Biotech, the Irish Nasdaq-quoted diagnostics firm, has reported a doubling in pre-tax profits to $2.55m and said it will seek a secondary listing in Dublin by May in a bid to give the share price stability. A SURGE in European telecommunications stocks has added a possible £900m or 23pc on to the notional value of soon-to-be floated Telecom Eireann. The stocks had a very strong day yesterday, climbing vigorously on foot of much better than expected third quarter results from British Telecom. In the past two days, BT shares rose 13pc. Last July, the European index of telecommunications stocks was at 1,300 points but has now risen to 1,621 points. Telecom Eireann, which is planning to float at the end of June, will be valued in comparison to other stocks in the sector, many of which are included in the index. On the basis of a notional valuation of £4bn which has been placed on Telecom by some sources, the 23pc increase in the telecommunications index would now value the company in the region of £4.9bn. But as there are over five months before the flotation, the index could easily rise even further. The rise in value of Telecom will be welcome news for the workers in the company who, as part of the employee share ownership plan (ESOP), will be buying 9.9pc of the shares for £190m. Although the value of the company could increase, the price they pay for their shares remains fixed. The workers will also receive a further 5pc of the company on a phased basis in return for changes in work practices. NCB analyst Ciaran O'Neill said if the shares in the telecommunications companies rose, Telecom Eireann's value would also increase. Although telecommunications stocks had been weak recently, they reversed their slide and led to a recovery across European stock markets. BT pulled up major and minor players across the Continent and the stock markets rose generally with the telecommunications stocks. BT shares were up 2pc yesterday to stg£10.35, following an 11pc jump on Thursday. In Frankfurt, Deutsche Telekom gained 6.4pc to EURO 38.95 yesterday, pushing up the German DAX index by 2pc to 4,967.11 points.  Other telecommunications companies which saw their share prices rise included Spain's Telefonica, Germany's Mobilcom and UK companies Telewest Communications, Colt Telecom, Vodafone and Orange. 
