stocks
{  
    March 14 2008 12:53 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/stock-and-computers-damaged-27479874.html }
SHOPS AND BUSINESSES along part of the Quay and on Quay Street bore the brunt of Monday morning's flooding as many premises were discovered flooded, with stock destroyed and computer systems damaged.P.N. O'Gorman Auctioneers were one of the local businesses hit by the floods. as water washes into businesses SHOPS AND BUSINESSES along part of the Quay and on Quay Street bore the brunt of Monday morning's flooding as many premises were discovered flooded, with stock destroyed and computer systems damaged. P.N. O'Gorman Auctioneers were one of the local businesses hit by the floods. We did have a couple of inches of water. It affected our computers more than anything else. We had flood guards up but they didn't seem to help but it would have been worse without them,' said Philip Carton of P.N. O'Gorman. I was surprised that there weren't any precautions taken by the local authorities. I was in Waterford yesterday (Sunday) and the Corporation were reasonably well prepared,' said Philip. Dan Kavanagh's Shop on the Corner of Quay Street was also affected by the flooding, although precautionary measures taken by the shop ensured that no damage was caused. We can't do anything about it - it is a natural thing,' said Eamonn Moran, of Dan Kavanagh's who spent Monday morning cleaning up. The shop had a flood barrier in place and despite the high water level outside there was no stock damage caused. However, it was a very different story over in Serena, formerly Noreen O'Donnell's shop, where flood water covered the entire floor of the stop and caused damage to the computer and phone lines - so much so that the shop remained closed on Monday. I opened the shop and it was full of water,' said Elena Aguriana, a staff member at Serena, who was busily mopping up the flooded mess when the New Ross Standard called in on Monday morning. We are closed today - the computer is gone and the phone is gone but we are getting them fixed,' she added. There was stock damage and the stock is very expensive,' said Elena. Paddy Power's Bookmakers had a similar story to tell as the shop remained closed on Monday up to 3 p.m. while the cleaning up operation was in progress. Across the road in Joanna, Adam and Joanna Kilcula were on their hands and knees mopping up their shop floor, which was totally flooded by the stormy weather. The shop had no flood guard, but Adambelieves that even if they did have one in place it would not have helped as the water would have come up through a manhole in the vicinity of the shop and flooded the premises anyway. A dismayed Adam and Joanna were shocked on Monday morning when they arrived into work to find that one quarter of their stock damaged. The damage is so extensive that the couple fear they may be closed for the rest of the week. Staff at Harry Dooley's Barbers on the Quay went into work on Monday morning to find the entire floor in the premises covered in water, while William's Chemist on Quay Street also spent part of the morning with an industrial cleaner mopping up the water on the floor. Despite the presence of a flood guard the water still seeped in, however no stock damage was caused. Over in Whispers Boutique, there was a similar situation - water had trickled in over the flood guard and proprietor, Diane Hamilton, was mopping up on Monday morning. Luckily, no damage was caused to any of their stock. Meanwhile, as a precautionary measure New Ross Town Council handed out sandbags to people who requested them as a back up measure. Wheelie bins in the Recycling Depot in Rosbercon looked like a small armada of plastic boats floating as flood waters hit early Monday morning. The bins were floating in every direction with rubbish strewn from them and floating in the flood waters. A massive clean-up operation was undertaken after the flood by staff at the Recycling Depot. Meanwhile, across in Quay Street, bins which were out from Sunday night for collection on Monday morning were to be seen floating up and down the street with the high tide, with rubbish scattered everywhere. 
