stocks
{  
    November 14 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/taking-stock-of-the-irish-market-as-firms-flee-in-droves-26027227.html }
Is the Irish stock exchange simply experiencing a temporary eurozone-wide phenomenon or is this recent mass exodus a symptom of a universal meltdown among smaller markets? Is the two hundred-year-old Irish Stock Exchange finally dying? As share prices dive, companies are beginning to leave the market in droves 19 have quit since the beginning of 2001 and three more look set to leave in the coming months. Among the departures have been the biggest names in Irish business, including Smurfit and Eircom. The phenomenon is linked to the advent of the euro, which has suddenly made the Dublin market look like a small fish in the eurozone's vast ocean, making small Irish firms less attractive. And in many cases shareholders suffering as a result of poor performing investments are often happy to sell out. The basic rationale for companies to join the market is to raise money, but depressed stock prices have cancelled out the incentive of pursuing a flotation. These days it is easier to find funds privately by inviting venture capital groups to buy a slice of a firm, issue bonds or borrow from the bank, rather than take an expensive stock market listing and face the additional burden of frequent reporting of financial results. This week it emerged software group Riverdeep's chief executive, Barry O'Callaghan, is assembling a management buyout offer for the company. Also waiting in the departures lounge is electronic payment group Alphyra. Its chief executive, John Nagle, is working on a management buyout offer, and there is speculation US group First Data may make a bid. Another firm likely to delist is Dunloe Ewart, which has received a bid from chairman Noel Smyth, or it may sell its assets and pay back shareholders. Des Doran, investment director with Standard Life, says in the coming years national stock markets will disappear and will be replaced by a small number of electronic trading platforms. The Nasdaq in the US has no physical trading floor, but is a run by a number of computer servers based in New Jersey. Mr Doran says: "I would hope over time Europe will become an electronic market." In reality, the Europeans are pulling in different directions, with three large platforms emerging in Paris, Frankfurt and London. Ultimately, local exchanges will only need to act as listing agencies and as regulators for stockbrokers. Mr Doran says a generic stock exchange may not be the best way to raise capital. He argues that as long as Irish companies are small, there will be less incentive for them to join the stock market. In tandem with the queue of companies planning to leave the Irish market, there have also been two flotations hastily pulled due to depressed stock prices in Ireland recently. In May, technology group Spectel withdrew its ?65m flotation only hours before it was due to join the market, and in July drinks group C&C scrapped its plans to take a listing two days before it was scheduled to float. Tom Healy, chief executive of the Irish Stock Exchange, says the series of departures from the market is not unusual. "In London they are losing a flood of companies. It is something that happens everywhere. It will change when the market steadies up." He points out that the German stock market has been forced to close its Neuer Markt, which had been aimed at growing technology companies. Mr Healy says the Irish exchange has formed an alliance with the Deutsche Borse and is using the Xetra trading platform, where he believes the future lies. But he admits the Irish market's attempt to introduce a smaller companies stock exchange, called the DCM, has "not been a big swing". He says the Alternative Investment Market in London is the only smaller firms exchange which has succeeded. Neither does he expect to see an upswing in the stock market sentiment until the first quarter of next year at the earliest. A glance at the Irish Stock Exchange's accounts for the year ending December 2001 reveal it had a surplus of ?1.8m compared with a deficit of ?83,000 for the previous year as a result of a ?2m investment in the Xetra electronic dealing system in 2000. The accounts show staff numbers at the stock exchange increased from 34 to 40, and salaries and benefits rose from ?1.8m to ?2.5m. Among the non-executive directors, former Irish Life chief executive David Kingston was paid ?35,000 and CRH director Harry Sheridan was paid ?11,500. Total net funds were ?9.2m in December 2001, compared with ?6.7m at January 2001. Like any national stock market, times are changing for the Irish Stock Exchange. But because it is a small market in a little European country, it faces more drastic changes than most. 
