stocks
{  
    December 29 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/capitalise-on-volatility-and-buy-shares-that-are-out-of-favour-with-investors-25890318.html }
Following on the success of last year's tips, our market analyst is sticking to the same strategy for 2005 RECOMMENDING a small number of stocks remains a dangerous game in these very volatile stock markets. I was thus pleased to find out that of my five stock recommendations in this article last year, three of them are up while the 'losers' restricted their losses to 5pc each. The overall portfolio rose some 45pc. I am, therefore, sticking to the same strategy of recommending three stocks that are attractively priced and have little downside in my opinion, even if stock markets disappoint in 2005, and two more speculative stocks. All the stocks fit our Contrarian Fund investment style (the Fund's objective is to capitalise on the volatility of stock markets, and buy shares that are deeply out of favour with investors, look for a 15pc-20pc gain, and move on). As prices are so volatile I have given the price on the day I have recommended the stocks. The Bloxham Funds may have a holding in the stocks mentioned below. 1 BANK OF IRELAND (?11.80) Despite another series of unfortunate events AIB (one of my 5 last year) rose over 20pc in 2004, well outstripping BoI which has risen a measly 8pc. Whenever a gap of such magnitude between the two banks' performance appears it generally narrows again. Low valuations, an increasingly confident new ceo, scope for further efficiencies and continued takeover speculation for Irish banks should ensure more upward momentum. 2 NORTHERN FOODS (stg£1.65) A former high-flying glamour stock of the late 1980s/early 1990s, as a supplier of convenience foods to M&S, its margins have been squeezed severely. Management would appear to have not been able to adjust, even with some good branded products such as Goodfellows pizzas and Fox's biscuits. What's changed? A new formidable chief executive, Patricia O'Driscoll, arrived in March and has been shaking up the company. As she says herself, "although Northern Foods is a large company it has been run as a collection of small businesses. This has led to a failure to exploit the potential of our scale in procurement, manufacturing and logistics. The group's culture has become complacent and this has created obstacles to change". This lady means business, and there have already been large-scale changes at senior management level. Her track record is excellent and analysts are happy about her appointment. Combined with a 5.5pc well-covered dividend, these shares are attractive. 3 ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND (stg£16.60) The most unloved large financial stock in the UK, with investors worried that the acquisitive bank will make another large US or European acquisition that will require additional funding (investment institutions hate coughing up for rights issues even if it is the correct action in the long term - remember the deeply discounted rights issue by Grafton two years ago). The fact that RBS has an incredibly successful record at making acquisitions that add value for shareholders seems to be totally ignored and the bank trades on a rather lowly price-earnings ratio of nine and the dividend yield is now approaching 3.5pc. 4 McINERNEY (?6.00) Unusually for me, I am recommending a stock that has already performed well. McInerney has risen threefold over the past two years, but still remains an undervalued stock in our opinion. The company is valued at only six times earnings, reflecting a general worry that the Irish and UK housing market will sharply slow down. While there is evidence of a slowdown, we believe it will not be as deep as has been factored in to the McInerney share price. In addition, it remains an attractive takeover candidate. 5 REMY COINTREAU (?27.50) Remy Cointreau is an attractive stock for a variety of reasons: it has several global brands (Remy Martin, Cointreau, Charles Heidseck, Bols), it is surprisingly small (?1.3bn market value), and the stock is attractively priced (it trades at book value and has a dividend yield of nearly 4pc). As a small stock, it trades at a discount, as it is not researched by the large investment banks, or held by large fund managers. In addition, the industry is consolidating with the larger players (Diageo, LVMH, Constellation Brands) acquiring the smaller ones (Robert Mondavi wines, Glenmorangie, Ruffino Wines). A brace of global brands and a smallish market capitalisation makes this stock an attractive takeover play.  Pramit Ghose Pramit Ghose is head of investment strategy at Bloxham Stockbrokers 
