stocks
{  
    September 03 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/more-value-in-iseq-despite-this-years-15pc-recovery-25929354.html }
Investors are hoping that 2003 is a leap year for the usual September wobble in stock  markets as it might undo much of the recent gains recorded in rehabilitated equities FOR investors who put a lot of store in past historical statistics and trends, this may be the time for caution. September, it seems, is typically the weakest month of the year for the equity market, according to the renowned 
Stock Trader's Almanac. It notes that key American stock indices (Dow Jones Industrial Average and Standard & Poor's 500) posted the biggest percentage losses in September over the past 52 years. So beware! Irish investors will be hoping that there is no repeat this September, for the market has been making a strong comeback in 2003 following two bad years between 2001 and 2002. So far this year, the Irish market has bounced by 15pc as measured by the ISEQ index. Dublin is just ahead of the broadly-based American S&P measure (+14.6pc), and is well ahead of the two main European indices, the FT All-share and Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50, at plus 9pc and 7pc respectively. But the bald ISEQ trend does not tell the real story of the Irish market this year. Because the index's basket of stocks is heavily influenced by financials, which account for 48pc of the ?59bn overall market capitalisation or value, the trendline masks the fact that many Irish stocks have risen much more strongly this year than the average performance implied by the index. With the exception of stellar Anglo Irish Bank, and big advances by small caps IFG and FBD, the two big banks and Irish Life & Permanent have seriously disappointed and dragged the whole sector down with them. An analysis of 47 mainstream stocks shows that fewer than ten are in the red for the year, and that twenty-seven stocks have risen by 20pc or more. How well individual investors have done will really depend on when they bought into the market. Obviously, anybody who took the plunge earlier this year ought to be doing fairly well, unless they stuck all their money into the underperforming financials, market laggard Waterford Wedgwood or even Ryanair. The low-cost airline's share price has dipped this year - which might surprise some people, considering continued exciting profit growth and the company's amazing profile. But it must be remembered that Ryanair had outperformed during the lean years. Tracked back to the start of 2000, it is still showing a gain, whereas many of the other leading blue chips are still making up lost ground. Most investors will have been in the market before the start of 2003, so the good gains racked up this year will, for them, represent recovery rather than real growth. Nevertheless, the rise in stock values this year is really welcome news for people who have invested in pensions, as performances had become pretty ragged in recent years. Fund managers are beginning to smile again. Of course, pension funds don't just reflect the Irish market - they take a global approach to investment. That is, ironically, one of the reasons why they have taken such pain, because overseas markets have well underperformed the small Dublin stock market in recent years. Tracked back to the start of 2000, the Irish index has kept its head just above water. The US (S&P) is down 28pc for the same period, the fall in London has been 32pc, and the Eurostoxx 50 has registered a 50pc decline in those four years. And when you think that Elan's slump occurred during this period, this means that the underlying trend has been even better than measured by the index. Elan's market value is today some ?19bn lighter than it was prior to the emergence of its financial difficulties. The Irish equity market, therefore, has been quite resilient over the past three to four years, and more so than investors are probably aware. Among the chunkier companies that have really starred this year, Elan actually tops the list. The stock has doubled off its very low base this year, and while there are certainly lots of people still licking their wounds over Elan's fall from grace, for all that the stock has offered a real 'punt'. Kingspan, with a 93pc gain, has also sparkled, but for those unfortunate enough to have bought into the stock as it raced to its near peak of nearly ?5 in 2001, there is still some catching up to be done. House builder McInerney is one of the stocks that avoided the market slump of the past few years, cashing in on the benign Irish housing market and using this momentum to fund a timely expansion for its move back into the UK housing market. The break-up of Bank of Scotland's former holding has boosted liquidity and activity in the shares. A key element in the ISEQ's recovery this year has been the resurgence of CRH, which alone accounts for 15pc of the market's capitalisation. The stock has rallied more than 40pc and is by far the best performing blue chip this year. Weaker interim profit figures, out this week, did not come as a surprise, and the stock should continue to recover as acquisitions fuel earnings growth ahead of the expected upside in the US and key European markets. People looking for recovery bets from here on in could do worse than considering AIB and Bank of Ireland. Both stocks have lagged the recovery in European financials and are now on a rating discount. The banking environment has not worked out as bad as some people might have feared. Low interest rates should continue to ensure no bad debts crisis is around the corner. The outlook for Irish Life & Permanent is less clear. If savings markets begin to return to more normal levels, as some people believe they will in 2004, then the shares can be considered undervalued. Waterford Wedgwood is another stock that could easily bounce back, and sharply, if conditions work in its favour. The company has paid a dear price for failing to fully hedge against the euro's surge, but the dollar is at least now in its favour. Provided this does not change, the stock is a reasonable gamble. So what do the brokers think? They all see further upside in the ISEQ during the remainder of the year. NCB Stockbrokers do not have a specific target but reckon there is another 5-to-8pc to go yet. That would take the ISEQ index to 5000 or just above, a rise of 1000 points of 25pc over the whole year. Goodbody Stockbrokers have had a target of 5000 since May, and do not see any reason to change this now. Merrion Capital is a little less optimistic at 4800. 
