stocks
{  
    September 01 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/internet-stocks-offer-a-fast-route-to-fortune-or-poverty-26137120.html }
Want to net a fortune? Then internet stocks could be the place for your spare cash, writes Charlie WestonINTERNET stocks have delivered sky-high returns lately, and now may be a good time to gradually build up a portfolio, NCB's private client division maintains. But be warned: the rewards may be great but the risks are stratospheric too. The Dublin stockbroking firm is constantly being asked for investment recommendations by individuals looking to step aboard the upward ``flight path'' that has been experienced by many US Internet stocks over the past year or so. But Nigel Poynton of NCB warns that internet stocks should only be viewed as a high-risk investment and are not appropriate for ``widows and orphans'', he stresses. Should an individual be prepared to accept a higher degree of risk and feel comfortable with the volatile performance that these stocks will no doubt experience, then Mr Poynton suggests the following basic strategy: * Only invest a small percentage (ie less than 10pc) of your total share portfolio, * Only buy high-quality stocks, * Be prepared to wait for the long-term. Many stocks that are of the highest quality within the internet sector are down around 50pc from their 52-week highs, despite heading for Christmas which is the busiest online usage period of the year. Mr Poynton also stresses that internet stocks tend to be catalyst and sentiment driven. The period up to end January 2000 should be full of positive news if last year's performance is anything to go by. Last year, on the back of excitement generated by the holiday shopping season, the leading internet stocks rose by more than 300pc between August and January. However, this is unlikely to be repeated, NCB says. But Mr Poynton adds: ``We would expect online activity to be at least double that of last year, and we believe that the leading companies will benefit most from this upsurge in usage. ``But markets are likely to remain cautious in the near future given the outlook for US interest rates and internet stocks have been downtrodden as a result of the seasonal slowdown in summer activity, a busy Initial Public Offering pipeline, and some issues concerning the sustainability of such high stock ratings.'' Timing of investments, he says, is often near impossible to perfect and despite the above concerns now could be as good a time as any to gradually build up a portfolio of internet stocks, provided the individual investor has patience should a market/sector correction occur. There is also another strategy to give an investor some exposure to the growth of the internet without having to invest in relatively high risk, novice companies. This is to seek other industries that will benefit from the demand for internet usage and the accompanying infrastructure. Stocks that should benefit from this unparalleled growth story would include communications equipment provider Lucent, computer network supplier Cisco Systems, software and programming giant Microsoft, telecommunications company AT&T, recreational content providers Disney and Time Warner and London-listed network security company Baltimore Technologies. However, for those prepared to take the risks with high-flying internet stocks NCB has the following internet stock basket. America Online. It has a current price $99 and a 52-week high $175½ and a 52-week low $17¼. America Online Inc provides interactive communications and services through its AOL and Compuserve worldwide internet online services. The company's web sites offer such features as a personalised news service, electronic mail via the Web, an online community centre, public and private meeting rooms and interactive conversations, and guest interviews. AOL currently has over 18m subscribers and an estimated 100m monthly users. AOL should benefit largely from the growth in traffic, advertising and e-commerce, NCB says. Yahoo It has a current price $152 and a 52-week high of $244 and 52-week low of $29½. Yahoo Inc, a global internet media company, offers an online guide to Web navigation, aggregated information content, communication services and e-commerce. The company's web site includes a subject-based directory of web sites, which enables users to locate and access desired information and services through links included in the directory. This portal is the world leader with more than 60m registered users and an estimated 80m monthly users. It still remains one of the best places to gain access to potential online customers. Amazon.Com It is currently priced at $118 and has a 52-week high of $221¼ and a 52-week low of $21. Amazon.com Inc, an online retailer sells books, music, video-tapes, audio-tapes, and other products. The company offers a catalogue of around 3m titles, search features, e-mail services, web-based credit card payment, and direct postage to customers. It remains the number one online retailer, bar none, with over 10m customers. It is likely that it will be one of the greatest benefactors of the 1999 Christmas shopping spree. The company has recently added toys, electronics and auctions to its service offerings and the uptake bodes well for the future, according to Mr Poynton. Barnesandnoble.com It is currently priced at $18¾ with a 52-week high of $26 and a 52-week low of $14¼. Barnesandnoble.com Inc is an online retailer of books and information related products. The company's online bookstore offers customers a catalogue of books, secure ordering, fast delivery, email book reviews, a search engine, a software superstore and one-click ordering. It has been regaining some market share from Amazon, and NCB expects this process will continue there is plenty of customers for both retailers to prosper. Lycos It is currently priced at $44 and has a 52-week high of $72 with a 52-week low of $10. Lycos Inc is a leading web media company and the owner of the Lycos Network, one of the most visited hubs on the internet, reaching around one out of every two web users.  The Lycos Network is a unified set of web sites that attracts a diverse audience by offering a variety of services, including leading web navigation resources, home-page building and other web community services and a shopping service. 
