stocks
{ JIM AUGHNEY 
    August 11 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sharing-in-stock-markets-summer-chill-26177068.html }
IT'S A correction not a collapse. But it looks like the good times are over. Anybody concerned that the recent falls in stock market values, will mean that they will have no pension when they retire can relax. The falls have arisen partly because of the continuing and deepening Asian crisis and partly because of the growing UK recession. At first glance the signs are ominous. Yesterday in the US computer giant IBM was trading 2pc lower than the previous day, Dell was 3pc weaker and Intel was 2pc lower. Overall the New York stock market's Dow Jones indicator is 10pc down over the past three weeks. In the States there is growing concern that the problems in Japan will dampen any growth in turnover and earnings which companies like IBM, Dell and Intel had been expecting. However for the majority of Irish people whose stock market investments are limited to participation in a pension fund or ownership of a unit trust the picture is not so bleak. The fall of 2.62pc in the Dublin stock market yesterday on top of a similar fall the previous day are symptoms of a mid-Summer cold which the markets catch virtually every year. As any sufferer knows, a Summer cold can be prolonged, difficult to shake off and while not serious can be quite uncomfortable. The cause of the Summer cold stems from both outside and inside the Dublin financial market. The outside factor is New York. When they catch a bug in New York they invariably pass on some of the symptoms to the Dublin market. The other factor affecting the Dublin market this and every Summer is the protracted holiday season. With many investors both individual and institutional on annual leave at home and abroad, the market is in a doldrums period during which any deals which do take place tend to be small in comparison with other times of the year. People who want to sell their shares on the grounds of caution or simply because they need the money will find that there are few buyers for those shares. With many potential investors on holiday there is not the normal number of buyers who would take advantage of a perceived `buying opportunity' when prices fall. The principal reason why occupational and private pension funds will emerge relatively unscathed from the market setback in recent weeks lies in the strong performance of the Irish stock market in recent years and in the early part of this year. The Dublin stock market rose from an opening level of 4,054 points at the beginning of this year to a level of 5,170 at the end of June. That's a rise of 27.4pc over the first six months of this year which came on the back of strong performances in the preceding three years. Furthermore the market had performed even more strongly in the first four months with a gain of 31.5pc to the end of April. That's the equivalent of four of five years of `normal' growth. Many pension fund managers would have capitalised on those market gains and readjusted their portfolios given the expectation that Dublin stocks would not retain these heady levels. Another important point to remember when considering the effect of a stock market fall on one's pension fund is that in general barely 50pc of the average fund's assets will be invested in the stock markets. A sizeable proportion of the average pension fund is tied up in low risk areas like Government stocks and cash deposits with banks which are unaffected. There is even a benefit from occasional weaknesses in the stock market as it allows pension fund managers to purchase stock at lower prices using the cash flows which are deducted from contributors every week or month. The general consensus among analysts at home and abroad is that these recent setbacks may be signalling the end of the longest stock market `bull run' or sustained period of growth in living memory. Whether this is the case will not be known for another four or five weeks when the silly holiday season ends and the effects of the Asian crisis can be measured.  Those who have benefited from a few good years of rampant stock market growth may, like Joseph in the Old Testament, now expect a few lean years. 
