stocks
{  
    August 06 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/bear-market-sees-day-traders-lose-place-in-the-sun-26076287.html }
'Momentum arbitrage' has fallen on hard times in a declining market, reports CIARAN BUCKLEY. FALLING stock prices, low volumes and decimalisation are combining to make life difficult for the internet day-traders. Phil Potter, chief technology officer (CTO) at Mercury Trading, characterises day-trading as "momentum arbitrage". Arbitrage is a simple idea. If you buy oranges in Henry Street for 19p and sell them for 20p on Moore Street, then you're an arbitrageur. The problem is that the orange sellers on Henry Street will raise their prices to 20p as soon as they figure out what you're doing, or else the price of oranges on Moore Street will fall to 19p. That's where momentum enters the equation you need to have the oranges bought and sold before the market participants figure out that the market has moved, that orange prices "have momentum". Potter's Mercury Trading Securities LLC operates in a different city and in a different league. Mercury Trading is a day-trading operation in Manhattan, trading stocks on the technology-dominated Nasdaq market. Phil is wary of the term 'day-trader', because it conjures up images of the worst excesses of the technology bull market prior to the current slump that has left Irish technology companies unable to raise capital in the stock market. Day-traders don't work on the floor of the stock exchange. Instead they sit in gloomy offices with the blinds drawn, staring at computer screens, studying the bid and offer prices from the market-makers. The market-makers are the institutions which guarantee to provide liquidity for a stock, who guarantee to buy or sell the stock at a price which they set. If the day-traders notice an anomaly between the prices listed, then they buy the stock and sell it moments later at a slightly higher price. If they can buy 10,000 shares at $60 and sell them a few seconds later at $60.125, then they've made a profit of $1,250. Of course, if the stock drops, then they can lose the same amount or more in an equally short period. Day-trading was never for the faint of heart. Day-trading came about because of the democratisation of the stock markets in the 1990s. Prior to the availability of cheap high-performance computer equipment and the emergence of the SOES and ECN trading systems, it wasn't possible to compete with the large banks and brokerage houses. Those institutions controlled the markets and could be as slow and inefficient as they wished. But when the day-traders emerged, they had to start re-pricing more efficiently, to avoid being 'scalped' by the nimble day-traders. "The typical day-trader was young and relatively well-educated. They tended to be undirected career-wise and didn't want to wear a suit," comments Potter. "The idea of making good money by chiselling into the margins of the large institutions was enormously attractive to these people." The period between September 1998 and March 2000 was a great time for day-traders. Irish technology company Trintech moved from $7 to $75 in the six-month period between September 1999 and March 2000. During the same period, Baltimore Technologies moved from $6 per share to $44 per share. When there is that much momentum, it's difficult for the market-makers to keep up with the price changes, which suited the day-traders. When the momentum is always upwards, it's easy for the day-traders to make money, because you could always sell the stock onwards at a higher price. Hi-tech IPOs were also popular with day-traders because the stocks had huge volumes relative to the number of available shares. Because the demand for stocks was so high and the supply so limited, the stock price tended to leap, by as much as a few dollars in a few minutes. The momentum was further fuelled by ordinary members of the public who were trading hi-tech stocks across the internet, using online brokers like Datek Online or E-Trade. Fergal Duffy, who works for a financial software company in Dublin, formed the Dundrum Investment Club with some of his fellow employees at the end of 1999. They each chipped in small amounts and set up a trading account with a popular online broker. They invested in the hi-tech and internet companies that were popular at the time. "At first we made money, along with everybody else. Then the market fell and we got burned." The Dundrum Investment Club no longer trades. "People lost touch with reality during that period," observes Phil Potter. "It's the 'greater fool' theory. The people who know the markets sell to people who know less. They sell to people who know less again, until the people who know least end up owning the stock, at the highest price. The last person in line is the market fool. Once they realise that the stock is hopelessly overvalued they sell in a panic and the market comes tumbling down." In the spring of 2000, investors became disenchanted with internet stocks and stock prices collapsed, ending a five-year bull market. Now the momentum of the stock market is downwards, not upwards. Now you can buy Baltimore Technologies for under a dollar per share and Trintech for around two dollars per share. The bear market has put an end to the 'bull market traders', people who made money simply because stock prices were moving up so quickly. Phil Potter remarked: "The bull market traders are the ones who made a fortune in 1999 and 2000 and who lost their shirts in 2001." It is possible to make money in a falling market by 'shorting' a stock, a trading method whereby you sell a stock and then buy it back at a lower price. But it's very hard to make money this way, because there are many restrictions on the practice. Trading volumes have also decreased sharply since last year. Baltimore Technologies' volume is down from five million shares per day in March, 2000 to 1.5 million in June, 2001. Lower volumes reflect lower demand and if there is no demand then there is no momentum. Mick Buckley, a native of Dublin who's been trading in New York for the past six years, observed: "Volumes are thinner. If I put in an order, my order alone is enough to move the stock higher. But when I want to sell, my sell order drags the market down." Decimalisation also puts the brakes on momentum trading. Traditionally, stock market prices moved in increments of one-eighth. If a stock was trading at $20 and the price increased, it would increment by one-eighth of a dollar to $20.125. This system dates from the days when stocks were traded in Spanish reals. The Spanish real could literally be split into eight pieces, to make change as required. Though stocks are now traded in dollars, prices were incremented in eighths until quite recently. Recent changes in the law mean that stocks are now priced in cents. So when the price of a stock increases incrementally, it will only rise a cent. This cuts its momentum and day-traders can only hope to scalp a few cents from a moving stock, instead of an eighth or a quarter. If you buy 10,000 Trintech shares and sell when the market moves by one cent, you only make $100. Phil Potter is optimistic about the future of day-trading. "The fall of the Nasdaq removed a lot of froth from the market. But the best traders are still making money. Day-trading is a skill, a craft, which rewards people who learn how the markets work and exploits its inefficiencies." In the long term, the democratisation of the stock market brought about by automation and the internet will lead to greater efficiency in the stock markets, which will work to the advantage of retail investors and those companies who need to raise capital in the markets. 
