stocks
{ By DOMINIC  CUNNINGHAM 
    September 20 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/how-to-pick-yourself-a-winning-stock-26109680.html }
Investing in the stock market is by no means an exact science  but it makes sense to do your research. Aileen Power  provides would-be investors with a step-by-step guide SMALL Eircom investors have received hard lessons about the dangers of stock market investment in the last year and don't need to be reminded that markets go down as well as up. But for investors who are prepared to look at stock market investment for the long haul and want to build up a stock portfolio, here are some useful guidelines: 1) Don't invest money that you cannot afford to be without for at least five years. If you need to sell your shares in the short term, you risk taking a loss on your investment. 2) Join an investment club and spread your risk among a number of shares by pooling resources with fellow members. The Investment Club Network (TICN) is an organisation that helps members who are new to stock market investment. Membership is free once you have joined an investment club. TICN also runs weekend training seminars. For further information, contact Eamonn Blaney tel: 074-58585. 3) Don't borrow money to buy shares unless you are due money which would re-pay the loan very quickly. Personal loan rates of 11 and 12 pc are costly when dividends are in low single digits or even worse, non-existent. Borrowing to buy shares and hoping for a quick killing in the market is a high-risk strategy. 4) Buy a good company but not one that has all the good news already `priced into' it. There is no point in buying a company which is fully valued vis-a-vis its peers. For example, Parthus, the Irish silicon chip designer is a good company but it looks expensive. ``Its share price has built in expectations of 60 times sales,'' said John Coolican, head of technology research with Merrion Capital. ``This compares with Eircom's share price which has built in expectations of only 2.6 times sales,'' he said. 5) Companies are a bit like people's characters. Good companies tend to remain good and bad companies remain bad. How strong is the management team? Does the company have a good growth track record? Has it consistently grown profits, expanded its market share. Has it made shrewd acquisitions? The bad news is corporate ugly ducklings tend to remain, well just that. Betting on them turning into swans is statistically a mug's game. 6) ``You need to know whether the company is solvent or not,'' said Eamonn Leonard, senior analyst with BCP stockbrokers. ``I like to look at sales growth, profitability, enterprise value (market capitalisation plus debt), EBITDA, cashflow and Net Asset Value (a measure used to evaluate a company's assets),'' he said. For start-up, high-growth companies who spend large amounts of capital, analysts will look at the rate at which they `burn' through cash. If a company has only sufficient cash to last a few months before it starts making money, there is obviously a serious problem ahead. 7) Is it cheap or expensive vis-a-vis its history? Compare it to its relevant global peer group. It is important to look at valuation measures relative to the history of the stock. The objective is to identify stocks which are relatively cheap vis-a-vis their sector. Examples are the Irish banks which have low P/Es of about 10 and 11 vis-a-vis their international peers. The P/E ratio is the stock price divided by the projected earnings figure. P/Es are used to compare companies within the same sector while the more popular Price, earnings growth (PEG) ratio is used to compare valuations across sectors as it includes the percentage growth being achieved by companies. But be aware that just because a stock is cheap doesn't mean it is undervalued or that it is certain to perform. Sometimes equities are cheap for a good reason. The sector may be viewed as low growth or the company may be viewed as having poor management. Sometimes stocks are cheap for no good reason. Make sure you know why the stock is doing badly. 8) Ignore internet chat room hot tips; they're more likely to be phoney investors trying to manipulate the market to their own advantage. 9) Earnings momentum. A company with superior growth should translate itself into above average earnings per share growth (EPS) and cash flow. Ideally you'd like to see an identifiable pattern of the company's growth forecasts being consistently upgraded. 10) Another measure is how the share price behaves technically. Look for stocks that have shown good price behaviour. Ideally, the share will have had positive price momentum without becoming technically `overbought'. 11) Market capitalisation/liquidity. Market cap is the share price of the company multiplied by the number of shares outstanding. It is a measure of the size and valuation of the company. The larger the market cap the easier it is to trade (buy or sell) the stock in question. Stock market investment is an art not an exact science. Even if your stock selection fulfils all the above criteria it doesn't guarantee success. However, you should have a better chance than others who haven't done research. 
