stocks
{  
    December 29 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/monkey-again-flays-the-experts-26246402.html }
Embarrassed by the dreadful investment returns of fund managers and brokers in our annual contest in recent years, we at the Sunday Independent have dumped them. For 10 years, we have pitted a monkey against Ireland's investment "experts". Next week, we will reveal the performan Embarrassed by the dreadful investment returns of fund managers and brokers in our annual contest in recent years, we at the Sunday Independent have dumped them. For 10 years, we have pitted a monkey against Ireland's investment "experts". Next week, we will reveal the performance of these "experts" who make fortunes giving financial advice against the random selection of a complete amateur throwing darts at a list of possible investments. The results are again sensational, showing that the "experts" have been routed. The most up-to-date indications suggest that the monkey will beat them by a distance. So we dropped them. So, for 2003, we have instead asked five interested outsiders to compete with the monkey and of course each other. Five high-profile Irish people have agreed to pick their stocks for 2003 and to predict the level of the ISEQ on December 31, 2003. Their performance cannot be worse than the record of the fund managers and stockbrokers who have consistently proved inferior to the monkey. THE MONKEY THE markets have not yet closed for the year 2002, but it can be pretty reliably predicted that the monkey will beat the ISEQ index by a staggering 40 per cent. And that's not the end of the story. His stocks outperformed pretty much every financial index in the world, beating: The Dow Jones Average, by around 35 per cent. The S&P 500 by 41 per cent. The Footsie 100 by 37 per cent. The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 by 45 per cent. But most importantly, he also walloped the experts who competed against him. Not one single "expert" stock-picker from the battery of stockbroker specialists who went head-to-head with the monkey did better than to suffer a 20 per cent loss on their portfolios. Meanwhile, the Sunday Independent chimp managed an average portfolio gain of more than 17 per cent. In the 10 or so years since the monkey was first asked to aim six darts at the stock exchange list and chart his progress, he has seldom if ever failed. Most of the time, he outsmarts the ranks of "experts" as he did this year. And in those 10 years, he's managed to stay in the top two of performers for at least 60 per cent of the time. And nervous investors will appreciate that even when his success rate has been more modest, he has never been the worst performer. This year, the same spectacular monkey has been asked to defend his title. Flushed with success, he has picked up his darts and flung them at the target. This time they have all landed in a small mid-cap section of the market. The mindless monkey could almost have been accused of a defensive strategy of picking solid second-line stocks with good track records. If he is to succeed, he will need to see a recovery in depressed shares like IFG and controversial dairy company Glanbia both recently in the doldrums. He has gambled on one of the most successful stock market entries in recent years, Paddy Power Bookmakers despite managing director Stewart Kenny having stepped aside. He completed his totally random selection with Riverdeep, United Drug and Grafton Group. His great skill in avoiding market horror stories like Elan (so beloved of the experts) was one of the reasons for his runaway victory. On the face of it, he is not likely to be facing any nasty hidden explosions in this year's chosen portfolio. In a new move, we asked the monkey to throw his dart at the ISEQ index and give us his random pick for its level on December 31, 2003. His choice: a rise of ten per cent and a year-end finish at 4,400. JOHN TEELING, businessman I'VE SEEN enough of the contortions of the marketplace to recognise uncertainty and I'm not optimistic about prospects for the coming year. Ireland is not immune to the very uncertain political and economic problems affecting the state of the world and once you add our own domestic problems to the mix, the best advice may be to keep your hand in your pocket. On the other hand, stock markets anticipate developments up to 18 months in advance, so if there is a 2004 economic recovery in a post-Saddam world, share prices should rise during 2003. But remember the famous economist who said that his fellow economists usually make predictions because they are asked, not because they know. I really don't know. However, on balance, I feel that prices have bottomed, but I would be leery of buying the market. However, special situations may prove rewarding. There are a number of value prospects on the Dublin Stock Exchange. A spread across Unidare, Oakhill and Gresham might prove rewarding. Greencore is starting to look value. The resource sector looks cheap. Gold looks good and oil prices are flying. Among my own personal listed ventures, the two producers African Gold and Pan Andean look good value. Just be careful. Regarding the ISEQ Index, the monkey knows knows as much as I do. It will either be up or down and yes, I know that's not an answer. If there is a recovery, it will be sharp and strong. And given that there has never been four down years since 1929, I will target 4,800. BEVERLY COOPER FLYNN, TD THE following are six stocks that I would buy on the ISEQ in 2003. Anglo Irish Bank recently produced another excellent set of results yet again proving the quality of management and company. The stock is currently trading at ?6.50 and is on a p/e of 9.7 times next year's earnings, compared to an average p/e of 14 times for 2002. ?8 is not an ambitious 12- to 18-month target. Another financial, Bank of Ireland, is my second pick for 2003. Trading at ?9.60 at the time of writing (only lower once before during the year), the stock is on 9.6 times 2003 forecast earnings, a slight discount to the European average. At these levels, it's a solid investment. Greencore and Glanbia, the two large food companies outside the top ten in terms of market capitalisation on the ISEQ, are my next two picks. Greencore, with a yield of 4.7 per cent, has come through some major changes during the past year and Davy believe they can grow annual earnings at an average of 10 per cent over the medium-term. If achieved, the market should reward it in terms of pride appreciation. As Glanbia's scale and scope of activity increases, including its focus on human nutrition, the potential for a re-rating of its price improves. At ?1.47, the stock looks good value. While the outlook for @@STYL cf,milb Grafton's Irish business is not favourable, its UK business continues to thrive, which will be the main contributor to double digit growth for this year. At ?3.25, the stock is on 8.5 times December 2002 earnings, making it look good value. My final suggestion for 2003 is Ryanair. Given current earnings momentum, this stock has the potential to trade close to ?10 over a 18-24 month horizon. It is currently trading around ?6.90. My view on the overall market is that we may see the major benchmarks recording negative returns for the fourth year in a row, as a sustained recovery will not prevail until certain economic conditions are reversed (in particular, the current account deficit in the US). Yet again, the ISEQ outperformed the Eurotop 300 in 2002, and this is possible again in 2003. I forecast the ISEQ to be flat at 4,000 for 2003, unless we see any major global economic improvements. DAVID McWILLIAMS, journalist IT IS very difficult to get into the mood to buy anything this time of year. Following three years of losses, the experts are telling me that it's time to get back into equities. I still can't find a good reason. There has to be a better argument than the one which is doing the rounds in Dublin these days let's call it the "asset of last resort" approach to investing. This argument maintains that because bond yields are low, corporate credits not low enough, interest rates still headed downwards and currencies uncertain, there is no place left to put cash other than in equities. The assumption here is that something will happen next year to make the equity market rally once the money has been placed. But if money is being spent with no other catalyst, then rather than buy, this is in fact a good time to sell into the suckers' rally of last resort. Consequently, I predict the ISEQ won't be much more than 3,800 at the end of the year. Currencies, rather than equities, may be interesting as the fall in the dollar is the one clear trend that can be forecast with a small degree of certainty. So if you have cash to spend, you should bet against the dollar. The decoupling of sterling against the dollar might continue, implying the UK currency is a good place to start. As for Irish stocks, these are the four that I do not think will fall (I know the feature calls for my picking six shares, but four is as many as I can muster). All bets are defensive. Paddy Power did well this year and should continue to perform strongly. Growth prospects are strong both in Ireland and in the UK. Expansion in the UK is on the cards, the company is well-managed and the stock reasonably priced, vis-a-vis its peers. DCC: Because it is cheap and well diversified. The group is currently trading on a current p/e of 10 times and a consensus 2003 p/e of 8.9 times. This appears to be cheap relative to its sector. It's also nicely exposed to the UK which looks to be one of the only growth areas next year. Jurys: Because every time I see a group of British tourists in Dublin, they seem to be staying at one of the Jurys Inns. Most importantly, it is beginning to replicate the strategy with real success in the UK, which will be the main driver next year. Irish Life & Permanent: The brokers tell me that, at current levels, its potential to generate substantial surplus capital over the next two years is significant. If they are right, this could then be used to fund further share buyback programmes which means someone buying your shares back at a higher price. Fair enough, unless the housing market suddenly starts to wobble. PASCHAL TAGGAR, accountant WITH THE German economy under extreme pressure, the French economy under pressure and the UK and US economies uncertain, I believe 2003 will be a very tough year for Irish businesses. The rapid rises in recent year of property costs, wage costs and insurance costs will put tremendous pressures on cash flows and unfortunately I would expect a significant increase in the number of firms going into liquidation. The result will be a rise in unemployment, which in turn will mean weaker sales. As the old saying goes: "When the going gets tough, the tough get going." Therefore, in selecting my six shares for 2003, I am going for strong impressive management who will ride out what I feel will be a very difficult financial year. Allied Irish Banks: I know Michael Buckley and many of his senior management well. They are both tough and resourceful and I would be very confident they will maximise the bank profits in 2003. With interest levels almost certain to remain low for the coming year and the fact that in the past AIB have provided a good dividend stream, they can be viewed as both a defensive investment and a source of income. Anglo Irish Banks: Sean Fitzpatrick and his extremely able team have been outstandingly successful in recent years and I see no reason why 2003 should be any different. As I know from personal experience they make decisions very quickly, charge high commitment fees and at least 1 or 2 per cent more than the other banks, not to mention PG Tips (personal guarantees). It is truly amazing the number of big hitters who love Seanie and Co and another bumper year looks on the cards. Bank of Ireland: I have never met Michael Soden but I was one of the few people who thought he was absolutely right to have a go at Abbey National. It will be interesting to plot the paths of both banks in 2003. I know which bank my money will be on and it won't be Abbey. I know from my high-level contacts in BoI that Michael is very successfully driving down costs and even though business will be tough I expect Bank of Ireland to more than hold its own next year. Datalex: This share shouldn't even feature on the same page, not to mention the same book as the other five I have selected. However, as I am a director, I believe Neil Beck (our new CEO) has the toughness and vision to drive Datalex's business forward. He has already slashed costs and is now concentrating on increasing revenues. With a strong cash balance, any meaningful profit would be very advantageous to the share price. However, gains will be hard won, as the IT sector is still experiencing very difficult trading conditions. IAWS: Oh, why did I not stick to IAWS instead of buying those stupid IT and Telecom stocks? Philip Lynch and his team are truly outstanding (I will get my Cuisine De France bread free for a year for saying this) and I expect their invasion of the US and Canadian bread markets to be very successful in 2003. Ryanair: Michael O'Leary is a heavyweight when it comes to toughness. However, his vision and energy are also outstanding. Although I don't mind my children and most of my colleagues flying Ryanair all the time, I will still want to use a slightly higher-priced airline who will indulge me and where I can use the hospitality suites. I believe a good result will be for the ISEQ to maintain its existing level of 3,850. JOE O'TOOLE, ICTU president WE NEED to buy low when dealing with a period as short as a year. Any appearances of political- or agenda-driven comments are purely intentional. When hard-pressed families have to borrow to compensate for miserable pay increases, the banks tend to do well and as the Bank of Ireland share price is the lowest of the banks just now (not having fully recovered from being jilted by that heartless Brit bank), they are attractive in the short-term. The ESB that exemplary semi-State insists on producing electricity so much more efficiently than any other such utility in Europe that consequently none of the wimps in the private sector can compete with them, despite having the market door jammed open for them by an EU directive. None, that is, except Viridian which has now started generating. If they can stand toe to toe with our semi-State they must be good. Plus they are paying an attractive dividend, which will also be reckoned at year-end. Pat McDonagh, whom I have known for many years, is a great role model as a caring entrepreneur with a real commitment to a more inclusive society. I greatly admire him. More to the point, if he takes Riverdeep private, it will be at a significant gain to current price. To put a hi-tech in the portfolio, we'll have a punt on Riverdeep. Pharmaceuticals is where the big action will be in the medium-term, and Galen just might be leading early on, so stick them into the portfolio too. Out of fashion IWP are available at a bargain basement price (certainly not the pet of the fund managers). But the price is low, and that shrewd Kerryman Joe Moran keeps buying them so in case he knows something, and rather than be left out, we will take a chance on them as well. Greencore might still be a bargain to finish and even the monkey has to eat. So now, let's sit back and wait to collect. And thanks Sir Anthony and Senator Ross for giving me all this loot to invest. Where did you guys make it? I forecast a 15 per cent rise in the market to 4,666 those last three numbers being a warning from Mammon. 
