stocks
{ Pat Boyle 
    April 04 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/stock-lending-and-short-sales-deepen-bear-market-26089019.html }
IRISH investors could unwittingly be part of a concerted effort to drive stock prices lower because of the introduction of stock lending by the Stock E IRISH investors could unwittingly be part of a concerted effort to drive stock prices lower because of the introduction of stock lending by the Stock Exchange last year. The practice, known as 'selling short' involves traders selling shares they do not own in the hope that they can then buy them back cheaper when the share price has fallen. The practice has been facilitated by the introduction of stock lending to the Irish market last year. By selling large volumes of stock the price is forced down, allowing them to be bought back cheaper and leaving the trader with a profit margin. Traders can borrow stock from big fund managers and then sell the shares, with up to a year in which to repay the shares. The practice has been widespread in overseas market for years. Tom Healy, general manager of the Irish Stock Exchange said that last year the rules had been changed to allow stock lending in Irish shares. At the same time the Revenue Commissioners gave the practice the green light, exempting parties from capital gains tax as the loan of shares is not considered a sale. The Stock Exchange points to the beneficial affects of stock lending, including increasing liquidity there are effectively more shares to trade. It also says it facilitates timely settlement of accounts and enhances "the trading strategies and opportunities available in Irish securities". However experts point out that it also increases volatility, and can be used to propagate a bear market where share prices continue falling for a lengthy period. Taking advantage of a bear market is, of course, a legitimate trading strategy and has been done for years. Many market watchers believe we are now in the midst of such a bear market, with the ISEQ Index down this year. But in London experts say share-price falls are being exaggerated by the explosion of stock lending. Among the big fund managers who lend shares in Dublin is Bank of Ireland Security Services. Fund managers see stock lending as a legitimate means of making money out of their huge share portfolios, most of them held on behalf of private shareholders or pension funds for the long term. While the practice is only new in Ireland, some UK market watchers believe it is having a negative effect, pushing prices down despite a preponderance of buyers in the market. 
