stocks
{ Cyril Hariman 
    July 27 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/stock-markets-back-doing-the-business-25977513.html }
In the last two years share prices have rebounded strongly from the dotcom fallout slump up to April 2003. Irish stocks have done really well and analysts are still bullish IT'S been a good year so far for share prices around Europe, and the consensus seems to be that there continues to be upside in markets. Irish shares have been well up to the pace, if one ignores the slump in Elan stock earlier this year. The ISEQ Overall index of Dublin shares has risen by about 9pc including the impact of Elan, but around 14pc when it is ignored. This compares with a 9pc rise in London's FTSE-100, gains averaging 12.5pc for Europe's three principal indicators - the Eurostoxx 50, Paris's CAC and Frankfurt's DAX. US equities have, in contrast, been largely flat in 2005. Wall Street has been held back by a combination of rising interest rates, soaring oil prices and concerns over Iraq. The sluggish trend may also support the widely held theory that American stocks went ahead too far, too fast in the early stages of the current rally. This rally, with blips here and there, has been under way now for more than two years, ever since early spring 2003 when the post dotcom-inspired bear market started to bottom out. The ISEQ has risen by a whopping 3,000 points since then. One of the highlights of 2005 is the way markets in Europe have finally managed to pull out from under the spectre of Wall Street, for long the overriding influence on trends on this side of the Atlantic. The average rise in Irish share prices at 14pc, as tracked by the ISEQ overall index, stands up well in international comparison, but astute stock selection will have earned many investors a return over and above this percentage in the period. Leaving aside the three resource stocks - Kenmare, Provident and Dragon Oil - which lead the performance table seven months into the year, around 20 mainstream industrial and financial stocks have also beaten the market. Unidare, FBD, IFG and Kingspan have each risen by circa 50pc or more so far this year, and are now selling at or near record highs. The consensus view among market professionals appears to be positive in terms of the rest of the year and into the foreseeable future. "The valuations are still reasonable," said Pramit Ghose, of Bloxham Stockbrokers. Rory Gillen, the head of equity research at Merrion Stockbrokers, remains convinced "there's no place like equities for your money". He says that values continue to stand up really well against interest rates, noting that a blue-chip stock, such as CRH, can now be bought on an earnings yield of just under 8pc when European bonds are only yielding 3.3pc. Merrion's Ten Stock Portfolio has appreciated by almost 24pc year-to-date, just underlining how a stock selection strategy can yield above-average returns. Gerry Mangan, equity analyst at Foreign & Colonial in Dublin, is a tad more cautious at this stage of the market's run. "We've had a very good run recently, and while I think stocks can still move ahead, I fear we may be a bit complacent." Mr Ghose is also an aficionado of the earnings yield - which calculates the maximum yield were a company to pay out its entire EPS and not retain profit in the business - as a key valuation tool. Based on the average PE (price/earnings ratio) of European stocks currently at 13 times, this gives an average earnings yield of 7.7pc. "This is twice what you can earn on bonds," says Mr Ghose, "and more than you could expect from buying a house and renting it out." While the three resource stocks heading the performance list this year largely reflect the surge in oil and commodity prices generally, the factors driving the other high-flyers vary. Unidare, top of the pile with a 60pc price rise, is benefiting from the restructuring of a problem business that is now generating strong profits and has returned to the dividend list after a gap of years. Insurance group FBD has seen phenomenal share-price appreciation of 350pc over the past two years. Momentum, initially driven by the booming general insurance market, has been further spiced up by wider free float in the stock following the buyout of Belgium's KBC. FBD is generating significant new capital, and this has raised the prospect of some being returned to shareholders either as increased dividends or through further share buybacks. Kingspan has merely continued the strong price growth seen in 2004 and reflects upgrades in the group's EPS outlook. C&C stands out among the other high-flyers. The stock's rise hinges heavily on the success of the Magners cider brand which was recently launched in London. Expectations are very high. Ryanair took a bit of a hammering early spring when its profit figures disappointed, but the stock has rebounded strongly since then. Outside of Elan, which has crashed 70pc year-to-date, ferry operator Irish Continental Group has disappointed and is down 10pc. The company has yet to resolve its difficulties with the unions involved, and only for the fact that the market believes a management buyout may be round the corner, the share would arguably have slipped more. 
