stocks
{ DAVID MURPHY 
    July 07 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/uk-germany-bid-to-create-pan-european-stock-market-26179713.html }
THE LONDON Stock Exchange and its German arch rival, Deutsche Borse, yesterday took the first historic step to creating a single European stock market. The move is the first in what is expected to be a series of alliances in European stock markets, one of which is predicted to involve the Dublin stock exchange linking with Paris. London and the Frankfurt-based exchange unveiled plans to form a strategic alliance and set up a pan-European market in shares in 300 blue-chip companies. The landmark move, which ends years of rivalry between the organisations, will create the second largest stock market in the world after the New York Stock Exchange, worth nearly two trillion pounds. And the creation of the new market will eventually allow British private investors to buy German stocks on the high street. The chief executive of the Dublin Stock Exchange, Tom Healy, said that it was working on establishing an electronic market which would allow Irish shares to be traded internationally. It is understood that Dublin has been in talks with the Paris market to set up an electronic platform. This would give Irish shares much greater visibility to international investors, although they would be listed in Dublin. Irish stocks could join foreign shares which are listed on other markets but which trade in the same sector, like technology or financial stocks. ``The Irish stock market would be in an electronic market and fund managers internationally could pick a sector,'' Mr Healy said. He added the move to the electronic platforms was being driven by the arrival of the single european currency, the trend of moving funds from bonds to equities and major investment by pension funds in stocks. The Irish Stock Exchange would join the new European electronic hub by the end of next year, he predicted. In the coming years, there will be three or four major European platforms for trading shares and the Nordic countries have said that they would join forces to create a similar hub. German Deutsche Borse chief executive Werner Seifert hailed the deal with the London exchange as a breakthrough. ``The goal of the alliance is to deliver a low cost, efficient and accessible equity market infrastructure to enable issuers, investors and market participants to take full advantage of the opportunities arising from the development of a pan-European capital market.  ``Today, we start the process of harmonising the rules, conventions and technology, accessing the respective markets.'' 
