stocks
{  
    November 02 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/not-the-future-we-expected-to-face-26353459.html }
How things have changed for the Irish technology sector THE past ten years have been a sobering time for the Irish technology sector. Like the rest of the world we went from boom to bust and, unlike the US - where giants like IBM, Apple, Intel and numerous others still dominate stock exchanges - we, at most, are now looking at a handful of small and mid-capitalisation companies. Despite strong performances from listed companies like Iona Technologies and Horizon, the Irish technology sector is a shadow of its former self, where minnows compete for investment with much bigger traditional sectors like the banks and construction. One survivor, and exception to the size rule, is e-learning company Riverdeep. The company is about to sew up a deal with a US firm that will create a new group worth about $4.5bn. Riverdeep is buying Houghton Mifflin, a company with more than $1.2bn in sales. Tony Lucki, the chief executive of Houghton Mifflin, was previously a director of Riverdeep when he worked in a firm that invested in Riverdeep back in 2001. The Irish company was founded by technology entrepreneur Pat McDonagh, who hired 60pc shareholder in Riverdeep Barry O'Callaghan in 1999. The firm was floated on the Nasdaq in 2000. In 2003, he took the company private in a management buyout that valued it at $373.3m and the firm has since refinanced and bought out its venture capital partners. It is understood that Mr O'Callaghan and other members of the management team will have a controlling 51pc stake in the new entity, valued at up to $1bn. (Interestingly, another of the more successful Irish technology firms was an MBO target, card payments firm Alphyra). But despite all the talk of the information society in Ireland, it is very unlikely that the sector will ever be as sexy as it was in its heyday - even though many of the companies around now are much leaner and do actually have a profitability track record, unlike some of the boomtime stars like Baltimore Technologies. "The truth is that without the US multinationals in Ireland we wouldn't really have a technology sector," said one broker, who didn't wish to be named. He added that the size of the Irish techie sector alone is often a deterrent for investors. For example, if you combine the market capitalisations of all the listed Irish technology firms like Norkom, Calyx, Iona, Trintech and Horizon, they still account for less than 1pc of the ISEQ. Iona represents about 0.134pc of the market, while Norkom has 0.112pc and none of the indigenous Irish techie stocks are in the list of the top 30 firms on the Irish Stock Exchange. "While a number of these firms like Iona and Horizon actually produce products, because they are so small investors often just ignore them," he said. Back in the day, we had the likes of Baltimore Technologies. Once valued at £7bn, the company, which was founded by former FAI boss Fran Rooney, was once one of the top 100 companies on the London Stock Exchange. He was also the biggest shareholder of the firm, with a personal fortune estimated at £250m before the stock market collapse. Mr Rooney later teamed up with another 1990s high-flyer, Marlborough Recruitment's David McKenna, with mobile software firm Vimio, which is now listed on London's fledgling AIM market. However, he resigned as chairman of the company unexpectedly earlier this year. Baltimore has since gone through more image changes than Michael Jackson. According to NCB Stockbrokers analyst Tricia McEvoy, while she expects more Irish companies to look at listings on IEX and AIM, the big days of Nasdaq-mania are over. "There is scope for growth in the sector," she said. "But for the moment I expect many of the smaller firms to stick to private equity funding or listings on smaller markets. "Listing requirements for some of these companies on markets like the Nasdaq are too stringent." This week, mobile data services firm Zamona listed on London's AIM and raised up to ?6m in the process. Although very small, the company was formed in 2000 to take advantage of the mobile services market and is now a leader in Ireland, with a strong presence in the UK. It has also moved into Australia. Other mobile technology firms have been less lucky this year. Chaired by serial entrepreneur Pierce Casey, Getmobile was created after Fitzwilliam Capital changed its name following a ?65m fund-raising. For those who took an interest in the stock at close to the 95c level, Getmobile has been a bitter disappointment to date. An unexpected profit warning in October - based on sluggish sales in the company's primary German market - saw the shares collapse to 55c, and they later tumbled to 35c. From a high of 100c to a low of 35c in the space of a few months marked a pretty sharp downturn, even for an IT/telecoms company. One sector that is producing some interesting firms is biotechnology. Recently Icon, a global provider of outsourced development services to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, recorded a 40pc increase in net revenue. The company, although still a minnow, also announced a 63pc hike in operating income for the third quarter ended September 30. Another small biotechnology company making waves is Alltracel. Keeping the indigenous technology sector alive is a cause of concern for the Irish Software Association (ISA). In its recent pre-Budget submission, the body said that this needed to be addressed if a strong entrepreneurial culture is to be maintained in Ireland. The ISA is looking for the extension of the Business Expansion Scheme (BES), the Seed Capital Scheme (SCS) and improvements to the Government's R&D tax credit scheme in a bid to encourage investment in the sector. It is also seeking an increase to ?1.5m in the investment limits a company can raise, currently limited to ?1m, and a rise on the limits on personal investments to over ?250,000 per annum, now set at ?31,750. The ISA said that these changes are necessary if the industry is to achieve its potential annual revenues ?7.5bn by 2010 and increase the number of people employed in the sector. "If we are to continue to compete globally, we must increase the amount invested in R&D," said Michelle Quinn, director of the ISA. "It is currently more suitable to larger, established, tax liability companies who are already carrying out R&D."  Google: 'the only major Net stock people want' THE US dominates the worldwide technology sector. Besides household names like Intel, Apple and Microsoft, a number of internet stocks have blossomed since the technology bubble burst at the turn of the century. The likes of Google, the world's biggest search engine, and Amazon have all turned heads. Shares of Web search leader Google set a fresh lifetime high of $480.78 last month on expectations of surging financial growth following a slew of Wall Street upgrades on the stock. Google shares surpassed a previous intraday trading high of $475.11 set on January 11 last. The stock fell to lows of around $330 in March. Google's market capitalisation now exceeds $146bn, higher than more established technology leaders, including IBM, Intel or Hewlett-Packard. The Mountain View, California company ranks 14th in overall US market terms, just behind Cisco Systems, at $148bn, but far behind No. 1-ranked Exxon Mobil, with a $416bn capitalisation. "Really the only major internet stock now that a lot of people want to own is Google," said Standard & Poor's equity analyst Scott Kessler, contrasting it to rivals such as Yahoo, eBay and IAC/InterActivecorp. Nonetheless, Kessler is taking a conservative view on Google stock. He downgraded his rating on Google stock to 'hold' from 'buy', having only raised his 12-month target price on the stock to $500 last week from $435 previously. Analysts said the nearly $60 stock price surge in the past three trading days reflects rising optimism about earnings for 2007 and into 2008. But it also renews debate among investors on how to value a company enjoying rapid growth in a sector - the internet - with a short track record of sustained performance. Recently, shares in online retailer Amazon traded as high as $37.55 when Amazon executives said that they expect to scale back the company's heavy spending on operations in a bid to boost its meagre profit margins. For the quarter ended September 30, Amazon.com reported that profits dropped more than a third on the cost of employee stock options and heavier spending on technology and marketing. Still, quarterly sales rose 24pc to $2.31bn, higher than the $2.25bn expected by analysts, as more people bought books, movies and other items on the company's websites. International sales surged 29pc to $1.05bn as Amazon pushed into the United Kingdom, Germany, France and China. Amazon.com has seen its profit margins squeezed by heavy spending on free-shipping promotions and a less-favourable product mix. Its net margin fell to less than 1pc of sales, while gross margin fell to 23.8pc of sales from 24.9pc a year ago, signalling that more of the company's sales are coming from less-profitable items. Yet Amazon.com forecast sales for all of 2006 between $10.35bn and $10.68bn, while analysts were expecting sales of $10.35bn. The company pegged full-year operating income between $339m and $429m, or a decline between 22pc and 1pc from 2005. The outlook "implies a mid-single-digit [profit] margin, clearly an improvement," according to a note written by Goldman Sachs analyst Anthony Noto. 
