stocks
{ John Donworth 
    October 27 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/searching-for-answers-to-curtins-stocking-dilemma-26578641.html }
What kind of a breeding season did you have on your farm this year? Were the figures as bad as the figures from Curtin's farm in Moorepark? These figures have received much comment from dairy farmers since they appeared a few weeks ago. The Curtin's farm stocking rate experiment has been created to investigate the potential for higher stocking rates on Irish farms post quotas through intensified production systems based on increased grass productivity and utilisation. If you didn't know, the figures are in the table, and they make for much soul searching as to what went wrong in 2009. It's the last line in table 1 (top) where the real meat is in the sandwich. Twenty per cent empty in the cows stocked at 2.5 livestock units/ha, 26pc empty in the medium stocking rate group (2.92 livestock units/ha), and 22pc empty in the cows stocked at the high stocking rate group (3.28 livestock units per ha). So, where does one look for an answer? Are the answers to be found in the data that is collected weekly on Curtin's farm.  Challenging Or is it just a case of atrocious weather in May, resulting in reduced dry matter intake and its impact on the ability of embryos to survive in a very challenging environment. While submission rates were pretty OK, conception rates to first service would indicate that one in every two embryos failed to progress. To look for answers, I firstly went back and looked at the body condition of the cows on February 2, 2009. The body condition score of the three groups on that date was as follows, and can be seen in table 2 (bottom right). The target average is 3.25 body condition score for a cow at calving. All the groups are above the critical minimum 3.25 body condition score. Cows lose condition score after calving but there are limits to this loss. Ideally, cows should only lose 0.25 to 0.30 of body condition score between calving and breeding. The target body condition score at breeding is 2.9, with a minimum of 2.75 and a maximum of 3.25. Grass growth rates were not what were expected during the first rotation at Curtin's, and cows grazed to very low residuals: 3.6, 3.4 and 3.3cm for the low, medium and high stocking rate groups. The allocation of feed per day was 14.0, 12.5kg and 12.1kg of dry matter respectively, while silage and concentrate were introduced to the cows on a number of occasions during the breeding season period. At these intakes and on an unstable diet cows were working extremely hard, particularly the medium and high stocking rate groups. So, as can be seen from the table, the cows calved down in the correct body condition score. The next milestone should be the body condition score at breeding on April 20. On April 19 pre-breeding, cows were the following body condition scores (table 3, below). Between calving and breeding, the low stocking rate group lost 0.40 of a body condition score, but these were on target. The medium stocking rate group lost 0.44 of a condition score, while the high stocking rate group were under more pressure. They lost 0.66 of a body condition score. Data from Frank Buckley's On-Farm Fertility Trial (1999/2000) shows that cows that lose more than 0.5 of a body condition score between calving and first service have a pregnancy rate at day 42 of 47pc. Cows at a condition score of 2.75 have a pregnancy rate of 57pc, while cows at a condition score of three or greater have a 42nd day pregnancy rate of 66pc. Curtin's figures for the 42 day pregnancy rate are quite close to what Frank Buckley's figures were for the on-farm fertility trial in 1999. So, is it the weight loss between calving and breeding that caused the problems at Curtin's? Certainly, while this appears to be the correct hypothesis for the medium and high stocking rate groups, it doesn't explain why the low stocking rate group still had 20pc of the cows empty. Undoubtedly, with poor weather conditions, unstable diet and necessity for on/off grazing during the worst of the weather, these cows were either just maintaining themselves or losing weight during the worst of the weather. While this is only the first year of data from this experiment and therefore no definitive conclusions can be drawn, the similarity in fertility performance across all groups suggests that the poor fertility performance relates more to the low levels of feed allocation and unstable animal diet before breeding rather than the feed management during or since the breeding season. Quota abolition will allow many dairy farms to increase stocking rates and solutions to the fertility problems observed here must be identified. So, what's being planned to address these fertility problems for next season? The cardinal rule of dairy herd management in early lactation is to enter the breeding season on a rising plane of nutrition with an almost exclusively grass diet. To ensure that this happens next season, the herd will calve six days later than this year, with a mean calving date of February 14, and additional grass cover will be carried through the winter to provide additional nutrition for the freshly calved herd. In addition, pre-grazing swards will be maintained at 1,200kg DM/hectare during rotation 2 next season which should allow the herd to achieve higher intakes with greater ease in the three weeks leading up to the breeding season. We'll have to wait and see if these changes tell a different tale in 2010. Irish Independent 
