stocks
{  
    February 08 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/internet-stocks-bubble-on-point-of-bursting-26159084.html }
AMBROSE EVANS-PRITCHARD in London sees a comparison between the speculative bubble on Wall Street in internet stocks and the twenties boom in radio stocks as economists warn that the internet boom may now qualify as the greatest speculative mania of all time THE fathers of the great bull market have spoken. American Internet stocks have risen to exorbitant levels. ``A gold-rush,'' said Bill Gates of Microsoft, the richest man in the world, warning investors against such ``monumental risk.'' ``A lottery,'' said a weary Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the US Federal Reserve. Senior economists of the big Wall Street houses are warning that the Internet boom may now qualify as the greatest speculative mania of all time. At the extreme, it has turned into mass delusion. Nothing else can explain the rocket-like stock trajectory of Active Apparel, for instance, a small, loss-making supplier of swimming costumes and jogging clothes, based in New York. Three months ago, it was in danger of going bust. The share price had fallen to 50 cents. The value of the firm had shrivelled to less than $2m. But the company had the entrepreneurial wit to save itself or at least its shareholders by opening a Web site to hawk its wares. On December 28, it went ``on line.'' The price jumped almost 1,000pc before the end of the afternoon, and almost doubled again the next day. Instantly, Active Apparel's largely hypothetical association with the Internet pushed the share price to $25, fifty times the value it had been able to command in mere hosiery. Even the genuine Internet companies are trading at prices that are detached from commercial reality. Amazon.com, which sells books and compact discs on the Internet, has never made a profit. In fact, its losses have been growing commensurately with its growth in retail sales. In the fourth quarter of 1998, it lost 14 cents a share, up from eight cents a share a year before. Yet this did not stop speculators bidding up the stock price by 966pc last year. Three weeks ago, the company was valued at more than $30bn, earning it the epithet of ``the single most expensive piece of publicly traded equity in the history of modern markets,'' from Merrill Lynch's Internet guru, Jonathan Cohen. America On Line, an access server, is worth more than Amazon, with a capitalisation of $78bn (more than Disney, and four times the American bank J P Morgan). But at least AOL can boast a few cents of profit. At $30bn, Amazon was worth more than all of America's booksellers combined. To justify such a price, the upstart would either have to corner most of the US book market, or control a great chunk of the market in the rest of the world, or both. This is not going to happen. Amazon's established rivals, Barnes & Noble and Borders, have already set up their own on-line book businesses. This exemplifies the problem with selling on the Internet: as soon as any company scores a success, it is inevitably copied by others, with no barriers to entry. Cut-throat competition is enforced by the ease with which customers can hop from Web site to Web site in search of the best bargains. Profit margins are razor-thin at best, and usually negative, as Amazon keeps finding to its cost. Stock mania, of course, is a recurrent feature of US financial history. It happened with railroads, airlines, the electronics and biotech booms, and its effects have usually been benign. The willingness of investors to roll the dice on new technology is one of the dynamic springs of US capitalism. But Internet speculation also evokes faintly menacing comparisons with the radio stock mania of the 1920s, which was not so benign. Like the world wide web today, radio technology in the 1920s was seen as a transforming force of huge potential. It emerged suddenly, after being monopolised by the US military during the First World War. At first it was pioneered by amateurs, and then seized on by corporate America as the sales of receivers soared. By the end of the 1920s, a third of American households had radios. The advertising potential seemed huge, but making money out of it was not as easy as investors imagined. One of the few firms that had succeeded in making a profit by 1928 was Radio Corporation of America, which created the first nationwide broadcast network and diversified into records and films. The stock value multiplied a hundredfold over the decade, while any other firm with a tangential tie to the radio industry was bid up to exorbitant highs in the final mad months of 1929. When the crash came, almost all the radio stocks vanished without trace. Shareholders in RCA, the best of the lot, did not recoup their investment until the late 1950s. Will the dominant Internet companies prove any more successful at justifying their bloated stock valuations once the frenzy is over? We may find out soon enough. There are signs that the bubble is starting to deflate. Over the past two weeks, Amazon has lost almost half its value, and others are starting to follow. The mania will surely end badly for a lot of people. The only question is whether the punishment will be confined to the gamblers themselves, who now number several million, or whether distress ``margin calls'' will lead to forced sales of collateral stocks on the overheated Nasdaq stock exchange and systemic consequences that could spread across the Atlantic.  Daily Telegraph, London 
