stocks
{  
    April 19 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/after-the-fall-the-future-of-the-dot-com-market-26120410.html }
Before TMT, life on the stock markets was so much less  volatile for investment managers like Pat Woods. So what  happened? Here he looks at the... Before TMT, life on the stock markets was so much less volatile for investment managers like Pat Woods. So what happened? Here he looks at the lead up to last week's market fall and gives his best prediction for what will happen next. THERE is no doubting the benefits that technology companies have brought to our lives. Where would we all be without PCs, mobile phones and even house alarms. Can you imagine not being able to follow the `Beckham haircut' for a full 15 minutes uninterrupted each weekend while Manchester United dish out another beating to one of their premiership rivals? Imagine the Irish economy without the thousands of jobs provided by the Microsofts and Intels of this world not to mention the personal fortunes that would never have been earned by all of our new techy millionaires. As an Investment Manager I sometimes feel that it would be great if we didn't have these companies to invest in. Stock markets would be a lot less volatile. Whatever became of quiet, dull and boring days at work! For boring is one word that certainly cannot be used to describe stock markets right now. Take last week. In the US, the technology laden Nasdaq index, having risen 4pc on the previous Friday, fell by 2pc, 3pc, 6pc, 7pc and 9pc on each of the next five days. Not that there was any real news - ok Motorola had a profits warning, but its not even a Nasdaq stock! Outside of the techs, JP Morgan, General Electric and ADC Telecom posted good earnings. Then investors appeared to use the weekend to have a re-think, at least temporarily. Monday and Tuesday of this week has seen the market rally by an impressive 5pc and 7pc respectively, though goodness knows what will happen on Wednesday afternoon, by which time this article will have gone to print. One thing is certain though, right now investors nerves are really being put to the test. Recent stock market weakness has seen investors' hard-earned gains of January, February and early March wiped out. Now we could be in danger of handing back at least some of the spectacular gains of the fourth quarter of 1999. And how far away the events of late 1999 seem now. Back in November and December the decision to invest in stock markets seemed to be a `no-brainer'. Almost every working day saw the broad stock market indices rise by 2 or 3pc and in the case of the `sexy techies' the gains were normally larger. And if you happened to be unlucky enough to be a boring old bank or food company then apparently all you needed to do was to have a dot.com strategy and your share price could also aspire to reaching the stratosphere. The question is why did all of this happen and just as importantly what is going on now? The answer to the first part is easy, there was lots of money around and investors wanted to spend it. At the risk of sounding obvious stock markets cannot rise unless there is money about. The price that I paid for my dot.com or oil shares can only go higher if someone else has the means to pay me a higher price. The astute investor will always spot a bargain, but just as often investors are driven to act by the force of greed. This was certainly the case in the final quarter of 1999. Many investors sensing the danger of losing out on huge potential gains in the popular sectors of technology, media and telecommunications (TMT) bought into markets, ignoring any `cheap or dear' issues. The rewards came in the form of continually rising stock prices. So to the second part of the question - what has been going on over the past couple of weeks? The answer is also relatively easy. Greed, at least temporarily, gave way to fear. Over the past few weeks, investors have generally begun to feel the `pain' of falling stock prices. Once again this has involved the `sexy TMT' sector, epitomised by the US Nasdaq index that is 30pc below the all time high it reached in early March. Leaving aside the causes of the initial fall, the fact is that some investors, fearing the possibility of losing all of their recent gains, have been bailing out. Fear has taken over, but importantly this is at a time when money has been getting tighter; interest rates are rising and banks are being warned by regulators to keep a tighter reign on customers borrowing to buy stocks. So, what happens next? Having mislaid recently my crystal ball I find it impossible to be 100pc certain, but here's my best assessment. Just as easily and as quickly as greed gave way to fear so we are likely quite soon to see the pendulum swing back again, as it may already have done judging by this week's events. Some investors have felt pain, but this is hardly a new phenomenon. It has happened many times recently, most notably in the third quarter of 1998. Buyers will return but this time they will be hunting for `cheaper TMT stocks' and taking a closer look at what these companies actually do, not just buying any company with dot.com in its name! What is less certain is how much they will be back with. There is no doubt that liquidity (money) in financial markets has become tighter. Interest rates are rising and the extra cash that Central Banks had made available to the financial system in late 1999, as a precaution for Y2K, is being sucked back out of the system. So it may be that when investors return they will have to be more selective about what they buy. But of course, while this is all very interesting it only affects the `suits' and has no real relevance for the majority of the population, right? Wrong! Whatever way it goes TMT will continue to have a profound effect on all of our lives. The process of technological advancement improves the quality of all our lives (although non-lovers of mobile phones may disagree I expect). While it is a process that can hardly be stopped, it can be stifled if access to capital becomes more difficult. The providers, namely venture capitalists and financial institutions, will continue to make this finance available so long as the required return is in prospect. We need to make money from TMT firms. More importantly, we all have a very personal interest in what happens to TMT shares, and all shares for that matter. They are after all a large chunk of our pension funds, the performance of which we all rely upon for our retirement. Of course, short-term gyrations are not really an issue when one is looking out 20 to 30 years. Increasingly too, the retail investor is turning to stock markets to give them the level of returns that used to be available in deposit accounts in pre-Euro days. The recent emergence of Technology Funds has further wetted the appetite, especially in light of returns earned by investors over the last twelve months. Indeed I have recently been amazed at the increasing number of Irish retail investors that I have spoken to who are investing directly in technology stocks, mostly in the US, either through a `friend' or their `friendly' online stockbroker. Amazing how technology aids technology! But of course the future of TMT stocks and their share-prices goes even deeper than this. It is estimated that 80,000 Irish jobs are directly in the technology sector, with twice that much again in industries dependent on their success. That's a lot of spending power for retailers, leisure companies, and all other service companies. In addition, there is the issue of the tax take enjoyed by the government from all of this. And I can't help wondering whether a new pay deal would have been as easily struck if a large segment of the workforce weren't earning the largest part of their income from employee share incentive schemes. Make no mistake about it, what happens to the Nasdaq has huge implications for every one of us. 
