stocks
{ PRAMIT GHOSE 
    December 27 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/long-term-outlook-positive-26102809.html }
MR Contrarian has a particular investment style  he has  a long-term investment horizon and enjoys picking up  bargains in blue chip quality stocks from distressed sellers  with his vast reserves of cash. The bull markets of the late 1990s have been an unhappy time for him, as highly priced growth stocks, particularly technology stocks, soared and soared. However, the last few months have put the smile back on Mr Contrarian's face. Technology stocks, which were priced for stratospheric growth, have collapsed. Closures of internet companies with no real business model are a common feature now. CMGI, a big US internet incubator company has seen its stock fall by some 90pc this year. Whatever about these dotcom stocks collapsing, we should be more concerned at the performance of the bellwether technology stocks like IBM, Intel, Hewlett Packard and Dell. There is clearly a global slowdown happening when big, global, experienced technology companies like these have to give not one, but two or three warnings to investors about slowing revenue growth in the space of a few months. All of these stocks have fallen some 30pc over the past few months and valuation levels are pricing in the end of the IT revolution. Mr Contrarian finds this hard to believe, as many companies around the world are still in the early stages of using technology to reduce costs and/or increase sales. He is happy to snap up these big technology names with price earnings ratios in the 20 to 25 times range. Looking at technology sectors, Mr Contrarian believes that the wireless/mobile space is going through an 'indigestion' phase, brought on by ludicrous bids for European 3G licences and disappointing content on WAP phones which made mobile users reluctant to upgrade. There is no doubt that developments in mobile phone technology over the next few years will have another significant impact on our lifestyles, while wireless/'bluetooth' technologies will give businesses another productivity boost. Mr Contrarian is not a technology expert, but he does believe that better news will emanate from this sector towards the end of 2001 with his time horizon, he is happy to put away in his bottom drawer stocks like Vodaphone, Alcatel, Nokia and Ericsson on panic selling days. The smile on Mr Contrarian's face widens imperceptibly as he considers how broad stock-market indices may perform in 2001. Mr Contrarian is not particularly bullish despite a poor year in general in 2000 for global markets, they look fair value rather than cheap. Stocks which were very cheap this time last year have lost this attraction (eg banks, tobacco stocks, foods and pharmaceuticals) while many telecom and technology stocks leave no room for error in their valuations (the Nasdaq still has a P/E ratio of around 100 times). This suggests a return of around 5pc for 2001, with volatility ensuring that a negative year to date performance and a 10pc-plus year to date performance will be experienced at some stage. This is the environment that excites Mr Contrarian. Having the cash, experience and long-term view to buy temporarily out of favour blue-chip stocks sold down by nervous, shorter term investors is where skilled stock-pickers thrive versus broad stock-market indices and, in a volatile market, many more of these opportunities present themselves. Mr Contrarian and his great investor friend, Mr Hindsight, chuckle as they think about the great bargains the technology bubble threw up last March/April. Gains of 50pc-plus were easy to pick up, such as banks (AIB, Bank of Ireland, Abbey National were standalone internet banks really going to destroy the traditional banks?) consumer brands (Diageo, Cadbury, Unilever, Philip Morris internet whizz kids still have to eat, drink and smoke!) and autos (Nissan would the Japanese government have let it go bust?). Thinking about the future, as well as the big brand technology companies, Mr Contrarian likes banks (ABN, Chase), autos (Ford, DaimlerChrysler) and telecoms (Worldcom, KPN). Moving closer to home, it is clear Ireland's growth momentum will slow next year. It is easy to forget all the good things about the economy when one experiences taxi strikes, blockaded airports, teacher strikes and an intermittent intercity train service. What must international business people and investors think of the Celtic Tiger! However, we should still experience an impressive 7pc to 8pc growth rate in 2001, while the nascent signs of a euro recovery versus the US dollar and sterling should help to reduce the country's inflation rate. This should underpin the Irish market, particularly as the diversification out of Irish equities approaches the final few hurdles. Mr Contrarian divides his Irish equity market recommendations into three categories in ascending order of risk, as follows: 1. Consistent growth but not expensive Kerry, IAWS, United Drug, DCC, Jurys 2. Cheap but out of favour CRH, Barlo, Greencore 3. Dogs in 2000, but could surprise (pleasantly) in 2001 Fyffes, ICG, Smurfit Mr Contrarian expects the ISEQ to outperform global markets early in 2001 due to the benign economic background and the market's defensive qualities but to lag thereafter as technology developments start to surprise on the upside. At that stage, a switch to the US and European markets should prove beneficial, while Asia could again be a profitable place to be. 
