stocks
{  
    April 27 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/freeman-if-you-buy-one-investment-book-this-year-then-make-it-this-one-25992065.html }
NO matter how experienced you are, there's always more to be learned about investing. Conventional wisdom is that fast growth is good for investors. Old Europe has been stagnant, and yet German stocks soar. The standard explanation is that companies whose share price has soared have been restructuring, by outsourcing to Eastern Europe - as if Germany's structural rigidities don't impact individual enterprises. Yet you often find such anomalies: Chinese stocks generally disappoint while Brazilian securities boomed during the recent downturn. Chinese stocks fell by 10pc yearly since 1992, while Brazil surged by 15pc yearly. Value won out over growth. As Warren Buffet said, growth is always 'a component of value' so the term 'value investing' is redundant. Many assume that this apparent dichotomy was due to international trade: when an economy plunges, costs fall and export earnings are magnified in local currency. But the share price boom in stagnant economies is not limited to exporters. What is going on? Is it our old friend the contrarian winning out again? Punters tend to over-react to recent events, whether good or ill. Investors bid up the prices of stocks in hot economies and neglect shares of enterprises in stagnant economies. This point is brought out in Jeremy Siegel's latest book 
The Future for Investors: Why the Tried and True Triumph Over the Bold and the New. He calls the tendency to overpay for hot stocks or countries the 'growth trap', seducing punters into overpaying and consequently suffering low returns. By contrast, shrinking industries in slower-growth countries normally generate better rewards. Siegel's analysis of productivity and demographic trends suggests accelerating economic growth as aeging westerners sell assets to rising Asian powerhouses. By 2050 he predicts that China and India will out-produce Europe, Japan and the USA combined. If you think history is bunk, you'll be left cold. But historical data is what we have and it shows continuity rather than radical change: the equity risk premium fluctuates over time, but for any lengthy period there is a premium. Overall performance varies across countries and time, but the out-performance of stocks over time is consistent. Low productivity of Irish agricultural investment during the 1970s was not unique. Productivity comes from learning, not capital. You become a better driver through experience - not by buying a bigger car. Our brains seem hardwired in ways only partly impacted by experience. You won't fall for the same story twice but you'll fall for a similar story - or over-react and miss real opportunities. Growth and innovation drive progress. Capitalism seeks profit by re-organising. Productivity allows comfort, health and leisure. But many original ideas fail because incumbents adapt or the benefits go to customers and second movers rather than innovators. For industries as a whole, inventions often destroy investor value. When innovation does work, the huge gains accrue to entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and financial intermediaries rather than punters - who are late to climb on the bandwagon. Growth and innovation means turmoil, which increases investor risks. Big gorilla winners may not compensate for many disappointments - particularly if you take profits too early and can't sell your dogs. Unless you are in at the beginning, as someone driving the innovation, you're more likely to gain as a consumer. A flood of capital often leads to over-capacity, which drives down margins. Frequently, many companies make similar investments on the assumption that competitors stay static, exacerbating vicious price wars in which consumers are the victor. Under-utilisation of assets increases the overall capital cost, driving down returns further. Instead of creative destruction, there is 'destruction of the creative'. Evidence for the lack of reality of 'growth share' driven investment is the continuing reluctance to expense options. The use of options motivates and preserves cash, but means that the first winnings go to insiders, with investors bringing up the rear. A way to measure earnings quality is to assess the level of accruals - the difference between cash flow and accounting returns. Low accruals suggests conservative accounting and vice versa. By contrast, less sexy industries such as consumer goods or energy attract less competition. Even low but consistent growth in established companies over time compounds into impressive returns. The key is to buy good stocks with reasonable growth prospects on low multiples. Expect to pay a premium for an excellent vintage but ensure it really is good wine and the premium is reasonable. Over the (30 year) long-term, Siegel's analysis shows that no new economy stock appeared in the top twenty, because high growth expectations were already in the initial price. Over time, companies with defensible positions are the ones which out-perform. Good products deserve a premium - but not without limit. Among the most sustainable barriers are strong consumer brands. If you read one investment book this year, make it this one. Siegel grapples with the implications of aging of wealthy countries and rapid development of key poor countries. Though demographics will drive developments, an integrating world will see emerging countries buying assets disposed of by ageing pensioners in the developed world. Siegel's record is impressive: his 1994 bestseller, 
Stocks for the Long Run, made the case for a buy-and-hold approach by demonstrating that shares, rather than cash or bonds, are most profitable long-term. But which stocks? Is it true even during bubbles? And can we do better than indexing? In April 1999 he decried the 'new paradigm' insisting that internet stocks were overpriced. He argued that the stock bubble was limited to the broad technology sector. Though wariness of growth is counter-intuitive, Siegel's approach echoes traditional contrarian investment. His analysis reminds us that Initial Public Offerings are timed to help the company rather than the investor, of the impact of dividends re-invested and diversification. The focus is on value - with growth if it priced cheaply. Dividends made a comeback after the 2000 bust. The good news is that the long bond yield is now only about 1.5 times Irish dividends - the lowest ratio for decades. The British ratio is even lower, having fallen to the long bond rate in 2002, but is now creeping up again. Many stocks now yield more than Irish property. Applied to the Irish market, the highest yielding stocks are eircom at 6pc, Viridian, IL&P, Greencore, the two main banks, Abbey, C&C, Indo and Readymix. The total pre-dividend cash flow stars are ICG at 15.5pc, then Eircom, McInerney, Fyffes, C&C, CRH, Kerry, Greencore, Abbey and Indo. The low price earnings ratio stocks are Abbey at 6.5, then McInerney, FBD, Greencore, Eircom, Bank of Ireland, ICG, Fyffes, AIB and IL&P. To exploit Siegel's revelations, seek diversified dividend yielding stocks when there're out of favour: the main banks, CRH, Viridian, the builders and food companies and Eircom. Unless excessive fluctuations present trading opportunities, a buy-and-hold strategy avoids stockbroker entreaties to churn. Intermediaries and the taxman like activity, but transaction costs cut the long-term investor's winnings. This also applies to funds and property. Fashion drives short-term trading but is a snare for longer term investors. Send your feedback to freemanindo@excite.com 
