stocks
{  
    July 20 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/safest-stocks-in-financial-storms-26242631.html }
Nick Webb quizzes the cream of Ireland's financial experts to find the safest haven for your money among indigenous  stocks THE absolute destruction of Elan on the markets must have scared the bejaysus out of Irish investors. This was probably the bluest blue-chip companies on the Dublin market. The troubles at WorldCom, Xerox, Enron and now Qwest have shown that even the blue chips can have nasty little secrets. So just what is the safest stock on the Irish markets? The Sunday Independent asked a number of experts to stick their head on the block. Aberdeen Asset Management's Ivan Murphy picked Arnotts and Greencore as his "safest" stocks on the Irish market. Arnotts' conservative management, cautious expansion and net asset value means that investors "could certainly sleep at night", according to Murphy. Greencore is another safe stock. "There's a great interest in 'boring' stocks," he said, adding that Bank of Ireland, Kerry and CRH are just easy picks, although he noted that any company with debt could make investors nervous. JurysDoyle would have certainly been one of the safest stocks but for the weakness in the US tourism market. He added that Tullow could be a riskier "safe" stock because of its revenue streams after the BP oilfield acquisitions and the fact that the oil and resource sector is performing well. CRH is about the lowest risk stock on the Irish market, according to Adrian O'Carroll of Merrion Stockbrokers. A simple way of spotting companies that may be a little iffy is to examine their conversion of profits into cash. CRH has a particularly good level in this regard. Although the building industry is cyclical, CRH is more involved in the "safer" sectors, such as repair and maintenance. No company on the market is safe from an unforeseen downturn but, as O'Carroll notes, CRH has worked to protect itself from any major surprise by diversification. Over the last 10 years, they have made some fairly major acquisitions but the company has never let its balance sheet become over-stretched. There have also been concerns about the company's exposure to the sluggish US economy but, as O'Carroll points out, the US is a collection of 52 states some with buoyant economies and some less so and CRH has a good spread through the regions. "CRH is the safest from the point of view of going bust, from the quality and depth of its management and the strength of its balance sheet," he says. Grafton Group is also safe as houses, according to Goodbody's Colin Hunt, principally because of the management quality, their clarity of and past execution of strategy. Food and pharmaceuticals traditionally provide safe havens in time of market turmoil, although perhaps pharmaceuticals aren't quite as solid as they once were. Kerry is a good solid defensive stock and CRH is also pretty safe. Surprisingly Bank of Ireland, which many people would have considered one of the safest stocks around, is not on Hunt's list, as he feels the institution has been adversely affected by weaknesses in the equity market. That said, the conservative way the bank is run makes it unlikely that "black holes" will emerge in its accounts. Dolmen Butler Briscoe's Stuart Draper swam against the tide by tipping builders McInerney Holdings as the safest stock on the Irish market. The company is building housing in Ireland and in the north of England, as well as constructing apartments in southern Spain. These products will always be in demand, regardless of what happens globally, says Draper. The company is trading at only four times earnings, which makes it particularly cheap, and they have indicated that they plan to increase dividends in line with some of the other listed building firms. This means that, in effect, shareholders will be paid for waiting for the markets to improve. Draper is also sweet on JurysDoyle in terms of asset value and growth going forward. Despite a weak US tourism market, he feels the hotel business is fairly resilient. NCB believes that the safest bets are in "old economy" companies and in those firms that were just too boring to be in, didn't get overvalued and, as a result, may be sluggish to go down. Kerry is a steady stock, which has seen its rating fall to a level that is almost cheap. It is a solid company, with quality earnings and it doesn't have fancy accounting techniques, even though it uses gearing. CRH's rating has gone down to a level which is low by US standards and has "rock solid" accounting. Fyffes looks solid and its earnings are improving. NCB believes the problem is in valuations, rather than in earnings and economies. Arnotts and ICG are also good stocks. ICG got hammered by foot-and-mouth disease, but it would be an extreme view to suggest that it will be a problem every year. Bank of Ireland remains a play on the Irish economy, which is still growing faster than many others, though NCB believe financial stocks could go lower. Although banks are a little "accident prone", the entire brokerage would be amazed if their accounts weren't "plain vanilla". However, banks can't be certain of bad debts, they warned. 
