stocks
{  
    May 02 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/why-high-dividend-yield-stocks-are-the-business-25983038.html }
An investment strategy of choosing dull companies with seemingly slow growth prospects but high dividend yields has been shown to outperform over the long term despite short periods of underperformance IT NEVER ceases to amaze me how well the simple strategy of investing in equities with high dividend yields performs against the broad stockmarket indices. What is even more surprising is the longevity and consistency of this strategy - generally, successful investment styles/funds only last a short while before everyone jumps on the bandwagon, and they get priced out and fail to deliver. Examples of this include railroad stocks in the 1880s, oil stocks in the 1970s, property in the 1970s, technology stocks in the 1990s, and perhaps hedge funds in the latter half of this decade! In this article, I try to explain why this high yield phenomenon has persisted for so long, but before attempting this, I think it worthwhile to recap on the extent of the outperformance achieved by this simple strategy. The well known economists at the London Business School, Professors Dimson, Marsh & Staunton produce every year their Global Investment Returns Year Book, a study of stockmarket returns around the world. Their analysis suggests a 'system' for beating the overall stockmarket that will surprise you - choose dull companies with seemingly slow growth prospects, but high dividend yields! A £100 invested in 1900 in low growth/high yield stocks (rebalanced every year) would have grown to an incredible £6.9m today (assuming no tax or dealing costs and all dividends re-invested). By comparison, over the same 105-year period, £100 invested in the UK stockmarket index would have grown to £1.5m, while a similar investment in high growth/low yielding shares would only have grown to £296,000. Unfortunately the authors give no rationale for this 'system' - Professor Marsh was quoted in the 
(London) Times: "It's compelling and intriguing and I wish I had a better explanation for it." Interestingly, renowned US economist Professor Jeremy Siegel has produced a similar study for the US stockmarket. Prof Siegel is well-known for his influential 1994 book, 
Stocks for the Long Run (a great read!) in which he argued that equities are less risky than gilts/bonds in real terms over longer holding periods [Shane Whelan and myself proved this in 1989 when we worked in New Ireland Assurance in our seminal and still remembered paper ' 
Risk & Reward for Pension Funds': but unfortunately we didn't have the marketing clout of Prof Siegel!]. Anyway in his new book Prof Siegel argues that above average yielding stocks outperform the stockmarket with less risk. For example, Standard Oil of New Jersey (a lumbering behemoth in a stagnating, heavily regulated business which became the current Exxon Mobil) outperformed IBM in the period 1950 to 2003 (a golden period for IBM) even though IBM's sales, earnings and dividends all grew at a faster rate. In another example, Siegel shows that a portfolio of railroad (a contracting industry) stocks also outperformed the S&P500 over the same period. The key factor is that higher dividends reinvested in low-priced, high yielding, dull stocks more than made up for their lack of earning growth compared with the high-flying companies. The Bloxham High Yield Fund is only in existence since October 2002, but even in the relatively short period to 31st March 2005 (a very volatile period for global stockmarkets) it too has shown remarkable outperformance contained with low volatility. So why does this strategy work so well? My comments above in respect of Prof Siegel allude to, what I believe, are the main reasons. High yielding stocks tend to be mature, mediocre, low growth companies, and are regarded by many investors as fuddy-duddy, boring investments, and thus tend to be valued lowly by investors (ie they have low price-earnings ratios) - I often refer to my High Yield Fund as a portfolio of 40 tortoises! Because these stocks are generally unloved and have low expectations from investors, they generally deliver positive surprises, and the shares perform reasonably well. In addition, the high dividends they pay can be re-invested at attractive valuations. Conversely, high growth, low yielding 'glamour' stocks have high expectations and high valuations and when they disappoint they fall sharply (eg Elan). The other main rationale is that payment of a regular and growing dividend is a management discipline. If investors expect an increasing dividend payment, management is much less likely to embark on an acquisition or significant capital expenditure unless they can clearly prove it is earnings enhancing (McKinsey analysis suggests that 70pc of acquisitions fail to generate the expected benefits). My favourite real-life example of these ideas is shown in the graphic (above). It shows that Bank of Ireland has outperformed Intel shares by more than double over the 10 years to 31st March 2005. This is hard to believe given the exponential growth in Intel's underlying business (ie chips for personal computers), and their global dominance (85pc of all PCs have Intel chips). Meanwhile, over the same period, BoI has plodded along nicely, doing its business quietly, although being blessed by being based in a fast-growing economy. The problem for Intel's share price is that investors in 1999 extrapulated its 1995-1999 growth forward for the next 20 years and justified extraordinary valuations, only to see the growth moderate in the early 2000s. There is a major caveat to the high yield strategy, however - the long-term outperformance of high yielding stocks is punctuated by periods of underperformance, and it is very important to take the long-term view (eg the recent bubble period 1997-2000 saw significant underperformance by high yield stocks versus the more glamorous growth stocks of pharmaceuticals, telecoms, media and technology). An article by Eugene Shahan titled ' 
Are Short Term Performance and Value Investing Mutually Exclusive' found that even the best fund managers outperform only two-thirds of the time. The uber-investor, Warren Buffet, also came to a similar conclusion, when he studied his seven favourite fund managers. They outperformed the index by between 7.7pc to 16.5pc per annum over 13 to 28 years, but none outperformed every year and on average they underperformed one year in three. Interestingly, the underperformance tend to come in periods of strongly rising markets rather than flat or falling markets. And perhaps this is why the high yield strategy has remained intact as a winning investment strategy - because every so often the strategy goes out of favour as a more fashionable trend emerges. So, is the high yield strategy in for one of these periodical bouts of underperformance? Perhaps, but in my view, not in the current financial environment when (a) interest rates remain low across the world, (b) you can buy quality shares with high and growing dividends on low valuations and (c) other asset classes remain expensive - bonds and property. Pramit Ghose is head of investment strategy at Bloxham Stockbrokers 
