stocks
{  
    November 10 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/where-have-all-the-good-irish-companies-gone-26245205.html }
With the ISEQ losing firms at a furious rate, Nick Webb  ponders the market's future EITHER printing firm Oakhill or Kilkenny soldering iron business Oglesby & Butler look set to become the largest ISEQ firms by 2007, if the rate of attrition continues. Currently, Oakhill is worth ?4m and Oglesby & Butler has a market cap of ?5m. But it's not as crazy as it sounds. The Irish Stock Exchange is losing companies at a furious rate. Last week, John Nagle's Alphyra announced senior management were tinkering around with an MBO bid. Noel Smyth's Dunloe Ewart is subject to a bitter takeover battle. The dust has only just settled on both Madison Dearborn's purchase of Smurfit and Stephen Vernon's MBO at Green Property. Add this to the delistings of Eircom, Adare, Ire-Tex, Capital Bars, Crean and Golden Vale and soon it seems clear that things are only going in one direction. ISEQ chief Tom Healy points out that every European stock exchange is losing companies because of the bear market. He says there is a natural attrition rate, but at the moment the bigger companies (like Eircom or Smurfit) aren't being replaced. The German Neuer Markt has actually closed up shop in recent weeks. In terms of replacements there's nothing on the horizon. Video teleconferencing business Spectel and Maurice Pratt's C&C both pulled out of IPOs at the last possible moment. Bookie Paddy Power was the last Irish company to float, and that was almost two years ago. It's an pan-European phenomenon the Spanish exchange has admitted its first new company in almost 18 months and, apart from HMV, there were few new additions to London. What's in the pipeline? C&C may dust itself off and have another run at the markets, as major shareholder BC ventures may look for an exit. There are a couple of technology companies (like Fineos) that might consider it, but they'd want to be pretty desperate given the state of investor sentiment. Even so, Healy believes that hi-tech companies are the most likely to list. You wouldn't want to hold your breath. Goodbody, Davy, Merrion and NCB's IPO teams are probably the only people in Ireland who believe that going public is a good idea at the moment. So where does this leave the Irish stock market? Well, at this stage, it's about as useful as a chocolate teapot. The share collapse at Elan and the delisting of Eircom, Smurfit and Green have effectively stripped the Anglesea Street institution of four of its top ten rated stocks. Now the exchange is heavily weighted in favour of financial stocks. AIB, Bank of Ireland, Irish Life & Permanent, Anglo Irish Bank and First Active make up about 53 per cent of the ISEQ's weighting. Financial stocks clearly have too much clout. But Healy points out that in the past the Finnish Stock Exchange had almost 50 per cent of its weighting in one stock Nokia with the Amsterdam Exchange having nearly 30 per cent in one stock. He doesn't believe weightings are so important in the Eurozone anymore. Dublin's main competition is with the massive London Stock Exchange. Bank of Ireland, AIB and CRH are the most commonly-traded Irish stocks in London, but Healy says that ISEQ does between two thirds and three quarters of the total trading in Irish shares between the two exchanges. While punters may be experiencing doom and gloom on the market, Healy notes that turnover in cash terms is up almost 40 per cent compared with last year and this in a time of falling stock values. Most of the buying is by European institutions, he says. This may balance out the continued flight by Irish pension funds from native stocks, which now make up about a mid-teen percentage of total portfolio values. Things could get much worse. All the banks are possible takeover/merger targets. CRH could quite easily find itself snaffled up in an industry-wide consolidation, especially as its shares have bummed out. Heiton, United Drug, First Active, Fyffes and Riverdeep are all possible take out targets. There are plenty more companies literally screaming to be taken private. Abbey, Barlo, CPL, Unidare,Horizon, Irish Continental, IWP, Kingspan, and Sherry FitzGerald make up a conservative list. The merits of a Dublin listing for the likes of Tesco, Aviva, Diageo, Vislink and Viridian don't really seem to stack up. How often do any of these stocks trade here? They are very much secondary listings. The technology stocks and resources sector are hardly burning up the boards either. Given the state of the remaining companies, it's quite conceivable that the Irish stock market could be left with the likes of Donegal Creameries, Qualceram and McInerney as its shining lights. Tempted to have a punt? Thought not. Dublin's options are limited at the moment. Healy believes that there will be a common market for the top shares and with that in mind the ISEQ hooked up with the Deutsche Bourse's Xetra trading platform. This is one of a number of rival trading platforms in Europe and it means that Irish shares will be visible in all European trading rooms. It also reduces the need for ISEQ to merge with other major exchanges, says Healy. However this still remains a likely option at some stage. The Dublin exchange tried to develop a special hi-tech market the ITEQ but it coincided with the collapse of the sector. The market isn't really there at the moment and anyway, ITEQ faced massive competition as London's Techmark, which accounts for 83 per cent of the European market. The ISEQ has moved into the highly specialised warrants sector and the exchange is now the biggest in the world for the listing of investment funds. The complex securitisation market is also ramping up in Dublin, with about half of the exchange's staff dedicated to overseeing the sector. Dublin's main role could become regulatory, although IFRSA, the new financial services watchdog, could also steal some of its thunder. As a capital markets entity, the ISEQ could position itself for niche offerings and fundraisings. Evolving the DCM and ramping it up to compete with the smaller adolescents market like London's AIM could be a possibility but with sentiment hugely against equities, who would buy into an IPO of Smith Office Supplies of Ballyferriter or O'Brien's Petrol station of Naas? 
