stocks
{ Frank O'Brien 
    July 21 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/vulnerable-irish-financials-have-sold-themselves-short-26463538.html }
A recent episode of a documentary series chronicling the lives of a pack of muskrats saw the dominant female, grievously injured by a snakebite, struggle home to the warren. On arrival, she was pounced upon by her younger sister who, instantly recognising her vulnerability, beat, humiliated and usurped her. The law of the jungle. Parallel events are observable in the stock markets. Financial stocks are vulnerable. Globally, banks have been weakened by their recklessness in creating a credit bubble. Domestically, Irish banks are seen as over-exposed to the property and construction sectors. Short sellers, investors who take financial bets on stocks falling in value, are exploiting this weakness, attracted by the perceived vulnerability of the banks and emboldened by the absence of investment buyers. Irish pension funds, natural buyers of Irish equities, are being berated by investment consultants for their over-exposure to the domestic market. Global investment institutions, now the dominant holders of Irish equities, see better opportunities abroad. Irish investors, already shell-shocked by the last year's price falls, have turned sellers. This creates an irresistible opportunity for short sellers -- usually hedge funds -- to make money by borrowing stock, which they sell with the expectation of buying it back at a lower price and then returning it. The stock lender, typically an institutional investor, receives cash collateral and charges interest. Short selling has increased significantly with the substantial growth in the hedge fund industry. Proponents argue, not unreasonably, that it enhances market liquidity (trading activity) as well as efficiency. Nevertheless, it is easy to conclude that the sharp weakness of leading Irish financials has been significantly exacerbated by the rise of short selling. As most stock is held electronically, statistics are available for stock lent as a proportion of the total -- a reasonable proxy for a measure of short-selling activity. In June, 15.2pc of Anglo Irish Bank's stock was out on loan, according to Euroclear, the settlement system for securities transactions, compared to 12.3pc at the end of last year. The percentage of Irish Life & Permanent's stock out on loan rose from 4.4pc to 10.8pc over the same period, while Bank of Ireland's loaned stock increased from 2.7pc to 6.7pc and Allied Irish Banks' from 1.8pc to 2.6pc. At end June prices, these numbers (if they are a reliable indicator of short selling) point to a €1.2bn "bet" against the Irish financials. In 40 years as an investment professional, I have only once encountered a period as unsettling as June. That was in late 1974, when a fraught market was exacerbated by 'stock jobbers' (market players who traded from their own accounts -- later called market makers) who were continuously short of stock -- forcing the market ever lower. This was not resolved until, famously, the investment institutions began concerted buying, thus obliging the jobbers to balance their books. The market doubled in the next six weeks. Despite its positive theoretical effects, I believe short selling on the scale outlined above is corrosive. Short selling is legitimate and here to stay, but other interested parties should apply the same cold-blooded clarity to it as hedge funds. The Financial Regulator must insist on more transparency on short selling -- and might consider whether persistent weakness in bank share prices could undermine the confidence of deposit holders. Timing or volume limits might also be examined. Already, the US and UK financial regulators have taken steps to restrict the volumes and increase the transparency of short selling, irritating hedge fund 'free marketeers'. However, the common good may be best served by protecting the system's integrity. Ultimately, the solution lies in the self-interest of stock owners. Institutions who lend stock must urgently review the benefits. How does the incremental income derived compare to capital losses from short selling? At a minimum, there are periods when stock lending is value destructive, and should stop. Quoted corporations, particularly banks, must acknowledge that creating vulnerability empowers short sellers. Prudent operational and financial strategies restrict vulnerability. Corporations might also consider whether share buybacks might be more proactively to resist short-selling pressures. Finally, the long-term investor should recognise that there is a difference between price and value. Value is determined by long-term fundamentals. Price oscillates, sometimes widely, around value. By sticking firmly to the solid ground of value, the investor may exploit the extremes of price volatility. Frank O'Brien is a director of Investment Faculty Ireland, the specialist investment training company 
