stocks
{  
    July 10 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/telecom-float-shatters-stockbrokings-glass-ceiling-26260080.html }
Eddie Hobbs takes stock of three types of investors who are playing the field these daysHALF a million Irish investors have just moved billions of pounds from cash deposits to one individual share offering. And, in doing so, the glass ceiling separating the arcane wizardry of stockbroking and stock markets from the ordinary punter has been shattered. If Telecom holds up reasonably well, for many investors there may be no going back to the passivity of common insurance funds. Buying shares and making money from them is no big deal. Everybody can do it. If you have a small fortune, one way of ensuring it will remain so is to keep it in sluggish funds or cash deposit. It would take cash deposits more than 50 years to do what stocks can achieve in 10. Probably the most forgotten thing about investing in stocks is that it can be fun. The world is your oyster. By the second half of the '90s, the total value of all companies in world stock markets had tripled in value over 10 years to $7,000bn. That's made a lot of investors very happy. Why shouldn't you get a slice of the action? Investing in shares is no longer a local matter, and neither is it difficult. In fact it has been vastly simplified as communication technology combines with rising consumer knowledge about how businesses work and why you should invest in them. It's not your gender or the size of your bank account that matters, but your attitude to stocks that defines the type of investor you are. The Passive Investor This one likes to know only a little bit about how shares work. The business section is read for headlines and photographs in the rush to sports and social engagements. Stock is something that is added to soup. The passive investor prefers convenience shopping and sticks rigidly to well-known brands. The opinion of the local branch manager or insurance broker is given considerable weight these people seem to know what they are talking about. Rarely do these investors seek and evaluate information themselves, preferring a quick call to a friend in the know. The passive investor will go almost exclusively for pooled investments like unit-linked managed funds, with-profit bonds and trackers. Whatever's the fashion, whatever everybody else is doing, is just fine. The fact that most of these investments are inefficient and underperform stock market indices isn't terribly important, provided everybody else gets mediocrity too. Ask a passive investor where his or her money is invested and the response will be Standard Life, Ark Life, and so on. Knowledge begins and ends with the brand. Ask about the fund and watch for the blank. The passive investor never buys stocks directly. If he or she has stock, it's by accident of inheritance or flotation of a mutual. When the stock market takes a sharp fall, expect to find passive investors in heavy numbers racing to investment oblivion, bailing out at the bottom. The subsequent loss will reinforce the passive investor's view that there is no difference between stock markets and Punchestown. The Novice Investor The novice has a good mix of carefully-selected funds but also buys shares directly. This investor finds the business pages interesting and periodically buys business magazines. Investor information services on the Internet are beginning to be explored. The novice won't keep a penny in managed funds, preferring instead specialist funds that are capable of outperforming market indices. The novice is usually successful at investing in a small number of stocks with which he or she has become familiar, or may use a system of investment. But the novice doesn't really want to spend a lot of time and energy in research and trading, preferring to undertake an annual review, occasionally making some changes to the current mix. The novice usually follows a policy of buying and holding for the long run, and concentrates on large companies. A typical mix will have up towards 80 per cent in large companies, and 20 per cent in medium to small companies. The novice will be sceptical of institutional messages, regarding most pooled products and funds as representing poor value. Propping up a long-term relationship with a `friend in the business' is seen as detrimental to financial strength. The novice will be found buying large stocks heavily at the bottom of a stock market crash from nervous passive investors sprinting in the opposite direction. The Active Investor Investment funds are not for this one, who likes to get stuck in directly and typically enjoys reading and learning about financial matters. The active investor is keen to make money and plenty of it, but in a controlled manner prepared to put in the necessary time, energy and planning to do the job right. The results will greatly exceed those of professional fund managers. The active investor has the advantage of concentrating on a much narrower number of shares, and the commitment of somebody minding his own loot and not somebody else's. These investors tend to concentrate on medium to small companies, recognising that there is explosive value when the smaller end of the market is traded properly. They are likely to be proficient Internet users, making the most of investor services particularly from the US. The active investor copes easily with the ups and downs of investment markets, regarding these as opportunities for buying and shorting. Panicked investors are easy pickings for the active investor no matter which way the market is going. The active investor will disregard expensive full service brokerages and will deal on the market equivalent. This type of investor will be jaundiced to the opinions of ``blue chip'' stockbrokers. Stockbrokers are not to be trusted. In fact, the only engagement which the active investor has with financial services is for banking and insurances. Every other penny is directly invested in stocks. There is little you can teach active investors; they teach themselves.  * Eddie Hobbs is a financial and management consultant 
