stocks
{ Cyril Hardiman 
    October 23 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/securities-lending-a-target-for-top-market-makers-26032067.html }
The Securities Lending market has quadrupled in a year, standing at ?1.2bn currently, writes CYRIL HARDIMAN THE concept of buying and selling shares is one familiar to most people. Few will, however, be up to speed on the business of lending securities, a growing activity on the Irish Stock Exchange these days. The Securities Lending market has quadrupled over the past 12 months from ?250m average outstanding balances to about ?1.2bn currently. The fact that it is little known outside of the small number of participants shows this is a market for the big players only. Access is really only open to the major long-term holders of equities the insurance companies, pension funds and charities who buy equities for the long haul. They are the lenders. Borrowers of stock are typically market makers and investors wishing to "short" or arbitrage a particular stock. The timely delivery of stock (certificates) is critical to the smooth working of the stock market and to its liquidity. Securities lending helps achieve these objectives. Market makers have to borrow stock from time to time because they are obliged at all times to quote prices both ways they are obliged to buy or sell as the case may be. If a client investor sells stock but then fails to deliver the certificate on time, the market maker will have to borrow that stock so that he can complete the trade and ensure the smooth working of the market. Securities lending is ideal for investors wishing to "short" a particular stock. An investor believes a stock to be too expensive so decides to sell it, even though he is not a holder. He borrows the stock from a long-term holder so that he can complete the trade. Assuming he's read the market accurately, and the price falls as expected, he buys the stock and returns it to the lender. He's made a nice turn on the manoeuvre, while the lender has earned a fee for no risk. Stock lending is also used to exploit arbitrage opportunities. These may, for instance, arise where a company's stock is listed on more than one market, occasionally giving rise to differing price trends in the same stock. Such an opportunity might also present itself where there is a convertible listed separately from the same company's equity. Securities lending was slow to take off in Ireland and by no means all the long-term equity holders have to date embraced the concept as lenders. The Irish Stock Exchange had a structure in place for some years, but the market was initially held back by an unsupportive tax system. An issue arose over whether title passed when stock was loaned out, thereby giving rise to a potential capital gains tax liability. But the Revenue Commissioners then recognised it simply as another market facility. The lending of securities is no more than that; a loan arrangement, not a transfer of ownership or title. That was the cue for Hans Beckmann, former head of Commerzbank's IFSC mutual fund operations and vice-chairman of FundsWorld, the Internet fund promoter in Ireland. He saw the potential for the development of a market activity that was already flying in London, New York and the other major investment centres. Some big long-term equity holders do their own lending or use their global custodians for this purpose. Beckmann believed this was not the efficient way to approach this market, but that a hybrid of both was the answer. He interested financial services group Friends First and FBD, the largest Irish-owned general insurer here, and established Guild Global Securities, the only Irish intermediary broker in securities lending here. "People perceived this market to be too small for securities lending to flourish I didn't," Beckmann now recalls. He lends stock on behalf of his co-shareholders Friends and FBD each own 35pc of Guild Global and also for Irish Life Investment Managers, one of the big long-term holders of stock in Ireland. Beckmann would like to add a few more clients to his list. The other main domestic mover in this market is Bank of Ireland Securities Services (BOISS), fund administration and custody division of the group. It acts mainly, though not exclusively, for clients of the Bank of Ireland. This is why Bank of Ireland Asset Management, the largest Irish asset manager, does not directly lend stock. They see it as an add-on service that requires specialist skills and believe clients wishing to lend their stock are best served by dealing with BOISS. Institutions lend their stock against collateral typically 105pc of the value of the stock being loaned out. When the stock is returned, the collateral goes back to the borrower less an agreed fee. Securities lending is a nice way institutions can boost their overall return on the stock adding a small fee to the dividend and any capital gain. It is also tax advantageous for the participants. As loaning stock does not constitute a sale, capital gains tax is not an issue for the lender. Likewise, the borrower does not have to pay stamp duty since he is not purchasing the stock. 
