stocks
{ LIAM FITZGERALD 
    January 13 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/d-day-looms-on-extensification-26126171.html }
AGENDA 2000 has brought in a lot of changes to the various cattle payment schemes and introduced some new payments such as the all-year-round slaughter premium and the extra slaughter payment on heifers. The change that will cause most difficulty to manage is the new extensification premium. Just before Christmas every herdowner got a form to complete and return to the Local Livestock Office of the Department of Agriculture in which they have to state: (i) if they are interested in claiming extensification premium (previously extensification premium was paid automatically on qualifying animals within the stocking rate limits). (ii) the method of calculation for extensification the applicant intends to use. (iii) the rate of extensification the applicant intends to claim. Accompanying the form was an information booklet which sets out the changes and explains very clearly how the various schemes will operate in 2000. Before any form filling is done, this booklet should be read. Mark any questions you need to get clarified and take these up with your adviser or at the information meetings that are currently taking place around the country. STOCKING For the years 2000 and 2001, where the stocking density is less than 1.6LU per hectare the extensification payment will be £51.98 per qualifying animal. Where the stocking density is between 1.6LU and 2.0LU per hectare (both figures inclusive) the rate per qualifying animal will be £25.99. However, the calculation of stocking rate has changed from the old system. Now all cattle over 6 months of age on the farm as well as sheep entered for the Ewe Premium will be counted for stocking rate purposes. Nevertheless, since the low rate of extensification is payable up to an overall stocking rate of 2LU per hectare, the vast majority of cattle farmers will qualify and will therefore state on the form that they wish to claim extensification. A bit more thinking has to be done in relation to the choice of method used to determine stocking density. There are two methods available the ``simplified'' system or the ``census'' system. For those who know the amount of land available to them for the year and have stable stock numbers, the simplified system could be more suitable as there is less paperwork required. The herdowner simply declares that he/she will remain below the chosen stocking rate limit for the year, i.e. below either 2.0LU or 1.6LU per hectare. To opt for this system you should be fairly sure that you will stay below the limits on each and every day of the year. If, however, you find that during the year you are within a stocking rate band other than the one chosen, then you can switch bands provided you inform the Department before any inspection. The census system is more suitable for farmers who have a fluctuating stocking rate throughout the year. The Department will select five census dates at random throughout the year. The farmer will enter the animals on the farm on each of these selected dates on a census form. The animals will be converted to livestock units by the Department and arithmetic average of the livestock units on the five dates will be used in calculating stocking density.  Before completing the form, each applicant for premiums will need to make an estimate of likely stocking densities throughout the year and especially the peak stocking density level. This will help you decide the method and rate of extensification to claim. 
