stocks
{ John Donworth 
    January 22 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/stocking-rates-in-vulnerable-zones-26062414.html }
A DECISION from Government is imminent on whether  the whole country or parts of the country will be declared a  Nitrate Vulnerable Zone. What will be the impact on your farm if it is within a nitrate vulnerable zone? For instance, what will be the impact on stocking rate? Stocking rate could be affected in two ways. It will depend on the amount of organic nitrogen allowed on each hectare. Organic nitrogen is the nitrogen contained in dung and urine. Two levels are quoted. The higher level is fixed at 210kgs/ha, the lower level at 170kgs/ha. Their influence on stocking rate is due to the fact that each cow is credited with producing 85kgs of organic nitrogen each year. So it is a simple equation after that: At the 170kg level the maximum stocking rate allowable will be 2 cows/ha (1.23ac/cow); at the 210kg level, the maximum stocking rate allowable will be 2.47 cows/ha (1ac/cow). Certainly over the past 5 years I have seen dairy farmers relax stocking rate to the point where it is now creeping up to the 1.1 ac/cow or 2.25 cows/ha. This is a long way removed from the old Moorepark blueprint of 0.8ac/LU. Pitching the level of organic nitrogen at 210kgs should be the objective. No farmer could quibble with it. Pitching it at 170kgs level means that we won't be far away from a REPS-type stocking rate and this will require some serious adjustment. The difference in stocking rates between the two figures is nearly 19pc. The latest recommendations from Teagasc Johnstown Castle for the level of nitrogen application at the various stocking rates are to be found in a booklet titled Nutrient and Trace Element Advice for Grassland and Tillage Crops. This booklet was published just before Christmas. They give the following recommendations for the application of bagged nitrogen at the various stocking rates (see table). A livestock unit is defined as a 550kg dairy cow yielding 5,000 litres (1,100gals) of milk and fed 500kgs of concentrates per head per year. Can you manage to stay within the limits? Take the old standard stocking rate of 2.4 cows/ha or 1 cow/ac. Looking at the table, at this stocking rate you should only be applying 225kgs N/ha where pastures are 3 years or older. This amounts to 180 units of N. (To convert kgs/ha into units/ac, multiply by 0.8.) Based on what I have seen at farm level, farmers find it difficult to grow enough grass to sustain one cow to the acre if they only applied 180 units of nitrogen. 180 units is equivalent to 6 bags of CAN. Erratic grass growth patterns do not help our situation but if money can be saved on nitrogen by matching application to stocking rate, it is worth going after. 
