stocks
{  
    April 04 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/using-stock-bulls-will-cost-you-25988344.html }
WOULD you use a bull with an EBI of 10? I am sure you would all say no, but a number of you will use such a bull this year to breed your dairy replacements. I found such a bull in the computer, i.e. in the ICBF database and is he alive and well and active on dairy farms. At this stage, I had better tell you that the bull with the EBI figure of 10 represents the average EBI of 1,248 stock bulls in the ICBF database. This was one of the findings of a study compiled by Donagh Berry, geneticist at Teagasc Moorepark. Only stock bulls with daughters born in the years 2000 onwards were used in the study. The purpose of his study was to compare the average stock bull with all sires currently on the Active Bull List of February 2005. The average stock bull had a pedigree cert which contained the following information: reliability 43pc, kgs milk 125, 3.3kgs fat, 3.6kgs protein, +0.38 days in calving interval and 0.00 for survivability. The average bull was negative for fat pc (-0.02) and negative for protein pc (-0.01). Compare these figures to the average of the AI bulls on the Active Bull List, which are as follows: reliability 70pc, 190kgs of milk, 11.9kgs fat and 9.5kgs protein. Into the bargain, the average bull on the Active List is negative on calving interval (-1.28 days) and positive for survivability (0.99pc). He is also positive for fat pc (0.09) and also positive for protein pc (0.06). It is worth saying loud and clear that, on average, stock bulls will reduce the genetic merit of our cow population. He will do very little for fat and protein pc, will add days to calving interval, and is doing nothing for survivability. Donagh looked at the actual daughters' performance of stock bulls. The data was restricted to daughters born in the year 2000 and onwards. The study showed the average EBI of daughters of stock bulls was ?8.41, whereas daughters produced from matings to an AI sire with an EBI greater than 50 was ?42.36. The study shows that the overall profit per lactation of the high EBI AI bulls, over and above the stock bull, was ?51.26. It's worth calculating what this amounts to in a 50-cow herd. Also, the profit figure does not take into account the genetic superiority passed on by the cow to her female replacement descendants. I could go on, but one factor that is largely ignored by farmers who use stock bulls is the reliability of the stock bull data. The study showed the average reliability of the stock bulls' figures was 43pc. This is a very poor figure and all it tells you is that if you use a stock bull to breed replacements, you only have a 50pc chance of the bull transmitting what it says on the pedigree cert. Compare this to using an AI bull with a 90pc reliability figure. You will find very little variation in such a bull. I know the use of stock bulls to breed replacements is growing on our dairy farms. It is a serious step backwards in terms of profit and the genetic performance of our cows. All economic analysis shows that it will cost you money in the long term. 
