stocks
{  
    May 17 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/short-skirts-get-a-rise-out-of-lethargic-share-prices-26231486.html }
THE Hemline Indicator theory sounds like it should have originated in a movie called    Carry On Investing  . The theory argues that stocks are higher when the fashion is for women's skirts to be short. Men are said to be in a better mood in these periods and this good mood is said to translate into higher stock prices. Thus, the stock market boom of the early 1960s is attribu MICHAEL DOWLING THE Hemline Indicator theory sounds like it should have originated in a movie called Carry On Investing . The theory argues that stocks are higher when the fashion is for women's skirts to be short. Men are said to be in a better mood in these periods and this good mood is said to translate into higher stock prices. Thus, the stock market boom of the early 1960s is attributed to the advent of the mini-skirt. Predictably, the Hemline Indicator theory has received more coverage from the tabloid press than from top academic journals. However, an emerging group of stock market researchers have uncovered evidence that offers the theory some indirect support. These researchers are looking at how mood affects investors. They find that when investors are in good moods, stock prices are higher. Also, when investors are in bad moods, stock prices are lower. So why shouldn't the raised temperatures and general good moods caused by revealing dresses result in higher stock prices? Let's look at some interesting research being done in related areas, both here and abroad. Take, for example, two recent pieces of stock market research on the weather and the All Black rugby team. The research on the weather affecting the stock market is intuitively appealing. Psychologists tell us that weather affects our mood. We also know from psychology that our mood affects how we make decisions. If we are in a good mood we tend to be more optimistic, while we tend to be more pessimistic when we are in a bad mood. Based on this, stock market researchers have investigated whether mood swings caused by the weather affect stock prices. For example, noted US academic Edward Saunders compared New York weather with New York stock prices. He found that good weather days had higher stock returns than bad weather days. Also, in a recent study I conducted with my colleague, Brian Lucey, we found that Irish stock returns varied according to the Irish weather. Not surprisingly, we found that rain was particularly important. Recent research into the All Black rugby team and stock prices provides an even more extreme example. It is based on the (fairly obvious) finding by sports psychologists that the mood of fans tends to be positive after their team wins and negative after their team loses. The more strongly a fan follows his/her team, the greater the impact on their mood. This theory inspired two New Zealand stock market researchers to investigate the impact of the fervent following of the All Black rugby team by their fellow Kiwis on New Zealand stock prices. Unfortunately, their findings were not conclusive. However, there was some evidence in support of the performance of the All Blacks against major teams having an impact on stock prices. A similar argument can be seen in the Superbowl Indicator. This is an age-old stock market adage from the US. The adage necessitates a brief understanding of the Superbowl. American football is divided into two leagues, the American Football Conference (AFC) and the National Football Conference (NFC). The AFC are, broadly speaking, southern states, while the NFC are, broadly speaking, northern states. The winner of the AFC and the NFC play each other in the Superbowl each year. The Superbowl Indicator says that the stock market will do well in a year when the NFC team wins the Superbowl, and poorly when the AFC team wins the Superbowl. There may be a psychological explanation for this. The NFC includes teams from the northern states of New York and Chicago. These are the economic powerhouse states of the US.Perhaps, when an NFC team wins the Superbowl these traders get a psychological boost, while a loss results in a knock-back to their mood, and so also to stock prices. But, can this sporting theory be applied in the Irish context? I think so. I think it's time to say, 'Come back Roy Keane, all is forgiven!' His absence is not just hurting our chances of qualifying for Euro 2004, but it is possibly also depressing Irish stock prices. However, in terms of boosting the beleaguered Irish stock market, I'd be more inclined to put my faith in the Hemline Indicator. I'll leave it up to your collective imaginations as to how best to give the stock market a bit of a boost. Michael Dowling is a researcher at the Department of Economics, TCD 
