stocks
{ David Murphy 
    September 20 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/investor-selling-leads-to-huge-falls-26074748.html }
SHARE prices in Dublin, London and New York continued their sustained fall yesterday as the US military prepared for action in the Persian Gulf yesterday. Investors were slow to buy stocks, although prices were  dropping, as American forces were deployed in Kuwait and Bahrain. All across Europe stocks fell in the wake of steep declines in Asia and Wall Street's latest drop in the wake of the terror  attacks. SHARE prices in Dublin, London and New York continued their sustained fall yesterday as the US military prepared for action in the Persian Gulf yesterday. Investors were slow to buy stocks, although prices were dropping, as American forces were deployed in Kuwait and Bahrain. All across Europe stocks fell in the wake of steep declines in Asia and Wall Street's latest drop in the wake of the terror attacks. In Dublin, stocks fell to a 22-month low as the market fell 3.6pc wiping almost 3bn off shares. Worst affected were technology shares and companies with a large proportion of sales in the US. The heavy losses came one day after the market fell by 4pc. In New York, the Dow Jones continued to collapse, as fresh company warnings of layoffs and deteriorating profits stoked fears of more damage to the economy. Nervous investors kept up the selling for the fourth day since the market reopened after the September 11 attacks. Wall Street, mourning the likely loss of nearly 6,000 people just three blocks from the New York Stock Exchange, has pushed the major stock gauges down more than 10pc to new three-year lows since the devastation. Applied Materials Inc., the top builder of equipment used to make microchips, joined a long list of other firms such as airliners and media companies in dishing out the latest bleak news. The Dow Jones closed down 4.37pc at 8376. In London, stocks lurched to a four-year low as continued forecasts of poor corporate earnings, along with severe problems for airlines and some insurers, have added to the erosion in investor confidence. "At the moment the 'fear factor' is driving the market downward," said David Thwaites, European stock strategist at BNP Paribas. The FTSE index of British blue chips dropped 3.49pc on the London Stock Exchange, its lowest level since May 7, 1997 when the index closed at 4537.5. Further losses on Wall Street added to the downwards momentum, where comments from Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan failed to steady US nerves. The three biggest European markets in London, Frankfurt and Paris all fell sharply after rallying briefly at the start of trading. The Paris Stock Exchange's CAC 40 index shed 3.8pc to end the day at 3,738.18. The Xetra DAX index of leading German shares sank 5.20pc to 3,831.62 in evening trading in Frankfurt. Smaller regional markets followed the same trend, with Italy's Milan Stock Exchange slipping by 4.93pc, the Oslo Stock Exchange by 4.92pc, and Dutch stocks by 5.14pc. "The performance is very difficult to justify rationally," said Ian Harnett, head European stock strategist at UBS Warburg in London. "You are at the point where people's fears are overtaking the reality." 
