stocks
{ Pramit Ghose 
    December 27 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/there-is-value-out-there-and-now-is-the-time-to-take-some-26025238.html }
The volatility that has been a feature of the markets offers opportunities to the intrepid investor.   The volatility that has been a feature of the markets offers opportunities to the intrepid investor RECOMMENDING a small number of stocks is always a dangerous game. Inevitably people remember the one(s) that go horribly wrong, and forget the caveats that single stock investment is not what professional fund management is about. Even the most aggressive style I run for high net worth clients, the Contrarian Style, holds 20-25 stocks at any given time. The aim of this style is to capitalise on the volatility of stock markets, and buy blue chip stocks that are deeply out of favour with investors, look for a 15pc or so gain, and move on. As I am restricted to five stock recommendations, I thought I would give three that are attractively priced and have little downside in my opinion, even if equity markets disappoint again in 2003, and two more speculative stocks that fit our Contrarian Style. (As prices are so volatile I have given the price on the day I have recommended the stocks). Bank of Ireland (?9.80) This is a boring stock to recommend as it is popular with practically all advisers. But at under ?10 it is compelling value for any long-term portfolio, and if it falls to say, ?9, simply buy more. The opportunistic bid for Abbey National has unnerved international holders of the stock, but it is still a well-run, highly profitable bank on modest ratings. For every ?100 invested in Bank of Ireland at this price, the company will earn ?10 (based on a PE of 10), give you, the investor, a dividend of ?3.50 and reinvest the other ?6.50 back into the business. Grafton Group (?3.48) A classic Warren Buffett stock good brands, high market shares, strong management track record and high returns on capital. This stock is some 30pc off its spring 2002 highs, and offers excellent value. Management continues to reiterate double digit earnings growth for the next few years. Sainsbury (£2.74) Another fairly boring stock I'm afraid, but again offers excellent value. It tends to trade in a range of £2.50 to £4.00, and seems a pretty safe purchase at current levels. People have to eat, after all, and Peter Davis is gently restructuring it, as it attempts to catch up with its great rival Tesco. A dividend yield of 5pc is not to be sniffed at given current deposit rates. Friends Provident (£1.22) All the life assurers in the UK stock market have collapsed this year due to slowing sales and solvency worries. All the FTSE 100 life assurers should be able financially to withstand the FTSE going down to 3,000, but should also do well if the market rises. FP is, however, the most likely to be bid for, given its relative size and it trades well under its embedded value. It also has an attractive dividend yield of 4.5pc. Waterford Wedgwood (52) A market capitalisation of ?400m is not expensive for such an array of global brands. There is plenty of bad news out there in terms of sales volumes, margin erosion and borrowings. Things could get worse, but much bad news is priced in, and it's a stock that could easily rise 50pc if there were to be some good news. Unusually for a luxury goods company, it trades for less than half the value of its annual sales, and could be an acquisition target for management and/or for one of the luxury goods firms.  Pramit Ghose is head of investment strategy at Bloxham Stockbrokers 
