stocks
{ Rozanne Stevens 
    August 23 2010 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/real-food-stock-up-on-ideas-for-super-autumn-soups-26674318.html }
It's that time of year where a slight chill is in the air, school uniforms crowd the shops and the evenings are getting shorter. Soups are the ideal meal to get us through the coming autumn and winter. They're also economical and freezer friendly, and great in a flask for a healthy lunch option. As with all processed foods, there are good and bad quality products out there. But soup is incredibly easy to make yourself. Here are some tips I have learnt to create a super soup. Stocks Making your own stock is the foundation of good cooking and a good soup. I have a list below of the best quality stock cubes and bouillon powders which you can keep on stand-by. To make a basic vegetable stock I take onions, carrots and celery as a base and if I have tomatoes, fennel, herb stalks, thyme and leeks I will add these too. I avoid smelly vegetables like cabbage. I throw in some bay leaves and mustard seeds for a little heat. Cover with plenty of water, bring to the boil then simmer for 20 minutes. Scoop off any scum floating on the surface, strain and discard the vegetables. Use or freeze as needed. To make a chicken stock, simply gather your chicken bones and freeze them until you have enough. Add to the basic vegetable stock recipe and simmer for 45 minutes. Again, scoop off any scum and strain. Flavour Bases You can start off any soup with a flavour base of gently sauteed vegetables. The French call this a 'mirepoix' and the Italians call it a 'soffrito'. This is a mixture of finely diced onion, celery and carrot and sometimes garlic. The Italians add herbs like thyme and rosemary and saute in large quantities of olive oil, whereas the French use less. Gently fry the vegetables until soft. You can make up a large quantity of mirepoix and freeze it in cup-size portions for each soup. When your mirepoix is ready, add your vegetables, meat, stock etc and simmer until the vegetables are just tender. To freeze the soup, portion out between freezer containers and allow to cool completely. Transfer to the fridge for three hours and then into the freezer. This is really important. You cannot put warm items into the fridge as they will never cool down and you raise the temperature of the whole fridge. Tasty Toppings Three Bean Soup 2 tbls olive oil 1 onion, diced 2 carrots, diced 2 sticks celery, diced 2 cloves garlic, crushed 1tsp dried thyme or 1 'teabag' bouquet garni 1 tin chopped tomatoes 1 tbls tomato paste 750ml vegetable stock 1 tin chickpeas, rinsed and drained 1 tin kidney beans, rinsed and drained 1 tin cannellini beans, rinsed and drained 2tbls fresh parsley, chopped Method Shop-bought stocks www.rozannestevens.com Irish Independent 
