stocks
{ Ciaran Brennan 
    August 21 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/dolmen-dozen-26370755.html }
Broker tries to pick winners in a tight spread of UK and eurozone stocks in a fund aimed to give investors with the ?5,000 minimum entry a run in the medium term LAST June may have seemed like crazy time to launch a pure equity fund given the rollercoaster ride that the markets were experiencing, but following on-going client enquiries stockbroking firm Dolmen launched its Dolmen Dozen Fund at the start of the summer. With a minimum investment of ?5,000, it is based on the company's top twelve global stock picks which it published annually. It is aimed at the retail investor with a bit of spare cash looking to take a punt on a number of Irish, UK and continental European stocks. "We have pitched it at a level where it is attractive to a retail investor who may want a bit of diversification from their investments for a small amount of money, but haven't got the facilities to spread that across a number of stocks or may not have enough knowledge or access to knowledge to gain access to stocks like Addidas for example," explains David Beaton, head of fund management at Dolmen. As well as Addidas, the fund also includes a number of well known stocks such as Aviva, Bank of Ireland, British Land, BHP Billiton, Grafton, GlaxoSimithKline, Independent News & Media, Kerry Group, Ryanair, Sterling Energy and Vodafone. According to Mr Beaton, the company takes a top-down approach to investing in blue chip stocks, looking at the overall global macro picture, where growth rates are going for economies, where interest and inflation rates are potentially going, then drilling down further to see what sectors potentially would perform best in those environments and focusing on stocks within those sectors. "Certainly investor confidence has been dented by the correction in the market in May and June, but undoubtedly there is still value there," says Beaton. "The landscape for the majority of blue chip companies hasn't changed significantly. Those companies that have very strong balance sheets, very strong cash flows, continue to pay out strong dividends and support share buybacks. "While higher interest rates are a drag on growth generally both on a global macro basis and on a company specific basis, there is enough quality out there to over-ride these headwinds." Individual stocks are constantly reviewed for performance, and already Dolmen has removed Fyffes and replaced it with BHP Billiton. "If we feel, as was the case with with Fyffes, that the potential for upside in the share price was limited - and that followed research on the company and meetings with management - we just felt there were better growth opportunities elsewhere," said Mr Beaton. The interest so far seems to indicate that not every retail investor has run for cover into conservative investments. Around ?2m has been invested to date in the fund. But Mr Beaton insists that investors should be aware that the fund carries substantial risk and that it is a medium-term investment. "Because it is a narrow fund with only 12 stocks in it, you haven't got the same diversification potential that you would have in a much bigger fund covering a much bigger range of stocks. "You are picking a small number of stocks, so therefore the risk attached to that is obviously significantly more than having a more diversified and widespread portfolio where the typical equity fund could have 200-300 stocks in it." Before its launch as a fund this year, the Dolmen Dozen has shown good performance to date' and in 2005 the portfolio of stocks rose by 26pc alone. Since its launch, it has been down 1.25pc as the market volatility has taken its toll. "With the backdrop of higher interest rates and higher oil prices and geopolitical situation, the volatility remains," said Mr Beaton. "The fund trades broadly in line with the market, but people looking to invest in this shouldn't be looking to buy and exit the fund in a few months. It's a bit of a slow burner. "It is really aimed at people who have a bit of money and who are looking to put it in the market and are quite happy to leave it there for a period of time where they are not going to need it for a couple of years." It carries an annual management fee of 0.75pc and has no entry or exit fees but investors, as always, should be aware of the standard 23pc exit tax on gains that are made on investments within the fund. 
