abortion
{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:53, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039457/Michigan-high-school-teacher-sparks-outrage-barring-student-writing-gay-mothers.html }
When a Michigan high school student was given a class assignment to write about an issue she felt strongly about, her mind immediately turned to her mothers' sex-same marriage, but she says her teacher told her that could offend her classmates.   Destiney McDermitt, a 17-year-old junior at Hill McCloy High School in Montrose, said she felt her teacher's refusal to let her address the subject struck her as inappropriate and left her deeply offended.  The assignment, given to McDermitt's class earlier this month, entailed composing a speech on a topic that was important to students and taking a stand for or against it, M-Live reported. The teacher, who has not been named, allegedly told McDermitt she couldn’t write about same-sex marriage because the topic could offend someone in the class, according to McDermitt and other students in the classroom at the time. McDermitt wanted to ask her classmates if the topic offended them, but the teacher allegedly said no.  According to Destiney's mother Angela McDermitt-Jackson, the teacher further told the 17-year-old that she did not want to read or grade a speech discussing gay marriage.  'So she was denied and discriminated to write a speech on gay marriage because of the teacher's biased opinion,' McDermitt-Jackson told M-Live. 'I find it very offensive and unacceptable that a teacher who teaches our children in our absence...would say something like this to a young child.'     Destiney wrote a complaint letter to school administrators and later transferred to a different class. She has received support from other students.  Linden Moore, Montrose Community Schools superintendent, said the district investigated the incident and concluded McDermitt’s topic was not the only one denied and that the teacher needed to be more clear about the parameters of her assignments. The teacher also reportedly barred another student from writing about animal cruelty.    'The teacher was thinking smaller and the kids were thinking bigger,' Moore said. In the description of the 'Take a Stand Speech' assignment, there were no restrictions that applied specifically to same-sex marriage. The only topics banned from being picked were issues written about in another class or 'anything that is awkward or inappropriate for a school audience.' Abortion was listed as an example. A section of the school policy titled 'Controversial Issues' states the Montrose Board of Education believes that the consideration of controversial issues have a legitimate place in the instruction in schools. McDermitt’s parents, McDermitt-Jackson and Chris Jackson, were married in Illinois months before the 2015 US Supreme Court ruling legalized same-sex marriage across the country.  McDermitt-Jackson was upset to hear her daughter was not allowed to write about the topic. 'We’re grown adults. These are our children,' McDermitt-Jackson said. 'We went through issues when we decided to be together, but these are our children. They don’t need to be subjected to it.'   
