abortion
{ By Brian Marks For Dailymail.com and Adam S. Levy For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:58, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7964143/Future-claims-alleged-baby-mama-publicized-sex-life-money-mint-fame.html }
Future has sued a woman named Eliza Seraphin - who claims they share a daughter named Reign together - amid allegations she's publicizing their sex life to get money from him and mint her celebrity. The rapper, 36, is asking for damages in his case accusing Seraphin of defamation and invasion of privacy, TMZ reported Monday. While he makes no mention of his potential paternity with her in the court docs, he does admit to past having sex with Seraphin during a timeframe between 2016 and 2018, and says he would have never become romantically involved with her initially had he known about her lack of discretion. Future said that Seraphin spoke about intimate details of his anatomy on Stationhead's Rah Ali's Onsite, and then distributed the appearance via her social media. The Life Is Good artist noted in court docs that Seraphin has made other false claims about him - once saying he tried to have her killed after she refused to have an abortion.  He said in legal docs that her behavior has caused him emotional distress and damaged his brand, and is requesting she cease speaking about him publicly.  In docs filed to the court last month, Future said Seraphin is violent and displays obsessive behavior caused by a mental illness, TMZ reported last month. The filings showed that Future (real name: Nayvadius Wilburn) is asking the judge to order a psychological evaluation for Seraphin. The Jumpman rapper claims that she has previously been violent and has been arrested for assaulting former lovers with firearms. Future also points to her behavior on social media as a symptom of mental illness, saying Seraphin regularly posts about her paternity battle with the musician, and she often responds to messages about the ongoing suit in her Instagram Stories. Future also claimed that he feared his alleged baby mama might harm him or the child, and he also implied that the dispute might cause psychological harm to Reign. As in his previous filings, Wilburn doesn't acknowledge if he's the child's father, though he claims that Eliza was taking fertility pills in the hopes of getting pregnant with a wealthy man's child.  Back in October, Future filed documents alleging that Seraphin was just trying to extract money from him. She originally claimed in court documents she didn't have a checking account or any source of income, but he pointed to her own Instagram page, which had multiple photos that seemed to indicate she had one or more cars, as well as advertised brand ambassadorships. Future's legal team also alleged that Seraphin had a lease on a 2018 Range Rover. She claims to have sold her car to pay her expenses in her original filing from April, but a Range Rover was seen in her photos as recently as December 9. Meanwhile, Eliza seemed to weigh in on Future's filings Friday evening on Instagram with a text post. 'The ability to do some FOUL s*** & play VICTIM is a true form of MENTAL ILLNESS,' she wrote, adding the 100 symbol. Earlier, she answered questions about the court battle in her Insta Stories. 'Did he take the [paternity] test yet?' asked one person, to which she replied 'Nah' in huge rotating letters. Another person asked, 'Why the f*** they talk so much s*** about you but fail to hold future a** accountable?' 'He warned me it would be like this,' replied Seraphin, to which she later added a clarification. 'When I say "He warned me" I mean he told me you all would take his side no matter what he does. This statement was after Reign was born,' she wrote.   
