abortion
{ By Megan Sheets  and Keith Griffith For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:45, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7962017/Opera-singer-rammed-Mar-Lago-security-blockade-mental-health-treatment.html }
The Connecticut opera singer who rammed an SUV through security checkpoints at Mar-a-Lago and narrowly escaped Secret Service gunfire will receive mental health treatment.   Hannah Roemhild, 30, appeared in court on Monday, where her attorney David Roth described her 'long history' of mental illness and said she had failed to take her medications prior to leading a state trooper on a wild chase through Palm Beach, Florida, on Friday.  The defendant, who reportedly refused to attend a bail hearing on Saturday, smiled in the court room at Palm Beach County Jail but appeared overwhelmed during the proceedings, as seen in footage from the Palm Beach Post.   Roth stressed that Roemhild has no criminal history and said she is 'a good person, a good citizen, who, as I indicated, was off her medication and created a terribly unfortunate situation that brings her here today'.  The attorney said he and prosecutors agreed to have Roemhild's case transferred to mental health court and that she be moved from the jail to a local mental-health center for evaluation prior to her next hearing, which is scheduled for February 7.    Palm Beach County Judge Ted Booras signed off on the agreement.   Authorities have said that there is no indication Roemhild knew she was speeding toward Mar-a-Lago, which serves as President Donald Trump's primary residence.  She is currently facing two counts of aggravated assault on a police officer and is expected to be brought up on federal charges later on.  Roth told the judge that Roemhild was not well enough to meet with her attorney on Sunday but noted that she was 'doing much better' after law enforcement supplied her with her regular medications shortly following her arrest.   He said his client 'thanks the sheriff's office for how they handled her situation' and praised authorities as having done 'a phenomenal job' with the case.  'The parents can't be more appreciative,' Roth said. Roemhild's parents were not present at the hearing.  Speaking to reporters outside the court, Roth called the incident 'a very sad situation'.   Asked if he could disclose anything Roemhild had told him about what happened on Friday, Roth replied: 'No. That would be called "attorney-client privilege".' The bizarre incident unfolded around noon on Friday after a Florida state trooper responded to reports of a white woman acting irrationally and dancing on the top of a car in the parking lot of a motel near Mar-a-Lago.  When the trooper arrived at the parking lot, Roemhild - who police say was impaired - got off the top of the car and into her black SUV.  Authorities say they approached her as she sat inside the SUV but she would not respond when they tapped on the window.  The trooper smashed through the window glass when they saw her rifling through her glove box.  Roemhild sped off and led police on a high-speed pursuit, at times driving on the wrong side of the road at speeds nearing 70 mph.  She crashed through two outer security checkpoints before authorities caught up to her and opened fire, according to police.  Roemhild was speeding toward a third when sheriff's deputies and Secret Service agents fired numerous rounds at her car.   She kept driving and investigators believe she picked up a female relative before authorities located her car using a license plate reader.  As cops tracked her to a Studio 6 motel in West Palm Beach, she ran from her car outside a nearby motel and was tackled by a trooper.  Although the rented SUV she was driving was riddled with bullet holes, it appears Roemhild was completely unscathed. Video of her arrest shows her being taken into custody in good condition with no apparent injuries.  The checkpoint that Roemhild crashed through, a series of concrete barriers and armed officers, is blocks away from the actual resort. Palm Beach Sheriff Ric Bradshaw said Roemhild wasn't 'even remotely close' to getting into the 'inner perimeter' of the resort in Palm Beach.      Trump was not at Mar-a-Lago at the time, but arrived at the resort with First Lady Melania Trump a few hours later, at 7.27pm on Friday.   Bradshaw said the incident was 'not a terrorist thing' and that Roemhild was 'obviously impaired somehow' as she rammed through blockades and then fled as the Secret Service opened fire, shooting to kill.  Neighbors from Roemhild's hometown of Middletown, Connecticut have come forward to describe her history of bizarre behavior, saying they feared something like this would happen. 'One day, we started hearing yells and she was just acting really out of character and I guess just snapped,' neighbor Cathy Russo told WFSB-TV. 'There were days when she had off days, let's put it that way.'  'I see her go out and I would worry if she would be ok,' Russo said.  However, Russo said she never imagined that Roemhild would be involved in something as shocking as a confrontation with the Secret Service. 'It's not the Hannah I knew,' Russo said.  At Roemhild's own home, the lights were on but nobody answered the door, the CBS affiliate reported.  Roemhild is a talented professional opera singer who has performed in Europe as well as Carnegie Hall in New York. It's not clear whether Roemhild knew that she was approaching Mar-a-Lago as she wildly fled a state trooper, who had initially sought to question her about why she was dancing on top of her SUV at an upscale hotel nearby. However, the soprano made her disgust with Trump apparent on Facebook, where one of her posts included a sign reading 'not my president.'  The post, from two days after Trump's inauguration, shows the Women's March in Washington DC, and a crowd of people wearing pink 'p***y hats.' One protester's sign reads 'not my president' and 'love trumps hate.' Months later, in June 2017, Roemhild also posted an image to Facebook appearing to mock Trump by showing an image of cartoon character Donald Duck morphing into the president. Roemhild is registered to vote as a Democrat in Middletown, Connecticut, public records show. During the 2016 presidential primaries, she expressed her support for Sanders with a post praising the Vermont Democrat's pro-abortion positions, using the hashtag '#feelthebern.'  According to her Instagram account, Roemhild was in Palm Beach for a performance on January 28, fresh off appearances in Los Angeles and San Diego.  Mar-a-Lago has been the scene of several intrusions since Trump became president.  On January 5, just hours after Trump and his family had left the club following a two-week vacation, a Florida man who had been dishonorably discharged from the Marines for sex offenses was arrested after he got past two checkpoints by falsely identifying himself as part of the president's helicopter crew.  In March 2019, Chinese national Yujing Zhang gained access to Mar-a-Lago while carrying a laptop, phones and other electronic gear. That led to initial speculation that the 33-year-old businesswoman from Shanghai might be a spy, but she was never charged with espionage.  Text messages she exchanged with a trip organizer indicated she was a fan of the president and wanted to meet him or his family to discuss possible deals. Zhang was found guilty of trespassing and lying to Secret Service agents and was sentenced to time served.  
