abortion
{ By Glenn Garner For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:27, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7959891/Milla-Jovovich-welcomes-daughter-husband-Paul-WS-Anderson.html }
Milla Jovovich has welcomed her third daughter with husband Paul WS Anderson.     Us Weekly confirmed the new addition Sunday after she revealed she was heading to the hospital.    She took to Instagram the day before with a selfie, as she prepared to head out for the big day. Jovovich, 44, wrote in the caption: 'Due date is tomorrow so getting ready to go to the hospital at anytime now!! It’s funny because I thought having our 3rd would be a piece of cake, but I’m actually really nervous, now that I know what to expect!  'Anyway, hopefully the next post I make will be a picture of our newest little girlie girl! Wish me luck everyone!!' She announced the pregnancy back in August with a mirror selfie of her baby bump in a stunning black dress.  In her announcement, the Dazed and Confused star opened up about the fears she had surrounding her pregnancy after undergoing an emergency abortion.   Two years earlier, Milla had been forced to have an emergency abortion after going into preterm labor.  The Fifth Element actress wrote: 'Knocked up again. After I found out I was pregnant 13 weeks ago, I had a mixture of feelings ranging between complete joy and utter terror.  'Because of my age and losing the last pregnancy I didn’t want to get attached to this potential baby too quickly. That was obviously not fun and the last few months have been my family and I living on pins and needles waiting for a slew of different test results to come in and spending most of our time in doctors offices.' She added: 'Thank goodness we’re in the clear AND we found out that we’ve been blessed with another girl! Anyway, wish me and my baby luck! I send you all a lot of love and I’ll keep you posted on my progression!' Jovovich and Anderson, 54, whom she met when he directed her in the 2002 film Resident Evil, also share daughters Ever, 12, and Dashiel, four.  
