abortion
{ By Associated Press   Published:  18:05, 2 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7958509/Kansas-GOPs-push-bill-make-God-Trust-signs-mandatory-public-building-school.html }
Conservative Republicans are pushing for a law requiring government buildings and schools across Kansas to post the national motto of 'In God We Trust,' an idea critics say is part of a broader effort by the Christian right to promote their religious beliefs in public life. A Kansas House committee heard testimony Thursday on a bill sponsored by 13 GOP lawmakers - led by Kansas state Rep. Michael Capps - that would, among other things, require all public school classrooms and libraries to post the motto.  The national American Atheists organization said such a law would stigmatize nonbelievers and religious minorities and represent a step toward harsher anti-LGBTQ and anti-abortion measures.  Nick Fish, president of American Atheists, said in a statement: 'This bill has nothing to do with educating Kansas students. It's clear some lawmakers care more about forcing a religious message into school classrooms than teaching the facts.'    Wichita Republican Capps, the bill's lead sponsor, said the motto should be displayed to acknowledge the nation's 'history and founding principles.'   Congress adopted 'In God We Trust' as the national motto in the 1956 at the approval of President Dwight Eisenhower, but Capps said the phrase echoes words in the national anthem and the Declaration of Independence.  His bill specifies either a durable poster or framed picture with the motto, at least 11 inches by 14 inches, with American and Kansas flags.  Under the measure, the motto must be posted as soon as schools, colleges, cities and counties receive donations, either of 'durable' posters or money to cover the costs.  It drew immediate opposition from Democrats, and even one conservative Republican expressed concern about the bill's scope.  The bill mirrors model legislation promoted by some conservative Christian groups. The hearing Thursday tapped briefly into longstanding tensions between people who want to keep government from promoting religious beliefs and those who argue that faith's role in public life has been narrowed too much.  American churches also are wrestling with a rise in the number of Americans with no religious affiliation. 'These bills are not innocuous. They're part of a larger strategy,' said American Atheists spokesman Tom Van Denburgh. 'A lot of these campaigns are focusing on children. I mean, if you put 'In God We Trust' in schools, you're trying to essentially indoctrinate them.' Eight states require schools to display the national motto; Florida, Tennessee, Mississippi, Utah, Virginia, Kentucky, Louisiana and South Dakota, according to the Education Commission of the States.   Alabama, Arizona, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Texas have passed legislation that says it may be posted in public schools and it's allowed in Georgia and Ohio only if donated.   In addition, Arkansas has a law similar to the one Kansas is considering. Capps noted that federal courts have repeatedly ruled that its display does not violate the guarantees of religious freedom under the U.S. Constitution's First Amendment.  Told after the hearing of Atheist America's view that posting the motto would stigmatize non-believers, he said: 'I can't control what someone else thinks. It's not my responsibility to be in their heads.' Capps noted that the state constitution mentions God, starting in its preamble and added, 'Does having the reference to God in the Kansas state constitution make every atheist feel second-class?' Rep. Stephanie Clayton, a Kansas City-area Democrat, said she has 'heartburn' over the potential message to atheists. She also raised concern that the bill could allow groups like the Ku Klux Klan to donate posters or money for posters. Capps said donors wouldn't be credited. Rep. Blake Carpenter, a conservative Wichita-area Republican, asked Capps whether it was 'slight overkill' to require the motto to be posted in every classroom and library, rather than in the main entrance of a school. Capps replied: 'Generally speaking, every classroom has had an American flag in it. We don't consider that to be overkill.' Committee Chairman John Barker is a Republican from Abilene, the hometown of President Eisenhower. But Barker said he personally likes a Latin motto Congress first adopted in the 1780s that remains on the U.S. seal. 'E Pluribus Unum,' Barker said. 'From many, we are one.' Capps said in a statement: 'Misguided people have been attempting to tear apart of the foundation of our country and our states for decades and the efforts by fringe groups today are no different. If fringe groups are offended, they are welcome to move elsewhere. 'I will continue to pray for the atheists in Kansas - praying they will come to find the love our country our Founders showed.'  By Representatives Capps, Bergquist, Blex, Collins, Donohoe, Dove, Garber, Helmer, Houser, Howard, Rhiley, Seiwert and Waggoner   AN ACT concerning the national motto; relating to the display thereof in public buildings. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:  Section 1. (a) If sufficient funds are available pursuant to subsection (c), each school district superintendent, chief administrative officer of a public postsecondary educational institution and chief administrative officer of a state or municipal building, or the respective designee of each such officer, shall prominently display in a conspicuous place a durable poster or framed image of the national motto in accordance with subsection (b). Such displays shall be located in each:  (1) Public elementary and secondary school library and classroom;  (2) public postsecondary educational institution; and  (3) state or municipal building.  (b) (1) The display required under subsection (a) shall contain:  (A) The national motto of the United States: 'In God We Trust';  (B) an accurate representation of the flag of the United States; and  (C) an accurate representation of the flag of the state of Kansas.  (2) The national motto shall be displayed in a large font size on an easily readable poster or framed image that is at least 11 inches wide by 14 inches high, and shall be the central focus of such display.  (c) Displays required by this section shall be donated or shall be purchased by the respective state or municipal agency solely with funds made available through voluntary contributions to such state or municipal agency or to the department of administration.  (d) As used in this section:  (1) The terms 'municipality' and 'municipal' are interchangeable and mean the same as the term 'municipality' is defined in K.S.A. 75- 6102, and amendments thereto, but do not include school districts or postsecondary educational institutions;  (2) 'postecondary educational institution' means the same as that term is defined in K.S.A. 74-3201b, and amendments thereto;  (3) 'school district' means a unified school district organized and operated under the laws of this state;  (4) 'state' means the same as that term is defined in K.S.A. 75-6102, and amendments thereto; and  (5) 'state or municipal building' means a building owned or leased by the state or a municipality. It does not include a building owned by the state or a municipality that is leased by a private entity, whether for profit or not-for-profit, or a building held in title by the state or a municipality solely for reasons of revenue bond financing.  Sec. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its publication in the statute book.  
