abortion
{ By Mail Online Reporter   Published:  16:19, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-7952821/Stunning-images-worldwide-photojournalism-contest-war-weather-extremes-humanity.html }
A stunning series of images showing war, natural disasters and both the best and worst of humanity have been selected as part of a world-wide citizen photo contest. More than 12,000 photos were submitted to the competition titled #Photojournalism2020 run by free-to-use photography app Agora. The winner of the international photojournalism competition, pictured here, won $1,000. The Self-taught Filipino photographer, @renebernal, captured winning shot 'Young guns.' This staggering photo is taken in a dumpster in San Dionisio, a district located in the southern part of Metro Manila. The winning entry is a spectacularly moody, black and white image showing slum children playing with toy guns in the Philippines. The stark silhouettes of their bodies as they play on a steaming garbage dump are contrasted against a cloud-mottled sky. Click through to see the rest of the winners...  One of the finalists, @sakter, captured the shot 'Devotees return home' which shows dozens of colorfully-dressed men clinging precariously to the outside of a train as it returns from a Muslim festival in Bangladesh. He took this shot at Dhaka's airport railway station during Biswa Ijtema, the second largest congregation of Muslim community after Hajj. Photographer @chanthar captured 'Street children' with the aim of donating his money prize to them if he won. The image shows how dirty and dangerous the environment is for street children in Myanmar. Photographer @kriswantoginting managed to capture 'The biggest eruption of Mt. Sinabung' in Tigapancur, He used the image as a message to show how humanity should be taking better care of our planet, saying the eruption shows nature being 'angry.' Mt. Sinabung, an active volcano, hasn't stopped erupting since 2013. Photographer @ray_photographer, captured refugees in Barcelona camping next to a sign urging tourists to go home. For years, Barcelonans saw mass tourism as a potential threat to their coastal oasis, today however, much of the city is inhabited by refugees after 150,000 people demanded the government allow more refugees into the country last year.  'Two firefighters stopping as a tree candles in front of them while on a patrol' by @RhythmOutdoors, captured the wildfires in British Columbia, Canada. There are roughly 8,000 wildfires in Canada each year which can devastate communities and claim both human and animal lives. @franciscopaez photographed a women's protest in Buenos Aires in Argentina to legalize abortion. In Argentina abortion is considered a crime against a life, unless performed by a certified doctor under certain circumstances, and can result in up to fifteen years of prison for anyone who induces the procedure. This protest march in Barcelona, Spain was set against the imprisonment of the pro-independence politicians. The image captured by @oscar_peneloIt shows a massive march demanding the reconstruction of a country. In the background we see the Sagrada Família, one of the symbols of Barcelona and Catalonia, still under construction in the distance. ' Fire' by @damiane shows firefighters battling a blaze in Tbilisi in Georgia. In the photo, the firefighters survey the flames shooting out of a burning building as one sprays the inferno with a water hose.  This haunting image titled 'Revolting Tears' by @notsotoya was taken in Beirut, Lebanon. In the picture, an elderly woman holds her hand to her face in grief as protesters fly the Lebanese flag overhead. Lebanon has seen a recent increase in civil protests, triggered by corruption and austerity.  'Heart of Fire' ('Corazón de fuego' in Spanish) by @donaldobarros shows a protester throwing fire into the distance in Caracas, Venezuela. Since 2014, Venezuela has seen civil insurrection, protests and multiple political demonstrations as the country combats high levels of inflation, violence and the under-funding of basic services. @amdadhossai captured this heartbreaking shot of a homeless woman sleeping on a trash pile in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The woman is pictured curled up on a heap of garbage, surrounded by waste that overflows into the river below. Millions of people are estimated to live in the overcrowded slums of Dhaka, where they often face harassment, violence and extortion. 
