abortion
{ By Andrew Bullock For Mailonline   Published:  01:04, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7950173/Madonna-61-declares-shes-never-guy-small-d-k-Madame-X-show.html }
The x-rated jokes came thick and fast from Madonna as she kicked off her London dates at the Palladium this week. The 61-year-old Like A Virgin songstress is currently on her Madame X tour, and brashly boasted during the opening show on Wednesday night that she has 'never been with a guy with a small d**k and that she's 'good on her knees'. Madonna asked the audience: 'What do you call a man with a small penis? The answer is, I wouldn't f**king know. I've never been with a guy with a small d**k. You know size matters, don't pretend that it doesn't!' Madonna was married to director Guy Ritchie, 51, and Sean Penn, 59, and counts Portuguese model Kevin Sampaio, 31, Hollywood legend Warren Beatty, 82, and rapper Vanilla Ice, 52, as her ex lovers. According to The Sun, the star, who was forced to cancel a string of dates at the beginning of the eagerly-anticipated tour, sat on a chair, adding: 'Usually I kneel for about 20 minutes and that's fine. I'm good at it, so I've been told.' She later grabbed a beer from an audience member and then crudely remarked: 'There you go, we have just shared STDs.' The star is said to have made a joke about classical composer Mozart 'coming out of her p***y' and declared that she trawls gay hook up app Grindr when she needs a new assistant. Additionally, Madonna was forced to finish bang on time as she joked that Westminster City Council would attempt to crush her with a nine-ton iron curtain if she breaks her curfew.  She said: 'I’ve got to make it fast. There’s an iron curtain that’s going to come down at a certain time. I’ve been warned by Westminster Council. I hear it weighs nine tons, and that would hurt.' If the show had overrun, Madonna would have faced a fine for breaking curfew. Wednesday kicked off Madonna's 14-night run at the Palladium over the next three weeks, having cancelled 10 previous gig on the Madame X tour due to illness, which so far has been to Lisbon and the USA. The highest-grossing female solo touring artist took concert-goers through five acts of her classic hits and new recordings from her 2019 Madame X album - her first release after living as a recluse in Lisbon for two years, as well as eight costume changes.  The star was also joined on stage by her seven-year-old twin daughters Stella and Estere and Mercy, 14, as well as her new toyboy boyfriend - backing dancer Ahlamalik Williams, 25.  On the first night, Daily Mail's Julia Lawrence declared the show a triumph, writing: 'Painful hip and knee be damned, she dazzled, the absolute trouper she is,' while fans, who paid hundreds of pounds and travelled from across Europe to see the superstar, posted five star reviews online.  Delighted fan Bidisha tweeted: 'Her ability to innovate musically is incredible - to keep sounding fresh....to refuse nostalgia and complacency, to stay hungry. Re Madonna's injury, YES, she is clearly performing through immense, obvious pain. But odd moments (seconds) of her incredible dancing do flash in.' George Smith tweeted: 'OMFG last night was PERFECT! @madonna was AMAZING - funny, focused,. sounded and looked stunning. I've never been part of such a buzzy and supportive audience. Seeing her up close and personal in a theatre setting was an experience I'll never forget.' 'Queen Madge you were amazing! 20 years on from the last time I watched you,' added concert-goer Jill Wilding.  She appeared ready for her second night at the Palladium as she arrived in her chauffeur-driven car, flanked by security on Thursday. The La Isla Bonita legend showed off her quirky sense of style in a Malcolm McDowell Clockwork Orange hoodie and layers of chunky gold chain necklaces, before emerging hours later in a black Versace jacket looking weary.  Attempting to keep a low-profile, Madonna donned a large black hat and red tinted sunglasses. The Vogue singer layered a long black padded coat atop of her baggy hoodie and finished off her casual ensemble with black leggings and patent shoes.  Madonna appeared focused and clutched a smoothie as she made her way into the venue.  Madonna has swapped arenas for intimate theatre venues for her Madame X tour, and on Wednesday took to the stage at the 2,286-capacity Palladium. The pop diva wore knee supports as she performed the first gig of her 14-date UK leg of her world tour after cancelling Monday's show and being ordered to rest by doctors over knee and hip injuries.  Gushing social media reviews and five star write-ups from critics heralded the delayed gig, her first London date since 2015, as worth the wait.  The highest-grossing female solo touring artist took concert-goers through five acts of her classic hits and new recordings from her 2019 Madame X album - her first release after living as a recluse in Lisbon for two years, as well as eight costume changes.  The star was also joined on stage by her seven-year-old twin daughters Stella and Estere and Mercy, 14, as well as her new toyboy boyfriend - backing dancer Ahlamalik Williams, 25.   The energetic show was not hindered by the knee and hip injuries that have forced her to cancel previous dates.  Last month, Madonna described being 'in tears from the pain of my injuries'. She added: 'I consider myself a warrior. I never quit, I never give in, I never give up! However, this time I have to listen to my body and accept my pain is a warning.'  Referencing her ongoing injuries, the singer shared an Instagram photo of her skull-topped cane leaning against the sears of the London Palladium after Wednesday's show.  Madonna reportedly replies on stretching, warm-ups, meditation and daily ice baths to ease the pain before gigs, refusing to compromise the choreography of her shows, something which both the critics and fans noticed in their gushing reviews.  On Saturday the singer told fans she was 'deeply sorry' but that she needed to 'put her body and her health first', cancelling Monday's schedulled gig. 'Under doctors guidance I have been told to rest for a few days,' she wrote on Instagram. 'As you all know, I have injuries that have plagued me since the beginning of the tour but I must always listen to my body.  'Please know that it hurts me more than you can imagine to have to cancel any shows.' She also cancelled dates in New York, Miami Beach, Los Angeles, Boston, and Lisbon.  Madonna assured fans she was ready to perform before Wednesday's concert as she shared a video of her daughter Estere drumming backstage with the all-female backing act Orquestra Batukadeiras, who are from Portugal, where the singer now lives. She wrote alongside the video: 'Hello London......... We Finally Made it #madamextheatre #thelondonpalladium'.  To be honest, I was nervous I wouldn't be able to write a review of Madonna's long-awaited Madame X show last night. Not because she cancelled – again (this has happened ten times so far, due to an unspecified injury, said to be a dodgy knee and hip) – but because the Queen of Pop has built up a reputation for being ridiculously late on stage during this tour. Not fashionably late, a whole diva TWO HOURS late, forcing fans to dance into the small hours, on a school night. But last night at London's Palladium, Madonna remembered her manners. And painful hip and knee be damned, she dazzled, the absolute trouper she is. Yes, she looked sore and stiff at times, yet the next minute she was performing an impressive handstand and writhing athletically on a grand piano lid. At 61, she's still got it. She can dance. The Madame X tour comes with a difference. She was intent on it being an intimate, and interactive event, and had hence banned all phones. Everyone was instructed to place their device in a lockable pouch on arrival, which only security could open, as you left or slipped out to designated phone zones. Although we had been warned, there were wobbly scenes, reminiscent of the daemon splicing scenes from Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials, as phones were silenced, muzzled and wrestled away. 'But I neeeeed it…' It did mean, however, that the usual distracting glow of a thousand photo screens being held aloft was absent which made a refreshing change, and Madonna stressed how wonderful it was 'to look into the audience's eyes', as they fretted about missed calls from the babysitter. The show opened with a motto from the late American novelist James Baldwin: 'Art is here to prove that all safety is an illusion... Artists are here to disturb the peace,' and finishes with police riot shields, attacking dancers under a video montage of a street riot. All the time, Madonna looked on, clad in a sequin-encrusted Revolutionary war costume, complete with tricorn hat and eye patch. The 1984 pop princess, performing a sassy 'Holiday' on Top Of The Pops, in rubber bangles and leg warmers, seemed a very long way away. She took the 'immersive, interactive' theatre feel even further, by climbing down into the audience at one point to truly terrify some poor soul in the 'posh seats' and steal a swig of his beer. She also took a Polaroid selfie, which she auctioned, on stage, to raise money for her Raising Malawi charity. It went for £1,500 – around the price of a top ticket. We all know Madonna has an opinion or two, and isn't shy about sharing them, which means anyone who likes their concerts light on sermons, and heavy on bop-along-old favourites, is going to be disappointed by Madame X. She takes on everything: gun control, abortion, Donald Trump, sex, religion, family, rape, violence, slavery and Brexit in her lyrics and soliloquies between songs. Some golden oldies made it, however. There was Vogue, La Isla Bonita and Express Yourself, and Like a Prayer which had the diehard fans delighted. A lot of material came from her Madame X album, of the same name, which wasn't necessarily a bad thing. It's said to be one of her best to date, combining a strange mix of disco, and Portuguese fado music, inspired by her move to Lisbon three years ago, to further her son David Banda's football career. In fact, the show was very much a family affair: three of her adopted daughters, seven-year-old twins Stella and Estere and 14-year-old Mercy James joined her on stage along with a crowd of women at one point, to chant (disturbingly) 'I'm not your bitch!', after performing Nineties hit, Human Nature. Later, she performed Frozen while a video of her beautiful, and athletic, 23-year-old daughter dancing played in the background. Let's hope her medical woes have been laid to rest: she still has 14 gigs to get through in the capital. Somehow, I think she'll do it. 
