abortion
{ By James Pero For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:44, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7948997/Twitter-letting-users-flag-content-aimed-suppressing-voters-spread-lies-voter-registration.html }
Ahead of major U.S. elections, Twitter is giving users another tool to help call out harmful content. On Thursday, Twitter said it will enable users to begin reporting misinformation on voting, registration and any information that may be designed to suppress voters. The new flagging options It also cover someone who may be attempting to misrepresent their affiliation with a party. 'We’re turning on a tool for key moments of the 2020 US election that enables people to report misleading information about how to participate in an election or other civic event,' Twitter's security team said in a tweet.  The tool will help augment others rolled out by Twitter to mitigate misinformation campaigns like those that flooded social media during the 2016 US presidential election. A decision to start treating voter suppression more seriously marks an evolution from prior policy by Twitter. In 2016, some users pointed out that attempts at notifying the platform of misinformation went unheeded.  Last month Twitter also said it will bring back labels for politicians using its platform to make sure voters recognize where information is coming from.  Last year it also made the pivotal move to ban political advertising, and prohibit any ads that appeal for votes, any solicitations for campaign contributions and any political content. According to the company, it will define political content to include any ad that references a candidate, political party, government official, ballot measure, or legislative or judicial outcome.  Additionally, the ban also applies to what the company is referring to as 'issue' oriented advertising - non-political ads from candidates, political parties and elected or appointed government officials that focus on a particular topics.   It still allows ads related to social causes such as climate change, gun control and abortion, but people and groups running such ads won´t be able to target those ads down to a user´s ZIP code or use political categories such as 'conservative' or 'liberal.' With the first national election since 2016 quickly approaching, Twitter and its rival Facebook have returned to the center of attention when it come to efforts to prevent misinformation.  
