abortion
{ By Joanna Crawley For Mailonline   Published:  01:01, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7945275/Madonna-leaves-London-Palladium-returns-stage-Madame-X-tour.html }
Madonna made her return to the stage on Wednesday night, keeping her date at the London Palladium after cancelling ten shows during her Madame X Tour. The pop diva, 61, wore knee supports as she performed the first gig of her 14-date UK leg of her Madame X tour after cancelling Monday's show and being ordered to rest by doctors over knee and hip injuries. Gushing social media reviews and five star write-ups from critics heralded the delayed gig, her first London date since 2015, as worth the wait.  Wednesday night marked Madonna's first Madame X gig in London after she pulled out of Monday night's opening show due to knee and hip injury – the tenth cancelled date of the world tour. Madonna has swapped arenas for intimate theatre venues for her Madame X tour, and on Wednesday took to the stage at the 2,286-capacity Palladium.  The highest-grossing female solo touring artist took concert-goers through five acts of her classic hits and new recordings from her 2019 Madame X album - her first release after living as a recluse in Lisbon for two years, as well as eight costume changes.  The star was also joined on stage by her seven-year-old twin daughters Stella and Estere and Mercy, 14, as well as her new toyboy boyfriend - backing dancer Ahlamalik Williams, 25.   The energetic show was not hindered by the knee and hip injuries that have forced her to cancel previous dates. Last month she described being 'in tears from the pain of my injuries'. She added: 'I consider myself a warrior. I never quit, I never give in, I never give up! However, this time I have to listen to my body and accept my pain is a warning.'  Referencing her ongoing injuries, the singer shared an Instagram photo of her skull-topped cane leaning against the sears of the London Palladium after Wednesday's show.  The star wore knee supports for the comeback show, telling the audience that she was thrilled to have 'made it' on stage. She said: 'I'm happy to have made it. How could I not do a show in London.' Despite her high-energy performance, incorporating high kicks, the splits, and yoga poses, the 'Vogue' hitmaker also admitted things were 'not good in the knee and the hips' and asked for a chair to be brought on stage at one point. She quipped: 'Normally, I kneel for about 20 minutes here. I've been told I'm very good at it.'   Madonna reportedly replies on stretching, warm-ups, meditation and daily ice baths to ease the pain before gigs, refusing to compromise the choreography of her shows, something which both the critics and fans noticed in their gushing reviews.   Daily Mail's Julia Lawrence declared the show a triumph, writing: 'Painful hip and knee be damned, she dazzled, the absolute trouper she is,' while fans, who paid hundreds of pounds and travelled from across Europe to see the superstar, posted five star reviews online.  Delighted fan Bidisha tweeted: 'Her ability to innovate musically is incredible - to keep sounding fresh....to refuse nostalgia and complacency, to stay hungry. Re Madonna's injury, YES, she is clearly performing through immense, obvious pain. But odd moments (seconds) of her incredible dancing do flash in.' George Smith tweeted: 'OMFG last night was PERFECT! @madonna was AMAZING - funny, focused,. sounded and looked stunning. I've never been part of such a buzzy and supportive audience. Seeing her up close and personal in a theatre setting was an experience I'll never forget.' 'Queen Madge you were amazing! 20 years on from the last time I watched you,' added concert-goer Jill Wilding.  'Holy moly. Just seen #Madonna in concert. It was like an injection of life into the soul. Her voice.. the storytelling..her ability at 60+ to own the stage. The classics and the new. If you can get your hands on a ticket London go go go,' agreed Nimi Raja, while a fan named Jack declared: 'She doesn't still have 'it' - she is it.'  The show as also stuffed with humour. At one point the American star adopted a British accent and admitted she never realised how much her voice had changed when she lived in the UK while married to Guy Ritchie. The star admitted she couldn't understand why she was being mocked - until she heard old interviews and felt 'horrified and flabbergasted'. She had the audience laughing as she explained: 'I didn't know what anyone was talking about until I heard old interviews of myself. And then I was horrified and flabbergasted. Why did you let me do that to myself? 'It's all Guy Ritchie's fault. He made me to it.' On Saturday the singer told fans she was 'deeply sorry' but that she needed to 'put her body and her health first', cancelling Monday's schedulled gig. 'Under doctors guidance I have been told to rest for a few days,' she wrote on Instagram. 'As you all know, I have injuries that have plagued me since the beginning of the tour but I must always listen to my body.  'Please know that it hurts me more than you can imagine to have to cancel any shows.' She also cancelled dates in New York, Miami Beach, Los Angeles, Boston, and Lisbon.  Madonna assured fans she was ready to perform before Wednesday's concert as she shared a video of her daughter Estere drumming backstage with the all-female backing act Orquestra Batukadeiras, who are from Portugal, where the singer now lives. She wrote alongside the video: 'Hello London......... We Finally Made it #madamextheatre #thelondonpalladium'.  To be honest, I was nervous I wouldn't be able to write a review of Madonna's long-awaited Madame X show last night. Not because she cancelled – again (this has happened ten times so far, due to an unspecified injury, said to be a dodgy knee and hip) – but because the Queen of Pop has built up a reputation for being ridiculously late on stage during this tour. Not fashionably late, a whole diva TWO HOURS late, forcing fans to dance into the small hours, on a school night. But last night at London's Palladium, Madonna remembered her manners. And painful hip and knee be damned, she dazzled, the absolute trouper she is. Yes, she looked sore and stiff at times, yet the next minute she was performing an impressive handstand and writhing athletically on a grand piano lid. At 61, she's still got it. She can dance. The Madame X tour comes with a difference. She was intent on it being an intimate, and interactive event, and had hence banned all phones. Everyone was instructed to place their device in a lockable pouch on arrival, which only security could open, as you left or slipped out to designated phone zones. Although we had been warned, there were wobbly scenes, reminiscent of the daemon splicing scenes from Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials, as phones were silenced, muzzled and wrestled away. 'But I neeeeed it…' It did mean, however, that the usual distracting glow of a thousand photo screens being held aloft was absent which made a refreshing change, and Madonna stressed how wonderful it was 'to look into the audience's eyes', as they fretted about missed calls from the babysitter. The show opened with a motto from the late American novelist James Baldwin: 'Art is here to prove that all safety is an illusion... Artists are here to disturb the peace,' and finishes with police riot shields, attacking dancers under a video montage of a street riot. All the time, Madonna looked on, clad in a sequin-encrusted Revolutionary war costume, complete with tricorn hat and eye patch. The 1984 pop princess, performing a sassy 'Holiday' on Top Of The Pops, in rubber bangles and leg warmers, seemed a very long way away. She took the 'immersive, interactive' theatre feel even further, by climbing down into the audience at one point to truly terrify some poor soul in the 'posh seats' and steal a swig of his beer. She also took a Polaroid selfie, which she auctioned, on stage, to raise money for her Raising Malawi charity. It went for £1,500 – around the price of a top ticket. We all know Madonna has an opinion or two, and isn't shy about sharing them, which means anyone who likes their concerts light on sermons, and heavy on bop-along-old favourites, is going to be disappointed by Madame X. She takes on everything: gun control, abortion, Donald Trump, sex, religion, family, rape, violence, slavery and Brexit in her lyrics and soliloquies between songs. Some golden oldies made it, however. There was Vogue, La Isla Bonita and Express Yourself, and Like a Prayer which had the diehard fans delighted. A lot of material came from her Madame X album, of the same name, which wasn't necessarily a bad thing. It's said to be one of her best to date, combining a strange mix of disco, and Portuguese fado music, inspired by her move to Lisbon three years ago, to further her son David Banda's football career. In fact, the show was very much a family affair: three of her adopted daughters, seven-year-old twins Stella and Estere and 14-year-old Mercy James joined her on stage along with a crowd of women at one point, to chant (disturbingly) 'I'm not your bitch!', after performing Nineties hit, Human Nature. Later, she performed Frozen while a video of her beautiful, and athletic, 23-year-old daughter dancing played in the background. Let's hope her medical woes have been laid to rest: she still has 14 gigs to get through in the capital. Somehow, I think she'll do it. The singer, 61, has banned the use of mobiles and smart watches at her 14-night London Palladium residency, part of the Madame X world tour. Instead concert-goers are forced to lock away their devices in special fabric cases as they enter. This means they can carry the phones but not use them until after the show when they swipe the case to deactivate the magnetic lock on their way out. During the tour, Madonna has been taking one Polaroid per concert, which she auctions to an audience member, with the money going to her charity, Raising Malawi. As well as her first London date, Madonna cancelled a show with just 45 minutes notice at the Coliseu Theatre in Lisbon, Portugal last week.   The musician, 61, announced the news via her Instagram page.  Informing fans the evening's show had been cancelled, she wrote: 'Thank you again Lisbon! Sorry I had to cancel tonight but I must listen to my body and rest!!' She jokingly added: 'That white Port got me through the rest of the show! See you on Tuesday fingers crossed @dinodsantiago #madamextheatre #lisboa #coliseu' An email sent at 19:45 on Sunday night informed the January 19 ticket holders that Madonna would not be appearing on stage at 20:30 as planned.  Madonna cited injury as the reason for needing to cancel the date at such short notice sharing a video of herself 'warming-up' for a show four days before.    New York City - September 15 and October 7, 2019 Los Angeles - November 12, 2019 Boston - November 30, December 1, and December 2, 2019 Miami Beach - December 22, 2019 Lisbon - January 19 and January 22, 2020 London - January 27, 2020   During Saturday night's show in Lisbon the singer downed white port on stage with musician Dino D'Santiago, stating that the drink, which was her 'first in a month' had 'got her through' the rest of the performance.  While she has not released details of her injury, the star reportedly told a San Francisco audience in November that she was suffering from a 'bad knee' due to a torn ligament.  The Madame X tour, which began in September 2019, originally had 93 dates - 56 in North America and 37 in Europe.   That number has since fallen to 85 after the star cancelled nine show dates; two in New York, one in Los Angeles, three in Boston, one in Miami Beach and now two dates in Lisbon.  Madonna is four shows into her European tour, with 32 more shows to go.  Fans paid hundreds of pounds to get in as Madonna belatedly played the first of her UK dates. But those planning to record their presence on their phones were in for a disappointment. The singer banned the use of mobiles and smart watches at her 14-night London Palladium residency, part of the Madame X world tour. Instead concert-goers were forced to lock away their devices in special fabric cases as they entered. She implemented the phone ban from the start of the tour in New York in September.  During the tour, Madonna has been taking one Polaroid per concert, which she auctions to an audience member, with the money going to her charity, Raising Malawi. Wednesday's show photo raised £1,500.  The singer is one of a number of artists moving towards phone-free gigs, with Alicia Keys and Guns N' Roses previously using Yondr, the US firm hired by Madonna to ensure mobiles are locked away. Kate Bush asked fans not to use their phones to record her comeback shows at Hammersmith Apollo in 2014. The reclusive singer said she wanted fans to 'share in the experience together'.  Tickets for some London dates were still on sale last night for up to £511.50. Resale websites were demanding more than £700. 
