{ By Ralph R. Ortega For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  22:26, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7922395/Arizona-Supreme-Court-rules-infertile-woman-impregnate-fertilized-embryos.html }
A woman has been barred from using her fertilized frozen embryos to have a baby over opposition from her ex-husband and under the terms of the contract they signed with a fertility clinic. The Arizona Supreme Court ruling on Thursday ends a case that drew support from social conservative groups for the woman, Ruby Torres, 39, who had her eggs fertilized prior to treatment for an aggressive cancer in 2014 that left her infertile.  Torres and her then-husband, John Terrell, split three years later.  Terrell did not want to have children together and asked the courts to order that the eggs be donated under the terms of the contract.   The case was featured in the episode, 'Whose Embroys?' in the Netflix documentary series, 'Follow this,' which focused on the complications arising from in-vitro fertilization and frozen embryos in the US.  Attorney Stanley Murray, who argued Torres' case, told AZCentral he 'of course' was 'not too happy' about the decision. 'I haven't had a chance to speak to my client yet, but I know how she probably feels after what she's been through,' he said. 'It's disappointing, because we had gotten the Court of Appeals on our side.' A trial court ruled that the contract left it up to the courts to determine the fate of the embryos and then sided with Terrell, saying his interest in not having children outweighed Torres' right to have a biological child. At the time of the trial court ruling, Torres lamented on the Netflix segment that 'there will be a child out there that is biologically mine and I just will never be able (her voice cracks) ... to see them or have any contact.'  However, she still decided to take her case to the state's Court of Appeals, which overturned that ruling last March.  The court agreed that the contract allowed courts to decide, but also saying that Torres' right to have a child prevailed over Terrell's right not to become a father. Both the trial court and appellate panel got it wrong, according to the Supreme Court.  The lower courts ruled that a contract clause allowed courts to determine whether to donate or implant the embryos. Terrell's attorney's had pointed to a contract provision that required the consent of the other person for implantation as controlling. The high court, sitting with only five of seven justices, unanimously agreed with Terrell that the phrase in question 'means that upon divorce or dissolution of the relationship, the parties chose to donate the embryos absent a contemporaneous agreement for use by one of them.'  They noted the trial court came to the right conclusion, the only one that the contract allowed if both parents could not agree. 'We are cognizant of the unavoidable emotional fall-out attendant to the disposition of the embryos here,' Justice Ann Scott Timmer wrote in the ruling. 'But the family court was required to enforce the parties´ chosen disposition of the embryos as set forth in the Agreement.' The eggs will now be donated under terms of the former couple's contract. Murray had argued that the contract was ambiguous and the lower courts agreed, stepping in to apply a balancing test. 'Everybody else had different interpretations of the contract, but both the trial court and the Court of Appeals were on the same page as far as the contract doesn't apply here, it doesn't cover this situation, so we have to apply the balancing of interests test,' the lawyer said. 'But the Supreme Court said, 'No, the contract does cover this'.' A 2018 Arizona law change in response to Torres' case allows a former spouse to use the embryos against their former partner's wishes, but relieves the ex-spouse of parental responsibilities. That would include child support.  The change is not retroactive and therefore does not apply to Torres' case. The Center for Arizona Policy, a social conservative group that lobbies for religious freedom and anti-abortion policies, had backed the change in law. 'I'm heartbroken for Ruby Torres today,' Cathi Herrod, the group's president, said in a statement. 'It's a sad day that she will not be able to bring her children to birth and raise them as she so desired.' 
