abortion
{ By Charlie Coë For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  06:09, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7919357/The-meanness-needs-stop-Gold-Coast-politician-Jann-Stuckey-quits-personal-attacks.html }
A long-serving MP has suddenly quit her state parliament months earlier than expected and said depression and bullying forced her to leave. Liberal member for Currumbin Jann Stuckey made the shock announcement to retire on Wednesday night after almost 16 years in parliament. While she did not detail the alleged bullying, opposition leader Deb Frecklington has hit out at what she claimed was a targeted attack by the Labor party against the Gold Coast politician. 'It was a relentless orchestrated campaign by the Labor Party… no-one should be treated that way,' she alleged according to ABC News. Ms Stuckey received threats from her own party to stop her pre-selection last year after she voted against her party to support abortion before the 22-week mark. But Ms Frecklington said she did not believe the departing member's choice of vote in the bill was the cause of the bullying. Queensland premier Annastacia Palaszczuk has also said in the wake of Ms Stuckey's announcement the 'meanness needs to stop'.  'I think in the world of Twitter and Facebook, the attacks do become more personal and I think it just needs to stop,' she said. 'We need to set the examples.'    Ms Stuckey said in her retirement announcement the past twelve months had been 'a real struggle'. 'I deeply resent insensitive reporting I am fed up or spitting the dummy - I am unwell and have been for some time,' she said. 'I have always empathised with people who suffer from depression ... I thought it would never happen to me but it got me and it's been overwhelming. 'The black cloud just swamped me over and over again when I least expected it. 'It is important to note no other workplace would put up with the level of bullying, personal attacks and insults that take place in politics. It's getting worse and it needs to change.'  The Gold Coast MP's resignation will take effect on February 1 and is expected to force a by-election in her seat of Currumbin. LNP leader Deb Frecklington praised Ms Stuckey's contribution to her electorate. 'It is courageous of Jann to reveal her struggle with mental illness and it will hopefully raise awareness of this serious issue,' Ms Frecklington said in a statement. Daily Mail Australia has contacted the Queensland Labor Party for comment.  For confidential support in Australia LIFELINE: 13 11 14 www.lifeline.org.au. Suicide Call Back Service: 1300 659 467   
