abortion
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  01:32, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7918859/Qld-elections-state-poll.html }
Queenslanders could face two by-elections before the state poll in October. Labor backbencher Jo-Ann Miller is reportedly considering running to become Ipswich mayor in March, which could leave the party vulnerable in that seat. She's held Bundamba since 2000, with a colourful career that includes being stripped of the police portfolio in 2015 and advocating for coal workers with black lung disease. But Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk hosed it down as media speculation, saying she hadn't spoken to Ms Miller about her plans. "I hope Jo-Ann will make up her mind very shortly" Ms Palaszczuk told reporters on Thursday. "I'd like her to remain but if she chooses to go that's her decision." Meanwhile, Gold Coast Liberal National Party MP Jann Stuckey has announced she will quit politics within days, citing a personal struggle with depression. "I am unable to give the electorate that I love so dearly the attention and energy that I have provided for the past 16 years," the Currumbin MP wrote in a statement. "The black cloud just swamped me over and over again when I least expected it. "It is important to note that no other workplace would put up with the level of bullying, personal attacks and insults that take place in politics. It's getting worse and it needs to change." Ms Palaszczuk acknowledged the significance of speaking out about mental wellbeing. "I do wish her all the very best," she said. "We're trying to teach respectful relationships in schools and I think that respectful relationships need to happen at all workplaces, including the Queensland parliament. "Perhaps the meanness needs to stop, and a bit of dignity and respect for everyone needs to take place." Deb Frecklington, leader of the LNP, said Ms Stuckey had been a tireless advocate for her community. Responding to questions about the MPs comments about bullying, Ms Frecklington said politics was a robust workplace. Ms Stuckey was one of three LNP members who voted against her colleagues in supporting the state government's bill to decriminalise abortion in a conscience vote last year. They were threatened with disendorsement if they supported the bill on the eve of their vote. Ms Frecklington said she did not believe Ms Stuckey had faced internal pressure, but that she had been targeted by Labor. Griffith University political analyst Paul Williams expects the LNP would hold the seat of Currumbin, and that Labor would also retain Bundamba if Ms Miller resigned. He added holding by-elections on the same day as the March local government poll would mean higher voter turnout and less costs. Lifeline 13 11 14 beyondblue 1300 22 4636 
