abortion
{ By Geoff Earle, Deputy U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:37, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7918717/Crazed-protester-shouts-Schumer-devil-Senate-impeachment-trial.html }
President Trump's Senate impeachment trial got another jolt of energy Wednesday evening when a protester was ejected after yelling out in the chamber – then ranted about Sen. Charles Schumer and the devil in a Senate corridor. The man was booted from the chamber at about 6:20 evening, shortly before senators were going to take a dinner break while hearing the case for impeachment by House managers.  After yelling what one source heard to be about Jesus Christ, the man was quickly removed by U.S. Capitol Police, who have been out in force for impeachment. Then, the man ranted in a corridor just outside the Senate chamber on the third floor of the Capitol. DailyMail.com was able to hear him yelling about Nancy Pelosi, abortion, and Schumer. Sources identified him as yelling out that 'Schumer is the devil,' although at one point he also seemed to yell that 'Schumer is not the devil.' The man began yelling while Democratic Rep. Hakeem Jeffries of New York was speaking about one of Trump's phone calls with the president of Ukraine. Chief Justice John Roberts slammed down his gavel and told the Sergeant at Arms to restore order in the gallery.  A sketch artist captured the dramatic moment.   Schumer is the Senate Minority Leader and has been the leading figure in seeking to marshall support for hearing from witnesses and getting documents during the trial, having battled without success Tuesday with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. A Senate aide identified the man as Rives Miller Grogan, who has been arrested at the Capitol during other high-profile events.' Grogan was arrested after climbing a tree and yelling during President Obama's second inauguration. According to a statement provided to DailyMail.com: 'This evening, the United States Capitol Police arrested one adult male when he unlawfully entered into the Senate Gallery. He was charged with D.C. Code §10-503.16, Unlawful Conduct. The investigation is continuing and additional charges may be forthcoming.' The incident 'scared the bejesus out of me' said Sen. John Kennedy of Louisiana. The incident comes amid a Capitol wrapped in security under an arrangement announced by McConnell's office for impeachment. Among noteworthy changes are tight restrictions on use of the Senate's second floor – and severe restrictions on press access. Authorities placed a magnetometer inside the Senate press gallery, although all members of the public are already screened when entering the Capitol. Reporters have been required to stand in pens to ask question of senators who may approach – but not roam freely to seek out comment.  Amid anticipated scrums, senators who represent millions of constituents were provided note cards by the Senate Sergeant at Arms to provide handy ways to ask people to get out of the way.  'Please move out of my way,' is one suggested phrase.  'You are preventing me from doing my job,' reads a more explanatory version. 'Please excuse me, I am trying to get to the Senate floor' is another suggested option for a lawmakers who wants to flaunt their influence.     The card was obtained by Reuters. 'Please excuse me, I need to get to a hearing/meeting,' reads a less truthful version, since there are no scheduled hearings during impeachment.  'Please do not touch me' is another suggestion.          
