abortion
{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:10, 22 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7917273/Sia-sports-sweats-loads-car-stuffed-animals-revealing-adopted-son.html }
A week after announcing she adopted a son in 2019, nine-time Grammy nominee Sia Furler was seen loading a car with toys, baby blankets, and other items in Los Angeles. A mint-green stuffed bunny was among the items the Australian 44-year-old was seen carrying in a colorful diaper bag. The camera-shy pop star also revealed that she 'decided to be single for the rest' of her life while discussing her baby news and Diplo for his GQ profile.   On Wednesday, Sia dressed way down in a black sweatshirt and sweatpants and matching sneakers to run errands. The Kardashian family friend went make-up free and wore her blonde locks down as she hauled a Petco shopping bag and a brown paper bag. It's the first child for abortion rights activist, who filed for divorce from golf documentarian Erik Anders Lang in 2016 after two years of marriage. Last month, Oscar nominee Kate Hudson announced that Sia's directorial debut Music 'should be out in 2020.'   The 40-year-old daughter of Goldie Hawn famously shaved her head in 2017 to star as a sober drug dealer taking care of her autistic sister (Maddie Ziegler). 'It’s taken a while, in a good way,' Kate told Women's Wear Daily. 'Singing was a dream for me. It was honestly one of the greatest experiences. I look forward to people being able to get to see the movie. I think it's going to be a special one.' The Everyday is Christmas crooner - who thought it'd released last October - previously told Rolling Stone in 2018 that her movie 'might be good' but 'not exceptional.'    Sia - who helmed 11 of her own music videos - produced the film and penned the screenplay for Music, which also features Hector Elizondo, Leslie Odom Jr., and Tig Notaro. On Friday, the two-time Golden Globe nominee dropped a new song Original for the soundtrack of Stephen Gaghan's Dolittle starring Robert Downey Jr. The $175M-budget remake of Richard Fleischer's 1967 Doctor Dolittle opened with a disappointing $57.3M at the box office,and it scored a dismal 18% Rotten Tomatoes rating.   
