abortion
{ By Carly Stern For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:17, 22 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7917175/Sex-pest-Josh-Duggar-wife-Anna-double-date-parents.html }
The Duggar family is all about forgiveness when it comes to eldest son and sex pest Josh Duggar, who molested four of his younger siblings as a teenager — but parents Jim Bob and Michelle don't seem to have the same open-arms policy when it comes to issues with one of Josh's victims. Today, 31-year-old Josh's wife Anna, also 31, shared a photo of the couple alongside his parents Jim Bob and Michelle, proclaiming the foursome had just enjoyed a double date. The happy family outing comes just three weeks after 28-year-old Jill Duggar's husband Derick Dillard, 30, told Instagram followers that they aren't even allowed at her family's house without express permission from Jim Bob. Anna shared the photo in the wee hours of Wednesday morning, possibly while up for a late-night feeding with her newborn daughter Maryella. She and Josh have six children in all, with the youngest born this past November. Int he photo, Anna smiles wide while holding Maryella, with a pleased-looking Josh posing behind her. Josh's dad Jim Bob and mother Michelle smile next to them.  'We enjoyed a double date with Pops & Lolli this evening!' Anna wrote, referring to the grandparent nicknames that Jim Bob and Michelle only recently adopted. 'It means the world to have parents that unconditionally love us and who are there to encourage us along life’s way,' she went on. 'The older I get, the more I realize just how much I value and lean on the advice from our parents and the Godly men & women who are a couple decades ahead of us in life. 'Thanks Sweetie, Pops & Lolli for such a fun evening — it was great to chat, laugh and have a great night out together!' While the double date may have been a special outing, Josh and Anna spend plenty of time with his parents, and are even believed to live on the land that Jim Bob owns. They're often spotted in family photos taken at the house or during various outings, and accompanied several of the other Duggars to an anti-abortion protest this weekend. In fact, there seem to be no qualms or reservations about including Josh in the mix, despite his troubled past. When Josh was a teenager, he admitted to touching the chest area and genitals of four of his younger sisters, as well as a family friend, and was subsequently sent away from counseling — though the seedy family history was buried until 2015, when InTouch unearthed an old police report.  Within months of the news coming to light — and sisters Jessa and Jill coming forward as two of his victims — it was discovered that Josh had an account on the adultery website Ashley Madison. He went on to admit that he had been unfaithful and also copped to a porn addiction. But the family frequent preaches forgiveness. His wife Anna, in particular, has spoken a bit about sticking by his side.  'Redemption is a beautiful thing!' she told a fan on Instagram who commented on Josh's presence in photos.  On his birthday last year, Anna also wrote an effusive Instagram post singing his praises, saying: 'Your gratitude for redemption through JESUS and striving to please HIM above all!'  But while Josh has clearly elicited the forgiveness of his wife and parents, his sister Jill seems to be on rockier ground with Jim Bob and Michelle.  In December, her husband Derick went scorched earth on Instagram offering up some new revelations about the family dynamic and the rumored rift.   Replying to comments on a Christmas post, Derick made accusations against both Jim Bob and TLC, claiming that Jim Bob restricts their time with the rest of the family and that the Counting On network pressured Jill, an abuse victim, to continue filming when she tried to quit. Nearly all of the Duggars were at Jim Bob and Michelle's house for Christmas, but Jill and Derick, who live nearby, spent the day at home with friends.  When a fan asked whether they ever spend time with Jill's family, Derick dropped a bombshell. 'Yes, but it's just harder now because we're not allowed at the house when JB isn't there,' he said. 'Jill even had to ask JB permission to go over to the house to help her sister when she was in labor because her sister wanted her help, but Jill couldn't provide the assistance until we got it cleared with JB.' Derick was referring to Jill's sister Jessa, who gave birth to daughter Ivy Jane in May. Jill, a midwife, helped with the delivery — though it seems her involvement didn't come as smoothly as it seemed on camera. Though Jill did appear on screen in Jessa's birth episode, she and Derick are otherwise absent from Counting On.  'We're not on 19 Kids and Counting anymore,' he said. 'We've only made guest appearances over the years for wedding, birth, etc.,' he added. 'We've never had any contact with TLC hence not knowing there was a contract. Nobody from TLC has even mentioned to us what they would prefer we say or not say.' But leaving the show, he said, wasn't easy.  'We were made to believe we didn't have a choice and that we would be sued if we refused [to film],' he said. 'However, once we became more enlightened, we realized that we could easily defend ourselves against a lawsuit from the family/TLC. 'We were pressured to think that we were required to and that we would get sued if we didn't.  'It's not going to look good for TLC when it's exposed that they pressured an abuse victim to continue filming when we tried to quit, just so they could continue with Jill & Jessa: Counting On after 19K&C.' In 2015, Jill famously came out as one of Josh's molestation victims. She and Jessa both submitted to an interview with Megyn Kelly on Fox News in which they defended their big brother.  But Derick's comments shed new light on that interview, indicating that Jill may not have wanted to participate but felt powerless to opt out.  Derick also doubled down on his previous claim that only Jim Bob ever had a contract with TLC — and only he received any payment. 'All of the shows have been under his contract, and he is the only one with a contract,' he said. He also speculated that Jill's siblings may continue to film because they are being 'pressured into submission with threats of lawsuits' or else they are 'too deep into it/dependent.' Derick had previously said on Twitter that TLC wouldn't release them from a 'bogus contract,' though in his latest comments, he didn't shed more light on that claim.  DailyMail.com has reached out to TLC for comment.  There have been rumors and speculation for some time that Jill and Derick aren't getting along well with her family. Some fans have wondered whether it's because Jill has been rebelling against some of her parents' teachings: In the past few years, the mother-of-two has gotten a nose ring, begun wearing pants and shorts, and hinted that she may be using birth control to limit her pregnancies. She has also spoken openly about sex in a way that the rest of her family hasn't, and recently cut her hair quite short by Duggar standards.  But Derick's Instagram commenting spree has indicated there may be much more than meets the eye when it comes to the division in the family — and he hinted that he has more to say, and may even write a tell-all book in the future. When one fan suggested he write a book, he replied: 'I am working on it, but it takes time!'  Meanwhile, the other Duggars were all at Jim Bob and Michelle's house for Christmas last week, as seen in dozens of photos posted on Instagram. The images show Michelle and Jim Bob and their youngest children who still live at home, John David and his then-pregnant wife Abbie, Jessa and her husband Ben with their three kids, Joy Anna and Austin with their son, and Joe and Kendra with their two kids, and Josiah and Lauren with their daughter. Among the missing were Josh and Anna and their six kids, who spent Christmas with her family in Florida, and Jinger and Jeremy and their daughter, who live in Los Angeles and had a visit from his parents. 
