abortion
{ By Brian Marks For Dailymail.com   Published:  08:11, 21 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7910585/Kaitlyn-Bristowe-clarifies-bitter-feelings-Bachelor-werent-ex-Shawn-Booth.html }
She spoke out about her 'bitter feelings' toward one person in Bachelor nation earlier this month. Kaitlyn Bristowe cleared up her comments on Friday at the iHeartRadio Podcast Awards after fans thought she was referring to her ex-boyfriend Shawn Booth. The 34-year-old Bachelorette star clarified that she wasn't talking about him, though she declined to name the source of her ire, according to Us Weekly. Kaitlyn originally posted on January 6 to coincide with the season 24 premiere of The Bachelor, which aired the same night. She posted a publicity still of herself from 2015's season 19 and wished good luck to this season's bachelor Peter Weber. But the reality star also opened up about her negative feelings toward the series. 'I always question watching every season due to a little PTSD, overwhelming emotions, and knowing a little too much,' she wrote, though she ultimately tuned in because 'I just always want to support the people going through this “journey." 'So while I have bitter feelings towards one person (not a contestant), out of hundreds, I will choose to love the hundreds of others who changed my life. I will try to remember the positive experiences,' she added. On Friday, Kaitlyn clarified that she wouldn't throw shade on her ex Shawn like that. 'Let’s be honest, everyone is going to immediately think, "Oh, she’s talking about her ex," but no. I could be petty, but not that petty,' she said.  'I would just say it if that’s who I was talking about. It’s someone who I would just rather not say the name anymore and just move forward, because there’s so many people I love in that franchise.' The reality star and podcaster subsequently moved on from Shawn and struck up a relationship with former Bachelorette contestant Jason Tartick last year.  Kaitlyn's original caption made it clear the person wasn't a contestant, so her former co-stars can breathe a sigh of relief, though the aside seems to point to her beef with the show's creator, Mike Fleiss. During an October appearance on the Talkhouse podcast, Kaitlyn blamed the TV producer for blocking her from ever appearing on Dancing With The Stars. 'They won’t let me [go on the show], ever,' she dished.  'I’ll tell you exactly why I can’t go on Dancing with the Stars. Anybody that listens to this podcast knows why I cannot go on Dancing with the Stars. And it’s because, and I will say this with a mic in my hand and a smile on face, that Mike Fleiss is a piece of s***. He is the creator of The Bachelor, and he hates women.' She previously spoke out on the situation after Bachelor Nick Viall appeared on the 24th season of the show in 2017. After a fan asked why the Bachelors appeared on the show, but not the Bachelorettes, she replied: 'Actually I was offered it, had the contract & Mike Fliess told me I wasn't allowed. He said he didnt want people wanting fame after his show.' Fleiss disputed her claims at the time, replying: '@kaitlynbristowe has my total support if she wants to appear on DWTS!!! #TheBachelor.' 'Thanks I'll get right on that opportunity 2 yrs ago. I wonder what changed your mind?' she replied. Kaitlyn had previously been a professional dancer, so she would have been a logical fit on the dancing competition. Two Bachelorettes have appeared on DWTS: the original Bachelorette Trista Sutter and last year's star Hannah Brown, though Kaitlyn contended that Hannah was only allowed on the show because she had already made the issue public. In July, Fleiss' estranged wife Laura Kaeppeler accused him of assaulting her while she was pregnant after she refused to get an abortion. She made an official complaint to law enforcement, in which she submitted photos of injuries as well as footage of an alleged altercation from June 6 at their vacation home in Hawaii. Fleiss denied her allegation and requested primary custody of their son Ben, four. The couple finalized their divorce at the end of July, with Laura receiving a $10 million settlement and both parties sharing custody. 
