{ By Glen Owen and James Heale For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  22:20, 18 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7903069/Lisa-Nandy-poses-NAKED-bed-racy-photostrip-story-offering-sex-advice-students.html }
Lisa Nandy, the 'dark horse' Labour leadership contender, once offered sex advice to students – and starred in a photo casebook showing her naked in bed with another woman. Ms Nandy – whose prospects have surged since her composed performance during last week's BBC interview with Andrew Neil – appeared in a comic book-style photostrip recording her quest to find a boyfriend in Newcastle University's Courier student newspaper. The Wigan MP's racy past came to light as fellow leadership candidate Jess Phillips, 38, was revealed as a co-author of a 'hot or not' column in her Leeds student newspaper in which she praised pop star Kylie Minogue's bottom and complained that energy drinks ruined the taste of vodka. Ms Nandy, 40, was a politics undergraduate at Newcastle two decades ago. Described in her column's masthead as an agony aunt 'who likes a bit of hot mail' she is shown in the photostrip saying: 'I'll never find a man!' When a friend suggests a suitable partner, Ms Nandy is pictured with the prospective date with her hands pressed to her head in exasperation. A thought bubble reads: 'Oh, my God! I'm not f***ing s****ing THAT!' Later, as she is chatted up by another student who offers her a drink, Ms Nandy says: 'I'd love a stiff one! Actually, d'ya wanna come back to my place?' After apparently having sex with him, the MP is pictured discussing the incident with a friend. Using her fingers to illustrate her point, she complains: 'His w***y was the smallest I've ever seen! I'm going back on the pull.' Later, after the intervention of a 'Fairy Godfather', Ms Nandy is pictured naked with her arms wrapped around a blonde woman, saying: 'Ooh, I thought you only had your ears pierced!!!' Next to the photostrip she writes: In another column she writes: 'As I've said many times over the course of this year, there are just no fit men at this university … There's a lot of diversity in a university – virgins, slimy b******s who offer to buy you a drink but have no intention of doing any such thing, geeks, the lot.  'The trick is how to spot them. You can usually identify a virgin from a thousand paces, cos they'll be trendy dressers and well into dance music. The only solution is to quit the manhunt and wait till after uni when you're back amongst normal people.' In another photo casebook, a male student is pictured smoking a spliff to 'calm his essay crisis', then gets a first for his work. Ms Nandy writes: 'Before the anti-drugs lobby gets straight on my case, I am not about to advocate getting caned before a deadline.' In another column, a third-year student asks how to chat up first-year students. Ms Nandy replies: 'You could try pulling in the Union when Red Bull and vodka is on special – it works for me.' Ms Phillips, who last week faced questions about her postgraduate qualifications, was joint author of a Leeds Student column rating various trends and personalities. Written under her maiden name of Jessica Trainor, one column says of Ms Minogue's bottom: 'Hot or not depending which sex you are. Great for you lads, bad for us girls – we're praying it's implants or we may lose the will to live.'  In another entry the Birmingham Yardley MP writes of energy drink Red Bull: 'Necking straight vodka by the can load would be better. It doesn't so much 'give you wings' but instead insomnia and insanity. You sooo want to forget the evening of drunken disaster but instead you are forced to relive it in painful solitude in place of sleep.' Ms Nandy and Ms Phillips are two of the five leadership contenders alongside Emily Thornberry, 59, Sir Keir Starmer, 57, and Rebecca Long Bailey, 40, whose student years appear to have been far less racy.  Ms Thornberry featured prominently in Kent University's InCant newspaper as a staunch member of the Labour club during the early 1980s. The Shadow Foreign Secretary is described as 'one of the most popular politicians on campus' but quit her role with the students' union, citing academic pressure and saying: 'I could continue to be vice-president if I lied my way through it, but I can't.' Sir Keir, meanwhile, read law at Leeds University where his only reference in Leeds Student was a personal advert hailing him as 'Keir Starmer – king of middle class radicals.' Rebecca Long-Bailey's leadership bid is thrown into fresh turmoil as she clashes with aide over her 'regressive' abortion views Labour leadership contender Rebecca Long Bailey has defended her decision to speak out on abortion as she won the surprise backing of a top Tory for her stand. In a defiant riposte, she hinted that her concerns had been 'misrepresented' in a bid to damage her bid to succeed Jeremy Corbyn. There were also claims from fellow Catholic Labour MPs that she was the victim of attempts to use her faith to 'smear her'. But it emerged that one of her own campaign team had suggested that people with 'regressive' views on abortion should not be Prime Minister. Ms Long Bailey, the so-called 'Corbyn continuity' candidate, found herself at the centre of a bitter Labour row last week after appearing to back stricter abortion laws. Responding to a questionnaire from local Catholic churches during the General Election campaign, she said that she did 'not agree' with current rules allowing women to terminate their child on disability grounds after 24 weeks. She said she backed the Disability Rights Commission's view that 'the context in which parents choose whether to have a child should be one in which disability and non-disability are valued equally'. The Salford MP has now defended her remarks and hinted at the 'Machiavellian' way the story emerged. In an apparent dig at the Red Roar website which broke the story, she said: 'It's been quite suspicious. 'There have been certain news sources that have perpetrated this misrepresentation over the last 24 hours.' Ms Long Bailey told Channel 4 News she was 'by no means suggesting we need to restrict our abortion laws further', but had wished to raise concerns 'that the disabled community would feel'. Last week, her campaign team insisted her abortion stance was her personal view, not a policy position, saying she 'unequivocally supports a woman's right to choose'. But last night, it emerged that her own recently hired campaign communications chief – ex-Corbyn aide Matt Zarb-Cousin – had voiced doubt about people with similar views on abortion holding high office.  Tweeting last year about former Tory Minister and abortion critic David Lidington, who also voted against civil partnerships, Mr Zarb-Cousin wrote: 'Personally, I wouldn't be too comfortable with someone possessing such regressive views on LGBT rights and abortion occupying Number 10 but each to their own.' Last night, Labour insiders said the remark was a further 'body blow' to Ms Long Bailey after a new opinion poll showed her trailing a long way behind leadership favourite Sir Keir Starmer. However, sources close to Mr Zarb-Cousin hit back last night, saying Ms Long Bailey's views on abortion were 'in no way comparable' to Mr Lidington's who voted for tighter time limits on abortion. One friend said: 'The difference between David Lidington and Rebecca is she never voted to restrict the right to abortion and has only voted to extend it in the case of Northern Ireland.' Last night, Mr Lidington – who said that when he was an MP he had generally voted on the 'pro-life ticket on abortion' – sprang to Ms Long Bailey's defence. He said: 'She should be entitled to whatever views she has on abortion and to vote accordingly, and it should be treated with respect as a matter of conscience.' Mr Lidington also contrasted the 'thought police' attitude of some in the Labour Party with the Tories who always treated it as a matter of individual conscience. Separately, two Catholic Labour MPs – Mike Kane and Conor McGinn – claimed the reaction to Ms Long Bailey's remarks had produced 'age-old, anti- Catholic bigotry'. In an article for PoliticsHome, they said neither of them had nominated her for the leadership 'but we will not stand idle while her faith is being used to smear her or tolerate blatant sectarianism and anti-Catholic tropes'. Emily Thornberry faces calls to 'sack' aide Helen Goodman in her Labour leadership bid amid allegations of 'bullying' Emily Thornberry last night faced calls to 'sack' a key aide in her Labour leadership bid over allegations of bullying. Helen Goodman is accused of being 'beyond rude' to Commons staff advising her on how to wind up her constituency office after she lost her Bishop Auckland seat at the Election, according to sources. In an extraordinary sanction, Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle has now refused her one of the special passes that allow former MPs 'unescorted' access to the Palace of Westminster. It is believed Miss Goodman, campaign treasurer for Miss Thornberry, rowed with Commons officials over access to her emails. A source said Sir Lindsay had banned her for a year and will only consider her for a pass if she undergoes a Commons anti-bullying courses. Last night, Shadow Foreign Secretary Miss Thornberry made clear she would ignore calls to 'sack' the ex-MP. A spokesman said: 'Emily knows Helen is not a bully and that this was a heat of the moment incident in what by any standards is a highly emotional day when you leave Parliament after so many years of service.' The spokesman added that neither Miss Thornberry or Miss Goodman were aware of the allegation when she was recruited. Miss Goodman could not be reached for comment. ANDREW ROBERTS: Having lost its fourth General Election in a row, there is only one thing the Labour party can do now - abolish itself OK, let's make a pact,' says Homer to his family as they enter a theme park in the long-running TV show The Simpsons. 'This is gonna be the best vacation ever, or we'll all agree to disband and join other families.' Having now lost its fourth General Election in a row – and lost it comprehensively – the Labour Party ought to consider Homer Simpson's threat and abolish itself. If individual members want to go off and join other parties or even set up new ones, that would be fine, although probably just a further waste of time and effort. It is futile to keep alive an institution that had already fulfilled its historic function by the start of the last decade, a party that will not form a majority government again, and even if it could, ought not to. Founded in 1900, Labour lived up to its name for the first 110 years of its existence, representing the working men and women of Britain in Parliament and government. In its recent conscious decision to try to become a middle-class party, however, it severed its roots with the people who had put it in power three times under Tony Blair. No one born in the last 100 years aside from Blair has led Labour to victory in a General Election. The reason Blair was so successful was because he publicly abjured socialism by abolishing Clause Four of the Labour Party's constitution, which committed it to 'common ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange'. Socialism as a creed is today followed by fewer than 15 per cent of the population. If, as seems likely, the socialists win the present civil war in the Labour Party by defeating the social democrats, the party will simply repeat its 2019 electoral debacle. Far better to wind it up. For all the while, the demographics are working against them. There were nine million trade unionists in 1969 – today there are 6.23 million. The share of the vote won by Labour in the first five Elections from 1945 was 47.8 per cent, 46.1 per cent, 48.8 per cent, 46.4 per cent and 43.8 per cent. Yet in the last five Elections it has polled 35.2 per cent, 35.2 per cent, 29.0 per cent, 30.4 per cent and 32.2 per cent. That is structural – it will not change any time soon. Morgan Phillips, a general secretary of the Labour Party in the 1950s, used to say that the party owed more to Methodism than to Marx. Today, however, the exact opposite is true. And for the hardline Momentum Left to try to cohabit with the Blairite social democrats any longer is a cruelty to them both. Whereas there was a genuine sense of workers' solidarity when Britain had great industries based on shipbuilding, steel-making, coal-mining and so on, that is simply not the case when so many people make their livings behind word processors. Hardened Leftist Rebecca Long Bailey is one of the two front-runners to lead a party that has an estimated 300,000 socialists and Momentum members on its books. But what happens then? Ms Long Bailey apparently wished to appoint as her campaign manager Alex Halligan, a Stalinist who has been photographed at the Durham Miners' Gala with a badge depicting the assassination of Leon Trotsky by Stalinist agent Ramon Mercader in Mexico in August 1940. The badge also sports the words 'Goodnight Trotskyite', a triumphalist rhyme that will make any Stalinist smile and any democrat shudder. Does Ms Long Bailey think the British people aren't watching this kind of behaviour with the same bemused shock as when they heard that Jeremy Corbyn refused to sing the National Anthem with the Queen present at a Battle of Britain commemoration service? Joseph Stalin killed six million people and imposed totalitarian terror on hundreds of millions more. Anyone who supports Stalin's policies should be considered way, way beyond the pale of civilised discourse and politics in this country, or indeed in any democracy. The Labour Party has done plenty of great things for Britain in its history. It supported Churchill patriotically in the Second World War, created the National Health Service, took us into Nato, inaugurated the Open University, brought down John Major and kept us out of the euro. Yet even the most recent of these achievements was nearly two decades ago. Terms such as 'bourgeoisie' and 'proletariat' have never meant much to the British people, who are resolutely sensible and practical when it comes to their politics. All surveys demonstrate that class consciousness is dropping year by year in Britain, which is another problem for a party that relies so heavily on class envy and resentment. If you want to see a genuinely classless political party, look at the new Tory MPs from the so-called 'Red Wall' seats of the North East and Midlands. Labour can now only pray that Brexit turns out to be a disaster for Britain. It's their last throw of the dice. But even that desperate hope will be swiftly recognised as foully unpatriotic by an electorate that hopes to muddle through Brexit at the worst, and, at best, to thrive with its new-found freedoms. So the answer seems obvious for members of the Labour Party: disband and set up two new organisations – a Marxist Momentum party and a Social Democratic Party. Or join the Lib Dems or the Greens. Whoever becomes the next Labour leader is going to feel that politics is very much like banging his or her head against a brick wall. Far better to call time and allow the Labour Party to join the Whig Party, Country Party, Liberal Unionists and Empire Loyalists in the annals of British history, political parties which had their time in the sun, but disappeared once their work was done. 
