abortion
{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com In Salt Lake City, Utah   Published:  16:44, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8025453/Mike-Bloomberg-JOKES-abysmal-debate-performance.html }
Mike Bloomberg got right back on the campaign trail Thursday morning, holding a rally where he joked about his abysmal Democratic debate performance.   'So how was your night last night?' he asked a crowd of supporters in Salt Lake City, Utah, alluding to the throttling he took by his 2020 rivals, starting off with a gutting courtesy of Sen. Elizabeth Warren. 'Look the real winner of the debate last night was Donald Trump,' Bloomberg said.  He repeated his concerns that the Democratic Party was on the cusp of nominating someone un-electable - mentioning Bernie Sanders by name.  'It will be a fatal error,' Bloomberg warned. 'We need Democrats and independents and Republicans to win.'  'That was the coalition that propelled Democrats to success in the midterms – and it’s the coalition we will need to win in November,' Bloomberg added.  That's why, he explained, he was campaigning in Utah.  While the historically red state plays into his strategy of skipping the first four states that hold contests - Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina - and focusing on the 14 'Super Tuesday' states instead, Bloomberg said he believed Utah could be won by the right Democrat in November as well.   'No state is too red for the Democratic Party,' he argued. 'And in November we're going to prove that a Democratic candidate for president can win here state-wide,' he added, using Democratic Rep. Ben McAdams - who supports Bloomberg - as an example.  McAdams took out Republican Rep. Mia Love during the 2018 midterm election, helping Democrats win back the House.   The billionaire candidate also pointed a finger at Republican Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah, who bucked the GOP to vote in favor of one of the articles of impeachment against President Trump.   Bloomberg spoke for just 15 minutes and then left the stage, not doing the gripping and grinning and selfie taking on the rope line like some of his Democratic rivals, including Warren and former Vice President Joe Biden.  The crowd count was more than 600, according to a campaign spokesperson.   He was briefly interrupted by a heckler who was shouting about abortion and the conspiracy theory peddling website, Infowars.com.  Afterward, Bloomberg was off to California, though didn't plan to hold any public events, before returning to New York City, where he continues to live.   The Salt Lake event marked the first time Bloomberg spoke post-debate.  He had skipped the spin room Wedneday night, but his team spun his performance as a win, pointing to the moment that he called out 'socialist' Sanders for owning three homes.  'You know you are a winner when you are drawing attacks from all the candidates. Everyone came to destroy Mike tonight. It didn’t happen,' Bloomberg's campaign manager Kevin Sheekey said in a statement after the debate.  'He was just warming up tonight,' Sheekey added.  Before his Salt Lake City appearance, the ex-mayor's campaign rolled out three fresh endorsements: Democratic Reps. Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, Nita Lowey of New York and Pete Aguilar of California.  That trio of endorsements was followed by one from the top Democrat in the South Carolina state House, Minority Leader Todd Rutherford.  All through Thursday morning, Bloomberg also kept his tweets going.  One showed a clip of Bloomberg at the debate asking the other Democrats, 'I'm the only one I think that's ever started a business?'  'Anyone?' the tweet asked, showing video of the other candidates being unable to muster a repsonse.   Bloomberg also swatted back at Trump who had corrected the spelling of the Washington Post's Jennifer Rubin - who had spelled his name 'Bloombefg' - saying she 'must learn how to spell the name Bloomberg before it is too late & he is gone!'  'You can tweet what you want now. Just you wait until Novembef,' Bloomberg joked.      His dry humor didn't translate on the debate stage, where he was left stammering early on by Warren, who attacked him right out of the gate.  'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians,' Warren said. 'And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg.'  She also went after him for refusing to let women he worked for out of workplace non-disclosure agreements.  'None of them accuse me of doing anything other than maybe they didn't like a joke I told,' Bloomberg said. The audience gasped.  Team Trump had a field day with the drama, with the president's campaign press secretary announcing Wednesday night, 'The Democrat Party is in the midst of a full-scale meltdown.'   
