abortion
{ By Jack Elsom For Mailonline   Published:  12:26, 18 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7902001/Dont-call-cult-Hardcore-Corbynista-Rebecca-Long-Bailey-calls-unity-members.html }
Labour leadership contenders have clashed over the way the party has dealt with anti-Semitism as their first hustings kicked off today. Backbencher Jess Phillips and shadow foreign secretary Emily Thornberry appeared to spar during the event as part of the race to replace Jeremy Corbyn. Ms Phillips, the MP for Birmingham Yardley, took a swipe at some her fellow contenders for 'keeping quiet' over anti-Semitism in the party. It came as contender Rebecca Long-Bailey scolded members who brand Corbynism a 'cult'. Ms Phillips said: 'The Labour Party needs a leader who has spoken out against anti-Semitism, and other forms of harassment in fact. 'When others were keeping quiet and somebody who was in the room, struggling for an independent system - lots and lots of meetings - I have to say I don't remember some of the people here being in that particular room or being in those particular fights.' Ms Phillips said the Labour Party's handling of anti-Semitism had meant it had lost the 'moral high ground' to fight racism. She added: 'Jewish people were scared of Labour winning the election. That's deeply serious. 'The Labour Party has now lost the credibility to handle its own complaints system. 'We have lost the moral high ground to fight racism in this country because of the way we have handled anti-Semitism.' In a direct response to Ms Phillips, Ms Thornberry insisted that she had always been firm in standing-up against racism. She said that the Labour Party should kick out anti-Semites in the same way 'Oswald Mosley was kicked out of Liverpool'. Ms Thornberry said: 'I tell you what Jess (Phillips), I have always been clear about it and I always will because it's unacceptable, it undermines us as a party and undermines our soul. Duncan Hannant, a member from Rochdale, said: 'I thought they all performed admirably. I do have concerns about Emily Thornberry and how she may be seen in the north.  'I've seen her at the dispatch box, she's very good but in terms of going down with northern men or Workington man, I'm not so sure. 'I think we need someone from the north and Nandy is I think the best option at this stage.' Keith Hebron, from Bootle, Liverpool, said: 'I think probably the weakest was Jess.  'The person who spoke most about socialism and community was Long-Bailey. I will be supporting her. I think the issue on abortion may be an issue for her in the Labour Party.' Danuta Brooke, from Sheffield, said: 'I thought they were all good candidates capable of leading the Labour Party. For me it is who would make the best opposition leader and for me, Keir Starmer and Emily Thornberry would be best for that.' A man from Riverside Labour Party in Liverpool, who did not want to give his name, said: 'My personal view is the best person is Long-Bailey. I think she performed better than I thought she would, maybe she's had a negative press recently, so I was pleasantly surprised.' 'What we should be doing is kicking out these anti-Semites in the same way Oswald Mosley was kicked out of Liverpool in 1937.' All five candidates for the top job issued pleas for unity at the start of the event after last month's humiliation at the polls. Ms Thornberry suggested all the candidates were seeking 'the worst job in the world'. She said: 'Being leader of the Labour Party in opposition is, quite frankly, the worst job in the world. 'That's what we are applying for. 'In the end we have to wade through an awful lot of sh**.' Shadow business secretary Long-Bailey told the audience divided parties do not win elections.  Shadow Brexit secretary and early front-runner in the campaign, Sir Keir Starmer, said there had been 'too much division' in the party, adding: 'We are unstoppable when we are united.' Lisa Nandy said the Conservatives were not really interested in the former Labour seats they had won in Northern England and Wales in the general election. She said: 'The Tories are talking about investing in the so-called 'red wall' seats. 'But, what they don't understand is that this (vote) was a clamour for power, agency, and control, and they will never give it to people. 'Labour must.' Some 500 Labour members were at the event and most of those approached afterwards said there was no 'knock-out' blow by any of the candidates. 
