{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  20:52, 17 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7900579/Rebecca-Long-Bailey-vows-bring-democracy-economy-party-leader.html }
Rebecca Long-Bailey revealed her radical plan to 'bring democracy to the economy' last night as a poll suggested she will lose to Keir Starmer in the final round of Labour leadership voting.    Speaking at her campaign launch in Manchester, Ms Long-Bailey pledged to abolish the House of Lords, end the 'gentleman's club' of politics, devolve power to the regions and introduce a 'Green New Deal' to unite party heartlands. The leadership hopeful - described as a 'continuity' candidate to Jeremy Corbyn - emphasised that it was 'not enough to expect democracy in our politics - we need democracy in our economy too' in an apparent doubling down on the left-wing policies of the most recent Labour leader. Ms Long-Bailey, MP for Salford and Eccles and key Corbyn ally in the last election, used her campaign speech to admit 'many didn't trust [Labour in 2019], whether it was Brexit, whether it was tackling antisemitism - they didn't believe in us enough'. She added: 'We've got a lot of work to do to rebuild trust with the British public because it's no good promising the world if people don't trust you with the basics.'   The speech came after the publication of a YouGov poll which showed the battle is increasingly a two horse race between Sir Keir and Ms Long-Bailey, suggesting the former is on course to win in the final round of voting by 63 per cent to 37 per cent.  That is an increase for Sir Keir on the company's poll last month which put him on 61 per cent and Ms Long-Bailey on 39 per cent. The recent poll numbers are likely to cause alarm in Ms Long-Bailey's team as she appears to be losing ground to her fellow front runner. All the Labour leadership candidates are taking part in the first hustings event in Liverpool on Saturday.  Ms Long-Bailey, 40, is the hard-Left daughter of a Salford docker, groomed to take the helm of the Corbynite project by self-declared Marxist John McDonnell. She grew up in Old Trafford, Manchester, where she was exposed to left-wing politics from a young age. Her father Jimmy worked as a docker at Salford Quays and trade union representative at Shell at a time when workers' collectives wielded enormous power and threats of staff walkouts struck fear into ministers. On graduating from a Catholic high school, she worked in a pawn shop - an eye-opening experience which she says taught her 'more about the struggles of life than any degree or qualification ever could'. After holding down other jobs such as a call-centre operator, a furniture factory worker and a postwoman, she eventually studied to become a solicitor. Ms Long-Bailey, who is said to be favoured by the current leadership and backed by campaign group Momentum, took to the stage for her campaign launch at the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester last night with some of the 300 or so supporters at the event breaking into a chant of 'Oh Jeremy Corbyn'. Ms Long-Bailey told them: 'Hey guys, were going to have to think of a new song you know. No pressure.' She was asked why Labour had failed to win voters, returning their worst electoral result since 1935. Ms Long-Bailey said: 'I think for me we had some fantastic policies, I know because I helped write some of them, and really the message didn't resonate with our voters. 'And what we should have been talking about is aspiration. 'Because everything we are trying to build and I am going to try to build as leader of the Labour Party is about realising the potential, truly realising that quality of life increase, whether you are a business, whether you are an industry or an individual, our role as a party is to improve your living standards and the wealth you can accumulate as communities. 'And we didn't say that. We didn't match that with a message of aspiration. 'We want an economy where everyone does well.' She was introduced at the event by newly elected Coventry MP Zarah Sultana, who has apologised about alleged anti-Semitic and anti-Israel comments, attributed to her before she entered Parliament - reportedly saying she would 'celebrate' the deaths of Tony Blair and Benjamin Nentanayu, and told someone who was pro-Israel to 'jump off a cliff'.  At her campaign launch last night Ms Long-Bailey told party faithful she would replace 'the only unelected second chamber in the whole of Europe' with an elected senate and devolve power from Westminster to a regional or local level.  The leadership contender said Labour 'needs to look like a government in waiting - but we can't win by throwing away the very things that give power of purpose'.  Sir Keir Starmer vowed to unite his party and refused to say whether he is politically closer to Tony Blair or Jeremy Corbyn.   The Labour leadership frontrunner, viewed as a moderate candidate in the race to replace Mr Corbyn, said Labour must learn lessons from its last four general election defeats and not just 2019. But he would not be drawn on where he falls on the Labour political spectrum as he insisted he does not 'need somebody else's name or badge' to succeed.  Meanwhile, he said that some of his friends are Tories and that he judges people 'by what they say and who they are' rather than by their political affiliation. He also vowed to rid Labour of its various warring factions to create a unified party capable of beating the Conservatives.   Sir Keir stressed that one of the key tasks for the next Labour leader will be to unite the party which has been rocked by divisions and constant infighting since Mr Corbyn took charge in 2015.  She added: 'The fight for a liveable climate, for workers' rights, for democratic ownership - these struggles are ultimately indivisible, we cannot sacrifice one in pursuit of another and expect to succeed, so we must unite, we must rebuild, and when we win, we win for all of us, that's the Labour party I believe in. And that is our path to power.'  Ms Long-Bailey recently hinted that she took cannabis during a trip to Amsterdam as she prepares to formally launch her Labour leadership bid this evening.  She was asked during an interview with the Politics Joe website if she had 'ever taken illegal drugs'. She replied: 'Oh. Well, I've been to Amsterdam. That's all I will say.'  The Left-wing hopeful seemingly voiced understanding for Brexit voters in her campaign speech, saying: 'The story from the last couple of years is that many people instinctively feel there is something wrong with their laws being drafted hundreds of miles away by a distant and largely unaccountable bureaucratic elite in Brussels.' She added that when she was growing up, Westminster did not feel much less distant to her - 'and it still doesn't today; that's why I want to shake up the way government works'. 'I want to sweep away the House of Lords - the only unelected second chamber in the whole of Europe - and I want to replace it with a new elected senate based outside of London. 'We will end the gentleman's club of politics and we will be setting out to go further by devolving power out of Westminster to a regional or local level.  'An elected senate would have a new democratic legitimacy and should have new powers to reflect that. 'In my view this should include holding the government to account on the impact of new legislation on our wealth, our wellbeing and our environment.' Ms Long-Bailey voiced support for a kind of socialism where everyone was free to climb and succeed in a society where 'structural inequality and financial insecurity are gone'.  'And that means expanding alternative models of ownership and collective bargaining rights in our economy, that means fighting racism and xenophobia that means fighting for LGBTQ+ rights and gender equality. 'And it means rebalancing our economy so every town, city and region can thrive again with renewed pride - pride rooted in solidarity, inclusivity and internationalism. 'But of course none of this will happen without a Labour government.' She also spoke about the trip to Amsterdam she had made before entering politics, being asked 'Did you inhale?' To laughter and cheers from the largely young audience at the event, Ms Long-Bailey replied: 'I'll leave it up to you to decide why I went to Amsterdam, for flower markets or to partake in local delicacies.' She added that the country needed a 'national discussion' on the 'war on drugs', and to address what she said was the under-funding of police services. An earlier Survation poll of Labour members for the LabourList website published on Wednesday suggested Ms Long-Bailey had the support of 42 per cent of members with Sir Keir second with 37 per cent.  Jess Phillips had the support of nine per cent of members and Lisa Nandy had the backing of seven per cent.  Emily Thornberry vows to be an 'unashamedly socialist' Labour leader if she wins the battle to take over from Jeremy Corbyn Emily Thornberry vowed to be an 'unashamedly socialist' Labour leader if she takes over from Jeremy Corbyn and pledged to quit if she did badly in the top job. Ms Thornberry formally launched her leadership campaign with a speech in her home town of Guildford on January 17 as she desperately tried to make an impact on the contest. 'We must not make the mistake of defining it as a choice between who will take us to the left, or to the centre or to the right, because the only issue that really matters now is who will take us forward,' she said. 'Who will stand up and lead the fight? Who will give us strength, experience and passion? Who will give us an unashamedly socialist but deliverable manifesto? Who will win back the voters we lost in the last two years? And crucially, who will take us to victory and take us back into government? 'And it's because I believe I have the skill, the values and the vision to achieve all of those goals that I decided to stand up and fight for the Labour leadership.' She also promised that she would step down as Labour leader if people did not believe she was on course to win the next general election. She said: 'If I'm elected leader, and if I believe at any point, or you tell me, or my colleagues tell me, or the polls tell me, that I can't win an election and take us into power, I will always put the Labour party first. 'I will do what I believe is best to ensure we get a Labour government. So in those circumstances, I would stand down and give someone else the chance to achieve the only goal that counts for our country: getting a Labour Prime Minister back in power.' Ms Thornberry warned that Labour faces 'a long, tough road back to power' after the party last month suffered its worst general election defeat since 1935. She set out why she believes she is best placed to take the fight to the Tories. 'In my 42 years as a member of the Labour Party, there is no fight or campaign our movement has waged where I have not been on the frontline,' she said. 'And since coming to Parliament 15 years ago, I've also been on the frontline in the fights against climate change, Universal Credit, and anti-abortion laws in Northern Ireland. 'I've led the charge as shadow foreign secretary against Donald Trump and the war in Yemen. 'And in the two years I shadowed Boris Johnson as foreign secretary, I showed him up every time for the lying, reckless charlatan that he is.' Ms Thornberry squeaked into the next stage of the leadership race on Monday after managing to secure the backing of the required 22 MPs needed to progress. 
