{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  13:19, 16 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7894819/Rebecca-Long-Baile-womens-rights-row-suggesting-backed-tighter-abortion-rules.html }
Labour leadership front-runner was embroiled in a women's rights row over abortion today after the leak of a letter to church leaders suggesting she supported a tightening of the law. The Salford and Eccles MP said 'I personally do not agree' with the law allowing terminations up to birth if a women is carrying a disabled child, and 24 weeks if they are not disabled, in a letter to a Roman Catholic church before December's election. But her campaign team blasted the Red Roar website which obtained the letter, saying it was 'selectively quoted by the fake news peddlers' at the site. They said the 40-year-old Catholic left-winger 'unequivocally supports a woman's right to choose and has only ever voted in favour of extending the right to abortion'. Feminist politicians criticised Ms Long-Bailey's comments in the letter.  Labour leadership rival Jess Phillips said: 'I always have and always will trust women to make the decisions about their bodies.  'For me that isn't just a passive view, it has taken struggle and effort for that right to choose to exist. I will continue to be active in that struggle.' Sophie Walker, the founder of the Women's Equality Party, said: 'Women's equality starts and ends with control over our own bodies.  'It would be deeply worrying if Labour's front-runner and potential first woman leader did not trust women to make their own decisions.'  Ms Long-Bailey is in front in the race to become Labour leader, a shock poll revealed last night. Ms Long-Bailey, 40, is the hard-Left daughter of a Salford docker, groomed to take the helm of the Corbynite project by self-declared Marxist John McDonnell. She grew up in Old Trafford, Manchester, where she was exposed to left-wing politics from a young age. Her father Jimmy worked as a docker at Salford Quays and trade union representative at Shell at a time when workers' collectives wielded enormous power and threats of staff walkouts struck fear into ministers. On graduating from a Catholic high school, she worked in a pawn shop - an eye-opening experience which she says taught her 'more about the struggles of life than any degree or qualification ever could'. After holding down other jobs such as a call-centre operator, a furniture factory worker and a postwoman, she eventually studied to become a solicitor. The survey put the hard-Left Corbynite ahead of Sir Keir Starmer, the moderate ex-director of public prosecutions.  Labour's business spokesman is the choice of leading figures such as John McDonnell and Diane Abbott. But she has had a slow start to her campaign while Sir Keir has the support of Britain's largest union, Unison. The survey by Survation and the LabourList website of 3,835 party members between January 8 and 13 found that if the election took place today, Mrs Long-Bailey, would win 42 per cent.   She Ms Long-Bailey was asked questions by the Deanery of St John the Evangelist in her Salford constituency in December, and it posted her answers on its website.  One question was: 'Discrimination on grounds of disability or gender are illegal in this country except in the case of termination of pregnancy, would you support removing this discrimination?' She replied: 'It is currently legal to terminate a pregnancy up to full-term on the grounds of disability while the upper limit is 24 weeks if there is no disability.  'I personally do not agree with this position and agree with the words of the Disability Rights Commission that ''the context in which parents choose whether to have a child should be one in which disability and non-disability are valued equally''.'  In another section she was specifically asked whether she supported lowering the time limit, which pro-life groups including the Catholic Church advocate. The mother-of-one replied that she tried to 'understand the agonising decisions many feel forced to make and what support they would need'. And she added: 'My main concerns are about the lack of support, guidance and the lengths many may feel forced to go to.  'Gone are the days of back street abortion clinics and now I fear that many may look to the internet to procure dangerous and unregulated products, without the advice and support they may desperately need, putting themselves in danger and making a life altering decision without counselling or knowledge of the real emotional implications it will have.  'That is why I think that we do need to have a discussion about what a comprehensive, safe, properly regulated approach would be.  'One which also seeks to provide the advice and support to those who may feel forced to think about taking such a life changing decision.  Momentum has said its members have overwhelmingly backed Rebecca Long-Bailey for Labour leader, and have also voted for Angela Rayner for deputy. The campaign group said 70.42 per cent of respondents to a ballot voted to throw resources behind Ms Long-Bailey in the contest. Critics said the ballot was rigged because Miss Long-Bailey was the only name on it, with members not given the option to back another candidate.  The group's supporters were in favour of supporting Ms Rayner, but she was backed by a slim majority of 52.15 per cent. This may worry her camp, with many senior Labour figures backing her rival Richard Burgon for the post.   'The Labour manifesto states simply that ''we will uphold women's reproductive rights and decriminalise abortions.''  'We have not stated that time limits will be reviewed, and definitely not that they should be increased. 'Labour would propose a wide public consultation on the detail of new laws and regulations and of course I will play my part in that discussion in ensuring that your views are heard.' Last July year Ms Long-Bailey voted in favour of legalising abortion in certain circumstances in Northern Ireland under law changes brought in that also decriminalised same-sex marriage. But in October 2018 she abstained in two votes that sought to extend abortion rights in the province, which had tougher laws on abortion that the rest of the UK. A spokesman for Ms Long-Bailey said: 'Rebecca's response to the Deanery of Salford clarified the existing law and current Labour policy, stating that abortion procedures should be properly regulated, and that women's reproductive rights and the decriminalisation of abortion should be maintained.  'Rebecca's response was also a reflection of her own personal agreement with the Disability Rights Commission — that ''the context in which parents choose whether to have a child should be one in which disability and non-disability are valued equally'' — rather than her view on policy.  'During any proposed public consultation a wide range of views would of course be heard, and it is Rebecca's duty as an MP to ensure her constituents are able to respond.'  Sir Keir Starmer    Sir Kier Starmer was raised by socialist parents who named him after Keir Hardie, the Labour leader's founder and a colossus of the socialist movement. The current bookies' favourite to win the leadership, in Who's Who he refers to his parents Rodney and Josephine Starmer as 'Rod and Jo'.  The shadow Brexit secretary was an out-and-out Remainer who frequently clashed with Corbyn's inner circle over his overt support for a second referendum.   The 57-year-old lawyer, a former director of public prosecutions, was kept largely out of sight during the election campaign as the party tried, unsuccessfully, to hold on to Leave seats in the north.  Distrusted by hard left fans of Mr Corbyn, the Holborn and St Pancras MP set out his stall to be a unity candidate, attacking 'factionalism' and saying the party needed to include both Momentum and fans of Tony Blair. And he dangled a carrot in front of Corbynites, saying he did not want the party to move too far rightwards. He also played up his humble roots,  with the Oxford-educated lawyer Sir Keir, who owns homes in London and Surrey worth more than £2million, saying in December: 'I know what it's like. I actually never had been in any workplace other than a factory until I left home for university. I'd never been in an office.' He said he did not want a return to the era of Tony Blair, telling the BBC this morning: 'I don't need someone else's name tattooed on my head to make decisions.' But he might face difficulty if he is seen as not left wing enough, or if the party feels it needs a northern voice to win back seats.   Emily Thornberry Emily Thornberry has been dogged by claims of snobbery towards working-class voters for years. The shadow foreign secretary, whose Islington seat neighbours that of Jeremy Corbyn, was forced to resign from Ed Miliband's front bench in 2014 after tweeting an apparently mocking image of a house in Rochester with a white van and England flags outside. Labour came third in the by-election in the constituency, which was won by Ukip.  After December's election failure she was embroiled in a furious row with ex-minister Caroline Flint, who lost her Don Vallley seat to the Tories. Ms Flint claimed Mrs Thornberry told a northern MP privately that Brexit voters were 'stupid'. Mrs Thornberry has angrily denied the allegation and threatened to sue Ms Flint.    A lively performer in Parliament, she has admirers among Labour's clutch of metropolitan MPs. Ms Thornberry's London seat and vocal pro-Remain position could tell against her - although the membership is generally pro-EU.  Rebecca Long Bailey The shadow business secretary is seen as the 'continuity' candidate, having been closely involved in Labour's lurch to the Left. Frequently deployed on media, the 40-year-old's career has been pushed by shadow chancellor John McDonnell, who has long tipped her as a future leader. Entering the contest she set out her stall saying she will keep pushing 'our socialist agenda', stressing her hard-Left credentials. In a thinly-veiled swipe at rival Keir Starmer, she insisted she had not been happy with the party's Brexit stance in the election campaign, saying it had eroded 'trust in our communities'. She also admitted Labour should have been 'tougher' in addressing a wave of vile anti-Semitism among activists. But Ms Long Bailey gave a staunch defence of Mr Corbyn, complaining that he had been subjected to 'unprecedented levels of criticism and attack against his own personal character' and she felt he was the 'right man' with the 'right ideas'. Given Labour's dire need to reconnect with its traditional heartlands, her northern constituency and accent will also be selling points. Lisa Nandy The Wigan MP washed her hands of the Corbyn project some time ago - which could be a boon given its humiliating failure in the election. But the 40-year-old has maintained a high media profile, and has strong left-wing credentials away without being marked on the extreme. While the leadership desperately tried to stay neutral, she pushed hard for Labour to adopt a more Leave policy and accept the verdict of the referendum.  Announcing her run she said: 'Without what were once our Labour heartlands, we will never win power in Westminster ... I have heard you loud and clear.'  Ms Nandy was involved in unsuccessful talks to support Theresa May's deal, but has indicated she would not support Boris Johnson's harder Brexit. However, some MPs complain that she is 'lightweight' and failed to make good on her rhetoric about allowing Brexit to happen.  Jess Phillips    The Birmingham Yardley MP is a confident performer in the media and the House of Commons chamber.  Her straight-talking, no-nonsense manner and Brummie accent have won her many fans and she was one of the first names mentioned as a contender after Mr Corbyn announced he would step down.  But she had a tricky start to her campaign. She backtracked after she suggested she would campaign to take the UK back into the European Union if she takes over from Jeremy Corbyn.  Ms Phillips said that she would 'have to look at what was going on at the time' and that 'if it is more economically viable to be in the European Union then I will fight for that'.  But the MP for Birmingham Yardley then appeared to perform a screeching U-turn as she said there is 'no doubt or debate' that the UK is leaving the bloc and that she did not believe a pledge to rejoin would be in the party's next manifesto. The 38-year-old's willingness to criticise the leader has won her few friends among Corbynistas, with a groundswell of opposition to her taking over. She has been the target of high levels of online abuse from people across the political spectrum, including death threats.  She also has no experience of the party's front bench, something that could either count against her or for her, depending on the views of the members.   In March she said she would 'be a good prime minister'. At a time when several moderate MPs had quit Labour she added: 'I feel like I can't leave the Labour Party without rolling the dice one more time. I owe it that. But it doesn't own me. It's nothing more than a logo if it doesn't stand for something that I actually care about – it's just a f***ing rose'.    
