abortion
{ By Amie Gordon For Mailonline   Published:  13:32, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8024291/Woman-paid-witch-doctor-5-000-cast-spell-older-sister.html }
A woman hired a witch doctor to put a spell on her sister before stabbing her 68 times in a fit of jealous rage, a chilling documentary will show tonight.  Sabah Khan murdered her older sister Saima in a frenzied attack at their Luton home in May 2016, after having a four-year long affair with her brother-in-law, Saima's husband, Hafeez Rehman.  Sabah lured her older sister home under the ruse that her children were crying, before chopping off her hand, stabbing her 68 times and slashing her throat with such ferocity that she almost decapitated her. It later emerged that Sabah was infatuated with her sister's husband, and 'wanted him for herself.' Saima's four children aged one to seven, who were asleep upstairs, woke up as the 'scene of carnage unfolded' and Saima's seven-year-old daughter shouted down to her aunt: 'Are you killing a mouse?'  A new documentary airing tonight will show how Sabah looked into multiple methods to kill, including buying poison, venomous snakes and paying £5,000 for a Witch Doctor to put a spell on her sister.  Thought it first appeared to be a burglary gone wrong, detectives soon uncovered a complex love triangle between one husband and two sisters.    The Khan family lived under one roof, but over a four-year period, Sabah was having an affair with Saima's husband, taxi driver Hafeez Rehman.  At the time of her trial in 2017, the Old Bailey heard Sabah and her sister's husband had been having sex in his taxi and their home when his wife had gone to work. He was 21 when he met Sabah, and she was just ten. The court also heard how the younger sister had undergone an abortion after becoming pregnant by Mr Rehman.  Mr Rehman had taken advantage of the opportunity to sleep with both siblings and gain 'exclusive rights' over his sister-in-law, the Old Bailey heard.  Former detective Peter Bleksley said: 'She was infatuated with Hafeez. She wanted him to be entirely her own and she would stop at nothing to try and achieve that.' Jo Sidhu, Sabah's defence barrister, said Hafeez 'began exploring his options', and 'even inquired as to whether marrying his sister-in-law would be permissible in Islam'.  Author and former Detective Clare Mackintosh said in the three months leading up to Saima's death, Sabah researched online murder methods.  She handed a fixer £5,000 to have her sister 'finished off' and 'done in'. She told the fixer in text messages: 'Sorry to bother you again and again. My friend is really upset now Hefeez does not even look at her ....he says he realises his mistake ... You finish off Saima as quick as possible so Sabah can get her Hefeez back.'   Eventually, she bought a knife and lured her sister home before murdering her.  Mr Sidhu said: 'When the police attended, they found a scene of carnage in the hallway. It was literally a blood bath. Her sister's body was mutilated.'   Sabah attempted to stage a burglary at the scene, smashing a window and interfering with jewellery before calling police claiming her sister had been murdered by an intruder when she was in the shower. Bodycam footage captured Sabah breathless as she claimed she had found her sister's lifeless body lying in the hallway.  When a police officer asked why there was blood on her arm, she claimed to have wounded herself on 'glass' which was shattered on the floor after a supposed break-in.  Detectives initially investigated her claims before arresting her eight days later when they found the knife in a bin bag in her bedroom.  Forensic Psychologist Dr Donna Youngs said Sabah's guilt 'shines through her performance as she feigned shock over her sister's death.' 'What's really condemning here is that even though she's got it intellectually sorted, there's not a lot of the appropriate emotion,' she said.  'She's completely forgetting in her attempts to get her story across to exhibit appropriate emotion.' In 2017, Sabah Khan pleaded guilty to her sister's murder, and was sentenced to life with a minimum term of 22 years.  But Jo Sudhu claims Saima's husband Hafeez 'isn't blameless in his wife's death.'  He said: 'He eventually admitted, and it was like pulling teeth, that he had been involved in the affair. But he tried to blame Sabah for it. He told the police that he'd been forced to have sex over a period of several years with Sabah. 'In his heart, he knew that he'd contributed to the way in which his wife's life had ended. Had he not embarked on this affair, the situation would never have spiralled in the way that it did.' 
