{ By Ariel Zilber For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:26, 13 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7883493/Away-founder-Steph-Korey-returns-CEO-luxury-luggage-company-just-weeks-stepping-down.html }
The executive of a luxury suitcase start-up who quit her post last month after an online news site published allegations by employees who say she created a ‘toxic’ work culture is now back at her old job. Steph Korey, the 31-year-old co-founder of Away, has returned to the company to share the newly created title of co-chief executive with former lululemon COO Stuart Haselden, according to The New York Times. The about-face is a surprise considering that Korey last month stepped down after an investigation by the news site The Verge quoted a number of former employees as saying that she put in place a ‘cutthroat culture’ at the company. They revealed how the company's founders Korey and Jennifer Rubio worked them to the bone while allegedly underpaying them and asking them not to take time off. She said last month that she would have remained on the company's board of directors as executive chairman, but given up day-to-day duties of running the firm. But she now tells the Times that the company’s board is reversing itself. The company also announced it has hired a lawyer, Elizabeth M. Locke, the same attorney who successfully sued Rolling Stone magazine for defamation over an errant report alleging that a group of Virginia college students gang raped a young woman. It is unclear, however, if the hiring indicates that the company plans to sue The Verge. The news site’s editor-in-chief, Nilay Patel, told the Times: ‘Steph Korey responding to our reporting by saying her behavior and comments were “wrong, plain and simple” and then choosing to step down as CEO speaks for itself.’ Korey told the Times that board reversed its earlier decision, which she says was made due to the Verge story and the backlash it generated on social media. 'Frankly, we let some inaccurate reporting influence the timeline of a transition plan that we had,' she said. 'All of us [on the board] said, "It’s not right".'  Korey tearfully described to the Times the inner turmoil she has experienced since the story forced her to resign. She said she has been the target of harsh comments on Twitter, including some who wish she would terminate her pregnancy. 'It’s very upsetting if suddenly total strangers tell you that you should get an abortion,' Korey said. One Twitter user who reacted to The Verge story about her wrote: 'Imagine how she'll treat that baby.'  Korey said that the public outrage expedited her initial plan to have Haselden, whom she recruited to serve as company president, eventually take over as chief executive after a transition period.  'I said, "I don’t know if the company needs a CEO under fire right now",' she said.  '"Why don’t we just accelerate our transition plan?"'  Rubio, who is engaged to Slack CEO Stewart Butterfield, will remain the company's president and chief brand officer.  'I honestly thought that people didn’t care that much about the inner workings of Away,' she said,  'Who is CEO and who is executive chairman - that wasn’t something that, at a private company that’s less than four years old that sells travel products, I just didn’t think would be news and people would care.'  She said the decision to change titles last month made it appear as if she was leaving the company. In reality, however, she was still very much a part of its operations.  'The way it became perceived it was like I stepped down and like I left the company,' she said.  'I have a very external-facing role working with new vendors, working with new partners, recruiting new candidates.  'And without a change, it looks like they have a board director reaching out to them who doesn’t work at the company.' Haselden told the Times that the portrayal of Korey from The Verge did not match his personal experience with her. He praised Korey for her decision to step down last month, saying she was 'was very selfless in trying to defuse the firestorm of social media.' 'But it just created a misconception that she was exiting the business, which was never the intent,' Haslden said. Elevating both Haselden and Korey to the chief executive role 'will clarify how we intended to operate from the beginning.'  Korey said she still plans to eventually step aside after a transition period and that Haselden will take over as the sole chief executive.   Several employees last month told The Verge about what they described as a 'toxic' environment at the brand.  They revealed that Korey and Rubio banned emails between staff about work, only allowing them to communicate on Slack, a popular workplace messaging device, where they favored group discussions that were company-wide.  The group chats on Slack allowed Korey and Rubio to publicly shame employees they were dissatisfied with, the article claims, leaving some so upset that they burst into tears.  Rubio was less hands-on in her management of the company than Korey, they claim, who would frequently send out Slack messages after midnight, asking staff to come up with ideas for the following day.  Some of the staff members interviewed were earning $40,000-a-year.  Korey's Slack messages, including one where she told a customer service team: 'I am going to help you learn the career skill of accountability', were published.  Other messages that were sent by customer service director Alexandra Pasanen were also published, including one where she told the team on November 31 that they could either take New Year's Day off, as planned, and fall behind, or work and be given a month of paid time off at a later date.  One employee described having to turn her car around as she made her way to the airport to take a family Thanksgiving break because she was watching one of her team members being eviscerated by Korey on Slack.   Korey offered explanations for her leadership style in various statements to The Verge about specific examples.  Of the New Year's Eve example, she said: 'The team decided they’d prefer to work the holiday and get a month off because the team knew this day was really important for keeping the customer experience on track.'  In another she said: 'Managing people brings with it the responsibility to invest time and energy into providing thoughtful context around performance expectations and feedback.'  The staff members interviewed were mostly from the customer service team.  They reported being unable to keep up with the exorbitant number of inquiries they were getting from customers asking where their suitcases were.  They however tell stories that were company-wide.  According to them, Korey and Rubio banned staff from exchanging emails about work and enforced that all company communications happened on Slack.  They say the point was so no one was excluded.  'Over the course of our careers, Jen and I observed situations where women and underrepresented groups were often excluded from key emails or meetings. 'Slack affords levels of inclusion and transparency email simply doesn’t. With email the original author gets to pick who is included in the conversation and whose voices won’t be heard. That’s not the company we want,' Korey said.  But the former employees say it enabled a nowhere-to-hide environment where they would routinely put staff members on display if they were dissatisfied.  'It was like having your pants pulled down in front of the company and then they just walk away,' one said of an occasion when Korey blasted a manager's strategy to communicate with customers whose luggage hadn't arrived yet.  Others say they were punished for creating a thread where they aired their grievances. Some of the people on the channel were fired for it, they said.   In her Slack messages, she said: 'I would understand this recommendation from an associate or senior associate but to be completely candid this is not the level of thoughtfulness we expect from a Manager.'  On another occasion, Korey banned paid time off among a team of six customer experience associates until they were caught up to a standard she deemed adequate.  'I am going to help you learn the career skill of accountability...to hold you accountable, no new pto or wfh [work from home] requests will be considered from the 6 of you until we reach 5 consecutive days of all our attempts to reach cx on live platforms being successful. 'I hope everyone in this group appreciates the thoughtfulness I've put into creating this career development opportunity,' she wrote. The messages were sent at 3am.  Days later, she sent another saying: 'If you all choose to utilize your empowerment to leave our customers hanging...you will have convinced me that this group does not embody Away’s core values.'  On another occasion, she blasted Monte Williams, who had been hired to act as a buffer between her and the customer service team, in a string of public Slack messages which other employees said was like watching 'someone get stoned to death.'  After the Verge investigation was published, Korey apologized and claimed to be 'appalled' by her behavior. She told Business Insider: 'I can imagine how people felt reading those messages from the past, because I was appalled to read them myself. I am sincerely sorry for what I said and how I said it. 'It was wrong, plain and simple.'  Korey told the Times that after reading the article she acknowledges that she could have phrased her Slack messages differently. 'When I think back on ways I’ve phrased feedback, there have been times where the word choice isn’t as thoughtful as it should have been, or the way it was framed actually wasn’t as constructive as it could have been,' she said.  'Those are not, in the eyes of our leadership and the eyes of our board, terminal, unsolvable problems.'  Away found its niche as a direct-to-consumer travel brand offering consumers something unique; a stylish suitcase with functional features such as a USB charging doc which comes in an array of colors and finishes.  It propelled itself to become one of a handful of millennial-adored consumer brands by marketing online, mostly on social media, and utilizing celebrity power.  It is a private company which has raised more than $31million since founding in 2015.     
