{ By Lauren Ferri For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  15:27, 12 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7878489/Israel-Folau-says-pray-bushfires-sermon-saying-theyre-God-punishing-gay-marriage.html }
Israel Folau has broken down in tears in church speaking of the bushfire crisis,  months after he bizarrely linked the blazes to gay marriage and abortion. The sacked Wallabies star was visibly emotional during a sermon at the Church of Jesus Christ in Sydney, the same church where he previously told worshippers bushfires were 'God's punishment' for legalising same-sex unions. In the 17-minute sermon on Sunday, during which Folau repeatedly paused to wipe tears from his eyes, he questioned why it took the bushfire crisis for people to 'finally' turn to God.  'We look around, we see certain things that are happening around the world. Famines, earthquakes, wars, rumours of wars,' Folau said through tears.  'Look at this country here and all these devastating bushfires that have happened. I see on the news there are a lot of people out there saying all the things that they've lost and it's been a tragic event for this country. 'I see people saying that they've never prayed so hard in their life... why does it take something so devastating like the bushfires for people to humble themselves and get down on their knees and ask God for help?' Folau went on to say God 'turns his face against the wicked' and that it was the job of believers to have their prayers heard.  'As born again believers in the faith, we need to pray because of what’s happening in this nation with these devastating fires – our prayers are heard from God,' he said.   'This event can cause people to turn, and to come to the lord Jesus Christ. That’s what our prayer is, for people to come to know who the lord is.' The emotional sermon comes two months after he sparked outrage when suggesting fires and drought were God's punishment for legalising same-sex marriage and abortion on November 17. 'They've legalised same-sex marriage... Going against the laws that God says,' he said in footage posted to The Truth of Jesus Christ Church's Facebook page.  'Abortion - it's OK now to murder and kill infants, unborn children - and they deem that to be OK. 'Look how rapid these bushfires, these droughts, all these things they've come in a short period of time – you think it's a coincidence?' Folau told worshippers 'God was speaking' to Australia and said: 'You need to repent.' 'What you see out there in the world – it's only a little taste of what God's judgement is like. The news is saying these bushfires are the worst we’ve ever seen in Australia – they haven't seen anything. 'God is speaking to us. Speaking to you to repent and to turn away from this.' The 30-year-old went on to say same-sex marriage and abortion were 'evil in the eyes of God' but were deemed by society as 'good'.  'This generation is full of arrogance and full of pride,' he said. 'They want to turn their back on God. They don’t want to know one bit of who God is because they’re so immersed in their sinful, wicked, evil ways.' Folau's $4million contract was torn up by Rugby Australia after a social media post on Instagram saying homosexuals would go to hell unless they 'repent'.  The fired footy player in October said he has no regrets over his infamous Instagram post during a conference hosted by the Australian Christian Lobby. Folau reached an out-of-court settlement with Rugby Australia after lodging a $14 million compensation claim for wrongful termination in the wake of his infamous homophobic post on social media. The Folau's posted a video on social media after the settlement thanking God for 'his guidance and strength'. He also thanked the Australian Christian Lobby and apologised for any 'hurt or harm caused' but did not step back from his original anti-gay claim. Folau played 62 Tests for the Wallabies and became Super Rugby's all-time leading try-scorer earlier this year while playing for the NSW Waratahs. His career kicked off in rugby league, where he played 91 NRL games for Melbourne Storm and Brisbane Broncos, five Origin games for Queensland and represented Australia on eight occasions. He also played 13 games for AFL club GWS Giants in 2011-12.  Rugby Australia, NSW Rugby and Israel Folau have settled their legal dispute following the dismissal of Israel Folau after he posted a religious message on social media (the Social Media Post). The Social Media Post reflected Mr Folau's genuinely held religious beliefs, and Mr Folau did not want to harm or offend any person when he uploaded the Social Media Post. Mr Folau wants all Australians to know that he does not condone discrimination of any kind against any person on the grounds of their sexuality and that he shares Rugby Australia's commitment to inclusiveness and diversity. Rugby Australia and NSW Rugby do not in any way agree with the content of the Social Media Post. Inclusiveness is one of Rugby's core values and it welcomes all people to the game, including all members of the LGBTI community. While it was not Rugby Australia's intention, Rugby Australia acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused to the Folaus. Similarly, Mr Folau did not intend to hurt or harm the game of rugby and acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused. Rugby Australia and Mr Folau wish each other well for the future. The parties do not intend to comment further on the terms of their settlement as it is confidential.   
