{ By Andrew Court For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:03, 8 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7865465/White-supremacist-18-threw-Molotov-cocktail-Planned-Parenthood-clinic.html }
A Delaware teen has been charged after he allegedly threw a Molotov cocktail through the window of a local Planned Parenthood clinic - a crime that has been described as 'domestic terrorism'. Samuel James Gulick, 18, was arrested over the incident on Saturday - one day after the shocking attack on the nonprofit's Newark facility, which started a small fire.  According to prosecutors, Gulick drove past the Planned Parenthood premises shortly before 3 am on January 3,  and pulled the Molotov cocktail from a plastic bag. He lit the device and launched it at the building, where it damaged both a window and porch of the building.  The cocktail self-extinguished several minutes later.  Investigators were able to identify Guilick after tracking down the vehicle he was seen speeding away in after the attack.  Gulick is also alleged to have been captured on surveillance video spray-painting the Latin phrase 'Deus Vult', meaning  'God wills it', outside the Planned Parenthood clinic on the same night.  He has now been charged with  maliciously damaging a building used in interstate commerce, intentionally damaging a facility that provides reproductive health services, and possession of an unregistered destructive device under the National Firearms Act. He faces up to 20 years behind bars, and a $250,000 fine if found guilty of the offence.  President and CEO of Planned Parenthood Delaware, Ruth Lytle-Barnaby, told The Washington Post Wednesday that the crime act was 'an act of domestic terrorism'.  Extremist attacks at Planned Parenthood are not new - one report claims that there were 6,550 violent incidents against abortion providers in the United States and Canada, including homicide, arson and death threats, between 1977 and 2012.  However Lytle-Barnaby claims that perpetrators are now becoming younger and increasingly brazen.  She told the Washington Post that 'The safety of patients and staff is our top priority, and Planned Parenthood of Delaware has strong measures in place to ensure that our health centers are safe, supportive, welcoming environments for all people to get the high-quality health care they need.' Meanwhile, BuzzFeed has revealed that Guilick shared a series of anti-abortion memes on his now defunct Instagram account.    One claimed that '60 million lives have been destroyed' since the passing of Roe V Wade in 1973.  Guilick captioned beneath the meme: 'The Nazis said killing millions of Jews was a national health issue. Democrats are using the same excuse to kill American children. When will we start shooting? Its about time we kill these genocidal demons.  Meanwhile, several other posts also mocked women and homosexuals.  And, chillingly, another snap showed the teen with a rifle laid out on his desk.  'Cleaning my shotgun,' he captioned.  Guilick remains in federal custody.  
