{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline   Published:  09:37, 8 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7864021/Mother-attempted-suicide-twice-struggling-bond-baby.html }
A mother who attempted suicide twice after battling with guilt over a previous abortion and struggling to bond with her baby son is now sharing the brutally honest realities of motherhood online to stop dangerous perceptions of perfect parenting. Catherine Mousley, 34, originally from Nottingham but now living in south London, became pregnant for the first time in January 2017. She and partner Chris, 37, made the heart-wrenching decision to terminate the pregnancy at 17 weeks after the child was diagnosed with chromosome abnormality Monosomy 21 and Down's syndrome. After the birth of son Jake in May 2018, project coordinator Catherine felt so much grief and guilt about the earlier termination that she struggled to feel any love for her son and wasn't able to bond with him properly. Catherine was sectioned at South London's Bethlem Royal Hospital's Mother and Baby Unit [MBU] but self-harmed – cutting her arms with a razor blade, one time making 17 lacerations – and attempted to kill herself twice because she believed she had failed as mum. During her time at the MBU she shared her struggles in a BBC Louis Theroux documentary on mothers with severe mental illnesses. After being discharged in January last year, now Catherine shares not only her good days but her daily struggles looking after Jake, now 20 months, with more than 3,000 social media followers to show other mums battling mental illness that they're not on their own. 'During my pregnancy and after Jake was born, Instagram created some sort of perfect image of motherhood which made me feel as though I wasn't a good enough mother,' Catherine explained. 'When I first attempted suicide, I was so on the edge and the trigger was that I was struggling being around Jake, so I made a snap decision to end it all. 'I wanted to end my life because I didn't feel like I deserved to be a mother after I ended my first baby's life. 'But I'm so glad the suicide attempts didn't work and, even though they did leave me with liver damage, there's so much that life has to offer. 'The joy Jake brings me now is immense and he makes me laugh every day. I feel so fortunate to be able to help others.' After she and Chris made the heart breaking choice not to continue with their first pregnancy, Catherine gave birth at 17 weeks.  'It was a very stressful and emotional time and I was consumed with the guilt about ending my child's life,' she said. 'If I had brought my baby into the world they would have had life-threatening conditions, but I feared so much judgement either way. 'During my pregnancy with Jake, I had no physical complications but mentally I felt so anxious because I was worried that we might lose him too. 'I was so distressed about something going wrong. I felt strongly about ending my life if my second pregnancy had problems, I just couldn't cope.' Catherine has a history of mental illness, having suffered from severe anorexia and bulimia since she was 12, coupled with depression and anxiety. After relocating from a small town near Nottingham to London, she felt overwhelmed because she was adjusting into a new job, home and trying to make new friends, all while being pregnant with Jake. Catherine believes her mental health problems after Jake was born were exacerbated due to a difficult and long labour, which culminated in a traumatic birth. When Jake was delivered by the midwife and laid on her chest, Catherine admitted she felt 'nothing'. 'There was no rush of love,' she recalled.   Not knowing what to do with her newborn baby and still in shock, she turned to excessive cleaning in order to feel like she had control over something – often hoarding cleaning products and leaving nothing untouched, especially in the kitchen, for up to three hours a day. Eventually in September 2018, Catherine met with the perinatal team because she was feeling like she couldn't be in the same room as Jake and wanted to have him adopted. She was referred to the MBU, where she was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder. Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a disorder of mood and how a person interacts with others. It's the most commonly recognised personality disorder. In general, someone with a personality disorder will differ significantly from an average person in terms of how he or she thinks, perceives, feels or relates to others. The symptoms of BPD can be grouped into 4 main areas: - emotional instability – the psychological term for this is affective dysregulation - disturbed patterns of thinking or perception – cognitive distortions or perceptual distortions - impulsive behaviour - intense but unstable relationships with others The symptoms of a personality disorder may range from mild to severe and usually emerge in adolescence, persisting into adulthood. The causes of BPD are unclear. But as with most conditions, BPD appears to result from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Traumatic events that occur during childhood are associated with developing BPD. Many people with BPD will have experienced parental neglect or physical, sexual or emotional abuse during their childhood. If you're experiencing symptoms of BPD, make an appointment with a GP. Source: NHS  Catherine spent one week in Dartford MBU, before moving to Bethlem, where the Louis Theroux documentary was filmed. During her time in the mother and baby unit, where she was kept on watch, Catherine tried to take her own life twice, in November and December 2018. She often went missing and Chris would stay up all night looking for her. Catherine was close to attempting to end her own life again in June 2019 after relapsing, and had to spend a further week in hospital.  'After Jake was born, I just thought, "What have I done?",' she said. 'I didn't feel anything for him, so I didn't feel like living.' Despite her difficulties, the MBU helped her due to giving her a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder, supporting her with a medication change and offering therapy. Catherine also took part in sessions where doctors filmed her playing with Jake so she could watch them back and build her confidence in parenting. Being interviewed for the Louis Theroux documentary helped her by enabling her to tell her story. She said: 'I used to trawl the internet to see if anyone else spoke about what I was going through and I couldn't find anything. 'I felt that by being a voice, it might help other mothers speak up through filming the documentary, then we could eventually all help each other. 'I knew my behaviour wasn't normal, but it was normal for me, so being diagnosed was a massive relief. 'The diagnosis explained so many things in my life and it has been empowering because I actually understand my emotions and behaviour a lot better.' Catherine has now formed a very close bond with Jake, and she is back working full-time. She is taking a course to provide A&E peer support, where she will use her own experiences to help others and provide a bridge between patients and psychiatrisst. Catherine uses her brutally honest Instagram page, which she set up in April 2019, as a diary to share her story and progress to other mums. Her captions, which include sharing how she coped with grief after her pregnancy termination and sharing the services which help her treat her BPD, provide support to thousands of women worldwide. 'I always had had so much inside to say but no courage or place to say it, but now I've found my community on Instagram,' she said. 'It's so important to share the brutal realities of parenting online because there's this fantasy mums should immediately fall in love with their baby, but that isn't real for everyone. 'I want to show the real side of parenting, to show that other mums are going through the same thing.' Catherine and Chris are also seeking relationship counselling to help them re-bond as a couple. Catherine said: 'I bonded with Jake when he was eight months old – now, I find myself going to kiss his head when I couldn't do that before. 'I videoed him giggling for the first time at eight months old which helped me turn a corner because it was a heart-warming sound I'd been waiting to hear for so long and he'd not giggled like that before. 'I'd managed to make him laugh; it was a huge boost to my self-esteem. 'For the first time I felt confident enough about my mothering skills and the emotional connection. Now I always go back and view that video if I'm ever having a bad day. 'I'm not afraid to show my self harm scars on my pictures - so much goes on behind closed doors and lots of people suffer in silence, but you're not alone. 'It's so dangerous to perpetuate ideas of perfection in parenthood because it's not real and doesn't exist.   'Some people might think that they're going to have the most wonderful pregnancy and be glowing; that they will have the perfect birth and instantly be able to breastfeed - but that doesn't happen all the time. 'This can leave them finding it hard to cope and feeling like they have failed which can tip them over the edge when they're at their most vulnerable. It's better to share the real image of motherhood.  'I hope my words are a source of comfort to others. Someone told me my Instagram account saves lives – I really hope I've helped to do this.' You can follow Catherine on Instagram here: instagram.com/maternalmentalhealthproject For confidential support in the UK call the Samaritans on 116123, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.   
