abortion
{ By Shelby Slaughter For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:45, 8 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7863793/Milla-Jovovich-bares-baby-bump-T-shirt-jeans-family-Beverly-Hills.html }
She's inching closer to her due date. But that didn't stop Hellboy actress Milla Jovovich from going out on a stroll with her daughter Ever, 12, and husband Paul W.S. Anderson, 54, in Beverly Hills. The actress, 44, displayed her baby bump while out on a walk with her family as her daughter rocked a neon pink hairstyle while carrying a little Yorkshire terrier puppy.  For her casual outing, the star donned a simple heather-gray t-shirt with a tank top underneath that helped cover up her growing belly. She wore a pair of boyfriend jeans that she appeared to have trouble keeping up and kept pulling on them as she walked. The family appeared to be enjoying their last bit of time together before they welcome another family member to the group. Back in August, the mother-of-two revealed that she was expecting yet again. 'After I found out I was pregnant 13 weeks ago, I had a mixture of feelings ranging between complete joy and utter terror,' she revealed on her Instagram at the time.  'Because of my age and losing the last pregnancy I didn't want to get attached to this potential baby too quickly.'  She continued: 'That was obviously not fun and the last few months have been my family and I living on pins and needles waiting for a slew of different test results to come in and spending most of our time in doctors offices.' After she was in the clear, the actress was elated to share the news with her followers and reveal that she was expecting a little girl.  Two years ago, when filming a movie abroad she had an emergency abortion after going into preterm labor.  'I went into preterm labor and was told that I had to be awake for the whole procedure,' she wrote in a post on her Instagram.  'It was one of the most horrific experiences I have ever gone through. I still have nightmares about it. I was alone and helpless. When I think about the fact that women might have to face abortions in even worse conditions than I did because of new laws, my stomach turns.' 'I spiraled into one of the worst depressions of my life and had to work extremely hard to find my way out,' she said.  'I took time off of my career. I isolated myself for months and had to keep a strong face for my two amazing kids. I started gardening, eating healthier and going to the gym every day because I didn't want to jump into taking antidepressants unless I had tried every other alternative. Thank God I was able to find my way out of that personal hell without turning to medication, but the memory of what I went through and what I lost will be with me till the day I die.'      
