abortion
{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:48, 8 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7863433/Minka-Kelly-goes-strapless-colorful-striped-ball-gown-Fashion-Scholarship-Fund-Gala-NYC.html }
Titans action star Minka Kelly made quite a dramatic entrance to the 83rd annual Fashion Scholarship Fund gala at the New York Hilton on Tuesday. The 39-year-old LA native struck a pose in a colorful-striped Bibhu Mohapatra ball gown featuring a black bustier top, which was selected by stylist Toye Adedipe. The Drunk History funnywoman wore her brunette mane down in waves for the awards ceremony.   Minka sported an excess of pink blush and she brought out her brown eyes with lashes and defined brows. The Fashion Scholarship Fund is a national non-profit association dedicated to supporting, nurturing, and honoring the future of fashion. Kelly was joined by fashionABLE founder Barrett Ward, whom she's partnered with as far back as 2009 in Ethiopia and Kenya to help sex-trafficking survivors. Later, the nepotistically-privileged daughter of former Aerosmith guitarist Rick Dufay hit the stage to accept a translucent trophy from Eleanor Turner.   The Friday Nights alum last made headlines on May 16 speaking out about the abortion she underwent when she was young, which was the 'smartest decision I could've made.' 'Not only for myself and my boyfriend at the time, but also for this unborn fetus,' Minka wrote to her 1.3M social media following. 'For a baby to have been born to two people - too young and completely ill equipped - with no means or help from family, would have resulted in a child born into an unnecessary world of struggle. Having a baby at that time would have only perpetuated the cycle of poverty, chaos and dysfunction I was born into.' Kelly concluded: 'Lest we forget, outlawing abortion has never stopped women from attempting it.'  Other celebs who joined the #YouKnowMe campaign included Cynthia Nixon, Rosanna Arquette and Ashley Judd, Milla Jovovich, Busy Philipps, Keke Palmer, and Jameela Jamil. The 5ft5in brunette certainly bulked up her biceps playing vigilante Dawn 'Dove' Granger on the set of DC Universe series Titans, now shooting season three. This Friday, Netflix users can start streaming the 13-episode second season of the superhero series created by Akiva Goldsman, Geoff Johns, and Greg Berlanti. 
