{ By Luke Kenton For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:20, 7 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7862277/Covington-student-settles-CNN-undisclosed-275million-lawsuit.html }
CNN has agreed to settle a lawsuit brought against them by a Kentucky high school student who says he was vilified and bullied by the news network in his stand-off with a native American protester last year. Nicholas Sandmann had been seeking $275 million in damages from CNN over their coverage of the confrontation he had with activist Nathan Phillips during a field trip to Washington DC in January 2019. In the suit, filed back in March, Sandmann's attorney claimed that 'CNN brought down the full force of its corporate power, influence, and wealth on Nicholas by falsely attacking, vilifying, and bullying him despite the fact that he was a minor child.' CNN agreed to settle the suit during a hearing at the federal courthouse in Covington this afternoon, however the settlement amount was not made public. Sandmann and his family still have lawsuits pending against NBC Universal and the Washington post regarding their coverage of the incident, seeking combined damages of more than $525 million. 'This case will be tried not one minute earlier or later than when it is ready,' Sandmann’s attorney Lin Wood said of the remaining lawsuits.   Sandmann, a student at Covington Catholic High School, in Park Hills, Kentucky, claimed CNN, the Post and NBC all falsely labeled him a racist after his encounter with Phillips next to the Lincoln Memorial last year.  Covington students participated in the annual anti-abortion March for Life in January, which coincided with an 'Indigenous Peoples March.' An image of Sandmann and American Indian leader Nathan Phillips, in which a MAGA hat-wearing Sandmann grinned through a stare-down with a drumming and singing Phillips, quickly went viral. Both Sandmann and Phillips say they were trying to defuse tensions rising among three groups marching on the same day. An organization of black 'Hebrew Israelites' demonstrating nearby added to the confusion. The Post and other outlets characterized Sandmann as a smug racist who initiated a physical confrontation. Video footage later debunked that initial interpretation. The legal complaint claimed that the Post 'ignored basic journalist standards because it wanted to advance its well-known and easily documented, biased agenda against President Donald J. Trump ... by impugning individuals perceived to be supporters.' The Post reported that Sandmann and other schoolboys had 'surrounded' and 'taunted' the 64-year-old Phillips, and claimed that a 'smirking' Sandmann had stood in Phillip's path, blocking him from moving. In a subsequent editor's note, the paper conceded that its own reporting had allowed 'a more complete assessment of what occurred, either contradicting or failing to confirm accounts provided in that story — including that Native American activist Nathan Phillips was prevented by one student from moving on, that his group had been taunted by the students in the lead-up to the encounter, and that the students were trying to instigate a conflict.'  Sandmann's filing against CNN said the network failed to do its basic journalistic duty by propagating false claims about him. 'CNN ignored the facts and put its anti-Trump agenda first in waging a 7-day media campaign of false, vicious attacks against Nicholas, a young boy who was guilty of little more than wearing a souvenir Make America Great Again cap while on a high school field trip,' the complaint reads. The court filing says that CNN, in multiple broadcasts and online articles, falsely accused Sandmann of 'instigating a threatening confrontation with several African American men ('the Black Hebrew Israelites') and subsequently instigating a threatening confrontation with Native Americans who were in the midst of prayer following the Indigenous Peoples March at the National Mall.' 'In fact, it was Nicholas and his CovCath classmates who were bullied, attacked, and confronted with racist and homophobic slurs and threats of violence by the Black Hebrew Israelites, a recognized hate group, before being unexpectedly confronted by Phillip, an activist, who proceeded to target Nicholas while chanting and beating a drum inches from his face and being flanked by activists companions filming the event,' the complaint states.   Wood explained in an interview back in March that he believed CNN had done even greater damage to his client's reputation than the Washington Post.  'CNN was probably more vicious in its direct attacks on Nicholas than The Washington Post. And CNN goes into millions of individuals' homes,' Wood told Fox News.     'They really went after Nicholas with the idea that he was part of a mob that was attacking the Black Hebrew Israelites, yelling racist slurs at the Black Hebrew Israelites. Totally false,' Wood added.      Wood said the damages were sought due to the 'emotional distress Nicholas and his family suffered.'  He also said the family had to move from their home temporarily and that Nicholas was not permitted to attend school directly after the trip to Washington. A lawsuit is expected to be filed against Phillips, Wood said. He indicated that lawsuit would seek $5 million, but the judge said that Phillips does not have as much money as the other defendants. They also plan to sue Gannett, owners of The Enquirer, according to Wood, who said he will bring that case before the judge in the next 60 days. Attorneys say the money they’re seeking is not designed to compensate Nick, but to “deter the defendants” from doing the same thing (that they’re accused of) in the future. He also said the family had to move from their home temporarily amid the backlash and that Nicholas was not permitted to attend school directly after the trip to Washington. Sandmann is also likely to file a lawsuit against Phillips, Wood said, indicating that his client would would seek $5 million, though the judge said that Phillips does not have as much money as the other defendants. They also plan to sue Gannett, owners of The Enquirer, according to Wood. He said that lawsuit will be brought before the judge in the next 60 days. Sandmann's attorneys say the money they’re seeking is not designed to compensate their client, rather to 'deter the defendants' from doing the same thing in the future. 
