abortion
{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  03:58, 6 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7855481/Golden-Globes-2020-Pregnant-Michelle-Williams-talks-abortion-right-choose-acceptance-speech.html }
Michelle Williams has delivered a spine-tingling speech on the right to choose at the 2020 Golden Globe Awards leaving her best friend Busy Philipps in tears. After collecting the Best Performance by an Actress in a Limited Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television award for her role in Fosse/Verdon, the pregnant actress spoke about abortion as she said the right to choose had enabled her to thrive in her career. 'I've tried my very best to live a life of my own making and not just a series of events that happened to me, but one that I can stand back and look at and recognize my handwriting all over,' she told the audience in Los Angeles, California on Sunday.  'Sometimes, messy and scrawling, sometimes careful and precise. But one that I had carved with my own hand, and I wouldn't have been able to do this without employing a woman's right to choose.'  The star continued: 'To choose when to have my children and with whom, when I felt supported and able to balance our lives, knowing, as all mothers know, the scales must and will tip towards our children. 'Now, I know my choices might look different than yours, but thank God, or whomever you pray to, that we live in a country founded on the principle that I am free to live by my faith and you are free to live by yours.'  Delivering a wider plea for women to vote in the 2020 election, she said: 'Women, 18 to 118, when it comes time to vote, vote in your own self-interest. It's what men have been doing for years, which is why the world looks so much like them. But don't forget, we are the largest voting body in this country. Let's make it look more like us.' Williams - who has 14-year-old daughter Matilda with late actor Heath Ledger - spoke as her best friend actress Busy Philipps - who had an abortion when she was 15 - wiped away tears.  Philipps sat beside the award-winner's husband-to-be, Thomas Kail, 42. Williams ended the speech raising her trophy and saying: 'Tommy and Matilda, I can't wait to come home to you.'  Her speech received noticeable applause from actress Jennifer Aniston, and Kate McKinnon - who regularly makes fun of politicians in her role on Saturday Night Live.  Tiffany Haddish who was presenting an award with Salma Hayek added after the speech: 'Mmm hmm. I'm about that women's choice!'  Comedienne Sarah Silverman and The Roots musician QuestLove were some of the many people to react in support on Twitter. The Time's Up movement - championed by the likes of Williams and Philipps - also reacted in a tweet.  Williams was competing against actresses Helen Mirren, Joey King, Kaitlyn Dever and Merritt Wever to take the accolade for playing Gwen Verdon, the dancer and collaborator with choreographer and director Bob Fosse whose relationship with him was the basis of the FX show Fosse/Verdon.  It was especially important to Cougar Town star Philipps, who testified before congress this summer about a woman's right to choose.   Philipps was one of eight witnesses who testified in front of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution in June, days after Louisiana became the eighth state to pass highly-restrictive legislation banning abortions after six weeks - taking direct aim at Roe v Wade. 'I had my abortion when I was 15 years old, in my home state of Arizona in 1994,' she told the group of six Republicans and eight Democrats. 'It was not a decision I made lightly. But I have never for a moment doubted that it was the right decision for me. But so much has changed - in Arizona and other states - since then.' Phillips continued: 'If I were that 15 year old girl in Arizona today, legally I would have to get parental consent. 'I would be forced to undergo a medically unnecessary ultrasound, to go to a state-mandated in-person counseling, designed solely to shame me into changing my mind, then take a state-mandated 24-hour time out to make sure I really knew what I wanted. 'And finally, I would be forced to give the state a reason WHY. Well, here is mine: my body belongs to me, not the state. Women and their doctors are in the best position to make informed decisions about what is best for them. No one else.'  Philipps star first told her story in her October 2018 memoir This Will Only Hurt a Little.  'I can not sit idly by while women’s rights are stripped away,' Philipps said in May her E! late-night talk show Busy Tonight. 'The statistic is one in four women will have an abortion before age 45. 'That statistic sometimes surprises people and maybe you’re sitting there thinking, "I don’t know a woman who would have an abortion." Well, you know me. 'I had an abortion when I was 15 years old and I’m telling you this because I’m genuinely really scared for women and girls all over this country.' She told the Guardian in an interview this summer: 'There is power to being vocal about your experiences as a person because whether we like it or not, people lack empathy, they lack the ability to understand someone else’s situation until they’re really faced with it – until it’s really shown to them. 'There’s a great deal of value in sharing all of our stories and experiences in order to elicit change.'  The best friends and Williams' fiance celebrated the win by taking the new Golden Globe for an Italian meal at Jon & Vinny's. Williams, 39, surprised fans earlier this week, announcing both her engagement and pregnancy. She was a vision in peach as she walked the red carpet revealing a small bump in a stunning floor-length peach gown, with an empire waist and asymmetrically draped top.  Kail, 42, is credited as one of the creators and director of Fosse/Verdon.   Just before New Year's Eve, the news broke that she's engaged to Thomas and is expecting his child — just eight months after splitting from her husband Phil Elverum, after less than a year of marriage. Michelle and Phil, meanwhile, are still legally married, having tied the knot in a private ceremony held in the Adirondack Mountains in July 2018. However, The Hollywood Reporter revealed in April that the couple had already split up close to the start of last year. While little was revealed about why they were going their separate ways, the split was said to be amicable.    TELEVISION Best Performance by an Actor in a Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Christopher Abbott, Catch-22 Sacha Baron Cohen, The Spy Russell Crowe, The Loudest Voice - WINNER Jared Harris, Chernobyl Sam Rockwell, Fosse/Verdon Best Performance by an Actress in a Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Kaitlyn Dever, Unbelievable Joey King, The Act,  Helen Mirren, Catherine the Great Merritt Wever, Unbelievable Michelle Williams, Fosse/Verdon - WINNER Best Television Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Catch-22, Hulu Chernobyl, HBO - WINNER Fosse/Verdon, FX The Loudest Voice, Showtime Unbelievable, Netflix Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Alan Arkin Kieran Culkin, Succession Andrew Scott, Fleabag Stellan Skarsgård, Chernobyl - WINNER Henry Winkler, Barry Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy Barry, HBO Fleabag, Amazon - WINNER The Kominsky Method, Netflix The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, Amazon The Politician, Netflix Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Patricia Arquette, The Act - WINNER Helena Bonham Carter, The Crown Toni Collette, Unbelievable Meryl Streep, Big Little Lies Emily Watson, Chernobyl Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy Michael Douglas, The Kominsky Method Bill Hader, Barry  Ben Platt, The Politician Paul Rudd, Living with Yourself Ramy Youssef, Ramy - WINNER Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy Christina Applegate, Dead to Me Rachel Brosnahan, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel Kirsten Dunst, On Becoming a God in Central Florida Natasha Lyonne, Russian Doll Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Fleabag - WINNER Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Drama Brian Cox, Succession - WINNER Kit Harington, Game of Thrones Rami Malek, Mr. Robot Tobias Menzies, The Crown Billy Porter, Pose Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series – Drama Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show Olivia Colman, The Crown - WINNER Jodie Comer, Killing Eve Nicole Kidman, Big Little Lies Reese Witherspoon, The Morning Show  Best Television Series – Drama Big Little Lies, HBO The Crown, Netflix Killing Eve, BBC America The Morning Show, Apple TV Plus Succession, HBO - WINNER  FILM Best Motion Picture – Foreign Language The Farewell, A24 Pain and Glory, Sony Portrait of a Lady on Fire, Pyramide Films Les Misérables, BAC Films, Amazon  Parasite, CJ Entertainment - WINNER  Best Original Score – Motion Picture Daniel Pemberton, Motherless Brooklyn Alexandre Desplat, Little Women Hildur Guðnadóttir, Joker - WINNER Thomas Newman, 1917 Randy Newman, Marriage Story  Best Original Song – Motion Picture Beautiful Ghosts, Cats  (I’m Gonna) Love Me Again, Rocketman - WINNER Into the Unknown, Frozen II Spirit, The Lion King Stand Up, Harriet  Best Actor in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture Tom Hanks, A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood Anthony Hopkins, The Two Popes Al Pacino, The Irishman Joe Pesci, The Irishman Brad Pitt, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood - WINNER Best Actress in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture Kathy Bates, Richard Jewell Annette Bening, The Report Laura Dern, Marriage Story - WINNER Jennifer Lopez, Hustlers Margot Robbie, Bombshell Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy Daniel Craig, Knives Out Roman Griffin Davis, Jojo Rabbit Leonardo DiCaprio, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Taron Egerton, Rocketman - WINNER Eddie Murphy, Dolemite Is My Name Best Screenplay Noah Baumbach, Marriage Story Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won, Parasite Anthony McCarten, The Two Popes Quentin Tarantino, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood - WINNER Steven Zaillian, The Irishman Best Motion Picture – Animated Frozen II, Disney How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World, Universal Missing Link, United Artists Releasing Toy Story 4, Disney The Lion King, Disney Best Director – Motion Picture Bong Joon-ho, Parasite Sam Mendes, 1917 - WINNER Todd Phillips, Joker Martin Scorsese, The Irishman Quentin Tarantino, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood  Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama Christian Bale, Ford v Ferrari Antonio Banderas, Pain and Glory Adam Driver, Marriage Story Joaquin Phoenix, Joker - WINNER Jonathan Pryce,  The Two Popes Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy Awkwafina, The Farewell - WINNER Ana de Armas, Knives Out Cate Blanchett, Where’d You Go, Bernadette Beanie Feldstein, Booksmart Emma Thompson, Late Night Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama Cynthia Erivo, Harriet Scarlett Johansson, Marriage Story Saoirse Ronan, Little Women Charlize Theron, Bombshell Renée Zellweger, Judy - WINNER Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Sony - WINNER Jojo Rabbit, Fox Searchlight Knives Out, Lionsgate Rocketman, Paramount Dolemite Is My Name, Netflix Best Motion Picture – Drama The Irishman, Netflix Marriage Story, Netflix 1917, Universal - WINNER Joker, Warner Bros. The Two Popes, Netflix 
