{ By James Mills for MailOnline   Published:  09:10, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8023885/Pete-Buttigieg-accused-anti-God-husbands-pastor-brother.html }
Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg has been accused of being 'anti-God' by his husband's pastor brother. Rhyan Glezman, 35, a pastor in Clio, Michigan, was reacting to Buttigieg's assertion this week that it was impossible to be a Christian and to vote for Donald Trump. Glezman, whose younger brother Chasten is married to Buttigieg, said on Tucker Carlson Tonight: 'Just everything that Pete is pushing is, it's anti-God. I'm just gonna be honest with you. 'Nothing lines up with Scripture for him to make cases like to say that you cannot be a Christian and vote for Trump. He's the one that is openly contradicting God's word over and over.'  He added that it was 'the height of intellectual dishonesty for Pete to make claims that there's no compatibility with being a Christian and voting for Trump.' He said: 'Pete, in fact, is the one who is pushing agendas and rhetoric that is against, clearly against Scripture.' Buttigieg, 38, made his comments after being asked by CNN host Erin Burnett: 'Do you think that it's impossible to be a Christian and support Trump?' 'I'm not going to tell other Christians how to be Christian,' Buttigieg said during a town hall.  'But I will say I cannot find any compatibility between the way this president conducts himself and anything I find in Scripture.' Buttigieg met Chasten, a teacher, in 2015 on a dating app and they married three years later. Glezman also reacted to a clip of Buttigieg on The View addressing partial-birth abortion after he was asked where his 'line is.' 'But my point is that it shouldn't be up to a government official to draw the line,' Buttigieg said. 'It should be up to the woman who's confronted.' Glezman told Tucker on Wednesday: 'I'm just in a state of lament when you hear that we have someone running for commander in chief who can't make a moral decision on whether to keep a child after it's already been born or to have it killed. 'What kind of moral suggestions is he going to be given if he can't come to an understanding of that? It's just, it's alarming.' Buttigieg has previously clashed with his brother-in-law last year when Glezman accused the politician of hijacking his family's history for political advantage by crafting a bogus backstory of poverty, homelessness, and homophobia. Glezman said he received death threats and hate mail when stories circulated claiming he was a bigot who had fallen out with his younger brother Chasten when he told his family he was gay. Glezman insisted he'd been supportive and that he wanted 'the best for him' but he admitted he opposed gay marriage. He added last May: 'A mayor from a small city and his husband, a child who grew up with nothing and his parents kicked him out … it makes a perfect political story for the campaign. 'To me that's very sad. If that's all you have to stand on, you're not fit to be president of the United States.'   .     
