{ By Justin Enriquez For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:20, 6 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7855155/Golden-Globes-2020-Winners-announced-film-television.html }
It has been 16 years since Renee Zellweger came home with a Golden Globe and it has been even longer for Brad Pitt who last won in 1996. But the two veteran stars changed their fortunes in yet another great Hollywood comeback story. The 56-year-old actor earned Best Actor in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture at the star-studded event held at the Beverly Hills Hilton on Sunday night before his film Once Upon A Time In Hollywood earned top honor Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. Zellweger, 50, then won for her role in Judy Garland biopic Judy in one of the most contentious categories of the night: Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama. She last won Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture for Cold Mountain in 2004 while it has been 24-years since Pitt won Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture for his work in Twelve Monkeys. Zellweger faced stiff-competition including: Cynthia Erivo (Harriet), Scarlett Johansson (Marriage Story), Saoirse Ronan (Little Women), and Charlize Theron (Bombshell). In her speech she showed respect to her fellow nominees as she said: 'Well hi, everybody. It’s nice to see you. You all look pretty good, 17 years later. Thank you to the HFPA for inviting me back to the family reunion, especially with all these extraordinary ladies this year. 'Your work moves me, and I’ve been cheering for y’all from theater seats for a long time.' Judy follows legendary performer Judy Garland after she arrives in London in the winter of 1968 to perform a series of sold out concert.  During his speech, Brad had the attention of the crowd as he also paid tribute to his co-star Leonardo DiCaprio while making a Titanic joke as he said: 'I also have to thank my partner in crime, LDC.... he’s an all star, he’s a gent. I wouldn’t be here without you, man. I thank you. Still, I would have shared the raft.' He concluded the fun acceptance speech with a sweet humanitarian message by saying: 'Hey, if you see an opportunity to be kind to someone tomorrow, take it. I think we all need it.'  Pitt beat out A-list talent including: Tom Hanks (A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood), Anthony Hopkins (The Two Popes), Al Pacino (The Irishman), and Joe Pesci (The Irishman). His big award was one of three earned by Once Upon A Time In Hollywood including Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. Producer David Heyman accepted the prize as he revealed that director and writer Quentin Tarantino told him he would be representing the cast and crew on the grand stage as he said: 'Quentin is nothing if unpredictable. A few seconds ago he told me I was going to speak.' Tarantino also won for Best Screenplay earlier in the night. Once Upon A Time In Hollywood tells the story of TV star Rick Dalton (DiCaprio) and his longtime stunt double Cliff Booth (Pitt), who make their way around an industry they hardly recognize anymore.  Joaquin Phoenix earned Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama for his role in highest box office earning R-rated film of all-time: Joker. The 45-year-old actor showed that he still has a penchant for mischief as he kept the censors busy with his profanity-laden acceptance speech which began: 'Contrary to popular belief, I don't want to rock the boat. But the boat is f***ing rocked!' He went on to address the fires in Australia and ongoing climate crisis as he urged Hollywood to do better like 'not taking privates to Palm Springs.'  Phoenix then got choked up while mentioning longtime girlfriend Rooney Mara and those in attendance as he ended his speech: 'Rooney, I love you. I'm so grateful for this night and all of you. Thank you.' He beat out Christian Bale (Ford v Ferrari), Antonio Banderas (Pain and Glory), Adam Driver (Marriage Story), and Jonathan Pryce (The Two Popes). Of course Joker follows mentally troubled comedian Arthur Fleck who is mistreated by society leading him into a downward spiral with the eventual path of becoming his supervillian alter-ego. Laura Dern was also a big winner as she won Best Actress in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture for her role in Netflix's A Marriage Story.  The 52-year-old actress beat out top-tier talent including Jennifer Lopez who has received plenty of buzz for her role in Hustlers along with Margot Robbie (Bombshell), Kathy Bates (Richard Jewell), and Annette Bening (The Report).  She said: 'Thank you, Hollywood Foreign Press. My first time I was here I was 14 years old. 'It's a great honor to be with you tonight and to share this evening with extraordinary fellow actors who I so admire. Thank you for your incredible work. We long to be of service to give voice to the voiceless. And thanks to the brilliant Noah Baumbach, I got to do just that. Give voice, pay tribute, to the divorce lawyer. Long, long overdue.'  In Marriage Story, Dern plays Nora - the fiery divorce lawyer who represents Scarlett Johansson's character Nicole in her divorce from Adam Driver’s Charlie.  Sam Mendes' war epic 1917 was the top winner in the dramatic film categories as it earned the last award of the night: Best Motion Picture – Drama. The film that follows two young British soldiers during the First World War who were given an impossible mission beat out critically-acclaimed films: The Irishman, Marriage Story, Joker, and The Two Popes. British filmmaker Mendes, 53, also won Best Director – Motion Picture earlier in the night.  Awkwafina and Taron Egerton earned Best Actress and Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy, respectively.  The 31-year-old Chinese/Korean-American actress - real name Nora Lum - won for her role in The Farewell as she made history as the first performer of Asian descent to win a Golden Globe Award in a lead actress film category. She won the category over: Ana de Armas (Knives Out), Cate Blanchett (Where’d You Go, Bernadette), Beanie Feldstein (Booksmart), and Emma Thompson (Late Night). Awkwafina showed of her signature comedic charm as she began her speech by deadpanning: 'This is great.' She then clutched onto her shiny new trophy and joked: 'If I fall upon hard times I could sell this, so that's good.' The Farewell follows a Chinese family who discovers their grandmother only has a short time to live and decide to keep her in the dark while scheduling a wedding to gather before she dies.  Taron, 30, won for his portrayal of Elton John in biopic Rocketman. The film is a musical fantasy about Elton's breakthrough years. He reigned victorious over talents including: Daniel Craig (Knives Out), Roman Griffin Davis (Jojo Rabbit), Leonardo DiCaprio (Once Upon a Time in Hollywood), and Eddie Murphy (Dolemite Is My Name). He dedicated the win to the legendary 72-year-old Tiny Dancer hitmaker as he said: 'To Elton John, thank you for the music, thank you for living a life less ordinary, and thank you for being my friend.' Phoebe Waller-Bridge was also one of the biggest winners of the night on the television end as she took home two top awards for Fleabag.  As former US President Barack Obama recently put the BBC/Amazon show on his list of favorite movies and music of 2019, the 34-year-old British star made a hilarious joke for fans while accepting one of the top honors of the night; Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy. During her speech, she referenced a racy scene from the first season of the groundbreaking series in which her character masturbated to Obama delivering a keynote speech to Parliament in 2011. She said: 'Personally, I'd like to thank Obama for putting us on his list and as some of you may know, he's always been on mine. And if you don't get that joke, watch season one of Fleabag really, really quickly! Thank you so much.' It was yet another milestone night for the star as Waller-Bridge also earned Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy for the comedy series. During that speech, the star paid tribute to co-star Andrew Scott when she first hit the podium to accept her award.  After celebrating with a kiss on the cheek during the announcement, the writer, director and actress dedicated the win to Scott as she joked that the 43-year-old Irish actor; 'could have chemistry with a pebble.' She said: 'Oh my God. Thank you so much to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association for this, it’s really heavy and cool. 'This really comes down to Andrew Scott really because that man, there was a lot of talk about the chemistry between us in the show but he could have chemistry with a pebble and Id loved being Andrew’s pebble in this, thanks for bringing so much fire to this season.'  She faced heavy-competition including: Christina Applegate (Dead to Me), Rachel Brosnahan (The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel), Kirsten Dunst (On Becoming a God in Central Florida), and Natasha Lyonne (Russian Doll). Waller-Bridge portrays the titular character in the groundbreaking series - which she adapted from an award-winning play - as it follows a young woman trying to cope with life in London while coming to terms with a recent tragedy.  It was a big night for the Fleabag family as Olivia Colman earned Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series – Drama for The Crown.  The 45-year-old British actress - who portrays Queen Elizabeth II in the Netflix series  - beat out heavy competition including Killing Eve's Jodie Comer, Big Little Lies star Nicole Kidman, and Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon who both star in The Morning Show.  She said: 'For the last year I feel like I've been living someone else's life and now I feel like I'm winning someone else's award.'  Michelle Williams delivered a spine-tingling speech on the right to choose at the 2020 Golden Globe Awards leaving her best friend Busy Philipps in tears. After collecting the Best Performance by an Actress in a Limited Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television award for her role in Fosse/Verdon, the pregnant actress spoke about abortion as she said the right to choose had enabled her to thrive in her career. 'I've tried my very best to live a life of my own making and not just a series of events that happened to me, but one that I can stand back and look at and recognize my handwriting all over,' she told the audience in Los Angeles, California on Sunday. 'Sometimes, messy and scrawling, sometimes careful and precise. But one that I had carved with my own hand, and I wouldn't have been able to do this without employing a woman's right to choose.' Delivering a wider plea for women to vote in the 2020 election, she said: 'Women, 18 to 118, when it comes time to vote, vote in your own self-interest. It's what men have been doing for years, which is why the world looks so much like them. But don't forget, we are the largest voting body in this country. Let's make it look more like us.' Williams - who has 14-year-old daughter Matilda with late actor Heath Ledger - spoke as her best friend actress Busy Philipps - who had an abortion when she was 15 - wiped away tears. The Blue Valentine star won over Kaitlyn Dever (Unbelievable), Joey King (The Act), Helen Mirren (Catherine the Great), and Merritt Wever (Unbelievable). Earlier in the night, Russell Crowe was absent as he was announced as the winner of the Best Performance by an Actor in a Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television award. Then 55-year-old actor was given the honor for his work portraying controversial Fox News executive Roger Ailes in Showtime limited series The Loudest Voice. However he opted not to attend the gala as he stayed in Australia, where he has lived most of his life, to aid with the wildfires that have ravaged the country. He did, however, send a very pointed statement about climate change which presenter Jennifer Aniston read.  It said: 'Make no mistake. The tragedy unfolding in Australia is climate change-based. We need to act based on science, move our global workforce to renewable energy and respect our planet for the unique & amazing place it is.' Australia's wildfires have burned about 12.35 million acres of land and destroyed over 1,400 homes.  The death toll has reached 24 people.   Crowe was up against against Sam Rockwell (Fosse/Verdon), Christopher Abbott (Catch-22), Jared Harris (Chernobyl) and Sacha Baron Cohen (The Spy).  In seven-part limited series, The Loudest Voice, Crowe portrayed the now-late Ailes who founded Fox News and focuses on the decade in which he arguably became the Republican Party's de facto leader and sexual harassment accusations which eventually brought his career to and end.  Succession was named Best Television Series - Drama. The HBO series beat out competition from Big Little Lies, The Crown, Killing Eve, and The Morning Show to take the coveted honor at the annual ceremony. Showrunner Jesse Armstrong by a number of members of cast and crew of the show but gave thanks on behalf of the whole team as he said: 'Thank you very much, to the HFPA, to HBO for their tremendous support. 'For everyone else working on the show, it's a TV show and I'm here as a representative to represent all of us, so if you've ever appeared on the call sheet or titles of Succession, congratulations, we've won a Golden Globe.' Stellan Skarsgård earned  Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television for his work on HBO limited series Chernobyl.  The 68-year-old Swedish actor cut his speech short as he paid tribute to the make-up artist who created his eyebrows as quipped: '"Stellan, I’ve seen so many films with you but I never remember your face." And I realised it was because I don’t have any eyebrows, nobody can tell if I’m angry or surprised, it’s not like Colin Farrell. You can tell if he's angry 20 miles away. So for this film, Daniel Park made a couple of eyebrows for me and...' Ramy Yusef was the first to earn a win at the event as he was presented Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy for his work in Hulu series Ramy.  The first-time nominee joked he was not only unrecognizable to anyone in the audience, but his mother had wanted him to lose to The Kominsky Method's Michael Douglas, who was also on the shortlist alongside Barry's Bill Hader, Paul Rudd (Living With Yourself), and Ben Platt (The Politician).  Director and writer Bong Joon Ho accepted Best Motion Picture, Foreign Language for Parasite  Tom Hanks and Ellen DeGeneres also received special honors for their work in their respective fields. Hanks, 63, earned the Cecil B. DeMille Award which is an accolade for the film industry and was presented by Charlize Theron. He has won four Golden Globes including for his acting in Big, Philadelphia, and Forrest Gump along with his directing for HBO miniseries Band Of Brothers. The most touching moment of his speech came when he got choked up while talking about how much he loves his family including wife  of 32-years, Rita Wilson, as he called himself: 'A man is blessed with a family sitting down in front like that. 'A wife who is fantastic in every way, who has taught me what love is. Five kids who are braver and stronger and wiser than their old man is. And a loving group of people who have put up with me being away for months and months and months at a time. I can’t tell you how much your love means to me.' DeGeneres, 61, earned the Carol Burnett Award - presented by Kate McKinnon - which is the television equivalent of the DeMille Award but focuses on television.  The talk show host has won multiple Emmys and nominated for three Golden Globes. She has hosted her talk show - The Ellen DeGeneres Show - since 2003.  Ellen turned up her comedic charm as she joked: 'It's a prestigious award, and what I like most about it is I knew coming in I would win. 'There's nothing worse than sitting there and, like most of you, waiting and wondering if you're going to win.' Ricky Gervais opened up the show with his signature controversial brand of comedy as he blasted 'woke' Hollywood for being hypocritical and told them to 'collect your award and f**k off.' During his monologue, Gervais makes a pointed remark about Jeffrey Epstein while comparing the Netflix show Afterlife to the three-hour long award ceremony. '[Afterlife] is a show about a man who wants to kill himself because his wife died of cancer and it's still more fun than this. Spoiler alert, season two is on the way so he didn't kill himself...just like Jeffrey Epstein,' he said to the gasping audience. 'Shut up,' he says, 'I know he's your friend, but I don't care.' Gervais then cautioned the star-studded crowd against making their acceptance speeches political. 'You say you're woke, but the companies you work for are unbelievable. Apple, Amazon, Disney - If ISIS started a streaming service you'd call your agent wouldn't you. So if you do win an award tonight don't use it as a platform to make a political speech, he said. He also claimed that Apple, who began their streaming site this year, used 'sweatshops' to make produce their products. 'You're in no position to lecture the public about anything. You know nothing about the real world. Most of you spent less time in school than Greta Thunberg. So if you win, come up, accept your little award, thank your agent and your god and then f**k off.' Gervais' joke was met with laughter, but may have ruffled Apple's Tim Cook as the CEO sat in the audience Sunday night.  It is the fifth time the 58-year-old comedian has emceed the gala as he has done previously from 2010 to 2012 and once again in 2016.         TELEVISION Best Performance by an Actor in a Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Christopher Abbott, Catch-22 Sacha Baron Cohen, The Spy Russell Crowe, The Loudest Voice - WINNER Jared Harris, Chernobyl Sam Rockwell, Fosse/Verdon Best Performance by an Actress in a Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Kaitlyn Dever, Unbelievable Joey King, The Act,  Helen Mirren, Catherine the Great Merritt Wever, Unbelievable Michelle Williams, Fosse/Verdon - WINNER Best Television Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Catch-22, Hulu Chernobyl, HBO - WINNER Fosse/Verdon, FX The Loudest Voice, Showtime Unbelievable, Netflix Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Alan Arkin Kieran Culkin, Succession Andrew Scott, Fleabag Stellan Skarsgård, Chernobyl - WINNER Henry Winkler, Barry Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy Barry, HBO Fleabag, Amazon - WINNER The Kominsky Method, Netflix The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, Amazon The Politician, Netflix Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Patricia Arquette, The Act - WINNER Helena Bonham Carter, The Crown Toni Collette, Unbelievable Meryl Streep, Big Little Lies Emily Watson, Chernobyl Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy Michael Douglas, The Kominsky Method Bill Hader, Barry  Ben Platt, The Politician Paul Rudd, Living with Yourself Ramy Youssef, Ramy - WINNER Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy Christina Applegate, Dead to Me Rachel Brosnahan, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel Kirsten Dunst, On Becoming a God in Central Florida Natasha Lyonne, Russian Doll Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Fleabag - WINNER Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Drama Brian Cox, Succession - WINNER Kit Harington, Game of Thrones Rami Malek, Mr. Robot Tobias Menzies, The Crown Billy Porter, Pose Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series – Drama Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show Olivia Colman, The Crown - WINNER Jodie Comer, Killing Eve Nicole Kidman, Big Little Lies Reese Witherspoon, The Morning Show  Best Television Series – Drama Big Little Lies, HBO The Crown, Netflix Killing Eve, BBC America The Morning Show, Apple TV Plus Succession, HBO - WINNER  FILM Best Motion Picture – Foreign Language The Farewell, A24 Pain and Glory, Sony Portrait of a Lady on Fire, Pyramide Films Les Misérables, BAC Films, Amazon  Parasite, CJ Entertainment - WINNER  Best Original Score – Motion Picture Daniel Pemberton, Motherless Brooklyn Alexandre Desplat, Little Women Hildur Guðnadóttir, Joker - WINNER Thomas Newman, 1917 Randy Newman, Marriage Story  Best Original Song – Motion Picture Beautiful Ghosts, Cats  (I’m Gonna) Love Me Again, Rocketman - WINNER Into the Unknown, Frozen II Spirit, The Lion King Stand Up, Harriet  Best Actor in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture Tom Hanks, A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood Anthony Hopkins, The Two Popes Al Pacino, The Irishman Joe Pesci, The Irishman Brad Pitt, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood - WINNER Best Actress in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture Kathy Bates, Richard Jewell Annette Bening, The Report Laura Dern, Marriage Story - WINNER Jennifer Lopez, Hustlers Margot Robbie, Bombshell Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy Daniel Craig, Knives Out Roman Griffin Davis, Jojo Rabbit Leonardo DiCaprio, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Taron Egerton, Rocketman - WINNER Eddie Murphy, Dolemite Is My Name Best Screenplay Noah Baumbach, Marriage Story Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won, Parasite Anthony McCarten, The Two Popes Quentin Tarantino, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood - WINNER Steven Zaillian, The Irishman Best Motion Picture – Animated Frozen II, Disney How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World, Universal Missing Link, United Artists Releasing Toy Story 4, Disney The Lion King, Disney Best Director – Motion Picture Bong Joon-ho, Parasite Sam Mendes, 1917 - WINNER Todd Phillips, Joker Martin Scorsese, The Irishman Quentin Tarantino, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood  Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama Christian Bale, Ford v Ferrari Antonio Banderas, Pain and Glory Adam Driver, Marriage Story Joaquin Phoenix, Joker - WINNER Jonathan Pryce,  The Two Popes Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy Awkwafina, The Farewell - WINNER Ana de Armas, Knives Out Cate Blanchett, Where’d You Go, Bernadette Beanie Feldstein, Booksmart Emma Thompson, Late Night Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama Cynthia Erivo, Harriet Scarlett Johansson, Marriage Story Saoirse Ronan, Little Women Charlize Theron, Bombshell Renée Zellweger, Judy - WINNER Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Sony - WINNER Jojo Rabbit, Fox Searchlight Knives Out, Lionsgate Rocketman, Paramount Dolemite Is My Name, Netflix Best Motion Picture – Drama The Irishman, Netflix Marriage Story, Netflix 1917, Universal - WINNER Joker, Warner Bros. The Two Popes, Netflix   
