{ By Marlene Lenthang and Leah Mcdonald For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:54, 5 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7853121/Last-minute-reprieve-family-girl-coma-appeals-court-rules-stay-life-support.html }
A Texas mother who has been fighting to keep her seriously ill daughter alive will have more time with her after a ruling allowing a hospital to take the girl off life support was delayed.   The Second Court of Appeals in Fort Worth ordered Cook Children's Medical Center to not remove 11-month-old Tinslee Lewis from life support until it makes a final ruling in the case.  The appeals court did not immediately schedule any hearings in the case. Tinslee was born prematurely in February with severe medical problems including a rare heart defect called Ebstein's anomaly, chronic lung disease and severe chronic high blood pressure, that ultimately led doctors at Cook Children's Medical Center in Fort Worth to decide to pull her life support.  Before this, a judge had ruled Thursday to remove her from life support, siding with doctors who decided to end her care, saying the child was in pain, is not forecast to improve, and will likely die within the next six months.     Trinity Lewis had asked Judge Sandee Bryan Marion to issue an injunction in Tarrant County district court.  Kimberlyn Schwartz, a spokeswoman for Texas Right to Life, an anti-abortion group that's advocating for Tinslee, said her organization was 'grateful and relieved' the appeals court had granted the emergency stay. She said the court's action would give her group more time to contact doctors and hospitals who could treat Tinslee. 'This gives us so much hope for Tinslee,' Schwartz said. 'This is a prayer answered.' A spokeswoman for Cook Children's Medical Center did not immediately return an email seeking comment Friday evening.    In her decision, Judy Sandee Bryan Marion said the seven-day period would give the girl's mother time to file a notice of appeal and a motion for emergency relief with the state court of appeals.  According to the hospital, Tinslee went into respiratory arrest in early July and has been attached to a ventilator every since and requires full respiratory and cardiac support, deep sedation and to be medically paralyzed.  The hospital said doctors believe she's suffering.  Doctors at the Fort Worth hospital had planned to remove Tinslee from life support on November 10 after invoking the '10-day rule', which can be employed when a family disagrees with doctors when they agree life-sustaining treatment should be stopped.  The law stipulates that if the hospital's ethics committee agrees with doctors, treatment can be withdrawn after 10 days if a new provider can't be found to take the patient.   Hospital officials have said they reached out to more than 20 facilities to see if one would take Tinslee, but all agreed that further care is futile. Groups including Texas Right to Life have also been trying to find a facility to take her.  In a hearing last month Trinity Lewis said she believed her daughter would continue to fight for her life.  She described her daughter as 'sassy' and says she has a sense of the girl's likes and dislikes. Tinslee enjoys the animated musical Trolls and cries when it ends, the mother said. She added that Tinslee doesn't like to have her hair brushed.  'I want to be the one to make the decision for her,' Lewis said about removing her daughter from life support. At the hearing last month, Dr. Jay Duncan, one of Tinslee's physicians, described the girl's complex conditions and Cook Children's efforts to treat her, which have included about seven surgeries and three open heart operations.  The cardiac intensive care doctor said that for the first five months of Tinslee's life doctors had hope she might one day at least be able to go home. But Duncan said there came a point when doctors determined they had run out of surgical and clinical options, and that treatment was no longer benefiting Tinslee.  Duncan said last month that the girl would likely die within half a year, and noted the hospital has made 'extraordinary' efforts to find another facility for her. 'She is in pain. Changing a diaper causes pain. Suctioning her breathing tube causes pain. Being on the ventilator causes pain,' he said. Duncan said there had been 'many, many' conversations with Tinslee's family about her dire condition. 'We care a lot about Tinslee,' Duncan said. 'We care a lot about her family.' Tarrant County Juvenile Court Judge Alex Kim issued a temporary restraining order to stop the removal of life support on November 10. But Kim was removed from the case after the hospital filed a motion questioning his impartiality and saying he had bypassed case-assignment rules to designate himself as the presiding judge. After his removal, Judge Marion, who is chief justice of Texas' Fourth Court of Appeals, was assigned to hear the request for an injunction in Tarrant County district court. Cook Children's said hospital officials had been talking to Tinslee's family for months about concerns for her long-term survival. By August, the hospital said, everyone on the girl's care team agreed that further care was futile and by September they had begun talking to the family about withdrawing life support.  With the doctors and her family still unable to resolve their differences, the ethics committee met October 30 and unanimously decided further treatment was inappropriate. 
