{ By Ariel Zilber For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  00:49, 3 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7846829/More-200-Republicans-Congress-want-Supreme-Court-overturn-Roe-v-Wade.html }
Most Republicans in Congress want the Supreme Court to make abortion illegal as it prepares to hear its first major case on the issue since President Trump appointed two conservative justices to the bench. More than 200 members of the Senate and House of Representatives - all but two of them Republicans - want the Supreme Court to revisit Roe v Wade, the landmark 1973 decision which made abortion legal in the United States. Thirty-nine senators and 168 House members submitted an amicus brief to the court as it prepares to hear the case of June Medical Services LLC v. Gee. The case is an appeal filed by a Louisiana clinic challenging a state law requiring doctors who perform abortions to have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital. The high court is scheduled to hear arguments on the case beginning in March. A decision is expected by the end of June.  The 2014 law is virtually identical to one in Texas that the Supreme Court struck down in 2016, when Justice Anthony Kennedy was on the bench and before the addition of President Donald Trump’s two high court picks, Justices Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh, who have shifted the court to the right. Swing vote Chief Justice John Roberts George W. Bush appointee. Voted in favor of abortion restrictions until Justice Anthony Kennedy left the bench. In only abortion case since then, voted to provisionally block new restrictions in Louisiana. As swing justice, seen as wanting to avoid the Supreme Court being associated with entrenched political positions. Could do his best to avoid a Roe v. Wade challenge coming to the court. Position if one did is now unclear Liberal wing Stephen Breyer Clinton appointee. Warned in May that that the conservative majority could overturn a 1992 decision upholding Roe v. Wade. Has consistently voted pro-choice Elena Kagan Obama appointee. Has consistently voted pro-choice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg Clinton appointee. Has consistently voted pro-choice  Sonia Sotomayor Obama appointee. Has consistently voted pro-choice Conservative wing Clarence Thomas George H.W. Bush appointee. Said this year that Roe v. Wade was 'notoriously incorrect' and compared it to Dred Scott, the case which upheld slavery before the Civil War. Has consistently voted for anti-abortion positions Samuel Alito George W. Bush appointee. As a federal appeal judge, he voted to uphold a Pennsylvania law which required women to tell their husbands they planned to have an abortion. As Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey, his ruling was overturned in the Supreme Court the next year, in a ruling Stephen Breyer says could be overturned itself. Has consistently voted for anti-abortion positions Neil Gorsuch Trump appointee. Only vote on abortion-related case was in February, on whether to block restrictions on clinics in Louisiana pending a full appeal. Gorsuch voted for them to go into place but the block was kept in place by Roberts voting with the liberal wing. Federal court career has no abortion votes. Seen as likely to vote for anti-abortion positions Brett Kavanaugh Trump appointee. Like Gorsuch, only vote on abortion-related case was in February, on whether to block restrictions on clinics in Louisiana pending a full appeal, when he joined Gorsuch in losing minority. As federal appeal court judge had one significant abortion vote, against allowing a 17-year-old illegal immigrant in detention to seek a termination without delay. Seen as likely to vote for anti-abortion positions     If the law is allowed to be implemented, that means it would leave Louisiana without any functioning abortion clinics, according to CBS News. Members of Congress said in their brief that the court should consider overturning Roe as well as a 1992 decision, Casey v Planned Parenthood, which upheld the basic principle of Roe but allowed for greater abortion restrictions. The signatories of the amicus brief say that the Louisiana case ‘illustrates the unworkability of the “right to abortion” found in Roe v Wade…and the need for the Court to take up the issue of whether Roe and Casey should be reconsidered and, if appropriate, overruled.’ Among those who signed the brief include Senators Mitt Romney of Utah; Ted Cruz of Texas; and Marco Rubio of Florida. Thirteen Republican senators declined to sign the letter. Eight of them, including Cory Gardner of Colorado, Susan Collins of Maine, and Martha McSally of Arizona, are set to run this year in very competitive races for re-election. Four of the 39 senators and 8 of the 168 representatives who signed the letter are women. The only two Democrats who signed on to the brief are Congressmen Dan Lipinski of Illinois and Collin Peterson of Minnesota. Lipinski, a conservative Democrat who represents a safe blue district, is facing a primary challenge from a more liberal opponent, Marie Newman, who is receiving support from pro-choice groups like EMILY’s List and Planned Parenthood Action Fund. Peterson, who is also a conservative Democrat, was one of two Democrats to vote against both counts of impeachment against President Trump. The Supreme Court temporarily blocked the Louisiana law from taking effect last February, when Chief Justice John Roberts joined the court’s four liberal justices to put it on hold. Kavanaugh and Gorsuch were among the four conservatives who would have allowed the law to take effect. Those preliminary votes do not bind the justices when they undertake a thorough review of an issue, but they often signal how a case will come out. Roberts’ vote to block the Louisiana law was a rare vote against an abortion restriction in his more than 13 years as chief justice. That may reflect his new role since Kennedy’s retirement as the court’s swing justice, his concern about the court being perceived as a partisan institution and respect for a prior decision of the court, even one he disagreed with. In the Texas case, he voted in dissent to uphold the admitting privileges requirement. The Louisiana case and a separate appeal over an Indiana ultrasound requirement for women seeking an abortion involve the standard first laid out by the court in 1992 that while states can regulate abortion, they can’t do things that place an ‘undue burden’ on a woman’s right to an abortion. The regulations are distinct from other state laws making their way through court challenges that would ban abortions early in a pregnancy.  In 1973, the U.S. Supreme Court recognized a woman's constitutional right to an abortion in Roe v. Wade. The landmark ruling legalized abortion nationwide but divided public opinion and has been under attack ever since.  The case was filed in 1971 by Norma McCorvey, a 22-year-old living in Texas who was unmarried and seeking a termination of her unwanted pregnancy.  Because of state legislation preventing abortions unless the mother's life is at risk, she was unable to undergo the procedure in a safe and legal environment. So McCorvey sued Henry Wade, the Dallas county district attorney, in 1970. The case went on to the Supreme Court, under the filing Roe vs Wade, to protect McCorvey's privacy. Supreme Court Decision The Supreme Court handed down the watershed 7-2 decision that a woman's right to make her own medical decisions, including the choice to have an abortion, is protected under the 14th Amendment.  In particular, that the Due Process Clause of the the 14th Amendment provides a fundamental 'right to privacy' that protects a woman's liberty to choose whether or not to have an abortion. The landmark ruling saw abortions decriminalized in 46 states, but under certain specific conditions which individual states could decide on. For example, states could decide whether abortions were allowed only during the first and second trimester but not the third (typically beyond 28 weeks).  Impact  Among pro-choice campaigners, the decision was hailed as a victory which would mean fewer women would become seriously - or even fatally - ill from abortions carried out by unqualified or unlicensed practitioners. Moreover, the freedom of choice was considered a significant step in the equality fight for women in the country. Victims of rape or incest would be able to have the pregnancy terminated and not feel coerced into motherhood. However, pro-lifers contended it was tantamount to murder and that every life, no matter how it was conceived, is precious. Though the decision has never been overturned, anti-abortionists have prompted hundreds of states laws since then narrowing the scope of the ruling. One such was the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act signed by President George W. Bush in 2003, which banned a procedure used to perform second-trimester abortions.    Norma McCorvey (Jane Roe) Following the ruling, McCorvey lived a quiet life until the 1980s when she revealed herself to be Jane Roe. McCorvey became a leading, outspoken pro-abortion voice in American discourse, even working at a women's clinic where abortions were performed. However,  she performed an unlikely U-turn in 1995, becoming a born again Christian and began traveling the country speaking out against the procedure. In 2003, a she filed a motion to overturn her original 1973 ruling with the U.S. district court in Dallas. The motion moved through the courts until it was ultimately denied by the Supreme Court in 2005. McCorvey died at an assisted living home in Texas in February 2017, aged 69.  'The Heartbeat bill' Multiple governors have signed legislation outlawing abortion if a doctor can detect a so-called 'fetal heartbeat,' part of a concerted effort to restrict abortion rights in states across the country. Under the ban doctors will be prosecuted for flouting the rules. Abortion-rights supporters see the 'heartbeat bills' as virtual bans because 'fetal heartbeats' can be detected as early as six weeks, when women may not be aware they are pregnant. Anti-abortion campaigners have intensified their efforts since Donald Trump was elected president and appointed two conservative justices to the US Supreme Court, hopeful they can convince the right-leaning court to re-examine Roe v. Wade. Georgia, Ohio, Missouri, and Louisiana have enacted 'heartbeat laws' recently, and Alabama passed an even more restrictive version in May, amounting to a near total ban on abortion from the moment of conception. Other states have similar legislation pending. Similar laws has also been passed in Arkansas, Mississippi, North Dakota, Iowa and Kentucky, though they have been blocked by courts from going into effect as legal challenges have been brought against them. 
