{ By Associated Press   Published:  05:06, 2 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7844291/AP-News-Brief-12-04-m-EST.html }
Pentagon says US airstrike killed powerful Iranian general BAGHDAD (AP) - The Pentagon said Thursday that the U.S. military has killed Gen. Qassem Soleimani, the head of Iran압 elite Quds Force, at the direction of President Donald Trump. An airstrike killed Soleimani, architect of Iran's regional security apparatus, at Baghdad압 international airport Friday, Iranian state television and three Iraqi officials said, an attack that's expected to draw severe Iranian retaliation against Israel and American interests. The Defense Department said Soleimani "was actively developing plans to attack American diplomats and service members in Iraq and throughout the region." It also accused Soleimani of approving the attacks on the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad earlier this week. A statement released late Thursday by the Pentagon said the strike on Soleimani "was aimed at deterring future Iranian attack plans." The strike also killed Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, deputy commander of Iran-backed militias in Iraq known as the Popular Mobilization Forces, or PMF, Iraqi officials said. The PMF media arm said the two were killed in an American airstrike that targeted their vehicle on the road to the airport. ___ Trump's plan to curb teen vaping exempts some flavors WASHINGTON (AP) - U.S. health officials will begin cracking down on most flavored e-cigarettes that are popular with underage teenagers, but their plan includes major exceptions that benefit vaping manufacturers, retailers and adults who use the nicotine-delivery devices. The Trump administration announced Thursday that it will prohibit fruit, candy, mint and dessert flavors from small, cartridge-based e-cigarettes favored by high school and middle school students. But menthol and tobacco-flavored e-cigarettes will be allowed to remain on the market. The targeted flavor ban will also entirely exempt large, tank-based vaping devices, which are primarily sold in vape shops that cater to adult smokers. Together, the two exemptions represent a significant retreat from President Donald Trump's original plan announced four months ago, which would have banned all vaping flavors - including menthol - from all types of e-cigarettes. The new policy will spare a significant portion of the multibillion-dollar vaping market. And the changes mark a major victory for thousands of vape shop owners who sell the tank-based systems, which allow users to mix customized nicotine flavors. Vape shop owners expressed relief following the announcement. ___ Video edited to suggest Biden made racist remark A video of Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden that was selectively edited to falsely suggest he made racist remarks during a recent speech made the rounds Thursday on social media, raking in more than a million views on one tweet alone. Experts have been warning about the dangers of selectively edited videos being used as a misinformation tactic ahead of the 2020 presidential election. They are easier to make and do not require the sophisticated technology needed to produce deepfake videos, which are fabricated to look realistic. In the edited clip, which was less than 20 seconds long, Biden says, "Our culture is not imported from some African nation or some Asian nation." Social media users paired the video with comments like "It's almost like Joe Biden is a Racist." Posts with the video surfaced across social media platforms on Wednesday. The clip was taken from ABC News coverage of Biden speaking for more than an hour in Derry, New Hampshire, on Dec. 30, 2019. A review of the full video shows that Biden was commenting on changing the culture around violence against women. In discussing the difficulty victims face reporting sexual assault on college campuses, he said, "Folks, this is about changing the culture, our culture, our culture, it압 not imported from some African nation or some Asian nation. It is our English jurisprudential culture, our European culture that says it is all right." Earlier in the discussion, Biden, when asked about his work with women and sexual assault victims, talked about the need to change an entrenched "cultural problem," that dates back centuries, noting that in the 1300s many wives were being beaten to death by their husbands without repercussions. ___ Backlog of toxic Superfund cleanups grows under Trump WASHINGTON (AP) - The Trump administration has built up the biggest backlog of unfunded toxic Superfund cleanup projects in at least 15 years, nearly triple the number that were stalled for lack of money in the Obama era, according to 2019 figures quietly released by the Environmental Protection Agency over the winter holidays. The accumulation of Superfund projects that are ready to go except for money comes as the Trump administration routinely proposes funding cuts for Superfund and for the EPA in general. The four-decade-old Superfund program is meant to tackle some of the most heavily contaminated sites in the U.S. and Trump has declared it a priority even while seeking to shrink its budget. "There hasn앖 been a sense of urgency," said Violet Donoghue, who has lived for 31 years on Bon Brae Street in St. Clair Shores, Michigan. Toxic PCBs have poisoned some local soil, water and fish at nearby Lake St. Clair, and the neighborhood is one of the 34 Superfund sites where cleanup projects languished for lack of money in 2019. "I feel many people have been harmed, but that압 only my opinion," Donoghue said. She said the last word from the EPA was that soil would be removed from the front of her house. "Now when they say theyre cleaning it, I say, `OK, give me the date,'" she said. The unfunded projects are in 17 states and Puerto Rico. They range from abandoned mines that discharged heavy metals and arsenic in the West to an old wood pulp site in Mississippi and a defunct dry cleaner that released toxic solvents in North Carolina. ___ Lebanon receives Interpol notice for ex-Nissan fugitive BEIRUT (AP) - Interpol issued a wanted notice Thursday for former Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn, who jumped bail in Japan and fled to Lebanon rather than face trial on financial misconduct charges in a dramatic escape that has confounded and embarrassed authorities. Lebanese Justice Minister Albert Serhan told The Associated Press in an interview that Lebanon "will carry out its duties," suggesting for the first time that the automotive titan may be brought in for questioning. But he said Ghosn entered the country on a legal passport, and he appeared to cast doubt on the possibility Lebanon would hand Ghosn over to Japan. The Interpol notice is the latest twist in Ghosn's daring escape, which spanned three continents and involved private planes, multiple passports and international intrigue. Turkey made several arrests Thursday as part of an investigation into how he passed through the country. Ghosn's arrival in Lebanon jolted the nation, already in the midst of a crippling political impasse and its worst economic crisis in decades. Lebanon must now decide how to deal with the Interpol-issued Red Notice, which is a non-binding request to law enforcement agencies worldwide that they locate and provisionally arrest a fugitive. A Red Notice is not an arrest warrant and does not require Lebanon to arrest Ghosn. ___ Poll: White evangelicals distinct on abortion, LGBT policy White evangelical Protestants stand noticeably apart from other religious people on abortion restrictions and LGBT discrimination protections, two of the most politically divisive issues at play in the 2020 presidential election, according to a new poll. The findings point to an evangelical Protestant constituency that압 more firmly aligned with President Donald Trump압 agenda than other Americans of faith. White evangelicals were also more likely than members of other faiths to say religion should have at least some influence on policymaking. Rev. Franklin Graham, son of the late Rev. Billy Graham and one of Trump압 most stalwart evangelical allies, pointed to the president's record on abortion as a key driver of support from his religious community. "I don앖 think evangelicals are united on every position the president takes or says, but they do recognize he is the most pro-life-friendly president in modern history," Graham said in a recent interview. "He has appointed conservative judges that will affect my children and grandchildren압 lives, long after he압 gone." Asked about significant restrictions that would make abortion illegal except in cases of rape, incest or to threats to a mother압 life, 67% of white evangelical Protestants responded in support. Those abortion limits drew 39% support from white mainline Protestants, 33% support from nonwhite Protestants, 45% support from Catholics and 37% of all Americans, according to the poll of more than 1,000 American adults from various faith backgrounds conducted by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. ___ US starts sending asylum seekers across Arizona border PHOENIX (AP) - The U.S. government on Thursday began sending asylum-seekers back to Nogales, Mexico, to await court hearings that will be scheduled roughly 350 miles (563 kilometers) away in Juarez, Mexico. Authorities are expanding a program known as Remain in Mexico that requires tens of thousands of asylum seekers to wait out their immigration court hearings in Mexico. Until this week, the government was driving some asylum seekers from Nogales, Arizona, to El Paso, Texas, so they could be returned to Juarez. Now, asylum-seekers will have to find their own way through dangerous Mexican border roads. About 30 asylum seekers were sent to Nogales, Mexico, on Thursday, said Gilda Loureiro, director of the San Juan Bosco migrant shelter in Nogales, Sonora. Loureiro said the migrants hadn앖 made it to the shelter yet but that it was prepared and has a capacity of about 400. ___ 'Millions of sparks': Weather raises Australia's fire danger SYDNEY (AP) - Navy ships plucked hundreds of people from beaches and tens of thousands were urged to flee Friday before hot weather and strong winds in the forecast worsen Australia's already-devastating wildfires. More than 200 fires were burning, and warnings of extreme danger to come Saturday set in motion one of the largest evacuations in Australian history. Thousands have already fled at-risk coastal areas, creating traffic gridlock in places, and firefighters escorted convoys of evacuees as fires threatened to close roads. Victoria Premier Daniel Andrew declared a disaster across much of the eastern part of the state, allowing the government to order evacuations in an area with as many as 140,000 permanent residents and tens of thousands more vacationers. "If you can leave, you must leave," Andrews said. South Australia state's Country Fire Service chief officer Mark Jones said the weather conditions were cause for concern because some fires were still burning or smoldering. ___ Taiwan grounds Black Hawks after crash killed top personnel TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) - Taiwan grounded its fleet of Black Hawk helicopters after a crash killed the island's top military officer and other prominent personnel. The official Central News Agency said Friday all 52 of the UH-60M aircraft belonging to the air force, army and National Airborne Service Corps have ceased flight operations while they are inspected for any problems with their structural, software, radar and other systems. The one that crashed Thursday morning in forested mountains outside the capital was a model dedicated to search and rescue and had been delivered in 2018, according to the defense ministry. The crash killed eight people including former air force Gen. Shen Yi-ming, who had taken over as chief of the general staff in July. Other victims included both pilots, the deputy head of the Political Warfare Bureau and the deputy chief of the General Staff for Intelligence, while two lieutenant generals and a major general were among the five survivors. Memorial services were being held for those killed, and all three candidates in Jan. 11's presidential election suspended their campaigns to observe a period of mourning. ___ 5 crew members feared dead after Alaska fishing boat sinks JUNEAU, Alaska (AP) - Five fishermen missing after a crab boat sank in the frigid waters off Alaska were feared dead after authorities called off a search for those working in the one of the most dangerous industries in the U.S. Two other crew members were rescued after the disaster Tuesday, telling authorities they were the only ones who made it into a life raft, the Anchorage Daily News reported. Dean Gribble Jr., who's appeared on the Discovery Channel documentary series "Deadliest Catch," and John Lawler suffered hypothermia but have been released from a hospital. The Coast Guard said it used helicopters, planes and a boat to look for the missing crew members for 20 hours before ending the search late Wednesday because they were not likely to have survived. The agency didn't release any details Thursday on what caused the boat to sink, saying that talking to the survivors is part of the investigation. The boat, named the Scandies Rose, was carrying a load of crabbing pots for the start of the winter season, Dan Mattsen, a partner in the vessel managed by Seattle-Based Mattsen Management, told the Seattle Times. 
