{ By Associated Press and Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:41, 30 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7837553/Ex-judicial-candidate-disciplined-anti-Muslim-comments.html }
A retired Florida lawyer and former judicial candidate has been disciplined for making offensive comments on social media about Muslims and the LGBTQ community. Florida Supreme Court, which handles discipline against lawyers and judges, handed Donald McBath a 91-day suspension from practicing law and a fine of more than $1,380 for his Islamophobic and homophobic remarks.  The Florida Bar, which announced the court's decision on Friday, documented 15 objectionable posts that McBath, 61, made on Facebook or Twitter, including 'Never trust a Muslim' and 'Muslims are deranged.'  McBath's other comments addressed LGBTQ people, including: 'Abstain, if you really have that mental illness. It's not love.' A Facebook status update dated February 25 read in part: 'homosexuality is condemned by Jesus and if the homosexual continues committing that sin of sodomy, his soul faces ETERNAL damnation!'   Some of his other screeds decried abortion, while others were supportive of President Donald Trump's travel ban, among them, 'They´re leaches on our system.' As Tampa Bay Times first reported, the Bar also noted McBath's Twitter profile stated: '100% Trump supporter #MAGA; #KAG; proud DEPLORABLE; Pro-God; Christian; Pro-Life; Pro-Gun; Anti-Sharia; Constitutional Conservative; Former Major US Army.' McBath ran for a judgeship last year in the Sixth Judicial Circuit, which comprises Pinellas and Pasco counties and comes with a $160,000-a-year salary. He lost in the primary to former prosecutor Doneene Loar. During his candidacy, McBath told the newspaper the comments were his, but said they wouldn't prevent him from treating a Muslim or LGBTQ citizen fairly if one appeared before him as a judge. 'I absolutely can still be fair no matter what kind of beliefs that I may have,' he told the paper in May 2018.' We all have our own personal beliefs based on what's happened in our lives, and as long as it doesn't interfere with how we treat a person, that's the goal.' According to his biography, McBath is a retired US Army major and Operation Desert Shield veteran who earned his law degree from Western Michigan University's Cooley Law School in 1993. For 25 years, his practice revolved around matrimonial and family law.  Over the course of his career, McBath faced disciplinary actions at least a half-dozen times, including in 2007, when he had his license suspended for 21 days for mishandling a divorce case.  In 2014, he was admonished for threatening a woman with deportation in a cease and desist letter.    
