{ By James Gant For Mailonline   Published:  08:59, 29 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7834197/Ex-Chelsea-star-Thibault-Courtois-fathered-secret-lovechild-former-door-neighbour.html }
Ex-Chelsea goalkeeper Thibault Courtois has fathered a secret lovechild with his married former next-door neighbour and told her to get an abortion if she wanted to move to Spain with him, it has been claimed. The Real Madrid star hooked up with Elsa Izac despite living with his then-girlfriend Marta Dominguez, a friend said. Ms Izac, a fashion designer and mother of four, got to know the shot stopper after receiving parcels for him. She left her husband Jan Francois, a banker, and allegedly got with 27-year-old Courtois up to ten times before matches in the Chelsea team hotel, according to the Daily Star Sunday. Ms Izac got pregnant and claimed the Belgian International told her to get an abortion if she hoped to go to Spain with him in August last year when he signed for Real Madrid for £38million. But the former model gave birth to Enzo in September 2017 and they have reportedly been shunned by Courtois and now live in Wimbledon, south London. A friend said: 'She wants him to acknowledge Enzo is his son publicly. He had never denied to her that he is the father.' 'If ever Elsa had Thibaut's parcels, he would come and ring the bell to say thank you. 'She thought he was so polite. Then he would ask her for coffee and she thought, ''Why not?'' The friend said Ms Izac saw the way Courtois was looking at her and felt uncomfortable due to Ms Dominguez being pregnant at the time. She grew feelings for him after exchanging messages and the goalie moved out of the six-bedroom, £3million house next door. Ms Izac, who is now divorcing her husband, started secretly seeing the ex-Chelsea ace, which was when they would allegedly sleep together in the Chelsea hotel. The pair were not expecting baby Enzo to come along, but the friend said Ms Izac had still been hoping to move to Spain with the footballer. The pal claimed when Courtois was told, he said 'it wasn't good for his career' and 'asked her to have an abortion'. The friend added that they split when Ms Izac was five months pregnant after he gave her the choice of between him and the baby. The Daily Star Sunday tried to contact Courtois. 
