{ By Tim Oglethorpe For Weekend   Published:  22:31, 27 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7824163/Gripping-new-TV-drama-views-Profumo-scandal-eyes-Christine-Keeler.html }
July 1961, and Christine Keeler is emerging from the open-air swimming pool at Lord Astor’s Cliveden estate on the Berkshire-Buckinghamshire border.  Briefly naked as she changes out of her swimsuit, she’s spotted across the pool by John Profumo, the Secretary of State for War.  He smiles and raises his glass of whisky in her direction.  She doesn’t know it yet, but the 19-year-old ex-showgirl who’d worked at Murray’s Cabaret Club in Soho is about to begin her journey into the pages of British history. This is the opening scene in BBC1’s new six-part drama The Trial Of Christine Keeler, and marks the start of the brief affair between the politician and the wannabe actress that would become the biggest scandal of the 20th century.  Not only was Profumo married and 27 years older than Christine, she was also enjoying a dalliance with Yev-geny Ivanov, a Russian naval attaché, at the same time.  When this came to light in 1963, MI5 feared Profumo might have inadvertently passed on military secrets to the Russians via Christine.  Profumo initially denied the affair in a statement to the House of Commons, and when he finally admitted it he was forced to resign.  Attention then turned to the activities of Christine, her best friend from Murray’s Mandy Rice-Davies, and their mentor Stephen Ward, the society osteopath through whom Christine met both Profumo and Ivanov. Until now, the Profumo Affair has been told from either the politician’s point of view or that of Stephen Ward.  But The Trial Of Christine Keeler looks at it through the eyes of the person at the centre of the storm.  ‘We wanted to imagine what it must have been like for Christine to have this attention from the Press, the government and the public,’ says writer Amanda Coe. ‘It’s a great story that’s never been told.’ Sophie Cookson, best known as Roxy in the Kingsman movies, plays Christine, who is certainly no angel.  The show sees her enjoying a relationship with boyfriend Johnny Edgecombe, while fending off another suitor, Jamaican-born jazz singer ‘Lucky’ Gordon.  She tries to seduce Stephen Ward (played by McMafia’s James Norton) while dressed in stockings and suspenders, and is a willing participant in the affair with Profumo (Ben Miles).  But, says Sophie Cookson, Christine doesn’t deserve the reputation that dogged her for the rest of her life. ‘She was labelled a prostitute and there’s no evidence for that,’ she says.  ‘It makes me angry how she’s been denigrated, right up until her death two years ago. I’m delighted this show gives us a chance to tell the truth.’ Writer Amanda Coe spent months trawling through parliamentary records and the National Archive to write her story.  And it paid off, says James Norton.  ‘There’s a scene where Stephen Ward pleads with a member of the government for protection when he fears he’s becoming a scapegoat and faces ruin over a trumped-up charge of living off the immoral earnings of Christine Keeler and Mandy Rice-Davies.  'The dialogue is taken from that conversation, which was recorded and stored in the National Archive.  'And when you see me signing a letter Stephen wrote, we know the text is accurate because we had the letter transcribed from the National Archive.’ Ward, who had an array of powerful clients, was perhaps the most tragic victim of the scandal, taking a fatal overdose while on trial at the Old Bailey.  Others paid a price too, including John Profumo, the ex-war hero whose career ground to a halt.  What he didn’t lose was his marriage to former actress Valerie Hobson, played in the drama by Emilia Fox.  The Silent Witness star says she was angry when she first read how her character had responded to the affair.  ‘I was jumping up and down while researching Valerie, thinking, “Why did she stay with him?” Then I realised it was because she loved him, and, after his withdrawal from public life, she got him to herself again.’ The Trial Of Christine Keeler includes all the most famous elements of the scandal, which ran from that sun-kissed day in July 1961 through to Profumo’s resignation in June 1963 and Ward’s trial.  There’s Profumo’s denial of adultery to the Commons, and the moment in Ward’s trial when Mandy (Ellie Bamber) says, ‘Well, he would, wouldn’t he?’ after being told Lord Astor had denied an affair with her.  Then of course there’s the most memorable element of the story: that photograph. One of the iconic symbols of the Swinging Sixties, it supposedly shows Christine sitting naked on a chair, staring seductively into the lens of Lewis Morley’s camera. Except it wasn’t like that.  According to the Victoria & Albert Museum where the original print of the photo is kept, Christine was at her wits’ end, exhausted by hours of photography to promote a movie about the affair, which never saw the light of day.  And she wasn’t even naked. ‘She was wearing underwear and refused to take it off,’ says Sophie Cookson. ‘The myths are an example of the way she has been misrepresented.’ There were challenges for James Norton too, including long visits to hair and make-up to transform him into Ward, who was more than a decade older than 34-year-old James.  ‘I do worry viewers will think, “What’s happened to James Norton?” when they see the lines on my face and the red under the eyes,’ he laughs. ‘But he was 48 when our story starts and 50 when he died.’ James admits to having mixed feelings about his character. ‘I think he was the most charismatic man, someone people wanted to be around.’ But he isn’t blind to the dark traits that landed him in trouble. ‘He travelled the streets in his car picking up younger women, and had an intimate relationship with Mandy Rice-Davies when she was just 17 and he was in his 40s.  'I think he fell somewhere between exploitation and empowerment. While he introduced women like Christine to a level of society that would have been closed to them, he also used them as a ticket for himself into the Establishment.  'Ultimately, that old boys’ club rejected him when he needed them most.’ When news of Christine’s affair with Profumo broke and she was portrayed as the woman who’d destroyed the politician’s career and possibly his marriage, she was spat at in the street and branded a harlot.  ‘She didn’t deserve that,’ says Sophie Cookson.  ‘She had a difficult life, growing up malnourished in a converted railway carriage in Wiltshire without running water, and she wanted to better herself in London. She became a pawn in a world in which she had no control.’ Others, it seems, did have control. During her research, writer Amanda Coe found a huge amount of material on Profumo, Keeler and Ward had been redacted.  ‘While prime minister in the 1990s, John Major had the chance to review the redactions but kept them in place,’ says producer Rebecca Ferguson.  ‘They won’t disappear for decades.’ Does she have theories as to what might be exposed (Prince Philip knew Stephen Ward, as we saw in The Crown)?  ‘People speculated on set, whether the royals were implicated, or if there were security issues.’ The drama may not shed much fresh light on the Profumo Affair, but Rebecca says, ‘I want it to rattle cages and I hope it changes people’s minds about Christine.  'I hope it creates a debate about the unjust way women were treated then – and how they’re treated now.’  The Trial Of Christine Keeler, tomorrow and Monday, 9pm, BBC1.  Christine Keeler Christine served four-and-a-half months of a nine-month prison sentence for committing perjury by submitting false evidence in the trial of ‘Lucky’ Gordon, who she had accused of attacking her, in 1963.  She subsequently published several accounts of her life, and in one claimed to have become pregnant by Profumo and subsequently had an abortion.  She died from respiratory disease in 2017, aged 75. John Profumo Tipped to be Prime Minister until his affair with Christine Keeler came to light, Profumo later worked as a volunteer at Toynbee Hall, a charity in east London, and became its chief fundraiser.  His charity work was rewarded with a CBE in 1975. The restoration of his reputation was complete in 1995 when he was seated on the Queen’s right at a dinner celebrating the 70th birthday of Margaret Thatcher.  He died, aged 91, in 2006. Mandy Rice-Davies Christine’s best friend from their showgirl days at Murray’s Cabaret Club in Soho in the early 60s married businessman Rafi Shauli in 1966 and moved to Israel, opening nightclubs in Tel Aviv.  She died from cancer, aged 70, in 2014, survived by her third husband, millionaire waste management businessman Ken Foreman. Stephen Ward Ward was convicted of living off immoral earnings at the Old Bailey in 1963, but before the verdict was announced he took an overdose of sleeping pills and died three days later, aged 50.  In 2014, the trial verdict was put under review by the Criminal Cases Review Commission but it was decided not to refer it to the Court of Appeal. Valerie Hobson She had a successful acting career before marrying Profumo, starring as the adult Estella in David Lean’s adaptation of Great Expectations in 1946.  Like her husband, Valerie spent much of her time working for charity after the abrupt conclusion to Profumo’s political career.  A mother of three, she died aged 81 in 1998. 
