abortion
{ By Associated Press   Published:  22:11, 27 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7831385/Mississippi-asks-appeals-court-reconsider-abortion-ruling.html }
JACKSON, Miss. (AP) - Mississippi is asking a federal appeals court to reconsider a ruling that said the state큦 ban on most abortions at 15 weeks of pregnancy is unconstitutional. The ruling was issued Dec. 13 by a panel of three judges on the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, dealing a blow to those seeking to overturn the landmark Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion nationwide. The next day, Republican Gov. Phil Bryant said he wants the state to appeal to the Supreme Court. Papers filed Friday are an in-between step. Mississippi is asking the full 5th Circuit to toss out the panel큦 decision and reconsider the case. Attorneys for the state wrote that the panel's decision conflicted with a Supreme Court ruling in an abortion case "which requires courts to consider not only the burdens a law might impose, but the benefits that it provides." The 5th Circuit panel said U.S. District Judge Carlton Reeves ruled correctly when he blocked the Mississippi law from taking effect in 2018. With the addition of conservative justices to the U.S. Supreme Court in recent years, several states have been enacting laws aimed at spurring court challenges that could eventually seek to overturn the court's 1973 abortion rights ruling in Roe v. Wade. "In an unbroken line dating to Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court큦 abortion cases have established (and affirmed, and re-affirmed) a woman큦 right to choose an abortion before viability," the appeals court judges wrote Dec. 13. "States may regulate abortion procedures prior to viability so long as they do not impose an undue burden on the woman큦 right but they may not ban abortions." The only abortion clinic in Mississippi sued the state after Bryant signed the law. The clinic said it provides abortions until 16 weeks. Mississippi legislators came back in 2019 and passed a more restrictive law to ban most abortions at about six weeks. The same federal district judge blocked that, too, and a legal fight over it continues. The 5th Circuit based in New Orleans handles cases from Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas. It is generally considered one of the most conservative federal appellate courts. Attorneys representing Mississippi had argued that the 15-week law was a regulation but not a ban, and that states are allowed to regulate abortion. A central question in the case is about viability - whether a fetus can survive outside the woman at 15 weeks. The clinic presented evidence that viability is impossible at 15 weeks, and the appeals court said that the state "conceded that it had identified no medical evidence that a fetus would be viable at 15 weeks." "If the Act is a regulation, then the State큦 interests should have been considered," the appeals court wrote. "Prohibitions on pre-viability abortions, however, are unconstitutional regardless of the State큦 interests because `a State may not prohibit any woman from making the ultimate decision to terminate her pregnancy before viability." The appeals court was quoting a U.S. Supreme Court ruling about the "ultimate decision" to terminate a pregnancy. When Reeves ruled in November 2018 that the Mississippi law is unconstitutional, he wrote that the "established medical consensus" is that viability typically begins at 23 to 24 weeks after the pregnant woman's last menstrual period. The Mississippi law would allow exceptions to the 15-week ban in cases of medical emergency or severe fetal abnormality. Doctors found in violation of the ban would face mandatory suspension or revocation of their medical license. Reeves' ruling on the Mississippi law put a similar law in Louisiana on hold. The 15-week abortion ban signed by Louisiana Democratic Gov. John Bel Edwards in 2018 included a provision that the law would take effect only if a federal court upholds Mississippi's 15-week ban. ____ Follow Emily Wagster Pettus on Twitter: http://twitter.com/EWagsterPettus 
