abortion
{ By Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:09, 24 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7824793/Former-Trump-campaign-aide-SUES-saying-bosses-sidelined-told-pregnant.html }
A former aide for Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign alleged pregnancy and sex discrimination in a new lawsuit filed in a Manhattan court Monday against Trump and his campaign. A.J. Delgado, who says the father of her child is former Trump campaign's senior communications adviser Jason Miller, 43, insists in the filing she was sidelined shortly after she told senior campaign officials that she was pregnant Delgado, 42, served as a spokeswoman and outreach staffer for the campaign, and in the filing she named Trump's transition organization, Trump for America (TFA), and former Trump aides Sean Spicer, Reince Priebus and Steven Bannon as defendants in the case. The new lawsuit makes only a small reference that Delgado's child, who was born July 2017, was fathered by a married senior campaign staffer. 'In mid-November 2016, Plaintiff DELGADO learned that she became pregnant by her supervisor, Jason Miller,' the lawsuit reads about halfway through. 'Plaintiff informed Miller, who told her that she could not be seen 'waddling around the White House pregnant.' Delgado informed senior campaign officials of her pregnancy in late December 2016, and in the lawsuit claims she was soon after pushed out. 'Defendant SPICER discouraged Plaintiff from pursuing White House employment due to her status as a pregnant woman and a first-time mother,' the lawsuit alleges of former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer. The filing also claims Spice told Delgado that the 'White House is 'no place for a new mom,' adding that he told her about the 'long hours and serious commitment required of a White House job.' 'During the December 26, 2016 call, Defendant SPICER tried to persuade Plaintiff DELGADO to focus on options outside of the White House,' the lawsuit reads. 'Immediately after Plaintiff DELGADO announced her pregnancy,' it continues, 'the Campaign and TFA, including SPICER, BANNON and PRIEBUS, Plaintiff's supervisors, stripped Plaintiff of her job responsibilities and duties throughout for the remainder of her employment from late December 6 of 2016 and through the Inauguration in late January of 2017.' After this, Delgado stopped receiving emails, including regarding projects she was working on at the time. Even though Delgado is a Harvard Law educated attorney who practiced in New York City, she filed the lawsuit through Derek Smith Law Group, which has a team of 27 lawyers who specialize in sexual harassment and discrimination lawsuit. 'No Fee Unless We Recover,' it advertises on its website. The new lawsuit adds to a growing pile of litigation in relation to Miller and Delgado's affair. Miller filed a libel lawsuit in 2018 against Splinter, a website that cited Delgado's claims during a paternity proceeding that he slipping an abortion pill to another woman he had an extramarital affair with. A federal judge ruled against Miller's lawsuit in August, but that decision is being appealed. The campaign also filed arbitration against Delgado to stop her from publicly speaking about her role in the campaign. Miller was asked by Trump to be his White House communications director, but he withdrew his name from consideration after reports of his affair with Delgado emerged. He was working as a commentator for CNN after his White House job fell through, but ended up parting ways with the network in September 2018 after the Splinter report came out. Miller adamantly denies that he slipped an abortion pill to a stripper after impregnating her. He did admit in sworn testimony made public over the summer that he paid for sex with prostitutes and visited 'Asian-themed' 'rub and tug' massage parlors. Just weeks after Delgado announced she was pregnant and was pushed out of her position with the campaign and transition team, Miller's wife Kelly – who is still married to the former Trump aide – gave birth to their second child in January 2017. Delgado said that she became pregnant after she and Miller went out to a Las Vegas strip club, along with members of the media, the night before Trump's final debate against Hillary Clinton in late October. 
