{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  01:36, 24 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7823577/Church-leaders-concern-dark-times.html }
Church leaders have used their annual Christmas messages to voice their concerns about the "dark times" confronting many Australians. Drought, corruption, political inaction on climate change and natural disasters were highlighted as Australia's religious leaders urged the nation to look past the "darkness" and find hope in the Christmas message. "In Australia and around the world there is an air of uncertainty and anxiety as we move to the end of this year ... The star leads us to the light," Brisbane's Catholic Archbishop Mark Coleridge says. Archbishop Coleridge pointed to populist ideology, the inhuman treatment of refugees and inaction on climate change "which brings droughts and fires" as he called on the nation's political leaders to do more. "All this and more shows how shadowed the planet is at this time," he said. The sentiments were echoed by Anglican Archbishop Phillip Aspinall, who warned the tough times won't "disappear immediately" as he lamented the changing climate and corporate greed. "Drought is threatening lives and livelihoods and causing great suffering for families ... There's the darkness of institutions that are failing us, including banks," he said. Failed aged and disability care providers were also singled out. "No matter how hard we try, we can't seem to root out the darkness of corruption ... (but) the child born in Bethlehem promises a new future," the archbishop said. Presbyterian Reverend Dr Peter Barnes says for many Australians confronted by society's widespread acceptance of abortion, euthanasia and same-sex relationships, the world feels as if it has "tilted on its axis". "Who is ruling 'on Earth as it is in heaven'?" he asked. Sydney Catholic Archbishop Anthony Fisher urged people to remember there is "greatness in all of us" as he called for more action to support families affected by bushfires and drought. "Every human being matters ... Christmas tells us we are valued ... Each one of us is precious and irreplaceable," he said. Archbishop Fisher also voiced his concerns over the recent decriminalisation of abortion in NSW and systemic problems in the aged care and disability sectors. He also highlighted changing euthanasia laws, ongoing detention of refugees and the persecution of Christians as he called for the nation to pray for peace. 
