{ By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  12:25, 18 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7805097/Israel-Folau-make-rugby-league-comeback-settlement-Wallabies-sacking.html }
The sporting career of sacked Wallabies star Israel Folau may not be over as talk of a rugby league comeback continues.    New York's new rugby league franchise in the US have reportedly begun 'urgent' internal discussions to consider luring the controversial dual international to the Big Apple.  It comes after Folau recently reached an out-of-court settlement with Rugby Australia after lodging a $14 million compensation claim for wrongful termination in the wake of his infamous homophobic post on social media. It's understood the 30-year-old has been training hard to get himself fit for a possible return to professional rugby league for the first time in nine years. New York chief executive Ricky Wilby refused to comment but officials suggested the Big Apple could 'perfect place' for Folau to resurrect the rugby league career he initially ditched for AFL, the Daily Telegraph reported. It's understood club officials are speaking with contacts in Australia to gauge their reactions to the idea before they formally approach Folau’s management. Folau's wife Maria retired from netball this week after 150 international caps for the Silver Ferns, which has added fuel to rumours the couple may be looking for a fresh start in the northern hemisphere.   Former New Zealand All Blacks superstar Sonny Bill Williams will head there next month after he recently signed a two-year $10 million deal with Canadian-based club Toronto Wolfpack to play in the English Super League. The lucrative deal made Williams the highest ever paid player in the history of rugby league or union. It's understood New York will enter England's third-tier League One competition in 2021 and could be in the top tier English Super League within two years. The shortlist of names being touted to become New York's first coach include former NSW Origin coach Laurie Daley, along with former NRL coaches Nathan Brown and Trent Barrett 'It would be a conversation you would have to have — you'd be mad not to,' Daley told The Big Sports Breakfast. It's understood Folau's former club Brisbane Broncos are among the NRL clubs also interested the new Australian Rugby League Commission chairman publicly opposing his return to the sport.  'The game is inclusive. Israel's comments are not inclusive,' Peter V'landys said earlier this month. 'I have no tolerance for people that put other people's lives (at risk) or (commit) violence. It's a big statement to make. Folau was the first Australian athlete to be sacked for expressing their religious beliefs.  Following the recent settlement, he apologised for any 'hurt or harm caused' but did not step back from his original anti-gay claim.    By agreeing to an out-of-court settlement - the terms of which are confidential - the sport's governing body has saved itself further crippling legal costs.   While the case was ongoing, Folau linked drought and bushfires to the legalisation of same-sex marriage and abortion at his family's church. Folau played 62 Tests for the Wallabies and became Super Rugby's all-time leading try-scorer earlier this year while playing for the NSW Waratahs.   His career kicked off in rugby league, where he played 91 NRL games for Melbourne Storm and  Brisbane Broncos, five Origin games for Queensland and  represented Australia on eight occasions. He also played 13 games for AFL club GWS Giants in 2011-12.     
