{ By Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  12:18, 18 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7805417/Labour-Tory-MPs-sworn-carrying-babies.html }
A Labour MP and her Conservative counterpart gave new meaning to the term 'Baby of the House' as they were sworn in while carrying their newborn children.  Stella Creasy, the Labour MP for Walthamstow, was welcomed back to the Commons while carrying her baby daughter Hettie in a sling.  Meanwhile, Kemi Badenoch, the Tory education minister and MP for Saffron Walden, did the same as she was sworn in while her daughter was strapped to her body.  The term 'Baby of the House' is used to refer to the youngest member of Parliament.  That title now belongs to 23-year-old Labour MP Nadia Whittome who was elected to represent the seat of Nottingham East at last week's election.  Ms Badenoch, 39, already has a daughter, six, and a son, three, with her husband, Hamish, who works in the City.  Ms Creasy, who has previously detailed her heartbreak after suffering two miscarriages, is a vocal advocate of the need for Parliament to become more family friendly.   Stella Creasy, 42, has been the Labour MP for Walthamstow in North London since 2010.  After graduating from Cambridge University she worked as a lobbyist before later working as a speech writer for Labour government ministers.  She served as a Labour councillor in Waltham Forest before she was selected to be an MP candidate following an all-female shortlist.  She was tipped as a rising star in the party after her election as she served on the frontbench when Ed Miliband was Labour leader.  But she was a vocal critic of Jeremy Corbyn and backed Owen Smith in the leadership race. She has led a number of high profile campaigns as a backbench MP including a crackdown on payday loan lenders. She has previously called for misogyny to be made a hate crime.  Ms Creasy does not talk publicly about her partner. Hettie is her first child. Ms Creasy and Ms Badenoch were among the hundreds of MPs who went through the process of making an oath or solemn affirmation of allegiance to the Crown in order to take their seats in Parliament yesterday.  Ms Creasy, 42, who will now go on maternity leave, said her daughter did not appear to mind the trip to Parliament.  The MP wrote on her Instagram page: 'Under current parliamentary procedure I had to go in today to swear in so that I can have maternity leave and Walthamstow still gets a vote via my proxy.  'Thankfully Hettie not too bothered by the mother of all parliaments.'  Ms Creasy faced vicious abuse from anti-abortion campaigners when she was pregnant this year over her support for terminations in Northern Ireland to be treated as a medical matter rather than a legal one.  In July MPs approved an amendment she put forward to extend abortion rights there — the only part of the UK where it remained illegal. The Labour MP said she believed she had been targeted by campaigners precisely because she was pregnant as activists descended on her constituency to hand out graphic anti-abortion leaflets.  She previously said she believed parliament was effectively telling her to 'choose between being a mum and being an MP' because of outdated rules, regulations and procedures.  Parliament has now introduced measures like proxy voting in a bid to become more family friendly but Ms Creasy, along with many other MPs, believes more must be done to make life easier for new mothers and fathers who work in Parliament. For example, there is an ongoing push to improve facilities for breastfeeding mothers. Jo Swinson, the ousted Lib Dem leader, said in a Commons debate in September 2018 that Parliament 'must do better' on the issue.   Ms Creasy is the first MP to appoint a 'locum' to provide maternity cover for her constituents.  The 'locum' will cover constituency work for seven months but will not be able to sit in the Commons or vote. Ms Creasy will be able to vote by proxy.  Ms Badenoch gave birth in September and she previously detailed the difficulties which came with having a newborn child at the same time as an election.  The minister for children and families said she had hoped that September would be a 'quiet time in politics'.  But when the election was called her planned six months of maternity leave became just six weeks as she had to battle for re-election.  Kemi Badenoch, 39, has been the Tory MP for the Essex seat of Saffron Walden since 2017.  She was born in the UK in 1980 but was brought up in Nigeria before returning at the age of 16.  She detailed her childhood experiences during her maiden speech in the House of Commons as she described living in Lagos and doing her ‘homework by candlelight because the state electricity board could not provide power’.  She joined the Tories at the age of 25 and unsuccessfully stood at the 2010 general election and the 2012 London Assembly election.  After the Brexiteer was elected MP in 2017 she was quickly identified as one to watch after delivering a well-received speech at the Conservative Party conference as she was tasked with introducing Theresa May ahead of the then-PM's big set piece address.  Ms Badenoch is married to Hamish, a Conservative former councillor in Merton, who works in the City.  They now have three children: Two daughters and a son. ‘The truth is I don’t want my baby out in the freezing cold just because there’s an election,' she said in an interview published at the start of December.  'But there is no such thing as maternity leave in an election. You can’t tell the voters, “Sorry, I am looking after my baby.” It’s part of the deal.’ The Commons erupted into a chorus of 'ohs' when newly re-elected Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle reminded MPs that until they take the oath or affirm they 'will not receive any salary'. As well as the 'Baby of the House' the Commons also has a 'Father of the House' - the title given to the longest serving MP.  That role had been held by veteran Tory Ken Clarke but he stepped down at the election, handing the honour to Sir Peter Bottomley, the Tory MP for Worthing West.  Every MP must swear an oath or affirm their allegiance to the Queen before they are allowed to take their seat in the Commons.  Boris Johnson, the Prime Minister, opted to swear, reading the oath: 'Boris Johnson, Uxbridge and South Ruislip, I swear by almighty God that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, her heirs and successors according to law, so help me God.' He was followed by Home Secretary Priti Patel, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, Lord Chancellor Robert Buckland and Commons Leader Jacob Rees-Mogg. Chancellor Sajid Javid opted to affirm while Cabinet Office Minister Oliver Dowden became the first MP to have to take the oath for a second time, after getting it wrong on the first attempt. Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn was the first member of his party to complete the swearing-in process and opted to affirm.  
