{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  21:06, 17 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7803095/Most-memorable-Australian-quotes-2019.html }
THE YEAR IN QUOTES 2019 was marked by the death of Bob Hawke, the sentencing of Cardinal George Pell, catastrophic bushfires, record-breaking droughts and a surprising election victory for the federal coalition government. These are the quotes that defined those moments. JANUARY "This is a man-made disaster, brought to you by the New South Wales Government, the Federal Government and the Murray Darling Basin Authority." - Grazier Rob McBride says while holding a 100-year-old carp killed in the Menindee fish kills. FEBRUARY "No more than a plain vanilla sexual penetration case where the child is not actively participating." - Robert Richter QC argues before Cardinal George Pell is jailed. "In almost every case, the conduct in issue was driven not only by the relevant entity's pursuit of profit but also by individuals' pursuit of gain." - Kenneth Hayne writes in his banking royal commission report that exposes serious misconduct in the financial services sector. MARCH "Our young children will flee and who are they being replaced with? They are being replaced by young people from typically Asia with PhDs." - Former NSW Labor leader Michael Daly tells a crowd in a video that surfaces just days before he loses the NSW state election. "The real cause of bloodshed on New Zealand streets today is the immigration program which allowed Muslim fanatics to migrate to New Zealand in the first place." - Former senator Fraser Anning on the Christchurch mosque shootings allegedly carried out by a white supremacist that claim the lives of 51 people. APRIL "As a code we have made it clear to Israel formally and repeatedly that any social media posts or commentary that is in any way disrespectful to people because of their sexuality will result in disciplinary action." - Rugby Australia says before sacking Israel Folau, who sues for $14 million and settles for a confidential figure. "This was, in all the circumstances, a recklessly irresponsible piece of sensationalist journalism of the worst kind." - Justice Michael Wigney rules in favour of Geoffrey Rush in a landmark defamation case against The Daily Telegraph. MAY "He decided he wasn't going to postal vote. He was going to go up in his wheelchair and vote, but he didn't get there." - Blanche d'Alpuget reveals her husband Bob Hawke's final, unfulfilled, wish to vote in the 2019 federal election. "I have always believed in miracles." - Prime Minister Scott Morrison exclaims to thunderous applause during his 2019 federal election victory speech. JUNE "I'm a little bit speechless. I played the perfect match today. I am so proud of myself and my team." - Ash Barty celebrates her French Open win - and a fortnight later she's world No. 1. "The ABC stands by its journalists, will protect its sources and continue to report without fear or favour on national security and intelligence issues when there is a clear public interest." - ABC managing editor David Anderson tells a press pack as the AFP raids the national broadcaster's head office. JULY "To lose someone so young and vibrant, who was travelling the world and just enjoying life to the full, is devastating." - The Fowler family tells media after Lucas Fowler and partner Chynna Deese are murdered by the side of a highway in Canada. AUGUST "Here she [Jacinda Ardern] is preaching on global warming and saying that we've got to do something about climate change. I just wonder whether Scott Morrison is going to be fully briefed to shove a sock down her throat." - Broadcaster Alan Jones on the NZ prime minister after her address to the Pacific Forum in Tuvalu. SEPTEMBER "It's effectively infanticide on demand." - Former prime minister Tony Abbott tells a rally in Sydney's Hyde Park before abortion is finally decriminalised in NSW. "I want children growing up in Australia to feel positive about their future, and I think it is important we give them that confidence that they will not only have a wonderful country and pristine environment to live in, that they will also have an economy to live in as well. I don't want our children to have anxieties about these issues." - Prime Minister Scott Morrison responds to an impassioned speech by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, 16, at the UN Climate Action Summit. "Anyone who's watched him bat knows the talent, hunger and skill that he has got. People don't see how driven he is and how he trains, eats and sleeps batting." - Australian cricket captain Tim Paine lauds Steve Smith, who almost single-handedly wins the 2019 Ashes test series for Australia. OCTOBER "It's a joyous occasion. It shows that the rest of Australia is respecting the Anangu in their decisions, and it's a brighter future for all Australians." - Anangu man Ryan Liddle tells NITV as the last climbers file off Uluru. NOVEMBER "Our thoughts and prayers are with those who have been so directly and horribly impacted by these fires." - Prime Minister Scott Morrison tweets, angering those demanding urgent action on climate change as unprecedented bushfires rage in NSW. "Not today." - NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian reacts to a reporter's question linking climate change to the bushfires. DECEMBER "This is about allowing for choice for those people who are dying and in pain, so that they don't have to go through those last weeks and months in agony." - West Australian Premier Mark McGowan says after WA becomes the second state in the country and 18th jurisdiction in the world to legalise euthanasia. "White Island has been a disaster waiting to happen for many years. Having visited it twice, I have always felt that it was too dangerous to allow the daily tour groups that visit the uninhabited island volcano by boat and helicopter." - Monash University Emeritus Professor Raymond Cas says in the days after White Island's deadly eruption. 
