abortion
{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:22, 16 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7798113/Carly-Fiorina-says-VITAL-impeach-Donald-Trump.html }
Former Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina said it was 'vital' that President Trump be impeached, though she left the door open to voting for him in 2020.  'I think it is vital that he be impeached,' Fiorina told CNN's Poppy Harlow for an episode of her podcast. 'Whether removed this close to an election, I don't know. But I think the conduct is impeachable.'  Fiorina especially objected to Trump's choice to go after Army Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, one of the impeachment witnesses.  'And some of this conduct, like publicly berating a decorated war veteran who shows up in response to a lawfully issued subpoena of Congress, I think that conduct is not just unbecoming, I think it's destructive to our republic,' Fiorina said.  Fiorina, the former CEO of Hewlett-Packard, who launched unsuccessful bids for Senate and the White House as a Republican, told Harlow that she doesn't recognize the modern-day Republican Party.  'Loyalty to Trump is what I think it stands for,' she said. 'Sadly, sadly.'  During the 2016 presidential cycle, Fiorina and Trump were among the 17 candidates to pursue the GOP nomination. Fiorina was the only female. She endured insults about her physical appearance from Trump. And delayed endorsing him, joining Sen. Ted Cruz's ticket in a last ditch effort to beat the billionaire businessman in the Republican primary.  In the interview, she said she eventually voted for Trump in 2016, in part because she thought Hillary Clinton was 'also corrupt.'    'And I've been very disappointed,' she said of Trump's performance.  That doesn't mean a vote for Trump in 2020 is off the table though.  'It depends on who the Democrats put up, and I won't go any farther than that,' she said.  Fiorina guessed that some voting blocs, such as the pro-life community who feel 'disrepected' by the Democrats, will stick with Trump, because the issue of abortion means more to them than his conduct.  'And what I regret is that the principles that are being debated in this impeachment trial - separations of powers, abuse of powers, obstruction of Congress - those principles are not as immediate or intense as partisanship or people's belief that the policies that I care about impact me personally,' Fiorina said.  But, Fiorina urged, 'principles matter.'   'I think my message is,  in this country hanging on to a job is not the most important thing,' Fiorina said. 'In this country we do not pledge allegiance to a party or a president.'    
