abortion
{ By Rory Tingle For Mailonline   Published:  16:55, 16 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7798101/Father-27-jailed-seven-years-manipulating-mother-abortion.html }
A father-to-be has been jailed for seven years after he manipulated the mother of his unborn child into taking drugs that would bring on a late abortion. Isaac Lyndsay, 27, falsely told the woman he had cancer to persuade her to take misoprostol tablets in April last year to bring on an abortion later than the usual cut-off point of 24 weeks.  Lyndsay had been in a casual sexual relationship with the mother and carried out Internet searches including 'how to convince your partner to have an abortion' and 'what drugs to use to terminate a pregnancy'. Lyndsay, from London, learned the woman was pregnant in February last year while he was in a relationship with another partner, who was also pregnant, St Albans Crown Court heard. To obtain the abortion drugs, Lyndsay contacted his friend Kasam Rahman, 26, who called his university colleague Robinraj Christy, 28. Lyndsay told the woman he had been diagnosed with cancer in a bid to convince her to take the drugs. 'There was no reason to suspect this was true. It showed the level of manipulation involved,' prosecutor Ms Bramwell said. When Lyndsay took the tablets to the woman's home he said, 'We need to do this'. The judge, who had dismissed charges against the woman halfway through the trial, said she had been in a controlling relationship with Lyndsey, who had told her she was having an unwanted baby. Prosecutor Corinne Bramwell said the woman had booked an appointment for a termination at a Marie Stopes clinic in February, but did not go ahead. She said it was the prosecution's case that the mother had always intended to have the child, who survived the abortion attempt. On Friday, Justice Andrew Baker sentenced Lyndsey to seven years and Rahman and Christy to three years each for aiding him. Rahman and Lyndsay admitted conspiring to administer a poison to the woman between March 20 and April 24, 2018 to procure a miscarriage. Christy was convicted of the charge by a jury. Rahman pleaded guilty to possessing a Class C drug - Tramadol - on August 30, 2018.  
