abortion
{ By James Gordon For Dailymail.com    Published:  04:07, 16 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7795965/Bloombergs-company-culture-harassment-discrimination-stretching-1980s.html }
Democratic presidential candidate Michael Bloomberg is the subject of a number of lawsuits which claim a culture of harassment and discrimination festered at the company he founded.  Legal filings show that Bloomberg LP has been the subject of multiple complaints since the firm started operating in 1981.  Complaints named both the former New York City mayor and his company with the largest lawsuit in 2007 claiming the company discriminated in particular against mothers and pregnant women. The U.S. District Court of Manhattan eventually dismissed claims from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on behalf of more than 70 women who worked at the company.     The lawsuit alleged the women would have their pay cut, be excluded from management meetings and be demoted, but the suit was dismissed after 'not enough statistical evidence' could be found reports Business Insider. Some women were told, 'You are not committed,' and 'You do not want to be here' because of the extra demands being placed on their time as new parents, according to the suit. 'It's like stealing money from Mike Bloomberg's wallet,' a plaintiff quoted the editor as saying while referring to women at the company who went on maternity leave. 'It's theft. They should be arrested.'  In a lawsuit filed in the 1990s one pregnant woman is alleged to have been told by the Democratic contender to have an abortion. 'He told me to 'kill it' in a serious monotone voice,' the woman alleged. 'I asked 'What? What did you just say?' He looked at me and repeated in a deliberate manner 'kill it.''  'The atmosphere was toxic and harassing, with locker room atmosphere that was a sexually harassing atmosphere.' said lawyer Bonnie Josephs to ABC News who has spoken with numerous women involved in the lawsuits against Bloomberg. 'If Mr. Bloomberg is running for president, I think the public needs to know what actually happened in this business,' Josephs said. 'It's his company, it's his business. He frames the atmosphere. He has to be responsible for it.'  Bloomberg has repeatedly denied the specific 'kill it' allegation including on the Today show in 2001. The discrimination lawsuit was later settled out of court and the complainant signed a confidentiality agreement.   In another lawsuit, filed in 2016, Bloomberg was accused of breeding 'a hostile work environment' that led to discrimination although he managed to have his name removed from the multi-million dollar case.  In that suit, a women alleged she had been raped by a fellow employee while she was drunk and then became dependent on drugs that were hidden for her around the office.  'Mr. Bloomberg, Bloomberg's founder, CEO, and President, and the former three-term Mayor of New York, encouraged this type of sexist and sexually charged behavior,' states the complaint filed by a 26-year-old woman.  'Bloomberg's notoriously sexist and hostile work environment has been well documented and has been the subject of myriad law suits prior to this lawsuit.' At a 1996 dinner party ABC reports how is alleged to have announced to colleagues who were gathered around a table, 'I'd love nothing more in life than to have Sharon Stone sit on my face.' 'Bloomberg would gawk at women and say about their legs, 'I like that,'' stated one  former Bloomberg employee who was quoted in court records from 1995. 'He defended his attitude by saying it keeps him young.'  Another former executive, Johnna Ayres, sued Bloomberg and Bloomberg LP in 2018 claiming the company had 'a hostile work environment and an atmosphere of retaliation.' Ayres resigned from Bloomberg 'after being targeted for termination because she complained about illegal financial, discriminatory and other employment practices by her male predecessor', the suit reads.    The lawsuit as seen by ABC News also stated the firm's 'proclivity to hire males, specifically males under the age of 40, resulted in a fraternity-fashioned corporate culture.' 'Following the example and leadership of Mr. Bloomberg, Bloomberg's dominant male culture allows sex to permeate the company's work environment on a daily basis,' the lawsuit filed by Ayres states.   Some of the allegedly chauvinistic lines were printed in a birthday gift for Bloomberg in 1990 and consisted of a 32-page book of one-liners compiled by his workers entitled 'The Portable Bloomberg: The Wit and Wisdom of Michael Bloomberg.'  'If women wanted to be appreciated for their brains, they'd go to the library instead of to Bloomingdale's,' said one remark attributed Bloomberg.   'Make the customer think he's getting laid when he's getting f*****,' read another.  When the booklet reemerged during Bloomberg's 2001 run for mayor, he claimed he did not remember saying them.  Other lawsuits are also still active including one from October 2019 in which an employee claimed to have been fired while receiving cancer treatment. Many of the women who complained about the work environment at Bloomberg LP are barred from speaking out after signing strict nondisclosure agreements and when cases are settled out of court, there are usually numerous confidentiality clauses so any alleged misconduct is never fully revealed. In recent statement to The New York Times Bloomberg's team said the businessman admitted 'some of what he has said is disrespectful and wrong.' 'He believes his words have not always aligned with his values and the way he has led his life,' spokesman Stu Loeser told the Times last month. Bloomberg served as CEO of his company from 1981 until 2001. He stepped down after becoming mayor of New York City for three terms before returning to Bloomberg LP in late 2014.  He stepped down again from the firm after launching his presidential bid in November.  Bloomberg's campaign has also realized that if the billionaire wants to have a shot at the presidency he will also have to address the decades of comments against women.  'There will always be somebody that's not happy, but we are -- we do very well in terms of attracting men and women to come to work in the company, and the retention rate with both of them is good as I think any real company,' Bloomberg said on Sunday. 'So, I'm very proud of what we do.'   The company, Bloomberg LP,  denies all allegations of gender discrimination and note that there has been a concerted effort to have more women placed into executive positions with and improved benefits including 26-week maternity leave.  'Mike Bloomberg has supported and empowered women throughout his career -- from appointing women to the very top positions in his mayoral administration to supporting women candidates for higher office to an industry-leading 26-weeks of paid family leave at his company,' Bloomberg campaign spokesperson Julie Wood wrote in a statement.  'At the same time, Mike has come to see that some of what he has said is disrespectful and wrong. He believes his words have not always aligned with his values and the way he has led his life.' 
