abortion
{ By Amie Gordon For Mailonline and Joel Adams   Published:  22:59, 12 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7787223/Boris-Johnson-set-stay-office-years.html }
Boris Johnson is celebrating over breakfast this morning as the most powerful Conservative Prime Minister since the 1980s, with a majority of close to 80 seats and a mandate from the country to 'get Brexit done'. The tousled-haired politician walked back through the door of Number 10 today, girlfriend Carrie Symonds, 31, on his arm, having reclaimed his title of the 'Heineken politician' - the leader who reaches the parts others cannot.  He has smashed Labour's vaunted 'red wall', seen both socialist Jeremy Corbyn and Remainer Jo Swinson resign the leaderships of their parties, and secured the largest Tory majority since Margaret Thatcher. The Prime Minister who only this autumn had a majority of minus 40 - and who only a year ago was on the backbenches - is now secure in Downing Street for the next half-decade. Speaking to staff at CCHQ Mr Johnson said the party had 'changed the political map', telling a victory rally: 'In winning this election we have won votes and the trust of people who have never voted Conservative before and people have always voted for other parties.'  But it didn't always look like he would. Just this year even some of his own Conservative colleagues were calling him a 'marmite' politician, and asking whether they could back - or even trust - as their leader a man sacked twice for lying who notoriously indulged in a string of extra-marital affairs and allegedly got two of his mistresses pregnant.   His progress to Number 10 may look inexorable in hindsight but the process drew attention to his messy private life; two ex-wives, a pole-dancing technology advisor, a love-child, and a relationship with a woman 24 years his junior.  His tangled love life even, notoriously, saw him locked out of his own home in front of TV cameras by his angry wife Marina, over allegations he had cheated on her in 2004.  He was fired from the Tory front bench by leader Michael Howard for lying to him when his affair was uncovered by the press. And this year he has found himself the subject of official probes into more than £100,000 of public money which Jennifer Arcuri, an American former pole dancer turned tech entrepreneur, received at a time when she and Johnson were rumoured to be having an affair.  Boris married his second wife, Marina Wheeler, in 1993 just 12 days after finalising his divorce from his first wife Allegra Mostyn-Owen. But in 2018 they announced that they, too, were divorcing after Marina learned of her husband's fondness for Carrie Symonds, 31. This makes him the first PM in modern times to divorce while in Downing Street.   But now it seems any skeletons emerging from his closet have failed to deter the voters and simply amuse, rather than horrify.    The seemingly Teflon-coated Boris Johnson has been able to survive and prosper despite - or possibly due to - his capacity for attracting attention.   It was his public actions, whether writing provocative columns or his record in the Foreign Office, which led to most scrutiny as Tory Party members decided on the next prime minister. He has been repeatedly criticised for using racially charged or offensive language, including describing the Queen being greeted in Commonwealth countries by 'flag-waving piccaninnies' and then-prime minister Tony Blair being met by 'tribal warriors' with 'watermelon smiles' while on a trip to the Congo. In 1994, a tape of his conversation with his friend Darius Guppy, a convicted fraudster, in which he agreed to help Guppy with his plan to beat up a journalist, came to light.  Writing in the Spectator in 1995, Mr Johnson described British men as 'useless' and the children of single mothers as 'a generation of ill-raised, ignorant, aggressive and illegitimate children. In 2004, Johnson published an editorial in The Spectator suggesting that Liverpudlians were 'hooked on grief' over the Hillsborough Disaster. Mr Johnson also criticised the 'appalling proliferation of single mothers' and blamed successive Tory and Labour governments for 'failing to restrict the public emoluments available to this group.' The PM, who was the assistant editor of the Daily Telegraph at the time, also suggested social housing was 'an enticement' for young women to have children. In a 2018 Daily Telegraph column, he described veiled Muslim women as 'looking like letter boxes'. Mr Johnson has also faced repeated questions about his blunder as foreign secretary in the case of jailed British-Iranian Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, who he mistakenly said had been training journalists - comments which were seized on by the authorities in Tehran.  And in the final days of the campaign, there was a storm over his refusal to look at a photograph of a four-year-old boy who had to sleep on a hospital floor, instead pocketing the phone of a journalist who tried to show him the image.  This morning Mr Johnson can celebrate his rise from journalist at the Daily Telegraph to security in Number 10 for the next five years, via appearances on Have I Got News For You and a stint as the ziplining Mayor of London.  Max Hastings, Johnson's editor in his days as a young reporter at the Daily Telegraph, dubbed him a 'foot-in-the-mouth artist; serial bonker and manic self-publicist'.  Mr Johnson married Oxford University sweetheart Allegra Mostyn-Owen in 1987, but they divorced in 1993 after he cheated on her with Marina. In 2004, his four-year affair with journalist and society author Petronella Wyatt, the daughter of Labour grandee Lord Wyatt, came to public attention. She later told how she had an abortion and suffered a miscarriage. Mr Johnson was sacked from his role as shadow arts minister by then-Tory leader Michael Howard for lying about the relationship.  Mr Howard's spokesman said at the time the issue was one of 'personal morality'.  Mr Johnson dismissed the allegations as 'an inverted pyramid of piffle'.  In 2006 the News of the World reported Mr Johnson had had an affair with journalist Anna Fazackerley. His wife threw her husband out of their home, but the couple later patched things up. In 2009, Boris fathered a child with art consultant Helen Macintyre. The Court of Appeal ruled in 2013 that the public had a right to know about Boris's philandering past.  Once again, his wife kicked him out of the family home before taking him back.  But September 2018 heralded the final straw for the mother of the MP's four older children – Lara, Milo Arthur, Cassia Peaches, and Theodore Apollo. When his affair with Carrie Symonds came to light, he and Marina finally filed for divorce.  Their daughter Lara Johnson, who is only five years younger than Miss Symonds, reportedly branded her father a 'selfish b******'. Claims that Mr Johnson squeezed the thigh of journalist Charlotte Edwardes, at a private lunch at The Spectator magazine's HQ shortly after he became editor in 1999, overshadowed his first Conservative Party conference as PM.  Then earlier this year, Boris's relationship with his American former pole dancer 'technology advisor' Jennifer Arcuri came under public scrutiny over allegations she received favourable treatment for her business ventures during his eight-year stint as mayor of London. The US businesswoman was at the centre of a storm over her relationship with Boris, with accusations of impropriety over the public money her company received when he was mayor of London.  Ms Arcuri said Mr Johnson had never showed her 'any favouritism' and denied newspaper reports he wrote her a letter of recommendation for a £100,000-a-year tech job.    1964: Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson was born in New York and moved house 32 times by the age of 14 1977: Attended Eton where teachers said he had a 'disgracefully cavalier attitude' 1983: Went to Oxford after winning a scholarship to study classics, and joined the infamous Bullingdon Club 1987: Graduated with a 2:1 and was taken on as a graduate trainee at the Times - before being quickly sacked 1989: Secured a job at the Daily Telegraph after inviting editor Max Hastings to speak at the Oxford Union and was promoted to Brussels correspondent aged 25 1994: Made Telegraph's assistant editor and chief political columnist and given a column in the Spectator 1998: Appeared on Have I Got News for You and made the audience laugh while discussing Guppy tape 1999: Made editor of The Spectator and stayed on for four years 2001: Became MP for Henley until 2008 2008: Served as Mayor of London until 2016 2016: Foreign Secretary until 2018  2019: In May he was appointed leader of the Conservative Party   In June, neighbours overheard a blazing row between Mr Johnson and Ms Symonds which resulted in police being called to the couple's home in the early hours.  Downstairs neighbours called police to Carrie Symonds' south London flat in a converted Victorian house over the loud row between the pair.  A recording of the row reveals Mr Johnson, 55, who lives at his partner's flat, shouted at Miss Symonds to 'get off my f***ing laptop' before a loud crashing noise was heard. Tonight however, it seems the vast majority of Conservative supporters do not give a fig about Johnson's love life or misdemeanors.  In May this year, a Survation opinion poll for the Daily Mail showed that some 83 per cent of Tories did not think his two broken marriages made him unfit to be prime minister.  Only 12 per cent of Tories said they did disqualify him. Labour voters were similarly forgiving: 71 per cent said his marital record did not disbar him from No 10.  If borne out by the actual results, the Prime Minister will return to Number 10 on Friday with a considerable majority which will, in theory, enable him to drive through his Brexit deal and take the UK out of the European Union next month.  It would represent the largest majority for a Conservative leader since Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s. The result will be seen as a triumph for his tightly-controlled election campaign, which was largely gaffe-free until the final week.  Carrie Symonds is credited with transforming Mr Johnson's public image. Under her direction, his famous blond mane has been cropped, he has lost weight and his trademark dishevelled appearance has been replaced by a sharp-suited image. Carrie comes from a successful background as her father Matthew Symonds was co-founder of The Independent newspaper and her mother Josephine Mcaffee a successful media lawyer.  Carrie moved into No 10 when Boris won the leadership race.    Sources say Carrie's ability to effortlessly combine the intense focus required to win a fiercely fought leadership campaign with a playful sense of fun has rubbed off on Boris, bringing a competency that his political operation once lacked.   He is said to be hoping to marry Miss Symonds once his divorce to Marina Wheeler, with whom he has four children, has been finalised.  The break-up is said to have severely strained relations between Mr Johnson and his children. Mr Johnson entered the potentially difficult December election without a majority and just 298 Tory MPs after some quit the party and he withdrew the whip from others when they rebelled over Brexit. But this morning's walk into Downing Street with girlfriend Carrie Symonds, came as the Conservatives racked up a stunning tally of 365 seats and their biggest majority since Thatcher.  Jeremy Corbyn announced this morning that he will quit as leader after Labour humiliatingly collapsed to 203 - down 59 on 2017. But Mr Corbyn petulantly swiped at 'disgusting' media attacks on him, saying he still believed his hard-Left platform was 'popular', and blamed Brexit for preventing 'normal political debate'. He made clear he will stay on for a period of 'reflection' while a replacement is selected. But his furious backbenchers have already signalled they want a change in political direction that will spark a civil war, warning there could be '20 years of Tory rule'.  The Tories' estimated vote share of 45 per cent in Britain is the highest achieved since Edward Heath in 1970. In England the Conservatives polled 47.1 per cent to Labour's 34.3 per cent, and in Wales they were supported by an impressive 36.1 per cent. By contrast Mr Corbyn looks to have stewarded his party to its worst performance since 1935 and plunged it into a seething civil war - despite his allies vainly claiming earlier that high turnout might have helped him pull off a surprise. In another moment of high drama, Lib Dem leader Jo Swinson suffered the ultimate humiliation of losing her own East Dunbartonshire seat. And ironically the party's Brexit spokesman Tom Brake lost his Carshalton base to the Tories. As a delighted Donald Trump tweeted that it was 'looking like a big win' and teed up a 'massive new trade deal' with the US, Mr Johnson told a victory rally in Westminster: "In winning this election we have won votes and the trust of people who have never voted Conservative before and people have always voted for other parties. 'Those people want change. We cannot, must not, must not, let them down. "And in delivering change we must change too. "We must recognise the incredible reality that we now speak as a one nation Conservative Party literally for everyone from Woking to Workington, from Kensington I'm proud to say to Clwyd South, from Surrey Heath to Sedgefield, from Wimbledon to Wolverhampton".' And in an address to staff at CCHQ afterwards, Mr Johnson said: 'We must understand now what an earthquake we have created. 'The way in which we have changed the political map in this country. 'We have to grapple with the consequences of that. We have to change our own party. We have to rise to the level of events. We have to rise to the challenge that the British people have given us.' The next five years will reveal whether the man who has reneged on promises to wives, employers and party leaders so many times in his life will make good on that vow to his voters.  
