abortion
{ By Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  19:49, 11 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7782187/Daisy-Lowe-amps-sex-appeal-busty-satin-dress-GQs-Christmas-lunch.html }
She often displays her eye-catching sense of style at high-profile industry events. And Daisy Lowe turned heads once again as she attended GQ's Christmas lunch at The Treehouse in central London on Wednesday evening. The model, 30, commanded attention as she slipped into a busty black dress, which accentuated her killer curves and cleavage. Mixing sex appeal with sophistication, the daughter of musician Gavin Rossdale and textiles designer Pearl Lowe teamed her flirty number with a bold tuxedo blazer. The Strictly star highlighted her lean legs in a pair of sheer tights, and boosted her frame in classic pointed heels. With her cropped tresses styled into a straight fashion, the Westminster native complemented her beauty with matte foundation and added a splash of colour to her look with velvet red lipstick. Daisy's appearance comes after she candidly revealed she had a 'heartbreaking' secret abortion because she 'wasn't ready to be a mum'.  The media personality bravely opened up about her decision after falling pregnant in a past relationship, revealing she is 'grateful' she was given a choice. Daisy said: 'I wasn't ready to be a mum. It was heartbreaking. But I'm so grateful I didn't have that baby. I would have sacrificed a lot and I wouldn’t have been the best mum at the time.' The raven-haired beauty made the admission while being interviewed by Mel B on her new dating podcast The Truth Flirts with Badoo. The Spice Girls star asked her whether she would ever date someone who had conflicting views on abortion. 'The only time when it has come up in my relationship was when I did get pregnant and I did need to make the choice and I chose to have one', Daisy explained. 'He was supportive, but I had to go to the clinic and it was heartbreaking. mHe called me when I was having the scan and there was a healthy heartbeat, he said, "You’ve got to keep it, we’ve got to keep it". I was like, "Are you f**king kidding me?" I was like "I can’t". Daisy went on to explain why it's 'every woman's choice' to have an abortion, adding that there's enough children who are in need of love in the world. She said: 'Ultimately there are a lot of very unwanted, unwell kids in the world who need a whole lot of love. 'The planet is overpopulated enough, so why should we bring unwanted kids into the world. 'I think it’s important. It’s a heartbreaking decision to make. “I’m really grateful that I had the choice growing up.'   
