{ By Keith Griffith For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:56, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8008723/Lawsuit-claims-Mike-Bloomberg-told-employee-black-nanny.html }
Billionaire Democratic presidential candidate Mike Bloomberg once told a female employee struggling to find childcare to hire 'some black,' according to a 1998 lawsuit.  'It's a f***ing baby! All it does is eat and s**t! It doesn't know the difference between you and anyone else! All you need is some black who doesn't have to speak English to rescue it from a burning building,' Bloomberg said in July 1993 to a female salesperson who'd just had a baby, according to the lawsuit. The woman responded by crying at her boss's harsh words, according to the lawsuit, which is the subject of a new report by the Washington Post. The incident is one of many descriptions of sexist and demeaning remarks compiled in a lawsuit filed against Bloomberg and his financial information company in 1998 by Sekiko Sakai Garrison. The central claim in the lawsuit is that when Bloomberg learned on April 11, 1995, that Garrison was pregnant, he allegedly said to her, 'Kill it!'  Garrison asked Bloomberg to repeat what he said, and she said he responded, 'Kill it! Great! Number 16!,' which she took as a reference to the number of pregnant women and new mothers at the company, according to the lawsuit. Garrison said in the suit that she interpreted Bloomberg's remark as an instruction to 'have an abortion to keep her job.' The case was settled out of court, and Bloomberg denied that he had made the cruel remark, insisting that his comment had been misheard or the context mangled. A spokesperson for Bloomberg's campaign did not immediately respond to an inquiry from DailyMail.com regarding the alleged 'some black' remark.   The old lawsuit, and others regarding discrimination complaints at Bloomberg LP, are the subject of fresh scrutiny as Bloomberg's presidential campaign faces hard questions about the former New York City mayor's ability to win over black voters. As mayor, Bloomberg presided over sharp drops in crime that continued from the term of his predecessor, Rudy Giuliani, and was a strong advocate of 'stop-and-frisk' policies. Bloomberg credited stop-and-frisk with getting illegal guns off the streets and dramatically reducing shootings, but his critics decry it as a racist policy that targeted black and Hispanic youth. Earlier this week, Bloomberg tried to tackle race concerns head on by launching a 'Mike For Black America' outreach initiative.  Bloomberg rallied black supporters in Texas on Thursday, with his sights set on so-called 'Super Tuesday' on March 3, when voters in 16 states and territories will cast their ballots in the Democratic primary.  'This month, we look back and celebrate black history together, because black history is American history,' Bloomberg said at the Buffalo Soldiers museum, named after a Civil War regiment of African-American soldiers, where he kicked off his 'Mike for Black America' campaign.  On Thursday he again apologized for backing arbitrary 'stop-and-frisk' searches by the New York police when he was mayor. 'I defended it, looking back, for too long, because I didn't understand then the unintended pain it was causing to young black and brown families and their kids'. Bloomberg had already apologized over the scandal, but it surfaced again after a recording was spread widely on social media -- and retweeted by Trump -- in which he said police should be deployed to minority neighborhoods because 'that's where all the crime is.' He received the support Thursday of the influential, black Democratic mayor of Houston, Sylvester Turner. 'It's important for me to hear the recognition that the policy that was put in place was not the right policy, that it was flawed, that it was insensitive,' Turner said.   
