{ By Megan Sheets For Dailymail.com    Published:  21:25, 9 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7773643/Planned-Parenthood-shooter-Robert-Dear-indicted-68-federal-charges.html }
A man who admitted to killing three people and injuring nine others in a mass shooting at a Planned Parenthood in Colorado has been indicted by a federal grand jury on 68 criminal charges.   Robert Dear, 61, was hit with 179 state charges after the November 2015 shooting in Colorado Springs, but the case stalled in 2016 after Colorado officials repeatedly deemed him mentally unfit for trial.   US Attorney Jason Dunn announced the new slate of federal charges brought against Dear on Monday. He said his office chose to pursue the case as the five-year statute of limitations is set to expire in 11 months.   'The dozens of victims of this heinous act, as well as the Colorado Springs community itself, deserve justice,' Dunn said in a press release.  'After four years of lengthy delays in state court, and in consultation with the 4th Judicial District Attorney and victims, this office made the decision to charge Mr. Dear.' Prosecutors say Dear was armed 12 guns and more than 500 rounds of ammunition when he went to wage 'war' on the Colorado Springs clinic for providing abortion services on November 27, 2015.  He opened fire in the parking lot before storming inside, firing nearly 200 rounds total.   He then tried to blow up propane tanks to take out law enforcement vehicles during a five-hour stand-off with police, according to the indictment.   Three people – Jennifer Markovsky, Ke'Arre Stewart, and police officer Garrett Swasey – were killed in the shooting. Nine others, including four law enforcement officers, were injured.   A federal grand jury indicted Dear on 65 counts of violating the federal Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances (FACE) Act, along with three counts of use of a firearm during a crime of violence resulting in murder.   The defendant was not charged with homicide because federal law does not have a homicide offense that applies in this case, prosecutors said.   Dear could be sentenced to death if convicted, but prosecutors have not said whether they intend to seek the death penalty.  If he is convicted and not sentenced to death, he will face 10 years to life in prison.    Dear was taken into federal custody on Monday and appeared in Denver court at 2pm local time. 'I'm not crazy, I'm just a religious zealot,' he told the court after the federal charges were read.  Dear has been held at the Colorado Mental Health Institute in Pueblo since 2016, undergoing psychological evaluations every 90 days.  He was ruled competent to stand trial at Monday's hearing.     
