abortion
{ By Afp   Published:  19:59, 9 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/afp/article-7773653/Accused-Planned-Parenthood-shooter-indicted-federal-jury.html }
Robert Dear has yet to face trial for the deaths of three people in Colorado Springs in 2015 after state officials repeatedly found him mentally unfit for trial A US man accused of a mass shooting at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado has been indicted by a federal jury after years of delay, prosecutors said Monday. Robert Dear has yet to face trial for the deaths of three people in Colorado Springs in 2015 after state officials repeatedly found him mentally unfit. Federal officials dramatically intervened Monday following "lengthy delays" at state level, taking Dear into custody from a Colorado psychiatric ward to appear at federal court on 68 criminal counts. "The dozens of victims of this heinous act, as well as the Colorado Springs community itself, deserve justice," said Jason Dunn, of the US Attorney's Office in Denver. The 61-year-old is accused of opening fire outside the clinic before storming the building for a five-hour siege which saw three people killed and nine others sustain gunshot wounds. According to the indictment, Dear traveled to the clinic intending to wage "war" because the clinic offered abortion services. He allegedly had with him six rifles, five handguns and a shotgun, as well as more than 500 rounds of ammunition. Dear will now face charges under a federal law that protects family planning clinics, and for firearm use resulting in death. Federal officials acted because the clinic charges will expire in one year under the statute of limitations, and said they moved forward in accordance with the "views of ... victims." While Dear has been charged with first-degree murder at state level, no applicable homicide offenses exist at federal level. Still, if convicted of the federal crimes Dear could face the death penalty. No decision has been reached on whether to pursue the death penalty, prosecutors said, with further victim family consultations due to take place. A judge in 2016 found Dear was not mentally capable, accepting psychological reports that he had suffered for decades from a delusional disorder, believing federal agents were out to get him. 
