{ By Chris Dyer For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:26, 9 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7771939/Student-Sacramento-State-appears-slap-former-College-Republicans-president-video.html }
A video of a Sacramento State student appearing to repeatedly slap a Republican classmate after they got into a row over an anti-abortion post has emerged online.  The scuffle broke out between Keaton Hill and the former president of the College Republicans, Floyd Johnson, after the pair disagreed over a Facebook post. Hill allegedly commented on a mutual friend's anti-abortion message on social media, according to the Sacramento Bee. He reportedly wrote: 'I hope that kid on your page dies of whatever cancer they have.' Johnson then waded in and the pair exchanged comments in a dispute that spilled over into their European politics class on Friday morning.  After class, Hill reportedly walked past Johnson and said 'f*** you' to him.  Johnson and a friend followed Hill and confronted him, before the dispute quickly escalated. At the start of the video, filmed by Johnson, Hill turned and said, 'do you want me to go to Tom Carroll [student conduct administrator] about this?' To which Johnson replied, 'there's nothing wrong with this', as Hill took out his own phone and began to also film the confrontation. When Johnson asked, 'what have I done?', Hill said, 'you're harassing me' while still recording, before suddenly swinging at Johnson, trying to slap the phone out of his hand. Johnson said 'that is not OK', as his friend could be seen restraining Hill, who then shouted, 'you're going to end up f****** dead' as he tried to wriggle free. He then broke away and appeared to again knock Johnson's phone out of his hand before walking away a second time.  Johnson said to Hill, 'you cannot do that, that's battery, that is assault, stop', as his rival wiped at him again.   Passers-by intervened and separated the warring pair, as Hill then walked down the steps and away from the building.    In a statement to the school's newspaper, Hill apologized for 'lunging at Floyd's phone' but accused him of provocation.   Hill told KCRA: 'I felt a little intimidated and scared. I think maybe my emotions got the best of me and I tried to swipe the phone out of Floyd's hand.  'I never tried to hit him or anyone else. I just wanted him to stop recording me and leave me alone.' Johnson said he did not fight back because he wanted to record the confrontation.  He told the Sacramento Bee: 'I didn't choose to fight back because I'm 6ft 5in and he's 5ft 6in or 5ft 7in or something. It really would have been unfair. 'And anyway, the way he was hitting me was open-handed. If he was connecting and actually hurting me, then I would have engaged with him, but in that moment I was more focused on videoing the incident and recording what was going on.'  The university said it is continuing to investigate the incident while discussing it with police and the Student Conduct office. President Robert Nelsen,Sacramento State President, said via a Facebook post on the school's page that he was 'appalled' by the incident. He said: 'I am deeply disturbed and appalled to learn that there was a fistfight on campus today between two students. We are investigating the situation, but I want to make it unequivocally clear that violence is never the answer. 'Sacramento State is a caring campus - a welcoming place for all members of the Hornet Family. No one should ever be physically attacked. Everyone deserves to feel safe and secure in expressing their identity and beliefs. 'In today's increasingly tense political climate, we must care for each other and treat one another with respect despite our differences.' Johnson has filed a report with Sacramento Police, Chief Mark Iwasa said and charges are pending as part of an ongoing investigation. 
