abortion
{ By Charlie Moore and Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  21:54, 8 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7769845/Bitter-texts-Blanche-dAlpuget-Bob-Hawkes-grandson-fight-estate.html }
Bob Hawke's grandson texted Blanche d'Alpuget in fury when he found out she planned to sell off the former prime minister's belongings in a public auction, according to court documents. Ms d'Alpuget sold her husband's possessions for $671,630 in August, three months after he died aged 89 in May. The sale upset his daughter Rosslyn Dillon, the youngest of his three surviving children with first wife Hazel. Her son Paul Dillon angrily texted Ms d'Alpuget to let her know he thought the auction was a bad idea.  'Blanche, are you kidding with this auction?' he wrote, according to legal documents filed to the NSW Supreme court and seen by The New Daily. Referencing 10 paintings by artist Harry Bilson which were sold, he added: 'Selling all the Harry Bilsons? No thought to ask the family to take furniture or anything?!!' 'Don't you have a limit?' Ms d'Alpuget replied that she had forwarded the messaged to someone else because 'I find it threatening'. Mr Dillon asked her which part was threatening and she replied: 'The suggestion that I had no right to auction stuff that is legally mine.' She then accused Rosslyn of 'stirring up her sons with false information'.  Mr Dillon replied that his message was not threatening and claimed that Mr Hawke had told him he could have the Harry Bilson painting Fairground Carousel, which sold for $7,800. The texts featured in legal papers filed to the New South Wales Supreme Court on Friday as part of Rosslyn's claim to $4.2million of Mr Hawke's estate. Mrs Dillon is contesting the former Prime Minister's will, claiming the $750,000 he left each of his children is not enough. In the court papers, the recovering heroin addict also detailed explosive claims that she was raped by Labor MP Bill Landeryou in the 1980s and Mr Hawke covered it up to protect his career. Her affidavit reveals she is on welfare, lives in a squalid flat, and had all her teeth ripped out. Ms Dillon's list of demands, itemised in the claim obtained by the New Daily, begins with $2.5million to buy a house in Sydney's eastern suburbs. This would be a huge upgrade on her one-bedroom flat she claims is in need of repair and infested with cockroaches - despite its $500 a week rent. Ms Dillon suffers from depression, anxiety, PTSD, and agoraphobia and said she lives on a $1,852.40 per month disability pension. She claims the $750,00 set aside for her in Mr Hawke's will was not enough to buy a Sydney home and would slash the pension that is her only income. The 59-year-old's affidavit cites Australian Bureau of Statistics estimates that she will live another 27.6 years and would therefore need $1.2 million in expenses. She has about $21,000 to her name including $6,000 cash and $14,000 in Ansett superannuation from working at a VIP airport lounge in Canberra in the 1980s.   The affidavit lists her claims including $4,000 for linen and towels, $3,100 for kitchen appliances and $5,500 for other kitchen items, $16,000 for household appliances, $50,000 for furniture, and $6,000 for new clothes and shoes.  Ms Dillion wants $30,000 for a full mouth of implanted dentures to replace the ones she has been wearing for the past five years. 'I have no teeth of my own in my mouth,' she said. House in Sydney's eastern suburbs: $2.5 million Stamp duty: $123,090 Conveyancing fees: $2,000 Computer course: $1,030 Dental implants: $30,000 Funeral, burial plot, headstone: $26,000 Kitchen renovation: $30,000 Bathroom renovation: $30,000 Kitchen appliances: $3,100 Linen and towels: $4,000 Kitchen items: $5,500 Household appliances: $16,000 Furniture: $50,000 Clothes and shoes: $6,000  'I had them all removed around five years ago at a cost of $8,000. I do have dentures, however they are uncomfortable and cause me pain. I cannot afford to have them replaced.' Having made no plans for her funeral, she demands a 'reasonably priced' $7,000 funeral, and a $14,400 burial plot at Eastern Suburbs Cemetery with a 'modest' $5,000 headstone or $4,400 memorial plaque. Ms Dillon has no computer or access to the internet but wants $1,030 to attend a computer course, and for her new home to have a sewing machine.  Mr Hawke's second wife, his former biographer Blanche d'Alpuget, received the bulk of his estate including the $14million proceeds of selling their Northbridge mansion months before his death. Ms d'Alpuget now lives in a $3.9million flat in One30 Hyde Park she and her late husband bought earlier this year in her name. She previously dismissed Ms Dillon's legal challenge as being fuelled by grief at her father's death. Another of Mr Hawke's daughters, Sue Pieters-Hawke, told New Daily that the family knew of the rape allegations and that they had distressed their father. She insisted the family were supportive at the time but that it 'didn't involve using the legal system'. Ms Dillon alleged in the affidavit that she was raped three times in the 1980s by Bill Landeryou, a close friend of Mr Hawke.  But as she turned to her father for comfort, she said she was met with a 'shocking and hurtful' response as he pleaded with her to stay quiet. He feared it could derail his political career when he was on the cusp of becoming Labor leader.  In a detailed affidavit, the former Prime Minister's daughter explained that she told her father of the alleged rape soon afterward at their Melbourne family home. 'You can't go to the police,' she claims her father said. 'You can't. I can't have any controversies right now. I am sorry but I am challenging for the leadership of the Labor Party.' Ms Dillon admitted she was 'shocked and hurt that (my father) asked this of me'. As a result of pressure from her father, once one of Australia's most beloved politicians, she never went to the police. Now a mother-of-two, she explained she was still 'haunted' by the assaults as she was never able to get closure because of her father's demands. 'I thought to myself, I could not make any bigger sacrifice to the (my father's) political career if I had tried,' the affidavit said. 'He asked me to let the matter go for him and I did so for him.' 'I am still haunted by the sexual assaults. I feel that I may have had a chance to get over these rapes if I was able to report the incidents to police.' According to an affidavit submitted by Rosslyn Dillon, she told her father about the rapes in the 1980s. Dillon: 'Bill (Landeryou) has raped me three times.' Hawke: 'What? he touched you?' Dillon: 'No, he forced me to have sex with him three times. I want to go to police.' Hawke: 'You can't. I can't have any controversies right now. I am sorry but I am challenging for the leadership of the Labor Party. You can't go to police.' At the time, Mr Hawke was close friends with Landeryou, an MP in the Victorian Upper House. He was one of Mr Hawke's chief supporters in his bid to become prime minister, and had his own state funeral held in March.   Ms Dillon went on to say that soon after the rapes, she fell pregnant and initially planned an abortion, having feared the child was Landeryou's. But she soon discovered the late MP was unable to have children, so kept the baby - her now grown son David - on the assumption it was  her husband Matt's child. Ms Dillon had been using heroin in the early 1980s when her father intervened to get her a job in Mr Landeryou's office. It was then the sexual touching began, she claimed. 'During the time I was employed there I was often alone in Landeryou's office. At some time he started to touch me in a sexual way,' she stated. 'Landeryou sexually assaulted me three times – at the Hilton Hotel, at Parliament House and at his home in Sunshine, where he sneaked into the spare room where I was sleeping.' Mr Hawke took over the Labor leadership from Bill Hayden in February of 1983 and the following month led the ALP to an election victory which began 13 years in power.  Ms Dillon submitted the allegations as part of her claim for a larger chunk of her late father's estate. The 59-year old former drug addict was left $750,000 from the estate of Australia's longest-serving Labor prime minister, following his death in May aged 89. She claimed that this does not provide adequate provision for her. Her eldest sister Sue, 62, and brother Stephen, 60, are also being left the same amount, as is Mr Hawke's stepson Louis Pratt. His widow and biographer Blanche d'Alpuget was left with everything else, including his luxury $9.2 million mansion and $3.6million apartment overlooking Sydney Harbour. Mr Hawke caused controversy when he married his biographer Ms d'Alpuget, with whom he had conducted a long-running affair before leaving his wife in 1995. His divorce from his wife of 38 years, Hazel Hawke, left him estranged from his children for years.   
