{ By Matilda Rudd For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:20, 8 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7753919/Pilot-lost-wife-five-months-diagnosed-cancer-reveals-silent-symptoms.html }
Alex Sparkes was ecstatic to learn his wife of three years was expecting their second child in 2017.  Hayley, 34, had always wanted to be a mum and the exciting news meant she would fulfil her dream a second time round. The couple, who first met in high school, already shared a daughter, Maisy, who came into their lives less than a year after they tied the knot at Shelly Beach, Manly, in 2014. But on a regular Monday in September Hayley was getting ready for work - with Alex, 36, preparing Maisy for preschool - when her back gave out. She was in excruciating pain and couldn't move, so her husband called an ambulance.  But women of Hayley's age and level of fitness don't just break their backs.  Doctors spent two weeks conducting tests before they told the Sparkes family that her bones had been weakened to the point where they fractured.  Stage four pancreatic cancer had ravaged her body, the same one that was 17 weeks pregnant. In order to give her the best chance of surviving, and the most amount of treatment options, Alex and Hayley had a difficult decision to make. 'We consulted paediatricians and oncologists before deciding, at 18 weeks, not to continue the pregnancy,' Alex told FEMAIL. 'At 20 weeks the abortion process becomes more technical with a death certificate so that's why we made the decision within a week.' The symptoms most pancreatic cancer sufferers feel are extremely close to normal pregnancy symptoms, which made it difficult for the Sparkes' to know anything was wrong.  General nausea, vomiting, weight loss, a loss of appetite, tiredness and pain in the upper abdomen can all be experienced by women who are expecting a baby. Hayley started treatment soon after with rounds of chemotherapy and local radiation targeted on her back where the bones had fractured. But at the beginning of 2018 the cancer had spread to her brain and intense radiation had to begin in that area too. Chemotherapy was put on hold. Pancreatic cancer is the tenth most common cancer in men and ninth most common in women in Australia. Pancreatic cancer is the fifth most common cause of cancer death. The symptoms include pain in the upper abdomen, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, weight loss, changed bowel motions - either diarrhoea or severe constipation and jaundice.  Alex wasn't working his usual job as a pilot at this stage and focused his entire energy on remaining positive for Hayley and his daughter.  But on March 14, a week before their fourth year wedding anniversary, Hayley lost her battle to cancer. She was surrounded by Alex, her parents and close friends. It was five months after her diagnosis. 'I would like to see pancreatic cancer share the same profile as better known cancers like breast and prostate,' Alex said.  While more than 3,000 Australians will be diagnosed with the disease each year it's the least funded cancer and the survival rate beyond five years is nine per cent.  'We don't really have any type of screening for pancreatic cancer so I want to bring it out of the darkness and let people know what to look out for,' he continued. More than a year later Alex is preparing to celebrate Maisy's fifth birthday and her starting the school year. 'She gets upset from time to time because she has lost her mum but overall kids are super resilient,' Alex said.   There is hope that one day another little girl and boy won't have to say goodbye to their mother as a result of a silent cancer. For more information please visit Pancare Foundation.  
