abortion
{ By Ellie May Donohoe At Mailonline   Published:  17:47, 7 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7767155/Jameela-Jamil-claps-trolls-shamed-abortion-seven-years-ago.html }
Jameela Jamil has clapped back at angry twitter trolls who shamed her for an abortion she had seven years ago.  In a tweet posted to her own Twitter account on Friday, The Good Place star, 33, referenced how happy and successful she is after trolls suggested she must be miserable.  The beauty said: 'Receiving THOUSANDS of messages about how I made a mistake having an abortion 7 years ago and how I must be a miserable person...   'I am in fact a happy, thriving multi millionaire, madly in love, with free time, good sleep and a wonderful career and life. But thanks for checking' Earlier in the week she first called out the people sending negative messages to her by saying: 'To the people trolling me and Gloria Steinem because we said there is no democracy without a woman’s right to choose...  'I SAID WHAT I F***ING SAID and you’re clueless if you think I’m going to take it back. My life *is* more important to me than an unborn fetus’ one. Suck on that'.  She further defended herself against comments calling her out for bragging about her millionaire status,  she responded: 'You can’t handle a woman bragging.  'This is what women can achieve when we are given autonomy over our bodies and lives.  'And I don’t give a FLYING f*** how crass you think it is for me to state fact about how Well I am doing after my abortion that people tell me was a mistake'.  Despite proudly discussing her wealth, Jameela spoke last month of her money woes.  She opened up to People magazine about her many mistakes with managing her finances and how she 'lost all of her money' by the age of 30. The star, who has previously detailed growing up in a 'poor' household, admitted to PEOPLE that she was 'never set up to protect herself financially', and subsequently made a series of bad mistakes after she first began earning money at 22. The activist also confessed that not knowing how to file her taxes properly, picking up the tabs of pals who were earning less than her and online shopping in a bid to cure her depression further led to her 'reaching rock bottom at thirty.' Jameela has now made a huge name for herself after starring in NBC's The Good Place, while also being a passionate advocate for feminism and body positivity.     
