{ By Eliza Mcphee For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  13:19, 7 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7766725/Israel-Folau-rejected-South-African-super-rugby-team-Bulls-Rugby-Australia-payout.html }
Israel Folau's options for reviving his sporting career include a return to the National Rugby League or a move abroad to play rugby but one potential employer has ruled out a move for the ex-Wallabies fullback. Folau has remained in training during his legal action against Rugby Australia which concluded last week with a multi-million settlement. The sporting body had sacked him for a social media post including a biblical passage that said gays and other sinners would go to hell unless they repent. While Folau said he was 'vindicated' by the lucrative settlement and apology from RA, his strong views clearly remain an obstacle to some rugby teams. Alfons Meyer, the chief executive of the Pretoria-based Bulls of Super Rugby told Netwerk24 that Folau's comments ruled him out as a potential recruit for the upcoming season. 'A lawyer approached us to hear if we are interested in contracting him,' Mr Meyer said. 'Initially I was excited but if you look at this matter with a sober mind then it's simply not worth the risk. He is controversial and you'll expose yourself by contracting him.  'He is probably amongst the top two or three players in the world. If it wasn't for his comments, we would have given our all to have him in the group.' Outside of Super Rugby, Folau was likely to have suitors from European and Japanese teams to continue in the sport.  He has reportedly been training up to three hours a day in order to get himself in shape for an immediate return to the elite level.  The Sunday Telegraph reported some NRL clubs are interested in Folau, despite  Peter V'landys - the newly appointed chairman of the Australian Rugby League Commission - publicly opposing his return to the sport. 'The game is inclusive. Israel's comments are not inclusive,' Mr V'landys said before the legal action went in Folau's favour.  'I have no tolerance for people that put other people's lives (at risk) or (commit) violence. It's a big statement to make. 'With due respect to Israel, what he says, young kids listen to. He is a role model. They act on it. And when you're a kid at school and you get bashed up because you're different, I don't think that's a good thing.' Folau played four seasons in the NRL, with the Melbourne Storm and Brisbane Broncos, before a short-lived stint in the AFL and then a move to rugby union.  After he was sacked by RA, Folau made a $10 million claim for wrongful dismissal, which he increased to $14 million last week. Both sides issued apologies on Wednesday after a rumoured multi-million dollar settlement, but Folau did not change his position on homosexuals going to hell.  After the fall-out, he thanked God alongside his 32-year-old wife Maria. It was initally reported that he walked away with a figure close to $8 million, but Rugby Australia disputed the sum, and other news reports have estimated an amount of $3-4 million.  He apologised for any 'hurt or harm caused' but did not step back from his original anti-gay claim.    By agreeing to an out-of-court settlement - the terms of which are confidential - the sport's governing body has saved itself further crippling legal costs.  It had come under fire by some for sacking Folau over his religious beliefs.   While the case was ongoing Folau had made another inflammatory statement at his family's church, linking the drought and bushfires to the legalisation of same-sex marriage and abortion.   Rugby Australia, NSW Rugby and Israel Folau have today settled their legal dispute following the dismissal of Israel Folau after he posted a religious message on social media (the Social Media Post). The Social Media Post reflected Mr Folau's genuinely held religious beliefs, and Mr Folau did not want to harm or offend any person when he uploaded the Social Media Post. Mr Folau wants all Australians to know that he does not condone discrimination of any kind against any person on the grounds of their sexuality and that he shares Rugby Australia's commitment to inclusiveness and diversity. Rugby Australia and NSW Rugby do not in any way agree with the content of the Social Media Post. Inclusiveness is one of Rugby's core values and it welcomes all people to the game, including all members of the LGBTI community. While it was not Rugby Australia's intention, Rugby Australia acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused to the Folaus. Similarly, Mr Folau did not intend to hurt or harm the game of rugby and acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused. Rugby Australia and Mr Folau wish each other well for the future. The parties do not intend to comment further on the terms of their settlement as it is confidential.   
