abortion
{ By Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  11:33, 7 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7766671/Bob-Hawkes-daughter-claims-ordered-stay-quiet-raped-three-times-Labor-MP.html }
The daughter of former Prime Minister Bob Hawke claimed she was raped by a Labor MP, but her father begged her to stay silent for the sake of his own political career. Rosslyn Dillon alleged she was raped three times in the 1980s by Bill Landeryou, a close friend of Mr Hawke, who died in February. But as she turned to her father for comfort, she said she was met with a 'shocking and hurtful' response as he pleaded with her to stay quiet. He feared it could derail his political career when he was on the cusp of becoming Labor leader. The explosive allegations came as Ms Dillon lodged a $4 million legal claim on much of her father's estate following his death in May. In a detailed affidavit reported upon by The New Daily, the former Prime Minister's daughter explained that she told her father of the alleged rape soon afterward at their Melbourne family home. 'You can't go to the police,' she claims her father said. 'You can't. I can't have any controversies right now. I am sorry but I am challenging for the leadership of the Labor Party.' Ms Dillon admitted she was 'shocked and hurt that (my father) asked this of me'. As a result of pressure from her father, once one of Australia's most beloved politicians, she never went to the police. Now a mother-of-two, she explained she was still 'haunted' by the assaults as she was never able to get closure because of her father's demands. 'I thought to myself, I could not make any bigger sacrifice to the (my father's) political career if I had tried,' the affidavit said. 'He asked me to let the matter go for him and I did so for him.' 'I am still haunted by the sexual assaults. I feel that I may have had a chance to get over these rapes if I was able to report the incidents to police.' At the time, Mr Hawke was close friends with Landeryou, an MP in the Victorian Upper House. According to an affidavit submitted by Rosslyn Dillon, she told her father about the rapes in the 1980s. Dillon: 'Bill (Landeryou) has raped me three times.' Hawke: 'What? he touched you?' Dillon: 'No, he forced me to have sex with him three times. I want to go to police.' Hawke: 'You can't. I can't have any controversies right now. I am sorry but I am challenging for the leadership of the Labor Party. You can't go to police.' He was one of Mr Hawke's chief supporters in his bid to become prime minister, and had his own state funeral held in March. In her legal bid for a larger chunk of her late father's multi-million dollar estate - much of which was left to Mr Hawke's second wife Blanche d'Alpuget - she claimed it doesn't provide adequate family provision for her. She said this is because she suffers from depression, anxiety and PTSD and is dependent on welfare payments.  Another of Mr Hawke's daughters, Sue Pieters-Hawke, told the website that the family knew of the rape allegations and that they had distressed their father. She insisted the family were supportive at the time but that it 'didn't involve using the legal system'. Ms Dillon went on to say that soon after the rapes, she fell pregnant and initially planned an abortion, having feared the child was Landeryou's. But she soon discovered the late MP was unable to have children, so kept the baby - her now grown son David - on the assumption it was  her husband Matt's child. Ms Dillon had been using heroin in the early 1980s when her father intervened to get her a job in Mr Landeryou's office. It was then the sexual touching began, she claimed. 'During the time I was employed there I was often alone in Landeryou's office. At some time he started to touch me in a sexual way,' she stated. 'Landeryou sexually assaulted me three times – at the Hilton Hotel, at Parliament House and at his home in Sunshine, where he sneaked into the spare room where I was sleeping.' Mr Hawke took over the Labor leadership from Bill Hayden in February of 1983 and the following month led the ALP to an election victory which began 13 years in power.  Ms Dillon submitted the allegations as part of her claim for a larger chunk of her late father's estate. The 59-year old former drug addict was left $750,000 from the estate of Australia's longest-serving Labor prime minister, following his death in May aged 89. She claimed that this does not provide adequate provision for her. Her eldest sister Sue, 62, and brother Stephen, 60, are also being left the same amount, as is Mr Hawke's stepson Louis Pratt. His widow and biographer Blanche d'Alpuget was left with everything else, including his luxury $9.2million mansion and $3.6million apartment overlooking Sydney Harbour. Mr Hawke's caused controversy when he married his biographer Ms d'Alpuget, with whom he had conducted a long-running affair before leaving his wife in 1995. His divorce from his wife of 38 years, Hazel Masterson, left him estranged from his children for years. Early life Oxford University  Unions  MP to Prime Minister Achievements as Prime Minister Downfall as Prime Minister Personal life      
