abortion
{ By Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  08:15, 6 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7762861/Israel-Folau-spotted-wife-time-multi-million-dollar-rugby-settlement.html }
Israel Folau and his wife Maria seemed happy and relaxed as they were spotted for the first time since his multi-million dollar settlement from Rugby Australia. The rugby star walked through Sydney Airport on Friday with his netball player wife, who looked glamorous in a white skirt and relaxed striped blouse.  The cross code superstar, 30, had his lucrative contract torn up in May after sharing an anti-gay post on social media. He made a $10 million claim for wrongful dismissal, which he increased to $14 million last week. Both sides issued apologies on Wednesday after a rumoured multi-million dollar settlement, but Folau did not change his position on homosexuals going to hell.  After the fall-out, he thanked God alongside his 32-year-old wife Maria. The former Wallaby fullback's decision to increase his compensation claim last week for his sacking over comments condemning homosexuals stunned many in the rugby world.  It is understood he eventually walked away with a figure close to $8 million, but Rugby Australia has disputed the sum.  He apologised for any 'hurt or harm caused' but did not step back from his original anti-gay claim.   The unemployed Folau was helped by well-wishers with a $3 million war chest at his disposal from a crowd-funding campaign. By agreeing to an out-of-court settlement - the terms of which are confidential - the sport's governing body has saved itself further crippling legal costs.  It had come under fire by some for sacking Folau over his religious beliefs.   The Daily Telegraph reported the payout was $8million but Rugby Australia CEO Raelene Castle said in a tweet: 'Folau settlement numbers are confidential but numbers being speculated are wildly inaccurate.' While the case was ongoing Folau had made another inflammatory statement at his family's church, linking the drought and bushfires to the legalisation of same-sex marriage and abortion. 'We are extremely pleased with the settlement reached today,' Folau said in a video earlier this week. 'Maria and I would like to thank God for his guidance and strength.' Folau hoped the case would lead to greater religious freedom. 'We started this journey on behalf of all people of faith to protect their rights of freedom of speech and religion,' he said. 'We now look forward to the federal government enacting the legislation necessary to further protect and strengthen these rights for all Australians.' Rugby Australia chief Raelene Castle was also holding the line on Monday, stating she had received messages supporting cash-strapped Rugby Australia's decision to sack Folau. 'That leaves us in no doubt that we are doing what's right,' Ms Castle told reporters. 'Israel's commentary subsequent to his termination has only reinforced this belief.' 'Israel admitted he had caused harm with his comments and stated that he would not curb his social media use and will post whatever he likes whenever he feels the need to share his views.' 'They've legalised same-sex marriage... going against the laws that God says,' he said in footage posted in November. 'Abortion - it's OK now to murder and kill infants, unborn children - and they deem that to be OK. 'Look how rapid these bushfires, these droughts, all these things they've come in a short period of time - you think it's a coincidence?' Even some of Folau's fiercest defenders objected to those statements.  Both sides issued apologies on Wednesday but Folau did not change his position on homosexuals going to hell.   Rugby Australia, NSW Rugby and Israel Folau have today settled their legal dispute following the dismissal of Israel Folau after he posted a religious message on social media (the Social Media Post). The Social Media Post reflected Mr Folau's genuinely held religious beliefs, and Mr Folau did not want to harm or offend any person when he uploaded the Social Media Post. Mr Folau wants all Australians to know that he does not condone discrimination of any kind against any person on the grounds of their sexuality and that he shares Rugby Australia's commitment to inclusiveness and diversity. Rugby Australia and NSW Rugby do not in any way agree with the content of the Social Media Post. Inclusiveness is one of Rugby's core values and it welcomes all people to the game, including all members of the LGBTI community. While it was not Rugby Australia's intention, Rugby Australia acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused to the Folaus. Similarly, Mr Folau did not intend to hurt or harm the game of rugby and acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused. Rugby Australia and Mr Folau wish each other well for the future. The parties do not intend to comment further on the terms of their settlement as it is confidential. 
