{ By Ralph R. Ortega For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:58, 5 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7758001/Forty-eight-undocumented-immigrants-worked-Trump-reveal-presidents-private-life.html }
Forty-eight undocumented immigrants have come forward saying they worked for Donald Trump before he was president.  The immigrants say they worked for Trump at 11 of his properties in Florida, New Jersey, New York, and Virginia for years, in some cases nearly two decades. Their tell-all has provided a unique look into Trump's world, including his love for Tic Tacs, and use of orange face makeup, as well as his way of discarding old clothes which were handed-down to his father-in-law. The immigrants' story also shows how Trump's stand against illegal immigration has upended the lives of the workers, reports the Washington Post. Many who spoke to the news outlet, were either fired or left their jobs after media reports came out about their employment.   Sandra Diaz, among the undocumented immigrants who said they worked for Trump, detailed how she worked as his housekeeper in Bedminster. She and her successor, Victoria Morales, said they were speaking out because if the president's 'hypocrisy' after denouncing illegal immigration. Trump, they insisted, employed undocumented workers, including them, they said. 'How can you know something so big, how someone - who goes on national television and says something - and you know it's not true', Diaz told the Post. 'Whether it's the president or not, you have the responsibility to say no. To pass through this barrier of fear and say no'. Diaz recalled how she worked at the Trump villa in Bedminster.  She had to pull her hair back, wear latex gloves and slip paper coverings over her shoes, and avoid wearing perfume or makeup to ensure she left no trace of her presence once finished working inside the villa. As Trump's personal maid, the Costa Rican immigrant had used a $50 fake Social Security number to gain employment.  Under orders from her boss, Diaz said she would hang six sets of identical golf outfits in his closet, including six white polo shirts, six pairs of beige pants, and six neatly ironed boxer shorts.  She also had to make sure that his orange, Bronx Colors brand face makeup had not dried up. Trump allegedly insisted on having two full containers, plus one that was half-full.  His housekeepers often had to bring in new shirts from the pro shop when rust-colored stains appeared on the collars of his old ones.  His wife Melania, as a result, kept a laundry machine for herself for her clothing.  Trump also reportedly kept Tic Tacs on top his bedroom bureau, again two full containers and another that was half full.  His soap of choice was Irish Spring, which could not be replaced by the housekeeping staff, even when it was worn down.  Trump made the call on when to throw something out, his former staff claim. Whether it was newspapers or old clothes, he would just drop items on the floor.  His father-in-law Viktor Knavs was reportedly the recipient of Trump's old clothes. 'They're the same size and everything', Morales told the Post. But Trump wasn't always excited to see Melania's dad wearing his hand-me-downs. In 2013, the father-in-law was out on the golf course wearing one of Trump's discarded red baseball caps. Trump spotted him and demanded he take the hate off and leave the course.  Diaz and Morales were in the villa when Knavs returned, threw the hat on the ground and cursed his son-in-law, the Post reports.   'Nobody could wear the red hat but [Trump]', Diaz said.  Employees at Trump's property in Westchester, New York, said that even before he became president, his arrival there brought everyone to attention, using the code 'GG-7', for when he was coming, which was the same as his registration one of his old license plates. Trump was involved with the staff, especially about how this properties looked, from floor coverings to light fixtures, to art hanging on the walls.  'I carried the paintings', said Gabriel Sedano, a Mexican immigrant on the maintenance staff in Bedminister, referring to portraits of Trump that he he helped hang around the property. 'He said where he wanted them'.  Morales, 47, who is from Guatemala, said she remembered once washing windows at the pro shop in Bedminster. At 4 feet, 11-inches, she had difficulty reaching the top portion of the window. 'I was jumping and jumping and I saw the guys inside were laughing. I thought, 'I don't like that'', she recalled to the Post.  That's when, 'He took the rag', she said referring to Trump. 'And he started to clean'.   Wendy Reyes remembered that on election night in 2016 at Trump International Hotel in Washington, DC, one of the American chefs was cheering, 'We are winning!' She, however, wasn't as jubilant.  'You're not going to have that same smile when you come into the restaurant and you see that nobody's working here because Donald Trump has thrown us all out of the country', she said she responded, the Post reports. Latin American immigrants on the staff were growing increasingly isolated and uncomfortable over time.  Reyes, among the staff working at BLT Prime, the hotel restaurant.  Some of the undocumented employees had grown so worried, that a week before Trump was sworn into office, some had net with a manager to say they might have to leave over their immigration status, fearing deportation. 'There wasn't any problem', the manager told them, Reyes said. 'He said they had talked to the hotel and everything was going to be fine'. The president, who still owns the Trump organization, but has left control to his sons, has previously said he doesn't know if the properties employ undocumented workers. 'Well, that I don't know. Because I don't run it', he told reporters in July.  'But I would say this,' he added. 'Probably every club in the United States has that, because it seems to me, from what I understand, a way that people did business'. White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham, after reviewing the anecdotes in the Post's story said 'the assertions made for this story are not only false, they are a disgusting attempt at invading the privacy of the First Family'.  'This is not journalism — it is fabricated tabloid trash'. A spokesperson for BLT Prime, which is not part of the Trump Organization, did not immediately respond when the Post reached out for comment. As Trump's stand on immigration polices became clear, and more conservative organizations and guests began showing up at his properties, the culture at his resorts and golf courses began changing.  Plus, the first family was accompanied by Secret Service agent, driving up concerns for undocumented immigrants on the payroll even more. One undocumented worker who worked on the banquet staff at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, said he started not showing up at events that seemed too political.  'I didn't feel comfortable working over there. That atmosphere. A lot of conservative people talking about abortion or gay marriage', said the former employee, who requested anonymity to avoid hurting his relationships at the club.  'I got kind of tired of all these anti-immigration [events]'.  Coming forward with their stories also had a backlash on the former Trump workers, within their immigrant communities where some complained the ex-workers had turned against their own. Diaz and Morales said they found themselves at odds with their friends and colleagues in Bound Brook, New Jersey.  'What she is doing is stabbing the others in the back', said a Bedminster greenskeeper who was from Diaz's hometown in Costa Rica, in a text message to texted a group of colleagues after she was quoted in the New York Times.  'What an embarrassment that she is from my barrio', the greenskeeper said. Friends accused Diaz of risking people's jobs, and leaving them open to deportation.  Those concerns became a reality when Trump's son Eric said the Trump Organization was going to be 'making a broad effort to identify any employee who has given false and fraudulent documents to unlawfully gain employment', following news reports of such practices. That's exactly what ended up happening for many after audits of the legal status of employees led to terminations. An exact number is not known. The Post confirmed 18 workers were fired at five golf courses in New York and New Jersey.  Former workers in Bedminster say that 30 to 40 uncodumentedworkers were cut from the staff this spring.   'Our employees are like family, but when presented with fake documents, an employer has little choice', Eric Trump told The Post earlier this year. 
