abortion
{ By Stephen Gibbs for Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:29, 5 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7757865/How-Israel-Folau-outflanked-old-rugby-bosses-walked-away-8million.html }
Israel Folau might have outmanoeuvred Rugby Australia with even more finesse than he has shown bamboozling opponents on the football field over the years. From a seemingly vulnerable position the former Wallaby fullback pulled out one final ambitious play to blow his former bosses off the field. Folau's move last week to increase his compensation claim from $10million to $14million for his sacking over comments condemning homosexuals stunned many in the rugby world. He also made the extraordinary claim he could have captained the Wallabies, despite never having led a football team. Folau has now walked away with up to $8million - a figure disputed by Rugby Australia as fanciful - and an apology, without stepping back from his original claim that unrepentant gays will go to hell.   The unemployed Folau had the time and money to keep fighting - there was a $3million war chest at his disposal from a successful crowd-funding campaign. Rugby Australia was embroiled in a public relations disaster and being hammered by Folau supporters, including some from its own sporting community.  By agreeing to an out-of-court settlement - the terms of which are confidential - the sport's governing body has saved itself further crippling legal costs.  The Daily Telegraph reported the payout was $8million but Rugby Australia CEO Raelene Castle said in a tweet: 'Folau settlement numbers are confidential but numbers being speculated are wildly inaccurate.' On Thursday morning Ms Castle said she was 'comfortable' with the settlement and Rugby Australia had an insurance policy in place which may cover it. 'I can't talk about the settlement numbers, but we're in a better position than if we went to court,' Ms Castle said. 'We had a number that we knew was more cost effective to us to settle.' As for Folau ever returning to rugby, Ms Castle believed he would refuse to sign the contract conditions the game would stipulate. 'I think it's clear to see that our values are not aligned and the expectations that Rugby Australia would have of Israel coming back into the sport would not be acceptable,' she said. But she could not definitively say Folau would never again don a Wallabies jersey. 'Never say never, right? It would be crazy for me to say that.' Ms Castle said that settling with Folau was not backing down but was a financial decision to save Rugby Australia money. Folau, who missed the World Cup and has no job to go to, had been on a four-year contact worth a little more than $1million a year. That contract was torn up in April after Folau posted on Instagram that hell awaited homosexuals and other 'sinners' including drunks and adulterers who did not repent. Rugby Australia had previously warned him about his social media use sharing similar sentiments.  Folau refused to back down and took on the under-siege Ms Castle in a battle some considered to be over free speech. On Monday the parties spent 13 hours in Federal Court-ordered mediation in Melbourne but could not resolve their differences. Before those negotiations Folau posted a video on his website setting out his position.   'I understand that not everyone shares my faith and some find it difficult to reconcile with their own beliefs,' he said. 'I want to be clear that I only share passages from the Bible as a gesture of love. 'We pray that we might all find redemption and peace in the words of the Lord Jesus Christ as we head to today's mediation, we also ask that He watches over us, so that both parties might realise the courage to uphold the truth.' Ms Castle was also holding the line on Monday, stating she had received messages supporting cash-strapped Rugby Australia's decision to sack Folau. 'That leaves us in no doubt that we are doing what's right,' Ms Castle told reporters. 'Israel's commentary subsequent to his termination has only reinforced this belief.' 'Israel admitted he had caused harm with his comments and stated that he would not curb his social media use and will post whatever he likes whenever he feels the need to share his views.' While the case was ongoing Folau had made another inflammatory statement at his family's church, linking the drought and bushfires to the legalisation of same-sex marriage and abortion. 'They've legalised same-sex marriage... going against the laws that God says,' he said in footage posted in November. 'Abortion - it's OK now to murder and kill infants, unborn children - and they deem that to be OK. 'Look how rapid these bushfires, these droughts, all these things they've come in a short period of time - you think it's a coincidence?' Even some of Folau's fiercest defenders objected to those statements.  Both sides issued apologies on Wednesday but Folau did not change his position on homosexuals going to hell.   Rugby Australia, NSW Rugby and Israel Folau have today settled their legal dispute following the dismissal of Israel Folau after he posted a religious message on social media (the Social Media Post). The Social Media Post reflected Mr Folau's genuinely held religious beliefs, and Mr Folau did not want to harm or offend any person when he uploaded the Social Media Post. Mr Folau wants all Australians to know that he does not condone discrimination of any kind against any person on the grounds of their sexuality and that he shares Rugby Australia's commitment to inclusiveness and diversity. Rugby Australia and NSW Rugby do not in any way agree with the content of the Social Media Post. Inclusiveness is one of Rugby's core values and it welcomes all people to the game, including all members of the LGBTI community. While it was not Rugby Australia's intention, Rugby Australia acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused to the Folaus. Similarly, Mr Folau did not intend to hurt or harm the game of rugby and acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused. Rugby Australia and Mr Folau wish each other well for the future. The parties do not intend to comment further on the terms of their settlement as it is confidential.   'The social media post reflected Mr Folau's genuinely held religious beliefs, and Mr Folau did not intend to harm or offend any person when he uploaded the social media post,' Rugby Australia said on Wednesday.  'Mr Folau wants all Australians to know that he does not condone discrimination of any kind against any person on the ground of their sexuality and that he shares Rugby Australia's commitment to inclusiveness and diversity.' 'While it was not Rugby Australia's intention, Rugby Australia acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused to the Folaus.  'Similarly, Mr Folau did not intend to hurt or harm the game of rugby and acknowledges and apologises for any hurt or harm caused.' Folau and his netballer wife Maria were triumphant, claiming their fundamentalist Christian family had been vindicated by Wednesday's agreement. 'We are extremely pleased with the settlement reached today,' Folau said in a video. 'Maria and I would like to thank God for his guidance and strength.' Folau hoped the case would lead to greater religious freedom. 'We started this journey on behalf of all people of faith to protect their rights of freedom of speech and religion,' he said. 'We now look forward to the federal government enacting the legislation necessary to further protect and strengthen these rights for all Australians.' Folau, who had been a rugby league star before swapping to rugby, played 73 Tests for the Wallabies. Rugby league's governing body has said he will not play for them. After the settlement Rugby Australia and Folau wished each other well for the future. 
