{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  14:38, 4 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7755337/Loose-Women-viewers-clash-morning-pill-available-counter.html }
Loose Women sparked a debate over the availability of the morning after pill on today's show as Janet Street-Porter called for an end to the 'policing of women's bodies'. The journalist, 72, who grew up in Fulham, West London, confessed that she made 'impulsive decisions' as a teen and had two abortions, but believes it's a woman's right to choose without a 'third party' having a 'moral position' on it.  This comes after a new report by the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists said that emergency contraception should 'be sold straight off the shelf', in the same way as condoms and pregnancy tests.  Viewers quickly took to Twitter to share their views, with some arguing the process is already straightforward enough, while others said women should be trusted to make choices about their own bodies.    Janet said: 'I do think when you're a teenager you make all sorts of impulsive decisions and one of them might be to have sex.  'Looking back at my own experiences, falling pregnant twice as a teenager, I had two abortions before I was 19.  'I just had that mindset and the pill wasn't readily available. I worked in a chemist, I was a Saturday girl, and at that time men had to come in and ask for condoms and you could see them cringing.  'Even now when I have to go into a pharmacy and ask for something, I can't handle discussing my body with the person standing on the other side of the counter.  'I think it's a woman's right to decide to get this pill if she wants it, and I don't want a third party having a moral position on it.'  Viewers quickly took to Twitter to share their views, and while some felt that making it available off the counter would free up GP's and pharmacists' time for 'serious medical problems', others felt the pills shouldn't be doled out 'like sweets'  'It should be off the shelf. I work in retail and had a girl asking for it yesterday morning.  'We don't stock it, so then I was looking on the net for a chemist that was open for her to go to before work. Poor girl just wanted the pill,' said one.  'Yes. It's about time the medical profession started trusting women to know best about our own bodies and making our own choices.  'The policing of women's bodies should be a thing of the past,' agreed another.  Another commented: 'Anything to free up GP appointments for serious illnesses.'  However some felt it was already easy, and the pill shouldn't be taken 'flippantly'.  One said: 'It is straightforward to get it from the pharmacist. At least people are getting proper advice that it is for emergencies and not to be bought flippantly.'  Another said: 'People should be more responsible. What happened to safe sex. Condoms, at least. Morning after pill shouldn't be able to be got like sweets.'  Earlier this year, Janet told of her harrowing teenage backstreet abortion after falling pregnant as a teen.   Speaking candidly about her traumatic experience, she revealed: 'I found out that I was pregnant and I just did not know what to do. 'Back then abortions were illegal and they were very, very hard to get. And I remember going up to the West End and asking around in clubs for pills that might end my pregnancy. And taking a whole cocktail of dodgy drugs. 'Nothing happened apart from I was really, really sick.'  When one of her co-hosts asked if there was an adult she could confide in, Janet admitted she had a 'terrible relationship' with her parents and kept it to herself at first. 'I wasn't sexually promiscuous,' she explained. 'I had just one boyfriend, for quite some time. And I just kept thinking how stupid of me, because I had messed my exams up.' Janet went on: 'Eventually someone helped me out and told me about a backstreet abortionist in North London. They wanted 25 quid in cash and I got the money out of my post office account.' Describing the day the illegal abortion took place, Janet told how she 'still dreams' about the walk from the London Underground station to the stranger's home. She said: 'I knocked on the door and went into a flat upstairs. And I don't want to go into detail on daytime telly, but obviously I wasn't very old and this woman told me to get on the kitchen table and then it happened.'  
