abortion
{ By Danyal Hussain For Mailonline   Published:  12:44, 4 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7754877/Christmas-cards-sent-Queen-Prince-Philip-married-couple-Balmoral-staff-25-years.html }
A series of Christmas cards sent by the Royal Family over 25 years to a married couple on their staff are going under the hammer. The cards will be up for auction on December 7, with most of them sent by the Queen and Prince Philip, and they show the changing face of the monarchy from the black-and-white post war world to the colourful 1970s. They were sent to the married couple who worked at Balmoral, the wife working in the house and the husband on the estate. The first from 1947 is signed by King George VI and the Queen Mother and includes a photo of them at a piano with Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret playing. Although George died in February 1952, the Queen had taken over many of her father's Royal duties months before and the 1951 card is the first to be signed by her and Philip.  Roddy Lloyd, from Rowleys, said: 'These were consigned by the daughter of a couple who both worked at Balmoral. 'She worked in service at the house and the husband was an estate worker. The Royal family must have regarded the couple in high esteem and each is signed in ink - 'Elizabeth R' and 'Philip' - part from the earliest which is signed by King George. 'This really is a wonderful piece of history, showing as it does the growth of the Royal family - you can see the children grow up through these photographs. It also shows them smiling and enjoying themselves just like any other family. They will appeal to collectors of royal memorabilia.'  The following year they bizarrely included a speedboat in the family photo, with all six of them roaring with laughter. In 1970 they sent a photo of the Royal Yacht Britannia in Sydney Harbour, a nod to a Royal tour of Australia that year to mark the bi-centenary anniversary of James Cook's first voyage Down Under. In 1971 and 1972 they included family photos with all the members in high spirits. The photos are being sold at Rowley's auction house in Ely, Cambridgeshire, with estimates of between £100 and £150 per card. 
