{ By David Martosko, U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:11, 3 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7752137/Kamala-Harris-drops-2020-presidential-race-cratering-poll-numbers.html }
Kamala Harris engaged in a Twitter spat with Donald Trump hours after she dropped out of the 2020 presidential race on Tuesday 'with deep regret.' She and the president traded tweets in the wake of her becoming the biggest name to quit the 2020 field.  Harris cited her campaign's financial woes as a major reason for her exit from the White House race, taking a veiled shot at former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg and onetime hedge fund manager Tom Steyer as she left. 'My campaign for president simply doesn't have the financial resources we need to continue,' she wrote in an online essay. 'I'm not a billionaire. I can't fund my own campaign. And as the campaign has gone on, it's become harder and harder to raise the money we need to compete.' Bloomberg did not respond to her attack - but another billionaire did, with Donald Trump tweeting from London, where he is at a NATO summit: 'Too bad. We will miss you Kamala!' prompting her to respond: 'Don't worry, Mr President. I'll see you at your trial.' She was referring to her next role - as a juror at the almost-certain-to-happen impeachment trial of the president. Democrats in Congress will move towards drawing up articles of impeachment Wednesday.  At her campaign office in Oakland, CA,, staff left a happy birthday message which had been up since October 20, and a wall covered in messages about the candidate. The decision to quit makes her the biggest name to get out of the 2020 field, and the third to go since Sunday.  Other senators in the race including Michael Benet of Colorado mighty have been more considered more likely to quit before Harris, but her timing appears to be an attempt to avert a catastrophic political meltdown for the first-term senator. Harris' timing is significant because she wasn't yet registered in her home state as a presidential candidate, and the deadline is December 6. Polls in California indicated that she would have an anemic showing—an outcome that would signal a slide from juggernaut to weakness. That could invite primary challengers for her own Senate seat, which she must defend in the 2022 elections.  Harris, 55, struggled to gain traction outside her native California, lagging behind the Democratic pack in poll after poll. She averaged 3 per cent support. Bloomberg splashed in with 6 per cent this week before he started campaigning. Some of Harris' aides are leaving her for Bloomberg's newly minted presidential campaign, a source with knowledge of their plans said Tuesday. The senator had already qualified for the December 19 Democratic primary debate in Los Angeles. Her absence leaves just seven candidates who have cleared the bar. Dropping out of the White House race will leave two African-Americans in an unusually diverse field—New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker and former Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick. Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro is the lone Latino vying for the Democratic nomination. Four women remain in the hunt, out of a field of 15 Democrats.  Harris said in an email to supporters that her campaign 'uniquely spoke to the experiences of Black women and people of color.' And she wrote that despite her lower profile she 'will do everything in my power to defeat Donald Trump.'  Harris would have been the first female president, the second black president and the first president of Indian-American heritage; her mother was born in India.  Harris' campaign seemed already on the ropes when news broke Sunday that her state operations director had quit in mid-November. Kelly Mehlenbacher left behind a stinging resignation letter (below). 'This is my third presidential campaign and I have never seen an organization treat its staff so poorly,' she wrote. The Harris campaign, which seemed primed for a boost after the first Democratic debate, had laid off some staff days earlier.  And internal friction between warring camps inside the campaign led cliques to take sides in disagreements between the candidate and her campaign chairman—her sister Maya.  Eleven months ago at the launch of our campaign in Oakland I told you all: 'I am not perfect. But I will always speak with decency and moral clarity and treat all people with dignity and respect. I will lead with integrity. I will speak the truth.' And that's what I have tried to do every day of this campaign. So here's the truth today. I've taken stock and looked at this from every angle, and over the last few days have come to one of the hardest decisions of my life. My campaign for president simply doesn't have the financial resources we need to continue. I'm not a billionaire. I can't fund my own campaign. And as the campaign has gone on, it's become harder and harder to raise the money we need to compete. In good faith, I can't tell you, my supporters and volunteers, that I have a path forward if I don't believe I do. So, to you my supporters, it is with deep regret -- but also with deep gratitude -- that I am suspending my campaign today. But I want to be clear with you: I am still very much in this fight. And I will keep fighting every day for what this campaign has been about. Justice for The People. All the people. Our campaign has been about fighting for people whose voices have not been heard or too often ignored. We will keep up that fight. Let's remember: we were the first to put the injustice of inadequate teacher pay on the national agenda. We will keep up that fight. We were the first to demand justice for our children, declaring we would take bold executive actions to stop gun violence. We will keep up that fight. We were the first to demand justice for women with a plan to block unconstitutional state abortion laws. We will keep up that fight. And our campaign uniquely spoke to the experiences of Black women and people of color -- and their importance to the success and future of this party. Our campaign demanded no one should be taken for granted by any political party. We will keep up that fight because no one should be made to fight alone. And I believe our campaign showed every child in America -- regardless of their color or gender -- that there are no limits to who can lead and hold positions of power in our country. In that way -- this campaign has been so much bigger than me. I am extremely grateful to the hundreds of staff who moved and uprooted their lives and sacrificed time away from their families. I know our fight has been personal for each of them. Of course I could not have done this without my husband Doug and my entire family and friends who gave up so much to embark on this journey with me and have supported me every step of the way. And I am grateful to the thousands of volunteers and contributors who chipped in, who knocked on doors, who made calls and who put their faith and trust in me. It has been the honor of my life to be your candidate. And I want to be clear: although I am no longer running for President, I will do everything in my power to defeat Donald Trump and fight for the future of our country and the best of who we are. I know you will too. So let's do that together. Let's keep fighting for the America we believe in, an America free of injustice. An America that we know we can be unburdened by what has been. Thank you. — Kamala JOE BIDEN Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 78 Entered race: April 25, 2019 Career: No current role. A University of Delaware and Syracuse Law graduate, he was first elected to Newcastle City Council in 1969, then won upset election to Senate in 1972, aged 29. Was talked out of quitting before being sworn in when his wife and daughter died in a car crash and served total of six terms. Chaired Judiciary Committee's notorious Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings. Ran for president in 1988, pulled out after plagiarism scandal, ran again in 2008, withdrew after placing fifth in the Iowa Caucuses. Tapped by Obama as his running mate and served two terms as vice president. Contemplated third run in 2016 but decided against it after his son died of brain cancer. Family: Eldest of four siblings born to Joe Biden Sr. and Catherine Finnegan. First wife Neilia Hunter and their one-year-old daughter Naomi died in car crash which their two sons, Joseph 'Beau' and Robert Hunter survived. Married Jill Jacobs in 1976, with whom he has daughter Ashley. Beau died of brain cancer in 2015. Hunter's marriage to Kathleen Buhle, with whom he has three children, ended in 2016 when it emerged Hunter was in a relationship with Beau's widow Hallie, mother of their two children. Hunter admitted cocaine use; his estranged wife accused him of blowing their savings on drugs and prostitutes Religion: Catholic Views on key issues: Ultra-moderate who will emphasize bipartisan record. Will come under fire over record, having voted: to stop desegregation bussing in 1975; to overturn Roe v Wade in 1981; for now controversial 1994 Violent Crime Act; for 2003 Iraq War; and for banking deregulation. Says he is 'most progressive' Democrat. New positions include free college, tax reform, $15 minimum wage. No public position yet on Green New Deal and healthcare. Pro-gun control. Has already apologized to women who say he touched them inappropriately Would make history as: Oldest person elected president Slogan: Our Best Days Still Lie Ahead MIKE BLOOMBERG Age on Inauguration Day: 78 Entered race: November 24, 2019 Career: Currently multi-billionaire CEO of Bloomberg PL, the financial information firm he founded in 1981 and which remains a private company. Educated at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, he became a Wall Street trader at investment bank Salomon Brothers and was laid off in 1981, walking away with $10m in stock which he used to set up his own financial information firm, now one of the world's largest. Three times mayor of New York 2002 to 2013, running first as Republican then as independent; had to get term limits suspended for final term. Once flirted with running for mayor of London where he has a home; holds an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth. Has spent large amounts on philanthropy in line with his political views as well as on political campaigns Family: Born in Brookline, MA, to first-generation Jewish immigrant parents whose own parents had fled Russia. Divorced wife of 18 years, Susan Brown-Meyer, in 1993; former couple have daughters Emma, who has a son with her former boyfriend, and Georgina, who has daughter Zelda with her husband Chris Fissora. The child has a portmanteau surname, Frissberg. Partner since 2000 is Diana Taylor, former New York state banking commissioner, 13 years his junior Religion: Jewish Views on key issues: Self-professed fiscal conservative, although painted as a Democratic moderate by other conservative groups. Opposed to Medicare for all. Social progressive who backed gay marriage early, but has flip-flopped on marijuana legalization, most recently opposing it.. Wants firm action on climate change. Fiercely in favor of gun control. As New York mayor banned smoking in public places and tried to outlaw large sugary drinks. Backs increased immigration. Apologized for his stop-and-frisk policing strategy as mayor Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president; richest president ever; first New York mayor to become president Slogan:  Fighting For Our Future PETE BUTTIGIEG Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Announced formation of exploratory committee January 23, 2019. Formally entered race April 14, 2019 Career: Currently mayor of Sound Bend, Indiana. Harvard grad and Rhodes scholar who got a second degree from Oxford before working as a McKinsey management consultant and being commissioned as a Navy Reserve intelligence officer. Elected South Bend mayor in 2011 and served in combat in 2013, won re-election in 2015 Family: Came out as gay during second mayoral run and married husband Chasten Glezman, a middle school teacher in 2018. Parents were University of Notre Dame academics; his father was Maltese-American. Surname is pronounced BOOT-edge-edge Religion: Raised as a Catholic, now Episcopalian Views on key issues: Has said Democratic party needs a 'fresh start'; wrote an essay in praise of Bernie Sanders aged 17; backed paid parental leave for city employees; other policies unknown  Would make history as: First openly gay and youngest-ever president. First veteran of post-World War II conflict  Slogan: A Fresh Start For America   TULSI GABBARD Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Still to formally file any papers but said she would run on January 11 2019 Career: Currently Hawaii congresswoman. Born on American Samoa, a territory. Raised largely in Hawaii, she co-founded an environmental non-profit with her father as a teenager and was elected to the State Legislature aged 21, its youngest member in history. Enlisted in the National Guard and served two tours, one in Iraq 2004-2006, then as an officer in Kuwait in 2009. Ran for Honolulu City Council in 2011, and House of Representatives in 2012 Family: Married to her second husband, Abraham Williams, a cinematographer since 2015. First marriage to childhood sweetheart Eduardo Tamayo in 2002 ended in 2006. Father Mike Gabbard is a Democratic Hawaii state senator, mother Carol Porter runs a non-profit. Religion: Hindu Views on key issues: Has apologized for anti-abortion and anti-gay marriage views; wants marijuana federally legalized; opposed to most U.S. foreign interventions; backs $15 minimum wage and universal health care; was the second elected Democrat to meet Trump after his 2016 victory Would make history as: First female, Hindu and Samoan-American president; youngest president ever Slogan: Lead with Love     AMY KLOBUCHAR Age on Inauguration Day: 60 Entered race: Announced candidacy February 10, 2019 at snow-drenched rally in her native Minneapolis Career: Currently Minnesota senator. Yale and University of Chicago law graduate who became a corporate lawyer. First ran unsuccessfully for office in 1994 as Hennepin, MI, county attorney, and won same race in 1998, then in 2002, without opposition. Ran for Senate in 2006 and won 58-38; re-elected in 2012 and 2018 Family: Married to John Bessler, law professor at University of Baltimore and expert on capital punishment. Daughter Abigail Bessler, 23, works fora Democratic member of New York City council. Father Jim, 90, was a veteran newspaper columnist who has written a memoir of how his alcoholism hurt his family; mom Rose is a retired grade school teacher Religion: Congregationalist (United Church of Christ) Views on key issues: Seen as a mainstream liberal: says she wants 'universal health care' but has not spelled out how; pro-gun control; pro-choice; backs $15 minimum wage; no public statements on federal marijuana legalization; has backed pro-Israel law banning the 'boycott, divestment and sanctions' movement; spoke out against abolishing ICE Would make history as: First female president Slogan: Let's Get To Work   BERNIE SANDERS Age on Inauguration Day: 79 Entered race: Sources said on January 25, 2019, that he would form exploratory committee. Officially announced February 19 Career: Currently Vermont senator. Student civil rights and anti-Vietnam activist who moved to Vermont and worked as a carpenter and radical film-maker. Serial failed political candidate in the 1970s, he ran as a socialist for mayor of Burlington in 1980 and served two terms ending in 1989, and win a seat in Congress as an independent in 1990. Ran for Senate in 2006 elections as an independent with Democratic endorsement and won third term in 2018. Challenged Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination in 2016 but lost. Campaign has since been hit by allegations of sexual harassment  - for which he has apologized - and criticized for its 'Bernie bro' culture Family: Born to a Jewish immigrant father and the daughter of Jewish immigrant parents in Brooklyn, New York. First marriage to college sweetheart Deborah Shiling Messing in 1964 ended in divorce in 1966; had son Levi in 1969 with then girlfriend Susan Cambell Mott. Married Jone O'Meara in 1988 and considers her three children, all adults, his own. The couple have seven grandchildren. His older brother Larry is a former Green Party councilor in Oxfordshire, England.  Religion: Secular Jewish  Views on key issues: Openly socialist and standard bearer for the Democratic party's left-turn. Wants federal $15 minimum wage; banks broken up; union membership encouraged; free college tuition; universal health care; re-distributive taxation; he opposed Iraq War and also U.S. leading the fight against ISIS and wants troops largely out of Afghanistan and the Middle East Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president Slogan: Not me. Us. TOM STEYER  Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 63 Entered race: July 9, 2019 Career: Currently retired. New York-born to wealthy family, he was educated at elite Phillips Exeter Academy, and Yale, then Stanford Business School. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs banker who founded his own hedge fund in 1986 and made himself a billionaire; investments included subprime lenders, private prisons and coal mines. Stepped down in 2012 to focus on advocating for alternative energy. Longtime Democratic activist and donor who started campaign to impeach Trump in October 2017. Net worth of $1.6 billion has made him one of the Democrats' biggest single donors Family: Married Kathryn Taylor in 1986; they have four adult children who have been told they will not inherit the bulk of his fortune. Announced last November he and his wife would live apart. Father Roy was a Nuremberg trials prosecutor Religion: Episcopalian Views on key issues: On the left of the field despite being a hedge fund tycoon. Backs single-payer health care, minimum wage rises and free public college. Previously spoke in favor of Bernie Sanders' agenda. Aggressive backer of climate change action, including ditching fossil fuels Would make history as: Richest Democratic president ever Slogan: Actions Speak Louder Than Words   ELIZABETH WARREN Age on Inauguration Day: 71 Entered race:  Set up exploratory committee December 31, 2018 Career: Currently Massachusetts senator. Law lecturer and academic who became an expert on bankruptcy law and tenured Harvard professor. Ran for Senate and won in 2012, defeating sitting Republican Scott Brown, held it in 2018 60% to 36%. Was short-listed to be Hillary's running mate and campaigned hard for her in 2016 Family: Twice-married mother of two and grandmother of three. First husband and father of her children was her high-school sweetheart. Second husband Bruce Mann is Harvard law professor. Daughter Amelia Tyagi and son Alex Warren have both been involved in her campaigns. Has controversially claimed Native American roots; DNA test suggested she is as little as 1,064th Native American Religion: Raised Methodist, now described as Christian with no fixed church Views on key issues: Was a registered Republican who voted for the party but registered as a Democrat in 1996. Pro: higher taxes on rich; banking regulation; Dream Act path to citizenship for 'dreamers'; abortion and gay rights; campaign finance restrictions; and expansion of public provision of healthcare - although still to spell out exactly how that would happen. Against: U.S. presence in Afghanistan and Syria; liberalization of gambling Would make history as: First female president  Slogan: Warren Has A Plan For That  AND THE 21 WHO HAVE WITHDRAWN     MICHAEL BENNET, Colorado senator CORY BOOKER, New Jersey Senator  STEVE BULLOCK, Montana governor  JULIÁN CASTRO, former Housing Secretary KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, New York senator BILL DE BLASIO, New York City mayor  JOHN DELANEY, former Maryland Congressman MIKE GRAVEL, Former Alaska governor  KAMALA HARRIS,California senator   JOHN HICKENLOOPER, Former Colorado governor JAY INSLEE, Washington governor  WAYNE MESSAM, mayor of Miramar, Florida  SETH MOULTON, Massachusetts congressman RICHARD OJEDA, former West Virginia state senator BETO O'ROURKE, former Texas congressman DEVAL PATRICK, former Massachusetts governor  TIM RYAN, Ohio congressman JOE SESTAK, former Pennsylvania congressman  ERIC SWALWELL, California congressman MARIANNE WILLIAMSON, author ANDREW YANG, entrepreneur   
