abortion
{ By Geoff Earle, Deputy U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:12, 2 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7747845/Donald-Trumps-personal-attorney-voted-Hillary-Clinton-recovered-bankruptcy.html }
President Donald Trump's personal lawyer Jay Sekulow gets a small fraction of the media attention that attends fellow advocate Rudy Giuliani, but is carrying his own potential form of baggage: he voted for Hillary Clinton, associates say.  With Giuliani under scrutiny (his associate Lev Parnas was in federal court on Monday), Sekulow was treated Monday to a New York Times profile, which revealed the TV-savvy lawyer is overseeing a team of eight private lawyers working on Trump's behalf.  Sekulow doesn't have the high profile of Giuliani, but has managed to stay on the case for two years even as other seasoned attorneys flamed out. Trump pays Sekulow for his services, while Giuliani says he does his work for Trump gratis.  Sekulow's son is also on the payroll, according to the paper.  Sekulow was already known for his TV appearances as counsel for the Center for Law & Justice, which has taken on liberals in the courts on behalf of the religious right and evangelical groups, scoring some victories along the way.  Sekulow was born Jewish and converted to Christianity in college, later becoming active in Jews for Jesus. He won a 9-0 Supreme Court victory for the group in 1987, when defending its First Amendment right to deliver literature at Los Angeles International Airport.  The Pat Robertson ally has also taken on fights on behalf of anti-abortion protesters.   The paper also recounts Sekulow's early business venture for flipping historic properties that resulted in bankruptcy. Just a year before his Supreme Court win, Sekulow, family members, and a business partner were sued for fraud and securities violations, according to the paper. His connections in the evangelical community may have served as a plus with Trump, who regularly touts his evangelical support.  The Guardian reported in 2017 that Sekulow was able to carve out a lucrative lifestyle, including private jet travel and six-figure salaries for family members, earned through contracts that the Christian Advocates Serving Evangelism (Case) funded through solicitations. The firm steered more than $60 million to Sekulow and his family and business since 2000, the paper reported. CASE and A.C.L.J. have 'channeled tens of millions of dollars to the Sekulow family and their affiliated businesses, financing homes in Washington, Tennessee and France; private jet travel; and a chauffeur,' according to the Times.  The paper says Sekulow declined to be interviewed on the record for its story.   
