{ By Luke Andrews For Mailonline   Published:  10:09, 27 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7730529/Mother-conjoined-twins-26-says-not-separate-fit-healthy.html }
A mother of conjoined twins has said she will not separate her daughters because they are 'doing well', despite facing 'constant' stares in her hometown. Chelsea Torres, 26, from Blackfoot in Idaho, refused to abort Callie and Carter despite being told they were joined from the large intestine down. The full-time mother, who said she faces stares when in public, said her three-year-old daughters have started to talk and crawl across the floor together - but are having trouble walking. She is 23 weeks pregnant with another child, and hopes that her new baby will eventually encourage them to walk. 'We haven't thought about separation surgery for the girls and I wouldn't like to separate them', she said. 'They are doing well at the moment and we have not been advised to look into the surgery, so as long as they are doing well they will stay together.' She said that her daughters have learned well how to live together but still face 'constant' stares when out in their hometown. 'My daughters are fit and healthy and have definitely made it further than anyone thought they would - so people don't know what they're judging us for', she said. 'Even in our hometown people are constantly staring at us and giving me judgmental looks.' 'People don't realize that it is hard for me to have to watch everyone else's kids grow up and run around playing together, whilst my daughters cannot walk yet. 'But people don't seem to think of that and still look at us as though we are weird - even people who have seen us in public before. 'Even though we receive rude glances, it won't change how I am to my children and doesn't change my opinion on having them separated.' Talking about her daughter's the mother said she has 'always believed in them' - even after being advised to have an abortion.  'Now the girls are almost three-years-old and have been doing amazingly - their vocabulary has massively taken off recently and they can crawl around together', she said. 'Our next milestone would be for them to start walking, but they're not putting much effort in with that at the moment as they seem to be focusing on talking. 'Because the girls are still very young, they haven't realized that they are different to any other child who isn't conjoined so they currently show no issues being together.' Chelsea is pregnant with another child, who she hopes will encourage its older siblings to walk. 'I am currently 23-weeks-pregnant and I have been told that this will be a single child and not a twin', she said. 'I hope that when the girls see the new baby growing up and starting to walk, they will put in more effort to follow in the baby's footsteps and try harder. Conjoined twins occur when siblings have their skin or internal organs fused together. It affects around one in 200,000 live births. Conjoined twins are caused by a fertilised egg beginning to split into two embryos a few weeks after conception, but the process stops before it is complete. The most common type is twins joined at the chest or abdomen. Separation surgery success depends on where the twins are joined. Doctors can only tell which organs the siblings share, and therefore plan surgery, after they are born.  At least one twin survives 75 per cent of the time.  The most famous pair of conjoined twins was Chang and Eng Bunker, who  were born in 1811 and travelled with PT Barnum's circus. They were born in Siam and were known as the Siamese twins. Source: University of Maryland Medical Center  'They also start school in February where they will have physical, speech and occupational therapy so I'm hoping that will help too. 'The girls have become a lot stronger in the past years because them moving together takes a lot of effort, so I believe they will be able to walk soon. 'Also, personality wise, they are learning to live together in their bodies and tolerate one another as opposed to them being bossy and frustrated.' 
