{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  04:21, 27 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7729897/Palaszczuk-urged-act-euthanasia.html }
Euthanasia should be debated by Queenslanders and their political leaders now or the issue is at risk of being kicked down the road for years. That's according to Andrew Denton, the most high profile advocate of voluntary assisted dying. He is urging Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk to introduce a Bill to legalise euthanasia before the October state election. The television presenter and author says the evidence of public support for the terminally ill to be allowed to choose when and how they die is mounting up. "Traumatised doctors, nurses and first responders have talked about bad deaths of people they love and of valued members of the community, deaths which leave deep scars," he said on the steps of state parliament on Wednesday. Victoria passed a voluntary assisted dying law in 2017, and Western Australia is following suit. An inquiry into the vexed issue is underway in Queensland. It is considering how voluntary assisted dying should be defined, who should be eligible, if age restrictions should apply and what safeguards are required to protect vulnerable people from coercion. But Mr Denton thinks the state's leader fears the political risk is too big. "I think there may be a political calculation from the premier that this is something she doesn't want to lose skin over after the abortion law reform," he added. Former Liberal National Party premier Campbell Newman is among supporters of legalising the practice, having now regretted not acting when he was in office. David Muir, chair of the Clem Jones Trust, says a minority of those who favour life over choice are taking up too much space on the issue. "That minority is represented by some church leaders here in Queensland who are opposing it ... they are opposing something that the congregations want," he told reporters. "The travesty is that we have a small group of people in Queensland who are campaigning to try to stop it, and we need to listen to the majority." Mark Coleridge, Archbishop of Brisbane, is among three religious leaders who has called for better palliative care over a law to allow euthanasia. 
