abortion
{ By Lauren Ferri For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  00:16, 27 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7729393/Israel-Folau-files-new-lawsuit-demanding-extra-4million-Wallabies.html }
Sacked Wallabies star Israel Folau now says he is set to lose $14 million as a result of his sacking by Rugby Australia and claims he would have led the Wallabies to victory. New court documents claim the Wallabies star would have put in a 'superior performance' if selected for the 2019 Rugby World Cup and could have possibly captained 'a trophy-winning Wallabies team'.    The figure has been increased to $14 million from a previous estimate of $10 million, according to an amended statement of claim released on Wednesday. The hardline Christian is suing Rugby Australia (RA) and Rugby NSW for unlawfully terminating his contract because of his religious beliefs. His $4million contract was torn up in May by RA after a controversial Instagram post in April condemning 'drunks' and 'homosexuals' and warning 'hell awaits' them. The 30-year-old is the first Australian athlete to be sacked for expressing his religious beliefs and was originally seeking $10million in damages, but the number has now jumped to $14million. In the amended statement of claim to the Federal Circuit Court, Folau details the income he has lost since Rugby Australia tore up his contract. The list includes estimates of between $450,000 and $1.25 million a year in 'post-playing career monetary benefits' over a span of 15 to 25 years. It also details Folau's belief that he could have earned more if he was selected as Wallabies Test captain in the future. 'Additional post-playing career monetary benefits to be derived from building upon (his) record of achievement ... and two additional Rugby World Cups,' the claim states. 'Including a superior performance at the 2019 Rugby World Cup by the Wallabies than what was achieved without Folau, and possible captainship of a trophy-winning Wallabies team.' Taking into account lost sponsorship money and income from competing in World Cups, Folau came to the new figure of $14million.  The document also includes fresh claims that Rugby Australia was told by a senior Wallaby that sacking Folau could offend Polynesian players and divide the team.   'Before the hearing was conducted before the Tribunal, a senior player had told Ms (chief executive Raelene) Castle and Mr (coach Michael) Cheika that the termination of Mr Folau was likely to cause division amongst the Wallabies and that Christian Polynesians in the team were offended by the actions of Rugby Australia,' the claim states.     The fired footy player in October said he has no regrets over his infamous Instagram post during a conference hosted by the Australian Christian Lobby.  He opened up about why he paraphrased the bible passage, saying he recalled the 'crazy prayer' where he asked God as to whether he would continue to serve him faithfully. 'So I knew it was going to be offensive to a lot of people ... but ultimately it's a message of love,' Folau told the packed room.  In a separate social media post, Folau has also claimed transgender people were evil and should repent. RA says Folau's expressions of faith had always been supported 'provided that these were done in a respectful and inclusive manner'.  The 30-year-old sparked outrage after leaked video footage showed him suggesting same-sex marriage and abortion were to blame for Australia's bushfire crisis. Folau was filmed on November 17 delivering a sermon at the Church of Jesus Christ in Kenthurst, Sydney's north-west. 'They've legalised same-sex marriage... Going against the laws that God says,' he said in footage posted to The Truth of Jesus Christ Church's Facebook page.   'Abortion – it's OK now to murder and kill infants, unborn children - and they deem that to be OK. 'Look how rapid these bushfires, these droughts, all these things they've come in a short period of time – you think it's a coincidence?' Folau told worshippers 'God was speaking' to Australia and said: 'You need to repent.'  'What you see out there in the world – it's only a little taste of what God's judgement is like. The news is saying these bushfires are the worst we’ve ever seen in Australia – they haven't seen anything. 'God is speaking to us. Speaking to you to repent and to turn away from this.'  
