{ By Charlotte Dean For Mailonline   Published:  20:51, 26 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7728647/Daisy-Lowe-rocks-checked-olive-green-belted-mac-Mulberry-bash.html }
Their relationship has been hotting up in recent weeks. And Daisy Lowe stepped out once again with her new boyfriend Jack Peñate after enjoying dinner together at Scott's restaurant in Mayfair, London, on Tuesday. The model, 30, dressed for the occasion as she donned a £845 olive green mac designed by the designer brand, which was knotted around her svelte waist.  The stylish jacket boasted a white plaid pattern all over and also featured button detailing down the front of the garment as well as oversized lapels. The former Strictly contestant wore the mac with a pair of suede stilettos and some black tights, while accessorising with a selection of gold chain necklaces.  Daisy wore her raven tresses in a chic swept back look and finished her ensemble with a slick of black eyeliner and some pink lip gloss.  Meanwhile, Jack looked quirky cool in a layered blue ensemble which consisted of a suede jacket, cardigan and a pair of dark grey jeans and black boots. Tongues have been wagging regarding Daisy's romantic status for weeks, after she was pictured out and about on several occasions with Jack. Daisy split from beau Cameron McMeikan, 24, in October, who she dated for almost a year before reportedly splitting over their six-year age gap. Daisy and Cameron were first romantically linked when they were seen sharing a kiss during a low-key date in October last year. A source told The Sun: 'They remain on good terms and Daisy is loving being single and hanging out with friends and family. She hasn't been on her own for ages and it feels like the right time.' A source told The Mirror of their romance last year: 'It has been a while since Daisy had a serious boyfriend and she has grown really close to Cameron. 'They have been secretly dating for months and really enjoy each other's company.' Daisy, whose dating history includes The Crown's Matt Smith, Hurts singer Theo Hutchcraft and Thomas Cohen, was romantically linked to artist John Leigh.   It was also claimed Daisy and Strictly Come Dancing's AJ Pritchard reportedly 'hit it off' after meeting when she took part in the show in 2016 Earlier in the evening, Daisy was in attendance at a Mulberry dubbed My Local Festive Event, but appeared to be without new beau Jack. Her outing came after she candidly revealed she had a 'heartbreaking' secret abortion because she 'wasn't ready to be a mum'. The media personality bravely opened up about her decision after falling pregnant in a past relationship, revealing she is 'grateful' she was given a choice. Daisy said: 'I wasn't ready to be a mum. It was heartbreaking. But I'm so grateful I didn't have that baby. I would have sacrificed a lot and I wouldn’t have been the best mum at the time.' The raven-haired beauty made the admission while being interviewed by Mel B on her new dating podcast The Truth Flirts with Badoo.  The Spice Girls star asked her whether she would ever date someone who had conflicting views on abortion. 'The only time when it has come up in my relationship was when I did get pregnant and I did need to make the choice and I chose to have one', Daisy explained. 'He was supportive, but I had to go to the clinic and it was heartbreaking. He called me when I was having the scan and there was a healthy heartbeat, he said, "You’ve got to keep it, we’ve got to keep it". I was like, "Are you f**king kidding me?" I was like "I can’t".' Daisy went on to explain why it's 'every woman's choice' to have an abortion, adding that there's enough children who are in need of love in the world. She said: 'Ultimately there are a lot of very unwanted, unwell kids in the world who need a whole lot of love. 'The planet is overpopulated enough, so why should we bring unwanted kids into the world. 'I think it’s important. It’s a heartbreaking decision to make. I’m really grateful that I had the choice growing up.' 
