abortion
{ By Mark Duell for MailOnline   Published:  10:58, 26 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7726675/Married-psychiatric-nurse-groomed-girl-kicked-profession.html }
A senior mental health nurse who encouraged his teenage lover to have an abortion to hide his affair from his wife has been kicked out of the profession. Givemore Gezi, 41, of Chudleigh, Devon, was jailed for ten years for grooming the troubled teenager and having sex with her on her 16th birthday. The girl was left alone in a hospital ward during an abortion procedure and broke down in college in March 2018, telling staff she was in a relationship with her crisis worker. One day earlier Gezi's wife phoned her to say she had been having an affair with a married man, the Nursing and Midwifery Council heard. The girl attempted to take her own life and police later arrested Gezi for sexual activity with a child under 16 and drink driving. Gezi met the patient while working for Torbay and South Devon NHS Trust and had 20 years of experience as a mental health nurse. NMC panel chair Anne Booth said: 'The panel determined that a fully informed member of the public would be appalled by Mr Gezi's convictions, and extremely concerned should a finding of no current impairment be made in light of Mr Gezi's convictions. 'The panel was of the view that Mr Gezi had breached fundamental tenets of the nursing profession by grooming Service User A and encouraging her to enter into an inappropriate sexual relationship with him. 'The panel considered that he brought the nursing profession into disrepute.. 'The panel noted that Mr Gezi initially denied the allegations made by Service User A and maintained this position until the commencement of his criminal trial. 'The panel was also aware that Mr Gezi tried to persuade Service User A to change her account to the Police. 'The panel determined that Mr Gezi had caused significant harm to Service User A as a result of his actions in relation to the inappropriate sexual relationship. 'Service User A became pregnant and terminated her pregnancy following Mr Gezi's encouragement. She attempted to take her own life as a result of the relationship. 'The panel considered there to be a risk of harm to patients in the future should Mr Gezi be permitted to practise as a registered nurse.' The father of two, had lied about his age claiming he was 28 and was deeply in love with her. He was originally jailed for seven years and eight months after a trial at Exeter Crown Court. But the Attorney General appealed the sentence and was granted an extension of two years and four months by three High Court judges earlier this year. Judge Timothy Rose had told Gezi at Exeter Crown Court: 'You knew precisely what you were doing and precisely how wrong it wasand how criminal it was and how damaging and abusive it was. 'You embarked on a process of grooming, which was grossly calculating, manipulative and deceitful. You lied to her about your intentions and motivation. 'I can only conclude you did it for your own personal sexual gratification and without regard for your professional standards or the damage and harm you inflicted on the victim. 'You knew full well her vulnerability. She showed huge courage in her willingness to give evidence. 'There are many aggravating factors. There was planning, grooming, the specific targeting of a particularly vulnerable child, and an exceptionally high abuse of trust.' Gezi was struck off the nursing register. 
