{ By Latoya Gayle For Mailonline   Published:  15:50, 25 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7722603/Man-26-slammed-accuses-girlfriend-four-years-deliberately-getting-pregnant.html }
A man has come under fire for accusing his girlfriend of getting pregnant deliberately, despite knowing he wasn't ready for fatherhood.  Writing on Reddit, the 26-year-old from the US, explained he'd become suspicious when his girlfriend announced she was two months pregnant, because she had so many baby-themed posts on her Instagram and Pinterest accounts.  He'd already made clear that he didn't want children until they'd bought a house and established their careers, and suggested that she have an abortion.  Admitting that he apologized when she showed him evidence that she'd recently had the contraceptive jab, a stream of commenters accused him of not being sincerely sorry and not taking responsibility for his role.  However, Reddit users sided with the girlfriend with one saying: 'I get being shocked by unexpected news but there is no 100 per cent effective form of birth control and YOU didn't take any responsibility for YOUR sperm by wearing a condom.  Explaining that his girlfriend began talking about children after they started living together, the man wrote: 'Her Pinterest is filled with stuff about baby clothes, nursery decorating and raising kids (as well as tons of wedding stuff). 'I was very adamant that I wanted to wait until we could afford a house, pay off debts and establish our careers before getting married and then we would have kids.' He added that she'd sent him a screenshot of the receipt for her latest contraceptive injection, and said: 'I already apologized many times but I honestly don't think I was the a******* to question her intentionally getting pregnant.' Blasting the man for the post, many accused him of not trusting his girlfriend and refusing to take responsibility for his involvement in her getting pregnant.  'Liking baby clothes and posting about her hopes of having children in the future is not sufficient evidence for accusing someone of purposefully getting pregnant and as it turns out, you were wrong,' wrote one.  Another said: 'If you 100 per cent don't want kids, don't do activities that can cause pregnancy. She can't get pregnant on her own. 'If you were more involved in the actual birth control, you would know she had her shot because you would have paid for part of it and perhaps even gone to the doctor with her or treated her with coffee afterwards.  'If you were more involved in the birth control, you would also know that it's failure is what made most sense and not her trapping you after four years when she just got out of college and is starting the next step in her life.' A third added: 'YTA. If you can't trust your girlfriend you shouldn't be with her. I hope she realises her worth and never comes back.' However, others agreed with the man that they would also be suspicious if their partner got pregnant after openly sharing a desire to have children. One person wrote: 'Nah, it would make sense for you to be suspicious as these things do happen. But then again you threw the burden of contraception on her. I say nah because your initial reaction could be excused due to shock from the news and you tried making amends after your accusations.' Another said: 'NTA. I think everyone here is saying you are because you lost the argument, but if you are suspicious of your spouse you talk to them. You did that. You didn't sneak a look at her phone, you didn't violate her privacy, you went to her directly.  'An argument is bound to happen, but you had a hunch and honestly I would've thought the same. If she actually did lie then everyone would be on your side for having a good eye.' 
