abortion
{ By Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com    Published:  17:36, 23 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7717947/Columbia-University-fencing-team-accuse-Trump-gender-based-prejudice-letter.html }
Columbia University's fencing team wore pins for gender equality during NCAA Collegiate National Champions Day at the White House but were unable to hand President Donald Trump a letter condemning his gender equity policies.  Elise Gout, a member of Columbia University's 2019 championship fencing team, said she and three of her teammates had hoped to present Trump with the letter arguing that Trump has 'perpetuated a culture that conditions women and minority gender identities to be silent - to sacrifice the space they have every right to take up.' But Gout said the athletes were told by a Trump aide that they could not bring the letter with them during their brief meeting with Trump in the East Room of the White House.  The letter stated it only represented the views of the four signatories, fencers who competed on the 2019 championship team and graduated earlier this year, and not Columbia University or the fencing team. Those four are; Elise Gout, Nolen Scruggs, Quinn Crum and Ilana Solomon. White House spokesman Judd Deere said the Columbia fencers' visit with Trump was cordial, and White House staff extended an invitation for the athletes and coach to come back to the White House at a later date to discuss any policy concerns they have. Some athletes, including members of the World Cup-winning women's national soccer team and Sean Doolittle from the World Series champion Washington Nationals, have declined the White House invitations from Trump.  Others, like the NBA´s Golden State Warriors and the NFL´s Philadelphia Eagles, have been disinvited after players criticized the president. Others have warmly embraced Trump. The Columbia athletes´ letter criticized the administration for proposing changes to federal rules that would affect campus sexual assault survivors and for implementing new regulations that prohibit groups that receive federal grants from referring patients for abortion.  The letter - first submitted to the Washington Post - states that fencing is 'one of only three-co-educational sports in the NCAA' that requires the 'strength and aptitude of a combined force of fender identities.'  'But while ours is a victory born from values of gender equality, yours is one shadowed by continued acts of gender-based prejudice and partisanship.' The letter specifically mentions the administration's proposal to get rid of protective measures in Title IX and Trump's recent Title X domestic gag rule as examples of how his policies have negatively impacted gender equality. 'You have perpetuated a culture that conditions women and minority gender identities to be silent - to sacrifice the space they have every right to take up.' The team shared that they chose to wear white buttons for their visit to show solidarity with 'those impacted by gender-based discrimination.'  They continued: 'We find that the victory for which you mean to honor us today cannot be separated from the diversity that comprises our team. To deny the people of the United States equal social opportunity is to deny the ability for such diversity to flourish.'  
