{ By Jabeen Waheed For Mailonline   Published:  13:12, 20 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7706229/Daisy-Lowe-nails-duty-style-faux-fur-black-coat-exits-beauty-salon-London.html }
She is known for her hectic schedule as a model.  But Daisy Lowe looked happy and relaxed as she exited NUYU beauty salon in Primrose Hill, North London following a pampering session on Tuesday.   The model, 30, kept it casually cool in a chic black coat, completed with a feathered coat, atop a matching ensemble.  The Elite Model Management star added to her look with a pair of grunge boots while taming her brunette tresses in place with a black beanie.   Toting her belongings in a white bag, Daisy was seen sporting a fresh manicure as she left the salon.   Daisy's appearance comes after she candidly revealed she had a 'heartbreaking' secret abortion because she 'wasn't ready to be a mum'. The media personality bravely opened up about her decision after falling pregnant in a past relationship, revealing she is 'grateful' she was given a choice. Daisy said: 'I wasn't ready to be a mum. It was heartbreaking. But I'm so grateful I didn't have that baby. I would have sacrificed a lot and I wouldn’t have been the best mum at the time.' The raven-haired beauty made the admission while being interviewed by Mel B on her new dating podcast The Truth Flirts with Badoo. The Spice Girls star asked her whether she would ever date someone who had conflicting views on abortion. 'The only time when it has come up in my relationship was when I did get pregnant and I did need to make the choice and I chose to have one', Daisy explained. 'He was supportive, but I had to go to the clinic and it was heartbreaking. He called me when I was having the scan and there was a healthy heartbeat, he said, "You’ve got to keep it, we’ve got to keep it". I was like, "Are you f**king kidding me?" I was like "I can’t".' Daisy went on to explain why it's 'every woman's choice' to have an abortion, adding that there's enough children who are in need of love in the world. She said: 'Ultimately there are a lot of very unwanted, unwell kids in the world who need a whole lot of love. 'The planet is overpopulated enough, so why should we bring unwanted kids into the world. 'I think it’s important. It’s a heartbreaking decision to make. “I’m really grateful that I had the choice growing up.'   
