{ By Stephen Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:24, 18 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7696645/Sydney-Baptist-pastor-George-Capsis-72-says-Israel-Folau-mellow-age-like-did.html }
A conservative Christian pastor says Israel Folau is going through a phase of religious fundamentalism and will likely tone down his crusade as he mellows with age.  The sacked Wallabies star has stirred outrage after suggesting the drought and bushfires in New South Wales and Queensland were a sign God was upset about gay marriage and abortion. Sydney Baptist reverend George Capsis, 72, said he once was a fundamentalist like Folau as a newly-ordained minister in the early 1980s. 'When I was his age, I was a red-hot, angry fundamentalist and I would have said something like that when I was 30-years old when I started in ministry,' Mr Capsis told Daily Mail Australia on Monday. Scroll down for video  'But over the years, the realities of life have mellowed me.  'You've got to love people, you got to help people, you don't just pull out judgement on people - there are grey areas and we've got to work through them.' Mr Capsis, the Egyptian-born pastor at the Croydon Park Baptist Church in Sydney's inner-west, describes himself as a 'conservative Christian' who remains opposed to gay marriage. Nonetheless, he said it was wrong to claim the drought and bushfires were a sign God disapproved of same-sex matrimony, which was legalised in 2017 following a postal vote survey. 'I don't know you could link the current bushfire problems,' he said. 'I don't know how we could legitimately, as Christians, who preach the love of Jesus, how we could legitimately link that with God's judgement. 'As Christians, we accept the Bible but there are other, more appropriate verses that reach out to the community that is suffering.' Mr Capsis earlier this year complained to ANZ after the bank criticised Folau's wife Maria for backing her husband, following his sacking in May by Rugby Australia over a series of tweets calling on homosexuals to repent for their sins. At the time, he wrote a letter to the bank, protesting about how it had used its status as a sponsor of New Zealand's Silver Ferns netball team to condemn Maria Folau. While he disagreed with the pile-on against Israel Folau earlier this year, Mr Capsis suggested the former rugby star was shaped by the fundamentalist teachings of his father Eni's Truth of Jesus Christ Pentecostal church at Kenhurst, in Sydney's north-west. He saw his younger self in Folau's controversial statements, paraphrasing drought warnings from the Book of Kings in the Old Testament of the Bible.  'I used to preach judgement - now I've softened, I'm more balanced in my understanding of the word of God and the love of God,' Mr Capsis said.  'My early Christian nurturing was in a church which held fairly fundamental beliefs like Israel's church does. 'That moulded me to a certain extent until I went to theological college, studied the word of God for myself and came to my own understanding and conclusions.' In his sermon, Folau suggested there was a link between gay marriage and the spate of bushfires in NSW this month that have, so far, killed four people. 'They've legalised same-sex marriage... going against the laws that God says,' he said. 'You have changed the law and changed the ordinance of these things.  'Look how rapid these bushfires, these droughts, all these things have come in a short period of time. You think it is a coincidence or not?' Folau also equated the removal of abortion from the NSW criminal code for the natural disasters.   'Abortion - it is okay now to murder and kill infants, unborn children, and they think that to be okay,' he said. 'God is speaking to you guys. Australia, you need to repent and you need to take these laws and turn it back to what is right by God, what God says in his word.' Folau also said same-sex marriage and abortion were 'evil in the eyes of God' but were deemed by society as 'good'. 'This generation is full of arrogance and full of pride,' he said. 'They want to turn their back on God. They don't want to know one bit of who God is because they're so immersed in their sinful, wicked, evil ways.' Folau had a supporter in the Australian Christian Lobby, which in May crowd funded his legal action against Rugby Australia for sacking him.  The group's managing director Martyn Iles said the media had rushed to judge Folau, adding his sermon was more nuanced. 'Sermons don't lend themselves to quick soundbites, and the media's attempts to paraphrase a sermon has caused some unnecessary angst,' he said in a statement on Monday afternoon.  'For one thing, Israel did not claim to know that the current bushfires are God's direct judgement for same-sex marriage.' 
