abortion
{ By Rory Tingle For Mailonline and Michael Powell and Charlotte Wace For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  07:39, 18 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7696843/Jennifer-Arcuri-blasts-Boris-Johnson-treating-like-fleeting-one-night-stand.html }
Jennifer Arcuri today claimed Boris Johnson told her he had five children, as she admitted to sharing a 'special relationship' with the PM and said she tried to call him recently but a man 'pretending to be Chinese' took the phone.  The PM had two sons and two daughters during his marriage to high-flying barrister Marina Wheeler but has not publicly acknowledged the existence of a fifth child, which he had with a mistress believed to be art consultant Helen Macintyre. When asked on Good Morning Britain if Mr Johnson ever told her how many children he had, the pole dancing former model, 34, said: 'I asked him once if he had as many kids as Ken Livingstone, and he said no.' Prompted for more detail, Ms Arcuri continued: 'Well, he had the four, and one' with another woman. Asked if the public should know these details, she replied: 'Sure, sure, it's part of what I would say, you know, would be becoming of his character.'  It was her second TV appearance today, in what is becoming a major headache for Mr Johnson as he continues to campaign for next month's election. Ms Arcuri, who is facing claims of fuelling the scandal for her own benefit, has previously warned she is 'keeping secrets' he would not want to be revealed in public.  But Ms Arcuri - who also starred in an ITV documentary last night - insisted she was an unwilling participant in a media storm and continued to refuse to answer questions about whether she had an affair with the former London Mayor. Ms Arcuri's links with Mr Johnson came under public scrutiny earlier this year over allegations she received favourable treatment for her business ventures during his eight-year stint as mayor of London. In an astonishing morning of broadcast appearances, she has spoken of their relationship calling it 'very special' as she refused to say whether they had an affair. Following her appearance on GMB, TV presenter Lorraine Kelly criticised her live, asking 'what's the point of you coming on TV?' after the US businesswoman appeared to dodge questions. Ms Arcuri swerved queries about her relationship with Mr Johnson, telling hosts Piers Morgan and Susanna Reid that she did not want to 'be pressured into admitting' to anything about her links to the Prime Minister. Jennifer Arcuri's claims about Mr Johnson's unacknowledged child will be particularly uncomfortable for the PM as he tries to fend off Jeremy Corbyn in the battle for Number 10.  The PM has four children from his marriage to high-flying barrister Marina Wheeler: Lara Lettice, Cassia Peaches, Theodore Apollo and Milo Arthur.  Mr Johnson is said to have sired a child with art consultant Helen Macintyre. It is understood Mrs Wheeler had, again, kicked him out of the family home at the time.  His fatherhood of Miss Macintyre's daughter was first revealed by the Daily Mail in July 2010. In 2013 a court ruled that it was in the public interest for the Press to report Mr Johnson was the father.  During that hearing, there were claims he had a sixth child.  Later, speaking to Victoria Derbyshire, Ms Arcuri insisted Mr Johnson did not do her any 'favours' but said she wished he had declared her as an interest if it could have 'saved me this entire embarrassment and humiliation'. She said: 'I would love an apology for acknowledging the fact that given all those years, you know, that I was on the ground, hustling and working as a student. I mean he saw my arc, he saw my progression as a young woman, graduating and becoming, you know, a mature entrepreneur.' She also accused the Prime Minister of feeding her to the wolves. Asked if Mr Johnson 'had bigger fish to fry', she said: 'That's what you tell somebody when you meet them for the night, you don't know them, you haven't spent the hours with them, the investment into another person. 'And the fact that I'm called out, just on GMB, because 'why I am here if I'm not here to admit the affair?' 'Well wait a minute I'm not allowed to be upset because somebody that was very much a part of my life, who knew what I stood for, the calibre and integrity and merit that I work at. I mean all these things he knew and he sat back, why? 'He didn't have to ignore me, it could have been a 30-second phone call, just to let me know that he's acknowledging the fact that he, while he gets to be prime minister gets to feed me to the wolves - and I find that really disturbing.' Appearing on the Victoria Derbyshire Show, Ms Arcuri read a text she had sent to the PM on Sunday after he second attempted call.  This read: 'Is this the price of loyalty, to be hung up on, ignored and blocked? 'Why would I remain silent if you can't even speak to me, and I've been nothing but loyal to you.'  Ms Arcuri said Mr Johnson did not just have 'a sexual intention' towards her, as she insisted he was a 'man of his word'. 'I was convinced this was a man of his word because I couldn't believe the fervent, linear focus which he had on me. 'I assure you it was not just a sexual intention, he actually was very intrigued by my energy, my ability to get things done - he loved my events, and he saw the way I could work a room, the way I met everybody.' She added: 'I was a female, there was very few of us and I was extremely tenacious and I'm telling you that's what London and Partners loved about me, that's what Boris Johnson loved about me, and that's why I was accepted so greatly into this London community. 'I have great pride for this eco-system. I mean, we built it.'        Lorraine Kelly today criticised Jennifer Arcuri live on air, asking 'what's the point of you coming on TV?' after the US businesswoman appeared to dodge questions on Good Morning Britain. Ms Arcuri swerved queries about her relationship with Boris Johnson, telling hosts Piers Morgan and Susanna Reid that she did not want to 'be pressured into admitting' to anything about her links to the Prime Minister. During a live link-up following the interview, Kelly told Morgan and Reid: 'That was crazy wasn't it? What's the point, coming on and not answering any questions?' Morgan asked Ms Arcuri if she had a response to Kelly, who repeated directly to her: 'It just doesn't make any sense. What's the point in you coming on and not saying anything?' Seemingly taken aback, Ms Arcuri asked: 'I'm sorry?' Kelly said: 'What is the point of you coming on TV to clear the air and then you don't say anything?' Ms Arcuri replied: 'I believe I said a few things. What is it that you're looking for that I should say?' Kelly responded: 'You didn't answer any of the questions that were put to you, and I just don't see the point of you coming on to be honest.' Ms Arcuri has been at the centre of a controversy involving Mr Johnson, and in an interview with ITV Exposure that aired on Sunday she said she wished she had declared their personal relationship as a potential conflict of interest to avoid her 'humiliation'. Ms Arcuri claimed Mr Johnson cast her aside as though she was a 'gremlin' after she tried to contact him for advice on how to handle the media interest. Her links with Mr Johnson came under public scrutiny earlier this year over allegations she received favourable treatment for her business ventures during his eight-year stint as mayor of London. The show alleges the pair were involved in an affair for more than four years. In the interview with Good Morning Britain on Monday, Ms Arcuri was asked if she had had an affair with Mr Johnson after using the word in the documentary. She said: 'I'm not going to answer that question, but as you can tell, there was a very special relationship there. 'When it did come out, half the people already assumed the affair and told me to admit it. The other half wanted me to deny, deny, deny.' She added that she can 'concede to the fact that I have been heartbroken'.  She added: 'It just doesn't make any sense. What's the point in you coming down and not saying anything? What's the point in coming on and not saying anything?'  A confused Ms Arcuri then asked: 'I'm sorry?' to which Lorraine repeated her question: 'What's the point in you coming on the TV to clear the air and then you don't say anything?'   In an ITV documentary last night, Ms Arcuri scolded the PM for refusing to speak to her after the scandal broke over their affair, claiming she has been 'brushed off as if I was one of Kennedy's girlfriends.' 'I've been nothing but loyal, faithful, supportive, and a true confidante of yours,' she told ITV Exposure. 'I've kept your secrets, and I've been your friend. 'And I don't understand why you've blocked me and ignored me as if I was some fleeting one-night stand or some girl that you picked up at a bar because I wasn't - and you know that. 'And I'm terribly heartbroken by the way that you have cast me aside like I am some gremlin.' Ms Arcuri, who boasted of having Mr Johnson 'wrapped around my little finger', refused to go as far as saying she had an affair with Mr Johnson, saying: 'It's no one's business if we were in a relationship or not.' But award-winning veteran journalist John Ware told viewers: 'After many hours of conversation with Ms Arcuri – and confirmation by several sources including those she confided in at the time – I'm left in no doubt they had an affair lasting at least four years.' Previous reports suggested that their relationship was little more than a fling. During the interview, Ms Arcuri said: Mr Johnson is facing two separate inquiries over his relationship with Ms Arcuri while he was Mayor of London. Investigations have been launched by City Hall and the police watchdog over the PM's links with the tech entrepreneur who was handed £126,000 of public grants and went on overseas trade missions with Mr Johnson to Indonesia and Israel. A Conservative Party spokesman said: 'Any claims of impropriety in office are untrue and unfounded.' Ms Arcuri, who lives in Los Angeles, returned to London last week for the first time since the storm broke over her alleged affair with Mr Johnson, 55. Professor Alan Doig, a former member of the public standards board for England, told ITV Mr Johnson could have breached the Greater London Authority code by not declaring a private relationship with Ms Arcuri. Prof Doig said: 'This would have been something that should have been declared just in terms of common sense and caution.' Last night, Labour Shadow Communities Minister Andrew Gwynne said: 'Serious questions have again been raised about Boris Johnson's honesty and integrity. It's clear he misled the public when he said 'there was no interest to declare'.'   Boris Johnson's catalogue of infidelity: From the affair with a society writer that got him sacked from the shadow cabinet to the art consultant who gave birth to his love child, the former Foreign Secretary has had a very colourful love life By Martin Robinson for MailOnline  Boris Johnson has enjoyed 25 years of marriage with his wife Marina despite his spectacularly colourful love life and string of at least three affairs. He married his Oxford University sweetheart Allegra Mostyn-Owen in 1987, but they divorced in 1993 after his affair with his estranged wife, Marina Wheeler. In 2004 his four-year affair with journalist and society author Petronella Wyatt became public. Nicknamed 'Petsy', she later told how she had an abortion and suffered a miscarriage. He was sacked from his role as shadow arts minister by then Tory leader Michael Howard for lying about the relationship.  Mr Johnson had previously described reports of an affair as an 'inverted pyramid of piffle'. Mr Howard's spokesman said at the time that the issue was one of 'personal morality'. Two years later, the News of the World reported an affair with journalist Anna Fazackerley, stating Mr Johnson had been seen leaving her flat in West London.  Marina Wheeler threw her husband out of their London home over his infidelities – but the couple later patched things up. And in 2009 Mr Johnson is said to have fathered a child with art consultant Helen Macintyre. It is understood Mrs Wheeler had, again, kicked him out of the family home at the time. Mr Johnson's fatherhood of Miss Macintyre's daughter was first revealed by the Daily Mail in July 2010.  In 2013 a court ruled that it was in the public interest for the Press to report Mr Johnson was the father. His wife had tolerated his philandering, a friend has said, because she viewed it as a 'childish side of his personality which one day he'll grow out of'.   Boris Johnson said I could bring up his secret baby: Society writer WILLIAM CASH reveals how the Prime Minister agreed to let him raise his love child – before it ended in tears and robbed him of the woman he longed to marry William Cash for the Mail On Sunday In his riotously colourful book Restoration Heart, WILLIAM CASH reveals the untold story of how our PM agreed to let him raise his secret daughter – before it all ended in tears. William was in a relationship with Helen Macintyre and the couple were discussing their planned future together when she told him that Boris was her daughter Stephanie's father.  The bombshell had to remain a secret, so William agreed to help bring up Stephanie and was even prepared to raise her as his own daughter. It was a plan which Boris agreed to, but everything went wrong when the secret was leaked to the media by Helen's former boyfriend, sending William's marriage plans up in smoke.   I still have the receipt from lunch at Mark's Club in Mayfair.  I can tell it was long and that we finished with two glasses of Courvoisier on the empty roof terrace as Helen smoked her Silk Cut. I remember the electric heaters glowing above us in the gunmetal sky as we spoke about my divorces and her failed relationships. We talked about our future together – and how I hoped that Helen would trust me to be a stepfather to her beautiful daughter. But most of all I remember the explosive impact of what came next: 'William,' she said. 'I think there's something you should know. About the father of Stephanie. 'Nobody else knows other than my family. This has to stay absolutely between us and you cannot tell anybody.' 'No secrets then,' I said. 'It's Boris.' 'Johnson?' 'I've known him for years,' she continued. 'I'm an art adviser to the Mayor of London's office. He's smart and funny. One day he may even be Prime Minister. 'I'm so torn, William. He texts me the whole time but I never know what's coming next.' I swallowed hard. 'What's he really like?' I asked. 'Did you love him?' I hadn't wanted to use the present tense. This shouldn't change anything at all between Helen and me, I told myself as I reached for my brandy. But I was wrong. Spectacularly wrong. The B-Bombshell would ruin everything. Why did I take Helen Macintyre to Mark's, the private members' club where I'd had my wedding lunch after each of my two failed marriages?  Was it a deliberate choice, an attempt to erase the past? There was certainly plenty to forget. The start of that year had been bleak. Still wounded from my second divorce, at the age of 43 I was yet to have any children.  And to make matters worse, the ancient manor house that was my life's other passion was once again in serious disrepair. Even today, Upton Cressett's diamond-leaded windows and stacks of twisted chimneys look as they would have done some 450 years earlier.  It's as authentically Elizabethan a building as any you will find in England. It became my home in the early 1970s when my 'restore-a-wreck' parents left Islington in North London for a derelict ruin in Shropshire.  It had always been my dream to live there with my own family, although this seemed an ever-more distant prospect. My first whirlwind marriage had been to Ilaria Bulgari from the famous Italian jewellery family and lasted little more than three years. I was served with divorce papers on the eve of my 40th birthday after my wife hosted a dinner for me but then failed to appear. Next came Dr Vanessa Neumann, a green-eyed beauty known in the diary pages as the 'Cracker from Caracas' thanks to her Venezuelan heritage and because she'd previously dated Mick Jagger.  I proposed with a ring produced from a sock amid a tropical storm. This time, we lasted less than 12 months. Now, feeling past my prime, I faced the twin tasks of finding a chatelaine for Upton Cressett and renovating the oldest brick-built manor house in the county. Solo. I was, to paraphrase Jane Austen, a single man in possession of a good house – and very much in need of a wife. For five intense months in 2010 I thought I'd found the answer in the form of an art dealer as beautiful as she was mysterious.  Helen Macintyre had her own gallery in St James's with a cosy office on the top floor containing a sofa in chartreuse-green velvet.  She exuded 1950s Parisian glamour, spoke several languages and could often be found sitting at a table outside Franco's restaurant in Jermyn Street with a cigarette in hand and her two dachshunds – Monty and Carlo – snuggled on her lap inside a dark fur coat. Helen was way out of my league as a potential girlfriend and already had a very rich Canadian boyfriend called Pierre Rolin, a property developer who flew her around the world on a private jet. We'd first met two years earlier, in the lobby of the Grosvenor House hotel. I already knew a little about Helen. I'd heard she was friends with people such as TV political interviewer Andrew Neil, that she was close to the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, for whom she was an unpaid 'art adviser', and that she lived in a large townhouse in Belgravia with a chef, a butler and a chauffeur. At the time I was a journalist commissioned to interview a Qatari prince who was staging an exhibition of his photographs – hawks, desert sunsets and so on – at a Mayfair gallery. It was the bank holiday Monday just before my June wedding to Vanessa, but I dutifully showed up to meet the organiser of the show, who happened to be Helen. She breezed into the hotel lobby at 9am in a cream Chanel suit and introduced herself. 'Hello,' she said in a disarmingly open way. Her Delft-blue eyes flashed. She smelt of Dior and Silk Cut. At the time, I was deeply in love with Vanessa, thrilled at the prospect of becoming her husband in a few days' time.  Yet the first instant I met Helen's eyes, a fuse blew inside me. I could hear myself asking banal questions about the Qatari photographs when another dialogue altogether was going on inside my head: 'If I wasn't marrying Vanessa, I'd marry Helen, or at least try to.' Absurd but true. We became friends and – with my marriage to Vanessa collapsing after just a few months – trusted confidantes. Helen, I realised, belonged in a Thackeray novel, an enigma wrapped in mink.  When she invited me to her house, the butler wore white gloves and a rare vintage Château d'Yquem was served with foie gras.  Pierre, the boyfriend, was nowhere to be seen. We sat at opposite ends of an enormous polished mahogany dining-table. Before dinner, she had asked me to choose some wine. 'Help yourself to some from the rack,' she'd said. 'I'm not drinking.' This was unusual. There was none of the usual stuff from Waitrose or Tesco. Instead, the kitchen rack was piled with dusty £500 bottles of Latour, Pétrus and the like. Not long afterwards, I got a call. Helen wanted to meet me at The Wolseley restaurant on Piccadilly for a drink. 'I'm pregnant,' she announced, disarmingly candid as ever. This was the summer of 2008 – the baby was due in November. I congratulated her, but sensed there was more to it than that. 'Pierre's like a nomad,' she explained. 'However glamorous the planes, the yachts and the holidays sounded, I was pretty lonely as he was hardly around. 'He rented a yacht in the South of France for two weeks last summer and I found myself on deck most of the time with just the captain and crew. 'Something wasn't right. I couldn't work out how my life had ended up like this. And then I got pregnant.' I went to see her at London's Portland Hospital when she gave birth to a daughter, Stephanie, named after Helen's sister, who had died young. We shared a glass of champagne as she showed off her baby, a pretty bundle with a shock of blonde hair.  Yet there was no sign of Pierre. And Stephanie looked nothing like him. The year 2010 marked the 40th anniversary of my family living at Upton Cressett, which seemed a good time to start the major restoration of a building I was already calling 'Money Pit Manor'. For the English, our houses are often so much more than just bricks and mortar. In my case, Upton Cressett had always been the most dependable of my relationships, more so than any love affair or marriage.  The truth is that I was party to blame for its terrible state, having employed a cowboy builder whose idea of 'renovation' was to wreck the place. It resembled an architectural salvage yard. With the foundations of my life falling away beneath me I, too, required as serious a makeover as my Elizabethan house. In February, I found myself at traffic lights in South Kensington when a car caught my eye, as did the woman behind the wheel.  I recognised the mint-green Mini Cooper belonging to my art dealer friend Helen Macintyre. She'd won it in a raffle, of all things. I tapped on the window and said something along the lines of: 'Are-you-free-for-lunch-need-to-talk?'  Helen parked up and we headed for a little restaurant on Walton Street nearby. I ordered a bottle of Provence rosé, and then another. Now divorced from Vanessa, I was telling Helen about another romantic failure – this time a brief entanglement with a 26-year-old interior designer. But Helen had something much more interesting to say: 'Pierre and I have split. In fact, I've moved out and taken a house in Chelsea where I'm living with Stephanie.' 'I'm sorry to hear that.' 'Pierre's in trouble. He hasn't been around. He's always travelling. Things have been falling apart for months.  'He's under investigation. Administrators were knocking on the door. I don't know exactly what's going on but Stephanie has to come first.' Helen had every right to be scared. The assets of Pierre's property business were being frozen by lawyers acting for a Middle Eastern client wanting to know what had happened to tens of millions of pounds.  Pierre denied any wrongdoing but, with his firm placed in administration, he would eventually relocate to Canada and, as he put it, 'start from less than zero'. I felt awful for Helen: she'd had no option but to flee her home less than a month after giving birth. 'Pierre was always on a plane doing deals or sitting on another charity board,' she continued. 'One moment he was in New York, the next flying into the World Economic Forum in Davos.' At the mention of Davos, Helen took a gulp of wine and looked away. 'You know that Pierre may not be the father,' she said. I nodded, saying: 'Pierre is dark, like you.' 'The identity of Stephanie's father cannot get out. The father was calling me at the hospital.' 'Does Pierre know who it might be?' 'He has an idea,' she replied. 'How did he take it?' 'He's having a paternity test. We both knew our relationship wasn't working. In fact, it was over.' Helen was used to dealing with whatever life threw at her. She'd had a triple family tragedy: her sisters, Enid and Stephanie, and her father had all died within a few years of each other when she was growing up in Kent.  She had shown steely resilience throughout and had never lost her self-deprecating good humour. You could tell her anything. She also had an almost complete lack of reserve or guard when it came to talking about men, love, politics and sex.  She loved risqué texts and louche Paris clubs and casinos. I had never met anybody else of such unaffected candour. After lunch, I walked her to the Mini. As she stood by the car, I kissed her beside a parking meter. (Yes, she had a ticket). There felt nothing surprising about this. When she grabbed the ticket, she laughed and walked towards her new home. As she waved back, I knew another chapter in my life was about to begin. It wasn't long before I was spending much of my time at her home off the Kings Road. I was happy again, even when she finally told me the name of Stephanie's real father. Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson was probably the last person you'd want as a rivale d'amour.  Two years older than me, he was a heavyweight champion when it came to conquests, a veteran swordsman and super-hack paid £250,000 a year for one newspaper column (which he described as 'chicken feed'). I felt as if I'd been pushed out into the hot glare of the Circus Maximus to fight a seasoned gladiator. I had met him only a few times but knew enough to know he craved attention. I'd been to a party at the Spectator magazine where, as the then editor, he'd jumped on to his mahogany desk to make a speech.  It juddered under his weight. I couldn't imagine his predecessors playing the 'editor-showman' in such a way. I'd been relatively ancient, in my mid-thirties, when I got engaged to my first wife. Boris, in contrast, was engaged while still at Oxford to aristocratic model Allegra Mostyn-Owen.  She later left him when he embarked on an affair with barrister Marina Wheeler, a childhood friend who became his second wife. I had no personal problem with Boris. He'd known my family for years as my father, Eurosceptic MP Bill Cash, had been at Oxford with Boris's father, Stanley. I'd long known that Helen was a fan; she had the entire Johnson oeuvre of books on a shelf beside her bed, from his comic political novel Seventy-Two Virgins to collected journalism. Yes, I was jealous of Boris's hold over the woman I loved, but such were his political ambitions that I thought the likelihood of his leaving Marina was remote. For the moment, all I wanted was to be with Helen, and if that meant bringing up Stephanie as my own daughter – preferably as her stepfather – then I was 100 per cent fine with that. It was now critical that everyone in the tight family circle who knew the truth of Stephanie's father had to be bound by a code of omertà. Nobody could talk about it, not even so much as hint. For myself, I feared being burned alive by the fire storm that would destroy anything, or anybody, within its range if the news were to break. Within a month or so, I had pretty much moved into Helen's cottage-like house in Markham Street. From the outset, I never made any secret of the fact that I wanted to start a family with her. If we had our own children, nobody was going to know (or care) that the eldest had a different biological father. Helen did not seem averse to this idea, and she was a brilliant mother. The other good news was that, as the works proceeded at Upton Cressett, Helen started to get involved.  I had taken her to Shropshire within weeks of us starting to see each other. She had a natural decorator's eye and was soon helping source items for the house. She seemed to love Upton Cressett, even if it were still mostly a building site. Instructions soon followed for buying a complete set of Fissler cooking pans (in Harrods' sale). I was to consider only Miele dishwashers and washing machines and so on. But I was happy to do anything that led to us moving in together. Yet rumours about the identity of the father refused to stop humming. After two months or so, it was decided between myself, Helen, her mother and stepfather that we needed a 'Boris Summit' to tell him of our intentions. 'You will have to meet him,' I said, 'and tell him about us.' 'Tell him what?' 'That I'm going to bring up his daughter whether people know the identity of her father or not.' 'Don't you think you should come as well?' asked Helen. 'No,' I said. 'This is between you and Boris. Tell Boris that I'm in love with you and that I'm very fond of Stephanie and that I want to bring her up in Shropshire.  And that within a few years or so, when we're married and have our own children, nobody is going to know that they're not all our own children. He can come up and stay whenever he wants to see Steph.' So Helen went off to meet Boris at Brown's Hotel in Mayfair, alone. As I waited at her house, I had a surreal vision of him becoming part of the extended Cash family, with long Sunday lunches washed down with rosé as he discussed politics with my father.  Maybe Boris would arrive in a bullet-proof Jaguar with a police detail. The 'Boris Summit' at Brown's was a long meeting – worryingly so. Helen was away for at least two hours.  After the second hour started, I began to think I was a fool for having suggested a swanky hotel.  Thankfully, when Helen finally came back, she looked perfectly normal. 'Boris is fine with our plan,' she said. 'He's fine with you bringing up Stephanie.' Boris told her he knew about Upton Cressett as he'd been there for a political house party in the autumn of 1995 at the invitation of my father and my mother, Biddy, who used to work at Downing Street. 'Biddy, I love Biddy. Will Biddy be there?' Boris had exclaimed to Helen. He thought Upton Cressett would make a perfect home for Stephanie, conveniently out of the London public glare. I was already thinking of buying an engagement ring. We were all going to be one glorious, extended happy family. The only problem was this: if the identity of the father got out, our plan was likely to blow up. By now, Helen and Pierre had the results of the paternity test proving Pierre wasn't the father and, against this background, our life started to feel as if a slow-burning fuse had been lit beneath it. By the end of June, the Boris factor was inescapable. Helen and I had been at a Swiss art fair when she stepped outside the exhibition hall to take a call from him.  It was the start of many. In fact, the texts and calls went on for two days and whatever he'd been saying upset her. Helen was unable to sleep and didn't want to talk. Eventually, I couldn't take the pressure-cooker atmosphere any longer so I grabbed some clothes and went down to the bar.  I remember watching football on a TV screen as I sank two whiskies. I could feel I was losing her.  When I returned to the room, Helen hugged me, crying, saying she was 'torn apart' and loved me. It was one of the few times I saw her vulnerable side. Boris's unspoken presence – even just his blond mop appearing on the BBC news – was like a boil, buried underground for months, now surfacing. It was only a matter of time before it burst. Or was lanced. I sensed that, despite her steely core, Helen was deeply upset at the turn of events, and scared.  We all were, including Boris, who was about to announce he was running for a second term as Mayor of London.  What would the exploding powder keg do to his marriage and political career? Helen held wildly vacillating views about his behaviour.  Part of her wanted Stephanie to have a real father in the shape of someone like me, yet another part was upset not to be with the father of her daughter.  Occasionally, she would lash out at those closest to her. I wanted to be with Helen and for us to live between London and Shropshire once the house was finished.  After the blows of my two divorces, which had left me half-broken, I found Helen's energy and fierce, fun, optimism refreshing. I remember once driving in her Mini past a red-brick apartment block near Sloane Square, and she pointed to a building. 'I lived in a flat there when I first moved to London. My rent was more than my salary.' She was often on her BlackBerry under the covers in the middle of the night, contacting Dubai, Qatar, New York, Sydney. Helen lived for the spin of the wheel. Her philosophy was simple: you had to know when to cut your losses and walk out. It was easy enough to see why men – many men – found her so alluring. By July, I felt I was losing control. My phone was ringing constantly from unknown numbers and we had odd callers at Helen's Chelsea home.  It became clear that Pierre had started talking, saying he knew Boris had been conducting an affair with Helen.  He'd encountered the Mayor in a lift late at night at the Morosani Posthotel in Davos in Switzerland where he was staying with Helen.  When the lift doors opened, Boris had been standing there looking nervous, 'his eyes shifting all over the place'.  Pierre began telling friends and journalists that he had seen CCTV of Boris entering his Belgravia house when he was away on business. Back in London, I felt that we, too, were under observation. Helen and I were having a croissant and coffee at a cafe just 100 yards from her Chelsea house.  As we read the papers, a man in a leather bomber jacket came up to us and said: 'What a lovely baby you both have. Would you mind if I take a photograph?' He didn't wait for a reply. After he had taken the photo of Stephanie in her pram and left, I turned to Helen.  'Nobody who isn't a paparazzo would ask to take a photograph at 9am,' I said. 'I think we're being set up.' I could sense something was wrong. Was there an informer? Our last lunch together was at Motcombs wine bar in Belgravia. We drank two bottles of rosé in the sun and talked of marriage.  'Upton Cressett will be ready in a few months,' I'd said. 'We'll have children of our own and we'll look like any other family. Nobody will ask any questions.' We had even ordered curtains for the master bedroom. They were to be edged in dark plum silk velvet, with tassels that could have been chosen by Madame de Pompadour. One week later, the newspapers splashed photographs of Helen and Boris on the front pages alleging that he was the father of her daughter.  A circus of photographers and TV cameramen camped on our London doorstep and she couldn't even get out with Stephanie in her pram. The house became a prison. The killer blow came by text while I was driving through Putney Common the day the story broke, as I was on my way to see a therapist.  So stressful was the B-factor, I'd needed counselling to deal with my romantic despair. Helen texted me to say that she didn't want me to return to Markham Street and insinuated that I was somehow responsible for the leak of the father's identity. My marriage plans were dust. Once again, I was out in the cold – only this time it wasn't clear what my crime had been.  Distraught, I went to stay with my friend Elizabeth Hurley at her farm in Gloucestershire, where Helen and I had been guests in much happier circumstances a month or so before. By William Cash  Plans have a way of going astray when Boris's sexual adventures are involved. When it comes to women, especially smart, attractive women, he is inclined to risk all. As somebody who has been flattened, Big Daddy-style, by the emotional carnage that he often leaves around him, I found myself questioning his moral character.  But my conclusion is that Boris is simply unique because of his election-winning charisma.  When my hopes of marrying Helen blew up overnight, it was hard not to feel angry but, as the weeks and months passed, I realised I couldn't judge him. I too had a failed degree in human relations. I knew what it felt like to be a 'hack on the rack', homeless and facing an expensive divorce. I felt for Boris, who had by now been slung out of his home 'like a tomcat' by wife Marina. I also came to realise, over time, that he did me a huge favour: my life wouldn't have turned out quite so well without our strange entanglement. People often ask me about my thoughts on Boris. My answer? Trust the women, not the jealous rivals.  The women in his life – many of them smart, feisty and attractive, like Helen – have mostly remained stoically supportive.  That's an unusual form of loyalty and testament to his many qualities. Personally, I took the view that smart and intelligent women are more reliable judges of human character than most. Smart women can't stand pessimists. While others wrote him off, I found myself placing a £150 bet two years ago on him to be Prime Minister, at 6-1. I'm glad I did! I have become a true Boris believer. I wrote to Helen for weeks and then months, trying to get her to have a drink 'so we can bring this unholy mess to a conclusion'.  I insisted that I'd had nothing to do with the leak. I travelled to the World Economic Forum in Davos, hoping that she might be there in her mink coat and knee-high sheepskin boots. I didn't see her. I did, however, see Boris addressing a lunch of British business leaders at the Belvedere hotel. After lunch, I cornered him in a corridor. 'Boris, good speech. Well done,' I said.  'Listen, it's about Helen. I know things haven't exactly been easy for any of us, but can I make one thing absolutely clear?  'I want you to know that I had nothing to do with any of the press stories. What on earth had I got to gain?  'I wanted to marry Helen and bring up your daughter as my own. It was that simple.' 'Right… er… got it. Thanks for letting me know.' And then we walked off in different directions.  
