{ By Charlie Moore For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  21:52, 17 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7695653/Alan-Jones-lashes-Israel-Folau-linking-bushfires-drought-gay-marriage.html }
Scott Morrison and Alan Jones have slammed Israel Folau after the disgraced rugby star said bushfires and drought were punishments from God for legalising gay marriage and abortion. In an extraordinary sermon at his north-west Sydney church on Sunday, Folau said recent wildfires that have killed six and decimated 530 homes were God's way of speaking to Australia. The comments sparked a furious reaction from dozens of prominent Australians, including broadcaster Alan Jones who vigorously defended Folau when he was sacked by Rugby Australia for a homophobic Instagram post in April. 'Look, Israel Folau has suggested the fires are God's punishment for the legalisation of same-sex marriage and abortion,' Jones said on 2GB radio station on Monday. 'Now, Israel is a lovely human being, I know him well. Israel, button up. Button up. 'These comments don't help. I'm not going to make any further comment other than that,' he said. Prime Minister Scott Morrison, an evangelical Christian, stressed Folau's comments were not representative of his community. 'The thoughts and prayers, let me stress, from Christians, are very much with those who are suffering under the terrible burden of fire,' Mr Morrison told reporters in Adelaide on Monday. 'I thought these were appallingly insensitive comments. 'If people don't have something sensible and helpful to say, can you just keep it to yourself.'  Labor leader Anthony Albanese said Folau had a history of making provocative comments and that it was incumbent on people with 'common-sense' to reject them. 'His comments are in line with some of his other comments which are pretty reprehensible,' Mr Albanese told Sky News on Monday. 'It would good if people thought before they spoke. These comments certainly won't bring anything positive or constructive to the debate.'    Nationals backbencher and former deputy prime minister Barnaby Joyce also slammed Folau on Monday. 'He throws rocks at us so he feels good, we throw rocks back at him so we feel good ...but not one of those actions is making a sandwich for a person fighting the fires,' Mr Joyce told the Seven Network. 'Not one of those actions is actually in a fire truck trying to stop these fires. Israel can concentrate on what he wants to say and I don't really care and we'll concentrate on the fire.'  Father Rod Bower, who runs an Anglican Church in Gosford, NSW, called Folau's speech theological diarrhea.  He wrote on Facebook: 'Folau's comments are an offense against humanity and a sin against God. 'I know I'm not helping by even sharing this garbage, but I felt I just had to say something. 'People died last week Mr Folau! Your comments are devastatingly insensitive, psychologically damaging and theologically ill-informed. 'I do wish the press would stop reporting the theological Diarrhea. 'Catastrophic bushfires are the consequence on #Climatechange which is the consequence of human not Divine activity.'  Independent NSW MP for Sydney Alex Greewich said the federal government should drop proposed religious freedom laws after Folau's comments. He wrote on Twitter: 'Folau using the tragedy of the bushfires to get attention and cause further harm, should be all the Morrison Government needs to drop their unnecessary and unworkable 'religious freedoms' laws.'  Newspaper columnist Gemma Tognini said: 'As a Christian I feel so desperately sad reading that because that's not the nature of God, that's not the heart of God... I feel like wearing a T-shirt saying 'not on my team'.'  Anglican minister Peter Kurti also said Folau was in the wrong.  He told Sky News: 'If God really was going to punish us for changing the law on abortion and changing the law on marriage, it's the Parliament House in Macquarie St and the Parliament House in Canberra that should have been the target of God's wrath — not the mid-north coast and south Queensland. 'If God was angry, God's aim was off.' Mr Kurti, however, defended Folau's rights to express his views, saying: 'He's a preacher talking to his congregation - surely in Australia we want to defend his right to do so even though we can think the views he expresses are completely wrong and offensive.' The Australian Christian Lobby Group, which is backing Folau is in unfair dismissal fight against Rugby Australia, defended the rugby star. 'Sermons don't lend themselves to quick soundbites, and the media's attempts to paraphrase a sermon has caused some unnecessary angst,' said ACL Managing Director, Martyn Iles. 'For one thing, Israel did not claim to know that the current bushfires are God's direct judgement for same-sex marriage.'  He added: 'Not all Australians will resonate with these beliefs, but the many who do shouldn't be threatened or lose their freedoms.' In his sermon at the Church of Jesus Christ in Kenthurst, Folau said: 'They've legalised same-sex marriage... going against the laws that God says.  'You have changed the law and changed the ordinance of these things. Look how rapid these bushfires, these droughts, all these things have come in a short period of time. You think it is a coincidence or not?'  He continued: 'Abortion - it is okay now to murder and kill infants, unborn children, and they think that to be okay. 'God is speaking to you guys. Australia, you need to repent and you need to take these laws and turn it back to what is right by God, what God says in his word.' The 30-year-old said same-sex marriage and abortion were 'evil in the eyes of God' but were deemed by society as 'good'. 'This generation is full of arrogance and full of pride,' he said. 'They want to turn their back on God. They don't want to know one bit of who God is because they're so immersed in their sinful, wicked, evil ways.'  Four people have died in bushfires on the mid-north coast of NSW, while blazes continue to threaten homes in the state, Queensland and Western Australia.  Folau, one of Australia's best rugby players, was sacked for an Instagram post that urged gay people to repent for their 'sins' and is suing for unfair dismissal.  
