{ By Paula Ahillon For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  08:01, 17 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7694343/Israel-Folau-sermon-sex-marriage-abortion-Australias-bushfires.html }
Leaked video footage shows Israel Folau suggesting same-sex marriage and abortion are to blame for Australia's bushfire crisis.  The devout Christian, who had his $4million Rugby Australia contract torn up over homophobic social media posts, was filmed on Sunday delivering his latest sermon at the Church of Jesus Christ in Kenthurst, Sydney's north-west.   'They've legalised same-sex marriage... Going against the laws that God says,' he said in footage posted to The Truth of Jesus Christ Church's Facebook page.  'Abortion – it's OK now to murder and kill infants, unborn children - and they deem that to be OK.  'Look how rapid these bushfires, these droughts, all these things they've come in a short period of time – you think it's a coincidence?' Folau told worshippers 'God was speaking' to Australia and said: 'You need to repent.'   'What you see out there in the world – it's only a little taste of what God's judgement is like. The news is saying these bushfires are the worst we’ve ever seen in Australia – they haven't seen anything. 'God is speaking to us. Speaking to you to repent and to turn away from this.' The 30-year-old went on to say same-sex marriage and abortion were 'evil in the eyes of God' but were deemed by society as 'good'.    'This generation is full of arrogance and full of pride,' he said. 'They want to turn their back on God. They don’t want to know one bit of who God is because they’re so immersed in their sinful, wicked, evil ways.'  Four people have died in bushfires on the mid-north coast of NSW, while blazes continue to threaten homes in the state, Queensland and Western Australia.  The former Wallabies star in October said he has no regrets over his infamous Instagram post during a conference hosted by the Australian Christian Lobby.   He opened up about why he paraphrased the bible passage, saying he recalled the 'crazy prayer' where he asked God as to whether he would continue to serve him faithfully.  'So I knew it was going to be offensive to a lot of people ... but ultimately it's a message of love,' Folau told the packed room.  In another sermon in June, Folau took aim at transgender children.  He said the government was allowing children, 'basically 16 years old or younger', to go through treatment despite 'not even knowing what they are doing.' 'You see in today's youths and everything, they are allowing young kids in primary school to be able to have the permission to change their gender if they want to by taking away the permission of their parents,' Folau said at the pulpit of his church. 'Now they are trying to take control as a government to make those decisions for young kids who are basically 16 years old or younger, they don't even know what they are doing. 'This is what the devil is trying to do, to instill into the government, into this world, into society, and it is slowly happening.' An emotional Folau preached about figures in the Bible who stood up for their beliefs during an Eastern Sunday sermon on April 21.     He said: 'At some stage, each and every one of us will face our own fiery furnace, and some of us may have already faced that. 'In your workforce, if they're telling you something that will compromise your faith, this is a test of faith in which you're going to be put in a challenge, and the question is "What are you going to do? 'With these guys, they were challenged and it was a matter of life and death, physical death. But they understood their treasures were stored up in heaven, not here on Earth.'   His contract was torn up by Rugby Australia in May after he shared a social media post saying homosexuals were going to hell unless they repent.  He is the first Australian athlete to be sacked for expressing his religious beliefs.  Folau is suing Rugby Australia for unlawfully terminating his contract because of his religious beliefs.   He is seeking $10million in damages.   
