abortion
{ By Andrew Court For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  04:15, 17 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7694241/Louisianas-Democrat-governor-stuns-Trump-WIN-election-beating-Republican-rival.html }
 John Bel Edwards has been re-elected as Louisiana governor, marking a bitter blow to President Donald Trump who publicly endorsed GOP rival Eddie Rispone.  The shock victory was declared late Saturday night, after the President used the runoff election in the Deep South as a test of his own popularity and political prowess heading into the 2020 Presidential race.   Trump made three trips to Louisiana in the past five weeks to rally for Rispone, and he took to Twitter several times on Saturday encouraging Louisianans to head to the polls and turn the state red.  However, the Commander-in-chief's pleas weren't enough to get the GOP contender over the line, with Edwards narrowly clinching victory around 10pm local time.   With the ballots counted, Edwards received 51.3% of the vote in comparison to Rispone's 48.7%  Shortly after the results were announced, Edwards took to the stage to address supporters in Baton Rouge, describing his victory as 'sweet'.  The centrist Democrat struck a conciliatory tone, saying he hoped the state could come together after the hard-fought contest.  'Our shared love for Louisiana is always more important than our differences,' he stated.  He also specifically mentioned Trump in his victory speech, saying: 'As for the President, God bless his heart.'  Trump, meanwhile, chose to ignore the election results on Twitter, gloating instead about his good health after undergoing a physical examination.   The President was desperate to capture Louisiana's governorship for the GOP after Democrats ousted a Republican incumbent in Kentucky just 11 days ago despite Trump's intervention.  Trump and Rispone tried to nationalize the election in Louisiana, a state the President won by 20 percentage points in 2016.  However, things conspired against the Republican party, with 70-year-old Rispone relatively unknown in the state.  The wealthy GOP donor was not among the top-tier candidates Republican leaders hoped would challenge Edwards, and he failed to capture the public imagination despite pouring more than $12 million of his own money into the race. Meanwhile, 53-year-old Edwards, a former state lawmaker from rural Tangipahoa Parish, is also a  centrist Democrat - a factor that helped make him more palatable in conservative Louisiana. The West Point graduate and former Army Ranger opposes gun restrictions, signed one of the nation´s strictest abortion bans and talks of working well with Trump.   'They talk about I'm some sort of a radical liberal. The people of Louisiana know better than that. I am squarely in the middle of the political spectrum,' Edwards has previously said. 'That hasn't changed, and that´s the way we've been governing.' The Democrat highlighted his bipartisan work with the majority-GOP state Legislature to end years of budget crises, pass the first K-12 statewide teacher raise in a decade and overhaul criminal sentencing laws. The GOP loss comes less than two weeks after the Republican governor of Kentucky was ousted in the gubernatorial election, despite the support of President Trump.   Democrat Andy Beshear defeated GOP incumbent Matt Bevin in an election that went down to the wire.  On Saturday, Democratic hopeful Amy Klobuchar taunted Trump about the election upsets in both Louisiana and Kentucky.   'Second governor’s race in two weeks in red state where Trump campaigned & a Dem won... where else can we send him?' she gleefully posted.   
