abortion
{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:03, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7987759/Rudy-Giuliani-Marla-Maples-Dr-Ruth-attend-Zang-Toi-NYFW-show.html }
Rudy Giuliani, Marla Maples, and Dr. Ruth were among the eclectic mix of guests to attend Zang Toi's New York Fashion Week show on Saturday.  Giuliani's appearance at the runway show was a total surprise, according to Toi. He told Women's Wear Daily that President Donald Trump's private attorney was having lunch with his friend, Fox News contributor David Webb, when he decided to attend the presentation.  'Giuliani heard that David was coming to my show and said he wanted to come, too,” Toi said, adding, 'He told me after the show that he was having a lot of fun.'  Scroll down for video   The former New York City mayor seemed to be in great spirits as he took photos with both the designer and fans at the show, which took place just days after Trump's acquittal in his Senate impeachment trial.  While many designers have made it clear that they are anti-Trump, it seems Toi has embraced any and all members of the Republican president's inner circle.  Maples, who is Trump's second ex-wife, is a close friend and avid supporter of the designer.  'Marla, she’s my biggest fan,' Toi told WWD.   And she isn't the only one of the president's exes who has a close relationship with the designer.  Toi gushed that he has been dressing the president's first wife, Ivana Trump, since 1995, and she is one of his 'most loyal customers and friends.'  He also noted that Trump's only daughter with Ivana — Ivanka — modeled for him 'five times.'  Maples, 56, took to Instagram the day after the show to share footage of herself posing with Toi backstage.  'Well, it takes a lot to get me in a pair of high heels these days… and even more to keep me from falling off them. But my friend #ZangToi show was worth it as he shared the heart of fashion #NYC style,' she captioned the clip. 'A great way to spend a Saturday night.' Maples has been a longtime fixture at the designer's shows, which have turned into a who's who of the Republican party. In February 2019, she sat in the front row with Fox News anchor Bill Hemmer, her former stepson Donald Trump Jr., and his girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle.   'I never met Donald Trump Jr. until recently. Kimberly Guilfoyle brought him to the [last] show. I think working-class America can resonate with them because they’re not snooty,' Toi told WWD.  'Don Jr. and Kimberly were so sad that they couldn’t come this time,' he added. 'Both of them were keynote speakers for their father in Reno, Nevada. They work so hard on behalf of their father. Even with all their money, they travel coach class.' Toi sent plenty of showstopping pieces down the runway, including a white cape featuring the city skyline in black and a pink and red gown with a button-down top and a full skirt.   The show's most surprising front-row companions may have been former supermodel Carol Alt and renowned sex therapist Dr. Ruth Westheimer.  Alt, 59, and Dr. Ruth, 91, coincidentally matched in their bright red tops as they sat side by side at the Fall 2020 show.    While Alt has defended Trump in the past, Dr. Ruth, a Holocaust was horrified to see the Trump administration separate refugee children from their parents and have them placed in cages.  Her outrage was what inspired her to start getting political and film her Hulu documentary, Ask Dr. Ruth, which chronicles her life as a Holocaust survivor.  'I don’t talk about politics — except these days, I’ve changed my mind,' she told the Daily Beast in June.  'I do stand up to express how upset I am when I see children being separated from their parents — because that’s my story, of my life — and also how upset I am about the issue of abortion and the issue of family planning, because that is what I worked on my entire professional life. In a sense it all fits together, and it permits me to state my philosophy.'  
