abortion
{ By Barbara Davies for The Mail on Sunday   Published:  22:12, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7971451/How-Jeremy-Bambers-sister-Bambi-overjoyed-meet-birth-mother-months-murder.html }
For Reverend Canon Eric Jay, the Queen's Coronation in 1953 was a career highlight. The Archbishop of Canterbury's senior chaplain played a pivotal role in Elizabeth II's enthronement at Westminster Abbey, dressed in formal robes and church regalia for the televised ceremony watched by millions. But, just three years after that glorious day, the highly respected clergyman found himself caught up in a more challenging drama when he discovered his teenage daughter was pregnant. Jay's 17-year-old daughter Christine was sent to the West Country, where she gave birth in secret before reluctantly handing over her baby girl for adoption. Such stories were not uncommon in Fifties Britain, but it was the events which followed — and the horrific fate that lay in wait for that baby girl — which makes this one heart-rending. That tiny girl grew up to be tragic Sheila 'Bambi' Caffell, who was murdered in August 1985 along with her six-year-old twin sons and the couple who adopted her, Nevill and June Bamber. All five were shot in the family's remote Essex farmhouse by the Bambers' adopted son, Jeremy. The story of their horrific murders is the subject of an ongoing six-part ITV drama, White House Farm. But while the programme has reignited interest in one of Britain's most shocking — and baffling — multiple murders, the story of Sheila's adoption as a two-week old baby and her quest to be reunited with her birth mother has all but been forgotten. It was just a few months before she died that Sheila finally met Christine, who was by then in her mid-40s. With Sheila suffering frail mental health, it was a joyful episode in her troubled life. One of Sheila's closest friends, Tora Tomkinson, witnessed that first meeting between mother and daughter at her North London flat. As she exclusively told the Mail this week: 'It really was a privilege to see how well the two of them got on. We were sat there on the sofa and into the room came this ray of light. She was equally as beautiful and equally as lovely as her daughter. 'It was so nice to see Bambi so in tune with this woman who was her real mother when she was so out of kilter with her adoptive mother.' Speaking to the Mail this week, Sheila's ex-husband, sculptor Colin Caffell, described the encounter in similar terms: 'Seeing Sheila meet her birth mother for the first time was clearly a positive experience for her that began to reveal the beginnings of her emotional and psychological recovery; something that grew in strength during the weeks to follow. 'She had found a mother and an identity that she could relate to. Apart from the day she gave birth to the twins, I had never seen Sheila so happy.' But the tragedy for Sheila's birth mother, said to look uncannily like her daughter, was that almost immediately after being reunited with her daughter — and discovering she had twin grandsons Nicholas and Daniel — they were snatched away from her in the most evil of circumstances. In 1956, Christine had been working as a receptionist at the Bonnington Hotel in Southampton Row, Bloomsbury, when she became pregnant by an older man. Her horrified parents, Eric and Margaret, arranged for her to leave London, telling their two younger children, Susan and Peter, that she had been offered another job. Christine lived under her mother's maiden name, Webb, and worked in the village of Combe Down just outside Bath. Her daughter was born on July 18, 1957, in a private nursing home in a grand regency house. While the baby was given the name Phyllis Webb, Christine left a blank space for the father's name. According to Sheila's own research, he was a 30-year-old dry cleaner from Putney who disappeared abroad after his relationship with Christine ended. Phyllis stayed with her mother for two weeks before going into the care of the Church of England Children's Society and being taken to Sunnyside children's home in Wiltshire. It was her grandfather, Dr Eric Jay, who oversaw her adoption when she was three months old. He picked the Bambers, not only because they were deeply committed Christians but because he had crossed paths with Nevill Bamber during the war when they both served in the RAF. On October 10, 1957, Phyllis left Sunnyside for White House Farm, the beautiful Georgian farmhouse near Tolleshunt D'Arcy in Essex that would be the scene of her horrific death 28 years later. The adoption was officially sanctioned at Essex County Court in Maldon on February 6, 1958 — the year the Jays left Britain for Canada, where Dr Jay spent the next 17 years as Professor of Historical Theology at McGill University in Montreal. It was in the university's stunning chapel that Christine married in 1965. She and her husband, who died in 2018, went on to have three children and five grandchildren. In the UK, life with the Bambers was rather less straightforward. June was from a farming family.After she married Nevill, her father offered him the tenancy of White House Farm. All that was missing from their lives were children and when they were unable to have any, they turned to the Church to help them adopt. But there were early warning signs that all was not well. In 1958, when the baby girl they had renamed Sheila was still only a few months old, June was admitted to a private psychiatric hospital in Northampton suffering from depression. After failing to respond to medication or psychoanalysis, she was given electric shock therapy. When she returned home several months later, Nevill hired a nanny to help with the baby. The couple decided to adopt again and in 1961 they brought home a six-month-old baby boy — Jeremy. From the outside, the two children appeared to enjoy a blessed life. In reality, it was anything but. They were educated privately, but both struggled after being sent away to school and neither excelled academically. Sheila was desperate to get away from her deeply religious family and head for London. After leaving school at 16, she enrolled at a secretarial college in Swiss Cottage and began modelling. But in 1974, aged 17, in an echo of her own birth mother, she became pregnant by her boyfriend, and future husband, Colin Caffell. The Bambers arranged an abortion. By now, Sheila's relationship with her mother was becoming increasingly fraught. Her lack of physical affection left Sheila dreaming of her real mother. According to Colin, when he and Sheila were caught by June sunbathing naked in a field she called her the 'devil child'. After Sheila became pregnant again, she and Colin married in May 1977, but she lost the baby at six months. She suffered another miscarriage before giving birth to twin sons in June 1979. But the marriage to Colin broke down five months later and they divorced in 1982. While they remained friends, the years that followed were painful ones, dogged by Sheila's depression and mental illness and she began undergoing treatment in 1983 for mild schizophrenia. Jeremy Bamber would later try to use her fragile mental health as a motive for murder when he initially convinced police Sheila carried out the killings before taking her own life. In the aftermath of the murders, much was made in the Press of Sheila's fragile mental state and whether or not meeting her mother had tipped her over the edge. Tora Tomkinson had become one of Sheila's closest friends after they got chatting outside the North London kindergarten which Tora's daughter attended with Sheila's twins. Tora said: 'We just seemed to get on well and I asked her if she fancied coming back for a coffee one morning and it just went from there. Bambi was the most wonderful, gentle, kind girl. 'She had told me she was adopted and her adoptive mother was so unkind, cruel even to her. She used every opportunity to put her down and I never understood that. Mothers are supposed to nurture and she just seemed jealous.' Tora recalls that in May 1985 — three months before the murders — Sheila finally had the opportunity to meet the woman who gave birth to her. They had been writing to each other for several years. 'One day out of the blue Bambi asked me if she could meet her real mother at my home, as she wanted me there for moral support,' she recalls. 'She was very nervous and thought it might be best to be somewhere neutral and with someone else in case it didn't work out. I'm adopted, too, so I was fascinated to see how they interacted. 'They spent most of the afternoon together and it was so natural and they got on so well.' According to Tora, Christine said she never wanted to give up Sheila, but she 'loved her father and felt she had to do what was expected of her'. Tora was not there when, later that week, Sheila introduced Christine to Colin and the twins. According to Colin, Christine lavished the boys with kisses and hugs. Colin later described that meeting as 'one of the biggest, most important events of her life'. In his 1994 book In Search Of The Rainbow's End, he said: 'I will never forget the look of sheer joy on Bambs' [his nickname for her] face when I first saw them together. She was beaming from ear to ear, with a smile I hadn't seen the like of since the birth of the twins.' He said that Christine, 'an elegant woman in her mid-40s, was as beautiful as her daughter, and so obviously her real mum. To see them chatting together, one would have thought they were more like sisters — or old school friends comparing notes. There was an instant rapport between them. Bambs told me later that Christine was everything she ever dreamed she would be; that she had this wonderful feeling that she had an identity at last'. Of Sheila's mental illness, Tora says: 'She went to some really dark places. I think it was the malevolent influences of June and Jeremy. She loved her adoptive father, Nevill. He was a lovely man but she couldn't see him without seeing them and it didn't do her any good. I know Bambi was very frightened of Jeremy. He was so arrogant, selfish and self-obsessed and he had a very quick temper.' In fact, the last time Tora saw Sheila was just before the fateful weekend. 'She was so tired and pale and drawn,' Tora recalls. 'She had asked me to go with her [to Essex] but I had this strange sense of foreboding. There was something I just didn't feel comfortable about. Perhaps it was the fact I knew how much she struggled with seeing June and Jeremy and I didn't want to be a part of it. 'I told a little white lie about my son not being very well. She phoned again before she went and begged me to go. I didn't, though, and that knowledge has stayed with me ever since.' Tora adds: 'The first and last time I met Jeremy was at Bambi's funeral and his performance was just so over the top you could tell it wasn't genuine. There was no malice in her. She was so sweet. She definitely did not kill anyone.' A couple of months after the murders, Colin met Christine for a second time as she passed through Heathrow Airport. 'I found that morning with Christine one of the most moving and tragic of the entire story,' he wrote. 'I was faced with a tormented and sensitive woman, who had been drawn into the whole catastrophe at the very last minute. She was almost a stranger and yet so deeply and intrinsically involved.' The weeks following Sheila's death were a nightmare for Christine, he said. At the time, her other children didn't know of Sheila's existence. Above all, she told Colin, she felt guilty, saying: 'I feel like I'm partly responsible having had her adopted in the first place.' This week, Christine — now in her 80s and still living in North America — declined to talk about Sheila. Colin Caffell, who is remarried and living in Cornwall has remained in contact with her. Christine's father, Eric Jay, died in 1989 aged 81. Jeremy Bamber, 59, who is serving five life sentences without the possibility of parole, maintains his innocence. The latest of several attempts to appeal his conviction came just three months ago when he said new evidence — a phone call he made — gave him the 'ultimate alibi'. Nearly 35 years have passed since the events at White House Farm and yet for the relatives of those who died, the horror of what took place there has left a tragic legacy. 
