{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  03:48, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7968073/Bushfire-heroes-hailed-SA-parly-opens.html }
Those on the front line of the battle against devastating bushfires across South Australia this summer have been hailed at the opening of state parliament for 2020. Governor Hieu Van Le told a joint sitting of the House of Assembly and the Legislative Council that "no praise was too high" for firefighters and other emergency workers who had shown unwavering commitment and courage. "We remain in their debt for the lives saved and the property losses avoided," Mr Le said as he led applause from MPs for emergency service representatives in the public gallery. The governor said he had spent some time with those who had suffered terrible losses during the bushfires which ravaged parts of the Adelaide Hills and Kangaroo Island, and was in awe at their resilience. He said he had also met many who continued to sacrifice time with their families to defend and support their communities. "This experience is to see South Australians at the very best," the governor said. In his hour-long address to open the second session of the 54th parliament, Mr Le said the government acknowledged concerns about continued drought and bushfires on the sustainability of the environment and the state's economy, and the impact posed by climate change. "South Australia's climate is changing and my government believes further change is inevitable," he said. But it should not be a cause for community division or despair, and the best response was to implement practical measures that secured emissions abatement without increasing energy costs or reducing jobs. The governor said the government would release a comprehensive climate change strategy later in 2020 including the proposal to reduce emissions by more than 50 per cent on 2005 levels by 2030. With parliament returning, the state government also vowed to bring back key legislation rejected in the state's upper house last year. Bills to resurface include those to permanently allow genetically-modified crops to be grown on the SA mainland, to remove restrictions on shop trading hours and to cap increases in council rates. The government said it would also introduce a bill to remove abortion from the state's criminal code and include it as a regulated medical procedure, which would be subject to a conscience vote among all MPs. 
