{ By Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter and Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:28, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7967687/Trump-hail-Great-American-Comeback-SOTU-aim-socialism-illegal-immigration.html }
A bitter feud between President Donald Trump and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi boiled over at his State of the Union speech on Tuesday, with Trump snubbing her outstretched hand and Pelosi ripping apart a copy of his remarks behind his back.  Trump delivered the astonishing snub to Pelosi as he started his speech by ignoring her as she offered him a handshake, which set the tone for a full-throated condemnation of his political enemies and his presidential predecessors in front of a divided Congress. He simply turned away as the Speaker took her copy of his speech, then stood in front of a chamber which echoed with cries of 'four more years' from Republicans. That moment set the tone for the rest of the night. Pelosi, at times, was seen biting her lip or holding up a page of the president's remarks close in front of her face and staring at it intently as the president launched zingers at his political enemies through bragging about policy accomplishments or attacking what the Democratic opposition wanted to do. She shook her head when Trump claimed he saved the pre-existing condition provision of Obamacare - a law Pelosi fought to get passed and the president tried to dismantle.  The speech was so contentious and divisive that Pelosi tore it up when the president was done speaking. As he left the dais, she ripped the pages in half and threw them down. Democratic lawmakers also fled the chamber in droves when Trump was done talking.  'I tore it up,' Pelosi told reporters after the speech was over. 'It was the courteous thing to do considering the alternative. It was such a dirty speech.'  The one hour and 20 minute speech veered back and forth between campaign rally and reality TV show. In between bragging about the American economy and his killing of Iranian General Qasem Soleimani, Trump handed out awards and reunited a military spouse with her husband, freshly home from Afghanistan. It was a combination of the moments Trump loves best: the made-for-television attention grabbing tactics with overly boastful claims of his accomplishments. And through it all Democrats sat and watched, mainly in silence, some so infuriated by the spectacle they left the chamber. The one word he didn't mention in his nearly 6,000 word speech was the 'I' word: impeachment. The Senate will vote Wednesday on whether or not to convict him on the two articles against him: abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. He's expected to be acquitted in the Republican-controlled chamber where it would take a two-thirds vote to convict him. But even though the word wasn't mentioned, it loomed over the bitterly divided atmosphere in the room. 'America's enemies are on the run, America's fortunes are on the rise and America's future is blazing bright,' Trump said. 'In just three short years, we have shattered the mentality of American decline and we have rejected the downsizing of America's destiny. We are moving forward at a pace that was unimaginable just a short time ago, and we are never going back.' Trump's speech resembled a lower-volume version of his campaign rallies, providing something for every section of his political base.  He spent much of the speech highlighting the economy's strength, including low unemployment, stressing how it has helped blue-collar workers and the middle class, though the period of growth began under his predecessor, Barack Obama.  Trump stressed the new trade agreements he has negotiated, including his phase-one deal with China and the United States-Mexico-Canada agreement he signed last month.  He vowed to protect two entitlements that are the benchmarks of Democratic values: Medicare and Social Security.  'We will always protect your Medicare, and we will always protect your social security. Always,' he said. He also got in a snub at the progressive call for universal healthcare, known as Medicare for All. It's not only a hallmark for liberal members of Congress, it's being touted on the campaign trail by Democratic presidential candidates Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. 'Many experts believe that transparency which will go into full effect at the beginning of next year will be even bigger than health care reform. It will save families massive amounts of money for substantially better care, but as we work to improve Americans' health care, there are those who want to take away your health care, take away your doctor, and abolish private insurance entirely. 132 lawmakers in this room have endorsed legislation to impose a socialist takeover of our health care system. Wiping out the private health insurance plans of 180 million very happy Americans. To those watching at home tonight, I want you to know, we will never let socialism destroy American health care,' Trump said. He attacked Democrats – and Pelosi's home state of California – for their stance on immigration, another topic he uses frequently on the campaign trail to rile up his supporters.   'Over 130 legislators in this chamber have endorsed legislation that would bankrupt our nation by providing free taxpayer-funded health care to millions of illegal aliens, forcing taxpayers to subsidize free care for anyone in the world who unlawfully crosses our borders. These proposals would raid the Medicare benefits of our seniors and that our seniors depend on, while acting as a powerful lure for illegal immigration. That is what is happening in California and other states. Their systems are totally out of control. Costing taxpayers vast and unaffordable amounts of money,' Trump said.  He also bragged about his border wall, which Democrats have refused to fully fund. 'This will be a tremendous boon to our already strongly guarded southern border. Where as we speak a long, tall, and very powerful wall is being built. We have now completed over 100 miles and have over 500 miles fully completed in a very short period of time. Early next year, we will have substantially more than 500 miles completed,' he said.  The chamber was notably quiet during several portions of his remarks on health care and immigration. Many Republicans wish to reform Medicare and Social Security. Plus the political attacks on the president's rivals were an usual addition to the State of the Union address, which usually focuses on the president's vision for American and his goals for the coming year. At one point, Pelosi put down the text of the speech and simply shook her head. Some of her Democratic lawmakers fought back against the president, standing during his healthcare remarks to shout 'H.R. 3, H.R. 3.' That bill is the legislation that would lower prescription drug bill costs. It passed the House but died in the Republican-controlled Senate. Pelosi named it after the late Democratic Congressman Elijah Cummings, her close friend who championed the measure.  In one of the more unusual moments of the night, Trump awarded conservative talk radio show host Rush Limbaugh the Presidential Medal of Freedom - the nation's highest civilian honor. Limbaugh announced earlier this week he had advanced lung cancer. He was seen being brought into the Capitol in a wheelchair Tuesday evening. Trump, in his remarks, praised Limbaugh's career and his reputation as a fighter. 'Almost every American family knows the pain when a loved one is diagnosed with a serious illness. Here tonight is a special man. Beloved by millions of Americans who just received a stage 4 advanced cancer diagnosis. This is not good news, but what is good news is that he is the greatest fighter and winner that you will ever meet. Rush Limbaugh. Thank you for your decades of tireless devotion to our country,' he said. Then he added his surprise for the host, who was visibly shocked at what Trump said: 'Rush, in recognition of all that you have done for our nation, the millions of people a day that you speak to and you inspire and all of the incredible work that you have done for charity, I am proud to announce tonight that you will be receiving our country's highest civilian honor. The presidential medal of freedom.' The president asked first lady Melania Trump to do the honors. Limbaugh was seated next to the first lady in her box above the chamber.  Melania rose to put the gold medal – on a bright blue ribbon – around Limbaugh's next, pausing to straighten so it laid properly against his suit. One of the many jaw-dropping moments of the night came when Trump reunited a Fort Brag, North Carolina soldier with his family. The wife and two children of Army Sergeant Townsend Williams, who was deployed in Afghanistan, were among Trump's guests at the address to Congress.  He began to tell their story - in Williams' absence - by introducing his wife Amy Williams and their children. 'War places a heavy burden on our extraordinary military families, especially spouses like Amy Williams from Fort Bragg, North Carolina and her two children,' Trump said, explaining that Williams' husband has been in Afghanistan on his fourth deployment.  'Amy's kids haven't seen their father's face in many months. Amy, your family's sacrifice makes it possile for all of our families to live in safety and in peace, and we want to thank you. Thank you, Amy,' Trump said, prompting applause from the chamber.  Williams stroked her son's hair while her daughter clutched her arm as Trump, in a stunning move, announced he was back from deployment. 'But Amy, there is one more thing. Tonight, we have a very special surprise. I am thrilled to inform you that your husband is back from deployment,' Trump said, as the reality dawned on Williams and she put her hand over her mouth. The applause got louder. 'He is here with us tonight, and we couldn't keep him waiting any longer' the president said. To Amy's visible shock and near tears, her husband walked down the stairs in his dress uniform to embrace his children and hug his wife.  Lawmakers on both sides of the political aisle – including Pelosi – stood to applaud. Some shouted 'USA, USA, USA.'  The president at times seemed to double as a game show host by giving away gifts as he hailed the guests he invited to his address. He gave a scholarship to Janiyah Davis, a fourth grader from Philadelphia, to attend any school of her choosing.  Trump also introduced 13-year-old Iain Lanphier, an eighth-grader from Arizona, to promote the launch of Space Force, the first new military service in more than 70 years. Trump said Lanphier 'has his eye on the Space Force' and noted that his hero, sitting next to him, was his great-grandfather, Charles McGee, one of the last surviving Tuskegee Airmen. They both received bipartisan applause.  Among the other guests hosted by Trump and Melania was Afghanistan Army veteran Tony Rankins, a recovering drug user who is now a construction worker in a so-called 'opportunity zone' in Cincinnati, Ohio. These zones were created by the Trump administration as part of the 2017 tax cuts and are low-income areas that receive tax advantages to drum up more investment. The Trump administration has also touted the strides it has made toward decreasing overdose deaths – and last week White House Counselor Kellyanne Conway delivered a rare press briefing where she announced overdose deaths in 2019 decreased for the first time in decades. When Trump looked up at Kelli and Gage Hake of Stillwater, Oklahoma, he reminded the nation about the targeted drone strike he ordered in January that killed Qassem Soleimani, then Iran's top military commander.  Kelli Hake was home with Gage, then 1-year-old, in the spring of 2008 when she was informed that her husband, Army Staff Sgt. Christopher Hake, had been killed during his second tour of duty in Iraq. The White House claims the sergeant's fighting vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb supplied by Soleimani.  Trump also highlighted his clampdown on illegal immigration, using the December 2018 killing in California of Rocky Jones. The White House blames California's 'sanctuary state' policy for allowing the release from jail of a man it said should have been deported instead. The man went on a crime spree and Jones was among the victims, according to local news reports. The victim's brother, Jody Jones, was a State of the Union guest.  Another one of Trump's guests was Border Patrol Deputy Chief Raul Ortiz.  Also attending the speech was Ivan Simonovis, the former police chief of Venezuela's capital of Caracas. Simonovis was imprisoned in 2004 and held for nearly 15 years on what he considered trumped-up charges of ordering police to fire on pro-government demonstrators during a coup against then-President Hugo Chavez. Simonovis escaped last year and was brought to the United States. His detention has been a rallying cry for the opposition in Venezuela, currently led by Juan Guaidó, who has the backing from the U.S. and nearly 60 nations that considered President Nicolas Maduro's 2018 election a fraud. These countries also blame Maduro's socialist policies for a political and economic crisis threatening the region's stability. Guaidó was also a special guest with Trump calling the 'true and legitimate' leader of Venezuela. One of the president's favorite lines on the campaign trail is to promise his supporters he won't let Democrats turn the United States into a socialist country like Venezuela. 'Thank you, Mr President. Great honor. Thank you very much. Please take this message back that all Americans are united with the Venezuelan people in their righteous struggle for freedom,' he told Guaido. That moment was one of rare bipartisanship when even Pelosi joined in the applause.  In a sign of the increasing tension between the speaker and the president, Pelosi did not stand or applaud when Trump praised Melania Trump's Be Best campaign. First ladies usually warrant bipartisan support and praise. 'Every young person should have a safe and secure environment in which to learn and to grow. For this reason, our magnificent first lady has launched the 'Be best' initiative to advance a safe, healthy, supportive, and drug-free life for the next generation. Online, in school, and in our communities. Thank you, Melania, for your extraordinary love and profound care for American's children. Thank you very much,' he told his wife.   The president also singled out Republican Senate Leader Mitch McConnell, the man who took the lead on ensuring a speedy impeachment trial for the president that would keep additional witnesses from testifying. McConnell – with his power as the head of Senate – also stymied Democrats' legislation, keeping it from reaching the president's desk.  Trump specifically mentioned McConnell's role in getting conservative justices appointed to the courts, particularly Neil Gorsuch and the controversial Brett Kavanaugh. McConnell, in 2016, did not hold confirmation hearings on Barack Obama's Supreme Court nominee, saying the newly-elected president should get the nomination. His gamble played off. 'Working with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell - thank you Mitch - and his colleagues in the Senate, we have confirmed a record number of 187 new federal judges to uphold our constitution as written. This includes two brilliant new Supreme Court justices. Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. Thank you. And we have many in the pipeline,' he noted. As his political rhetoric went on, Rep. Jackie Speier left the chamber when the president began talking about abortion. Former presidential candidate Rep. Tim Ryan also walked out as did three other Democratic lawmakers. 'I'm also calling upon members of Congress tonight to pass legislation finally banning the late term abortion of babies,' Trump said. A protester was also removed during Trump's speech when he vowed to protect the right to bear arms. 'So long as I am president I will always protect your second amendment right to keep and bear arms,' he said. Pelosi was seen pointing up and gesturing at the protester. The protester, Fred Guttenberg, was Pelosi's guest. He's the father of Jaime Guttenberg, who was killed in the February 2018 Parkland, Florida shooting.  Trump's remarks came just hours after a new poll revealed he has reached record high approval ratings.  A Gallup poll shows Trump with 49 per cent approval, the highest this particular survey has recorded since the start of his presidency – and also revealed his approval is at 94 per cent among Republicans, which is a 6 per cent increase from a poll taken in early January. The new high came as 46 per cent of Americans said in the same survey, taken January 16-29, that they are in favor of the Senate voting to convict and remove Trump from office.  Trump, however, ignored the elephant in the room in his remarks. He declared that the state of the union is strong even as the two political parties remain bitterly divided over impeachment – and a vote on whether to acquit or convict the president will take place in the Senate the day after the annual address. But instead of focusing on impeachment – which has monopolized Washington's attention since the investigation was launched in September – the president spent his remarks focusing on the 'wins' of his administration while staring down those who want to see him removed from office.  Trump touted his high approval on Tuesday, but appeared to be referencing a different poll. 'My Approval Rating in the Republican Party = 95%, a record! Big Iowa win. Approval Rating overall = 53%, a new high,' he boasted in a tweet. 'With our great Economy and other major successes, would be 20 points higher without the phony Witch Hunts and Hoaxes???' His previous highest approval rating in the Gallup polling was 46 per cent toward the start of the summer.    A new Morning Consult poll released Tuesday morning shows that the Majority of Americans say the economy is their top issue going into the 2020 election. In the open-response question to 4,400 Americans, 28 per cent said economic issues are the biggest contributing factor to how they will vote at the ballot box in November. Eighteen per cent of respondents said their biggest issue in the elections was national security, 15 per cent said health care issues, 10 per cent said senior issues and 9 per cent said partisanship. Out of the 20 different responses, the rest all had 5 per cent or less – including environment, immigration, education and guns. Five per cent of respondents said 'nothing' is their main focus and 2 per cent said 'everything.' 'This will be the first time the President has done one of these while there are people in the Chamber who are wanting to replace him as President,' another reporter pushed. 'How does the President feel about that? Will he mention any of those people or allude to them in any way?' 'I won't preview if he's going to call anybody out because I – but I think the President will be entirely comfortable with that,' the official claimed. 'I think – yeah, I'll just – I'll just say that.' While the president delivers a hopeful message that focuses on the successes of his administration, about half of the lawmakers listening to his remarks have made it clear they want to kick him from office through impeachment.  On Monday the prosecution and defense presented closing arguments on the Senate floor and on Tuesday senators were given the chance to make remarks in the trial – and these two days followed two weeks of trial in the Senate with a proposal rules portion, opening arguments, senators' question-and-answer sessions and closing arguments. On Wednesday the Republican-majority chamber will vote on the president's fate – which almost certainly will be acquittal.  Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, who was forced to stay back in Washington, D.C. during the impeachment trial instead of continuing on the campaign trail, decided to hold a rally in New Hampshire Tuesday night rather than attending the State of the Union address.  Sanders wasn't the only one skipping out on speech, which is historically attended by all federal lawmakers.  One of his highest profile surrogates, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, revealed she was boycotting the address this year – claiming attending would 'normalize' the actions of what she calls an illegitimate president. 'After much deliberation, I have decided that I will not use my presence at a state ceremony to normalize Trump's lawless conduct & subversion of the Constitution,' the progressive New York congresswoman tweeted. 'None of this is normal, and I will not legitimize it,' the 30-uear-old lawmaker asserted. 'Consequently, I will not be attending the State of the Union.' She was also joined by fellow 'squad' member Ayanna Pressley. 'The State of the Union is hurting because of the occupant of the White House, who consistently demonstrates contempt for the American people, contempt for Congress & contempt for our constitution. I cannot in good conscience attend tonight's sham #SOTU' the Massachusetts representative tweeted. Pressley and Ocasio-Cortez are part of a quartet of congresswomen who make up the so-called 'squad' – which also includes Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar. Although Omar and Tlaib are attending the address, Ocasio-Cortez made sure she clarified the decision to show up was 'personal.' 'This is a deeply personal decision for each member to make, and a choice I did not take lightly,' she said in a tweet attached to her original announcement. Several other Democrats also announced Monday and Tuesday they were boycotting Trump's third State of the Union address. Maxine Waters, who often publicly spars with Trump, tweeted her opposition to the speech shortly after Ocasio-Cortez. 'To think that I would attend the #SOTU to hear the message of an IMPEACHED president is a thought that in no way would be consistent w/ my fight and struggle against this dishonorable president. I will certainly NOT be there!' the 81-year-old California congresswoman tweeted. Steve Cohen, a Democratic representative from Tennessee, also said he was participating in the boycott. 'I have not attended prior Trump State of the Union addresses, and won't attended Tuesday night's, because I don't believe the President has the character or veracity necessary to address Congress from that august podium and is not worthy of the dignity and respect accorded to his predecessors,' Cohen said in a statement released Monday. Earl Blumenauer, who represents Oregon in the House, also announced Monday night that he would boycott. 'I have chosen not to dignify Trump's parade of lies about health care, his persistent exaggeration, and his personal attacks with my attendance,' he said. Earl Blumenauer of Oregon Steve Cohen of Tennessee Al Green of Louisiana Hank Johnson of Georgia  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts   Maxine Waters of California Frederica Wilson of Florida  Al Green, who represents Louisiana, didn't attend either: 'Because of an impeached, reckless, ruthless, lawless, shameless, corrupt, & unapologetically bigoted president - who is still engaging in a coverup, the state of the House, the state of the Senate, and the #StateOfTheUnion are divided. I will NOT attend #SOTU2020,' Green tweeted Tuesday morning. This is the third year in a row that Cohen, Blumenauer and Green skipped Trump's address.  Mike Huckabee, former Arkansas governor, staunch Trump defender and the father of the president's former press secretary, had earlier made fun of the Democratic Party and those planning to skip out on the State of the Union. 'House Dems will boycott @realDonaldTrump SOTU speech but will watch on their app built by Iowa Dems. They expect to see it by Friday afternoon,' Huckabee tweeted Tuesday morning. He referenced the fiasco in the Iowa caucus Monday night, where the state's Democratic Party built an app for the event that ended up malfunctioning. Due to the 'inconsistencies' with the app, no winner was announced Monday and Democratic candidates had to leave Iowa without knowing the results. Some results in certain precincts began reporting around 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, and they had Sanders leading the field with former South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg not far behind. On the other hand, Trump – who is facing no real competition in the primary – won the Republican Iowa caucus with more than 97 per cent.  Dozens of female Democratic lawmakers who attended the address, carried on the theme from last year in wearing all white. The attire choice was a nod to standing in solidarity with the women's suffragette movement of the early 20th century.  Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States, and my fellow citizens: Three years ago, we launched the great American comeback.  Tonight, I stand before you to share the incredible results.  Jobs are booming, incomes are soaring, poverty is plummeting, crime is falling, confidence is surging, and our country is thriving and highly respected again!  America's enemies are on the run, America's fortunes are on the rise, and America's future is blazing bright. The years of economic decay are over.  The days of our country being used, taken advantage of, and even scorned by other nations are long behind us. Gone too are the broken promises, jobless recoveries, tired platitudes, and constant excuses for the depletion of American wealth, power, and prestige.  In just 3 short years, we have shattered the mentality of American decline, and we have rejected the downsizing of America's destiny.  We are moving forward at a pace that was unimaginable just a short time ago, and we are never going back! I am thrilled to report to you tonight that our economy is the best it has ever been.  Our military is completely rebuilt, with its power being unmatched anywhere in the world - and it is not even close. Our borders are secure. Our families are flourishing. Our values are renewed. Our pride is restored. And for all these reasons, I say to the people of our great country, and to the Members of Congress before me: The State of our Union is stronger than ever before!  The vision I will lay out this evening demonstrates how we are building the world's most prosperous and inclusive society -- one where every citizen can join in America's unparalleled success, and where every community can take part in America's extraordinary rise.  From the instant I took office, I moved rapidly to revive the United States economy -- slashing a record number of job-killing regulations, enacting historic and record-setting tax cuts, and fighting for fair and reciprocal trade agreements.  Our agenda is relentlessly pro-worker, pro-family, pro-growth, and, most of all, pro-American. We are advancing with unbridled optimism and lifting high our citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed.  Since my election, we have created 7 million new jobs -- 5 million more than Government experts projected during the previous administration.  The unemployment rate is the lowest in over half a century. Incredibly, the average unemployment rate under my Administration is lower than any administration in the history of our country.  If we had not reversed the failed economic policies of the previous administration, the world would not now be witness to America's great economic success.  The unemployment rates for African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and Asian-Americans have reached the lowest levels in history. African-American youth unemployment has reached an all-time low. African-American poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded. The unemployment rate for women reached the lowest level in almost 70 years -- and last year, women filled 72 percent of all new jobs added. The veterans' unemployment rate dropped to a record low.  The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached an all-time low. Workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment rate recorded in United States history.  A record number of young Americans are now employed. Under the last administration, more than 10 million people were added to the food stamp rolls.  Under my Administration, 7 million Americans have come off of food stamps, and 10 million people have been lifted off of welfare.  In 8 years under the last administration, over 300,000 working-age people dropped out of the workforce. In just 3 years of my Administration, 3.5 million working-age people have joined the workforce. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage-earners has increased by 47 percent -- 3 times faster than the increase for the top 1 percent.  After decades of flat and falling incomes, wages are rising fast -- and, wonderfully, they are rising fastest for low-income workers, who have seen a 16 percent pay-increase since my election.  This is a blue collar boom. Real median household income is now at the highest level ever recorded!  Since my election, United States stock markets have soared 70 percent, adding more than $12 trillion to our Nation's wealth, transcending anything anyone believed was possible -- this, as other countries are not doing well. Consumer confidence has reached amazing new heights. All of those millions of people with 401(k)s and pensions are doing far better than they have ever done before with increases of 60, 70, 80, 90, and even 100 percent.  Jobs and investment are pouring into 9,000 previously-neglected neighborhoods thanks to Opportunity Zones, a plan spearheaded by Senator Tim Scott as part of our great Republican tax cuts. In other words, wealthy people and companies are pouring money into poor neighborhoods or areas that have not seen investment in many decades, creating jobs, energy, and excitement.  This is the first time that these deserving communities have seen anything like this. It is all working! Opportunity Zones are helping Americans like Army Veteran Tony Rankins from Cincinnati, Ohio. After struggling with drug addiction, Tony lost his job, his house, and his family -- he was homeless. But then Tony found a construction company that invests in Opportunity Zones.  He is now a top tradesman, drug-free, reunited with his family, and he is here tonight. Tony: Keep up the great work.  Our roaring economy has, for the first time ever, given many former prisoners the ability to get a great job and a fresh start.  This second chance at life is made possible because we passed landmark Criminal Justice Reform into law. Everybody said that Criminal Justice Reform could not be done, but I got it done, and the people in this room got it done.  Thanks to our bold regulatory reduction campaign, the United States has become the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world, by far.  With the tremendous progress we have made over the past 3 years, America is now energy independent, and energy jobs, like so many elements of our country, are at a record high. We are doing numbers that no one would have thought possible just 3 years ago.  Likewise, we are restoring our Nation's manufacturing might, even though predictions were that this could never be done.  After losing 60,000 factories under the previous two administrations, America has now gained 12,000 new factories under my Administration with thousands upon thousands of plants and factories being planned or built.  We have created over half a million new manufacturing jobs. Companies are not leaving; they are coming back. Everybody wants to be where the action is, and the United States of America is, indeed, where the action is.  One of the single biggest promises I made to the American people was to replace the disastrous NAFTA trade deal. In fact, unfair trade is perhaps the single biggest reason that I decided to run for President.  Following NAFTA's adoption, our Nation lost one in four manufacturing jobs. Many politicians came and went, pledging to change or replace NAFTA -- only to do absolutely nothing. But unlike so many who came before me, I keep my promises.  Six days ago, I replaced NAFTA and signed the brand new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) into law.  The USMCA will create nearly 100,000 new high-paying American auto jobs, and massively boost exports for our farmers, ranchers, and factory workers. It will also bring trade with Mexico and Canada to a much higher degree, but also to a much greater level of fairness and reciprocity.  This is the first major trade deal in many years to earn the strong backing of America's labor unions. I also promised our citizens that I would impose tariffs to confront China's massive theft of American jobs.  Our strategy worked. Days ago, we signed the groundbreaking new agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, bring billions of dollars into our treasury, and open vast new markets for products made and grown right here in the United States of America.  For decades, China has taken advantage of the United States, now we have changed that but, at the same time, we have perhaps the best relationship we have ever had with China, including with President Xi.  They respect what we have done because, quite frankly, they could never believe what they were able to get away with year after year, decade after decade, without someone in our country stepping up and saying: Enough.  Now, we want to rebuild our country, and that is what we are doing. As we restore American leadership throughout the world, we are once again standing up for freedom in our hemisphere.  That is why my Administration reversed the failing policies of the previous administration on Cuba. We are supporting the hopes of Cubans, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans to restore democracy.  The United States is leading a 59-nation diplomatic coalition against the socialist dictator of Venezuela, Nicolás Maduro. Maduro is an illegitimate ruler, a tyrant who brutalizes his people.  But Maduro's grip of tyranny will be smashed and broken. Here this evening is a man who carries with him the hopes, dreams, and aspirations of all Venezuelans. Joining us in the gallery is the true and legitimate President of Venezuela, Juan Guaidó.  Mr. President, please take this message back to your homeland. All Americans are united with the Venezuelan people in their righteous struggle for freedom!  Socialism destroys nations. But always remember, freedom unifies the soul.  To safeguard American Liberty, we have invested a record-breaking $2.2 trillion in the United States Military. We have purchased the finest planes, missiles, rockets, ships, and every other form of military equipment -- all made in the United States of America.  We are also finally getting our allies to help pay their fair share. I have raised contributions from the other NATO members by more than $400 billion, and the number of allies meeting their minimum obligations has more than doubled.  And just weeks ago, for the first time since President Truman established the Air Force more than 70 years earlier, we created a new branch of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force.  In the gallery tonight, we have one of the Space Force's youngest potential recruits: 13-year-old Iain Lanphier, an eighth grader from Arizona. Iain has always dreamed of going to space.  He was first in his class and among the youngest at an aviation academy. He aspires to go to the Air Force Academy, and then, he has his eye on the Space Force.  As Iain says, 'most people look up at space, I want to look down on the world.' Sitting beside Iain tonight is his great hero. Charles McGee was born in Cleveland, Ohio, one century ago. Charles is one of the last surviving Tuskegee Airmen -- the first black fighter pilots -- and he also happens to be Iain's great-grandfather. After more than 130 combat missions in World War II, he came back to a country still struggling for Civil Rights and went on to serve America in Korea and Vietnam.  On December 7th, Charles celebrated his 100th birthday. A few weeks ago, I signed a bill promoting Charles McGee to Brigadier General.  And earlier today, I pinned the stars on his shoulders in the Oval Office. General McGee: Our Nation salutes you. From the pilgrims to our Founders, from the soldiers at Valley Forge to the marchers at Selma, and from President Lincoln to the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Americans have always rejected limits on our children's future.  Members of Congress, we must never forget that the only victories that matter in Washington are victories that deliver for the American people.  The people are the heart of our country, their dreams are the soul of our country, and their love is what powers and sustains our country.  We must always remember that our job is to put America first! The next step forward in building an inclusive society is making sure that every young American gets a great education and the opportunity to achieve the American Dream.  Yet, for too long, countless American children have been trapped in failing government schools. To rescue these students, 18 States have created school choice in the form of Opportunity Scholarships.  The programs are so popular, that tens of thousands of students remain on waiting lists. One of those students is Janiyah Davis, a fourth grader from Philadelphia. Janiyah's mom Stephanie is a single parent.  She would do anything to give her daughter a better future. But last year, that future was put further out of reach when Pennsylvania's Governor vetoed legislation to expand school choice for 50,000 children. Janiyah and Stephanie are in the gallery this evening.  But there is more to their story. Janiyah, I am pleased to inform you that your long wait is over. I can proudly announce tonight that an Opportunity Scholarship has become available, it is going to you, and you will soon be heading to the school of your choice! Now, I call on the Congress to give 1 million American children the same opportunity Janiyah has just received. Pass the Education Freedom Scholarships and Opportunity Act -- because no parent should be forced to send their child to a failing government school.  Every young person should have a safe and secure environment in which to learn and grow. For this reason, our magnificent First Lady has launched the 'Be Best' initiative -- to advance a safe, healthy, supportive, and drug-free life for the next generation, online, in school, and in our communities.  Thank you, Melania, for your extraordinary love and profound care for America's children.  My Administration is determined to give our citizens the opportunities they need regardless of age or background. Through our Pledge to American Workers, over 400 companies will also provide new jobs and education opportunities to almost 15 million Americans.  My Budget also contains an exciting vision for our Nation's high schools. Tonight, I ask the Congress to support our students and back my plan to offer vocational and technical education in every single high school in America.  To expand equal opportunity, I am also proud that we achieved record and permanent funding for our Nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities.  A good life for American families also requires the most affordable, innovative, and high-quality healthcare system on Earth. Before I took office, health insurance premiums had more than doubled in just 5 years. I moved quickly to provide affordable alternatives.  Our new plans are up to 60 percent less expensive. I have also made an ironclad pledge to American families: We will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions -- that is a guarantee. And we will always protect your Medicare and your Social Security.  The American patient should never be blindsided by medical bills. That is why I signed an Executive Order requiring price transparency. Many experts believe that transparency, which will go into full effect at the beginning of next year, will be even bigger than healthcare reform.  It will save families massive amounts of money for substantially better care. But as we work to improve Americans' healthcare, there are those who want to take away your healthcare, take away your doctor, and abolish private insurance entirely.  One hundred thirty-two lawmakers in this room have endorsed legislation to impose a socialist takeover of our healthcare system, wiping out the private health insurance plans of 180 million Americans. To those watching at home tonight, I want you to know: We will never let socialism destroy American healthcare! Over 130 legislators in this chamber have endorsed legislation that would bankrupt our Nation by providing free taxpayer-funded healthcare to millions of illegal aliens, forcing taxpayers to subsidize free care for anyone in the world who unlawfully crosses our borders.  These proposals would raid the Medicare benefits our seniors depend on, while acting as a powerful lure for illegal immigration. This is what is happening in California and other States -- their systems are totally out of control, costing taxpayers vast and unaffordable amounts of money.  If forcing American taxpayers to provide unlimited free healthcare to illegal aliens sounds fair to you, then stand with the radical left.  But if you believe that we should defend American patients and American seniors, then stand with me and pass legislation to prohibit free Government healthcare for illegal aliens!  This will be a tremendous boon to our already very-strongly guarded southern border where, as we speak, a long, tall, and very powerful wall is being built. We have now completed over 100 miles and will have over 500 miles fully completed by early next year.  My Administration is also taking on the big pharmaceutical companies. We have approved a record number of affordable generic drugs, and medicines are being approved by the FDA at a faster clip than ever before.  I was pleased to announce last year that, for the first time in 51 years, the cost of prescription drugs actually went down. And working together, the Congress can reduce drug prices substantially from current levels.  I have been speaking to Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa and others in the Congress in order to get something on drug pricing done, and done properly.  I am calling for bipartisan legislation that achieves the goal of dramatically lowering prescription drug prices. Get a bill to my desk, and I will sign it into law without delay.  With unyielding commitment, we are curbing the opioid epidemic -- drug overdose deaths declined for the first time in nearly 30 years.  Among the States hardest hit, Ohio is down 22 percent, Pennsylvania is down 18 percent, Wisconsin is down 10 percent -- and we will not quit until we have beaten the opioid epidemic once and for all.  Protecting Americans' health also means fighting infectious diseases. We are coordinating with the Chinese government and working closely together on the Coronavirus outbreak in China. My Administration will take all necessary steps to safeguard our citizens from this threat.  We have launched ambitious new initiatives to substantially improve care for Americans with kidney disease, Alzheimer's, and those struggling with mental health challenges.  And because the Congress funded my request, we are pursuing new cures for childhood cancer, and we will eradicate the AIDS epidemic in America by the end of the decade.  Almost every American family knows the pain when a loved one is diagnosed with a serious illness. Here tonight is a special man, someone beloved by millions of Americans who just received a Stage 4 advanced cancer diagnosis.  This is not good news, but what is good news is that he is the greatest fighter and winner that you will ever meet.  Rush Limbaugh: Thank you for your decades of tireless devotion to our country. Rush, in recognition of all that you have done for our Nation, the millions of people a day that you speak to and inspire, and all of the incredible work that you have done for charity, I am proud to announce tonight that you will be receiving our country's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom.  I will now ask the First Lady of the United States to please stand and present you with the honor. Rush, Kathryn, congratulations!  As we pray for all who are sick, we know that America is constantly achieving new medical breakthroughs. In 2017, doctors at St. Luke's hospital in Kansas City delivered one of the earliest premature babies ever to survive. Born at just 21 weeks and 6 days, and weighing less than a pound, Ellie Schneider was born a fighter.  Through the skill of her doctors -- and the prayers of her parents -- little Ellie kept on winning the battle for life. Today, Ellie is a strong, healthy 2-year-old girl sitting with her amazing mother Robin in the gallery.  Ellie and Robin: We are so glad you are here. Ellie reminds us that every child is a miracle of life.  Thanks to modern medical wonders, 50 percent of very premature babies delivered at the hospital where Ellie was born now survive.  Our goal should be to ensure that every baby has the best chance to thrive and grow just like Ellie. That is why I am asking the Congress to provide an additional $50 million to fund neo-natal research for America's youngest patients.  That is also why I am calling upon the Members of Congress here tonight to pass legislation finally banning the late-term abortion of babies.  Whether we are Republican, Democrat, or Independent, surely we must all agree that every human life is a sacred gift from God!  As we support America's moms and dads, I was recently proud to sign the law providing new parents in the Federal workforce paid family leave, serving as a model for the rest of the country.  Now, I call on the Congress to pass the bipartisan Advancing Support for Working Families Act, extending family leave to mothers and fathers all across the Nation.  Forty million American families have an average $2,200 extra thanks to our child tax credit. I have also overseen historic funding increases for high-quality child care, enabling 17 States to serve more children, many of which have reduced or eliminated their waitlists altogether.  And I sent the Congress a plan with a vision to further expand access to high-quality childcare and urge you to act immediately.  To protect the environment, days ago, I announced that the United States will join the One Trillion Trees Initiative, an ambitious effort to bring together Government and the private sector to plant new trees in America and around the world. We must also rebuild America's infrastructure.  I ask you to pass Senator Barrasso's highway bill -- to invest in new roads, bridges, and tunnels across our land. I am also committed to ensuring that every citizen can have access to high-speed internet, including rural America.  A better tomorrow for all Americans also requires us to keep America safe. That means supporting the men and women of law enforcement at every level, including our Nation's heroic ICE officers.  Last year, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 120,000 criminal aliens charged with nearly 10,000 burglaries, 5,000 sexual assaults, 45,000 violent assaults, and 2,000 murders.  Tragically, there are many cities in America where radical politicians have chosen to provide sanctuary for these criminal illegal aliens. In Sanctuary Cities, local officials order police to release dangerous criminal aliens to prey upon the public, instead of handing them over to ICE to be safely removed.  Just 29 days ago, a criminal alien freed by the Sanctuary City of New York was charged with the brutal rape and murder of a 92-year-old woman. The killer had been previously arrested for assault, but under New York's sanctuary policies, he was set free.  If the city had honored ICE's detainer request, his victim would be alive today. The State of California passed an outrageous law declaring their whole State to be a sanctuary for criminal illegal immigrants -- with catastrophic results. Here is just one tragic example. In December 2018, California police detained an illegal alien with five prior arrests, including convictions for robbery and assault. But as required by California's Sanctuary Law, local authorities released him. Days later, the criminal alien went on a gruesome spree of deadly violence. He viciously shot one man going about his daily work; he approached a woman sitting in her car and shot her in the arm and the chest. He walked into a convenience store and wildly fired his weapon.  He hijacked a truck and smashed into vehicles, critically injuring innocent victims. One of the victims of his bloody rampage was a 51-year-old American named Rocky Jones.  Rocky was at a gas station when this vile criminal fired eight bullets at him from close range, murdering him in cold blood.  Rocky left behind a devoted family, including his brothers who loved him more than anything.  One of his grieving brothers is here with us tonight. Jody, would you please stand? Jody, our hearts weep for your loss -- and we will not rest until you have justice. Senator Thom Tillis has introduced legislation to allow Americans like Jody to sue Sanctuary Cities and States when a loved one is hurt or killed as a result of these deadly policies. I ask the Congress to pass the Justice for Victims of Sanctuary Cities Act immediately.  The United States of America should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans -- not criminal aliens! In the last 3 years, ICE has arrested over 5,000 wicked human traffickers -- and I have signed 9 pieces of legislation to stamp out the menace of human trafficking, domestically and around the globe.  My Administration has undertaken an unprecedented effort to secure the southern border of the United States.  Before I came into office, if you showed up illegally on our southern border and were arrested, you were simply released and allowed into our country, never to be seen again.  My Administration has ended Catch-and-Release.  If you come illegally, you will now be promptly removed. We entered into historic cooperation agreements with the Governments of Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala.  As a result of our unprecedented efforts, illegal crossings are down 75 percent since May -- dropping 8 straight months in a row.  And as the wall goes up, drug seizures rise, and border crossings go down. Last year, I traveled to the border in Texas and met Chief Patrol Agent Raul Ortiz.  Over the last 24 months, Agent Ortiz and his team have seized more than 200,000 pounds of poisonous narcotics, arrested more than 3,000 human smugglers, and rescued more than 2,000 migrants. Days ago, Agent Ortiz was promoted to Deputy Chief of Border Patrol -- and he joins us tonight.  Chief Ortiz: Please stand -- a grateful Nation thanks you and all the heroes of Border Patrol.  To build on these historic gains, we are working on legislation to replace our outdated and randomized immigration system with one based on merit, welcoming those who follow the rules, contribute to our economy, support themselves financially, and uphold our values.  With every action, my Administration is restoring the rule of law and re-asserting the culture of American freedom.  Working with Senate Majority Leader McConnell and his colleagues in the Senate, we have confirmed a record number of 187 new Federal judges to uphold our Constitution as written.  This includes two brilliant new Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch, and Brett Kavanaugh. My Administration is also defending religious liberty, and that includes the Constitutional right to pray in public schools. In America, we do not punish prayer.  We do not tear down crosses. We do not ban symbols of faith. We do not muzzle preachers and pastors. In America, we celebrate faith. We cherish religion. We lift our voices in prayer, and we raise our sights to the Glory of God!  Just as we believe in the First Amendment, we also believe in another Constitutional right that is under siege all across our country.  So long as I am President I will always protect your Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. In reaffirming our heritage as a free Nation, we must remember that America has always been a frontier nation.  Now we must embrace the next frontier, America's manifest destiny in the stars.  I am asking the Congress to fully fund the Artemis program to ensure that the next man and the first woman on the moon will be American astronauts -- using this as a launching pad to ensure that America is the first nation to plant its flag on Mars. My Administration is also strongly defending our national security and combating radical Islamic terrorism. Last week, I announced a groundbreaking plan for peace between Israel and the Palestinians. Recognizing that all past attempts have failed, we must be determined and creative in order to stabilize the region and give millions of young people the change to realize a better future.  Three years ago, the barbarians of ISIS held over 20,000 square miles of territory in Iraq and Syria. Today, the ISIS territorial caliphate has been 100 percent destroyed, and the founder and leader of ISIS -- the bloodthirsty killer Al Baghdadi -- is dead!  We are joined this evening by Carl and Marsha Mueller. After graduating from college, their beautiful daughter Kayla became a humanitarian aid worker. Kayla once wrote, 'Some people find God in church. Some people find God in nature. Some people find God in love; I find God in suffering. I've known for some time what my life's work is, using my hands as tools to relieve suffering.'  In 2013, while caring for suffering civilians in Syria, Kayla was kidnapped, tortured, and enslaved by ISIS, and kept as a prisoner of Al-Baghdadi himself. After more than 500 horrifying days of captivity, Al-Baghdadi murdered young Kayla. She was just 26 years old.  On the night that United States Special Forces Operators ended Al Baghdadi's miserable life, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, received a call in the Situation Room. He was told that the brave men of the elite Special Forces team, that so perfectly carried out the operation, had given their mission a name -- 'Task Force 8-14.'  It was a reference to a special day: August 14th -- Kayla's birthday.  Carl and Marsha, America's warriors never forgot Kayla -- and neither will we. Every day, America's men and women in uniform demonstrate the infinite depths of love that dwells in the human heart.  One of these American heroes was Army Staff Sergeant Christopher Hake. On his second deployment to Iraq in 2008, Sergeant Hake wrote a letter to his 1-year-old son, Gage: 'I will be with you again,' he wrote to Gage.  'I will teach you to ride your first bike, build your first sand box, watch you play sports and see you have kids also. I love you son, take care of your mother. I am always with you. Dad.' On Easter Sunday of 2008, Chris was out on patrol in Baghdad when his Bradley Fighting Vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb.  That night, he made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. Sergeant Hake now rests in eternal glory in Arlington, and his wife Kelli is in the gallery tonight, joined by their son, who is now 13 years old. To Kelli and Gage: Chris will live in our hearts forever.  The terrorist responsible for killing Sergeant Hake was Qasem Soleimani, who provided the deadly roadside bomb that took Chris's life. Soleimani was the Iranian Regime's most ruthless butcher, a monster who murdered or wounded thousands of American service members in Iraq.  As the world's top terrorist, Soleimani orchestrated the deaths of countless men, women, and children. He directed the December assault on United States Forces in Iraq, and was actively planning new attacks.  That is why, last month, at my direction, the United States Military executed a flawless precision strike that killed Soleimani and terminated his evil reign of terror forever.  Our message to the terrorists is clear: You will never escape American justice. If you attack our citizens, you forfeit your life!  In recent months, we have seen proud Iranians raise their voices against their oppressive rulers. The Iranian regime must abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons, stop spreading terror, death, and destruction, and start working for the good of its own people. Because of our powerful sanctions, the Iranian economy is doing very poorly. We can help them make it very good in a short period of time, but perhaps they are too proud or too foolish to ask for that help. We are here. Let's see which road they choose. It is totally up to them.  As we defend American lives, we are working to end America's wars in the Middle East. In Afghanistan, the determination and valor of our warfighters has allowed us to make tremendous progress, and peace talks are underway. I am not looking to kill hundreds of thousands of people in Afghanistan, many of them innocent. It is also not our function to serve other nations as a law enforcement agency. These are warfighters, the best in the world, and they either want to fight to win or not fight at all. We are working to finally end America's longest war and bring our troops back home!  War places a heavy burden on our Nation's extraordinary military families, especially spouses like Amy Williams from Fort Bragg, North Carolina, and her 2 children -- 6-year-old Elliana and 3-year-old Rowan.  Amy works full time, and volunteers countless hours helping other military families. For the past 7 months, she has done it all while her husband, Sergeant First Class Townsend Williams, is in Afghanistan on his fourth deployment to the Middle East. Amy's kids have not seen their father's face in many months.  Amy, your family's sacrifice makes it possible for all of our families to live in safety and peace -- we thank you. As the world bears witness tonight, America is a land of heroes. This is the place where greatness is born, where destinies are forged, and where legends come to life.  This is the home of Thomas Edison and Teddy Roosevelt, of many great Generals, including Washington, Pershing, Patton, and MacArthur.  This is the home of Abraham Lincoln, Frederick Douglass, Amelia Earhart, Harriet Tubman, the Wright Brothers, Neil Armstrong, and so many more.  This is the country where children learn names like Wyatt Earp, Davy Crockett, and Annie Oakley. This is the place where the pilgrims landed at Plymouth and where Texas patriots made their last stand at the Alamo.  The American Nation was carved out of the vast frontier by the toughest, strongest, fiercest, and most determined men and women ever to walk the face of the Earth.  Our ancestors braved the unknown; tamed the wilderness; settled the Wild West; lifted millions from poverty, disease, and hunger; vanquished tyranny and fascism; ushered the world to new heights of science and medicine; laid down the railroads, dug out canals, raised up the skyscrapers -- and, ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors built the most exceptional Republic ever to exist in all of human history.  And we are making it greater than ever before! This is our glorious and magnificent inheritance. We are Americans. We are the pioneers. We are the pathfinders.  We settled the new world, we built the modern world, and we changed history forever by embracing the eternal truth that everyone is made equal by the hand of Almighty God. America is the place where anything can happen! America is the place where anyone can rise. And here, on this land, on this soil, on this continent, the most incredible dreams come true!  This Nation is our canvas, and this country is our masterpiece. We look at tomorrow and see unlimited frontiers just waiting to be explored.  Our brightest discoveries are not yet known. Our most thrilling stories are not yet told. Our grandest journeys are not yet made.  The American Age, the American Epic, the American Adventure, has only just begun!  Our spirit is still young; the sun is still rising; God's grace is still shining; and my fellow Americans, the best is yet to come!  Thank you. God Bless You. God Bless America. 
