medicine
{  
    September 10 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/50-of-us-put-our-lives-at-risk-when-we-take-medicine-26364294.html }
Up to half of patients are not taking U their medicines properly – and it is affecting their condition, claims the Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association. This problem also raises the risk of adverse effects from the medicine. The Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association, which represents drug companies in this country, gave a submission to an Oireachtas committee looking at reactions to medicine. It stated that as recently as 20 years ago, patients were given bottles of medicine with extremely simple labelling. They were merely told to ‘take one, three times a day’ and were not given any information on any possible side-effects that might be caused by their taking the medicine. Drug companies had to respond to criticism of this labelling by collaborating with doctors, pharmacists, regulatory authorities and patients to develop leaflets on safety information. Despite these leaflets, a high number of patients are taking their prescription medicines incorrectly. In order to address this problem, there is certain essential information that people need to tell their doctor or pharmacist – including details about any medicines they are already taking. This is because some medicines affect each other, which can change the way they work. You should also tell your doctor about any allergies or reactions to medicines you have experienced in the past. Your doctor or pharmacist is only trying to help you, and if you don't understand what they said, ask them to explain it again. Be mindful of possible side-effects from the medicine you're taking and make sure that you know what to do if you do experience any adverse effects. It is a good idea to always go to the same pharmacy for your prescriptions and to ask your pharmacist to keep a record of the different medicines you get. When it comes to nonprescription medicine, always read information carefully and follow the instructions given exactly. Non-prescription medicines are not intended for long-term use. If you are not feeling better after a few days, see your doctor. Do not take two or more products containing paracetamol together at the same time. Some medicines run into controversy after they have been licensed for use – sometimes years following their launch. In order to detect an adverse effect, which occurs in one out of 10,000 treated patients, a total of 30,000 patients would have to be involved in the clinical trial. This level of testing is not usually possible before a drug comes on the market – therefore it is only after it is approved that some side-effects come to light.  Medicines: always read the label Keep all medicines out of children’s reach. Some medicines, such as iron supplements, are very toxic to children. Try to take drugs at the same time every day. Link it with something else that you do regularly, such as brushing your teeth. If your doctor told you to take your pills with food, try taking them at the same time as you have your meal every day. Put a reminder note on the fridge, by the phone, on the medicine cabinet or even on the bathroom mirror. Eilish O’Regan
HEALTH & LIVING 
