medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent 
    September 24 2010 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/diabetes-drugs-are-withdrawn-over-safety-concerns-26683565.html }
ANTI-diabetes drugs taken by around 3,000 patients here are being withdrawn after a safety review linked the medicines to a higher risk of heart disease. The Irish Medicines Board (IMB) announced that the anti-diabetes medicines Avandia and Avandamet -- which contain the active ingredient rosiglitazone -- will no longer be available due to safety concerns. However, patients are being told not to stop taking the drugs without consulting their doctor. The active ingredient is made by Glaxosmithcline at its plant in Carrigaline in Cork but a spokeswoman said last night that the ban would not impact on jobs there. The medicines watchdog said yesterday that it was advising doctors not to issue any new or repeat prescriptions for either drug. Patients on the drug are advised to continue taking the medicine for now but they need to consult their doctor for a review of their treatment. It followed a safety review by the European Medicines Agency and a strongly worded article in the 'British Medical Journal', which expressed concern that the active ingredient in it was linked to a higher risk of heart attacks. An expert panel of the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MRHA) had said previously that use should be suspended -- but the drug maker said it was safe if properly monitored. Doctors at the MHRA's advisory body, the Commission on Human Medicines, voted in July for Avandia's withdrawal from the UK. The recommendation was not made public. The IMB said yesterday that it was a participant in a European review on the risks of the drug which concluded yesterday evening. It found the risks of rosiglitazone containing medicines outweigh their benefits. Yesterday, the IMB's medical director, Dr Joan Gilvarry, said: "At the time of authorisation in 2000, it was clearly stated that patients with heart failure or a history of heart failure should not be prescribed rosiglitazone.  Warnings "The medicine was only to be used in patients whose diabetes did not respond satisfactorily to other anti-diabetes medication. "As new data became available, the product information has been updated with new warnings and restrictions on the use of rosiglitazone in patients with ischaemic heart disease." A spokesman for the IMB advised: "Patients who are taking these medicines should make an appointment with their doctor. They should not abruptly stop their medication." Dr Joan Gilvarry added that rosiglitazone has been monitored closely and continually evaluated at European level since it was first licensed. The Cork plant has several years of stocks built up to service around 80 countries. Patients with concerns about their diabetes medication can contact the Glaxosmithcline medical department on freephone 1800 244 255. Irish Independent 
