medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    February 22 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/withdrawal-symptoms-the-news-no-patient-wants-to-hear-26634635.html }
It's the news no patient wants to hear. The drug they have been taking on the advice of their doctor to treat their illness has had to be abruptly withdrawn from sale for "safety reasons". Suddenly, that packet of tablets that was their medical salvation could be the enemy that will make them even sicker. Thankfully, these kind of bombshell announcements are not made too often. The most recent one involved the withdrawal from sale of the drug Reductil, a weight-control medicine. The Irish Medicines Board, the watchdog for drug safety, said it could leave patients at increased risk of heart attack and stroke. Antibiotics, for instance, have performed modern-day miracles, ridding Ireland in particular of the scourge of TB in the 1950s. The reality is that we are very reliant on the State watchdogs here and in Europe whose job it is to licence new drugs and monitor those medicines which have been given the green light and are used by millions worldwide. According to an Irish Medicines Board spokesman, just five medicines have been withdrawn from the Irish market in the last five years. They include Reductil, Bextra and Nimesulide (both pain relievers for forms of arthritis), Acomplia (weight reduction) and Raptiva (for the skin condition psoriasis). Various checks and balances are in place. All reported adverse reactions to drugs are examined in terms of their seriousness. Some side effects may be expected and of no concern. In other cases a doctor may be asked about the patient's medical history, which may contribute to the side effects. Reported side effects are entered into a database and this is able to alert companies to particular trends. Ireland benefits from the international sharing of reports of adverse reactions with pools of data collected by the European Medicines Agency and the World Health Organisation centre for drug monitoring. The spokesman said all individual medicines are assessed and reviewed, weighing benefits against new information which can emerge on risk. This can come from various sources including the scientists and medics around Europe who feed information to the European Medicines Agency of which Ireland is a member. A group of experts, the Committee for Human Medicinal Products in Europe, can weigh up this evidence and recommend a medicine be withdrawn. Withdrawal of a drug may not be the only response and the direction could be to put extra warnings on patient information leaflets about possible side effects. It is often the case that only when a drug, tested before licence on several thousand people, is taken by millions of patients that unexpected side effects emerge which lead to its benefit versus risk being analysed. All this raises more general questions about how drug companies market medicines in which they have invested millions. Drug companies can be guilty of hyping so-called "breakthroughs". Health journalists are constantly bombarded with releases talking up drugs that are still at the testing stage. How we report these claims poses a dilemma. Is the timing of them related to some share-price issue for the drug company? Are they trying to see off competition from a rival? Is this genuinely a medical milestone? But patients out there struggling to cope with illness are desperate for new hope. Journalists must wrestle with their own suspicions, on one hand, and also the fear of downplaying the significance of the drug on the other. The chances are some or all of the claim is actually correct and it will help patients. Irish Independent 
