medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    June 23 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/illegal-online-pharmacies-sell-fake-drugs-26457615.html }
Up to 62pc of medicines purchased over the internet are either fake or substandard, a new report has warned. Included in the suspect batches are medicines to treat conditions such as cardiovascular and respiratory disease, neurological disorders, and mental health conditions. The findings are contained in the report of the European Alliance For Access To Safe Medicines (EAASM). Purchasing medicines over the internet in Ireland is illegal, but thousands of people still buy from online pharmacies. The report, based on an analysis of more than 100 online pharmacies, examined the medicines which were delivered without need of prescription. It revealed: - 95.6pc of online pharmacies researched are operating illegally. - 94pc of websites do not have a named, verifiable pharmacist. - Over 90pc of websites supply prescription-only medicines without a prescription. - 86pc of online 'pharmacy approval' stamps are fake. - There is a three in five chance of receiving a fake or substandard medicine if you purchase online. - Only 38pc of the medicines received were found to be genuine, branded medicines, 16pc of these were illegal non-EU imports (genuine products, imported into the EU illegally from a non-EU country), and 33pc did not have patient information leaflets. This is illegal and potentially dangerous to consumers' health. The report recommends that popular search engines, such as Google, Yahoo and MSN, should remove web pages advertising counterfeit medicines. It points out that this has already proved successful in preventing people accessing child pornography websites, so surely similar success can be achieved with combating illegal online pharmacies. It emerged recently that nearly 200,000 illegally imported tablets and capsules, including anabolic steroids, anti-impotence drugs and weight-loss products, were seized here by the watchdog Irish Medicines Board (IMB) last year. The breakdown went as follows: 88,279 tablets, 106,443 capsules, 22.5 litres of liquids and 40kg of creams, many of which were purchased over the internet. 
