medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan  and Fiona Ellis 
    September 20 2011 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/warning-to-parents-over-child-cold-medicines-26773586.html }
THE country's drugs watchdog has advised parents not to give over-the-counter cough and cold medicines to younger children -- because they don't work. There was no strong evidence that the medicines worked on children under the age of six, the Irish Medicines Board (IMB) said yesterday. And there have been some reports of side-effects -- such as allergic reactions and drowsiness -- linked to their use in younger children. Dr Joan Gilvarry, director of human medicines at the IMB, said coughs and colds in young children tended to clear up in a few days. "Using simple measures such as plenty of fluids and rest to ease the symptoms are likely to be effective, but paracetamol and ibuprofen can be used to assist in reducing the temperature if needed," Dr Gilvarry said. She also said honey and lemon could assist and soothe the symptoms. However, she did not recommend homeopathic medicines as there were none currently licensed here for cold and cough treatment. "If your child is not getting better you should consult with your doctor or pharmacist." She said that in the case of children over six, cough and cold medicines had been proved to be effective. "Children over six are bigger, have a different metabolism, the risk of side effects is reduced and the data available indicates that cough and cold medicines can be effective in this age group," she said. The IMB said that people who had given these products to children under six in the past should not be concerned. Dr Gilvarry said parents should avoid giving products to younger children which contain antihistamines, antitussives, expectorants and decongestants. Products affected include, amongst others, Benylin's products for coughs and colds, Lemsip cough and decongestant products, Robitussin Plus and cough solutions, Actifed Syrup and Sudafed Nasal spray. Calpol and Nurofen for Children are pain relief medicines and not cough or cold medicines. Irish Independent 
