medicine
{ GRAINNE CUNNINGHAM 
    August 23 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/complaints-up-as-more-drugs-found-faulty-board-reveals-26178240.html }
MORE than 60 complaints of faulty medicines, four relating to major defects, were made to the Irish Medicines Board last year the highest ever number of complaints. A total of 64 reports of quality defects were made by health professionals to the board which monitors medicine safety and decides whether drugs can be placed on the market. Four of the complaints related to major defects and resulted in batch recalls, according to the board's annual report. These four involved drugs for injection which failed stability testing and tablets which had ``an extensive problem of colour bleeding in the coating'', the report states. DANGEROUS LABELS The other two major defects related to incorrect label texts and resulted in a caution-in-use letter. Eight of the complaints were found to be unjustified and, in one other case, it was not possible to determine the origin of the defect. More than half of the reports came from community pharmacists and the remainder from doctors and members of the community. Also in 1997, the board recalled 43 medicinal products for human use. Almost a quarter of the recalls were due to packaging errors (11), eight were due to stability problems and four of the recalls were precautionary due to possible safety risks. Two products were withdrawn due to safety risks. Drugs were also recalled because they failed to comply with specification or had changed from over the counter to prescription status. The IMB recalled 33 veterinary medicinal products, mainly due to a lack of sterility assurance. In its annual report, the board also drew attention to the fact that ``several potentially useful and important drugs are being lost'' due to regulations on the availability of active substances used in veterinary medicines and the commercial limitations of a small market size like Ireland. CONCERN ``This is a serious concern which has obvious animal welfare and public health implications,'' the report states. IMB staff members are working with representatives from the Department of Agriculture, veterinary organisations, and colleagues from overseas authorities to identify gaps and to take steps to improve the situation. During the year, the IMB issued 676 new medicinal product authorisations indicating the quality, safety and efficacy of the product has been examined and the likely benefits outweigh the possible risks. The board also authorised 19 new chemical identities and granted permissions to conduct 243 clinical trials and 201 permissions to amend clinical trials.  The principal functions of the Irish Medicines Board are the licensing of the manufacture, preparation, importation, distribution and sale of medicinal products. 
