medicine
{  
    June 17 2010 04:26 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/irish-news/law-planned-to-cut-medicines-bill-26660476.html }
Plans to make pharmacists legally obliged to substitute branded medicines with cheaper, generic drugs have been unveiled. Health Minister Mary Harney revealed a new system of generic substitution and reference pricing, which could be law by next year, will cut the price of medical bills for patients and the State. The Consumer's Association of Ireland said the proposal was a long-awaited step forward. "This really is very positive, for so many years so many people have been calling for this," said Dermott Jewell, chief executive. "This will, without a doubt, save a lot of people a lot of money that they could not afford up to now on very expensive medicines." Less than one in five prescribed drugs are generic in Ireland, compared to four in five in the UK. Generic substitution will allow pharmacists to dispense a cheaper version of a specific brand prescribed. A price will be set for replacement medicines, with patients paying the difference if they want the brand make unless the generic drug is prohibited for clinical reasons. Experts said substitute drugs have the same active ingredients and are made to the same standard as original medicines, although not not every brand-name has a generic version. Health chiefs revealed the taxpayer will also make huge savings on pharmaceutical expenditure. A study based on the top 100 medicines by expenditure, which had a generic product available, revealed almost 78 million euro could have been saved last year. It also showed the Health Service Executive (HSE) paid 1.9 billion euro for approximately 65 million prescriptions in 2008 - with that figure expected to soar to 2.4 billion euro by 2021 as the population increases and ages. Ms Harney said over the next five years a number of high volume medicines are expected to come off patent. "These reforms will ensure that lower prices are paid for these medicines resulting in significant savings for taxpayers and patients," she added. The Irish Pharmacy Union, which represents 1,600 pharmacists, welcomed the legislation which members have been calling for for years, but raised concerns over reference pricing and jobs in the sector. It claimed some European governments have fixed prices so low that pharmaceutical companies have stopped making or supplying generic medicines. PA Media 
