medicine
{ Susan Jane White 
    October 22 2014 08:06 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/food-pharmacy-using-food-as-your-own-medicine-30683969.html }
MD Mark Hyman doesn't believe in disease. He says diseases don't exist; that they are merely downstream effects from something that's going on upstream.  As a physician of functional medicine, Hyman thinks everything else is merely dysfunctional medicine. What's the point of servicing symptoms, when you ignore the brute causing them? Like treating obesity, but not sugar addiction? Treating migraines, but not mineral imbalance? Hyman wants a paradigm shift in medicine from treating symptoms, to treating systems. Is high cholesterol a Lipitor deficiency? For that matter, is a waning libido the result of too little Viagra? "These are not drug deficiencies. These are basic biological imbalances - disturbances in our body's patterns that give rise to what we call disease," he says. This may help explain why so many of us in the West are sick with recurrent illnesses. This is short-term medicine. I'm not dismissing short-term medicine - it plays an integral role in the management of pain. But it reminds me of a two-faced friend that appears sweet and caring, but actually couldn't give a dungpot what happens to you in the end. So what does long-term medicine look like? Progressive doctors prefer a sort of 'personalised' medicine - navigating the patient's unique imbalances in the body, with respect to lifestyle, diet and DNA. Erm, isn't this something that has been practised for years? Or did we just forget how to employ such basic techniques as soon as Big Pharma came cantering in on its shiny white unicorn? In Hyman's clinic, nutrition forms the basis of recovery. Leading neurologist, David Perlmutter, builds on this: "There are 6.5 million children in America carrying a diagnosis of ADHD. Two-thirds of them are receiving mind-altering medications, the long-term consequences of which we do not understand. Yet we fully understand that dietary choices have a huge role to play in how the brain works." Food is at the centre of everything we do. We all know that eating poorly can neuter our body's mojo. But fighting depression with a fork? Eating our way to lower cholesterol? I like the sound of that. We've come up with a nutrient-rich cookie recipe to help tame that bad-tempered sweet tooth and smuggle some goodness into your lunchbox. It won't solve heart disease, it will help flick junk food off the radar. If health is our wealth, let's eat ourselves rich. Makes 16. You will need: 2 large blackened bananas, mashed 85g (3oz) regular oats 45g (1¾oz) grated carrot 50g (2oz) raisins 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon cinnamon Some zest from 1 unwaxed orange Preheat your oven to 180°C, 350°F, Gas 4. You'll need 2 large trays lined with baking parchment. Beat the mashed bananas, the oats, the grated carrot, the raisins, the baking powder, the cinnamon and the orange zest together with a fork and lots of muscle.  Take a tablespoon of mixture, roll it into a ball between your palms, and then gently flatten the top and bottom. Arrange on parchment-lined baking trays and cook for 12 minutes, or for a little longer if the cookies are big. Let them cool for 30 minutes on a wire rack before packing into pockets. www.susanjanewhite.com Sunday Independent 
