medicine
{ Dr Nina Byrnes 
    May 17 2014 07:10 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/substitute-generic-drugs-are-safe-and-will-save-you-some-money-30281836.html }
I went to my local pharmacy recently to collect my usual script and I found that a number of my medicines had changed. My pharmacist explained to me that I had been given the generic brand of my blood pressure and stomach tablet. I'm worried that these may not work as well as the original drugs. Should I be concerned? THERE ARE many people who have noticed a similar change in their medication in recent months. This is due to the fact that a law passed by the government allows pharmacies to substitute generic drugs on certain prescriptions. Previously if your doctor had prescribed a branded drug the pharmacy had to dispense that exact drug. Now if there is a cheaper generic drug available they can dispense this instead. The aim of this policy is to reduce the overall cost of medication both to the consumer and the government. A generic drug is just another version of a branded drug. Generic drugs must meet the same safety and quality standards and have the same effect as a branded drug. In other words you should receive the same result from a generic drug, but it should cost less. Generic drugs may be a different colour or shape than a branded drug, but this does not mean that they act differently. The key active ingredient is the same. An analogy I often use is to think of the many ways we can prepare eggs. They may be scrambled, poached, boiled or fried. They may look and taste different, but in the body they provide the same nutrition and act the same way. Generic drugs are simply the active component of a branded medicine dressed in a different way. People are often concerned that because generic drugs are cheaper, they may not be of the same quality as branded drugs. This isn't true. The reason generic drugs are cheaper is that they cost less to produce than branded drugs. When a drug company brings a new drug onto the market, it has invested a lot of time and money in research, production and marketing of this product. New drugs are granted a patent which gives the pharmaceutical company exclusive rights to sell the drug while this is in place. As the patent of a particular drug comes to an end, other companies can apply to produce and market a generic version of these drugs. These companies don't have the same research and start-up costs to produce the drug and therefore they can sell it at a cheaper rate. This saving should be passed onto the consumer resulting in savings all around. However, generic drugs are subject to rigorous scientific studies to prove that their drug is as effective and safe as the original branded product. Generic drugs are not new. They have been around for a long time. Paracetamol is a drug we are all very familiar with. Some well-known brands include Panadol, Paralink, and Calpol. Most people would consider all these brands reliable and effective, and wouldn't have any problem switching among them. Generic antibiotics are also commonly prescribed. The Irish Medicines Board is the regulatory body for the prescription of medicines in Ireland (much like the FDA in the USA) and they must approve all drugs before they are licensed for sale in this country. They also supervise the safety of drugs once they have been licensed. So you can be confident that if your drugs are prescribed by a doctor here and you buy them in an Irish pharmacy, your generic medicine is as safe and effective as the branded product. It is important to stress that drugs bought over the internet are not subject to the same licensing regulations and therefore there is no guarantee that the drug you buy in any way resembles or acts like the branded drug bought in Ireland. There is a list of generic drug substitutions that are allowed under Irish law and this can be viewed at: www.imb.ie/EN/Human-Medicines/ Generic-and-Interchangeable-Medicines.aspx. There is also another government scheme called the Medicines Management scheme. This scheme has reviewed some of the more commonly prescribed drugs for blood pressure, acid reflux, cholesterol treatment, and depression and anxiety. It has compiled a list of medicines which have been shown to be effective in clinical studies, but which also provide a cost effective choice to the consumer and government. It encourages doctors to consider these drugs when starting new prescriptions for patients and aims to help reduce the spending on drugs by €20m. As the HSE drug budget exceeded €1.7bn in 2012, these savings could go a long way towards helping protect frontline services in our health system. So the answer to your query is quite simple. Your generic drugs are a safe equivalent substitute for you and you shouldn't be concerned. These changes will go towards helping save money in our health system and the only change you should notice, if you are buying your medicine, is more cash in your pocket. Health & Living 
