medicine
{  
    June 02 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/half-of-elderly-are-on-wrong-drugs-26450934.html }
Large numbers of elderly patients may be on medicines they do not need. They may also be taking the wrong dose of medicine for their medical condition. That's the warning from a recent study which was presented to the Irish College of General Practitioners, the body representing family doctors. Dr Elaine Walsh, a Cork GP, revealed that an examination of one doctor's practice in the south east showed that, following a medicines review, as many as 54pc of older patients were on inappropriate medications. It followed a re-check of 50 elderly patients, where it was found that nearly one-third were also taking the wrong dosages. Dr Walsh pointed out that the consequences of being on too many tablets can be serious for elderly people. They can end up feeling unwell or be at a greater chance of being admitted to hospital if they are taking several, or needless, medicines. Remarkably, the 10-minute review of each of the patients led to a reduction in the average number of medications they were taking. Doctor's orders Doctors even decided to stop medication in as many as 70pc of the cases. The study should act as a signal to other GPs to do a medication review with their elderly patients, she advised. The reviews were welcomed by the patients involved and nearly all said they would like a similar check in the future. The advice is to never stop taking any medication before consulting with your GP first but if you feel it would be worth approaching your doctor for a review, prepare in advance. Make a list of all the medicines you are taking, saying how much you take and when you take them. Think about your questions, concerns and suggestions and write them down. Medicine doesn't just mean tablets -- include any vitamins, herbal products or other supplements from the pharmacy, health shop or supermarket you are taking. Also, tell the doctor about any over-the-counter medicines you are using, such as painkillers or cough syrup, liquid medicines or tonics. Don't forget to include lotions, creams and ointments, inhalers or other devices. Questions to ask include: l Could another medicine do a better job, with less risk of side effects? l What if I stopped taking it, or took a lower dose? Talk to your GP as soon as possible if you have taken too much of any medicine, develop a serious reaction or feel your health is getting worse. 
