medicine
{ Joy Orpen 
    November 09 2008 04:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/two-sides-of-the-divide-26490943.html }
A terrifying escape from behind the Iron Curtain is just one of the many adventures that have made conventional and alternative practicioner Dr Andrea Wilhelm who she is, writes Joy Orpen This tall and elegant blonde is an important player in Dublin's most holistic health centre to date. Not only is Andrea Wilhelm a doctor of conventional medicine, she is also something of an expert in a whole range of complementary therapies. Yet, the genesis of what she would become has its origins decades ago, in Bulgaria, when her grandmother practised as a healer. "We lived with her for a few years as my parents were studying. She was pretty and fun, and taught us to play the piano and to dance," Andrea recalls. Andrea says herbal treatments were readily available and commonly used in Bulgaria. Nonetheless, her initial ambition was to study conventional medicine rather than herbalism. "I had wanted to become a doctor since I was five," she says. "I had a paediatrician who I loved, and I really liked the smell of medicine. Most people don't enjoy that particular hospital aroma, the smell of disinfectant. But I loved it." When she was a little older, Andrea's film-making parents moved the family to East Berlin, and in time, Andrea did study medicine. But then events in the country started to take an ominous turn. "In 1982 I was in my fourth year at medical school when our government decided who would become a doctor, and where they would work. They said I should become a hygiene specialist in the northern part of the German Democratic Republic [GDR, formerly East Germany]," Andrea remembers. Andrea had her own ideas about how she wanted to spend the rest of her life, and being dictated to by the regime was not high on her list. "I wanted to do general medicine and, in addition, alternative medicine," she says. As a consequence of the government's decision, she decided to escape from the country with her sister, who was also angry at the situation. Being dictated to by the government proved to be a turning point, but it was not the sole reason Andrea chose to flee: she found life in East Germany intolerable. "No one could understand what it felt like unless you experienced it," she says. "It was another world altogether. The worst thing was that you were not allowed to say what you were thinking and you were observed all the time." So, Andrea and her sister plotted their escapes. Using fake passports, they managed to get to the former Yugoslavia. They told no one, not even their mother, of their plans; it was just too dangerous. During the trip, they made their daring move. "We got off the train and went to the West German embassy in Yugoslavia, and they gave us 24-hour passes," says Andrea. She vividly remembers how terrified she and her sister were for themselves, and for their immediate family. "We didn't know how quickly the Stasi [secret police] would find out we had gone, or how long it would take them to inform the police in Yugoslavia," she recalls. If the Yugoslav police had arrested the sisters and sent them back to the GDR, they would have been imprisoned in incredibly difficult conditions, while their family would, in all probability, have been victimised by having their careers blocked. "It would have meant political prison in Bautzen in the south. Like every political prison in these socialist countries, it was really awful," Andrea says. It was a terrifying time, but it was also an era when desperate times required desperate measures. In the end the young women found a way to contact their mother, who made the decision to take their younger brother, and flee to Bulgaria. Some time later, their father also jumped ship while on an overseas film shoot. So, eventually, the whole family managed to regroup in West Germany. In 1985 Andrea met and married a West German man. Then, in 1989, the regime in the GDR was defeated politically and the Berlin Wall came toppling down. "We didn't believe this could ever happen," says Andrea. "I was in hospital with complications, during my first pregnancy. So I was just lying there in my bed crying tears of pure joy." After leaving East Berlin, Andrea continued her medical studies, and after qualifying continued her education. She says: "I knew a lot of healers, so I learned a lot of alternatives ways of treating people -- with my hands and with herbs. I learned about osteopathy, applied kinesiology, acupuncture, homeopathy and so on." Eventually Andrea had her own medical practice in Munich, the university town where she had completed her studies. "While the emphasis was on alternative treatments, I was, of course, using antibiotics where necessary and other orthodox stuff," she says. Andrea then got interested in rejuvenation treatments. She employs two main methods for helping patients look younger: 'fillers' to smooth the lines and wrinkles, and 'electrical needling', a proceedure she says is really acupuncture for cosmetic purposes. But Andrea warns that beauty is not just skin deep. She says real beauty comes from within, and therefore diet, a healthy bowel and exercise are vital. "Everything is possible with a balanced diet, good nutrients and being active," she maintains. All the knowledge that Andrea has accumulated over the years certainly works for her. This mother of two grown-up children is pencil-slim, with lovely, wrinkle-free skin, and shiny blonde hair. She admits to being in her late 40s, but looks a good decade younger. The good news is that what Andrea has learned is available to anyone who takes the trouble to cross the threshold of the Sante Medispa, which recently opened in central Dublin. Here Andrea has forged business ties with Dermot O'Connor, a practitioner of Chinese medicine who wrote about his battle with multiple sclerosis in The Healing Code. The Medispa is, as its name suggests, a place to go to have the whole body, the mind and emotions healed. There is a walk-in surgery -- medical consultations are €65 -- as well as yoga, massage, Botox, nutrition analysis and advice, and acupuncture. Andrea says: "It was Dermot's idea to combine orthodox medicine with traditional Chinese medicine. I met him through a friend when he was looking for someone with a background in holistic medicine to work with him at the Medispa." Well, he certainly found someone who fits the bill in Andrea. Sante Medispa is at 133 Lower Baggot St, D2, tel: (01) 631-3758, and the Clarion Hotel, Excise Walk, IFSC, D1, tel: (01) 433-8852, or see www.sante.ie 
