medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    May 29 2007 11:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/poison-proof-your-home-26448388.html }
Around 4,000 children are accidentally poisoned every year. The problem has been highlighted by Darragh O'Loughlin, a Galway pharmacist who is chairman of the Irish Pharmaceutical Unions's Community Pharmacy Committee. He also pointed out how the National Poisons Information Centre in Beaumont Hospital reported that 70pc of calls it receives relate to medicines. This, he points out, underlines the risk posed by unused medicines, many of which are kept in unsecured locations in people’s homes. He advises people to dispose of any unwanted medicines they have in their homes, “in particular, paracetamol, ibuprofen or aspirin are common causes of accidental poisoning in children. “Even though these medicines can be obtained without a doctor’s prescription, they are still very dangerous if taken incorrectly,” he warns. Another case of accident poisoning in a child has been revealed by doctors in St James's Hospital in Dublin. A&E consultant Dr Conor Deasy and colleagues reported on the case of an 18-month-old girl who was brought to hospital after swallowing a mouthful of isoparaffin, which was being used to clean equipment in a beauty salon. The product had been stored in a bottle of mineral water and was unwittingly given to the little girl by her unfortunate grandmother. The child de veloped breathing problems and abscesses on her lungs. “The child took a drink and immediately became distressed, coughing and vomiting and became cyanosed (skin turns blue),” they wrote in the Irish Medical Journal. The doctors emphasised that accidental poisoning is a significant cause of death and illness in early childhood and highlighted two kinds of preventative approaches to childhood poisoning: educational and environmental. “Educational initiatives, for example ‘Mr Yuk’ stickers placed on potentially poisonous substances, are to be encouraged,” they said “An example of an environmental approach would include the use of child-resistant containers.” They stressed that “parents and minders must keep poisons locked out of the reach of children.” How to prevent child poisoningsEnsure all medicines – including herbal medicines and vitamin tablets – cleaning products, and chemicals are locked away, out of sight, and out of reach of children.
Do not store medicines, cleaning products, or chemicals near food.
Keep all chemicals in their original containers, and never put medicines or chemicals, such as weed killer, in soft drinks bottles .
Do not leave old medicines lying around – take them to your local pharmacist to dispose of safely .
Keep cigarettes and tobacco out of the reach of children and avoid smoking in front of children .
Small batteries, such as those that are often used for television remote controls, can be easily swallowed .
Whenever possible, always buy medicines that have child resistant containers
Helpline for National Poisons Information Centre, Dublin 9 (01) 837 9966 (01)809 2568 
