medicine
{ Katherine Donnelly 
    July 25 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/extra-70-medicine-places-a-relief-for-students-26376401.html }
THE frenzied chase for a place on a medicine course has eased slightly this year. An extra 70 places opening up on medicine degree courses this autumn has succeeded in outstripping growing demand for a career as a doctor. Last year, there were 7.4 applicants for each of the 305 undergraduate places in medicine across five third-level colleges. This year, the average number of students pursuing each of the 375 places has dropped to 6.4, according to the CAO.Reduced pressure for a place in medical school should bring some easing in the points cut off bringing partial relief to students. Rising demand had led to an inexorable rise in the points threshold for medicine, hitting the maximum 600 in one college last year. According to the CAO figures, which include late and "change-of-mind" applications, the total number of college applicants in 2006 is 62,833, down from 63,316 in 2005, but up from 59,485 in the spring. The figures show a surge in interest in almost all disciplines, with an above average 10pc rise in first preferences for administration and business degree courses, bringing some recovery after a downturn in applications. The areas showing a slight decline in the number of applicants since the spring are veterinary medicine, dentistry and physiotherapy, some of whom may have taken a late decision to switch to medicine. The February 1 announcement of the extra 70 undergraduate places in medicine coincided with the initial deadline for CAO applications, and may have influenced some later change-of-mind applications. In the face of a fall in the school-leaving population and the consequent drop in CAO applicant numbers, the demand for a place in medicine is up about 7pc in two years, from 2,256 first preference applications in 2004 to 2,401 now. The extra undergraduate places is the first phase of a government package to increase doctor supply and take some of the pain out of the points race. Over the next four years, the number of undergraduate places will more than double to 725, while for the first time, graduate-entry programes are being rolled out this year. Both the Royal College of Surgeons and UCD have announced a new graduate medical school for this autumn, while TCD, NUI Galway, UCD and the University of Limerick have announced plans to start a new graduate entry programme. 
