medicine
{  
    August 25 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-top-points-dont-always-make-a-good-doctor-26371505.html }
Despite improvements in working hours, many young doctors are still shocked by the harsh realities of hospital life. They may have got straight As in the Leaving, but what they really need is the right temperament, good interpersonal skills and, above all, stamina In a previous existence, part of Dr Mick Molloy's job was telling medical students the ugly truth about their chosen profession. He liked to compare it to an all-night party - flat-out action with little likelihood of sleep. Often, they didn't believe him. Strangely, he found that many medical students didn't fully understand the demanding nature of the job which lay ahead of them. "I used to teach first-year classes in UCD. I would ask how many of them had ever stayed up all night at a party. One or two of them would say 'yeah I did, at a party this summer, I didn't get to bed until nine in the morning and I was shattered'. "And I would tell them, can you then imagine staying up all night and, instead of going to bed at nine in the morning, going in to do a clinic, doing tests, and dealing with people all day. And can you imagine doing that over an entire weekend? "Their response would be that nobody would do that, it was inhuman. And you'd say, well, that actually happensevery second weekend in some hospitals." Working hours have since improved, but the harsh reality of life in a busy hospital still comes as a shock to some young doctors. "The difficulty arises when medicine has been glorified as a career and people come out of college to find that the working life is not what they expected it to be. "It's very hard to tell a 17-year-old that getting into university to study medicine is a great achievement, but that in six years' time, they'll be working for 36 hours without a break. Some people drop out during their first year working. They will say, 'I love medicine but I didn't think they did these kind of shifts any more'." Dr Molloy, a former president of the Irish Medical Organisation, says that in his experience many medical students genuinely don't know what they are letting themselves in for. But still the Leaving Cert points battle continues; and medicine, dentistry and pharmacy continue to be among the most sought-after university courses - and among the hardest to get into. The inordinately high number of points needed for medicine means only the very highest academic achievers are accepted. It's a simple matter of supply and demand. In medicine, the number of places is very limited. In 1970, the Government capped that number at 305 per year. There wasn't enough money in the state coffers to pay for any more. This year, for the first time, an extra 70 places have been made available. And the plan is to increase the annual intake to 725 over the next four years. Some months ago, Education Minister Mary Hanafin acknowledged: "The pressure on students who wish to study medicine to achieve an almost perfect Leaving Cert has become almost unbearable." From 2008, a significant change is proposed which will lessen that pressure somewhat. Students applying for these courses won't necessarily need that almost perfect result. If they get at least 450 points, they will then do a "suitability test" to determine who gets those precious college places. The exact nature of the test isn't yet known. But it is likely to be similar to a system used in Australia, where three factors are taken into account when deciding who is accepted. Places here might be allocated by a combination of Leaving Cert points; the results of a written test focusing on reasoning and communication skills; and finally, an interview. Doctors and academics agree that casting a wider net will bring fresh blood into the system. It is accepted that, over the years, many good potential doctors have been lost because of the exclusive concentration on very high points. On the other hand, just because somebody gets straight As doesn't mean they have the temperament to be a doctor. Dr Molloy says huge points don't necessarily make good doctors - or bad ones. "You don't really know until they're out there doing the job. Somebody who gets a good honours Leaving Cert is more than capable of doing the medical course. The question then is whether the person really wants to do it, and whether they can work in a hospital or GP environment afterwards." In recent years, university medicine courses have started putting increased emphasis on interpersonal skills. Clearly, it is vital that all doctors have the best possible medical skills. But their job also involves relating to often vulnerable and fearful patients and their relatives. The pompous and aloof consultant is still alive and well, but every effort is being made to weed him out of the system. Mary McCaffrey, president of the Irish Hospital Consultants Association, says: "Medicine is a very demanding course and obviously you need people with a certain level of academic ability. But clearly you also need people who are good communicators and are suited to the job." "Some people are inherently good communicators and some aren't. And unfortunately a lot of junior doctors who come and work with us haven't acquired that skill at undergraduate level. We see it all the time," says Dr McCaffrey. "It just hits you in the face when a good trainee comes into your department. The very fact that the minister is talking about a suitability test is a good thing." TCD Professor Shaun McCann says it is vital to dispel any notion that the number of medical students in Ireland is determined by the colleges. "Everybody thinks that we put a limit on because we're big fatcat doctors and we want a closed shop - totally untrue! The number of places is determined by the Government." He argues that not all doctors necessarily require superb interpersonal skills. "Medicine is a highly varied career. You can be a doctor and work with animals 
