medicine
{ Anne-Marie Walsh and Ed Carty 
    February 22 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/crime-gangs-getting-rich-on-fake-medicine-26277090.html }
ORGANISED crime gangs in Ireland are filling their pockets in a lucrative fake medicine trade valued at over ?122m. A conference in Dublin yesterday Action against Counterfeit Medicine heard that up to 10pc of prescription drugs are counterfeit. The international trade, believed to flourish on the internet and in some instances when pharmacists trade overseas, is estimated to be worth ?35bn every year. Last night, the Irish Patients' Association urged the Government to take urgent action to clamp down on the potentially deadly illegal business. Association chairman Stephen McMahon said the human cost is "priceless". And the Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland urged the establishment of an EU database to share information about medicines. "Ireland has benefited greatly from the presence of the pharmaceutical industry and as a result the impact of counterfeit medicines on the Irish economy is substantial," said Stephen McMahon of the Irish Patients' Association. "We need to ensure co-operation between government, the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare professionals, the gardai, customs, distributors, patients' organisations, and the public. "Ultimately, we want to stamp out the illicit medicines trade which is both illegal and deadly." The patients group called for more research on the extent of counterfeit medicine in Ireland. It also urged the Government to set up an umbrella group composed of customs officials, the gardai and health agencies to tackle the problem. Five case of fake drugs were found in high street pharmacies in the UK in recent years. Mr McMahon said the internet was probably the biggest market place for counterfeit medicine. He added that the trade had also flourished in recent years because of more sophisticated counterfeiting technology. Often, the drugs are laundered through elaborate distribution networks. "Anyone who has email has seen the numerous spam messages sent offering good deals on Viagra," he said. "Our message to the public is 'Don't self prescribe and buy off the internet, know your medicine, its colour, texture, taste and shape and report any differences to your pharmacist." 
