medicine
{ Joy Orpen 
    July 06 2008 03:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/time-to-stop-and-smell-the-roses-26459911.html }
When it comes to illness, some people may be surprised to know that there is often more than one way a body may be healed. And while Western medicine is the most common form practised in Ireland, if it does not work for a particular individual, then an alternative method may need to be found. That was certainly the experience of one woman who found conventional medicine failed to sort out her ailment, while an ancient form of Indian medicine did the trick. Up until a few years ago, Eleanor Dawson was living life to the full. Based in Dun Laoghaire, she was immersed in bringing up three sons while her husband, Justin, taught Russian at Trinity College Dublin. Eleanor also taught music, played the flute, organised concerts and performed. She even helped start a primary school. But having met this capable woman, it is also clear that she does everything to the very best of her abilities -- and that, with so much on her plate, something was bound to give. In her case, it was her health. "I was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis in 2005," she says. "That's basically an inflammation of the colon (large intestine). In my case, it was not terribly serious, but, nonetheless, I felt utterly drained and desperately tired." Eleanor went to the doctor and was treated conventionally. "I was on anti-inflammatories and a steroid-based medication, but they didn't do much good." She also tried eliminating carbo-hydrates, including wheat, oats, rice and all grains, from her diet. "That was hard, as I'd been a vegetarian since my early 20s and my diet was pretty grain-based. So I ate fruit, vegetables and cheese and began eating fish again -- but it wasn't the answer," she says. Eleanor says cutting out carbs works well for some people with bowel problems, but her symptoms returned within three months. So, she was back to square one. Then, in 2006, while involved in a music project in Sligo, she began to feel awful. "The colitis flared up again and I ended up really exhausted," she recalls. Having done yoga for years, Eleanor was in tune with her physical self and she began to suspect her body was trying to tell her something that was bigger than the condition itself. So, when she heard about someone with the same condition who had got good results from Ayurvedic medicine, she decided to give it a go. Ayurveda means "knowledge of life": its underlying philosophy is that people should be empowered to heal themselves. It does this by looking at each sufferer as unique and treating them holistically. It's a system that originated in India more than 2,000 years ago and is now recognised by the World Health Organisation. So Eleanor went to see Dr Donn Brennan who, although qualified in Western medicine, chooses to practise Ayurvedic medicine. Eleanor explains that within this discipline there are three main principles -- or doshas --that are known by their Sanskrit names of vata (movement), pitta (heat) and kapha (weight). In very simple terms, if the doshas are out of balance then there is disharmony in the body and this can lead to illness. In Eleanor's case, Dr Brennan prescribed a slowing down of her lifestyle complemented by Ayurvedic herbal remedies, including massage. "Basically, he told me I was completely exhausted and that I was to rest for four hours during the day and to be in bed by 9pm. He told me I would have to be really serious about this," she says. He also gave Eleanor dietary advice as her digestive system was now extremely fragile. And, finally, the best part of his prescription was to "go and have fun". Eleanor was happy to oblige. So began a new regime of taking it easy and eating simple foods such as home-made soups, basmati rice, vegetables and mung beans (which are particularly easy to digest). She was advised to use spices that "cooled" the system such as cumin, coriander and tumeric, rather than "hot" spices such as chilli and ginger. Dr Brennan also prescribed pomegranate juice, which apparently helps heal the colon. Initially, Eleanor struggled with the new routine, particularly when it came to slowing down, but she knew she had little option if she wanted to get better. "I had to be strong. It was really hard to go upstairs in the afternoons when the kids were downstairs, but they were really good about it." Up to that point, even though she was chronically tired, Eleanor had been suffering from insomnia. But once she "accepted the tiredness", she found she could sleep deeply for a couple of hours in the afternoon and still get off to sleep at night. The new regime worked. "I began to regain my strength and, within three weeks, some of the symptoms such as diarrhoea were gone," says a clearly relieved Eleanor. She firmly believes her frenetic lifestyle had been the catalyst for her illness and that alternative medicine was the answer. "I think stress caused my illness; dashing around, chasing my tail," she says. Eleanor had been told that it would take up to two years for a full recovery. "The first year is about the physical recovery and the second year is about consolidating it," she says. However, about 10 months after she began her treatment Eleanor faced the acid test when she had a relapse. "At the outset, Dr Brennan told me: 'If you do what I tell you now, then the next time it flares up, it will only take a couple of days [to recover].' And he was right, the attack only lasted a short while." Today, Eleanor looks the picture of good health. "What's good about Ayurvedic medicine is that it treats you like an individual. I'm much stronger now. I have much more energy and I have learned a lot about listening to my body. It's a lot to do with knowing your limitations and knowing when to say: 'I've had enough.'" She now follows a diet that is right for her. She does yoga daily, she teaches the flute from home and takes care of her family. There is a new equilibrium to her life and she now knows how to pace herself; how to conserve her energy. "I feel calmer, more in balance and I am now able to stand back and be more objective." For more information, tel: (01) 284-5742, or see www.ayurveda.ie 
