medicine
{  
    April 29 2008 08:01 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/medical-cards-a-bitter-pill-27559312.html }
The seven month old row between pharmacists and the HSE centres on a plan to implement a major reduction in payment to pharmacists who operate the community drugs schemes. According to the Irish Pharmacy Union (IPU), hundreds of chemists stand to have their incomes slashed by up to 30%, forcing many of them out of business.Their anger is exacerbated by the fact that the HSE h The seven month old row between pharmacists and the HSE centres on a plan to implement a major reduction in payment to pharmacists who operate the community drugs schemes. According to the Irish Pharmacy Union (IPU), hundreds of chemists stand to have their incomes slashed by up to 30%, forcing many of them out of business. Their anger is exacerbated by the fact that the HSE has so far refused to enter negotiations with the IPU on what the union maintains is a clear case of breach of contract. For their part, the HSE maintains that the threats by pharmacists to withdraw from the community drugs schemes are unjustified. More pointedly, it claims the alarm is being generated as part of efforts to keep the price of medicines to patients and the HSE 'artificially high'. And even the true strength of the pharmacists revolt is doubted by the HSE, which claims that of the 1600 chemists in the country, only two have so far formally notified that they intend to withdraw from the scheme.  Scathing Conan Burke, a pharmacist with shops in Strandhill and Sligo town, is one of 26 chemists in County Sligo. He says that all but 'a very exceptional minority' of his colleagues intend to withdraw from the scheme, and he is scathing in his criticism of the HSE. “Many pharmacists have come to the conclusion that they have no option but to terminate their contracts with the HSE, for the provision of medicines to patients on the Community Drugs Schemes. It is a decision that was not taken lightly. I felt that if I did not do this, I would simply go out of business and I would not be here to provide a pharmacy service to the people of Strandhill. "The HSE is reducing its payments to me on the schemes by 30% without any negotiation. By reducing payments without agreement, the HSE has breached my contract". he claims. He is adamant that pharmacists do not want to withdraw from the scheme and are reluctant to do anything which might cause discomfort for their patients. 'We do not want to do this -- it's the last thing we want to do. All we are asking for is for the HSE to honour our contracts and to sit down and negotiate any changes to our contract with our Union. We are not asking for more money, just the right to be represented by our Union and fair play", he maintains. Pharmacists understand the HSE has to contain the costs of medicines for the State, and that belts have to be tightened, Mr. Burke acknowledges. " We have ways not just to contain the cost of medicines for the State, but to also reduce the price of medicines to private patients. For example, through the use of cheaper generic medicines when it is safe to do so. This would reduce costs and would not have a negative impact on the pharmacy services and patient care. We have made lots of suggestions as to how money can be saved, but the HSE has ignored us", he adds.  Struggling On the contentious point raised by the HSE suggesting that the pharmacists' real issue is to maintain 'artificially high' medicine prices, Mr. Burke maintains that, far from the popular perception, many pharmacists are struggling for their very survival. "The figures produced by the HSE are gross figures. They don't take into account the fact that pharmacists have to pay for the drugs -- we don't get them for nothing. There are staff costs, administration costs, rents, rates, computer expenses, tax. None of that is reflected in those figures. "Pharmacists have a right to earn a living, and it's not a sin to make a profit. You can't make such a catastrophic reduction without drastic consequences, both for the industry as a whole and for individual pharmacists. "Lots of pharmacists have made huge investments in their businesses. Many are in serious debt with their banks, having to pay off huge loans which were taken out in the expectation of a guaranteed income. I know people who are in serious trouble financially", he says. 
