medicine
{  
    January 26 2009 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/check-uphow-long-is-it-safe-to-keep-medicine-26508849.html }
FOR as long as I can remember, my mum's medicine cabinet has been full to bursting with old bottles and tubes that she must have had for years and years. She says that they'll probably come in handy one day, but I'm sure most of that stuff must be unusable. Should I get her to throw it all away, and if she does, what essentials will she need to replace? This reminds me of a house I visited recently, where the medicine cabinet looked like a storage unit for unwanted medical waste. There were at least half-a- dozen bottles of pills inside -- some of them nearly empty, all of them out of date and in two of the bottles, the pills had turned brown and were crumbling away. This will probably sound slightly familiar to you. If not, then some of the other contents might -- there was an old tube of pile cream that looked nearly empty and a burst tube of steroid cream that had a funny-looking fungus growing over part of it. There were also several large bottles of medicine. One was nearly full of a red liquid and had a thick streak of dried, sugary fluid obscuring the label. Another bottle had settled out into two distinct layers -- which stayed as two distinct layers even after a good shaking. Finally, there was a pair of rather rusty nail scissors and an old tin half-full of slightly grubby sticking plasters. That sort of medicine cabinet is of no use to anyone. The whole lot might as well go in the bin. But it is surprising how many people keep hold of pills and potions long after they are needed. Your mum is clearly one of those people, but now is the time for her to delve into the medicine cabinet and give it a good clear out. Encourage her to throw out anything she can't identify or which is over six months old. Anything that belongs to an old or irregular visitor has to go and throw out anything that looks as if it has changed colour or consistency. When she's done, she should wipe out the medicine cabinet with some liquid antiseptic and restock it if needed. Apart from whatever prescription medicines your mum may need, she should include a simple painkiller, an indigestion remedy, a laxative and an anti-diarrhoeal medicine. She should also include calamine lotion, plus whatever sticking plasters and bandages she can use without tying herself up in knots! 
