medicine
{ CAROLINE BRENNAN 
    April 04 2012 10:55 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/lifestyle/medication-for-organ-transplant-patients-27650696.html }
As a result of the high success rate of kidney, heart, liver, and other organ transplantation, hundreds of thousands of people worldwide have been able to lead healthier lives. One problem is that the immune system also recognises the transplanted organ as a foreign body and will try to reject it. For this reason, you will be prescribed anti-rejection drugs, also called immunosuppressive agents, in an attempt to dampen down your body&#39;s natural immune response. The goal of these medications is to keep your transplanted kidney or other organ healthy. Therefore, even though you may experience certain side effects from these drugs, it is important that you take your medications as prescribed by your doctor. It is also important to discuss with your doctor or pharmacist any problems that you might be having with these medications. ADHERENCE AND REJECTION Unfortunately, failure to adhere to the medications as prescribed is an important cause of rejection and possible loss of the transplanted organ. To ensure that you take your drugs in the prescribed fashion, your pharmacist may be able to help, by dispensing your medicines in a blister pack which is separated into different administration times. This ensures that you take the correct medicine at the correct time and is very useful for complex drug regimes. Ask your local pharmacist for details. It is also important that you have a healthy diet and do not take any new medications prescribed by other doctors without first checking with your transplant doctor. This also applies to certain overthe-counter medicines so make sure if buying these that you inform your pharmacist. COMMON IMMUNOSUPPRESSIVE DRUGS You may be on a combination of anti-rejection drugs. By dampening down the immune system, all immunosuppressive drugs, while they keep your body from rejecting your transplanted organ, also come with certain side effects. Not everyone will have the same side effects, and some patients will experience only mild effects from these medications. Some commonly used types of drugs are described below. In Ireland anti-rejection drugs often fall under the High Tech Drugs Scheme. These medicines will generally only be prescribed or initiated by a hospital consultant. If you are prescribed a High Tech medicine, the hospital will ask you to indicate the community pharmacy from which you wish to obtain these medicines. It is a good idea to get all your medicines from the one pharmacy so that your community pharmacist will be in a position to monitor your overall drug therapy having regard to other medicines that you may also be taking. Often your bloods will be monitored whilst on these to ensure that various parameters are within normal ranges. You may also be prescribed steroid medications and it is important with these that they are taken as prescribed to help reduce the chance of your body rejecting your transplanted organ. As mentioned earlier, the immunosuppressive drugs that you might be on after your transplant may be highly varied and complex. Always take your medicines exactly as prescribed and discuss any potential problems or difficulties you encounter with them with your doctor or pharmacist. It is also important to take your medication exactly as prescribed, even when you are feeling well, and your pharmacist may be able to offer you various solutions to assist you with this. Many of these medicines are highly expensive so if you do not have a medical card your pharmacist will help you in applying for a drugs payment scheme card which will assist you and your family with the cost of your treatment. Ask your pharmacist for details. Remember that it is these medications that have improved your health, and that rejection can occur at any time, even long after the transplant. The best way to protect your transplanted organ is to understand everything about your medications and to adopt a healthy lifestyle. Never hesitate to ask questions and discuss your concerns with your transplant doctor, GP or local pharmacist. Working together with your healthcare team results in the best chances for a long-term and successful outcome. And finally if you are lucky enough to be in good health then please consider carrying an organ donor card. These can be picked up in many local pharmacies or GP surgeries. For more information about the above article please speak to a pharmacist in your local Sam Mccauley Chemist. 
