medicine
{ Amanda Phelan 
    November 22 2010 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/two-worlds-collide-26701767.html }
A woman in her seventies recovering from cancer, an eczema sufferer who says she's symptom-free, and a man who avoided an operation for prostate cancer. These are just some examples of people who say they've used complementary health methods alongside mainstream medicine with positive results. One woman even used acupuncture as an alternative to having her gallbladder removed. But despite demand and the growing number of holistic medical centres overseas, there are few doctors here officially using complementary techniques. And now tough new rules on registering and proving the efficacy of Chinese herbs is looming under an EU directive. When this kicks in all Chinese herbs will have to be registered, with proof required that they work. This will have a huge impact, as these treatments are widely used in all European countries, and there are concerns the policy will only lead to black market sales. Catriona McCormack suffered excruciating eczema through her childhood and early teens. Doctors prescribed steroid treatments, or applied cold tar packs to reduce the inflammation. None of it worked. "My childhood was difficult and painful because of visible debilitating eczema," says Ms McCormack, now in her thirties. It's hard to believe this woman, with her blooming complexion, ever had a skin complaint. Nightmare "It was a nightmare when I was a girl in my teens," she says. "My skin was red, itchy, cracked and raw. I'd have sleepless nights because of the itchiness and the pain because the skin was so broken and sore. I'd end up with my hands in the freezer to cool my skin.'' Ms McCormack turned to yoga, and says it helped her to clear up not only her eczema, but her asthma as well. She became such a convert that she trained as a teacher, and is now a popular instructor in the Dublin Holistic Centre. "Yoga changes things from the inside, and that shows on the outside -- it changed my life," she says simply. The Health Service Executive (HSE) acknowledges that therapies including acupuncture, naturopathy, homeopathy and yoga or Alexander technique are being used across Ireland, including within palliative care centres, but does not give official backing to them. "Doctors may recommend various complementary therapies in the context of overall care of patients, but the HSE has no plans at present to develop or fund such initiatives," says a spokeswoman. Studies show at least half of us use some form of complementary medicine to improve health. One survey revealed over 50pc of children were being given some form of complementary medicine, such as echinacea (thought to be good for colds) for illness. "More than half of the children surveyed had used some form of complementary or alternative medicine, usually without their pediatrician's knowledge," according to one report, published in the 'Irish Journal of Medical Science'. Yet the health authorities are still wary. The Department of Health and Children wants a more cohesive approach to govern alternative health practices. It has also run open days to encourage this mainly self-regulating billion-euro industry to come up with a set of common guidelines. Although alternative treatments are now standard practice in many countries -- like Spain, for example -- the shift is not always seamless. In England, while debate rages over government policy on complementary medicine, a homeopathic hospital in London is thriving. The Royal London Hospital of Integrated Medicine is now the largest public sector provider of integrated complementary medicine in Europe.  Convinced At home, many are convinced of its benefits, whatever the bureaucrats say. Peter Cazalet (70), from Limerick, was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2001. "I was told if I didn't have an operation to remove the tumour, I'd be dead," he recalls. Mr Cazalet was reluctant to undergo surgery, and turned to acupuncture, meditation, herbs and an improved diet. "I monitored things very carefully, and if they hadn't changed I was ready for the operation," he says. Mr Cazalet credits much of his recovery to acupuncturist Karen Costin, who runs a practice in Ranelagh, Dublin. "I go for regular check-ups, but now I'm all clear and enjoying life," he says. Betty Lynch (71), from Tipperary, used Ms Costin's services to help her get through intestinal cancer. Ms Lynch says she suffered terribly as she had an adverse reaction to the drugs and chemotherapy needed to help her recover from the cancer. "I was in my own private hell," she recalls. Her doctors at the Blackrock Clinic allowed Ms Costin to come into the hospital to administer acupuncture treatment. "It was a huge help, and I still see Karen once a week, although I'm clear of the cancer," says Ms Lynch, whose passion is leading a singing group. The choir raises money for charity, "and now I know what it is to sing for joy". But official attitudes are going backwards, not forwards, says Ms Costin, who practices the Five Elements, or Japanese-style, acupuncture. "Sadly, I think we're regressing," she says, adding that where once she was welcome in institutions such as maternity hospitals, this professional cordiality is now rare. "Ideally we treat in conjunction with western medicine, but there are a lot of dinosaurs out there." Dermot O'Connor, a former high-flying financial technology expert, agrees. "We know most modern killers, cancer, heart disease, and diabetes, are preventable through simple lifestyle choices around diet, exercise, and stress management," he says. "Yet our approach to these conditions is to channel our resources into pharmaceutical, chemical and surgical solutions."  Testament Mr O'Connor, author of 'The Immortality Code' and 'The Healing Code', is a living testament of his own beliefs. Diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis over 10 years ago, he used acupuncture and Chinese medicine to overcome his illness and later trained as a practitioner. "It's not that I think that Chinese medicine is good and Western medicine is bad," says Mr O'Connor, whose clients include former model Elle Macpherson. "I just think they can work together." Overseas, holistic-style medical centres are growing in line with demand. For example, in England the National Health Service (NHS) covers treatments such as homeopathy. Dr Peter Fisher, Clinical Director of the Royal London hospital for Integrated Medicine, sees this style of medical treatment as the future. "Integrated medicine brings together conventional medicine with safe and effective high-quality complementary medicine to achieve the best possible results for patients," he says. "We work by emphasising the importance of the doctor-patient relationship and the use of all appropriate (complementary and conventional) therapeutic approaches to achieve healing and optimal health." Here, while a number of doctors across the country are happy to say they'll use complementary practices as an alternative to the prescription pad and pills, they are not keen to admit this publicly. Why the reluctance? "Occasionally you get people with little training setting up a practice, and although this is in the minority, I think, sadly, a couple of cowboys can give the whole complementary field a bad name," says Mr O'Connor. But some doctors do say a more holistic approach is better for our health. "Prevention is still better than cure," says Dr Sam Van Eeden from the Arte Novi clinic in Malahide in north Dublin. For example, using a natural substance, he helped Brian Meyrick beat high cholesterol and avoid taking strong medication. "I did 10 treatments and it cleared me out and got me well, no side effects, and now I'm enjoying life," says Mr Meyrick. The course of treatment, administered by injection, wasn't cheap at €1,800, but it's worth every penny says the 65-year-old. "I worked for 40 years. I want to stick around and enjoy life and spend my few bob -- I'm fecked if I'll leave any of it behind." Dr Van Eeden treated Mr Meyrick using phosphatidylcholine, a natural product derived from soy. The treatment is given intravenously and focuses on removing plaque build-up that can cause stroke, heart attack or by-pass surgery.  Stress Some GPs are happy to refer patients to local complementary therapists as an alternative to prescribing drugs for complaints such as stress or anxiety. Hypnotherapist Wendy Quinn, from Sutton in Dublin, says she gets regular referrals from a nearby medical practice. "My local doctor is great -- she often looks for an alternative to reaching for the prescription pad, and sends patients to me for a range of complaints, from fear of flying to insomnia," she said. Dr Stephen Gascoigne, who has a practice in west Cork and in England, says there needs to be a reciprocity of open-mindedness between the two philosophies. "There's a significant amount of antipathy towards holistic medicine by conventional doctors," says Dr Gascoigne, an expert in Chinese medicine. "The main difficulty for conventional medics is philosophical -- how can these things work when they are based on a very different world view? "And so people descend into ridicule and dismissal." In the end, he says, the ones who miss out are the patients. Irish Independent 
