medicine
{ David Looby 
    November 02 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/asseels-family-feel-all-alone-as-costs-soar-38638725.html }
'We are all by ourselves.' New Ross boy Asseel Osman's father Mahad looks downcast and defeated as he responds to a question about where the family are at presently concerning getting assistance to meet the costs of cannabis oil medicine for the five-year-old Co Wexford boy. 'We don't get any money. He is our responsibility now. Nobody can help us. How many times has this been raised?' In 2016 Asseel, who suffers from cerebral palsy and has daily epileptic seizures, was the first person in Ireland to travel abroad to get treatment using cannabis oil. Some vials of the oil were imported, illegally, by his father to help with his spasms and the pain he was enduring. In 2017 Health Minister Simon Harris granted the first licence for medicinal cannabis for Cork girl Ava Twomey who suffers from a severe form of epilepsy after her mother Vera campaigned at the Dáil for assistance. To date around 25 to 30 licences have been granted. Supplies of the cannabis oil ran out for Asseel for almost a month in late August and his condition worsened. He returned to a living hell of no sleep, pain, muscle spasms, sores, chewed and cut gums, seizures and the inability to even sit upright. 'The last time I went (to Germany) was June. There was only four weeks when medicine ran out. I wasn't getting any help. There are up to 28 people who have gotten the licence. Maybe to them Asseel isn't an Irish citizen. It is so frustrating. If you see the children of another family who are getting the licence, Asseel's condition is much more serious. I don't know why.' Asseel's health improved dramatically after he got more cannabis oil in late September. 'My home was a hospital before this medicine. The German doctors told me "this child doesn't need too much medicine". Before he was prescribed too much medicine and he wasn't sleeping, was vomiting. People are saying now that they never saw him like this (so good). He is sleeping now. 'Before he couldn't because of the spasms and the brain damage. He has big problems with his brain. We had to give him some medicine to sleep but his body was rejecting it. He was grinding his teeth and having seizures. The Jack and Jill nurse has seen his improvement.' Mahad indicated that he has received more Dronibinol medicine, having received financial help from members of the Arab community in Germany, where he has relations, and in Ireland. 'I know my child. No father wants to see his child survive like that. Asseel doesn't get any help. I need help.' Lying sideways in his bed, Asseel is responsive and knows when someone arrives to visit him. His parents Mahad and Zara are always by his side, taking turns to care for him, while his brother Naif (4) loves interacting with Asseel. Mahad thanked Susan Breen, the New Ross Standard and everyone he has helped highlight Asseel's case. 'We feel many things are wrong. We feel something is different when it comes to us. It's not just Ireland, it's happening all over Europe. We are waiting many years and his spine is getting more and more curved. I'm an Irish citizen. Simon Harris doesn't know what's going on in this house.' Mahad has written to Taoiseach Leo Varadkar begging him for something to be done and was disappointed to receive a reply from one of his officials. He wells up, saying his son Naif will also face discrimination in life. 'If a disabled child faces discrimination, how do you think a healthy child with a good education will be treated. I'm afraid because I'm his father. I hope his future will be good.' Campaigner Susan Breen, who helped to set up the Facebook page Hope For Asseel, said: 'Dronibinol is extremely expensive, as is traveling to Germany for prescriptions so for the last month Asseel has been without his medicine. His Occupational Therapy and physio are no longer possible, Ireland 2019 - this is considered adequate healthcare for one of the most vulnerable children imaginable. Shame on all those blocking this legislation.' The Department of Health said it does not comment on individual cases. 'However we can confirm that no Ministerial Licence application for the prescribing of medical cannabis has been received in respect of Asseel Osman from his GP or consultant. It is important to note that the medical decision to prescribe or not prescribe any treatment, including cannabis treatment, for an individual patient, is strictly a decision for the treating clinician, in consultation with their patient. The Minister for Health has no role in this clinical decision-making process.' She said valid applications are processed promptly. 'The HSE has statutory responsibility for decisions on pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products under the community drug schemes. 'We must point out in the strongest possible terms that all patients in the Health Service are treated equally and with respect.' New Ross Standard 
