medicine
{  
    February 13 2009 10:37 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/lifestyle/cheque-issued-to-pharmacist-by-hse-following-inquiry-27562544.html }
A Manorhamilton pharmacist was issued with a cheque for €54,000 by the HSE after he had complained about the actions of a fellow chemist. Details of the disagreement emerged following release of a report last month of an enquiry after six years of attempts to bring the matter into the public arena. The HSE inquiry revealed that a County Cavan pharmacist was dispensing medicines to patients "from the boot of his car" after they were treated at his mother's GP clinic. John MacManus, of Belturbet, Co Cavan, told the inquiry that when patients were seen by his mother, Dr. Philomena MacManus, at her clinic in the Glenfarne and Kiltyclogher areas of County Leitrim, she would issue them with a necessary prescription. The patient would then come out to the car park of the health centre where Mr. MacManus would dispense the necessary medication from the boot of his car. The revelations emerged in a report the (HSE) kept under wraps for six years after complaints from another pharmacist, Finbarr Ryan, who is based in Manorhamilton. The HSE also sent Mr. Ryan a cheque for €54,000. The HSE said this was compensation primarily based on a figure of 50% of the estimated stock order earnings for the period 1998-1999 but extrapolated to June 2005, "together with an element in respect of the time and trouble which the complainant expended in pursuing his complaint and loss of purchasing power over the period." The inquiry found that Dr. MacManus was a director of her son John's pharmacy business and this contravened her medical card contract with the health board. The report said the practice of dispensing from the boot of the car stopped when the north eastern health board intervened. The report, a copy of which has been seen by the Irish Independent, also found that Mr. MacManus delivered medicines through the letterboxes of patients. In some cases, in excess of one month's supply was delivered by Mr MacManus to the patients' homes. The inquiry, led by independent management consultant Derry O'Dwyer and senior health service pharmacist Kate Mulvenna, concluded that there was "a risk to patients in this community" in relation to the dispensing of medicine by these methods. The team also looked at the circumstances surrounding Dr. MacManus's decision to transfer to her son the supply of medicines to her medical card patients in Arus Breffni, a nursing home run by the health board, in Manorhamliton in 1999. This was despite the fact that under health board contract rules, the nearest pharmacist, Mr. Ryan, of Gilberts, Manorhamilton, should have had the business. When challenged, she said it was her "prerogative" to choose her son's pharmacy, which was in Belturbet, Co Cavan, 44 miles away. It was this transfer of business which led Mr. Ryan to complain. Mr. MacManus has since also opened a pharmacy in Manorhamilton. The inquiry, according to the Independent's Health Correspondent, Eilish O'Regan, found the supply of medicines to Arus Breffni lacked proper controls and risk management. It found that none of the medicines they examined in the nursing home in November 2002 was labelled on an individual named basis "as would be expected" when dispensed by a pharmacist on foot of a medical card prescription. The inquiry was later ordered to investigate the complaints. Mr. Ryan spent years trying to secure a copy of the report, after the inquiry was set up in 2002. It was finally released on the orders of Information Commissioner Emily O'Reilly. Soon afterwards, Mr. Ryan received his cheque, which the HSE termed an ex gratia payment. The cheque has never been cashed. The doctor and pharmacist who were the subjects of the inquiry said it was a "minor dispute between two pharmacists - and was of no interest or concern to the general public". In a statement to the Irish Independent, Dr. MacManus said she had been practising medicine for over 30 years in the Manorhamilton area in Co Leitrim and served her community well. "Most particularly hurtful are the allegations that patient care may have been compromised, which the MacManuses completely deny," the statement said. "In fact, there has never been any official complaint or disciplinary action taken against them by the health board or by any other medical or professional body on foot of the report." Rejecting a "large part of the conclusions of the report" they added that "in the few instances where the report pointed out genuine issues that needed to be addressed, Dr MacManus and Mr MacManus took action as quickly as possible to rectify these matters." They claimed "there was never a complaint by a member of the public or from the staff at (community nursing unit) Arus Breffni" in relation to how they either prescribed or dispensed medicines to patients, and there was never any question of a risk to patient care. He said he was providing a service to an isolated community that had not previously existed. Patients petitioned the health board asking that he be allowed to continue it. Dr. MacManus said no patient received the wrong drug in any prescription signed by her and she was entitled to prescribe drugs for more than one month, depending on the patient and nature of the drug. "The matter of Mr. MacManus providing some patients with supply of medicines in excess of 28 days was immediately addressed by him." Dr MacManus claimed the changeover for the supply of drugs to Arus Breffni by her son was done with the specific agreement of the health board. The method of dispensing the medicines to the home was clear to the health board and staff in the nursing home. They were later changed by them in consultation with Mr. MacManus. Dr. MacManus admitted she was a director of her son's pharmacy company but had no beneficial interest in the company. She resigned in 2000. She added that she had been denied the right to comment on the full and final report. 
