medicine
{ Mairead McGuinness 
    February 24 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/vets-oppose-move-to-allow-merchants-supply-prescription-medicines-26017979.html }
VETERINARY Ireland, which represents the country's vets, is strongly opposed to changes in the veterinary medicines legislation which would allow licensed merchants to supply prescribed animal medicines. The association is also opposed to moves to lift the general requirement on vets to clinically examine animals before prescribing antibiotics for bona fide clients. In a detailed response to proposals from the Department of Agriculture and Food on changes to the legislation governing veterinary medicines, the association's president, Peadar O Scanaill, said removing the requirement for a prior clinical examination before prescribing antibiotics would lead to misdiagnosis, undetected disease in cohort animals and inappropriate use of medicines. "It will lead to the development of dangerous bacteria which will become resistant to more and more drugs, with obvious consequences for human health," he warned. He described as irresponsible a proposal to extend the range of prescribed veterinary products which can be sold through licensed merchants. "The filling of a prescription is too serious an issue to allow it to be dealt with by merchants who have been given minimal training." Vets and pharmacists spent many years studying pharmacology, etc, and this proposal completely white-washed this and demeaned the whole concept of writing a prescription, he said. An amendment to the 1996 Regulations to remove the exception for intramammaries from the general rules on antibiotics is, however, supported by Veterinary Ireland but only if intramammaries are supplied as part of an operational mastitis control programme on the farm. Veterinary Ireland want two separate designations for animal medicines. All 'Class 1' Prescription Only Medicines such as antibiotics, hormones and anti-inflammatories would continue to require an examination of the animals by the vet before they are administered. 'Class 2' medicines would require advice by the vet without the need for immediate prior clinical examination before the sale. Veterinary Ireland is proposing that a provision should be made in the Animal Remedies Regulations for vets and their bona fide clients to put in place an audited animal health programme for food producing animals. This programme would require visits sufficiently often to allow the vet to be aware of the current animal health status of animals on the farm. Veterinary Ireland is raising its concerns with the Food Safety Authority of Ireland, the Irish Medicines Board, the Food Safety Centre at UCD and the all-island body, the Food Safety Promotion Board. 
