medicine
{ John Walshe Education Editor 
    January 21 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/free-schools-are-top-for-medicine-26004973.html }
SCHOOLS in the Free Education Scheme sent twice as many students to study medicine at the Royal College of Surgeons last year as fee-paying and grind schools. But what is particularly surprising about the latest feeder schools' league table is the absence of most of the top fee-paying schools in the greater Dublin area who might have been expected to feature. In fact, only three fee-paying schools appear - Sutton Park and CBC Monkstown in Dublin, and Midleton College, Co Cork. The other schools that charge fees are in the 'grind schools' category - the Institute of Education in Dublin, Yeats College in Galway and the Limerick Tutorial Centre. Two of the three Limerick Centre students won scholarships. The Institute of Education sent two students - one of whom won a scholarship. Yeats also sent two students and one of them won a scholarship. The current value of the bursary is ?2,603.33 - the other scholarship winners came from schools in the Free Education Scheme, Colaiste Eoin, Cork, Laurel Hill Secondary School, Limerick, St Mary' Secondary School, Presentation College, Tuam, Co Galway and Gaelcholaiste Ceatharlach. A student already in UCD with 600 points switched to medicine after winning a scholarship in Surgeons. All but three of the other successful candidates for medicine in Surgeons went to secondary schools in the Free Education scheme. They all had at least 570 points each, which was the minimum cut-off point for medicine. No details were available about the school origin of two other candidates, while the remaining places in the Surgeons quota of 40 EU students was made up from graduate applicants. The two to one ratio in favour of Free Education schools is the same as in Trinity College Dublin. It represents a change in the make-up of Surgeons students over the past few years. The College campaigned for years before the Department of Education agreed to extend the Free Fees ruling to Irish and EU students there. Prior to that decision three years ago, fee-paying schools sent a higher proportion of students to Surgeons than now. The bulk of medical students in Surgeons are from outside the EU and pay fees of up to ?33,000 a year. A report from consultants Indecon says that Surgeons took in ?27m in fees two years ago, mostly from non-EU student fees. Its "outstanding reputation" was singled out this week in the London 'Times', which said that 2500 to 3000 students apply there every year. The Indecon report was prepared for the working group on undergraduate medical education, which will draw attention to the underfunding of Irish medical schools compared with those abroad. It is also expected to recommend a lifting of the cap on places for Irish and EU students - the cap of 305 places was introduced in 1978 on foot of recommendations from the Higher Education Authority. A lobbying group has also been set up to campaign for the increase in the number of places for Irish and EU students. It claims that the cap is outdated and is putting medical education out of the reach of even very highly qualified applicants. It's not unknown for some students to repeat and even take the Leaving Certificate three times in order to get into one of the country's five medical schools. Many Irish students also apply to study medicine in the UK but do not always return when they qualify. Some are going further afield. Brian Mooney, president of the Institute of Guidance Counsellors said that private universities in Budapest and the Czech Republic were offering places in medicine to Irish students. These courses, which were fee-paying, were offered in English, he said. Yeats College in Galway has a pre-medical course arrangement with the university in the Czech Republic. Concern over the high points for medicine and the effect they had on the whole points system prompted former Minister Noel Dempsey to announce that he intended to have a system of graduate only intake. But he accepted a compromise proposal last year which would allow for a dual entry system - for school leavers and graduates - into medicine. The change-over is due to come into effect from 2007. 
