medicine
{ Lorna Reid 
    August 10 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/lombard-could-go-to-jail-if-convicted-over-drug-imports-25901667.html }
CATHAL Lombard could go to jail if he is convicted of importing illegal medicines into the country. Under regulations introduced last year, it is an offence to import a prescription-only product such as EPO into Ireland by mail order. Punishment for such an offence ranges up to one year in jail or a maximum fine of ?127,000 on conviction in the Circuit Court. A conviction in the District Court carries a maximum fine of ?1,297. An Irish Medicines Board spokeswoman said: "The IMB is responsible for the investigation of any such breaches and irregularities but the Board cannot comment on individual cases." The disgraced athlete was tracked by Customs and Excise as deliveries of banned performance enhancing drugs were posted to him in Ireland. He had ordered quantities of EPO (erythropoietin) from an internet site but the deliveries set off alarm bells at customs who immediately alerted the Irish Medicines Board. Although the 28-year-old is not facing any monetary penalty from the Irish Sports Council, chief executive John Treacy said last night the council was looking "very seriously" at asking Lombard to repay his grant money. "We could have charged Cathal Lombard with trafficking in these illegal medicines under the new anti-doping laws, but we have him on the positive test, thanks to the very significant information we got from the Irish Medicines Board," said Mr Treacy, who won a silver medal in the marathon at the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles. He added that it was now a matter for the IMB if Mr Lombard was going to face any charges. The key to Lombard's downfall came through the routine checking by Customs and Excise of possible illicit medicines being imported into the country. Staff from the Irish Medicines Board inspect the products which are either impounded or released to the addressee. "We have the right to open anything we are suspicious of," a spokesperson for Customs said. "One of the first things which alerts staff is that there is no declaration form accompanying a particular package. Medicines which are imported for commercial use come in much larger quantities so we are always on the lookout for substances in plain wrapping or without proper documentation," the spokesman said. He added that there were about 23 seizures of illicit medicines a year, with EPO and testosterone being two of the more popular imports as sports performance enhancing drugs. The trade in illicit medicines has blossomed since the growth of Internet accessibility. Last year the IMB made 17 seizures relating to sports enhancing products. 
