medicine
{ David Looby 
    December 15 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/fundraising-night-planned-for-sick-child-37612941.html }
A special fundraising night featuring amazing spot prizes is being held in aid of Asseel Osman, the four-year-old New Ross boy who suffers from a multiplicity of medical issues for which he needs medicinal cannabis. It takes place in the Green Door pub on Mary Street in New Ross on Saturday, December 22 with great music planned. Asseel suffers from cerebral palsy and epilepsy and his family are desperately fighting for his right to proper healthcare. Despite being the first child in Ireland to use medicinal cannabis, he is still without a licence.  People Before Profit's Susan Breen, who has been campaigning for Asseel's parents Mahad and Zara to get the cannabis oil for their son, said: 'Every day that goes by without his medicine causes more long-term damage.' His parents have been told that any other medical treatments available in Ireland have been exhausted. Medicinal cannabis is the only treatment that works. In desperation Asseel's father travelled abroad to access medicine for his son but the medicine is running out.  'Since he began the treatment again, Asseel and his family's life is unrecognisable. He is no longer bed-bound, his seizures have reduced from every seven minutes to only two to three a day. He can sit in his wheelchair, sleep soundly and is not constantly contorted by spasms. But Asseel's medicine is running out, and with no hope of a ministerial licence in sight the Osman's will be forced to once again travel abroad in search of help.' The cost of three months supply of the medicinal drug can come to almost €6,000 if obtained through registered doctors in Holland, but can be sourced for much cheaper on the black market in Spain, where Mahad sourced it last month. Susan said Mahad and Zara want to ensure their son is getting the best medical assistance possible. 'This trip will cost thousands but without it Asseel will lose any quality of life and his parents will be forced to watch his health deteriorate again, purely because of the Irish Government's archaic stance on this natural medicine.' Everyone is invited to come along for great music, amazing spot prizes and a community show of solidarity for the Osman family who have been living in New Ross in Irishtown for the past decade. New Ross Standard 
