medicine
{  
    August 17 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/alternative-medicine-business-booming-in-then-area-27785348.html }
ALTERNATIVE therapies and health treatments are fast gaining ground across the country and the Malahide/Portmarnock areas seem to be embracing such concepts as homeopathy, aromatherapy, reiki, reflexology and even traditional Chinese medicine with great enthusiasm. A good number of alternative practitioners have set up shop in the area and the word is that business is booming. Malahide library was the venue for a free public health talk recently on the very subject of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). David McCartney, a local student of TCM who is just about to enter his final clinical year before he sets up his own practice, and colleague Christine Sheeran were very well received on the night. The talk ran for approximately an hour and a half, an hour of which consisted of questions from the audience, according to Dave. Most of them left much better informed on a subject that many had never previously heard of. The audience heard about the subtlety and complexities of Chinese medicine which are based on equally firm principles and philosophies to those of ‘allopathic’ or more ‘science-based’ medicine. Acupuncture is just a part of the complete system of healing usually referred to as Traditional Chinese Medicine, Dave explains. TCM is over 2000 years old and acupuncture forms just a small part of the whole range of therapies and treatments. Herbal medicine, moxibustion (a form of heat treatment), massage, dietary therapy, lifestyle advice and exercise in such forms as Tai Ji and Qi Gong (forms of breathing exercise) are other TCM therapies. Some people at the recent talk were surprised to learn that acupuncture and TCM are not only the primary form of medical care available in several countries around the world, but the sole medical resource for a large proportion of the world’s population. Most people will be familiar at least with the practice of acupuncture, which is based on tiny needles inserted painlessly into pre-determined pressure points in the body to heal an endless variety of complaints or illnesses. Dave McCartney says that acupuncture is entirely safe and free from harmful side effects in the hands of a fully qualified practitioner. It can be used alone or in combination with other TCM therapies. He believes it is safe to say that there is no sick person that TCM cannot treat. ‘It is not limited in terms of age, sex or condition. ‘The very young or very old can be treated. Pregnant women can be greatly assisted and even those with terminal illnesses are not excluded. ‘TCM can treat anyone who complains of a deficiency or breakdown in his or her health, whether it be on a physical, psychological, emotional or even spiritual level.’ As a system of treatment, TCM has always emphasised the promotion of positive health and has not restricted itself merely to the treatment of disease. This is done through lifestyle and dietary advice and often with not only Western exercise but also Eastern forms of exercise such as Tai Ji. Dave will embark on his clinical year in September and he now needs to enrol a number of clients for his internship, all of whom will be diagnosed and treated under strict supervision by himself and highly qualified experts in TCM. If you would like to find out more, please contact Dave at 087 2937280 or ring the Irish College of Traditional Chinese Medicine at 4967830. 
