medicine
{  
    March 05 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/buyers-be-very-wary-26829184.html }
A WIDE variety of products and services are regulated by law in Ireland. Did you know that soon it will be illegal for under 18s to use a sunbed? It's a little-known fact that novelty cigarette lighters are banned from the Irish market and if a retailer sells them they can end up in prison for three months. All toys containing magnets sold in the EU must display a health and safety warning because of choking risks to children. And if you tamper with the odometer in a car and sell it on you are committing a clear-cut offence. But while there are regulations in place for products as diverse as car clocks, magnetic toys and novelty cigarette lighters, it's not as stringent or clear cut for serious procedures like invasive surgery and other areas of medical treatment. In the past decade, new privatised medical sectors such as the cosmetic surgery industry, IVF facilities and facial filler services have grown exponentially. The result is that regulators are playing catch-up, big time. Now the whole area of regulation has been highlighted by the plight of Irish women who fear they may have the notorious PIP implants -- silicone breast implants that are the subject of a worldwide health alert.  Revealed Following an investigation into these French-made products it was revealed that silicone used in the PIP implants was not of medical grade, instead it was a type of silicone used in mattresses. They were manufactured by the now-closed company Poly Implant Prostheses (PIP). The Irish Medicines Board initiated a recall of PIP implants as far back as March 2010, following the French regulations about the unauthorised gel. Up to 1,500 women received PIP implants in Ireland and most of them got them in the Harley Medical Group, Shandon Street Hospital in Cork and Clane Hospital in Co Kildare. It is believed no PIP implants were used in HSE facilities. Mother of one Lisa Fair from Knocklyon in Dublin has PIP implants. "I am one of 1,500 women in Ireland with PIP breast implants. I had surgery in 2006 with the Harley Medical Group in Dublin. I didn't make the decision lightly and spent years carrying out research into the operation." All this changed before Christmas when news broke about the French investigation. "I called Harley Medical in Dublin but was assured by staff that I had nothing to worry about, that if I was affected I would have been contacted," says Lisa. Her worst fears were confirmed a week later. "On December 28 I received an email from Harley Medical saying that given the dates of my surgery that it was 'likely' my implants were PIP." Lisa was told she needed an MRI, which she would have to pay for, and if there was a rupture they would speak with her again. Out of frustration, Lisa set up a support group called PIP Action Group Ireland (accessible on Facebook and Twitter.) "We want the Minister for Health to hold these private clinics accountable for their duty of care to us as their patients. We are in limbo until the clinics decide or are forced to do the right thing and remove these faulty products from us," says Lisa. Stephen McMahon, the chairman of the Irish Patients Association, is similarly frustrated with the lack of adequate regulation in the cosmetic surgery industry. "There needs to be some review of the situation. The whole area needs regulation. If there's one thing we've learned -- light touch regulation doesn't work," he said. "There needs to be a formal review of how these clinics can be regulated and what the fall-back is when things go wrong. There should be legal responsibilities on these clinics," he adds. Campaigners for greater regulation of cosmetic surgery are disappointed with the inactivity of the Department of Health. Health & Living asked the Department of Health what proposals they had and they confirmed they are finally looking at regulating the cosmetic surgery sector: "The Department is developing legislative proposals for the licensing of public and private health-care providers and licensing of cosmetic surgery is being considered in this context. "Public consultation will take place later this year on draft proposals." The Department of Health are also warning people who are getting surgery done to check that cosmetic surgeons are registered here. They said that all medical practitioners, including cosmetic surgeons, must be registered under the Medical Practitioners Act 2007. This register is maintained by the Medical Council. The Department had this warning for anyone contemplating cosmetic surgery. "People who avail of the services of doctors performing cosmetic surgery should ideally discuss this decision in advance with their general practitioners and should seek the services of reputable providers. When invasive procedures are being arranged, people would be strongly advised to check that the services are provided by a medical practitioner who is registered in the appropriate division of the Register of Medical Practitioners with the Medical Council." Commenting on this, Lisa Fair says: "It's an unreasonable burden on patients to have to background check their doctor. As a patient you should be able trust a hospital that the doctor is suitably qualified to carry out a treatment. "Who actually Googles their doctor or dentist before going to them?" Enhanced regulation is urgently needed because there is a veritable alphabet soup of bureaucracy governing the area presently. The Medical Council registers the practitioners but if there is an issue with a product used in cosmetic surgery, as happened in the PIP case, then the Irish Medicines Board is the competent authority. But the IMB doesn't test the products before they get to market. To get a product on the European shelves a manufacturer obtains a CE mark. This is obtained from an independent certification body or 'notified body'. The Medicines Board has no role in this. Once the CE mark is obtained the product can be placed on the market. The PIP implants with the mattress-grade silicone acquired the CE mark. The Medicines Board only monitor when a product is on the market. The Irish Medicines Board confirmed this system is finally being reviewed. "This post-market surveillance system is carefully overseen by competent authorities and notified bodies. "The regulatory system for medical devices in Europe is in place since the mid-1990s and areas of the system which require enhancement, clarification and increased coordination have been identified." The IMB said that the European Commission will adopt legislative proposals to revise the regulations this year. "The legislation is likely to clarify provisions in the areas of: enhanced oversight/performance of notified bodies, coordination of post-market surveillance, increased transparency, clinical research and increased coordination and management of the system across Europe."  Fillers Another medical area where regulation needs to be tightened is the dermal fillers industry. The British Association of Dermatologists last month called on the UK equivalent of the Irish Medicines Board to reclassify fillers as medicines. Doctors in the UK are worried that facial fillers can cause infections and deformities and are often injected into patients by unqualified practitioners. The European Commission are to review legislation on dermal fillers in April. They want these products included within medical device regulations. Also there is concern that non-qualified staff may be carrying out treatments like dermal fillers. This is where another regulatory body comes on the scene, the Irish Dental Council, as it's becoming more common for dentists to administer fillers. The Dental Council says that dental nurses are not permitted to carry out any treatments on patients such as placing dental fillings and the IDC does not regard dermal fillers as the practice of dentistry. Even if a registered dentist chooses to provide procedures like dermal fillers they must fully comply with the professional behaviour and dental ethics code laid down by the Dental Council. Failure to observe these guidelines may lead to fitness to practise proceedings being taken under the Dentists Act, 1985. Cosmetic surgery and dermal fillers are not the only cause of concern. The Irish Patients Council are worried too about the lack of regulation in the IVF sector. Here's their chairman Stephen McMahon again. "A huge amount of work needs to be done in IVF. It's an expensive thing for people to go through. I'll give you one example. "There are all sorts of problems with anonymous donors, the right of the child to find out who the donor parent is down the line, and then the legal minefield on the implications on succession." Again the regulation of IVF is hopelessly confused in Ireland. The Irish Medicines Board told Health & Living that they authorise processes carried out in assisted human reproduction clinics but their remit doesn't include the review of "ethical and clinical aspects of the human application of those tissues and cells". These ethical dilemmas of IVF then fall back to the Department of Health who, you guessed it, are carrying out a review. In a statement they said: "The Department of Health is examining policy proposals to regulate the area of assisted human reproduction and related practices in Ireland. "The Minister will be examining the proposals with a view to submitting them to Government later this year. "Medical practice concerning the provision of assisted human reproduction services is governed by guidelines issued by the Irish Medical Council." To sum up, the Irish Medicines Board monitor the cells, tissues and processes, the practitioners in the IVF clinics are overseen by the Irish Medical Council and the Department of Health are currently examining proposals to review assisted human reproduction here. On the overall lack of regulation Lisa Fair says: "If I had known at the time there was such a gap in the regulation of the industry I would not have had my procedure done." Health & Living 
