medicine
{  
    February 29 2012 10:29 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/lifestyle/pharmacists-are-becoming-key-members-of-hospitals-and-all-health-care-units-27649862.html }
WE ALL are aware of the fact that medicines and drugs play a vital role in maintaining the health of the patients. While the doctors prescribe the right medicines, it is the pharmacist who make it available for the patients. There are various medical jobs that have a lot to offer, both in terms of career opportunities and learning. The job of a pharmacist is one of the jobs that gives an opportunity to learn the complexities of medicines. Pharmacists are the professionals who dispense medicines to the patients, as prescribed by the medical expert. In most of the cases, the experienced pharmacists can even prescribe some better drugs and medicines to the patients. One of the most important pharmacist job description is the management of medicines and drugs in health care units and hospitals. The pharmacist job description also includes assisting the patients, advising the medical experts and helping the patients by recommending the right medicine. Let's check out the duties of pharmacists. RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES Some of the job duties of a pharmacist are as follows. Give advise and assist doctors or surgeons in matters relating to dosages and prescriptions to the patient. Monitor and analyze the health of the patient, with respect to the drugs that have been given to the patient. Answer the queries of the patients about the probable side effects and benefits of the drug therapy. Seek immediate help from the doctor in case the drug shows some side effects on the patient. Recommend drugs to visitors with minor ailments. Advise and help patients about stress management, diet and exercise. Help patients with asthma, diabetes and other diseases to get relief. Advise about medications. Help the doctor in medical billing and paperwork of medical health insurance. Supervise the medicine store and take proper care of the medicines. 
