medicine
{  
    February 03 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/website-warns-of-dangers-of-dirving-under-medication-27450964.html }
Darren Keegan reports Minister of State, with responsibility for road safety, Robert Molloy, T.D., teamed up with Nenagh pharmacist Brendan Rochford and his brother Dr. Martin Rochford, owners of the eirpharm.com website and Garda Commissioner Eamon Keating to launch the www.eirpharm.com medicines and driving campaign. Drivers can now log on to www.eirpharm.com and select their medicine from a database of all OTC medicines on the Irish market to find out whether it causes drowsiness, increases the effects of alcohol or affects driving ability. The Minister stated "Though the Government had been involved in a series of campaigns to stop people from drunk driving, the message was still not getting through to many people. A more recent phenomenon is the problem of drug driving." He congratulated Brendan and Martin Rochford on developing the unique medicines database and said that anything that helped to promote road safety was to be welcomed. The effect of medicines on driving can be attributed to several factors including drowsiness, lethargy, a reduction in reaction time and a reduction in our ability to perform complicated or skilled tasks. Combining these medicines with alcohol will further worsen this effect. A UK survey, in 1994, found as many as 760 people a year killed in traffic accidents caused by the sedative effects of antidepressants. This survey also reported that 75% of patients on antidepressants admitted ignoring or claimed ignorance of warnings on medicine labels about driving. "While there is a high level of awareness of the dangers of drink-driving, many people are not aware that many medicines including cold and flu remedies can affect driving ability" said Brendan Rochford, owner of eirpharm.com. "The potential for danger is further increased when these medicines are combined with alcohol. In its first month, www.eirpharm.com achieved over 80,000 hits and won the national Doras Abu award. Previous winners of the award include ESB, AA Ireland, St. James Hospital and Volkswagen Ireland. 
