medicine
{  
    December 09 2014 03:53 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/motoring/car-news/new-guidelines-will-help-answer-if-you-are-medically-fit-to-drive-30813681.html }
A LOT of work has been carried out here over the past two years to review the standards around a driver's medical fitness to drive.  Before that there was little structured advice or support for medical professionals in the field of driver fitness. The finished product is a series of Medical Fitness to Drive guidelines which cover all categories - from car to truck and bus drivers. The changes have been spearheaded by Professor Des O'Neil, head of the National Programme Office for Traffic Medicine. It has brought together the medical expertise of 36 healthcare and other professional organisations. The office is a joint initiative between the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland (RCPI) and the Road Safety Authority. The standards agreed are based on current medical evidence, best practice. They include those set out in current European Directives that enable drivers with medical conditions, which may affect their driving, to be assessed effectively for a driving licence. Medical fitness for drivers is governed by EU law but it's up to each country to give suitable guidance to medical professionals on how they are to be implemented. The guidelines developed by the Office for Traffic Medicine were one of the first tasks when the new Office was established in 2011. Now health professionals have clear and updated guidelines so they can assess the fitness of patients to drive. At the heart of the exercise is the need to protect an individual's mobility. That is something integral to maintaining an independent lifestyle. For a driver, understanding the impact of an injury or a disease or the way certain medicines might affect driving is a vital aspect of road safety. The National Driver Licence Service, doctors, gardaí, legal professionals and others will use the new guidelines to decide on a person's fitness to drive. This week we took another big step forward in the area of traffic medicine. We have just become the first country in Europe to develop a Post Graduate Certificate in Traffic Medicine for doctors and other healthcare professionals. The certificate has been developed in response to a 2013 survey of 1,000 doctors carried out by the Office of Traffic Medicine. Over two-thirds said they wanted further educational support and training in traffic medicine, particularly when assessing the medical fitness to drive of patients. This really is a significant development and puts Ireland at the forefront of traffic medicine in Europe. Driving safely with a medical condition is an important aspect of health and well-being, and this course will keep doctors and health professionals up-to-date with developments. It will also give them a better understanding of the role of the health professional in assessing fitness to drive. A report carried out by the New England Journal of Medicine has shown that routine use of medical fitness-to-drive guidelines by doctors in the general assessment of their patients has been associated with a 45pc reduction in crashes. As a driver, if you're unsure about whether or not you should report a medical condition, seek advice from your doctor or health professional. It is important to remember that if you report your condition, it doesn't necessarily mean you will lose your licence. It might mean you have to see your doctor more often to check your condition is well managed. Or it may only mean that there are some restrictions placed on your driving. Irish Independent 
