medicine
{ Maria Herlihy 
    April 20 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/vera-walks-away-with-people-of-the-year-award-36820929.html }
Cork woman Vera Twomey, who rose to prominence during a two and a half year national campaign to secure medicinal cannabis to treat her young daughter's rare form of epilepsy, urged the Government to "take urgent action" and legislate on a licence to access medicinal cannabis in Ireland.  Her emotional speech was met with a standing ovation at the People of the Year awards, at which she received a top accolade.   Vera, who hails from Aghabullogue, pursued a determined campaign that encompassed protest walks, demonstrations, political confrontation and more than six months in the Netherlands accessing the treatment. Her determined lobbying efforts finally bore fruit for her eight year old daughter Ava's special licence to allow her to access medicinal cannabis.  In accepting her award, she said: "We were let down by the government but we were never let down by the Irish people."  She called on Taoiseach Leo Varadkar, who was at the event to present an award, to move through legislation that would legalise medicinal cannabis for more people in Ireland.  "We want it now and you are the man to do it, and we want you to do it immediately."  She said that her daughter, Ava, now has the freedom to "live, to grow and to be happy with a brighter future."   She said: "Everyone deserves that right now, and into the future - not just seven people who have been granted licences in Ireland to date, but the thousands of other people who are watching here tonight, hoping and praying that legislation will be brought through to ease their suffering and their pain. We need legislation to access treatment properly. We do not want pain, we want our rights. We do not want the pressure, we need our medication."   Her speech left many in the audience crying and was met with a standing ovation. Ava, suffers from Dravet Syndrome, which causes severe, dangerous and frequent seizures - sometimes up to 500 a month. While she had taken pharmaceutical medication for all of her life, it had limited impact.  Eventually, Ava's parents - Vera and Paul after much research came to the conclusion that medicinal cannabis was the only remaining alternative for her.   Vera also said that it is very hard to watch other families suffering in similar circumstances to theirs.   "I know there are hundreds of people suffering in Ireland who could potentially benefit from medicinal cannabis. The Government now needs to legislate and put a framework in place on this important issue to ensure that other families do not have to go through the same ordeal," said Vera.   She said: "The Government needs to consider and listen to the wealth of knowledge from professionals both in Ireland and across the world on this issue. Ava has received the benefit of medicinal cannabis prescribed and overseen by consultants, which has improved her health dramatically. It is now time that people throughout Ireland also have the same option in a therapeutic and professional environment."   Ava made the plea after being honoured with a People of the Year awards organised by Rehab. The award to Vera in recognition to her motivating campaign, bravery and determined spirit was presented by Rob and Marian Heffernan.  Corkman 
