medicine
{  
    December 01 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/former-doctor-sold-medicine-without-proper-licence-27365447.html }
A FORMER doctor from Moyvane, who was struck off the medical register last year and has since lived in the glare of national media attention, was convicted in Tralee District Court this week of selling prescription-only medicines without a licence Paschal Carmody (58) who now lives in Killaloe was convicted on Tuesday on nine counts relating to the sale and supply of prescription-only medicines without a licence. The medicines included St John’s Wort, which was previously commonly sold as an alternative medicine that required no licence. Mr Carmody of Ballycuggeran, Killaloe, Co. Clare, who has 11 previous convictions for similar offences, was fined a total of ?1,500, ordered to pay ?10,000 in costs and given a 10-months sentence suspended on condition that he be of good behaviour for 12 months. At a special sitting of Tralee district court, Judge James O'Connor adjourned the case for review to December 19 2007 and said the defendant would be jailed if he misbehaved in the meantime. Judge O'Connor said that, given his previous convictions, Mr Carmody should be getting a custodial sentence on this occasion but that the court “might be able to do something” if he was prepared to give an undertaking “go deo, go deo” that in future he would abide by trade regulations. Mr Carmody gave the required undertaking under oath. Brian McInerney SC, for the defence, said it was a difficult case which involved wrongdoing but also a very tragic human position. Mr Carmody and his Dingle-born wife, Frieda, have five children aged between 15 and 21. He had been a doctor in the Killaloe area before he was struck-off the medical register in September 2004. “This process took place almost in a fish bowl under the bright lights and glare of the media at every twist and turn,” his counsel said, adding, “The fact this all took place in such a public manner was a penalty in itself.” Mr Carmody, who had pleaded not guilty, was convicted on a total of nine counts of the sale and wholesale of St John's Wort and Melatonin on November 3, 2004 and January 30, 2004 and of the sale of Ultra Diet energizer containing Ephedrine on December 11, 2003. Hugo Bonnar, of the Irish Medicines Board, who lead the investigation, said the role of the board was to protect public health in relation to medicines and the offences related to breaches of regulations. “Any [medical] product being put on the market must be licensed by the board,” he said, adding that the distribution of such products without a license created a potential risk for patients. 
