medicine
{  
    October 05 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/court-furore-over-carmody-case-delay-27364809.html }
A doctor who faces 13 charges of keeping or supplying medicines without a licence is the subject of a witchhunt and a persecution, Tralee District Court was told last week.Paschal Carmody of Ballycuggaran, Killaloe, County Clare, is alleged to have committed the offences at Bawnboy, Ballyroe, Tralee, between dates in December 2003 and November 2004.Seamus Kane of Bawnboy, B A doctor who faces 13 charges of keeping or supplying medicines without a licence is the subject of a witchhunt and a persecution, Tralee District Court was told last week. Paschal Carmody of Ballycuggaran, Killaloe, County Clare, is alleged to have committed the offences at Bawnboy, Ballyroe, Tralee, between dates in December 2003 and November 2004. Seamus Kane of Bawnboy, Ballyroe, Tralee, was also before the court on nine similar charges, along with Lyntondell Ltd (T/A Daly Nutritionals) who were charged with 12 counts of selling or keeping medicines without a proper licence from the Irish Medicines Board. The prosecutions were brought against the defendants under the Irish Medicines Board Act 1995, the Medicinal Products (Licensing and Sale) Regulations 1998 and the Medical Preparations (Wholesale Licences) Regulations 1993. All the defendants denied the charges and were represented in court by solicitor John Devane. Mr Devane said that his clients were in court to meet the charges on July 18 last, but the Irish Medicines Board failed to appear. In a robust and animated submission made to Judge James O’Connor, Mr Devane sought for the proceedings to be struck out on the grounds that the IMB failed to comply with a court order to hand over all relevant documentation and failed to appear at a previous court hearing in July. He referred to the ‘media circus’ that surrounded the entire case and said that his clients, particularly Paschal Carmody, could not get a fair trial because of adverse publicity in newspapers and TV and radio programmes such as the Joe Duffy Show and The Late Late Show. He also told Judge James O’Connor that despite a ‘Gary Doyle’ court order to hand over all documents in relation to the case, he only received all the documentation from the Irish Medicines Board on the previous week and could not possibly have had enough time to examine the details contained within. Mr Devane also alleged that the IMB had tipped-off journalists in advance of the case coming to court and had issued a Press statement after the July hearing explaining that they were not in court because they did not know the case was listed for that date. The Irish Medicines Board denied that it deliberately failed to turn up in July because it was not prepared to proceed with the case or because it knew that it failed to provide all the relevant documentation to the defence. In heated exchanges between legal representatives from both sides, Mr Devane accused solicitor for the IMB Ronan O’Neill of lying to the court. Judge O’Connor said that he had heard on Radio Kerry in the days after the July hearing that the IMB did not attend because it did not know the case was on. He pointed out in court that in legal practice, the onus was on the IMB and their solicitors to find out when the case was due in court and that it was not the role of the court office or the defence to keep them informed. “You didn’t bother to follow it up. You can’t expect Mr Devane to be ready to go on with just three days to look over the material,” he told the IMB solicitor. Judge O’Connor ordered that the IMB pay the defendants’ costs for appearing on two separate days in court. He then adjourned the case to be heard on November 28 and 29 next and that in the meantime, all documentation would be handed-over in compliance with the ‘Gary Doyle’ order made at a previous court hearing. 
