medicine
{  
    September 15 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/five-mounthawk-students-to-take-up-medicine-courses-27367778.html }
MOST secondary school principals would be delighted to produce one student every year who gets enough points in his or her Leaving Cert to study medicine.With the standard of exam results getting higher every year, medicine has retained its traditional status as one of the most sought-after college courses - the preserve of an elite number of high achievers. So imagine the MOST secondary school principals would be delighted to produce one student every year who gets enough points in his or her Leaving Cert to study medicine. With the standard of exam results getting higher every year, medicine has retained its traditional status as one of the most sought-after college courses - the preserve of an elite number of high achievers. So imagine the delight of Tony Behan, principal of Mercy Mounthawk in Tralee, when he discovered this week that no less than five of the students who sat their Leaving at the school in June, have been accepted to various universities to study medicine. This figure includes one student who secured a much sought-after place in a prestigious new university in England. “There was a time when the ‘call to training’ was the yardstick by which a particular school or Leaving Cert group’s performance could be judged. Nowadays I suppose the number gaining entry to medicine is the supreme test,” Mr Behan said. He further pointed out that none of the five were repeat students and all took a full part in all aspects of school life throughout the year. The five students in question were Breda Carroll, the daughter of Brendan and Mary from Ballymacquinn, Abbeydorney; Deirdre Sills, the daughter of Dr Tony and Mary Sils from Castlegregory; Gillian Fitzgerald, the daughter of Brendan and Valerie from Clogherbrien, Tralee; Khalid Ballal from The Kerries, Tralee, who is the son of Dr Elmahi Ballal, registrar at Kerry General Hospital and Lauragh McCarthy, daughter of John and Maria from Marian Park, Tralee. Gillian, who got the maximum 600 points in the Leaving Cert, will be studying at UCC, as will Breda, who combined her studying with head girl duties at Mounthawk during the year. Lauragh, who was a member of the school’s successful science quiz team during the year, has opted to study in UCD, while Deirdre was one of the few Irish students to secure a place at the University of East Anglia in Norwich. Khalid Ballal’s was perhaps the most remarkable achievement of all, as he came to Kerry in 1999 with no knowledge of English. Not alone did he obtain an honour in English in the Leaving Cert, but he also shone at German, and has been accepted to study medicine at the University of Hamburg. “All five students attributed their phenomenal success to the support they received from their families and the dedication and commitment of the school staff who motivated them to achieve their maximum potential,” said Mr Behan. 
