medicine
{ Aideen Sheehan Agriculture Correspondent 
    July 20 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/drug-ruling-would-create-black-market-25976509.html }
A MAJOR black market in animal medicines will be created if Agriculture Minister Mary Coughlan imposes stringent new restrictions regarding who can prescribe medications, an Oireachtas Committee on Agriculture was told yesterday. The Irish Pharmaceutical Union (IPU) pleaded for pharmacists to be allowed continue prescribing certain medicines for food-producing animals when an EU Animal Remedies Directive is transposed into Irish law later this year. The alternative - where only vets are allowed prescribe animal medicines - would result in a monopoly situation giving farmers no options on where they bought medicines. In Britain this situation had led to high prices and a "major black market", said IPU Secretary General Seamus Feely. The UK was now rowing back on this system of monopoly by giving pharmacists and some merchants the right to prescribe certain medications, said Mr Feely. Consequently, if Ireland proceeded to tighten regulations this would mean medicines would be widely available over the border that could only be got on a vet's prescription in the Republic. Mr Feely said that pharmacists had been providing a veterinary service to farmers for over 125 years and were their first port of call when caring for sick animals. The viability of many rural pharmacies would be threatened if they could no longer prescribe veterinary medicines, he said. The IPU called for a tiered system for prescribing animal medications which would allow pharmacists to presribe certain products and would exempt certain products from prescription controls, allowing farmers to continue to choose where they bought their medicines. "It is also the only way to prevent a monopoly supplier of veterinary medicines and a black market emerging which is in no one's interests," said Mr Feely. The IPU said this would be in line with the Directive's aims of safeguarding public health without hindering the industry or its trade in animal medicines. 
