medicine
{  
    October 25 2010 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/real-life-a-dose-of-reality-26692782.html }
MEDICINES are meant to make us better so when one is withdrawn because it harms rather than heals then the public rightly gets alarmed. The most recent scare concerns Avandia, a drug used to treat Type II diabetes. Avandia was taken off the market in Ireland and the EU last month because of concerns about links to heart attacks. The active ingredient in Avandia is rosiglitazone and this has been licensed in the EU since 2000 to help control blood-sugar levels in Type II diabetics. It has been monitored since its introduction because Avandia was linked to fluid retention and an increased risk of heart failure from the start. The Irish Medicines Board oversees our drugs standards and it argues that Avandia was always prescribed with warnings. "The authorisation stated that patients with heart failure or a history of heart failure should not be prescribed rosiglitazone." The IMB said Avandia was regarded as a last resort medication, used only when other drugs didn't control diabetes. "The medicine was only to be used in patients for whom other treatments were unsuitable or whose diabetes did not respond satisfactorily to treatment with other anti-diabetes medicines," said an IMB spokeswoman.  High profile Avandia isn't the only high-profile drug to be taken off the Irish market of late. Earlier this year the weight-loss drug Reductil was also withdrawn here when research showed that there was a risk of strokes or heart attacks for patients. When a popular medicine is suddenly taken off the shelves, it's important to question how easy it is for drugs to be approved and if medicines are adequately monitored once they're on the Irish market. There is a raft of Irish and EU regulations governing the testing of medicines before they go on the market and to police them once they're on sale. National laws include the 2007 Medicinal Products (Control of Placing on the Market) Regulations and a 2004 statutory instrument governing clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. The Irish Medicines Board is in charge of the testing and regulation of drugs here and at EU level the European Medicines Agency has an overarching role. Before drugs get the green light, they go through rigorous clinical testing, involving the use of volunteers as human guinea pigs. Once the Irish Medicines Board gives the go ahead for these trials, the drug goes through four phases of testing. Phase 1 involves testing a small group of people and is usually conducted with healthy volunteers. If side effects are anticipated then people who have the condition the medicine is designed to treat are tested instead. The next phase, Phase II, trials several hundred patients who all have the condition that the medicine is designed to treat. These tests are randomised with some people receiving the drug, others a placebo and sometimes a third group gets an existing drug that's used to treat the condition. Phase III involves further testing of how effective the medicine is and gathers more safety data in randomised and blinded clinical trials. The numbers tested at this stage could be anything from several hundred to several thousand patients -- usually people who suffer from the condition. After these three phases are successfully completed, the drug company then applies for a drug licence to sell the medicine. The medicine licence application process can take up to 15 months. Testing after the drug comes on the market is referred to as Phase IV trials. These tests are used to pick up different side effects which may have been missed when conducting earlier trials. The diabetes drug Avandia has been on the Irish market since 2000 and was once a multi-billion euro top-selling drug for GlaxoSmithKline. However sales have declined, particularly since 2007, after a 'New England Journal of Medicine' article by cardiologist Steven Nissen stated there was a 40pc increased risk of heart attacks with the drug. Despite the significant decline since 2007, global sales of Avandia and drugs containing the same active ingredient were around €350m in the first half of 2010. The market for diabetes drugs is vast with the International Diabetes Federation estimating that global healthcare costs for diabetes this year will be €270bn. The European Medicines Agency has also been monitoring the safety of Avandia over the years and following a regulatory review in 2007 the number of prescriptions for it declined significantly. But during the decade that Avandia was on the market, just how many suspected reactions have there been? This is what the Irish Medicines Board revealed. "We have received 40 reports of suspected adverse reactions associated with rosiglitazone from 2000, when it was first licensed, to 2009. No suspected adverse reactions have been notified to date in 2010. "Approximately half of the reports received involve cardiovascular adverse events. Other suspected adverse reactions reported in association with rosiglitazone-containing medicines included anaemia, fractures, myalgia, macular oedema and hepatobiliary (liver) events," the IMB spokeswoman added. As with any medication prescribed to people with a specific condition, there's often confusion as to whether the drug or the underlying condition is causing their symptoms. This has caused difficulties for the Irish Medicines Board.  Declined "People with diabetes have an increased risk of cardiovascular disorders, including heart attacks and heart failure. It is therefore not possible to establish what role, if any, rosiglitazone may have played in a heart attack or stroke." A spokesperson for GlaxoSmithKline declined to give the number of adverse reactions to the drug in Ireland. "Unfortunately we can't give out exact numbers as they are confidential but it is relatively very small. There are always side effects for every medicine and we have over the years received a small number of adverse events for Avandia. "We collect, monitor and report every adverse event for every one of our medicines to the appropriate regulatory authorities and our own global safety database," she added. While it's withdrawn in Europe, Avandia is heavily restricted but has still not been banned outright in the United States. Thousands of lawsuits have been filed against GlaxoSmith-Kline in the US by Avandia users. This is what GlaxoSmithKline had to say about the Europe-wide ban. "In June this year two new papers were published suggesting rosiglitazone was associated with an increased risk of heart problems. Although data from six randomised controlled clinical trials failed to confirm any increased cardiovascular risk, the European Medicines Agency reviewed all available data on rosiglitazone-containing products and came to the conclusion that the benefits of these products no longer outweighed their risks." A reported 3,000 diabetics took Avandia in Ireland and Dr Anna Clarke of the Diabetes Federation of Ireland has this advice for them. "People who are currently taking the drug are being highly monitored because of the known risks. "I would advise anyone who may be taking it to go back to their doctors for alternative treatment," Dr Clarke says. Irish Independent 
