medicine
{  
    October 12 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/the-man-who-gives-a-whole-new-meaning-to-gut-feeling-26244709.html }
John McKenna combines science with natural medicine in his book on digestive disorders, writes Patricia Redlich DR JOHN McKenna's latest book Hard to Stomach: Real Solutions to Your Digestive Problems is dedicated to his son David, who is 10 years old and lives with his mother in South Africa. In the dedication he tells David how much he loves him and how greatly he admires the courage with which the child faces their separation. It is a measure of the man that he has no difficulty putting a very personal emotional message at the beginning of a comprehensive, enlightening and scientifically knowledgeable book, which entertainingly explains what's wrong with modern digestion, why problems like irritable bowel are now commonplace, and how tiredness, irritability, poor memory, lack of concentration, headaches, and susceptibility to infections all have their origins in our gut. Five years ago, John left a thriving practice in natural medicine, which he had slowly and painstakingly built up in Ireland, to join his family in South Africa, unable to bear the separation from his children and the impossibility of regular commuting. His wife Judith, whom he'd met while working in Africa, hadn't been able to settle in Ireland, and had returned home two years earlier with their three daughters and young son. Neither the marriage nor the living environment worked out. In his divorce he received custody of his daughters, while his son stayed with his ex-wife. And after several security incidents, the last involving a break-in during which he was held at knife-point, John decided to heed the wake-up calls and leave. He's currently living with his daughters in England, works three days a week in the Fairgreen Holistic Clinic in Naas, Co Kildare, and is making plans to set up home in Ireland soon. He clearly finds the separation from his son very distressing. "Since the divorce David has always felt that his dad and sisters had abandoned him. It's been such a struggle trying to talk to him on the phone. And any meaningful conversation was effectively impossible. "That's when I thought of the idea of dedicating this latest book to him. I sent him a copy, and now I think he knows he's loved. He's certainly talking more. In fact sometimes you can't shut him up. And as I said in the dedication, I hope we are not separated for much longer." Knowing the complexities involved in sharing children, one can only hope that it all works out. Brought up in rural Armagh, John first studied science, specialising in microbiology, the study of small organisms such as bacteria, fungi and viruses. And there he learned a basic lesson. Bacteria defeat all human endeavour, changing faster than we can find new medicines to kill them. Which is why conventional medicine's free hand with antibiotics has led to today's superbugs. He also learned to respect the important balancing act that the various forms of bacteria play in nature, a stepping stone to later understanding the gut and how a disturbance in intestinal bacteria causes ill-health. Working with nature which in medical terms means helping the body to fight infections rather than simply zapping with drugs became a mantra, long before he even started to study medicine. Mainstream medicine left him still feeling very displaced. "I looked at it with real horror. I was now a member of a profession with which I hadn't got a lot in common. Almost 10 years in university and I still didn't know where I was going. I felt verydisillusioned." Perhaps. But Dr John McKenna already had all the building blocks in place for his future career. During his medical train-ing he took courses in Germany and Austria. "I was always interested in gastroenterology and they were the experts." They also had a long and honourable tradition of natural medicine. And developed their speciality very much along the lines of Dr Metchnikoff, who won a Nobel Prize in 1908 for his work on the digestive tract, maintaining that digestive disturbances such as peptic ulcers, diarrhoea, constipation and even cancer of the colon were all the result of disturbances in the delicate bacterial balance in the gut. Dysbiosis was the name he gave this imbalance. We are familiar with one example of such imbalance, namely the overgrowth of Candida albicans following treatment with antibiotics. Back practising in Ireland, John had days when he felt he was getting somewhere and others when he was not. "Then 13 years ago I met a wonderful man, the healer and author Paddy McMahon, and felt for the first time that somebody understood me. That was incredibly comforting. Basically he told me that I was first and foremost a healer, who had gone the scientific route in order to be able to combine science with natural medicine." In his book on digestive disorders he does just that. And demonstrates that he's also an accomplished teacher, setting out the material in an accessible and orderly form, making it fascinating as well as informative and telling us not only what is wrong, but what we can do to heal ourselves, and even more importantly, prevent illness. There are case histories, treatment programmes, diets and details of what's happening when we've something as specific as irritable bowel syndrome, or symptoms as diverse as puffy eyes, hormonal disturbances, belching, skin rashes, insomnia, mouth ulcers, bad breath and constipation. The digestive tract is a natural place for Dr McKenna to concentrate his efforts because natural medicine emphasises the need to help the body heal itself. And what I didn't know, until I read the book, is that the major part of the immune system resides in the digestive tract. Along with the 500 forms of bacteria, delicately balanced, which "act like soldiers", the gut wall has large patches of lymphoid tissue called gut-associated lymphatic tissue that manufacture lymphocytes, or fighter cells, which ward off infections. The healthy gut doesn't just feed us by extracting nutrients from food. It protects us from illness by mobilising our immune system. John McKenna is happy to be practising in Ireland again. He believes we have a scepticism which keeps our minds open to alternatives and our practitioners very much on their toes. He sounds like a man who has come home. Hard to Stomach: Real Solutions to Your Digestive Problems @@STYL cf,milb is published by Newleaf, ?11.99 
