medicine
{  
    April 05 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/new-president-appointed-for-ucd-26230268.html }
PROFESSOR Hugh Brady, who has been appointed President of UCD, will  take up his post on January 1st, 2004. The selection committee sees Professor Brady as  "...an outstanding scholar of established international reputation whose appointment will ensure that UCD will remain committed to the attainment of the highest academic standards and demonstrates its commitment to attract PROFESSOR Hugh Brady, who has been appointed President of UCD, will take up his post on January 1st, 2004. The selection committee sees Professor Brady as "...an outstanding scholar of established international reputation whose appointment will ensure that UCD will remain committed to the attainment of the highest academic standards and demonstrates its commitment to attracting significant and sustainable funded research and with it, young scholars and students of the highest quality." Professor Brady is professor of medicine and therapeutics at UCD, Mater Misericordiae University Hospital. He was educated at UCD where he was awarded undergraduate degrees in medicine (1982) and science (1984.) He was subsequently awarded PhD and MD degrees for research in renal physiology and molecular medicine. Prior to returning to UCD in 1996 as professor of medicine and therapeutics, he had worked at Harvard University for nine years, most recently as associate professor of medicine and previously at the University of Toronto. At Harvard, he led an independent research group funded by the national institutes of health, the department of veterans affairs and private funding organisations. He served as tutor in Harvard's New Pathway undergraduate medical curriculum and initiated and directed post graduate courses at Harvard. In parallel with his academic career, he served as administrative and clinical director of the renal division of the Brockton/West Roxbury VA Medical Centre which includes two major Harvard-affiliated hospitals. Following his appointment as head of the department of medicine at UCD, he spearheaded reorganisation of the department's curriculum content and delivery and the introduction of a new student mentoring system and examination format. Professor Brady led the development of the Catherine McAuley Education and Research Centre at the Mater Misericordiae University Hospital which accommodates UCD's new centre for undergraduate medical education. In this role, he was primarily responsible for arranging the property gift and funding (total value, ?17 million) necessary for the centre. Professor Brady serves on the faculty of medicine board of undergraduate studies, a team of senior academics charged with reform of the entire undergraduate medical curriculum. He has initiated through the Conway Institute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research, a new structured Ph.D and MD programme in Molecular medicine based on cross collaboration between a number of faculties and other educational institutions. Since returning to UCD, Professor Brady has sustained an international reputation in research as evidenced by grant support from national and international agencies (over ?3.3 million), publication in leading journals, patents, memberships of editorial boards, lectures, invitations and visiting professorships. As a member of the President's Research Committee, he advises on UCD's institutional research strategy. As acting director, Professor Brady was responsible for the management and administration of the institute which was founded in 1999 and to date, has generated substantial funding. He also played a leadership role in the formation of the Dublin Molecular Medicine Centre which is a research partnership between UCD and TCD established in 2000 with the potential to establish Dublin as a leading international hub in biomedical research. Outside UCD, Professor Brady plays a variety of national and international education and research-related leadership roles. These include being chairman of the Health Research Board which plays a national leadership role in health research policy. He advises the minister for health and children on a range of research-related issues, he's a member of the Higher Education Authority which advises the minister for education and science on all aspects of third level education and research policy. Professor Brady is president of the Nephrological Society and is a member of a range of international committees and task forces. As a clinician, he manages a large multi disciplinary clinical service at the Mater. He also served on the board of management of the Mater Hospital. Professor Brady is married to Dr Yvonne O'Meara. They have three children. 
