medicine
{ Sean Gallagher 
    March 28 2015 08:47 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/your-stories/a-medicine-woman-whose-business-keeps-the-rest-of-us-safe-from-harm-31102283.html }
Few of us will get through life without the need for an occasional trip to the doctor's surgery. Whether for a minor ailment or a more serious condition, we often come away with a prescription for the pharmacy.  Over the years, we have come to expect that these medicines will not only be effective in curing us, but will also be safe for us to consume. Ann McGee, managing director of McGee Pharma International, has spent the last 30 years working in the pharmaceutical industry. She now runs her own successful business helping advise and support pharma companies develop, manufacture and distribute medicines safely. Based in Portmarnock in Dublin, she employs 12 full-time staff, has over 35 associate consultants available to work with her, and generates annual turnover of almost €2m. I quickly learn from Ann that, before drugs are allowed to be sold in a country, they must first be licensed by that country's regulatory authority. In Ireland, this is the job of the Health Products Regulatory Authority (HPRA), the equivalent to the US Food and Drugs Administration. Before they can be licensed, all drugs must first pass a series of rigorous clinical trials to ensure they are both effective and are not harmful to humans. Even drugs that are manufactured abroad and imported into Ireland must be licensed by the HPRA before being sold here. "Our services can be grouped into two main categories. The first is quality and compliance, where we help companies develop the necessary processes and procedures to ensure that they are complying with all the strict regulations governing the manufacture of medicines. "This includes sourcing raw materials, handling products and choosing the most suitable production equipment. In addition, we support firms in achieving greater efficiency in the production line as well as advising them on how products should be stored, packaged and labelled," explains Ann. "Secondly, in the area of product development and commercial manufacturing, we help companies working on developing new products as well as those who are entering into mergers and acquisitions, completing due diligence and organisational redesign or who may be considering building a new facility," she adds. The company's clients include firms involved in the pharmaceutical, bio-pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare sectors. While some are small and medium sized businesses, others include five of the top ten global pharma firms. Having recently built up a team of experienced international consultants, she now also exports her services throughout the US, Australia, Europe and Russia, with 40pc of her turnover coming from the US alone last year. Ann McGee grew up in Terenure in Dublin. She credits her parents as inspiration and great role models. Her father worked as chief pharmacist in Guinness, while her mother ran her own secretarial services business. "In the 1960s, it was not widely accepted for women to work outside the home. However, my mother managed to run her own business while at the same time looking after myself and my two brothers. "I learned a valuable lesson from her that anything is possible so long as you commit fully to it," explains Ann. "My mother was also instrumental in developing in me a strong sense of confidence and a desire to be independent and self-sufficient. Growing up, she would often advise me never to be dependent on anyone else for my survival or physical needs," she adds. For the young Ann, education seemed the most obvious pathway to ensuring her future independence. In 1983, she qualified as a pharmacist at Trinity before going on to complete a Master's in Science. She later worked with Austin Darragh's Institute of Clinical Pharmacy before going on to join Waterford Pharmaceuticals where she stayed for the next six years. In 1993, she became one of the first inspectors in the Irish Medicines Board (now the HPRA) where she gained experience in the areas of regulation and compliance. "During my time as an inspector, I saw international consultants coming to Ireland to work with firms to help get their processes right. I knew, from my experience in both regulation and industry, that I could do what they were doing and even better," explains Ann. "That really ignited my desire to someday set up my own business. And I also wanted to be in a position to be able to make a real difference in the sector especially around ensuring the quality of medicines available," she adds. However, it would take her another six years to make that dream a reality, during which time she busied herself working and gained even further experiences as registrar and CEO of the Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland, the professional body for pharmacists in Ireland. But by 2004, she had grown increasingly frustrated with the pace at which decisions were being made and decided it was finally time to go after her dream. "After handing in my notice, I immediately felt liberated. That was, at least until the panic set in," says Ann laughing. "It was scary because, by then, I was married with two young children and we had a big mortgage," she admits. However, word soon got out that she was available and the phone began to ring. The very next week, she started her very first contract as a self-employed consultant. With no office to work from, she moved her two young sons into one shared bedroom and converted the other into a small home office with a desk, a computer, phone and a single empty filing cabinet. For the first few months, she worked two days a week for her new client, spending the rest of the time focusing on business development and reaching out to contacts and former colleagues, telling them she was now working for herself. With her children aged just three and five, it became a balancing act between business and family. "I was doing everything in the business myself, often working up to 80 hours a week -making calls, lining up projects, completing the work and going to the post office to post the letters," explains Ann. "But my husband Stephen was incredibly supportive at the time and that really helped," she adds. Shortly afterwards, Stephen, who had been working in the telecoms sector, decided to leave his job and join his wife's fledgling business. He looked after the IT, finance and admin functions which allowed Ann concentrate on the sales and technical side. Her client base began to grow and by 2008, she was able to hire her first employee, Jane. By that time too, she had outgrown the bedroom office and had converted a shed at the bottom of her garden. "There was usually a mad rush in the mornings to get the house cleaned before Jane arrived for work, as she had to walk through the kitchen to get to the office in the garden," recalls Ann with a laugh. "Today much of our work involves helping companies get their products and their processes approved by the regulatory bodies in the countries into which they want to sell their drugs or medical devices. This involves auditing their existing procedures and processes, and identifying gaps which need to be addressed in order to ensure compliance. "But for me, it's not about waving a big stick - it's more about educating the staff about what is required and why. In that way you bring staff with you," insists Ann. She explains too that during a manufacturing process, everything needs to be detailed and documented. Even the process by which the drugs have been made needs to be recorded to ensure full consistency and that each product is of the exact same quality. Likewise, maintaining a sterile environment is critical. The number of air changes per hour in the production area is measured so as to avoid even the slightest potential for contamination to products from air particles. Time lost is money lost in this sector and mistakes can be expensive - not only in monetary terms but in terms of human health. So for Ann quality and patient care are paramount. "Our overall raison d'être is to ensure patient safety and that the medicines that we all buy and consume are fit for purpose. And you just can't compromise on this," says Ann emphatically. "But the sector is a complex one which has traditionally been notoriously reactionary. Some companies can even find themselves in a permanent state of 'fire-fighting' when it comes to getting to grips with regulations," she admits. Building her brand was a major priority for Ann when she started. And like many entrepreneurs, she decided to use her own name - Ann McGee Pharma - to build on her existing profile. While this helped convey a personal touch in the early days, it also had its downsides. Some clients grew to expect to be dealing with her or that she would personally carry out every aspect of their work. What started out as a positive became, over time, unhelpful. So in 2012, she decided to re-brand as McGee Pharma International. "Re-branding allowed me bring in other team members and to focus more on strategy myself and on driving growth in the business," explains Ann. Currently finalising her plans for the future of the business, she wants to grow annual revenues from €1.7m currently to €10m by 2020. Part of this strategy will include establishing a presence in the US. Wisely too, she is keen to ensure this will ensure that the business does not become overly dependent on the performance of any one company or any one economy. She tells me excitedly about other plans for the business and refuses to be drawn just yet on what these are. With a taunting smile, she tells me to "Watch this space". While no one can really be certain as to whether entrepreneurs are born or made, one thing is clear, Ann McGee got a great start in life. Not only because she got a great education, but because her parents were enlightened enough to encourage her to become an independent thinker. Now a successful entrepreneur, she is realising her dream and is helping ensure the quality of medicines available in Ireland and around the world. And that's what I call making a difference. Sunday Indo Business 
