medicine
{ Mary O'Donnell 
    January 23 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/going-to-college-when-study-is-a-question-of-fees-26021414.html }
The biggest issue dominating political debate in Britain at the present time is  the question of university funding, and whether or not students should pay tuition fees.  The British government's contentious 'top-up-fees' proposal is that instead of paying up-front fees, students would have to pay through a loan repayment spread over a  maximum of 25 years. Tuition fees were reintroduced in Britain some years ago, after around 50 years of no fees. But the current proposals will increase the annual fee to around stg£3,000 a year. The 2003/04 figure currently stands at stg£1,150. Graduates' repayments would be linked to earnings - the less they earned, the less they would pay; the more they earned, the more they would pay. The point being made is that since third-level education greatly enhances an individual's earning opportunities over a lifetime, it is only fair that they should pay back in some way. The counter argument is that these individuals are likely to contribute more through their taxes anyway. Even though we have free tuition fees for first-time undergraduates in Ireland, some students pay for approved courses in publicly funded universities and other third-level colleges. Students who are on a second undergraduate degree are also not covered by the free-tuition-fees scheme. This does not deter some graduates from applying for places in long courses like medicine, dentistry, or veterinary medicine. But the cost involved does deter many from undertaking such a course of study, even though it might be a very good investment in the long run. I was recently asked whether a mature applicant who wished to study medicine needed to apply through CAO. The answer is that in most cases you do, although some colleges like Trinity require mature applicants to apply directly to them as well as applying through CAO. Almost all courses have a quota of places for mature applicants but the numbers may be very small in areas like healthcare. Nursing is an exception with quite generous quotas for mature applicants who have their own separate entry codes. It is important to make a distinction between a mature applicant, and an applicant to an undergraduate course who is already a graduate of another course. Mature applicants are those who are 23 or over by the January preceding college entry. They are usually considered on grounds other than school-leaving results. Mature applicants who are first-time undergraduates - in other words, have not done a degree before - are entitled to free fees. But if a mature applicant to medicine has already completed, for example, a science degree, he or she would have to pay fees for the second course. Applicants interested in Veterinary Medicine in UCD, the only course in Veterinary medicine in Ireland, will notice that there are two entry codes. One is for students applying on the grounds of school-leaving examinations, and the other is for graduate applicants. Veterinary Medicine is exceptional in that it does not consider mature applicants on the basis of age alone. But it does hold a small quota of places for graduates of relevant disciplines under this graduate entry code. Mature applicants to medicine, even if they are graduates of another course, apply under the normal UCD undergraduate code. No serious mature applicant to any course - and particularly highly competitive courses like medicine - would consider applying without first contacting the college in question to see what exactly the college is looking for in a mature or graduate applicant. It is worth reminding prospective mature applicants of the useful publication: 
Guide for Mature Students 2004: Entry to Fulltime Third-Level Courses which is available free of charge from Siobhan Corcoran, CDU, Sundrive Rd, Crumlin, Dublin 12, Ph: 01-4020427. Information day: Today, Colaiste Dhulaigh, Coolock, Dublin 17, conducts an open day with sessions designated for its science and technology courses, and its art and design courses. Colaiste Dhulaigh is a college of further education of the City of Dublin VEC. Its courses lead to FETAC qualifications, and many of them have arrangements to continue programmes to degree level in British universities. 
