medicine
{ Mary O' Donnell 
    September 28 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/going-to-college-whats-up-doc--25932773.html }
Just a few weeks ago, when the first round of CAO offers appeared in August, there was general shock, and in many cases disappointment, at the levels of competition for entry to medical degree programmes. Just a few weeks ago, when the first round of CAO offers appeared in August, there was general shock, and in many cases disappointment, at the levels of competition for entry to medical degree programmes. In 2002, points ranged from 550-570, and were about as high as anybody feared they might get. In 2003, however, they rose by 10 or 15 points to a band from 565* to 570 in the five colleges offering medical degree programmes, UCD, UCC, NUI Galway, and RCSI and Trinity. Some applicants with points as high as 565 failed to get a place on undergraduate medical degree programmes in most colleges. This increase in points was the result of two things. First, there was an increase in the number of applicants to medicine and, second, there was an increase this year in the numbers of A1s awarded in higher level Leaving Certificate papers, particularly in the science subjects. The number of places available to Irish and other EU applicants in medicine throughout the five medical schools remained the same at about 340. Although, in reality, there were as many successful applicants to medicine as there had been in previous years, the increase in applicants and the fact that many unsuccessful applicants had points as good as and better than last year's successful applicants meant there were more disappointed applicants to medicine than ever. The whole question, too, of the numbers of students from outside the EU in Irish medical schools came up for discussion, although it was pointed out that the enormous fees paid by these students helped to keep medical schools financially viable. The numbers of Irish and other EU students in medicine is controlled by the Higher Education Authority. The Minister for Education and Science announced in August a proposal to examine the delivery of medical education and training in this country, with a view to converting medicine and other healthcare degrees into postgraduate programmes. Last week, the Minister, Mr Noel Dempsey, and his ministerial colleague, Mr Micheal Martin, Minister for Health and Children, announced that they were jointly establishing a Working Group on 
Undergraduate Medical Education and Training to make recommendations on the organisation and delivery of high quality training for doctors in Ireland. The Working Group, which will be chaired by the retired president of the NUI Galway, Professor Patrick Fottrell, will make particular reference to course curriculum/syllabus, teaching methods and delivery mechanisms, professionalisation of undergraduate medical teaching, and the scope for the promotion of greater interdisciplinary working between professionals through the development of joint programmes at the initial stages of undergraduate training. Many people, in medical education, in the medical community generally, and in career guidance, would welcome changes in the structure of medical education. Most people would agree that school leavers have very little real idea of what they would like to do as a career for the rest of their lives and that generally they benefit from the opportunity to progress towards a specific vocational area, making more informed choices after they have started on a widebased programme. Prospective applicants to medicine in the next year or two, however, will wonder how any proposed changes will affect them, and will be seeking answers to the following questions. * When will the working group report its findings? * Will university medical schools be required to implement the findings? * How long would it take the medical schools to set up whatever changes were proposed? * How long might it take students to qualify as a doctor or other healthcare professional under a possible postgraduate medical school option? * If medical courses were converted to postgraduate degree programmes, would candidates have to pay fees? (At present postgraduate programmes are not covered by the free tuition fees scheme). In Ireland's five medical schools, medicine is a five or six-year undergraduate programme. In UCC, a five-year programme has been in operation for a number of years. UCD is introducing a five-year programme over a phased period. The Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) also offers both a five and six year option, as it, too, moves towards a five-year programme for all students. Trinity College Dublin has just announced that it will introduce a five year medical degree option in 2004, when it is envisaged that between 40% and 50% of students will take a five-year degree. The plan is that all students entering medicine in Trinity in 2005 will be embarking on a five-year undergraduate programme. 
