medicine
{  
    July 11 2011 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/how-medications-changed-to-fit-a-new-breed-of-patient-26750669.html }
IF YOU went to see your GP 20 years ago, chances are you'd have left the surgery clutching a prescription for antibiotics or an inhaler. Today, however, heart disease and anti-depressant medication account for a massive percentage of the medication dispensed by chemists, and the largest spends nationally. So what's changed? Is heart disease more common and has asthma somehow disappeared? No, say the experts. What's happened is that heart disease is now far better recognised and treated earlier than it was 20 years ago, while there's also much more awareness of contributing factors such as cholesterol and high blood pressure. On top of that, depression has lost much of the social stigma that, in the past, would have kept it hidden, so patients are more willing to disclose problems to their doctors and seek effective treatment. Antibiotics Back in the 1990s, antibiotics were frequently prescribed by doctors. In some cases, antibiotics such as Penbritin were prescribed even when doctors merely suspected the nature of the problem, says Darragh O'Loughlin, president of the Irish Pharmacy Union. "Today they wouldn't prescribe unless they were sure a person has an infection." Doctors' attitudes have changed in line with the growing resistance to antibiotics, agrees Dr Harry Barry, a GP for more than three decades. "Doctors are definitely changing their pattern because of fears about resistance developing to them. We're trying to encourage patients to wait and see for a day or two before starting an antibiotic." Asthma Asthma was another very big issue for GPs in the 1990s, recalls Dr Barry. "We were very focused on identifying and treating children with asthma. Inhalers were being given to children. For example, treatment inhalers like Salbutamol or Ventolin or preventative inhalers such as Becotide would have been quite commonly prescribed at that time. "The perception among specialists now is that such broncho-dilators were introduced too quickly." While asthma is still a big issue today, treatments have altered quite a bit. There's been a shift too in the way it's diagnosed -- doctors won't tend to diagnose it in children until after the age of five. "What may be changing is the technical definition of asthma," says Harry Barry, "a redefining of what asthma is." preventative medicine "Today patients are treated to prevent problems. So, for example, diabetes patients get an ACE inhibitor, which reduces blood pressure, and a statin to reduce cholesterol," explains Darragh O'Loughlin. "Preventative medicine is much more a feature of prescriptions now than it would have been 20 years ago. That's why the cardiovascular category has become so big -- the preventative approach treats a lot more people in order to reduce the overall number of deaths." aspirin and statins The biggest changes he's seen in his career, says Dr Barry, are "the incredible modernisation in the treatment of ischemic heart disease (angina) and heart failure". Central to that is the arrival of statins. "The experts told us that if we treated the risk factors of the heart disease aggressively, we'd reduce the risk of heart attack, so now we're checking cholesterol a lot more. "If a person has angina they will be given blood-thinning drugs like aspirin and cholesterol-lowering drugs like Lipitor, which is a statin." When statins were first introduced back in the 1990s, they tended to be prescribed for patients with very high cholesterol levels. Today, however, they're often the standard treatment for anyone who has had a heart attack and are often started in patients with lower cholesterol levels. There's been a huge increase in the use of statins by GPs, and Dr Barry worries that in some cases they might be over-prescribed. "Perhaps we're using too many statins -- perhaps we're giving them to people who do not really have enough of a risk profile." Statins can have side-effects like muscle pains or an increase in the level of liver enzymes and, at certain levels, he warns, can damage the liver. According to the latest figures from the HSE, cardiovascular medication accounts for slightly more than 23pc of the drugs prescribed in the HSE General Medical Services Scheme, which in 2009 spent around €292m on these drugs. diabetes Diabetes and its links to higher risk of heart attack and stroke is another serious issue for modern doctors, says Dr Barry. "We now know that if you're a diabetic you have a much higher risk of heart attack or stroke. We're more conscious of diabetes now because of the obesity epidemic and also the ageing population, and we're looking out more for it. Our increasingly sedentary lifestyle and tendency to eat the wrong foods and not exercise is contributing to obesity, which in turn is contributing to increased levels of diabetes." anti-depressants The most up-to-date statistics from the HSE's General Medical Scheme show that after cardiovascular medication, problems with the nervous system are the second largest issue it has to deal with. In 2009, when all drugs for the nervous system, such as anti-depressants, were grouped together they accounted for 21pc of drugs prescribed, or €268.5m in GMS spend. Dr Barry is not surprised -- he's noticed his mental health consultations have risen steadily over the years and says they now constitute a sizeable one-third of his practice. "There has been an increase in the diagnosis of depression and an increase in the amount of anti-depression medication prescribed over the last 20 years," he points out. Common anti-depressants in 1990s were Prozac, he says. Now Lexapro, which he describes as a more modern and powerful form of Prozac, is more commonly prescribed. "There has been a move away from the anti-depressants of 20 years ago," agrees Rory O'Donnell, vice president of the Irish Pharmaceutical Union. That's because more modern versions have fewer side effects. The downside is that these newer medicines coming onto the market tend to be more expensive, which accounts for why they are such a significant part of the annual spend. The rise in GP consultations for conditions like depression is also rooted in changing treatment methods, believes pharmacist Ciara McCabe, of McCabe's chemist chain. "In the past 20 years the way mental illness is treated has changed. People were hospitalised for more types of mental illness -- now they're treated in the community for conditions like depression or anxiety." are modern drugs better? Yes, says O'Loughlin, who believes modern drugs -- such as those for blood pressure, depression and gastrointestinal problems -- are better, safer and cheaper than their predecessors. More good news for patients is that in the last 20 years, doctors and pharmacists have become increasingly cautious about new medicines. "They are demanding safer medicines and more evidence that medicines are safe before prescribing them," he declares. On top of that, many medicines have become increasingly affordable as they come off patent. "The Department of Health brought the price of medicine down, while a lot of drugs are out of patent now," says Liam Lynch, a GP for 30 years and former president of the Irish Medical Organisation. "They become generic and thus cheaper, which means that more people are able to afford prescriptions for Lipitor and other statins, which would have been quite expensive when they were still in patent." However, O'Loughlin says, patients requiring new, higher-end medications for conditions like cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, cystic fibrosis and multiple sclerosis face huge bills, as these drugs are still extremely expensive. So what of the future? Will heart medication remain at the top of the list? Ciara McCabe predicts that cancer medication will be the big new trend coming down the track, while Alzheimer's medication will also improve. Health & Living 
