medicine
{  
    January 25 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/medicine-disposal-scheme-takes-off-27050453.html }
The Dispose of Unused Medicines Properly (DUMP) campaign, which has been organised by the HSE with the community pharmacists in Cork and Kerry, will start this week (January 22) and run in participating pharmacies until March 5, 2007.More than 200 pharmacies are participating in the campaign and are actively encouraging people to return unwanted or out of date med The ‘Dispose of Unused Medicines Properly’ (DUMP) campaign, which has been organised by the HSE with the community pharmacists in Cork and Kerry, will start this week (January 22) and run in participating pharmacies until March 5, 2007. More than 200 pharmacies are participating in the campaign and are actively encouraging people to return unwanted or out of date medicine to them so that it can be disposed of safely and properly. Also, older people or someone with an ongoing illness can often have large amounts of medicine at home. Whatever the reason, the HSE would urge householders to take this opportunity to dispose of these unwanted prescription or over the counter medicines safely. Storing this medication at home can pose a hazard and put people at risk of accidental poisonings (particularly in children), overdose suicide attempts, inappropriate sharing of medicines and damage to the environment (due to the incorrect dumping of unwanted or out-of-date medicines). Louise Creed, HSE South Community Care pharmacist said: “We would strongly urge people to take this opportunity to get rid of out of date or unused medicines. Medication can pose a real hazard in the home, particularly to children or other vulnerable people.” Most households will always have a quantity of medicine in their home and it is important that it is stored correctly and out of reach of children or other vulnerable people. Keep all medicines, even seemingly harmless medicines, well out of reach and sight of children on a high shelf or in a locked press. Remember that grandparents and older people are more likely to have medication in their homes, so when visiting their house, make sure all medicines are out of children’s reach. Willie Collins, Drug & Alcohol Services co-ordinator, HSE South, said: “The pharmacies involved have all embraced the campaign and are actively encouraging people to return unwanted or out of date medicines to them. “I cannot emphasise strongly enough how important it is to ensure these medicines are disposed of properly and safely. “Please take some time to check out what’s in your cabinets and avail of this free service over the coming weeks.” 
