medicine
{ Katherine Donnelly, Ralph Riegel and Brian McDonald 
    August 16 2007 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/delight-for-clever-eleven-who-picked-up-eight-a1-grades-each-26311715.html }
FOR 11 Leaving Certificate students yesterday, the results could hardly have been better. The six boys and five girls produced the best scores in the country - eight higher level A1s apiece. Seven students want to study medicine. Three were from Cork, including Marie O'Donovan (17), of Colaiste Choilm, Ballincollig, who was thrilled that she can now study pharmacy in UCC. "I didn't expect that kind of score and I don't think anyone ever does," she said. Tony Buckley (18), from Cork's Christian Brothers College (CBC), was delighted that he can undertake his "dream" course in mathematical science in UCC. Antoinette O'Connor (17), from Coachford Community College, was celebrating that her eight A1s mean she can study medicine at UCC. Former Tipperary minor hurler Philip Donnellan (18), of Borrisokane Community College, Co Tipperary, passed up a chance to play on the under-21s so he could study, but, with eight A1s, it was worth it. His next goal is a degree in chemical and process engineering in UCC. Karen O'Mahony, Sackville, Ardfert and Presentation Secondary School,Tralee, Co Kerry, destined for Medicine in UCC, admits that while she worked hard after the "mocks", she only expected five A1s. Eamon Keane (19) Salesian Secondary School, Celbridge, Co Kildare, who is planning to study medicine in UCD, "certainly wasn't convinced" he had an A1 in English, Physics or French. He did - and five more. Timmy O'Hanrahan (18) of St Macartan's College, Monaghan, was an "excellent student", and great all rounder", according to principal Ray McHugh, and now plans to study aeronautical engineering at Queen's University, Belfast. Cornelia Carey (17) got her results at the Dominican College Taylor's Hill, Galway, but waited until she was home at Uggool, Moycullen, before opening them. She has decided to abandon her idea to take a year out and plans to study medicine in NUI Galway. Patrick Cullinane (18), of Turloughmore, Co Galway, repeated the Leaving Cert in Yeats College, Galway, because the 560 points he achieved last year left him short for medicine in NUI Galway. Now he has no such difficulty. Michael Conroy (18), of Mount Merrion and Blackrock College, Dublin, plans to follow his mother Lelia into medicine in UCD. Today he joins 34 other Blackrock College school-leavers on a trip to South Africa to help build three day care centres for up to 100 orphaned children. Russian-born Martina Feyzrakhmanova (18), of Castleknock Community College, who plans to study medicine at TCD, made it the perfect 11. The Institute of Education, a well known Dublin "grind school" was last night celebrating at least five students with 7 A1s and 16 with six A1s. President McAleese congratulated all those who received Leaving Certificate results. 
