medicine
{  
    October 29 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/applying-for-postgraduate-medicine-26488266.html }
The 2009 application season opens on Monday next, November 3. In this time of rising fees, it is consoling that the CAO fees remain the same as 2008. The fee is €45 for applications received online or by post by February 1, 2009. There is a discounted rate of €35 for applications received online by January 20. Late applications, up to May 1, cost €70 online and €90 for paper applications. Inevitably, most people do not make their application until close to the February 1 deadline. The discounted rate encourages students to apply early. Q: Last week's column referred to the new selection tests for undergraduate medicine. Is this test different to the selection test for entry to postgraduate medicine? A: Yes, they are separate tests. The selection test for undergraduate medicine is called the HPAT (Health Professional Admission Test) and will be used in conjunction with the school leaving examination. It concentrates on logical reasoning and problem solving, interpersonal understanding, and non-verbal reasoning. Graduates applying to the separate, four-year graduate-entry medicine courses -- offered in four medical schools (UCC, UCD, UL and RCSI) -- will sit the GAMSAT (Graduate Medical School Admissions Test). The GAMSAT test consists of three elements: (1) reasoning in humanities and social sciences, (2) written communication and (3) reasoning in biological and physical sciences. Information provided on the GAMSAT website, (www.gamsat-ie.org), stresses that a science degree is not a prerequisite, but success in GAMSAT is not likely without knowledge of the biological and physical sciences to GCSE A level or first-year university standard. Figures in UCD indicate that about two-thirds of entrants to graduate medicine held science degrees. Graduate entrants to veterinary medicine in UCD must also sit the GAMSAT. Both the HPAT and GAMSAT have been developed by the Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER) and adapted to suit Irish conditions. Some people refer to these tests as aptitude tests, but the letter 'A' in HPAT and in GAMSAT stands for admissions. In a new development this year, UCD plans to use an ACER admissions test for mature applicants to its arts faculty. Up to now, mature applicants to arts in UCD have been assessed largely on the basis of a personal written statement. The university does not believe that this allows all applicants to present themselves well, and says the admission test will provide a more even playing field. The university stresses that it is anxious to get people in, not to keep them out. Details of the test will be available from mid-November at www.msap.acer.edu.au. There is a fee of €95 per candidate for the HPAT, and €65 for the MSAP test for mature applicants to arts in UCD, and €300 for the GAMSAT. UCD will hold a series of information mornings for mature student applicants in the UCD welcome centre from Thursday, November 6. The first session is fully booked, but further sessions will be held on Wednesday, December 3 and Thursday, January 15. 
