medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan and Senan Molony 
    February 29 2008 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/pharmacies-issue-final-plea-in-medical-card-row-26426689.html }
Patients who need prescriptions filled are unlikely to face disruption from tomorrow -- despite the controversial new payment scheme for pharmacists coming into effect. The Irish Pharmacy Union (IPU), which represents the profession, appealed yesterday evening to pharmacists to continue dispensing medicines to medical card holders and private patients under the Drugs Payments Scheme. Individual pharmacists, however, are not bound by union rule and are free to pursue any action they see fit. From tomorrow, the Health Service Executive will cut the wholesale price of drugs paid to pharmacies from 18pc to 7pc as part of an overall move to reduce the drugs bill by €100m a year. Patients who pay for their medicines should also see a reduction of 8pc in prices at the counter from tomorrow -- for example a saving of nearly €20 in the cost of the stomach ulcer medicine Losec. Angry pharmacists have warned the measures will threaten viability and may lead to closures and job losses. However, any impact on customers is expected to be some time away. Health Minister Mary Harney also assured members of the public the "HSE would ensure they were not left without medicines". Medical card holders would not be forced to pay. The HSE said: "It is becoming clear that most pharmacists do not intend to disrupt medicine supplies to patients". Two pharmacies had indicated they will be taking some protest action. A spokesman said it has a list of pharmacies continuing normal services and if anyone has problem getting a prescription filled they should call a HSE information line 1850 24 1850 running from 8am to 8pm. Two hundred anxious callers have made contact already. In a further blow to pharmacists, the body representing big drugs firms here said it supported the HSE move to cut wholesale drug prices. The Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association, in a letter to Oireachtas members, said said it would do everything to ensure the supply of medicines is not affected from tomorrow. The IPU, however, repeated yesterday that the new cuts could lead to the permanent closure of many pharmacies over time. If some pharmacists come under financial pressure it could mean they will have to look at reducing opening hours, cut staff and stop providing special medication packs for people who have difficulty taking medicines. The first indication of the financial impact will become clear in April when pharmacists get their payments for services provided in March. Pharmacists are also to hold a mass rally in Dublin on Wednesday organised by the IPU. A spokesperson said all chemists have been urged to make alternative arrangements if they are coming to the city. The IPU is also to go the High Court on Monday to seek a date for a hearing of a legal challenge to the HSE action which they claim is a breach of contract. Speaking in the Dail, Health Minister Mary Harney said there was a 17.8pc mark-up on wholesale medicines, which was "excessive" and ranked as the highest margin in Europe. Fine Gael Health spokesman Dr James Reilly said the HSE was engaged in unilateral action and was attempting to bully pharmacists into accepting lower fees. He said the minister should first allow an independent body, headed by Sean Dorgan, to come its own conclusions on the effort to impose changes to the contracts of community pharmacists. 
