medicine
{  
    April 18 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/alternative-medicine-27372346.html }
YOU are stressed out. You have a constant nagging headache. You feel depressed. You want to quit smoking. What do you do? Call the doctor? YOU are stressed out. You have a constant nagging headache. You feel depressed. You want to quit smoking. What do you do? Call the doctor? Nine times out of ten you don't. Either you are sceptical and don't trust them or you fear that he or she will look at you and send you on your way with a prescription, so you avoid going altogether. You grin and bear it. You think "ah sure I'll be grand". But you know deep down that you are not. More and more people are deciding to seek out practitioners of alternative medicine in order to cure themselves of a range ailments and illnesses, many of them caused by Ireland's number one killer ‹ stress. Alternative therapies differ distinctly from those of the average GP in that they encompass healing solutions that are channelled through the body, mind and even the spirit! Treatment and approach generally tends to differ greatly. For example, according to alternative medicinal practitioners world-wide, lavender is a herb unmatched by modern pharmaceuticals and should be the first pick for your herbal medicine cabinet. For various ailments there are many different remedies on offer in various centres throughout Kerry and bookings are flowing in for treatments such as acupuncture, reiki and aromatherapy. Acupuncture is an ancient traditional Chinese treatment using fine needles which stimulate invisible lines of energy. It is a popular and successful treatment in assisting people with kicking the habit of smoking when the patches and the chewing gum just don't seem to relieve the seemingly unquenchable cravings for nicotine. Reflexology is another popular therapy. It revolves around pressure points located in the feet which balance the whole body. Reflexologists believe that these pressure points are connected to specific organs in the body and specific manipulation of a given area can benefit the related organ. If your feet are very ticklish maybe you should avoid this one. Although if you manage to last through the first couple of seconds the tickles subside and the sheer pleasure is astounding. Massage is, as most people are aware, very beneficial to the body and the mind, in that it stimulates blood flow and promotes a sense of well being. Indian head massages are becoming increasingly popular with pregnant women who experience migraine. This form of massage was used by the Indians in ancient times and as well as banishing torturous migraines it's a marvellous stress buster and energy booster. Reiki is fast becoming a therapy in which people are finding solace. The word Reiki is Japanese, rei meaning universal and ki meaning life-force. Reiki is believed to accelerate the body's ability to heal and open the mind and body to the causes of disease and pain. One session can last an hour. Loose clothing is worn whilst the patient lies horizontally. The Reiki Master places his or her hands just above the body. The Ki or life force passes through the practitioner, who acts as a channel to the patient. In order for Reiki to work you must be open to being healed. In other words, no sceptics here please. The Reiki practitioner must go through three stages of training to become a Master which requires initiation by an actual Reiki Master. This is a perfectly safe and non invasive treatment which helps a person to relax and take charge of their own healing. Another treatment which is available is Bio Energy. This is similar to Reiki in that it works on a client's energy system. It can benefit people who may have been experiencing problems in the mind. Esoteric healing is another choice for which people are opting. It is a deeper form of healing, however, as it uses soul to soul connection between the practitioner and the client. In order for this treatment to be effective the session begins with a meditation exercise to relax the patient. This is holistic healing at it's best as this relaxed state paves the way for the connection of body, soul and mind. Holistic healers believe that this process is essential for the full recovery of a patient. Another alternative medicine option is to take a trip to a Chinese traditional medicine practitioner. Here, before any treatment is administered, a full and thorough diagnosis must take place. This examination will include a tongue and pulse check and must be carried out under the auspices of a traditional Chinese medicine practitioner. One practitioner spoke the following words to me while I was researching this piece: "Download your computer, download your mind, relax mind and body, in peace and quiet". I almost went into a trance as she spoke to me. There is definitely something in it. All I need to decide now is which treatment to go for. Perhaps a session of each wouldn't go astray. 
