medicine
{  
    October 16 2008 10:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/court-rules-cuts-were-unlawful-27128059.html }
PHARMACISTS from County Louth have welcomed a recent High Court judgment which found that the Health Service Executive (HSE) and the Department of Health and Children had breached pharmacists' contracts by cutting payments to pharmacists. A meeting was held in the Newgrange Hotel in Navan, Co Meath to consider the implications of the recent High Court judgment on a case taken by Hickeys Pharmacies. Welcoming the Judgment, IPU Spokesperson Kathy Maher said: ' We would now expect the HSE to repay pharmacists what they are owed. The court has ruled that this cut in payments was unlawful and should not have been made in the first place.' Ms Maher continued, 'Once the HSE re-instates pharmacists' payment arrangements and in doing so honours pharmacists' contracts, there will be an opportunity for pharmacists and the HSE to begin talks on important issues such as how savings can be made on the medicines bill. We recognise that this is an issue for the Government and for our patients and therefore we are anxious to get talks underway on a new pharmacy contract as soon as possible.' Ms Liz Hoctor, President of the Irish Pharmacy Union, the representative body for community pharmacists, told the meeting that Pharmacists are experts in medicines. 'We have made many proposals to the HSE on how savings can be made on medicines without damaging the service that we provide to patients. For example, significant savings could be made every year if the HSE enabled pharmacists to offer the patient the choice of a cheaper generic medicine, instead of a more expensive brand. Generic substitution is used in most other European countries to save money for both the State and patients.' Ms Hoctor also highlighted the massive wastage of medicines as an area where savings could be made. 'Pharmacists can advise the patients on how to get the maximum benefit from the medicines they take. Initiatives around the quality use of medicines would help the HSE tackle medicines wastage in a way that also improves patients' health.' She said that the union viewed the recent High Court decision as an opportunity to move forward. She said that she hoped that the HSE and the Department of Health would see the decision in a similar light and that all sides would now work together in a spirit of partnership to consider issues of concern to all sides.' 
