medicine
{ Barbara Harding 
    April 03 2008 08:01 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/chemical-balance-26434936.html }
Not all roads from a pharmacy degree lead to the local chemist counter — graduates have a variety of career opportunities to choose from There are numerous professional opportunities for those who pursue a career in pharmacy. Some graduates enter community pharmacy and others work in hospitals or industrial pharmaceutical companies. Meanwhile, advisors such as Orla Sheehan lecture and educate colleagues on the importance of medicine safety. In recent years, she has also branched out and used her advisory experience to launch the charity Tuesday’s Child, to create awareness of the plight of impoverished children in Bosnia, Brazil and Gaza among others. Sheehan’s career in pharmacy began in 1990, after she completed a three-year degree at King’s College, London. Upon graduation, she undertook a one-year pre-registration training course in the pharmacy department of St George’s Hospital (one of the biggest teaching hospitals in the UK) before embarking on a master’s degree, which focused on the pharmaceutical care of premature babies in neo-natal intensive care. It was here her career began to gain pace. Sheehan became a basic grade pharmacist for 18 months at Hammersmith Hospital before moving to the Royal Infirmary in Edinburgh, where she was responsible for 4,000 beds throughout the Lothian region. In 1997, following a short spell at the Royal Hospital in Belfast, she moved to Dublin to work as an advisor to general practitioners and pharmacies in the National Medicine Information Centre at St James’s Hospital. “A lot of my training involved working with sick children, so I began lecturing in medicine safety for vulnerable populations and specialised in areas such as drugs, pregnancy, breastfeeding and the elderly,” she explains. Throughout this period, Sheehan became particularly interested in paediatric pharmacy, specialising in the long-term care of children with chronic and terminal illnesses. Over the course of the next decade, she published extensive research on the topic. This included her later work on national strategies that focused specifically on promoting safe and effective use of medicines for all children living in Ireland, regardless of their background or circumstance. Sheehan believes the role of the pharmacist (in its many guises) is paramount to modern medicine and training is highly focused in order to prevent errors from occurring when administering dosages to patients — particularly minors. “It’s extremely important we ensure prescribed medicines are safe for patients’ use, particularly children, as 50pc of medicines for minors are unlicensed and clinical trials can only be conducted on adults,” she explains. “My remit has always been to encourage pharmacists to be the best they can be through further education and training.” In 2000, Sheehan took this challenge a step further when she established a consultancy company and began lecturing on medicine safety. One of her main clients was the Irish Centre for Continuing Pharmaceutical Education, and in 2003, she was appointed national director. Sheehan believes a career in pharmacy can be quite lucrative in Ireland or abroad, depending on the avenue you wish to pursue as the salary scale varies in each sector. She says the main employer in Ireland is community pharmacy, which has the potential to be lucrative if you’re a pharmacy contractor, although not everybody wants to run their own business. A world apart One of Sheehan’s greatest professional feats to date occurred following a trip to Medjugorje, Bosnia in 2006, where she witnessed the depths of poverty local children were living in. “I met a lady who had been working in Bosnia since the war ended and she took me to some of the schools and orphanages where the lack of resources for the children broke my heart. It’s the same story in Gaza, where children are caught up in adult wars. I felt compelled to help.” Sheehan launched Tuesday’s Child on her return home, to raise money so children across the globe can live healthy lives, regardless of their background. All of the funds raised go directly to children’s projects and orphanages. The charity recently launched Tuesday’s Child — the album, thanks to the contributions of celebrities such as Snow Patrol, Westlife, Kila, Mary Black and Liam Ó Maonlaí. www.tuesdayschild.ie © Whitespace Ltd 2008 All content copyright 2008, Whitespace Publishing Agency — all rights reserved Email: 
jobs&careers@whitespace.ie © Whitespace Ltd 2008 
