medicine
{ Mary O Donnell 
    January 13 2009 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/it-pays-to-get-cao-applications-in-early-26505578.html }
Although February 1 is the normal closing date for CAO application, it pays to apply online by next Tuesday, January 20. Applicants who do so are entitled to a €10 discount on the normal €45 fee if they apply by 5.15pm on this date. Many thousands of applicants have already done so, so the message of the benefit of earlier application is getting through. All applicants to undergraduate medicine in any of the five medical schools, and mature applicants to arts or social science degrees in UCC or UCD, should also pay special attention to this date (January 20). This year, as many interested applicants will know, applicants to undergraduate medicine will be required to sit a special entrance exam, the HPAT (Health Professionals Admission Test) the results of which will be used in addition to their Leaving Certificate points. They must first apply online to CAO and they should then register for this test for a fee of €95 by midnight on January 20. Although it will be still possible to register late, there will be an additional fee of €50 after January 20 up to midnight on February 1. January 20 should be noted by mature applicants to arts or social science courses in UCC or UCD, as they are also required to sit an entrance test this year -- the MSAP (Mature Students' Admission Pathway) test. Registration for this test must also be made by midnight January 20 for a €65 fee. Late registration (midnight on February 1) will cost an additional €30. The only sitting of the HPAT or the MSAP will take place on Saturday 14 February at centres around the country. Applicants to graduate entry into medicine or veterinary medicine are the third category of applicant who must register for a selection test this year. These will typically be graduates already, or are people who will take their honours degree exams. Graduates applying to the separate four-year graduate entry medicine courses offered in four medical schools (UCC, UCD, UL and RCSI) or the graduate entry route to veterinary medicine in UCD, will be required to sit the GAMSAT (Graduate Medical School Admissions Test) on March 21 at selected centres in Cork, Dublin, or Limerick. The closing date for registration to sit the GAMSAT is February 3 by 5.15pm and the fee is €300. It is also possible to take the GAMSAT in London or Melbourne. Why Melbourne, some may ask? The answer is that the GAMSAT is developed by the Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER), as indeed are the HPAT and the MSAP. It is not certain yet how these new tests will affect the numbers of applications to the courses in question. The fee for the test for graduate applicants to medicine and veterinary medicine is very steep at €300, but even the €95 fee for the HPAT and €65 for MSAP may deter some prospective applicants. Add to that the issue referred to last month in this column, of the concern expressed by the Institute of Guidance Counsellors at the proliferation of 'preparation courses' for the newly introduced HPAT-Ireland, which the colleges and ACER felt were unnecessary. It is ironic that the new undergraduate medical selection procedures were introduced to reduce the stress on applicants, but they may end up adding to the cost and stress overall, and perhaps may exclude some candidates from applying. Open days and information sessions, today Tuesday January 13. Trinity College hosts two special information sessions for mature applicants to business and language courses, and to English courses, both at 12 noon, in the arts block today. Tonight, there is a CAO information session for parents and students in the Tipperary Institute on their Clonmel campus from 6pm-8pm, with another session tomorrow Wednesday 14 January, at the Tipperary Institute's Thurles campus, from 6pm- 8pm. 
