medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent 
    October 16 2012 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/medicines-will-cost-less-after-new-deal-to-save-state-400m-28819559.html }
THE price of hundreds of medicines will drop from the beginning of next month, bringing some relief for hard-pressed private patients. The move follows a new deal between drug companies and the Department of Health which will generate €400m in savings for the State over the next three years. Private patients will also pay less for many drugs in pharmacies, but a full list of the price cuts will not be available until at least the end of this week. The Health Service Executive (HSE) and individual drug companies are reviewing the implications of the agreement worked out with the Irish Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Association (IPHA). A key part of the deal includes an assurance that new hi-tech medicines will be made available to patients once they are deemed cost-effective. The biggest reductions will come in the price of what are known as off-patent medicines -- drugs that were once produced under an exclusive licence which has since expired. Under the new deal, once the patent expires, the wholesale price will reduce to 70pc of the original. After a further 12 months it will reduce to 50pc.  Concerned Medicines for which the patent has already expired will be reduced to 60pc of the original price by November 1. This will be followed by a further reduction to 50pc of the original price to the wholesaler 12 months later. A review of 400 patented medicines is also under way, with average savings of 16pc due to come into effect on November 1. However, this does not apply to the hundreds of medicines made available through state schemes since 2006. Rory O' Donnell, president of the Irish Pharmacy Union (IPU), said pharmacists were concerned at the short notice as they would still have stocks in place on November 1 which they bought at the higher cost. He told the Irish Independent that pharmacists would pass on the price reductions to patients. Pharmacists can charge a mark-up of around 50pc as well as a dispensing fee on top of the wholesale price. Junior health minister Alex White said: "The current cost of drugs in our health system at over €2bn per year represents a major challenge. "However, the value of life-saving, life-enhancing drugs to patients is incalculable. The importance of this new deal to the State and to patients alike will be felt well into the future." An agreement on reductions in the cost of generic drugs, which are particularly expensive, has yet to be reached. Irish Independent 
