medicine
{  
    November 11 2014 09:06 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/health-wellbeing/rude-health-curing-wild-oatsfor-a-rash-problem-30735193.html }
My plan to bring you a little bit more leigheas as Gaeilge has met with roaring approval. The dictionary has been ordered from Daidi na Nollag and already I am being helped out with some splendid ideas from readers. Seosaimhin writes to tell me that in our native language, the illness is 'on the person'.  This differs from English where the patient and the illness merge into the same thing. She suggests that this a very important distinction, and I quite agree. Instead of doctors talking about the red-haired diabetic in the middle-right-hand bed on the last ward on the left, we have to speak about the person who has the diaibeiteas and the gruaig rua on them in the middle-right-hand bed on the last ward on the left. She lends me two nice examples for this week's tutorial. When you have a cold on you, the appropriate expression to bring to your doctor is, "Ta slaighdan orm." And if things are a bit bleaker, say a relative is visited by the black dog of a mood disorder, you can tell the doctor, "Ta an galar dubhach air" - he has the depression on him.  Medical textbook as Gaeilge Another kind reader tells me that there was once a medical textbook that was written entirely in Irish. It was published by the government office for the promotion of the national language back in 1949, and the title was An Cholann Bheo. This to me either means the live heifer or the principal of life. You see now why I need so much help. It was written by a Ballymena man, Professor Michael MacConaill, who was professor of anatomy at University College Cork from 1942 until 1973. He was also a member of the defence forces and would occasionally lecture his medical students in military uniform. Professor MacConaill spoke eight languages fluently and had a particular fondness for Irish. His knowledge of human joints was vast. He published papers and books on the lubrication and movement of joints, and his international expertise was such that he was asked to contribute a chapter on the subject to the Encyclopaedia Britannica. An Cholann Bheo may be the only textbook of medicine in the Irish language and very few copies survive. My information is that the libraries of University College Dublin, Trinity College Dublin and St Patrick's College in Drumcondra have copies, and I'm sure the National Library of Ireland would have one too. Now that the word is out, I could be joining a long queue. Heartburn battle  The bus stops are plastered this month with advertisements for anti-stomach acid medicine Zantac, as a new battle takes place for the hearts and heartburns of Irish patients. It's a medicine that brings back happy memories. When I was a young fellow with a first stethoscope around my neck, a new generation of stomach ulcer medicines had been around for less than a decade. First we had Tagamet (cimetidine)which cornered the market, and this was soon followed by Zantac (ranitidine) a medicine from the same family, whose common surname was H2 Receptor Antagonist. They were both wonderful advances over existing antacid liquids in the management of acid-related stomach conditions. Over time, it became clear that many ulcerative conditions were caused by a bacterium called helicobacter pylori. Many patients were able to eradicate their chronic condition by taking long courses of antibiotics along with anti-ulcer medications. Another new family of acid-blocking medicines known as proton pump inhibitors - Zoton, Pantoloc and Pariet are examples - then took many of the prescriptions from Tagamet and Zantac. What is happening now is that lower doses of medicines that were once prescription only, have gone on over-the-counter sale at pharmacies. Supermarkets have some of them too, but in smaller packets only. They can be very effective short-term remedies, but make sure to study the patient leaflets carefully before use. Porridge mix You will know that age of no return. It begins with careful study of ingredients in your daily porridge mix and is confirmed when friends on Facebook start to share recipes for morning gruel with you. Up to recently I had been simmering a brand of Scots porridge that was made up of a mixture of oats and wheat. My recipe is half water, half milk, a single teaspoon of raspberry jam with pips left in, and a rim of cold milk around the bowl. Then our domestic hunter-gatherer started an occasional sojourn to the land of Lidl, where she gathered up pure bags of fine wholegrain rolled oats, known as Oatilicious. My mornings have got even better. Not even a spoonful of medicine is required to make porridge from pure oats go down. I now make the smoothest breakfast in the land and my days of rolling in wheat are over. Disposable razers Speaking of oats, a reader called Willie has been in touch. He was on holiday and forgot his razor. So he went out and bought some disposables. On finishing his morning routine, he looked more plucked than shaved and developed a horrible rash. He saw an advert in the paper for a new face cream (for women, of course) called Aveeno. He looked closer at it and it is made from extract of oats. The name made sense to him, avena being the botanical name for oats. It also jogged his memory. When he was a teenager with a spotty rashy face, his mother used to tell him to rub cold porridge on it. He laughed at her. It was bad enough having to eat it. Well anyway, he tried his mother's remedy the other day and it seems to have worked. Could there be something to it, asks Willie? There certainly could! 'The Doctor's Case' by Dr Maurice Gueret has just been published See drmauricegueret.com Sunday Independent 
