medicine
{  
    August 17 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/making-the-right-choices-concerning-alternative-medicine-27063791.html }
EVER since my youngest days I had an interest in nature and, withthe help of whatever books I could lay hands on, I learned the names ofthe various wild flowers and grasses. My mother, a schoolteacher, was wellversed in nature lore because in her earlier days nature study was a schoolsubject. I recall that she changed my attitude to weeds with the remarkthat a weed was a wild flower in the wrong place. Later on in St Colmans College in Fermoy I became a devotee to chemistry.It was an extension of the interest in nature study. Chemistry broke downthe physical world into the building blocks of which all life and matterwere formed. It unlocked the secrets of the universe and beside those secretsall manufactured articles appeared elementary. When in Maynooth on angling expeditions to the midland lakes I frequentlyenjoyed the companionship of a friend who was a herbalist. He was a realprofessional and, to my mind anyway, knew what was to be known about herbalremedies. His garage was his laboratory and there he crushed and blendedthe raw materials which he dispensed as cures for asthma, ringworm, gallstonesand whatever came his way. If the name pharmacopia was ever apt for a chemicallaboratory it applied to that garage. I frequently accompanied him on his herb-seeking expeditions through thecountryside. He knew the where and the when of the appearance of the herbswhich he needed. Old quarries and undisturbed field corners ranked highin value. The term `reclaiming', then coming into current usage, was anathemato him. Fortunately he did not live to see the harsh judgement of the Irish MedicalBoard on herbal remedies. These are now to be professionally monitored anddispensed only on prescription. If he were alive he would have challengedthat judgement. He would have run off a list of synthesised drugs whichwere long in use in their natural form before chemists ever analysed them. He would have been a doughty champion of St Johns Wort (Hypericum Perforatum)which has been the particular target of the IMB. This has been in use asa herbal medicine in cases of depressive illness for at least 1000 years.I can imagine his delight at recent research which indicated that in 15clinical trials involving over 1000 patients those supplied with a placebo(an inactive alternative) recorded more side effects than those taking theherbal medicine. However, my herbalist friend would not qualify as an out and out fanatic.I think he would be very happy with the knowledge that complementary andorthodox medicine have now joined forces in a new venture by UCD's schoolof physiotherapy. I think he would also accept that there is need formonitoring because a cocktail of herbal remedies and conventional drugsmight well have adverse reactions. One must welcome collaboration between the two sets of professionals whopractise on both sides of the medical spectrum, the orthodox and thealternative. Many on the orthodox front have dismissed the alternativepractitioners as charlatans who at best trade on the credulous mind of theclient or at worst put the health of the client at risk. In reply thealternative group would charge those others with prejudice geared to preservetheir status in the medical hierarchy. Many from the orthodox medical tradition are now accepting alternativetechniques as respectable branches of medicine. This applies particularlyto acupuncture and reflexology which both operate on the concept of pathways,electrical in nature, linking the various physical organs and functions. Acupuncture is a practice popular in the East for around 5,000 years. Theso-called flow points, along which energy is said to circulate in the body,would have been discovered by trial and error. One assumes that reflexologywhich focuses on sensory points in the feet would have developed along similarlines. One assumes that there is a certain factor of faith-healing involved inthe physical manipulations backed up by strong belief in their efficacy.But that same factor of faith-healing is also an ingredient in orthodoxmedicine where there is a psycho-somatic effect. The confidence of the patientin the doctor adds to the effectiveness of the treatment. While the orthodoxmedical tradition admit this they will add that the claims made on thealternative side are more propaganda than evidence. There are now so many forms which fly under the flag of alternative medicinethat choice turns on the flavour of the moment and whatever you are havingyourself. Aromatherapy, Tui Na, Reiki and a host of others with esotericnames and claims. Anyone who visits a health food shop will find shelvesof Royal Jelly, Propolis, Pollen extract, Ginseng, Evening Primrose Oil,Emu Oil, Tea Tree Oil. The supporting literature does go well over the top. For Propolis, whichis a resin processed by honey bees, it is claimed that it can reduce highblood pressure, speed the healing of broken bones, accelerate cell growth,heal internal and external ulcers, clear infections and so on. It is proposedas a miracle drug similar to penicillin but without any harmful allergicside effects. It is excessive claims of this kind which compromise alternative medicineand tend to tar all its forms with the same brush. Genuine practitionersmust unite and find common cause with orthodox medicine. With propercertification the charlatans who trade in hocus-pocus could then be excluded. Another area on the margins of medicine which urgently calls for controlis that of counselling. It appears that anyone can set himself or herselfup as counsellor and hang out a shingle for business without anyqualification. This is an area where troubled people are particularlyvulnerable. Of course the one who claims to be a counsellor or psychotherapistis also vulnerable. It may be claimed and has been claimed that they areliable for any deterioration or harm occasioned by wrong advice. This came to a head when on a number of occasions children were removedfrom their homes on wrongly drawn charges of abuse by parents. The methodsof child abuse detection were found to be flawed. The parents took legalaction against the public authorities involved. Self-proclaimed counsellorsare even more exposed where wrong advice is given. John Waters in The Irish Times has made something of a crusade on therights of parents. His column of August 7 is headed`Keep Freud away from family and counsellors'. One paragraph gives theflavour of his mind. ``In the present climate of hysteria about sex abuse, more and more peopleare setting themselves up as counsellors, the rapists and phychoanalysts,and routinely going about the destruction of the lives of parents and childrenthrough their fanatical adherence to the lunatic, drug addict, occultistand repressed homosexual charlatan, Sigmund Freud.'' He continues after some comments on the situation in the United States.``In Ireland we face a similar epidemic of injustice into the next generationunless something is done to control the infestation of crack-pots givingcounselling a bad name.'' Once we accept that people are wounded not just physically but psychologicallywe should provide healing for the emotional trauma. However, the psycheis a very sensitive area as those professionally qualified in psychotherapywell know. They are trained in their field of healing. This is no placefor those who blunder in with a few half-baked ideas about therapy 
