medicine
{  
    January 06 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/prescription-only-law-to-be-in-force-in-three-years-26019244.html }
MEDICINES used on food producing animals may only be available on  prescription, following a recent vote in the European Parliament, which expanded the  categories of medicines in the Prescription Only Medicines (POM) regime. All medicines for use on food-producing animals will require a prescription for purchase. The new regime must be in operation across all member states by January 1, 2007. Director of APHA Declan O'Brien said the new law would see farmers having to obtain prescriptions for many medicines that they previously purchased from their pharmacies or local licensed merchants. "An exempted list of products will be drawn up but what this list will contain remains to be seen," he said. "From our correspondence with officials at EU level we expect the list to be limited to relatively simple medicines such as teat dips and oral vitamins and minerals." He said the real issue would be the method used to manage the prescriptions into the future. "There is a strong recognition of the desirability of competition in the market place. "Many medicines that are currently available at pharmacies and licensed merchants may remain available in the same location but will require a prescription for purchase. "The issue is who will be seen as qualified to issue a prescription. Will it be a veterinary surgeon, a pharmacist or perhaps an agriculturist?" If the issuing of prescriptions were to be confined to just vets, Mr O'Brien sees many options on the technicality of writing the prescription. "We could envisage a situation where a vet writes a repeat prescription valued for six months or writes a prescription that covers various therapeutic groups of medicines rather than just specific products. ICSA leader Malcolm Thompson called for the creation of a POM C category under which certain routine treatments such as sheep vaccines, wormers and teat dips could be sold over the counter by licensed merchants. "Otherwise, veterinary bills could rise by up to 50pc," he warned. 
