medicine
{ John Masterson 
    July 05 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/alternative-medicine-is-in-chaos-26233012.html }
ONCE upon a time Pat Thomas was a music journalist. She remembers Ray  Davies of the Kinks as one of her most interesting interviewees. "He threw a cheese sandwich at me and then spent the next two days ringing to apologise. I had said I  thought I had some idea what kids were interested in and he thought that was very arrogant and he was angry with me." Another memorable person was Sting. "I asked him if he had ever done anything non-competitive and he said his mother had taught him to knit. All the tabloids picked up on that!" Today, she is still asking awkward questions - but has moved from music to the way we look after our health and illnesses. After music journalism, she trained as a psychotherapist. Arising from her own pregnancy, and the experiences of her women clients, she became intrigued at how little was known about how the healthy female body worked. "Lots of these women wanted to have their baby at home and I started reading the research and I got hooked." And as she plunged into the world of alternative medicine, one thing became bindingly clear to her: lots of people believed it worked, but there was a dreadful lack of research. Pat reasoned that only a fool would give their child a drug that had not been tested, but once it came to alternatives, things were a lot more lax. "I think alternative medicine is still in a state of chaos and I am trying to bring some order to it." There is, she says, huge interest. I interview her after she has done a morning show on TV3, and she points out that "ninety per cent of the people who phoned TV3 this morning said that alternative medicine had done them some good." What she tries to do in her most recent book is to sort the wheat from the chaff. "I write a column called 'Magic Bullet' where I have a poke at some of the alternatives that don't have much research behind them. There are things on the fringe like velvet antler, harvested from deer and scraped off during certain points in their mating cycle, and this is supposed to keep you young and prevent cancer. And I'm a bit sceptical about Kombucha tea . . . the fads come and go." Pat is scathing about detox which will come as a great relief to many people. "All that fasting is of no benefit for the average individual. The strain on the body may even do you some harm. If there is a heart to this book it is to try and get alternative practitioners to stop trying to practise magic-bullet medicine. Far better to build a strong and respectable alternative to the conventional than airy-fairypromises." So when her son cut his knee a while ago and it swelled up she headed to the GP but didn't fill the prescription. Instead she gave the knee 24 hours to heal with tea tree oil and Echinacea and, lo and behold, the drugs were not needed. But when Pat got pneumonia last year there were no heroics. "I went as far as I could with alternative medicine but realised I had to go to the doctor and I did take the antibiotics. Then I used homeopathy to get my balance back to normal." Readers may remember Pat Thomas for her last thought-provoking book Cleaning Yourself to Death where she aired her suspicions about many of the cleaning products in our houses. "We are coming to the end of the era of the germ. What is really making us ill are toxins, things in our homes that are toxic like cleaning products for the body and the home. The perfumes used in these things contain toxic waste. Half of them are on the EPA hazardous waste list," she fumes. Pat tells me with pride that she lives the life as well as talking the talk. Baking soda, vinegar and borax do most of her cleaning. Instead of shampoo she uses saponified olive oil. Well, she looked clean to me - but does she feel she is becoming a bit of a crank? "Yes, there is a part of me that is cranky but I wear my crankiness with pride," she beams. But she is quick to get herself back into the realms of normality telling me that David, her son, is not horribly deprived. "He's up there with his Gameboy! But, recently, I got rid of the microwave. I like to get the unnecessary clutter out of life." There is a lot of practical common sense about Pat Thomas. Too much of all kinds of medicine is used to keep us going when we should really take a short break instead and give the body a rest. It is all to do with how we see illness, according to Pat. "Most of the illnesses we get are self-limiting. They go away by themselves. We are overmedicated. We take too many antibiotics, too much Echinacea, too much lavender oil. We can't stand being reminded that we're in a body, and we want to get away from it." 'What works. What Doesn't - The Guide to Alternative Healthcare' by Pat Thomas is published by Newleaf and costs ?16.99 
