medicine
{ John WalsheEducation Editor 
    August 19 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/postgraduates-only-plan-to-ease-medical-science-logjam-25935473.html }
MEDICINE and other high-point courses will be removed from the "points"  system, Education Minister Noel Dempsey announced last night. He has accepted a report which recommends that a range of health sciences programmes should be on a postgraduate basis. This would mean that students could undertake an undergraduate programme of their choice in any area (for instance, the arts, humanities, general sciences) before taking a decision to enter medicine or one of the other health science disciplines. The programmes in question are medicine, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech and language therapy, dentistry, veterinary medicine, pharmacy and radiography, all of which currently require extremely high points for entry. Mr Dempsey said that the present arrangement was distorting the points system overall and fuelling the pressures on students associated with Leaving Certificate performance. His announcement followed disappointment over the rise in points for medicine this year - with four of the five medical schools requiring 570 points and even with that, there is no guarantee of entry. If his plan succeeds, next year will be the last year of undergraduate entry to medicine. The report was commissioned by the minister from the Higher Education Authority on foot of a commitment in the Programme for Government. Mr Dempsey said that there were a number of detailed implementation issues that need to be worked through. But it was intended that the revised arrangements would be introduced in medicine initially, with the other disciplines to follow. Arrangements have already been made for the establishment of a taskforce on undergraduate medical education, to be chaired by Prof Pat Fottrell, retired President of NUI Galway, and this group will be asked to consider some of the detailed implementation issues involved. The minister said he intends to have the postgraduate medical programme in place by 2007, with the final intake to existing undergraduate medical programmes to take place next year. "This will ensure that there is no disruption to the supply of medical graduates and no loss of opportunity for any cohort of students to study medicine," he said. However, third level sources said that a lot of tough negotiations lay ahead, especially over the length of the postgraduate courses and there was no guarantee that the colleges would automatically accept the proposed changes. Mr Dempsey said that the proposals offered a number of obvious benefits. He said: "Removing entry selection to these high-points programmes from the CAO points system will have hugely positive benefits for individual students in terms of reduced pressure and enhanced educational experience at senior cycle in second level. "It will also enable second level students to select undergraduate programmes that are more in line with their aptitudes and preferences before deciding to embark on a specific career. "By ensuring that this choice is made at a more mature age, there is a better chance that people are making the right choice for the right reasons and not simply being shepherded on to high-points courses because they are high achievers. "This in turn should have a positive impact on morale and retention in the professions concerned and ensure a wider variety of entrants with a greater range of background experiences and skills. 
