medicine
{ Katherine Donnelly 
    August 27 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/hotly-contested-college-courses-are-still-largely-a-family-affair-26561518.html }
THE sons and daughters of higher professional classes are hogging entry to university courses to become doctors, vets, lawyers or pharmacists. Children of doctors, engineers and solicitors and similar socio-economic groups are dominating participation in the most prestigious degree programmes. Little has changed in the past decade and students from lower social classes are still not getting their share of places on those courses. The higher professional groups make up 5pc of the population, but last year they accounted for: In the case of Medicine, it means that children from families where the principal earner is a higher professional took six times their natural share of places in medical school. When combined with those classified as lower professionals, such as teachers, senior civil servants and nurses, almost half of medical students and over a third of law students come from professional family backgrounds. The children of farmers are particularly well represented on pharmacy and veterinary courses, according to the preliminary figures from the Higher Education Authority (HEA) on socio-economic backgrounds of higher education entrants in 2008/09. However, those from families from lower socio-economic groups are significantly under-represented. Entry to the limited number of places in Medicine has always generated a certain controversy, and it became more intense this year with the introduction of the HPAT aptitude test. The test was intended to take the heat out of the Leaving Certificate points race and widen access to the profession, but has been criticised for excluding some of the highest-performing Leaving Certificate students from Medicine this year. Commenting on the figures, Tom Boland, chief executive of the Higher Education Authority, said it was a "remarkable feature of our higher education system that some of the high profile professions have not become more diverse in their student intake." He said this was in stark contrast to most other fields of study where participation in higher education by traditionally under-represented groups had significantly improved, and begged the question why these young people were not making the transition from second level to careers in medicine, law and other professions. In relation to Medicine, Mr. Boland pointed out that one of the aims of HPAT was to increase diversity in the student intake, but universities also needed to ensure that their Access plans, for students from lower socio-economic backgrounds, were comprehensive and focused on pre-entry strategies to increase admissions to all courses, as well as robust systems of post-entry support.  too early to dismiss MEDIcine entry test: page 45 
