medicine
{  
    January 07 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/cliona-foley-gaa-get-cold-comfort-26019426.html }
A major shift in international anti-doping rules means that Ireland's top  sports stars no longer need to be terrified about taking everyday medicines to cure their coughs and colds. A MAJOR shift in international anti-doping rules means that Ireland's top sports stars no longer need to be terrified about taking everyday medicines to cure their coughs and colds. New Year's Day marked the introduction of several changes in international anti-doping rules issued by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), and one of the most notable is that a category of 'stimulants', which included pseudoephedrine and caffeine, is no longer banned. Some medicines in the colds/coughs area which contain ephedrine are still off limits, and all Irish athletes have been warned to check the new lists thoroughly, particularly through the www.eirpharm.com website. But this rule change puts a lot of previously banned medicines back within the usage of sports stars, and this will be particularly good news for Gaelic footballers and hurlers. Ever since drug-testing came in for GAA players in 2001, the players themselves, team medics and officials had been terrified that a mistake in taking the wrong cold remedy would be one of the likeliest reasons for a prominent player testing positive. Pseudoephedrine, and related substances like phenylpropanolamine and phenylephrine, were commonly contained amongst a large quantity of over-the-counter cold remedies which were previously banned. Amongst the medicines ruled out of bounds for top athletes were popular products like Actifed, some Beechams and Benylin variations, Sudafed, Uniflu and some Nurofen products. Reigning All-Ireland football champions Tyrone tackled the problem in exemplary fashion last year. Manager Mickey Harte went so far as to provide each of his squad members with a medicine bag which contained only products they could take in case of sickness. Other counties were similarly vigilant but many were not quite as well-educated, and there was always a serious possibility that some Gaelic player would test positive because of an innocent mistake. That has now been alleviated, thanks to the changes made by WADA, a body which will ultimately supercede the rules of all other sporting organisations like the International Olympic Committee or individual governing authorities such as FIFA or IAAF. Caffeine was previously only banned if found in a very high ratio in a player's system so its blanket acceptance now is not a huge difference. However, the Irish Sports Council's Anti-Doping Programme manager, Dr Una May, emphasised that Gaelic players, like the rest of the country's top athletes, must continue to be vigilant about the medicines they are taking. "There are still some things they cannot take," she warned. "In the cough and cold area the rules are much looser, they will have more options than before but we cannot stress enough that players must continue to check the relevant information beforehand and be sure that whatever they are taking is allowed." And she outlined one particular addition which will definitely be relevant to some Gaelic players. Glucocorticosteroids are found in anti-inflammatories. They were previously banned orally or by injection but could be taken in an ointment form to treat skin conditions like eczema. However, they are no longer allowed in the ointment form either, unless an athlete can show they warrant an official exemption. Any athlete who needs to use them for an ongoing medical condition will only be allowed to do so if they get a doctor to verify that fact and officially communicate it to the ISC. WADA will, it has stressed, continue to monitor the use of and levels of pseudoephedrine and related stimulants among athletes, and will put them back on the banned list if it feels they are being abused but generally it is believed that the ban on them has been lifted because they are so often taken accidentally in medicine in levels that give no particular performance enhancement. Irish rugby and soccer had to quickly assimilate an anti-doping policy under their international federation rules but the GAA, with no such external parent body, was initially strongly against drug-testing, arguing that their players were amateur. This held no sway with the ISC who pointed out that many of the other Irish sports they test are also amateur. Ultimately the GAA could not continue to get Government funding unless it agreed to drug testing. No GAA player has yet tested positive but all testing so far has taken place 'in competition' (ie immediately after matches). This will change next June when players will be subjected to 'out-of-competition' testing. However, like all team sports, this will only occur at training and not at their homes or places of work, which only happens with people in individual sports whose movements are much easier to track. 
