medicine
{  
    February 14 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/okeeffe-dismisses-idea-of-legalising-cannabis-for-medicinal-use-27060695.html }
THE Chairman of the Southern Health Board Mr Batt OKeeffe has dismissed claims that cannabis should be legalised for medicinal reasons, on the basis that, like tobacco, it too would be a cause of cancer.The Fianna Fáil TDs comments come in the wake of calls THE Chairman of the Southern Health Board Mr Batt O’Keeffe has dismissed claims that cannabis should be legalised for medicinal reasons, on the basis that, like tobacco, it too would be a cause of cancer. The Fianna Fáil TD’s comments come in the wake of calls from senior medical professionals and other Cork TDs to legalise the substance for its proven medicinal benefits. Fine Gael’s Simon Coveney is one of the latest public representatives to advise the government to give serious consideration to the legalisation of the drug for therapeutic reasons under tight supervision. However, Mr O’Keeffe dismisses claims from health professionals that the drug may have considerable benefits for patients suffering from conditions such as multiple sclerosis and glaucoma, saying that there is “insufficient” evidence to support this at present. “I am opposed to the decriminalisation of cannabis on the basis that smoking it brings people into contact with more cancer-causing chemicals than the highest tar tobacco,” said Mr O’Keeffe. “As far as I am aware, it increases the risk of lung and throat cancer. Cannabis can produce three times more carcinogenic ‘tars’ than tobacco and five times the amount of poisonous carbon monoxide. This slows the brain’s ability to think and remember, and in time cannabis can trigger mental illness such as schizophrenia and depression,” said Mr O’Keeffe. “Therefore, I consider that it would be very imprudent, if not downright irresponsible, for any government to legalise cannabis at this point in time,” he said. Mr O’Keeffe also pointed out that to argue that cannabis is no more harmful than tobacco, which is legal, is to miss the point completely. “If tobacco were currently illegal, would any responsible government ever again consider legalising it?” he said. The issue of legalising cannabis for medicinal use recently gained impetus following commments by Garda Commissioner Pat Byrne, who said he saw the merit in looking at whether canabis in pharmaceutical form could be used for therapeutic purposes. Cannabis is currently a banned drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act, 1977 and 1984. However, it is also among the controlled drugs singled out in section 13 of the act, allowing for special licence for use in research. British company GW Pharmaceuticals recently announced that it has been licensed by the UK Home Office to undertake a pharmaceutical research and development programme to develop non smoked cannabis based prescription medicines. GW has already developed sublingual sprays that enable the material to be absorbed directly into the blood stream via the mucosa under the tongue, rather than swallowed. A spokesperson for the company said, “Patients in these trials are clearly gaining benefit. We are seeing clinically significant improvements in a range of symptoms, including pain, muscle spasms, spasticity, bladder-related symptoms and tremor.” Following a parliamentary question recently Health Minister Micheál Martin said, “I am aware that claims are being made in respect of cannabis about the possible benefits for patients suffering from certain conditions such as multiple sclerosis and glaucoma. However, these medical claims are not currently supported by the results of recognised medical research. “If, however, an application were to be made to me for a licence under the Misuse of Drugs Acts, 1977 and 1984, and the Orders and Regulations made thereunder, which proposed the conduct of research into the therapeutic use of cannabis, in circumstances where the approval of the Irish Medicines Board under the Control of Clinical Trials Act, 1987 were to be forthcoming and which would be likely to obtain the necessary approval of the appropriate Ethics Committee under that Act, I would be prepared to give serious consideration to the grant of the required licence(s) under the Misuse of Drugs Acts,” he added. 
