medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    April 13 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/doctors-urged-to-be-vigilant-about-use-of-herbal-medicines-26090099.html }
DOCTORS and pharmacists have been urged to routinely ask patients "in a non-judgemental manner" if they are  taking herbal medicines. The caution from the National Medicines Information Unit in St James's Hospital in Dublin, says that without mandatory quality control or adequate post-marketing surveillance, doctors should be mindful of the potential unexpected effects of such products. Thousands of Irish people are turning to alternative medicine and herbal products and it is predicted that this trend will continue to escalate. It said that while there is widespread self-medication, there has been little evidence of the effectiveness of such products in the form of clinical trials. Patients are often slow to tell their GPs that they are taking a herbal medicine in case they will be criticised or reveal a lack of faith in his/her handling of their case. But now medics should take the initiative and try and ascertain if there are any side effects to the patient, according to the hospital's bulletin. It pointed out that the popular herb St John's Wort, which people have taken for mild depression, has generally been found to be well tolerated. But there are no details available on its use by pregnant or lactating mothers and it is best avoided by those groups. It also says that the safety of the herb with prescribed medication has not been established. There have been a number of documented interactions with prescription drugs. The decision to ban its sale in health shops caused a furore and underlined the need to introduce a fair licensing system. The caution comes as the Irish Medicines Board signalled it is planning to introduce a licensing procedure for some herbal products. The Department of Health has asked the board, which currently licenses conventional drugs, to develop a national licensing scheme for "traditional and alternative" products. The board has sent an interim report to the department which includes around 40 submissions from various sectors. Herbal medicines project manager Dr Dairine Dempsey is co-ordinating the project. 
