medicine
{ Aine Kerr 
    September 01 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/medicine-remains-out-of-reach-for-most-25964253.html }
MEDICINE remains out of reach except for the highest of high fliers with little or no change in the second round offers. However, the good news for aspiring medical students is that the Royal College of Surgeons (RCSI) has made further offers on reduced points of 575* on random selection- a decrease of five points. It has also dropped its Pharmacy course by ten points, with students on 535 points now eligible through random selection. Trinity College and UCD also made further offers for their Medicine courses but the points (590* and 575* respectively) remained the same as the first round and offers are again only being made on random selection. Both UCC and NUI Galway made no further offers for Medicine in the CAO's second round offers. In the first round offers last week, all medicine courses increased, with the exception of NUI Galway, which remained the same as 2004 at 570* points. The fact that so few students will receive second offers for courses in Medicine today is not surprising given the fact that Medicine was the first preference of 2257 students this year. However, second round offers were also made in some of the high demand courses such as Pharmacy, Dentistry, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy and Radiography. Demand for healthcare courses has been climbing steadily this year and in excess of 500 points was required for entry to 23 of 24 healthcare courses. Dentistry in UCC decreased from clear points of 565 to random selection on 560*, while courses in physiotherapy decreased by five points in both the RCSI and University of Limerick. But students holding out for offers of occupational therapy or speech therapy will be disappointed today. Only Trinity College made further offers in its occupational therapy course on the same points, while UCC and NUI Galway made no further offers in either occupational therapy or speech therapy. Added to this, there were no further offers for courses in radiography in Trinity College or UCD, where points for radiography fell by ten points this year to 500 points. In the first round offers last week, the highest points cut off for nursing was 415* in NUI Galway. Nursing was the first preference of 5,029 students this year and today's second round offers bring a mixed bag of fortunes for those waiting on a place in nursing. The good news is that nursing in Galway Mayo IT fell a clear ten points from 370 to random selection on 360 points. Other nursing courses such in Athlone IT decreased from 365* to 360*, DCU fell from 395 to 390, NUI Galway decreased from 415* to 410* and Waterford IT decreased by five points to 405 points on random selection. 
