medicine
{ Charlie Weston 
    September 02 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/pharmacists-fear-loss-of-120m-business-to-vets-25964565.html }
RETAIL pharmacists have filed a complaint with the Competition Authority alleging that planned new regulations will create a monopoly for vets in the lucrative supply of animal medicines. The Irish Pharmaceutical Union (IPU) fears its members will be totally squeezed out of the ?120m-a-year animal medicines market, with vets set to reap the benefits. IPU members claim there is a risk vets will end up abusing their position. They cited claims by the Irish Farmers' Association that there are already huge mark-ups on some animal medicines prescribed and supplied by vets. The IFA, which also opposes the new rules, has claimed they will lead to an explosion in animal health costs at farm level. IFA members claim animal medicines will shoot up by ?80m a year. On foot of an EU directive, the Department of Agriculture is proposing a new law requiring that all veterinary medicines be sold under a prescription-only regime, where vets only will write the prescriptions. Vets are also allowed to supply animal medicines. In the UK, under the same EU directive, professional people other than vets are allowed to write prescriptions for different categories of prescription-only medicines, the IPU has pointed out. A spokesman for the IPU said yesterday the Irish interpretation of the EU directive would "give a complete monopoly to the veterinary profession". The president of Veterinary Ireland, Frank O'Sullivan, denied that retail pharmacists would be squeezed out of the market. They would still be entitled to supply medicines. The new regulations were designed to protect the high reputation of Irish food produce. Asked about IFA claims of a mark-up of between 300pc and 400pc on some vet-supplied drugs, Mr O'Sullivan said Veterinary Ireland was precluded from getting involved in pricing matters under competition legislation. 
