medicine
{ Emer O'Kelly 
    September 10 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/newman-not-irelands-only-deadly-quack-26212425.html }
ANYBODY who has ever had a massage or a reflexology session can testify to the blissful contribution they make to a sense of wellbeing. And very few people involved in alternative therapies are potential murderers. But the dreadful evidence that emerged in London during the trial of Christopher Newman for the frenzied murder of Georgina Eager should signal danger. In fact, danger should have been signalled a long time ago. There are a lot of nutcases out there, a lot of charlatans, and a lot of potential killers. They may not be psychopaths like Newman, but they are involved in areas of health care which require study and qualification; and the majority of them are totally unqualified. If all they're doing is giving a massage, "relief" or otherwise, they can't do much damage. But when they interfere with the way the body functions, or prevent a sick person seeking proper medical help, they can do real damage; sometimes they can kill. Even when they do not, they are vicious predators who prey upon vulnerable people. There are 64 display advertisements listed in the Yellow Pages under 'Alternative and Complementary Medicine'. That doesn't include the single-line listings, which are legion. Many may be highly qualified practitioners, including several doctors and physiotherapists who have moved into the area of alternative medicine. Indeed, I recognised some of the names and organisations, and know they're above board. But who vouches for the others? Christopher Newman, after all, seemed on the face of it to be qualified: he invented a university and conferred his own degrees on himself. And nobody bothered to check him out. His employee, Georgina Eager, had worked on the cosmetics counter in Brown Thomas, which hardly qualified her as a medical therapist. Yet she was presented by Newman as a clinician. There is an Irish Association of Colon Hydrotherapists listed, with the notification that its members are professionally trained at "IACRH training schools." Georgina Eager, however, was not one of them, and she was administering colonic irrigation. Someone who has done a three-month course can't replace the surgeon when surgery is the only answer. Anyway, what if they're charlatans, their qualifications based on some kind of quackery which can destroy the body if exposed to them? Some alternative practitioners listed in the Yellow Pages offer to treat infertility problems. I hope their treatments have a track record: I can't imagine worse pain than to be desperate for a child, and pursue a course of treatment which has no chance of success. People know their percentage chances when they undergo conventional infertility treatment - can alternative practitioners provide the same information? I'm not rubbishing alternative and complementary medicine; I just feel that we need to remember that before the advances of modern science people died before they were 40: from chills, from minor cuts, from undiagnosed wasting diseases. Nowadays, a wasting disease can still go undiagnosed if it's cancer, and a desperate man or woman puts faith in a greedy quack instead of in the medical profession. Dr Michael Boland, director of the Post Graduate Centre of the Irish College of General Practitioners, says the majority of GPs are neutral on alternative medicine, and a good number of them are actively interested in it. But alternative medicine does not have a basis in science, he points out, and that means that it is a fertile area for charlatans to prey on the gullible. If somebody has an incurable cancer, desperation may lead them to seek a cure from such a charlatan. Dr Boland doesn't deny the existence of predators in conventional medicine: he cites Percy Carmody, now struck off, who relieved people of tens of thousands of pounds while promising to cure their cancers. He adds, however: "Alternative medicine is not a scientific-based discipline. People need to be very careful . . . they can be permanently harmed." Even in a widely recognised discipline such as homeopathy, there can be grey areas. When I called the Irish Society of Homeopaths, a voice mail directed me to their website for information. Frankly, I found it alarming. It recommended "self-prescribing" as ideal in the case of "non-recurring mild acute illnesses, such as childhood illnesses, coughs and colds, flu's (sic) and food poisoning. " A caveat was offered with the recommendation that you should not attempt to treat any serious complaint yourself, and minor ones that do not respond quickly to treatment "should be referred to a qualified homeopath". There was no mention of referring anything to a qualified physician. I imagine that even a confirmed devotee of homeopathy, faced with a child with food poisoning, would bypass the website, put the child in the car, and head for the nearest hospital. At least I hope so. The Irish Homeopathy Association website also says it has 300 members, only 70 of whom are accredited. I'm not too hot at the maths, but that seems to leave 230 homeopaths out there who are not qualified (sorry, accredited). Yes, we all remember Harold Shipman, a qualified doctor who murdered dozens of helpless old women. We all remember Crippen. He only pretended to be a doctor. And he dismembered his wife. And now we have Christopher Newman, a quack, a charlatan a criminal and a murderer. He's only off the street because he murdered an innocent woman. Otherwise, he'd still be plying his trade. Nobody is suggesting that complementary medicine should be shunned. But if you're doing more than having a massage, have the wit to check out the qualifications of your "practitioner". 
