medicine
{ Mary O'Donnell 
    January 27 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/going-to-college-its-a-question-of-mature-status-26021893.html }
Not every school-leaver fills out a CAO application. Some do not want to go  to college at all, or they want to defer accepting a place for a year. Others do not want to  make any choices just yet. So each year, some applicants apply for the first time on the basis of Leaving Certificate results from a previous year. Applicants who accepted and deferred a place last year  must send in an application for that place through CAO again this year. Not every school-leaver fills out a CAO application. Some do not want to go to college at all, or they want to defer accepting a place for a year. Others do not want to make any choices just yet. So each year, some applicants apply for the first time on the basis of Leaving Certificate results from a previous year. Applicants who accepted and deferred a place last year must send in an application for that place through CAO again this year. Applicants with results from previous years should remember above all to let CAO know the year they did their exam, and their examination number. They will find the space for this information on the application form. It might seem pretty obvious but it is an omission that a few applicants commit each year. What happens then is that CAO does not search for their exam results, and so has no basis upon which to offer the applicant a place. Students who are repeating the Leaving Certificate should also remember to give details of previous exam results because they too may need to use some of their subjects from a previous year. As most applicants know, colleges will count your points from six best subjects in one year's sitting only. They will, however, accept college-entry requirements or specific course requirements from Leaving Certificate results from different years. A student who is repeating the Leaving Certificate might drop English, for example, to allow more time to concentrate on their six best subjects this year. But if a college sees no results in English, the applicant could be disqualified no matter what their points are. So inform CAO of your exam results from previous years. And to return today to a topic touched on in last Friday's column; the question of mature applicants and graduate applicants, two categories which are not necessarily synonymous. You could be a graduate applicant to a course but not yet aged 23, the minimum age of a mature applicant. You could, of course, be a mature applicant who has never been to college before, and therefore not a graduate applicant. Most mature applicants are not graduates. They are applying to a college course for the first time. Colleges differ in their applications arrangements for mature applicants. The majority of them, including NUI Galway, UCC, and UCD, require them to apply through CAO. The Royal College of Surgeons (RCSI), on the other hand, is one of the 16 colleges that participate in CAO who require mature applicants to apply to them directly. Mature applicants to courses in Trinity College, NUI Maynooth, and St Patrick's Pontifical University, Maynooth must submit applications through CAO, and must also submit a separate application to the college in question by February 1. Mature applicants to nursing courses apply through CAO in all cases, using the separate entry code provided in the CAO handbook for every nursing course. So who is likely to be a graduate applicant? You are more likely to find graduate applicants who may be 'mature' applying to healthcare courses like medicine, dentistry or physiotherapy. One course, veterinary medicine in UCD, provides a unique example in the CAO handbook. In UCD's listing applicants will notice a separate graduate entry code for veterinary medicine. A small quota of places is held in veterinary medicine under this entry code. You will not find a graduate CAO entry code for (human) medicine in UCD or elsewhere. So for example, a mature applicant to medicine, whether a graduate or not, would apply on the only entry code there is for medicine on UCD's listing The Royal College of Surgeons accepts applications from graduate applicants for its medicine, pharmacy and physiotherapy courses directly to the college. Mature or graduate applicants to any course should always check with the college before applying. 
