medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent 
    May 09 2011 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/cancer-sufferers-left-waiting-weeks-for-vital-tablets-26730973.html }
Cancer patients have been waiting two weeks for vital chemotherapy tablets due to a shortage of medicines, pharmacists warned yesterday. Other patients suffering from conditions such as diabetes and asthma may also be suffering because of a lack of supplies. The problem with supply has worsened in recent weeks and may be linked to a fall in the price of medicines, prompting drug manufacturers to distribute medicines to countries with higher prices, said Darragh O' Loughlin, president of the Irish Pharmacy Union (IPU). Speaking at the union's annual meeting in Kilkenny, he said the Health Service Executive (HSE) needed to get tough with manufacturers and ensure they signed up to a public service agreement to ensure continuity of supply. "There has always been a problem with supply but it has worsened recently. I have cases where I have no particular medicine for a condition and have to send the patient back to the doctor for some remedial care," he said. He added that chemotherapy drugs taken orally have run short, as have certain contraceptives, thyroid medicines, tablets for diabetes, as well as anti-asthmatic medicine for children, some antibiotics, anti-psychotics and certain blood pressure tablets. Pharmacists have been given various explanations for the shortage, including production difficulties, problems with labelling and unexpected demand. Commenting on the claims by pharmacists, Dr Neil Boyle, vice president of the Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association, which represents drug manufacturers, rejected claims that drug companies were affected by pricing. "That is not a driver for supplying the Irish market. There are agreements in relation to supply with the HSE," he said.  Demand He added that some pharmacists were sourcing their drugs from companies outside Ireland, which could make it difficult at times for manufacturers based here to know the level of demand. If a company in the UK stops supplying, others here have to step in to try to manage the availability of that medicine. Other issues, such as moving the manufacturing base from two sites to one, could also cause problems with supply, he added. However, every effort was made to alert the HSE and pharmacists if problems were pending. "Broadly speaking, companies make contingency plans but we don't always get it right. We would be anxious to sit down with the Irish Pharmacy Union to discuss the concerns they have raised," he said. Irish Independent 
