medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent 
    October 01 2010 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/generic-drugs-mean-patients-will-save-40pc-on-prescriptions-26685838.html }
PRIVATE patients who are prescribed a range of generic drugs should see savings in medicine costs from today. Cuts of up to 40pc have been agreed in the factory prices of several of these medicines, and they should now be passed on to customers. For instance, Norzac (30 20mg tablets) is coming down in price by about 33pc. The new drug-reimbursement price is €9.60. This means that, after the pharmacist's mark-up of 50pc and dispensing fee of up to €5, the customer will be paying in the region of €19.40, compared to €25.80 previously. The new reimbursement price for the antibiotic Klaram is €13.08, down 32pc. It will cost the customer around €22 after the mark-ups and fees have been added. Patients have been urged to ask their doctor to prescribe a generic drug where there is an equivalent to the branded version to save money. A pharmacist cannot dispense a generic drug if the doctor has prescribed the branded equivalent. A generic drug is a medicine that is similar to an original, brand-named medicine. It has the same active ingredients as the original medicine and is made to the same standard to make sure it is safe and effective. Generic versions of a medicine may have different colours, flavours or combinations of non-active ingredients compared to the original product. A generic drug may also be a different shape or size and come in a different box, package or bottle. However, pharmacists may have stocks of generic drugs that were bought at the older price, so not all customers will benefit immediately. The cuts in the factory price of generic medicines are expected to deliver full-year savings of more than €25m for the HSE. The Department of Health and Children is currently drafting legislation to introduce a system of reference pricing and generic substitution. This will mean that private patients will only be reimbursed for the full cost of drugs from a particular list. It is due to be introduced next year.  Charge Meanwhile, medical card holders will be paying a 50c charge per prescription item from today on. The maximum cost per family in a month is €10. The new prescription charge for medical cards will generate €2m a month for the Health Service Executive (HSE). Sinn Fein health spokesman Caoimhghin O Caolain said that the prescription charges for medical card-holders would create a "bureaucratic nightmare". The HSE is asking medical card-holders to register online as a family group, print off a certificate and present this to the pharmacist. More information can be found at www.medicalcard.ie Irish Independent 
