medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    November 01 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/why-buying-your-medicine-online-isnt-worth-the-risk-26695766.html }
Imagine a coffee that promises you the chance to lose weight and sip your way to beauty. Would you fall for it? Well at least some Irish people have been persuaded the buy this product over the internet. It was one of several products containing banned substances that were seized on delivery into this country over the past year. It had been bought by unsuspecting members of the public for their own consumption, hoping it would live up to its promise. They were not to know it contained illegal ingredients which were outlawed. Many people are also unaware it is against the law to purchase medicines online which are only available on prescription here. Before anyone sits in judgment of someone who unwittingly buys these dodgy products, it's worth remembering how the internet is the new corner shop. It's possible to buy everything from the week's groceries to a designer coat with just a few clicks. So it is natural that people look to the internet to buy medicinal products, particularly those which may cause them embarrassment if purchased at the chemist. Several of these sites selling the drugs have the perfect bedside manner and have the appearance of being safe and trustworthy. Slimming products and anti-impotence drugs are among those most commonly seized here. Clearly, the anonymity of the net is part of the attraction along with the promises of discounts. It may seem like the quicker and cheaper option in a country like Ireland where drug prices are high compared to countries like Spain. It makes it all the more difficult to warn people of the dangers they face buying these products online. It is the health danger, rather than the fact the purchase of prescribed medicines is illegal, that is the main message. The reality is that what they are getting online or through mail order may not just be a dummy version of the drug but also a volatile mix of hazardous ingredients. When they arrive through the letterbox they can have the same labelling and colouring as the genuine medicine but in reality may just be a potentially life-threatening toxic mix. The Irish Medicines Board was recently involved in a cross-country crackdown by various agencies which aimed to clamp down on these dodgy products. Internationally 267,855 packages were inspected and more than one million tablets seized including steroids, painkillers, drug medication, cancer drugs and insulin. It also involved the inspection of 328 portal hubs for illegal activity which resulted in the removal of 290 websites from the internet. It's not just drugs companies and pharmacists that stand to lose out if the drugs are purchased online or by mail order. Independent watchdogs have found everything from cement to rat poison, floor polish, chalk, rice flour and lead paint in these drugs. Also, the concentrations of real active ingredients can be low or so high as to be dangerous. There have also been a number of documented deaths directly linked to drugs bought online. So the simple message is don't take the risk. This online warning also extends to products such as contact lenses and syringes. Irish Independent 
