medicine
{ Hubert Murphy 
    November 12 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/alex-has-a-bill-mission-35198763.html }
Alex Baizert knows the pain a Cork mother is going through - because he followed that same path for most of his life. Vera Twomey, mother of six year old Ava Barry who suffers from Dravet's Syndrome, left her home last week to walk to the Dail. Her goal is simple - legalise medicinal marijuana to help her daughter live. Dravet's Syndrome affects one in 60,000 children, and is an extremely rare form of drug-resistant epilepsy. Vera has treated her daughter with cannabidiol oil previously, which has helped to relieve her seizures.  Alex too has suffered from epilepsy since birth, undergoing a second operation last year to curb his seizures. Everytime he hears of someone suffering from his illness, Dravet's or even cancer, he understands their frustration. 'There is a bill before the Oireachtas, Bill 76, due to be discussed on December 20th next and it's the 'Cannabis for Medicinal Use Regulation Bill 2016.' This can save lives and make living a lot better for a lot of people,' he states. He has spent months on the trail of TDs in a bid to get the bill passed - it's already law in 22 other countries, the latest being Australia. 'If I can be the voice for people in the Drogheda area, then I'm happy,' he adds. 'This is about the treatment of epilepsy and has been accepted by many experts worldwide.'  The bill, sponsored by Deputy Gino Kenny and Deputy Bríd Smith, provides for the regulation of cannabis for medicinal use and for that purpose, provides for the establishment of the Cannabis Regulation Authority; to provide for the licensing of the supply of cannabis for medicinal use. They will be responsible for the development and maintenance of a regulatory framework for the sale (wholesale and retail), labelling, advertising and marketing of cannabis and cannabis-based products for medicinal use. They also seek to 'oversee the development of a professional, safe, and well-regulated service for the supply of cannabis for medicinal use.' It also aims to 'promote measures' to facilitate increased understanding and awareness of the use of cannabis and cannabis-based products for medicinal purposes.' 'I have been onto all the TDs and have dealt with Fergus O'Dowd's office on this. This is something vital and a mother should not have to walk from Cork to get such a service for her daughter.' The belief is that cannabis provides effective pain relief. 'I just want to highlight this bill and ask people to put pressure on their TDs to do something about it. The likes of epilepsy affects a lot of people and if this can help them we should be supporting it.' Alex can be contacted at abaizert@yahoo.ie. Drogheda Independent 
