medicine
{  
    August 28 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/painkillers-can-be-a-headache-say-our-chemists-26314202.html }
PAIN-RELIEVING over-the-counter medicines can end up giving people "rebound" headaches if they are overused, pharmacists warned yesterday. The public has been urged to be vigilant about the popular medicines which can have serious side-effects and, in some cases, lead to addiction if taken in large quantities. Pharmacist Darragh O'Loughlin yesterday urged people to always ensure they read instructions accompanying the medicines and do not use them for longer than recommended unless advised to do so by a doctor. Speaking at the launch of a new public awareness campaign on proper use of the medicines, Mr O'Loughlin said there is particular concern about painkillers containing codeine, which can result in physical or psychological dependence, leaving the user suffering restlessness and irritability once consumption stops. A recent survey showed that people underestimated the potential side effects of these common medications. Some 48pc of those surveyed said they would give an aspirin to a child under 16 years. "Patients who use relievers which contain codeine for longer than three days at a time, or exceed the recommended dosage, could also experience what are called rebound headaches. "Pain relievers are quick relief for occasional headaches, but incorrect use may actually contribute to headaches rather than easing them", he warned. It is best to take aspirin and other pain relievers after a meal as they can irritate your stomach and, in extreme cases, may cause indigestion, ulcers or bleeding. Tinnitus (ringing in the ears) can indicate that you have taken too much aspirin. Other side effects of taking aspirin can include nausea, vomiting and acute asthma in people with asthma. Aspirin can interact with several other medicines so medical attention is recommended if there is any difficulty breathing, wheeziness, breathlessness, or signs of a rash . Paracetamol is a relatively safe mild analgesic, with few known side-effects. But if taken in very large quantities, it can have serious negative side-effects, including liver damage or failure. Dr Rebecca Cramp, Scientific and Regulatory Affairs Manager with IPHA said: "There are many effective pain relievers available without prescription, but it is essential that they are taken correctly. If not taken as recommended on the pack and in the package leaflet, people will not get the best from their medicine." Key advice in the awareness campaign is to ask the advice of your pharmacist about the medications. It is also being sponsored by the Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association which represents drug companies. Although there are no known problems with taking cold cure medicines with painkillers, it is advised to stop taking cold remedies that contain paracetamol or ibuprofen if already taking painkillers. Avoid taking ibuprofen and aspirin together as they can cause serious stomach upset Some painkillers can cause side-effects in children. For example, if a child has asthma, taking ibuprofen can make it worse. 
