medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan  Health Correspondent 
    August 09 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/generic-drugs-to-save-cholesterol-patients-130-a-year-29485467.html }
PRIVATE patients could save around €130 a year by asking their pharmacist to avail of new powers to dispense the cheapest cholesterol-lowering drug. The drugs, known as statins, are the first to be part of a newly published list of branded and generic medicines, which are all equally effective – but vary in price. There are several generic versions of statins which have been classed as equally effective by the Irish Medicines Board (IMB). The HSE said Simvastatin is the cheapest of these drugs, costing €5.92 per 40mg dose. This compares with Lipitor, the original branded version, which came off patent last year, which is €21.86 for a 20mg dose. These are the wholesale prices of the drugs and are subject to another mark-up before they are sold by the pharmacists to patients. Pfizer, the makers of Lipitor, announced yesterday that the factory price of all doses of the branded drug would come down by between 24pc and 33pc from September. However, there will still be a mark-up for suppliers and the pharmacist, so the final price for the customer remains to be seen. The move is nonetheless good news for the customer, and signals that competition from generic versions of Lipitor will help bring down the cost of medicines, even if they remain more expensive than other countries. Under legislation passed earlier this summer, pharmacists can substitute a generic drug on a published list for a branded version, even if a doctor has prescribed the more expensive medicine. A spokeswoman for the HSE said maximum revised prices for generic statins must be in place from September 1. The price at which they leave the factory must come down by 20pc by that date, although some have already imposed the reductions. It means that a 10mg pack of 28 generic statins, which costs €11.56, will have to fall to a maximum of €9.24 by September. A 40mg pack of 28 statins must come down from €30.48 to a maximum €24.38. The IMB is drawing up similar lists of interchangeable medicines that treat other conditions. The Department of Health is to introduce a system of reference pricing from November, which will set the price for a particular group of drugs that treat a condition. The IMB said that the interchangeable list may be substituted for each other to help save money for those who pay for medicine. "The publication of an interchangeable list by the IMB will facilitate increased levels of generic substitution by assisting pharmacists to safely dispense a lower-cost version of a medicine where a specific brand has been prescribed." Irish Independent 
