medicine
{  
    March 09 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/medicine-dentistry-and-nursing-top-cao-choices-26393242.html }
Katherine Donnelly THE demand for a career in medicine is continuing to grow, according to this year's CAO application figures. Medicine, along with nursing, dentistry and science, are among the areas showing increased interest from those planning to start college in the autumn. But education has seen a big fall-off in applications while administration/business and engineering/technology have continued their downward trends. A range of other health-related courses, including physiotherapy, pharmacy and "others" such as occupational therapy and radiography, are also down. However, in a year when total CAO applications for honours degree courses fell by 0.55pc, demand for a place in medicine rose by 7.59pc. An extra 70 undergraduate places in medicine - a 23pc rise - approved by the Government for next autumn eases the situation. The CAO has received applications from 59,485 individuals, down about 1pc from 60,126 last year, which, on average, should make it easier to secure a college place. The figures reflect the ongoing decline in school-leaver numbers with Leaving Certificate entries down by almost 6pc, to about 52,000, This is offset by a growth in the number of mature students applying for college. Overall demand for honours degree places remains buoyant, dipping by only 0.55pc. The decline in applications is felt more sharply at ordinary degree/diploma/certificate level, where the drop of 5.8pc will leave the institutes of technology struggling to fill places on some courses. The 11.1pc drop in first preferences for education is interpreted as a settling down after the economic downturn a few years ago that saw a rise in interest in safe careers such as teaching. The employers body, IBEC, said the figures showing a 5pc increase in first preferences for science at honours degree were encouraging but the drop in applications for engineering was worrying and a cause of concern for industry. University College Dublin has seen a 10.4pc rise in its first preference applications, attributed to a complete revision of the undergraduate curriculum and new undergraduate courses. At UCD, numbers applying for its medicine undergraduate programme fell slightly, which may be related to the proposals to introduce graduate-entry medical programmes. There were a large number of first preferences for UCD's pilot graduate medical programme. A 3.5pc fall in first preferences at Trinity College Dublin may be partly as a direct result of new courses at UCD, but a spokesperson said that overall applications were steady over a five to six-year period. Against the trend, TCD has registered increased interest in engineering and business. A 35pc rise in applications for art is down to the inclusion of the popular National College of Art and Design "core studies" course in the CAO for the first time this year. Meanwhile, a once-off scholarship programme at UCD, offering ?20,000 to 10 students, probably generated the 24pc surge in demand for agriculture/horticulture courses. Dublin City University and the University of Limerick also enjoyed an increase in first preference applications. 
