medicine
{  
    April 26 2014 07:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/pharmacists-seek-more-pill-powers-to-assist-patients-30220309.html }
ONE in three people over 65 is on five or more medicines, according to pharmacists. They are calling on Health Minister James Reilly to expand the role of the pharmacist to provide patients with Medicines Use Reviews (MURs). This is a consultation-based service undertaken by a pharmacist to assist patients in getting the greatest benefit from their treatment regime. Vice-President of the Irish Pharmacy Union, Kathy Maher, said: "Such a service is currently provided by pharmacists to patients in the UK under the NHS. "As people get older, medicines management can become more complex, especially where a patient is taking a number of different medications every day. "For many older people, it is a challenge for various reasons to stick accurately to their treatment plan, which can have a negative impact on their health, safety and ultimately their quality of life. It is important that elderly people are supported in taking their medicines correctly." The advice is: Talk to your pharmacist about your medicines on a regular basis, especially any new medications. Tell your pharmacist if you are taking any herbal or over-the-counter medicines, as sometimes these can react with prescription medicines. Write down, or get a family member or carer to write down, all the medicines you are taking and why they have been prescribed. Keep a copy of this on display in your home in the event of a medical emergency. Take your medicines as prescribed by your doctor. Try to take your medicines at the same time every day. If you have to take a number of tablets at different times of the day, it is a good idea to set a reminder for yourself. If you find it difficult to swallow tablets and capsules, tell your pharmacist as some medicines also come in liquid or soluble forms that are easier to swallow. Kathy Maher added: "We are calling on the Government to utilise the resources of pharmacists to their full potential as medicines experts, and introduce a structured Medicines Use Review, which will particularly benefit elderly patients. "An MUR is an opportunity for a patient to discuss their medicines with a qualified pharmacist. It complements the role of the doctor, to identify if there are any interactions, discuss side effects, eliminate duplication or identify any problems associated with a patient's medicines. It is a safe, efficient and cost effective initiative, which puts the patient first." Health & Living 
