medicine
{ Katherine  Donnelly 
    May 20 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/medicine-aptitude-test-to-start-for-students-next-year-26447530.html }
SCHOOL-LEAVERS who want to study medicine will pay €95 to sit a new aptitude test, the first of which will take place February 2009. Contrary to earlier indications, the test will be open to students who sat the Leaving Certificate prior to 2009. Changes to the selection criteria for medicine are designed to take the heat out of the college-entry points race that saw students striving for the maximum 600 in order to be guaranteed a place. Under the new arrangements, places in undergraduate medicine will be awarded on the basis of a combination of results in the Leaving Certificate and the new admissions test. Crucial The test will not examine academic knowledge, but will measure a candidate's logical reasoning and problem-solving skills as well as non-verbal reasoning and the ability to understand the thoughts, behaviour and/or intentions of people. "A crucial element of the test is that it measures the student's ability, rather than prepared learning and this avoids a situation whereby scores could be improved through repeated testing and grind courses," said Professor Bill Powderly of UCD, commenting on behalf of the Irish medical schools . Education Minister Batt O'Keeffe welcomed the new arrangements, which are approved by the four universities with undergraduate medical schools -- NUI Galway, TCD, UCC and UCD. Students with a minimum 480 Leaving Certificate points, and who meet subject requirements of an individual university in the same sitting of the exam, will be eligible to have their results in the new test taken into consideration for entry to medicine. A new formula has been devised to count Leaving Certificate points for the purposes of the new entry route -- points up to 550 will count as normal and above this, each band of five points will translate as one point, allowing for a maximum score of 560. Achievable The new admissions test will have a maximum score of 300 points, so the students' marks may be combined to a total maximum achievable of 860. The test, known as HPAT (Health Professional Admission Test -- Ireland) was chosen after an international tender process and will be independently administered by the Australian Council for Education Research (ACER), which has an international reputation in this area. Sample questions will be available at www.hpat-ireland.acer.edu.au from September, as the first Leaving Certificate cohort to be eligible for the test begin their final academic year. The questions will be multiple choice, with four or five possible responses, only one of which will be correct and which candidates will be asked to select the most appropriate. The first test will take place on Saturday, February 14 in test centres in Cork, Dublin, Galway, the north-west and the south-east. Brochures outlining the new selection criteria are now being sent to schools. The Higher Education Authority has confirmed that the test will be open to students who sat the Leaving Certificate in previous years. They will have to have achieved no less than 480 points and meet minimum subject requirements in the same Leaving Certificate year. So school-leavers who miss a place in medicine this year could try under the new arrangements in 2009. The proposals represent the implementation of key recommendations of the Fottrell report, aimed at reforming medical education. It includes a lifting of the cap on undergraduate medical places for EU students from 305 to 480, and a new graduate entry route, giving a combined annual intake of 720 when fully implemented in 2010/11. 
