medicine
{  
    October 22 2012 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/weve-paid-high-price-for-cutting-medics-pay-28821807.html }
AS Oscar Wilde might have said, for a country to lose one dean of medicine may be regarded as a misfortune, but losing two looks like carelessness. With heads of both TCD and UCD medical schools leaving their positions in six months, the Government needs to be sure that the latter is not the case. It is certainly the case that Prof Dermot Kelleher, former head of medicine at Trinity, said his decision to leave was based on a unique opportunity to take up a post as principal of the Faculty of Medicine in the prestigious Imperial College, London. After a career spanning about 30 years, Prof Bill Powderly said a decision to return to Washington University, St Louis, where he previously spent 22 years, and where he will head up a division on global health, was a complex one that was not taken overnight. Nonetheless, they are big losses and their international mobility underscores their very talent. Prof Powderly has made clear that his decision is not unrelated to the introduction of salary cuts that will make it hard to attract academics of the right calibre -- plus his disappointment over biomedical research opportunities. He was one of those Irish academics attracted back from abroad to take leadership roles in the past 15-20 years. He names others, including Fergus Shanahan, Professor of Medicine at UCC; Michael Keane, Professor of Medicine and Therapeutics at UCD; Bill Hall, Professor of Microbiology at UCD; Tim O'Brien, Professor of Medicine at NUIG; and Patrick Murray, Professor of Clinical Pharmacology at UCD, who also gave up big roles elsewhere to return home. At salaries of about €200,000 a year, it is hard to argue that academic medical consultants are not well paid. Even the proposed reduced rate of €145,000 is handsome by Irish standards. They tend to be the best paid of all Irish academics, but Bill Powderly argues there are good reasons for that: "They have a triple role covering patient treatment, medical student education and research. "If we were serious about providing world class healthcare to our people, we would be fostering an environment where talented academic medics can work at the interface between patients and research. But the structure and the health policy are now both sadly lacking." He and the other deans have written to Health Minister James Reilly and HSE chief Tony O'Brien stressing that these jobs are critical leadership roles and warning of the deterrent factor of the salary cut. Both men can also expect a letter from the Irish Universities Association (IUA) calling for the cut to be reversed and saying that fresh thinking is needed on how to pay and retain top talent. The sort of "fresh thinking" the IUA wants is to give universities the flexibility to reward responsibility and performance, not only in medicine, but in other disciplines. In the UK many universities pay allowances to academic leaders. Amounts vary. Those on the top team might get £20,000 on top of their salary, heads of schools might get between £8,000 and £12,000. Up to 2011, Irish universities handed out allowances worth €7.6m to 233 senior staff, because they felt they were worth it. The Department of Education cried foul and those allowances are no more. That is the conversation that the universities now want to re-open. Irish Independent 
