medicine
{ John Walshe and Katherine Donnelly 
    August 18 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/expert-warns-medicine-exam-could-face-court-challenge-26559333.html }
THE Government could face a court challenge over the introduction of controversial aptitude tests for medicine, a former government adviser predicted last night. Many 570- to 600-point students missed out on places this year because they did badly in the aptitude tests, which are combined with their Leaving Cert results for entry to medicine. "I have no doubt that if a student took a challenge in the courts they would have a strong case. This test was imposed on universities by the Government," Dr Sean McDonagh, former director of the Dundalk Institute of Technology and of the Government's Skills Initiative Unit, told the Irish Independent. "These students have done everything the State has told them to do. They have followed the national curriculum, taken exams and are now being told their results are not good enough. It's outrageous that a test that is not on the curriculum is being used to select for medicine and nothing else," he said.  Fairness "Non-curricular tests would seem to violate the State's policies on fairness and social mobility," he said, adding that disadvantaged students could not afford the fees charged for preparatory courses. The Health Professions Admissions Test (HPAT) website insists that intensive preparation is not advisable or necessary, although it agrees that "wide and critical reading" may provide helpful preparation for certain sections. It also states that some practice answering questions of a similar type and under similar time constraints as those found in the real tests were helpful and reassuring to most candidates. A mini industry has grown up around the HPAT-Ireland tests with a number of private colleges and other providers offering preparation courses. Among them is Dublin's Institute of Education which will run a two-day course, with fees of €350, shortly before the 2010 HPAT-Ireland exam to be held on Saturday January 27. A spokesman said it had received positive feedback from students who did the course last spring. Hewitt College in Cork provides its students with at least one hour a week of preparation for HPAT and the cost is included in the school fees. Principal Patricia McGrath said preparation "certainly will help to enhance your score". She added: "A prepared student is likely to feel more confident on the day of the HPAT exam. Each section has certain pitfalls and traps, and if your preparation has allowed you to identify even one of these, then that extra point or two may make all the difference." She said sections one and three did require an aptitude in the areas of spatial awareness, logical reasoning and lateral thinking, and if a student was not strong in these areas, a HPAT score that would gain entry to medicine, might be very difficult to achieve. An Australian-based company, ozimed.com, which provides preparation courses in Australia, the UK and Ireland, insists HPAT preparation does work and it has helped hundreds of students enter graduate medicine programmes. The HPAT approach may be used in other courses in future. A spokesperson for the Department of Education last night said there was a commitment in the Programme for Government to "evaluate the success of the new alternative entry arrangements for medical education with a view to determining if similar changes should be made in the application procedures for other high-points courses". 
