medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent 
    November 29 2007 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/drugs-pose-infant-poison-risk-26335204.html }
Parents are courting danger by using cough and cold products as sleeping aids for babies, an expert warned. Dr Martin Henman of the School of Pharmacy in Trinity College Dublin said pharmacists have reported parents are "uninterested" when they are advised not to use more than the recommended dosage. They appear unconcerned about the adverse side effects of over-using the products, he warned in 'The Irish Pharmacy Journal'. But subsequent requests for information about poisonings concerning drugs given to young children are still widespread. "In these situations the products are being purchased and used for their side effects, and the benefit is sought as much for the adults as for children." However, a number of these products contain ingredients which can cause heart rhythm or blood vessel problems. It prompted the FDA in the United States to recently advise parents not to give the products to infants saying they pose serious health risks. Three infant deaths in 2005 in the USA were attributed to active pharmaceutical ingredients. The FDA said children under the age of two should not use decongestants and those under age six should not be given antihistamine medicines. But Mr Henman said pharmacists here have found that none of the health service or medicines bodies have acknowledged there could be a problem. "This type of misuse is hard to substantiate as the US experience shows, and may only come to light after a tragic event is publicised and other cases investigated. "Poisonings with medicines in young children continue to occur in this country and requests for information about poisoning in this age group, almost two thirds of which concern drugs, make up over 40pc of the total enquiries to the National Poisons Information Service in Dublin." He called for a public information campaign about the use of non-prescription cough and cold medicines. In older children these products can be very beneficial. He also urged the Health Service Executive (HSE) to begin working with frontline health workers such as GPs to advise them on the proper use of the products in infants. He urged pharmacists to follow guidelines: l Check the lowest age limit for the use of the medicine; l Only give the recommended dose; l Use single ingredient products where possible; l Do not use more than one product to treat symptoms of coughs and colds; l Give the medicines in small amounts to prevent choking; l Confirm the person giving the medicine understands the instructions. In a separate article, pharmacist Kate O' Flaherty reminded colleagues that children are not small adults. 
