medicine
{  
    May 20 2007 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/patients-angry-at-gp-silence-over-potentially-deadly-drug-26291765.html }
NIAMH HORAN THERE are concerns that some patients who were taking a painkilling drug withdrawn from sale in Ireland last week are unaware that it could be life-threatening. The osteoarthritis drug Nimesulide, also known as Aulin and Mesulid, was dramatically removed from shelves by the Irish Medicines Board (IMB) after three patients who were on the medicine died following liver failure. Fifty-three liver-related adverse reaction reports have been recorded since the drug was first licensed here in 1995. These included nine cases of liver failure, six of which originated from the National Liver Transplant Unit. Three of these cases resulted in death and the Irish Medicines Board (IMB) is said to be aware of an additional liver-related fatality. Nimesulide is an anti-inflammatory medicine used in the treatment of acute pain, the symptomatic treatment of painful osteoarthritis and period pains. Despite the danger, one patient in his thirties who wishes to remain anonymous told the Sunday Independent that neither his docto nor his pharmacist have contacted him to tell him to cease taking the medication. "I was prescribed the tablets after telling my doctor that I had been experiencing severe pain in the backs of my legs. I have been taking the medicine twice a day for a couple of months, and I'm really scared that they could have had an adverse effect on me. "What really annoys me is that I am still waiting for a call from both my consultant and my pharmacist to tell me to stop taking it. Both of them have my contact details and yet both of them have failed to pick up the phone to warn me about the dangers of the drug and tell me to come off it. "Only for the fact that I was lucky enough to hear a radio report saying that the drug had to be withdrawn, I'd still be taking it now. That's what makes me really angry. "What worries me as well is the amount of people out there who are on the drug, especially elderly people, who haven't heard the news reports and, like me, haven't had any call from their doctor telling them to come off it. There could be people out there who are still taking a drug which could be killing them." He continued: "Now that I've stopped taking the tablets the pain has returned, and I've to wait another four weeks to get an appointment with my doctor so that I can get another prescription. It's absolutely ridiculous. I feel the very least I'm owed is a free liver test." Meanwhile Dr Joan Gilvarry, Director of Human Medicine at the IMB, says that cases like the Nimesulide incident are unavoidable. "All drugs have side effects. It's because of the continuous monitoring of them that we pick up any new data that emerges when they're being used over a prolonged period of time or in different patient groups." Any patient who is currently on the oral tablet or granule form of the medicine is advised to contact their pharmacist for advice. Gels are not affected. 
