medicine
{ Tom Tuite 
    July 22 2013 01:17 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/courts/two-men-accused-of-selling-viagra-style-products-to-face-trial-29438553.html }
TWO practitioners of traditional Chinese medicine are to face trial in a Dublin court for illegally selling prescription controlled Viagra-like products. The prosecution at Dublin District Court has been brought by the Irish Medicines Board (IMB), which had carried out an inspection at a premises called Dr Acupuncture, at the Nutgrove Shopping Centre, in Rathfarnham. WDZ Partnership Ltd which has a business address at Henry Street in Dublin, and its directors Ms Hui Wang and Mr Peng Zhang, who both reside at Portland Street in Dublin city-centre faces summons for breaking medicinal products regulations. The IMB alleges that prescription controlled medicines were on sale at the Dr Acupuncture premises on April 6, 2011. The pair and their company are accused of stocking medicines containing the active ingredient Sibutramine which used in slimming tablets. It is also claimed that they stocked various other medicines, including products called “Strong Lion Viagra” and “Hard In the End”, which contained the active ingredient Sildenafil. Sildenafil is used to treat erectile dysfunction, confined to prescription control and requires advise of a medical practitioner. It can cause serious side effects for people suffering from heart problems and can also result in headaches, stomach-aches and visual problems. It is also alleged that the defendants advertised a herbal Viagra medicine which had the ingredient Tadalafil, another drug used in the treatment of impotence. Each of the defendants face 15 counts and at their first appearance at Dublin District Court their lawyer asked for an adjournment and for a discovery order to be made. Solicitor Ronan O'Neill, for the IMB, told the judge that there would be disclosure of the prosecution's evidence to the defence and there was consent to the case being adjourned. Judge John O'Neill ordered the two company directors, who have not yet entered pleas, to appear again in October. The charges, on conviction, can result maximum fines of €2,000 as well sentences of up to 12 months imprisonment per offence. Online Editors 
