medicine
{ Margaret Donnelly 
    September 20 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/uks-attitude-to-animal-medicine-prescription-held-up-as-example-for-us-25898692.html }
IRELAND should follow the UK's lead on prescription only medicines (POMs) and categorise different animal medicines in a tiered distribution system, the Animal and Plant Health Association has said. Declan O'Brien, APHA director, said any unnecessary tightening of the regulations governing the distribution of animal medicines in the Irish market would "stifle competition . . . and could lead to increased production costs." He was speaking at the APHA conference, Food Regulation and Consumer Tastes, last week in Blessington, Co Wicklow. John Fitzgerald, policy director of the UK's Veterinary Medicines Directorate, told the conference that not only was the UK rewriting all its animal medicine legislation, it was reviewing the legislation governing the distribution of animal medicines. The UK system will have three levels, POM-V, POM-VPM, and POM-NFAM. The first tier, POM-V, will include medicines that can only be prescribed by a registered veterinary surgeon, following a diagnosis. The prescription may be dispensed by any registered veterinary surgeon or registered pharmacist. It will include current POMs and some prescription products for food producing animals. Administration of these POMs is only allowed with the supervision of the prescribing vet. The second tier, POM-VPM, will include medicines that can be prescribed and supplied by a registered qualified person, such as a vet, pharmacist, or a suitably qualified person. Prior diagnosis is not required for these medicines, but the person prescribing the medicines must be satisfied the person administrating them is competent to do so. Tier three, POM-NFAM, will include medicines which can be supplied without a prescription from a qualified person. The medicines in this category will include those for animals not destined for human consumption. Mr Fitzgerald said the UK hoped to have the new legislation in place, after consultations, by November 2005. Declan O'Brien said a sufficient range of professionals must be allowed to write prescriptions for certain routine medicines. He said APHA had held discussions with UCD to establish a course which would allow certain trade professionals, such as those who currently worked in agri-merchants, to be trained to handle and sell a range of medicines. "This approach will ensure that high standards are maintained and that sufficient competition exists in the marketplace." He said there was cross-industry support for legislation which would allow such trained professionals to prescribe certain products. 
