medicine
{  
    July 09 2010 08:34 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/lifestyle/ralph-stuck-to-his-guns-to-turn-his-dream-into-reality-27636082.html }
'IT WAS at the ripe old age of six that I decided that I wanted to become an acupuncturist,' explains Arklow-based practitioner Ralph Ó Tuathail, the well-travelled grandson of a Wicklow TD. A man who knew his own mind from that tender age never faltered from his dream, despite being disillusioned along the way, once by a career guidance teacher who didn't believe he wanted to stundy the ancient Chinese therapy in which patients have needles stuck into them as a remedy for medical complaints. 'My mother suffered from back problems when I was a child and she went to Ronnie Turner for treatment. Having six children, of whom my brother and I were pretty busy; I noticed the difference acupuncture brought to her.' 'At that time when I was growing up in Stillorgan few people were practicing acupuncture so when Ronnie Turner went on the Late Late Show to talk to Gay Byrne everyone knew him. She would come back full of the joys and, in all my innocence, I wanted to do what made my mother feel better.' Throughout his adolescence, Ralph continued on his quest for knowledge of how to become an acupuncturist and, despite initially being kicked out of the school career guidance office, was not deterred. 'The teacher in charge of career guidance threw me out of the office and thought I was taking the mick,' says Ralph. 'I knew before I left primary school what I wanted to do so, in second year, I approached him for information. At our second meeting, he began to take me seriously and offered me the only information available at the time; a page and a half brochure.' Ralph was informed that if he wanted to study Chinese Medicine that he had two options: to travel to a college in Canada which he was not entirely convinced existed or to move to China for five years without the option of coming home in the interim. 'This sounded very unthinkable to me. I was always very close to my family and I thought that, if I couldn't bear to leave them for so long, I must not want it badly enough. I became disillusioned with schooling as, in my heart of hearts, I knew this was the thing I wanted most and it seemed very unattainable.' Ralph's second love was An Ghaeilge and at the age of 13 he took the decision to change his name to the Irish spelling Ó Tuathail rather than O'Toole. 'Irish came easy to me and I loved learning the language and enjoyed the cultural aspects. I attended Coláiste na bhFiann and ended up working for them promoting Irish for a number of years.' While he enjoyed his work through Irish, Ralph admits he was unfulfilled and it wasn't until a friend noticed a change in his usual ambition and energy that 'something clicked' and he realised that he still wanted to train in Chinese Medicine. 'It was just one of those moments. A friend said 'where is your spark gone?' and asked me what was I always going on about in school that I wanted to do. I thought: 'how could I forget?' I picked up the phone and started a Diploma at the Acupuncture Foundation of Ireland three weeks later and never looked back.' In 1996, at the age of 24, having qualified in Ireland it was a case of 'next-stop China' and Ralph set off for what would become the trip of a lifetime and a complete eye-opener in professional and life skills. While at AFI, Ralph had managed to convince the course director to allow him volunteer at his clinic so, having practiced under supervision for the best part of a year, he felt ready for the challenges that China would present. 'That was a huge vote of confidence that he showed in me and it definitely helped me feel more confident as an acupuncturist.' While completing internships at the Jian Ye TC and Nanjing Municipal Hospitals by day, it was all about studying by night for Ralph who says that he enjoyed every minute of his time there. 'I loved it. It was just phenomenal. I loved the Chinese people but needed to be prepared for their background and the different subtleties of behaviour I would encounter.' After receiving his Licentiate from Nanjing University, Ralph set off to do some travelling before returning home to Ireland. 'I decided that the best way was to do it alone. It is the best way to meet people and put the emphasis on you to make an effort to talk to others along the way. I travelled across China, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, and Malaysia. 'Understanding people is a very important aspect of Chinese Medicine and meeting people and learning to understand them is all part of this. Your norms are what you take the world to be so therefore your starting point is so different from those who lead a different way of life.' Despite having a very close family network including his parents James O'Toole, (son of Wicklow TD, James O'Toole) of The Harbour Bar, Bray and Rita Mortell of Putland Road, Bray originally, Ralph said that he always had an independent personality which enabled his decision on his career path to be easily made. 'Of course my family were always behind me but I think that I knew what I wanted to do so it was a case that I decided and that was it. It wasn't like I needed approval. Once I set my mind to it I knew acupuncture was what I wanted to study.' Now settled in Monaseed, Co. Wexford, with wife Olivia and children Lily (8) and Oscar (2) Ralph enjoys a formidable way of life, which he admits he had to consciously decide to cultivate. 'At the beginning I was working around the clock, running two clinics and pretty much overdoing it. With the recession things have slowed down a touch and everything is more balanced now which is wonderful.' Although a popular aspect of Chinese Medicine is Tai Chi and movement, Ralph says his chosen 'down time' includes simply kicking a football around with the kids and enjoying time with his family. Testament to his dedication to his family, things have come full circle and he now offers acupuncture to his mother, Rita (sister of former Irish Rugby International Maurice Mortell), who sadly suffered a stroke in recent months. At The Blessings Clinic on Arklow's North Quay, a tranquil setting is used where patients can meet with Ralph and other practitioners to avail of acupuncture and Chinese Herbal medicine. 'Herbal medicine is very user-specific and the practitioner must know what they are doing. There are certain blends available that are suitable for general symptoms but, more often than not, the herbalist will make it up especially for the patient to treat their individual symptoms.' 'The experts in China say one has to be doing it for 30 years to be getting good at it so I still have my L Plates up! I have done 16 years so there is still plenty of learning to be done.' As good as his word, Ralph is embarking on a Masters in Classical Chinese Medicine in September. 
