medicine
{  
    September 03 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/localnotes/is-there-a-doctor-in-the-house-27440353.html }
TIndeed two of them are in fact real-life sisters Mona and Eileen Maher from Anngrove, Roscrea. They live approximately 60 miles apart. They have spent thirty-one and thirty-five years respectively working there. They work in the fields of education and medicine with the local natives.They run what you would call a roaming clinic there, covering seven villages, which caters f TIndeed two of them are in fact real-life sisters Mona and Eileen Maher from Anngrove, Roscrea. They live approximately 60 miles apart. They have spent thirty-one and thirty-five years respectively working there. They work in the fields of education and medicine with the local natives. They run what you would call a roaming clinic there, covering seven villages, which caters for around 500 patients. These people are too far away from hospital to ever reach it to get treatment. Here the sisters work diligently, visiting each community once a fortnight. The “clinic” operates on a rotating basis – just like the country station masses sometimes here in Ireland – it’s in a different house in the village on each visit. No luxurious private clinic – the floor of the house is swept and cleared. Those seeking treatment come from the surrounding countryside – often travelling long distances – the weakest patients often collapsing on the floor as they arrive. The sisters and nurses administer whatever treatment they can. Regular treatments are those for malaria and AIDS, just to mention two known here in Ireland. It is hard for us to imagine, but like many places throughout the world – and particularly in the African Continent, AIDS patients are getting younger. It is not uncommon for children to be born suffering from the disease or to contract it while still in their pre-teen years. Sister Mona states that when a person in the family gets AIDS, particularly a child, the parents often have to make a cruel decision in how they spend the little money they might have – on either educating a well child or on medicine for the sick one. In many cases, it’s the sick one that is left to die slowly, untreated. The Daughters of Mary and Joseph are bringing help to these poor people by way of medicine and food. Sister Mona says that in the early days of the clinic, they just brought medicine, part of which would be regular vitamins to build up the sick person. As this medicine took effect, the patients would regain their appetites, but as they had no decent food to eat, they often became sick again. Therefore the Sisters give food parcels to the patients as well as the medicine and find this to be the best treatment overall. This all costs money – none of which they receive from any government body either here or in Uganda. The one time they were granted assistance from the Ugandan government, a local official used it for himself and so they got nothing! He did go to jail, but there was no money left for the Daughters of Mary and Joseph. All their work is financed therefore from charitable donations received from members of the public – which means the Sisters have to go looking for support, using time that they would prefer to spend helping the people. The cost of treating patients there is so little compared to here. For example, for the cost of one visit to the doctor’s clinic here, the Daughters of Mary and Joseph could treat a patient for a whole year! The cost of treating an AIDS patient is only ?20 per year. A malaria patient costs about ?5 per annum to treat. The whole roaming clinic costs in the region of ?15,000 to run for a year. This includes the salaries of nurses and lay staff that are part of the project team, together with transport costs. It amounts to about ?30 per patient per year. So you see, a little money here goes such a long way over there. Should you wish to contribute to the cause, an account called the Uganda Mission Fund has been opened in Roscrea Credit Union a/c No. 014918D. You may lodge any amount however small to it. You can also contact members of the Maher family, Tadhg or Sister Mona at 0505 21681 or Ms Evelyn Hennessy, Derrymore 0505 21565 for further details and to give donations personally. As Sister Mona is returning to Uganda in early October and we would like to send some money back with her, a variety concert is arranged for September 24 (Friday) in Grants Hotel beginning at 8pm as a fundraising venture. A host of local artistes will perform. A detailed list will be published next week. Watch out for the posters around the town. Tickets for the concert are on sale costing ?10 for adults and ?5 for children. You can see how much the purchasing of a ticket can help treat a patient or educate a child out there. Have a great family night out and help somebody by attending this great event. 
