medicine
{ Mairead McGuinness 
    February 17 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/new-rules-on-animal-medicines-26016913.html }
FARMERS will no longer get veterinary medicines, including intramammaries, over the counter following a major review of the Veterinary Medicines Legislation. Mastitis tubes will, in future, require a prescription, but there will not be a requirement for a veterinary practitioner to examine animals before prescribing. The review will also provide for a wider availability of certain veterinary products through licensed merchants, including co-ops. The review, announced by Agriculture and Food Minister Joe Walsh, removes the general requirement on veterinary practitioners to clinically examine animals before prescribing. At the same time, it is intended to retain the requirement for a bone fida relationship between practitioner and client as the context within which prescriptions will be issued. In future, vets will have to, in all cases, issue written prescriptions. If the practitioner supplies the medicine, then separate invoices for the product and the veterinary service must be issued. Amendment of the 1996 regulations to remove the exception for intramammaries from the general rule on antibiotics and also to decouple intramammaries from the Poisons Legislation is proposed. This has been criticised by the ICMSA's dairy committee chairman, Dominic Cronin. "The removal of the exception for intramammaries is of serious concern to dairy farmers in particular," he said. He is also worried about the cost implications of the review for farmers. IFA president John Dillon said the proposals are overly restrictive and will have serious cost and management implications for livestock farmers. ICOS representatives met the Department yesterday on the review and broadly welcomed the thrust of the proposals, particularly the proposal that Licensed Merchants should, with certain exceptions, be permitted to supply prescribed veterinary medicines. ICOS Livestock Services Executive, TJ Flanagan said however, that further clarification was still required on certain issues. The review allows for prescribed veterinary medicines, with certain exceptions, to be supplied by licensed merchant outlets as well as pharmacies and veterinarians. Such exceptions would, for example, apply to injectable antibiotics and sedatives. Removal of the prescription-only exempt category is also proposed. 
