medicine
{  
    October 10 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/safe-medicines-guide-launched-27819857.html }
Roundwood councillor and chairman of the East Coast Area Health Board, Andrew Doyle, has launched a new policy document on the safe administration of medicines for older people. The launch took place on Tuesday at St Colman's Hospital in Rathdrum in the presence of management, members and staff of the health board. Entitled 'Guidelines for the Safe Administration of Medicines Within Services for Older People', the document was drawn up following an extensive consultation process with over 200 healthcare professionals, a review of international literature and an independent expert review. Nurses working in long-stay care for older people can now use these guidelines. 'The East Coast Area Health Board demonstrates its commitment to best practice in medicine administration through developing these comprehensive guidelines', commented Cllr Doyle at the launch. 'The input of both practitioners and national experts give them academic and clinical credibility. The inclusive approach used is extremely progressive and, I believe, has resulted in top-class customer-focussed guidelines that will help ensure that best practice is followed in administering medications.' The risks associated with overuse of drugs by older people, known as polypharmacy, can lead to a reduction in their quality of life, increase their risk of side-incidents such as fall and accidents, and increase both morbidity and mortality. Conversely, under-treating patients reflects an inequitable approach to caring for older people, as this client group can benefit from active approaches to medical management of such conditions as heart attack, irregular heart rate and stroke. In addition to correct and appropriate prescribing practices, it's essential that staff administering medicines have a comprehensive knowledge of all aspects of medicines management, and work to a given policy. 
