medicine
{  
    September 05 2008 02:28 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/skerries-holiday-to-rome-was-the-best-medicine-for-student-27788429.html }
Top of the class in Fingal in terms of her Leaving Certificate results was a Skerries student who is now set to go on to pursue a career in medicine. Sinead Newsholme was the pride of Skerries Community College when the results came out recently to reveal a staggering eight A1s for the Skerries student. Sinead was one of only 13 students in the entire country with eight A1s or better and was the highest scoring student in Fingal. Skerries Community College principal, Kevin O’Riordan, and his staff were immensely proud of the star student’s achievement as they were of all the Skerries students who applied themselves so well to their exams and were rewarded with good results. The reward for Sinead’s hard work came in the shape of a holiday with eight schoolfriends to Rome and Venice – a fantastic experience for the young students. On her return, Sinead spoke to the Fingal Independent after some of the most dramatic and exciting days of the young girl’s life. She was preparing for her debs night in Wicklow as she spoke about her shock and delight at her astounding performance in the Leaving Certificate exams. ‘I didn’t think I would do as well as that,’ a modest Sinead said as she professed to being ‘very excited’ about pursuing a career in medicine. An offer from the CAO for her first choice of medicine in UCD has already been offered to and accepted by the Skerries student. ‘It was between medicine and music but I settled on medicine in the end,’ Sinead said. The star student is also an accomplished actor and singer and plays the violin. Proving that you do not to have to lock yourself in your room for two years to achieve great exam results, Sinead also played the lead this year in her school’s production of Seven Brides for Seven Brothers. ‘I did study very hard but I did other things as well. I did work very had but you don’t have to give up everything,’ the Skerries high achiever said. After all that hard work, the Skerries student and her friends deserved their European holiday and the celebrations that followed last Wednesday when the school held its debs celebrations in Wicklow. 
