medicine
{ Caitriona Murphy 
    September 05 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/black-market-warning-as-animal-health-medicines-debate-hots-up-25964892.html }
THE Department of Agriculture's proposed regulations for veterinary medicines could lead to the development of a black market for animal health drugs, the IFA has warned. Proposed changes in veterinary legislation were overly bureaucratic, unworkable and would have serious cost and management implications for farmers, the association's animal health chairman, Michael Flynn, said. "Failure to amend these proposed regulations will see veterinary costs escalate, resulting in an increase in the use of therapeutic substances, the potential for the development of a black market for drugs, a lowering of animal welfare standards," said Mr Flynn. "The proposals will escalate veterinary costs by up to ?80m per annum and will place an intolerable burden on dairy and livestock farmers while at the same time do nothing to benefit consumers." A survey carried out by the IFA animal health committee has shown that the cost of medicines restricted to the prescription-only (POM) regime has increased by 100-400pc. For example, 100ml of Alamycin 10pc costs ?2.30-3/bottle (excluding VAT) but retails to farmers at ?8-10/bottle, a mark-up of 340-430pc. At present, Irish farmers spend approximately ?125m per annum on animal remedies. It was conceivable that farmers would have to pay an additional ?60-80m per annum for veterinary medicines, Mr Flynn said. The Animal and Plant Health Association (APHA) will be submitting its recommendations to the Department of Agriculture in the coming week. Chief among their concerns about the proposed regulations is the limitation of prescriptions to veterinary professionals only. The ideal situation would be for professionals such as agriculture graduates to take a course of further study which would enable them to prescribe preventative veterinary medicines such as drenches and wormers, said APHA director Brendan Barnes. "We will be arguing strongly that the 'Suitably Qualified Person' in the veterinary regulations should not be interpreted as solely veterinary professionals," he said. Farmers were recognised as professional users of veterinary medicine and therefore should be aware of and entitled to information on veterinary products, something which the proposals would prevent, said the APHA man. "Under the proposals, farmers will no longer be able to pick up information leaflets or posters at their co-op because these are classed as advertising," he said. The veterinary proposals could go the way of the nitrates directive, he warned. "We saw what happened with the nitrates directive when the changes were not made before the directive came into place and now we can only appeal for derogations from the action plan. We need to make sure the same thing doesn't happen with the veterinary rules." The statutory instrument bringing the directive into effect is due to be introduced by the end of October. 
