medicine
{  
    June 30 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/ireland-to-avail-of-eu-exemption-in-prescription-only-medicines-25937078.html }
PROPOSALS to exempt some medicines, used in food producing animals,  from a 'prescription only' status have been welcomed by the Minister for Agriculture. However, the Animal and Plant Health Association have cautioned that the value of this exemption will be dependant on the range of products that are in fact exempted. APHA president Declan O'Brien said if the range is less than the current range of medicines available it will be less than satisfactory. The European Commission has agreed that Member States may grant exemptions from the 'prescription only' principle and Minister Joe Walsh said this would impact positively on the agricultural sector in Ireland. The EU had proposed to make all medicines used in food producing animals prescription only, which would have meant that every animal would need to be clinically examined by a vet before a medicine could be bought. According to the Minister, Joe Walsh, the Commission has also agreed to a general transition period which may last up to the beginning of 2007. The Minister said it is his intention that Ireland would avail to the maximum extent of the exemption provisions consistent with the need to protect public and animal health and will actively pursue this objective with the Commission. The move has been welcomed here by ICOS and the Animal and Plant Health Association. The legislation now goes back to the European Parliament and to the Member States for a second round of consultations. The objective at the next consultation will be to get clear agreement that all of the products which are currently available through the licensed merchant route will remain available through that route, according to Declan O'Brien, president of APHA. ICOS president Donal Cashman said Ireland has a sophisticated network of regulated, licensed merchant outlets. "These outlets have sufficient training and reporting structures in place to provide maximum assurance and protection for consumers, while providing nationwide inexpensive access to veterinary medicines, thereby protecting animal welfare," he said. 
