medicine
{ Declan O'BrienAnimal &amp; Plant Health Association (APHA) 
    March 08 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/who-will-write-the-prescription-for-a-sick-animal-when-the-veterinary-directive-comes-in-25993824.html }
THE Minister for Agriculture and Food and her Department officials are due to open consultations with stakeholders in relation to the implementation of the Veterinary Directive. One of the key issues for the distribution chain is the question of who will be able to write a prescription for which product. The directive leaves it open to the Department to decide. The Minister has the option to limit prescription writing to veterinary surgeons or to allow certain medicines to be the subject of a prescription written by veterinary surgeons and a range of other professional persons qualified to do so. A broad coalition of stakeholders, including the Acorn Group, APHA, ASA, FARM, IAHA, ICOS, ICSA, IFA and the IPU, are calling on the Minister to allow persons other than veterinary surgeons to write prescriptions for the products that are currently available through the co-ops and merchants. The range of products would include wormers, lice control, sheep dip, fluid replacement therapy, vitamins, minerals and certain vaccines. The seriousness of the situation is highlighted by the fact that such a wide coalition of interested parties have come together on the issue. A lot of the concern is driven by the reality that the UK will allow pharmacists and suitably qualified merchants to write prescriptions for the range of products that are currently available through the UK merchants. If the Irish system is more restrictive, the coalition of stakeholders fear the development of a very significant black market. Apart from this being bad for their business, they also argue that the existence, or even the suggestion of the existence, of a black market is very bad for the food export image of Ireland. They expect large volumes of medicines to come in from Northern Ireland but also from Wales and England. On the cost front, the coalition of stakeholders is concerned at the development of monopolies or anti-competitive practices in the market. As in any market, the stakeholders argue that as competition decreases, prices rise. They say that this is contrary to the aspirations of the government to keep as many viable farmers on the land as is possible. They argue that every cost increase, however minor, results in more farmers leaving the land. In terms of food safety, the residue results from the Department of Agriculture and Food paint a very good picture at present. The coalition of stakeholders argues that food safety will not be compromised by their proposals as they are, in fact, more restrictive than the current situation where prescriptions, from whatever source, are not required for the medicines available through the co-ops and merchants. In recognition of the fact that it is inappropriate to introduce a prescription regime for products such as teat dips, the possibility exists for any Member State to seek exemptions from the prescription regime. The exemption option can be triggered by a Member State such as Ireland proposing that product X, Y or Z should be exempted. This proposal will be considered by a committee representing the 25 Member States and the Commission. If the application is successful, the medicine may be exempted in the country applying for the exemption as well as in any country that chooses to avail of the exemption. However, it is anticipated that very few medicines will make it into the exempted list. In the discussions leading up to the agreement on the directive, a wide range of Member States indicated opposition to the inclusion of almost all of the products that are available through the co-ops and merchants being included in the exempted list. The exceptions may be oral vitamins and minerals and teat dips. It is anticipated that very little else will make it into the exempted list. Another aspect of the directive that is of particular concern relates to advertising. The directive requires that advertising cannot be aimed at the general public. The coalition of stakeholders is anxious to ensure that the farmer is regarded as a professional person operating a business and that advertising of all medicines should be allowed at anybody involved in the animal health business. As such, publications directed primarily at veterinary surgeons, pharmacists, co-ops, merchants and farmers should be allowed to continue to carry advertising for all veterinary medicines. The coalition of stakeholders argues that it is important that all parties in the animal health business have access to information via various routes, including advertising, as this allows people to become aware of new products and new uses of existing products and this in turn stimulates innovation and competition in the marketplace. The directive is due to be implemented into Irish law by October 2005. As such, the consultation period is already short. Having published the legislation, the possibility exists for the Department to write in a time period by which any changes in the distribution system may be introduced. At the latest, a prescription regime must be introduced by January 2007. 
