medicine
{  
    December 16 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/tougher-rules-ordered-on-hazardous-medicine-26200985.html }
Health Minister Brian Cowen at yesterday's press conference at the Department of Health.STRICT new instructions were issued yesterday to ensure the Department of Health is immediately told of any moves to recall potentially hazardous medicinal products. Health Minister Brian Cowen said he will be the ``first to be informed'' if there is any recall similar to that of the product used to detect lung problems which was possibly contaminated with the human form of mad cow disease. He was responding to strong criticism levelled against the Irish Medicines Board which failed to inform the Department until November 27 of the product recall it began on November 18. Mr Cowen hit back at attacks on his own Department's decision not to tell some 270 patients who were injected with the product until this week. He said the Department acted as ``prudently and sensitively'' as possible given that the risk of disease transmission is extremely low and there is no way of diagnosing it and no cure. A final decision ``on principle'' to inform the patients was not made until last Friday in consultation with Dr William Hall, chairman of the CJD advisory committee. Details on how this will be completed are being finalised. In Britain where up to 3,000 may have received the suspect product, the Ministry of Health, as well as the equivalent departments in Sweden and Denmark, have opted not to tell patients. It was learned yesterday that Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children in Crumlin is among the nine hospitals where the suspect UK-made Amerscan Pulmonate 11 was used between July and November. The other Dublin hospitals are St James's, the Mater and the Meath. Patients in Cork University and Galway University hospitals as well as the Limerick Regional and Merlin Park hospitals in Galway received the product used by radiologists to picture the lung. The consensus from medical experts and the Department of Health yesterday was that the risk to patients is extremely low. It also emerged yesterday that the Department was first informed about the suspect product on November 26 by Cork neuropathologist Dr Catherine Keohane, a member of the CJD committee which advises the Department. A full report was not received from the Medicines Board until the following day. The Irish Medicines Board yesterday stood over the delay in giving a report saying it put a full-scale alert in place to stop the use of the product immediately on November 19 and ordered that each suspect batch be physically seized. Each of the hospitals are to be asked to ensure the patient's consultant meets the patient individually and an information pack has been prepared for information and counselling. Brian Dowling writes: Minister Cowen was being blamed last night for the ``indefensible failure'' to notify patients who received the blood product at the centre of the latest scare. Opposition parties have tabled Private Notice Questions to the Minister for Health today seeking a full explanation of his role and that of the Department of Health and the Irish Medicines Board (IMB). Fine Gael health spokesman Alan Shatter said the failure of communications by the minister, his Department and the IMB concerning the potentially contaminated batch of Amerscan Pulmonate 11 agent was indefensible. Mr Shatter said the minister should have acted more promptly to contact the recipients of the product. Labour's health spokeswoman Roisin Shortall also criticised the minister's response to the latest blood product controversy as inadequate. Deputy Shortall said the people exposed to the new product had a right to know about it prior to it being reported in the media. Democratic Left health spokeswoman Liz McManus said the response of the Department of Health so far has been feeble and shrouded in obfuscation. 
