medicine
{ EILISH O'REGAN 
    April 28 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/drugs-industry-advises-spending-more-on-medicine-26154710.html }
THE life expectancy of Irish people one of the lowest in the EU could be dramatically improved if more money was spent on medicines, a conference organised by the pharmaceutical industry was told yesterday. A study by the University of California found that life expectancy of a 60-year-old woman in Ireland could be increased by a year if an additional sum of around £6,500 was spent on medicines for her. Brian Murphy, commercial affairs manager of the Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association also argued medical card patients are being denied new medicines because the cost would upset cash agreements between health authorities and GPs, who are offered incentives to keep down their drugs bills. However, according to Mr Murphy, little account is taken of the hidden costs of people not getting optimum drug treatment. These are borne out in lost work days, sick pay and increased hospital stays. Ways in which a more effective return can be achieved from current spending could be the targeting of self-medication for minor ailments and better patient compliance in taking medicines as directed. He credited medical therapies with helping to halve the death rate from cardiovascular diseases over the past three decades and nearly halving the number of AIDS-related deaths in the US in 1997. However, Trinity College economist Sean Barrett told the conference that claims that Ireland `underspends' on health compared to other OECD countries are not supported by evidence. ``This year, GDP will be 73pc greater than in 1990. Real health expenditures will be 93pc greater, outstripping the Celtic Tiger by a full 20 points. The relative growth of health expenditure compared to GNP in the 1990s shows that the current GNP share spent on health services is over 10pc.'' He pointed out that in the 1980s ``the proportion of the UK population over 65 years was 14.9pc compared to 10.8pc in Ireland. Yet in the 1980s hospital admission rates in Ireland were a third greater than in the UK. Therefore, Ireland needs health economics. The rate of growth of health service expenditure in Ireland is excessive.'' He said in his view there is a far lower return in targeting drug costs for savings than hospitals and staff costs.  The conference was also told that the pharmaceutical industry is facing a skills shortage, as fewer students are studying chemistry and physics. 
