medicine
{ John  Walshe 
    August 27 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/medicine-in-my-dna-says-hillery-26561519.html }
"MEDICINE must be in my DNA," says Dr John Hillery, whose father, the late president Paddy Hillery, grandfather and two aunts were all doctors. "My father inherited the practice from his father and when he went into politics my aunt took it over so I was brought up in medicine," Dr Hillery, who ran for the Seanad in 2007, said. And the tradition is being carried on into the fourth generation as his own son, also called Paddy, is taking the graduate route into medicine. Dr Hillery (52) understands why some Leaving Certificate students who have very high points can be reluctant to pursue a long course in medicine. "Some may feel that it's a snobby profession where they might not fit in but for others it's a long time before they start earning," he said. "I was lucky as I had the emotional and financial support from my family to study medicine", said the former president of the Medical Council, who notes that the current registration charge of €1,500 is higher than the fees he paid in the Royal College of Surgeons when he started studying there in 1976. Others, he believes, are not so lucky and feel they have to take shorter courses and start earning, rather than depend on their parents for a very long course of studies. The length of time it takes to qualify as a doctor and start earning money would force some young people into taking out loans which they could be reluctant to do. It could also, he thinks, steer them away from specialisations in essential areas such as psychiatry or working with people with disabilities where the money may not be as good. Even if they did specialise they would be under pressure to go into more lucrative areas to earn money quicker to pay back debts. Dr Hillery's own area is in intellectual disability. He is a consultant psychiatrist to Stewarts Hospital, to the Hospitaller Order of St John of God Kildare Services and to Tallaght Mental Health Services. 
