medicine
{  
    August 15 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/martin-backs-cannabis-for-medicinal-use-26077245.html }
THE GROWING consensus that cannabis should be  legalised for supervised medicinal use received another endorsement yesterday when Minster for Health Micheal Martin supported the measure. The Department of Health said the minister is on record as saying he would give serious consideration to the granting of a licence which would involve research for the therapeutic use of cannabis. He emphasised that it would have to involve circumstances where the approval of the Irish Medicines Board under the Control of Clinical Trials Act, 1987, was given . The issue has been given new impetus following comments this week by Garda Commissioner Pat Byrne, who said he saw merit in looking at whether cannabis in pharmaceutical form could be used for therapeutic purposes. Cannabis is now a banned drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act, 1977 and 1984. But it is also among the controlled drugs singled out in section 13 of the Misuse of Drugs Act, allowing for a special licence for use in research. This means the the manufacture, possession, supply and prescription of the drug is banned except under licence from the minister. GW Pharmaceuticals announced this month it has been licensed by the UK Home Office to undertake a pharmaceutical research and development programme to develop non-smoked cannabis-based prescription medicines. GW has developed sub-lingual sprays that enable the material to be absorbed directly into the blood stream via the mucosa under the tongue, rather than swallowed. The sprays contain formulations of pharmaceutical grade extracts of specific varieties of the cannabis plant. These varieties are selected for their content of two principal cannabinoids, THC and CBD. In GW's trials, test medicines comprise cannabis-based medicinal extracts consisting of different cannabinoid ratios and placebo. Specific aspects of the patients' condition are studied to demonstrate the effects of the drug and to establish a dose/response relationship. A spokesman for GW said:"Patients in these trials are clearly gaining benefit. We are seeing clinically significant improvements in a range of symptoms, including pain, muscle spasms, spasticity, bladder-related symptoms, tremor and overall improvements in quality of life. "In some cases the improvement has been sufficient to transform lives." 
