medicine
{ Dion Fanning 
    June 03 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/patients-given-a-choice-by-doctors-bloodless-coups-26254916.html }
As tales of bad blood frighten off would-be donors, Patricia Redlich points out that medicine is making great advances in the field of blood-free treatment THE Blood Transfusion Board has been making special appeals in recent weeks. Donors are no longer quite so eager to donate. Turned off by the harrowing tales coming from the haemophilia hearing on HIV and hepatitis C infection, the latest instalment in an apparently never-ending saga of bad blood stories, they are wondering if it's worth it. Some may be vaguely worried about getting infected themselves. That, of course, is not possible. Disposable needles mean that no cross-contamination can take place. For others the sense of duty the glamour, almost of doing the right thing may have become somewhat tarnished. Some may simply feel they don't want to be part of a medicine chain which seems to have so often gone so wrong. And others are beginning to feel that there must be a better way. For the immediate future, blood donations are still necessary. Our mainstream system of surgery depends on it. That said, however, there is indeed a better way, and more and more doctors are admitting it. Last month the First European Congress on Bloodless Health Care was held in Geneva, spearheaded by the Department of Anesthesiology at Zurich University and attended by surgeons from all over the world. The building blocks for that congress go back a long way. During the 1960s some of the first open-heart operations without the use of blood transfusions were performed. Doctors also had to respond to patients such as Jehovah's Witnesses, whose religion prohibited the use of other people's blood. And in recent years, the medical profession has been increasingly looking for alternatives, as Aids and hepatitis take their terrible toll. Those building blocks are also very solid. Around 180 hospitals around the world have become specialised centers of excellence in bloodless medicine and surgery. Technology, product development and the pharmaceutical industry have moved in to meet the demand. And almost everywhere, doctors and surgeons now have both the expertise and the equipment to allow patients avoid a blood transfusion. In Ireland all hospitals are sympathetic, although not all are fully equipped with the necessary technology. But all major city hospitals, particularly the teaching hospitals, are. At the very least, patients can ask. As Richard Spence, chief of the Division of Surgical Education at the State University of New York, put it: ``Bloodless medicine and surgery has come out of obscurity over the last five years to become a driving force in the practice of medicine today.'' At a very simple level, patients can donate their own blood prior to an operation, reasonably easy when the operation is planned. This is merely a question of organisation. Minimising blood loss during surgery is also important. Without the handy blood bag hanging overhead, doctors must take more care. This, of course, is also better medical practice, a good idea anyway, both for patients who then avoid being burdened with someone else's blood, and for health-care finances, as blood is an expensive medical product. Modern surgical instruments, termed haemostatic, are designed to reduce blood loss, and they help. Electrocautery involves heating a probe with electrical current and then using the probe to cauterise or seal small arteries during surgery. Similar technology is used in cutting instruments, where an electrical current cuts the skin rather than a conventional scalpel. Lasers, microwave scalpels and ultrasonic scalpels all result in less blood loss, basically because they damage less tissue than the conventional knife and help seal the wound as they go. In addition, collagen and cellulose woven pads can be used before and during surgery to control blood loss from open wounds by encouraging clotting. There are also tissue adhesives, or special biological glues made from human tissue, which will help seal wounds. There are specific drugs can be taken, to assist blood clotting and hence reduce bleeding. Blood can be salvaged and recycled during an operation or in an emergency/trauma department following an accident, by using specialised machines. Blood can also be salvaged after an operation in cases of post-operative bleeding, collected from a drainage tube in the operating room, processed, and returned to the patient. And in patients who need emergency surgery a process called haemo-dilution is often used, where several units of blood are collected from the patient immediately before surgery and replaced with what is called a non-blood volume expander. The patient's blood thus diluted, it is subsequently put back. In other words, donation of one's own blood does not have to be pre-planned. That's not, of course, the whole story. There are certain areas of medicine where intervention without transfusion appears to be difficult, if not almost impossible, for example when dealing with newborn babies. The point is, we have the possibility of choice. It would be nice to see mainstream medicine take up this challenge. Patients meanwhile should ask. Or even insist. 
