medicine
{  
    January 30 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/6400-fine-for-illegal-farm-drugs-26200036.html }
AN ANIMAL medicines supplier and his company were fined £6,400 yesterday when they pleaded guilty to possessing and selling unauthorised animal remedies. Timothy Francis Spillane of Teadies, Enniskeane, in west Cork pleaded guilty to four specimen charges of possessing or selling the medicines in 1994 and 1995. A company principally owned by Mr Spillane, Spillane Agricultural Services of Main Street, Ballineen also pleaded guilty to four similar charges over the same period. Department of Agriculture Inspector Brian Flaherty told Bandon District Court that the products for which Spillane had been summonsed had never been licensed. He and a number of colleagues visited Spillane's shop in Ballineen on August 17, 1994 and seized a number of products which, when analysed, proved to contain unauthorised medicines. Later, in 1995, he and his colleagues carried out an investigation in Waterford when a courier van arrived with a quantity of unauthorised animal medicines from Spillane. He and a colleague visited Spillane that night at his home and the following day called to his warehouse at Unit 3, Carbery Industrial Estate at Dromicdicough, Ballineen. They seized a quantity of unauthorised animal medicines and although Spillane wasn't charged with manufacturing the products, it was his belief that he had been making them there. ``I reckon it was the biggest operation of its kind in the country,'' added Mr Flaherty. Cross-examined by Spillane's barrister, Pearse Sreenan, Mr Flaherty accepted that Spillane had never attempted to hide his business, but operated openly from a public shop in Ballineen. Spillane said that he had employed a pharmacist and vet to provide expertise to his company, but that there were many grey areas regarding what products were authorised. Judge Brendan Wallace said he had to take a serious view particularly as Spillane had two previous convictions for ``not dissimilar offences'' and he had a duty to protect the public from toxins getting into the food chain. He fined Spillane and his company £800 on each charge. The maximum fine was £1,000 but he had to give him a discount for pleading guilty. He ordered him to pay £800 expenses and £400 costs.  He ordered the seized medicines to be forfeited and he warned Spillane that if he ever came before him again for any further offences, he would have no hesitation in imposing the alternative penalty jail. 
