medicine
{ Caitriona Murphy 
    March 04 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/eastern-26427723.html }
Karate used to be the only Chinese word that was regularly bandied about by Irish people, but with the Celtic Tiger came feng shui decorating for your apartment and ordering in a chow mein. Now, the fashion-conscious set have even swapped their Lyons Gold Blend for a drop of pu-erh! Our fascination with all things eastern has grown exponentially in recent years and many ancient Chinese traditions, rituals and customs are no longer shrouded in mystery but incorporated into our daily lives. But what about incorporating Chinese tradition into the daily life of your horse? Anthony Coyne, a Meath-based veterinary surgeon, is a firm believer in using traditional Chinese herbal remedies and acupuncture for his equine patients. He combines his regular work in the Athboy Veterinary Hospital with acupuncture and herbalist techniques. Trained in the conventional manner -- five years in UCD combined with seeing practice all over Ireland and the US -- Anthony says he was initially doubtful when it came to alternative medicine. "I qualified in 1994 and spent a year in Germany where I saw acupuncture being used in the horse practice I worked in. I was a sceptic, but thought it could be something to explore," he recalls. "I knew that while conventional veterinary medicine was fantastic for acute conditions, we were stumped when it came to chronic conditions." Anthony's first foray into Chinese medicine was an introductory course on herbal medicine run by a Chinese vet, Huisheng Xie, in Thurles, Co Tipperary and he followed this with courses in acupuncture and further study. "The first case that I treated with acupuncture was a thoroughbred that had a history of tying up with muscle cramps," explains Anthony. "He was on his second trainer, had been seen by three different vets from three different practices but nobody could find any solution." When Anthony tested him, the horse had creatine kinase (an enzyme released from damaged muscles) levels of over 2000iu/litre instead of the 150-200iu level considered normal. The trainer had all but given up on the horse and was about to turn him out to pasture for six months, but Anthony, eager to try out his new skills, persuaded him to give acupuncture a try. "I read up my notes, picked some points along the back, connected the needles up to my new electro acupuncture machine and turned it on. The horse literally went to sleep," he says. When the horse's rider reported back to the trainer the following day, he said the horse was moving much more freely. Anthony continued to treat the horse once a week for the following three weeks before testing his enzyme levels again. The creatine kinase level had dropped to below 250. "That horse got six acupuncture sessions in total and he never tied up again," he recalls. Was it just a coincidence or did the acupuncture fix the problem? "Because I am a natural sceptic, I like to test what I do. I like to be able to prove that what I do has a physical effect that I can test for," says the vet. "It means that I'm not trying to convince anyone that it is working, I can show them proof." When it comes to using herbs, Anthony works in partnership with a Belgian he met while on the introductory course in Thurles, and the pair have since set up their own business, the Animal Herb Company. "Gilbert de Meester is a qualified herbalist who had previously worked with human patients in Belgium, Germany and Ireland, but he was also treating their animals with herbs," explains Anthony. The products available from the Animal Herb Company range from herb blends suitable for preventing respiratory problems to digestive problems, fertility issues, calming temperamental animals and promoting healthy hoof growth. However, the vet is adamant that there is no point in using herbs for herbs' sake. "There is no point in using herbs to help a horse if you do not identify the root cause of the problem," he says. "In all cases, you must look at the physical or environmental causes of the horse's problem. For respiratory problems, that could be aspergillus spores in the hay, haylage or straw, and you must remove that," he insists. "When I assess a horse, the veterinary treatment always comes first. If the horse is lame, I will use all the usual methods to find out what's wrong and fix it -- X-rays, nerve blocks, pain killers and everything else," he says. "But you can then use herbs to help the treatment and prevent the problem recurring again." When presented with a sick horse, the vet assesses everything from general demeanour to condition, work history and feeding history, before palpating the animal to find the root cause of the pain. That is what he has been trained to do in conventional veterinary medicine. "But I also have my eye open for what are known in Chinese medicine as patterns -- a liver pattern, a kidney pattern or digestive pattern," he explains. Highly strung "A horse with a liver pattern is a highly-strung, hyper, full-on horse that has tight muscles," he says. "They are usually on a high-protein feed and are very susceptible to stress and the resulting stomach ulcers. "Horses have been taken from the wild and put in stables on high-protein diets that they would never have eaten in their own habitat. Some horses can cope with that but others are not able to handle it -- they have what we call a liver pattern. "In contrast, a horse that displays a kidney pattern is a nervous, timid type of horse that often has lower back pain and a poor top line. "The kidney horses often have fluid retention so they might have swollen legs for no reason or windgalls behind," he says. Mare fertility is another area in which Anthony is keen to use herbs to complement the conventional treatments. "After a thorough veterinary exam to rule out all the possible bacterial or other problems, herbs could be a good way to increase fertility in unexplained cases," he says. His own experience of using herbs for fertility has seen some dramatic results. Covering for another vet's holidays at a stud towards the end of the season, Anthony used herbs on four barren mares who all turned up in foal as a result. "These were mares with a really bad history: barren for at least two, if not three, years in every case, but without any visible reason for their infertility," he recalls. "Everything else had been tried, all the conventional medicine. There was nothing different about the treatment of those four mares except they were given herbs and yet they all scanned in foal," he says. The vet is quick to point out that there is another essential cog in his treatment of horses. "I also work closely with my assistant Claire Kearley, who is an ardent lover of horses. She has developed a phenomenal gift for feeling their pain in her body. "It's still a mystery to me but she had a kind of sixth sense and can tell me very accurately where the pain is -- whether it is in the head, hip or withers of the horse. She is so accurate that some trainers and owners request that she comes with me on visits," he says. 
