medicine
{ Mary O'Donnell 
    April 17 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/going-to-college-25990369.html }
Given the levels of competition for entry to courses in medicine and other healthcare areas, it is not surprising that students who are really keen to pursue such careers will consider travelling if they are accepted on a course. The idea of studying abroad appeals to many students, even though the reality is that it usually costs a good deal more than studying at home in Ireland. The practice of applying to British colleges is well established here but students are now considering going even further afield in Europe, particularly where programmes are taught through English. Last weekend an information session was provided in the Hungarian Embassy in Dublin for anyone interested in studying Medicine, Veterinary Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Midwifery, Physiotherapy, Psychology or Physical Education in Budapest. An umbrella body representing many of the Hungarian universities, College International Budapest, organised the event. Presentations were made by Professor Ferenc Hajós, MD, Faculty of Veterinary Science, Szent István University, Budapest, and Mr David Byrne, a first-year Irish student in the Faculty of General Medicine at Semmelweis University in Budapest. International programmes are taught through English in a number of Hungarian universities and attract students from many different countries. Obviously, given the special allocation of resources, tuition fees are charged to students attending such courses. There are at least 30 Irish students in the first year of various undergraduate programmes in Hungarian universities, which is quite a high number relative to our population - the numbers from the US come to about 90. Anyone interested in finding out more about opportunities on international programmes in Hungary should check the website 
www.studyhungary.hu. Hungary is not the only European country that affords international students the opportunity of studying medicine or dentistry through a programme taught in English. In the capital of the Czech republic, Prague's Charles University offers medical and dental degree programmes taught entirely through English. These programmes have become very popular with international students, particularly from Britain, America and Scandinavia, with a trickle of Irish students enrolling on the courses. Some of the university's medical degrees are taught in Prague while another medical degree and the dental degree are taught in one of the university's other faculties of medicine in Hradec Kralove, a town of over 100,000 inhabitants, about 90 minutes east of the capital. Another faculty is located in Pilsen. Last year Yeats College in Galway and Waterford entered into an agreement with Charles University by which the college became the official representative of Charles University in Ireland. Yeats College offers a one-year pre-medical degree programme to allow students to progress to study medicine or dentistry in Prague or Hradec Kralove. The pre-medical degree programme runs in tandem with Yeats College's existing Leaving Certificate programme. Students take core science subjects - Biology, Chemistry and Physics - to A-level standards. They are also prepared for the university's entrance exam and interview. Finally they have an orientation programme and some basic Czech language classes. Participation in the programme does not guarantee acceptance by the university. Yeats College has appointed a liaison officer in Prague to help integrate Irish students into the university. Living costs in the Czech Republic have up to now been considerably lower than those in Ireland. International students in the university have paid tuition fees of around ?8,500. All medical schools of Charles University in the Czech Republic carry equal standards in quality of teaching and recognition, regardless of their location or fees. Their medical and dental degrees are internationally accredited so graduates may work all over the world. As further evidence of opportunities for study abroad in the healthcare professions, Dutch university Saxion has sent representatives to the FAS Opportunities Fair in Croke Park, Dublin, for the past few years to inform interested candidates of the opportunities to study physiotherapy and other courses through English in the Saxion Hogeschool in Enschede, a city located in the eastern part of the Netherlands. Physiotherapy graduates of the Enschede school practise in Europe, Britain, the USA, Canada and other countries. Saxion is a public university in the Netherlands but it also offers some of its courses on international programmes taught through English, which are consequently fee-paying. The tuition fees on the physiotherapy programmes are in the region of ?5,000 annually. The programme is four years in length, with much of the third year being in a clinical placement. Small numbers of Irish students are enrolled in Saxion's physiotherapy programme. Levels of competition are high but they are not as difficult to meet as the points requirements for the four physiotherapy degree courses in colleges in the CAO. Holland is only a little over an hour from Dublin by air and English is widely understood and spoken throughout the country. For further information, log on to the college's website, 
www.saxion.nl. 
