medicine
{ Fergal Bowers 
    July 27 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/prognosis-is-gloomy-as-health-charges-climb-26242759.html }
With recent increases in healthcare services, many families have to  think twice before going to their GP, says Fergal Bowers MOST people have limited control over whether they will become ill or not. The prospects of ill health come down to the mixture of a person's genetic make-up and environmental/lifestyle factors. Likewise, people have no control over the cost of medicines or seeing a doctor and the only protection against massive expense is private health insurance. But even with private health insurance there are limits to cover and, increasingly, people have to pay an excess before they are covered. One of the big reasons for this is the shift away from inpatient treatment to outpatient care, with the latter only partially covered by private health insurance. Health is a most sensitive area. It can not be left to the vagaries of the open market to decide prices and services. However, within recent weeks the consumer has seen an increase in A&E charges, higher costs for a private bed in a public hospital, an increase in VHI charges and a reduction in the State rebate on monthly drug costs. The cost of seeing the family doctor has also increased. The government has clearly decided that the funds needed to improve the health service are to be secured through greater taxation. There was no mention of this however, during the General Election campaign. Hardest hit, are those people whose income is just above the eligibility limit for a medical card, but still very low in real terms. These families have to think twice about calling a doctor or going to casualty because of the cost. Even if a doctor makes out a prescription, the family may have difficulty paying for the medicine. It makes a mockery of the Department of Health's aims to have a fair and equitable health service. Around 1.7 million people have private health insurance in Ireland. Like the family car, health insurance is no longer a luxury but a necessity. No one wants to have to rely on the public health system, despite the fact that everyone who works funds the public hospitals through taxes. People with private health insurance also indirectly provide over {ðE}127m a year to public hospitals in revenue: through their VHI and BUPA Ireland subscriptions. But the consumer is badly served because there is very limited competition in the private health insurance market. Also, the medical organisations negotiate fee rates for consultants with the insurance companies in private, but the consumer has no say. The fee rates should be determined by an independent body in a transparent fashion. The Competition Authority is looking at the medical profession to examine whether doctors are breaching competition rules in any way in terms of price fixing. For now, if you become ill and do not have a medical card, you have to pay around {ðE}40 to see a GP and {ðE}90 or more to see a consultant. Most people regard the fees charged by GPs as too expensive, and certainly would like a better explanation about how the charges are generated. While workers try to keep their salaries rising at least in line with general inflation at 3-4 per cent, 'medical' inflation the cost of healthcare runs at around 10 per cent a year, eating into wagepackets. Public patients certainly make good use of the health system. Each year there are over 1.5m casualty admissions that's a high number for a country with a population of 3.9m people. Last year, over 25m items were prescribed for people with medical cards most of the prescriptions were for heart problems, digestive problems, the nervous system and the respiratory system. Are we a nation of pill poppers? One of the other problems faced by consumers is that the health service seems to have been designed to suit those who work in it, rather than the patients. How about having outpatient clinics at weekends or outside of normal office hours? There is also no Statutory Patient Complaints system in place although this has been promised, under the National Health Strategy. Irish hospitals treat over 500,000 inpatients and over 200,000 day patients each year and yet these people have no real voice in how the service is run. Some of the newer groups such as the Irish Patients Association and Patient Focus have input at Department of Health level and with some hospitals, but it is still early days. Getting sick in Ireland is an expensive business. Studies show that those in poorer areas get sick more often and of course this group of people usually have to wait months or years to be treated in a public hospital. Quite simply, the richer you are, the healthier you are. Money equals good health and a longer life. All of the government talk about medical care based on need rather than ability to pay means nothing in the real world. And it is going to get worse. The population is growing and ageing which means that health care costs are set to soar. People who have not yet taken out private health insurance are facing a big surprise in the future. The government plans to introduce regulations which will allow VHI, BUPA and any other health insurance firms that come into the market to charge more for people over 35 who have never had health insurance. Those even older who have never taken out insurance will face a massive 'loading'. Currently, everyone pays the same price for the same health plan, irrespective of age or health status. We may yet have a situation whereby those who drink, smoke and do not engage in healthy lifestyles will face a 'loading' too. People who are sick are always at a disadvantage in any event. They need treatment and medicines and they are not well enough to shop around. How does a member of the public compare one doctor with another or one hospital with another anyway? It's not like shopping around for a car. Also, when you are unwell all you want to do is get better and you have little energy to fight for the best care possible. The relationship between a doctor and a patient is always unequal. If you are ill, how are you to judge whether you are getting good value for money or what is the best value medicine, if a choice of medicines exist for the condition? For this reason, the Department of Health should be doing more to gather information on which hospitals are performing well, which ones are not and to ensure that healthcare is affordable. We do not have independent quality control systems which show up poorly-performing doctors and hospitals. That's why so many cases end up in the courts. The system, it would appear, is stacked against you when you are sick. It has also evolved in such a way as to protect the income of doctors through the mix of public and private medicine. All of this amounts to harsh medicine for the consumer and the prognosis remains gloomy. Fergal Bowers is editor of the health website irishhealth.com 
