medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    October 05 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/medicine-board-surprised-at-drugs-withdrawal-25891651.html }
THE decision by the makers of arthritis drug Vioxx to withdraw it from the market due to health risks has surprised medicine watchdog authorities. Representatives of various countries are in Dublin attending the annual meeting of the national centres participating in the World Health Organisation's International Drug Monitoring Programme, a body set up in the wake of the thalidomide disaster. THE decision by the makers of arthritis drug Vioxx to withdraw it from the market due to health risks has surprised medicine watchdog authorities. Representatives of various countries are in Dublin attending the annual meeting of the national centres participating in the World Health Organisation's International Drug Monitoring Programme, a body set up in the wake of the thalidomide disaster. The conference was told that Ireland's medicine watchdog is getting up to 2,000 reports each year of adverse reactions to drugs. Niamh Arthur, of the Irish Medicines Board, said the reports have increased over the years. They come from various sources such as GPs, hospital pharmacists, hospital doctors and dentists. Commenting on the most recent controversy over the arthritis drug Vioxx, Dr Joan Gilvarry, director of human medicines at the IMB, said authorities had known for some years about the reported higher risk of cardiovascular disease associated with the drug, which was withdrawn by its makers Merck Sharp and Dohme last week. However, she said watchdog agencies were surprised by the voluntary pulling of the drug from the market as it could still be used for short-term pain relief. When the drugs firm was ordered to test Vioxx, it emerged there was a higher risk of cardiovascular disease, including stroke, after using it for 18 months. Under new legislation, all EU drug trials must be entered into a database and results must be revealed. 
