medicine
{  
    June 25 2010 10:54 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/localnotes/challenges-posed-by-not-being-designated-as-a-cancer-centre-27572125.html }
The major challenge to Sligo General Hospital is to successfully navigate the obstacles created by not being a cancer centre, as recommended by the National Cancer Control Programme. But although this will have implications for categories of patients that will come to the hospital, it may also create difficulties around recruitment and retention of staff due to perceptions engendered by not being a designated cancer centre. However, sources within the hospital have told The Sligo Champion that the hospital still sees itself as having a major input into cancer treatment, including medical oncology, haematology, palliative care, colorectal cancer surgery, skin cancer treatment, diagnostic pathways for prostrate and lung cancer along with interventional radiology. Indeed, the hospital, according to its "vision", see itself as a regional hospital (Band 1) with linkages to tertiary care centres in Galway and Dublin, and delivering a full range of acute services to its core catchment population and regional services to a wider geographical area. The hospital's core services include medicine, surgery, trauma, ICU, paediatrics, maternity, and emergency medicine supported by laboratory, radiology and a full range of back up services. The above core services also provide many regional interventions to a wider catchment population. Sligo General Hospital is of the opinion that issues created by not being a designated cancer centre may be addressed by: (1) Management of the remaining cancer entities in SGH must be delivered in the context of a network between SGH and a relevant cancer centre. This network would need to be supported by linked personnel appointments, multidisciplinary meetings (MDMs) and linked audit processes between the centres. The staff at SGH feels that the initial work-up of many common cancers can be performed effectively on its campus as part of a network with relevant cancer centre. (2) It is apparent that the designated cancer centres have difficulty in coping with the workload created by being regional cancer centres, coupled with their increasing emergency/trauma load and elective work. Much elective work is currently being performed in private hospitals under the auspices of the NPTF. This elective work should be channelled to the Regional Hospitals to enable them to continue to have a critical mass and attract trainees and consultants. SGH would be keen to expand the number of elective patients it currently treats. (3) Training being shared between the cancer centre and SGH playing to the strengths of both. These workflows could in theory be organised and overseen by Regional Clinical Directors in conjunction with Regional Managers, relevant hospital managers and the NPTF. The HSE would have a significant role in boosting the status of the non-designated cancer centres/hospitals to enable them to adopt this role. In addition, Sligo General Hospital sees its Emergency Department continuing to provide emergency services to its core catchment area and would envisage expansion of its effective catchment area as a result of reconfiguration of emergency services elsewhere. The siting of a Coastguard helicopter in Strandhill is likely to result in additional trauma patients being brought to SGH. Currently the Emergency Department has three consultants in emergency medicine (one of whom has dual accreditation in paediatric emergency medicine) and treats over 30,000 patients per annum. The anticipated reconfiguration of SGH's emergency department would allow more effective patient streaming and the development of a Clinical Decision Unit (CDU) which would allow the safe discharge of a cohort of patients currently admitted. With the further development of Consultant in emergency medicine staffing, an opportunity exists for greater collaboration working in the provision of the hospital's acute assessment unit service. The hospital points out that it is fundamental for a comprehensive emergency department service that emergency medicine is supported by efficient delivery of the full range of clinical and support services. This capability would require existing trauma, ICU, obstetric, neonatal and pathology laboratory services (particularly Blood Transfusion) to be retained. 
