medicine
{  
    July 26 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/inhumane-treatment-of-asseel-must-stop-now-38335786.html }
Lying in his green and blue bed in New Ross, Asseel Osman emits a low, keening cry, like a baby: vulnerable, in need of being lifted up and held. In 2016 the five-year-old Co Wexford boy was the first person in the country for whom cannabis oil was imported, illegally, to help with the spasms and pain he was enduring.  His father, Mahad, was the courier. But supplies are running low and he is not getting the dosage he needs as his parents, Mahad and Zara, can't afford to keep pay the thousands of euros the oil costs, which means Asseel is in pain. Next month Mahad - who cannot work as he spends over 50 hours a week caring for his son - will travel once again to Germany to buy two tiny vials of the oil for €2,000 in Germany as without it his son's epilepsy and cerebral palsy takes over Asseel, making him scream out in agony. In 2017 Health Minister Simon Harris granted a licence for medicinal cannabis for Cork girl Ava Twomey who suffers from a severe form of epilepsy after her mother Vera campaigned at the Dáil for assistance.  Since that time some 15 other Irish children have been granted the licence. For Asseel and his parents Mahad and Zara no assistance has been forthcoming. Asseel's consultant needs to approve him for a ministerial licence and only than can the family be assisted in paying for the medicine Asseel so desperately needs. Holding up the vial, Mahad says: 'In five weeks time this will be empty and I'll have to travel to Germany again. It costs €2,600 between accommodation in the cheapest hostel, flights and getting the cannabis oil and that's the cheapest oil available in Europe that works for Asseel.' Mahad says he cannot understand why Asseel, who is 100 per cent disabled, has been denied a licence, when other children with less severe conditions have been granted one. 'My son is fully disabled. He is bag fed. He can't say "I have pain". He can't swallow; couldn't even swallow the cannabis oil we got for him in Barcelona. He vomited it up as it wasn't the same (quality) as we get in Germany. We are his carers and any money we have is put aside for his medicine.' Asseel's spine is contorted  as he is in a constant state of spasm, which gets progressively worse when he isn't receiving enough canna bis oil. Mahad said every medical professional, from Asseel's occupational therapist to his physiotherapist, along with Jack & Jill workers and GPs in Ireland and Germany agree that Asseel needs and should be granted a licence to receive cannabis oil. Despite being promised the licence would be forthcoming last year, Mahad is facing into an autumn and winter of surviving with barely enough money to feed his wife and two children. The house at Irishtown House looks out of place, almost derelict, from the outside. Standing in between houses with flowers and play equipment in their front gardens, Mahad and Zara's house has nothing to indicate occupancy within.  Inside the living room has been turned into a hospital room, a few child's toys the only indication of a house where children play. In the past two months Asseel's brother Naif has moved back in, having been cared for by relatives for around 18 months as it was too difficult for him to be around his big brother when he was in pain without cannabis oil. Tests comparing Asseel's brain function on cannabis oil compared to when he was off the drug were carried out on Asseel but did not meet the standards of proof required for the licence to be granted for the consultant. 'Seven people better than Asseel got it (the cannabis oil). Some of them can sit up, stand, drink, eat. Without the oil he bites himself and his mouth is all blood. I am running a risk importing the oil illegally. If they stop me - with the condition my son has - I'll go to the papers. We were the first family to bring cannabis oil into the country.' He said Asseel's medicine cost €450 per week at one point. 'In 2016 he used cannabis oil for the first time. They stopped it and tried medicine which didn't work. In May 2018 we were told he'd get a licence but I was told privately that there was a concern that everyone would want it. The medicine was making him crazy. His brother Naif is back now because his older brother is so much better.' Rubbing Asseel's thigh to comfort him, Mahad appealed to the Government and the HSE to help his son. He said he feels like a prisoner in his home. 'I don't go out. I have no money for even the basics. When you are a father; when you are a man and you see your wife and she would like to buy something for the house and you can do nothing.  'We want to make the house better but we can't. I am very angry. We get social welfare but we don't use it like other people do. We have no money for our garden, for play equipment. We would like so many things. All our money goes towards Asseel's medicine.' As Asseel starts to cry again, Mahad shares a laugh with him and a hug. Naif, looks down, before flashing a bright 100 watt smile at his father. 'He's back with us two months so we are happier but I am very angry (with the HSE).' He suddenly goes sullen, saying: 'Every house has a door and you don't know what's going on inside the door. I would like Simon Harris and Paul Kehoe to come visit us here even for three minutes. People working for the ambulance, social workers; they have all said Asseel needs medicine. All the doctors in Our Lady's Hospital and Temple Street know Asseel's name and they all say he has a bad, difficult condition. Why can't the government look after him?  'Sixteen people have a licence; how they got it no one knows. Now that I see the situation I won't give up. I'll go to Germany. The doctors there ask why the government don't give Asseel a licence. They say he needs the cannabis solution to relax his brain. I don't want to have to leave my family and go away to Germany to stay in the cheapest hostel and wait a day for the prescription to be filled. Nobody refunds me from the HSE.' Meanwhile no indication has been given to Mahad that the pilot Medical Cannabis Access Programme announced by the government in June will benefit Asseel. A Facebook page called 'Hope For Asseel', 'You can't have healthcare without THC' set up by People Before Profit's Sue Breen has attracted some attention, but without money the Osman family will continue to struggle on indefinitely. Susan said: 'It's so hard to understand exactly what's going on. There is so little for disabled kids in this country. There is just no light at the end of the tunnel for Asseel. He went to hospitals but it came to a point where there was nothing they could do due to the severity of his brain damage.' She said Asseel has used a synthetic form of cannabis oil having had to travel to Germany with his family in 2016 because he couldn't access the medicine here. Upon returning to a Dublin hospital the drug was confiscated and Asseel's condition deteriorated rapidly. Susan said it is clear to everyone who knows Asseel and his parents that his quality of life is immensely better while on cannabis oil. 'With a lot of the people who have been granted the licence, they are dealing with just one thing. Asseel is dealing with brain damage and other issues. There is a fear about prescribing something that they don't have expertise in but at the same time the child is bed bound and the whole family has no quality of life. The entire care team has written letters outlining how much the oil is benefiting him. At what point do you say I am going to put my head above the parapet and help the family. Here you have a boy who is suffering horribly. There comes a point when you have to say "we have to do this".' Susan said Asseel is running out of his medicine, adding that the last time he ran out he fell terribly sick. 'If anyone spent time with Asseel they would be in doubt about what is necessary.' She said some consultants have concerns about THC cannabis oil, but the alternative is putting Asseel on 12 different medicines. 'It's a real double bind that he is in. We are hoping he will be granted the licence because what he's been getting is a synthetic drug. It's an incredibly stressful situation for Mahad and Zara. It should be such a happy time as the family are all together but they are just weighed down with the stress and with the financial burden. It's totally inhumane. I know everyone wants to cover their own backs but at some point you have to listen to the people who are caring for him. Even though it's expensive, the drugs he was on before cost more. Either way his care and medicine would cost the state a very large amount and the fact that they are caring for him at home. It beggars belief!  'They are happy enough to see him use this medicine and go to the hospital and be assessed. The family are living on nothing and it suddenly becomes a problem when it comes to helping them access it.' People Before Profit TD Gino Kenny said nothing can be done until a consultant approves Asseel for a licence. He said with the softening of laws pertaining to cannabis oil use there is a good chance the licence will be approved.  'I have tried everything in my power to highlight this issue. The new laws do give doctors more wiggle room. I can understand his parents' frustration. I completely do. The door is open so hopefully they will be able to get the licence.' New Ross Standard 
