medicine
{ Rebecca Smith 
    January 12 2011 09:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/strong-painkillers-increase-risk-of-heart-or-stroke-death-research-26613304.html }
Painkillers commonly used to treat arthritis, post-surgery pain and frozen shoulder, can increase the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke by fourfold, a study has found. Scientists have undertaken one of the most comprehensive studies on the cardiovascular effects of powerful painkillers and have concluded there is little evidence they are safe for the heart. They stressed that while the overall numbers of people suffering heart attacks or strokes while on the drugs is small, there are important risks associated with taking them. The drugs include ibuprofen which is available over the counter, without prescription and the authors have questioned if this should be allowed to continue. The drugs, called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) and a subgroup of newer ones called COX-2 inhibitors, are known to affect the heart and one of them, Vioxx, was removed from sale in 2004 because of the increased risk of heart attacks. Since then doctors have questioned the safety of the whole class of similar drugs. The analysis, conducted by a team at Bern University, evaluated 31 studies involving over 116,000 patients who took the painkillers regularly, mostly for arthritis pain. The drugs were naproxen, ibuprofen, diclofenac, celecoxib, etoricoxib, rofecoxib or Vioxx and lumiracoxib. It was found that compared with placebo, rofecoxib and lumiracoxib were associated with twice the risk of heart attack, while ibuprofen was associated with more than three times the risk of stroke. Etoricoxib and diclofenac were associated a fourfold risk of death from a heart attack or stroke. Naproxen appeared least harmful in terms of cardiovascular safety of the seven, the researchers said. The study only looked at people taking the drugs continuously and not those taking the odd painkiller for a headache or other minor ailment. The findings were published online by the British Medical Journal. Co-author Professor Peter Jüni, of the Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine at the University of Bern in Switzerland, said: "The use of other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs not covered by our analysis should be reconsidered, as well as the over the counter availability of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as diclofenac or ibuprofen. "In conclusion, the options for the treatment of chronic musculoskeletal pain are limited and patients and clinicians need to be aware that cardiovascular risk needs to be taken into account when prescribing." An accompanying editorial by Prof Wayne Ray, of the Department of Preventive Medicine at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, America, said: "What does this all mean when prescribing NSAIDs for patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease? Current data suggest that selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors, particularly in higher doses, should be avoided. "The controversy and confusion about the cardiovascular safety of drugs to relieve chronic musculoskeletal symptoms provides an important lesson. "Drugs for symptomatic relief must be evaluated with regard to the target symptoms as well as less frequent yet serious adverse effects. NSAIDs are not an ideal treatment with respect to efficacy or safety. Perhaps it is time for a larger more systematic evaluation of a broader range of alternatives." Professor Peter Weissberg, Medical Director at the British Heart Foundation, said: “This confirms what has been known for some years now – taking non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs on a regular basis increases heart attack or stroke risk. “However, some patients with debilitating joint pains may consider the small increased risk worthwhile when set against the improvement in their quality of life that these drugs bring. “Anyone who needs regular painkillers should talk to their doctor about which drug is the most appropriate for them. There is lots than can be done to mitigate any potential risks.” Medical director of Arthritis Research UK Professor Alan Silman, said: "Far fewer GPs are now prescribing NSAIDs and Cox-2 to their arthritis patients, particularly those with cardio-vascular problems, because of the potential risks, yet for many people who are not at high risk of heart attacks and strokes they remain a highly effective means of combating pain. "Naproxen, in particular, is probably very safe. We concur with medical advice that people should take the smallest dose for the shortest length of time possible, although this isn’t very practical if you have a long-term condition such as arthritis. “We would advise people with arthritis to seek an annual review of their painkillers with the GP so their risk of cardio-vascular risk can be regularly checked, and so that they can seek advice about alternatives to NSAIDs.” The Proprietary Association of Great Britain (PAGB) is the UK trade association representing manufacturers of over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. Its chief executive, Sheila Kelly, said: "The studies that the researchers looked at involved people taking high doses of NSAIDs on a long-term basis, for chronic conditions such as osteoarthritis. "Patients with such conditions will have their medicines prescribed by the doctor who will decide on the most appropriate treatment for them, taking into account any other risk factors. "People who buy over-the-counter medicines containing ibuprofen, naproxen or diclofenac to treat the occasional headache, sprain or period pain should not be alarmed at these findings. "At the dosage levels available over-the-counter, for short-term use and used according to the instructions on pack, these medicines are extremely safe." Telegraph.co.uk 
