medicine
{  
    October 14 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/free-service-to-dispose-of-unwanted-medicines-now-rolled-out-in-cork-35125823.html }
A free service encouraging people to dispose of unused or out-of-date medicines is available in Cork from now until November 20 as part of a new initiative aimed at curbing the nuisance of unwanted medicines. Unwanted medicines are said to be responsible for up to 93 per cent of poisoning cases that occur in the home or domestic setting. The 'Dispose of Unused Medicines Properly' (DUMP) campaign is organised by the HSE with the backing of pharmacists in Cork and Kerry and the new measures are being supported by Cork City Council, Cork County Council, Kerry County Council and the Southern Regional Waste Management Office. More than 250 pharmacies in Cork and Kerry are participating in the campaign for 2016 where the HSE and participating pharmacists will actively encourage people to return unwanted medicines so they can be disposed of safely. Medicines build-up over time due to unfinished courses of antibiotics or a condition/illness that is no longer a problem where the remainder of the medication is not used.  Also, older people or someone with an ongoing illness can often have large amounts of medicine at home and people should avail of what is a great opportunity to rid the home of unwanted medicines.   "We would strongly urge people to take this opportunity to get rid of out-of-date or unused medicines.  Medication can pose a real hazard in the home, particularly to children or other vulnerable people," said HSE pharmacist, Louise Creed. "Clearing out your medicine cabinet is something that should be done on a regular basis.  Check all the dates and remove anything that is out of date or no longer required.  As well as the hazards posed by overdose, accidental poisoning and damage to the environment, medicines can change when out of date and may end up being harmful," she added. The National Suicide Research Foundation also report that approximately 50 cases of suicide each year involve drug overdose and that about 8,000 people attending Emergency Departments each year is due to deliberate drug overdose. Unwanted medicines also cause environmental damage when disposed of along with household waste, flushing down toilets or poured down sinks. Corkman 
