medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent 
    May 13 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/ae-doctors-to-reject-240000-contract-in-overcrowding-protest-26445531.html }
THE country's senior A&amp;E doctors are set to reject the new consultants' €240,000 work contract -- dealing a major blow to hopes to reform hospital emergency services. In a strongly-worded letter to their union, the consultants accused their employers in the Health Services Executive of using them as "window dressing" without tackling the underlying problems of overcrowding, the Irish Independent has learned. Balloting is under way this week on the new contract, which would see the country's 1,300 specialists paid up to €240,000 to work a longer working week, including evening and weekend shifts. However, the Association of Emergency Medicine has recommended its 48 A&E specialists reject the contract following a weekend meeting. The consultants, who currently earn approximately €190,000 are angry at the continuing A&E overcrowding. They are also frustrated at working in "unfit" units where they are forced to treat patients on trolleys and chairs because of the lack of beds. The consultants want health and safety concerns about unsuitable A&E departments addressed as part of the contract negotiations, and a clearer policy from the HSE on whether it wants a 24-hour or 12-hour consultant-led emergency service. Either policy would require an overhaul of emergency departments and a significant increase in consultant numbers. Discrimination Consultants believe they are being discriminated against because they are barred from private practise, although many of the patients they treat in A&E have health insurance. Health Minister Mary Harney said she wants as many existing consultants as possible to sign the new contract so that there will be more senior specialists in hospitals and less reliance on junior doctors. No existing consultant can be forced to sign the contract and a significant number will continue working under their current terms and conditions. In a letter -- seen by the Irish Independent -- to the Irish Hospital Consultants Association (IHCA), the A&E doctors said: "The feeling of the group was that the employer has no intention of developing the emergency medicine service to acceptable international standards. "They merely wish to have a consultant in the department for 'window dressing'." Dr Eamon Brazil of the Mater Hospital said proposals which were supposed to form the basis for negotiating a meaningful contract "which would benefit our patients, the emergency service and the acute hospital sector" had been thrown out by employers. He added: "You are aware that all of these proposals were rejected by the employer most recently after representation to the highest level of the HSE and Department of Health." The letter to IHCA secretary general Finbarr Fitzpatrick, added: "The consultant group was astounded that the employer would not commit to these proposals given that they would form an essential framework to bring meaningful reform to emergency medicine." Contempt "The most recent suggestion by Mr Gerry Barry (of the HSE Employers Agency) that consultants in Emergency Medicine sign the contract and then start discussions was correctly treated with contempt." He said that, at the weekend meeting of A&E consultants, disappointment was expressed as to how the IHCA recommended acceptance of "an inequitable contract". "The consultant group voted unanimously that all consultants in emergency medicine who are IHCA members should reject the contract in the ballot as the contract takes no account of any of the patient care and staff welfare issues," he added. "Existing consultants in emergency medicine will remain on the existing Buckley contract. The opportunity to bring meaningful reform has been lost." 
