medicine
{ DANIEL MCCONNELL  EXCLUSIVE 
    May 11 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/court-to-hear-medicine-course-discrimination-case-26445104.html }
A landmark case of an Irish teenager who was denied a place in medicine while poorer performing foreign national classmates got places ahead of him is set to begin in the High Court next month, the Sunday Independent has learned. In a David versus Goliath type battle, lawyers for Frank Prendergast Jnr, of Blackrock, Co Dublin, have served papers on the Higher Education Authority, the education minister and the attorney general. The case has now been listed for Monday, June 30, in the High Court sitting in Limerick. This means that new Education Minister Batt O'Keeffe will not enjoy any honeymoon period as if the historic judicial review challenge is successful, it could not only have an impact on entry to medicine courses but could have a fundamental impact on the entire CAO application system. The Sunday Independent understands that final pre-court documents have been passed between lawyers for both sides within the past few days, and the case is expected to last at least two days. Interestingly, former Tanaiste and Justice Minister Michael McDowell SC is one of the lawyers acting for Mr Prendergast. He is also represented by Gerard Hogan SC, who is one of the country's leading constitutional lawyers. The papers, seen by the Sunday Independent, are claiming that by giving preference to overseas students, the department and the Higher Education Authority are acting unconstitutionally. Mr Prendergast had applied to do medicine at every college in Ireland at which it is offered. Not getting enough points for entry after sitting his Leaving Cert at a Dublin school, it is believed that the student then offered to pay the same non-EU fees of €25,000-€42,000 to the colleges, but was turned down. Essentially, he is arguing that as an Irish citizen the Government has a duty to provide for his education first, ahead of any foreign national. It is believed that his legal team is to argue that allowing foreign students an easier path to the course simply by paying money is prejudicial and contrary to the Constitution and the 1971 Higher Education Act. By offering to match the fees of those paid by the overseas pupils, Mr Prendergast was trying to force the college's hand to admit him. There are different categories of students eligible to study in Ireland. Non-EU students who sit the Leaving Cert who have the monetary means can apply outside the CAO system at lower points requirements than those imposed on Irish students. Last year, students from outside the EU from the Middle East, the US and Canada, were able to get into medicine with 420 points. 
