medicine
{  
    September 02 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/doctor-who-flew-the-flag-for-women-in-medicine-35004534.html }
The daughter of a Sligo bank manager who rose to the highest post in British Medicine has just published her memoirs.  87-year-old Dame Beulah Bewley (nee Knox) wanted to be a doctor from the age of five. She lived in the Ulster Bank building on Stephen Street when her father, John 'Jack' Knox, worked there as bank manager in the 1940s. Her memoir 'Beulah Bewley - My Life as a Woman and Doctor' reveals how she played tennis for Sligo and has happy memories of 'courting' her first boyfriend, solicitor Mervyn Winslow, along by Riverside. She describes the day WB Yeats was buried in 1948: "It was a big day for Sligo. The whole town was shut up and everybody was on the streets. The church was packed," she writes. Beulah's followed a family tradition and studied medicine at Trinity College Dublin, married psychiatrist Thomas Bewley (of the Dublin Coffee Houses fame) and emigrated to England like many of their generation. Her daughter Susan Bewley, a 4th generation doctor and Professor of Obstetrics at Kings College London, taped Beulah's memories for the book. "When we were small my parents would often bring us back to Ireland - I was born in Dublin. We would take tours to Sligo to visit a cousin of my mother's who ran a shop selling guns and fishing bait," she told this newspaper. "Mum was always incredibly hard-working. She was very concerned about women's education. When she had five children she was a hospital paediatrician and did some ground-breaking work in children's medicine," she said. When she was 40 Beulah went back to retrain as an academic. "She found through her research in the 1970s that by smoking one cigarette a week 11 year olds starting showing cough symptoms - that was when nobody thought smoking was dangerous. She really did fly the flag for women and careers. She was 'leaning in' long before Sheryl Sandberg. She wouldn't let things get in her way. She says 'intelligent men never put me down' and always treated people as if they wouldn't put her down," she said. "She was always pushing women forward," added Susan. Beulah became Honorary Treasurer of the General Medical Council, the highest rank any woman has ever achieved there, and was made a Dame of the British Empire for her work for women in medicine in 2000. Beulah still lives in London with her husband Thomas. Sligo Champion 
