medicine
{ Fiona Magennis 
    July 03 2013 03:28 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/lourdes-consultants-appointed-as-professors-29373486.html }
TWO Consultants in Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital have been appointed as Professors by the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. Dr Doiminic O'Brannagain, Consultant in Palliative Medicine and Dr Conor Egleston, Consultant in Emergency Medicine were both officially announced as Professors at the start of June. Professor O'Brannagain was appointed as a Consultant Physician in Palliative Medicine in 2001 after completing his special training in palliative medicine. He was appointed as Senior Lecturer in Medicine in 2008 and as Clinical Director for the Louth/Meath Hospital Group in October 2009. Professor Conor Egleston joined Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital in 2000, having previously spent three years as a Consultant in Emergency Medicine in Southampton. Originally from Dublin, Professor Egleston qualified in 1987 before emigrating to England with wife Elaine in 1992 where the couple spent eight years in various hospitals around the country before returning to Ireland in 2000. Both men said they were thrilled with their appointments and said the announcement was a fantastic accolade for the hospital as a whole and the work done by all those involved in teaching within Our Lady of Lourdes. 'I'm absolutely delighted of course, and it is nice to be acknowledged, but you know there are a lot of people who have done a huge amount of work before this to make this happen. 'There is a culture of teaching within this hospital across a broad range of areas,' said Professor Egleston. Irene O'Hanlon, Louth/Meath Hospital Group Risk Advisor, said: 'Everyone in the hospital is thrilled wtih this news, these two individuals have excelled over the years in the hospital in relation to clinical practice.' There was further good news for the hospital as Dr Siobhan Gormley, Consultant in Paediatrics in Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital, has been given the RCSI Dean's Award for medical education. Drogheda Independent 
