medicine
{ John Walshe 
    August 21 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/points-for-top-college-courses-to-be-slashed-26370924.html }
STUDENTS hoping to enrol on elite college courses will no longer have to score near-maximum marks in their Leaving Certificate exams. Instead, they will be able to study courses such as medicine, pharmacy and dentistry by achieving a basic 450 points and then sitting a new "suitability test". STUDENTS hoping to enrol on elite college courses will no longer have to score near-maximum marks in their Leaving Certificate exams. Instead, they will be able to study courses such as medicine, pharmacy and dentistry by achieving a basic 450 points and then sitting a new "suitability test". Education Minister Mary Hanafin last night confirmed the moves to slash entry points required for a range of high-entry courses. The new system will kick in for students who return to school next month to sit the Leaving Cert in 2008. Students currently have to get anything up to 590 points to study medicine in university. Dentistry in Trinity College Dublin stands at 565, while pharmacy courses range from 545 to 555. Students hoping to study veterinary medicine also needed to attain at least 555 points in their final exams. Under the new system, they will only need to achieve a basic 450 points and then put in a good performance in the suitability test. The department says it is not intended to extend the new system beyond health care courses. But there are already alternative entry routes into other sought-after courses such as law and engineering. An interim report on how the system will work for entry into medicine has just been presented to the minister. The exact weighting which will be given to the suitability test has yet to be finalised. But it is envisaged no extra study will be required to pass it. The model mentioned in the report is one already in use to help select candidates for medical schools in Australia. Once the new system is bedded down for medicine it will then be extended to the other health care courses in an effort to ease the points pressure. Academics familiar with the test system used in Australia say the method of combining exam results with interviews has been extremely successful in selecting the best applicants. Interviews are currently off the agenda as far as entry to Irish medical schools is concerned. But from two years time they will all use the aptitude/suitability tests combined with exam results for both undergraduate and graduate entry. The tests will be marked independently. However, sources expect that an 'industry' will quickly develop here - as it has done in other countries - offering sample questions and answers, grinds and coaching on how to do well in the tests. Meanwhile, there has been a broadly positive response to the first round of CAO points released yesterday. The points required for 290 courses dropped this year, but they rose for 161 honours degree (level 8) courses. However, college sources last night said it was premature to predict the demise of the points race for Leaving Cert students. University of Limerick Vice President Professor Don Barry said more than 50pc of its existing programmes had increased or maintained their entry standards. Engineers Ireland said interest in engineering and technology remained robust. Dundalk Institute of Technology said it expected to at least hold its first year numbers for this year, if not increase them. College registrar Stephen McManus said there had been a high demand on places in Early Childhood Studies, Social Care and Film and Video Production. 
