medicine
{ Louise McBride 
    August 04 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/troika-prescribes-more-price-transparency-in-chemists-29470758.html }
Cutbacks and tax hikes aren't the only things on the Troika's agenda – so too are the prices of prescriptions and drugs in our local pharmacy. Last month, the Troika met with the consumer watchdog, the National Consumer Agency (NCA), and the Competition Authority to discuss how competition in the pharmacy sector could be improved – so the prices paid for prescriptions and drugs could be reduced. Last March, the NCA urged people to ensure they were not being ripped off by pharmacists after a survey revealed huge variations in medicine prices. NCA boss, Karen O'Leary, told the Sunday Independent last week that she was still concerned about the lack of transparency in the pharmacy sector. "There's zero transparency with prices in the pharmacy sector," said Ms O'Leary. "When you go into a pharmacy and ask for a prescription, you've no idea how much you'll be charged – until you get the prescription. You've no way of knowing if the price you're charged for a prescription is correct as there's no reference – and no shelf price." A spokeswoman for the Irish Pharmacy Union, which represents community pharmacists, said: "It would be impractical to display the price of over 7,000 prescription medicines in a pharmacy. Patients can ask for the price of medicines before the items are dispensed. "The base price of medicines in Ireland is set by agreement between the Health Service Executive and the major pharmaceutical manufacturers. Pharmacists have no role in this." Prescription prices are usually made up of a number of costs, including the cost price of the medicine, a percentage mark-up and a dispensing fee. A spokesman for the pharmacy regulator, the Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland, said it "supports transparency relating to patients using their medications and encourages patients to ask their pharmacist about the nature of their medicines, including pricing, if unclear". Although Ryanair boss, Michael O'Leary, warned last week that he planned to further increase baggage charges and that charges for carry-on luggage were inevitable, Ms O'Leary said she was more concerned about pharmacy than baggage charges. "Ultimately baggage charges make flying more expensive and they may be killing the golden goose of cheap flights a bit," said Ms O'Leary. "The issue for us is do consumers have enough information to choose between products. So we're more concerned about sectors where there's little choice and low transparency, such as pharmacies, doctors and solicitors." Sunday Independent 
