medicine
{  
    May 05 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/eu-needs-a-cure-on-medicine-definition-25945875.html }
Europe is confused about what constitutes a veterinary medicine - and the result could be chaos for our farmers, warns Avril Doyle MEP. MISUNDERSTANDINGS in Europe about what is a veterinary medicine and what is a prescription are set to cause chaos in Ireland and Britain, threaten animal welfare and impose yet another cost on beleaguered livestock farmers. It stems from the European Commission proposal in the Veterinary Review 2001 that all medicines for food-producing animals should be classified as prescription-only (POM). In mainland Europe, there are many farm medicines on sale which in Ireland are classified as veterinary medicines; and there is also a different culture when it comes to prescribing. Under Irish regulations, POMs may be prescribed only when a vet has examined the animal(s) on a case-by-case basis. In France, vets can issue a single "script" for a full year for routine husbandry. If we are to maintain the status quo in Ireland, we must win formal definitions both for what constitutes a veterinary medicine and for a prescription. If we can't resolve it, there will be inevitable animal welfare consequences. If the Commission's proposals win the day, who will worm or vaccinate livestock? Who will carry out the routine animal husbandry activities? And who is going to pay? So the battle is on. We cannot agree on a directive without clear definition and without tightening up this particular area - and whichever way it goes will benefit neither the animals nor the food chain. We are told that the debate is being driven by the needs of the food chain and consumer demand. Whether a medicine is given under prescription or sold over the counter doesn't make any difference to the food chain - it is the withdrawal period compliance which is crucial. The vets and Commission officials drawing up these proposals come from a culture which doesn't understand how we do things in Ireland - and they also seem to be remarkably reluctant to try. In Ireland we have clarity between POM and other animal medicines; and how a prescription should be issued and used. Farmers should be aware that these discussions are part of a wider debate about the whole package of human and animal medicines and the review of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency. This means that the next stage in its progress may be review by Europe's health ministers. And I am afraid the veterinary medicines are the Cinderella of the pharmaceutical industry. It will be up to the Irish ministers to make it very clear what are our concerns and not to sign us up for something that will not work for either the animal or the farmer. If farmers want to retain the right to manage their animals as they do at present, they must act now to make their public representatives aware of their concerns. The Commission's resistance is bizarre. Europe must either exempt certain treatments from the regulations or define a prescription and a veterinary medicine - and interpretation must be consistent across the borders. European regulations are intended to benefit trade and free the market: this can be achieved only by consistency of definition. If there's logic in a regulation, we will accept it, but the playing field must be level and fair competition for all. Avril Doyle, Fine Gael MEP for Leinster, is Head of the Irish Delegation in the EPP political group in Europe and is a Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease. She is leading the fight for farmers to retain the right to buy and administer routine non-prescription animal medicines. 
