medicine
{  
    November 29 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/health-wellbeing/are-alternative-remedies-safe-35244934.html }
Recent headlines around so-called 'natural products' have sent shivers down the spines of parents all over the country, after it emerged that the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was investigating 10 infant deaths that it said may be related to the use of homeopathic teething gels and tablets. The Health Products Regulatory Authority (HPRA) here moved swiftly to advise parents that unlicensed homeopathic teething tablets or gels should not be used as they could pose safety risks for young infants and babies. In a statement, the HPRA said the products in question were made and supplied by manufacturers in the US and were not licensed for use or retail sale in Ireland.  However, it said the unlicensed products may be advertised and available to buy online. The controversy arose last month after the FDA issued a warning about the tablets, saying it was investigating 400 cases of seizures and other reactions in children. It warned this could include difficulty in breathing, lethargy, excessive sleepiness, skin flushing, constipation and difficulty urinating. The HPRA issued its statement in the wake of the warning, saying that if parents here had sourced these products, then they should stop using them immediately and dispose of them safely. The authority said the announcement did not apply to the two homeopathic teething products that are permitted by the HPRA to be available on the Irish market.  These products are Nelsons Teetha Teething Granules and the brand's Teetha Teething Gel, which have been sought out by parents looking to soothe their teething children for many years. It's not the first time 'natural' teething products have been in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons. Amber necklaces, which have become popular as an alternative to ease teething pain in infants and toddlers across Europe, Australia and the US, have been the subject of health warnings in many jurisdictions, including this one. Retailers claim that when warmed by the body's temperature, the amber releases a pain-relieving substance, which is then absorbed through the skin into the bloodstream.  However, there is no evidence to back up these claims and concerns around the suffocation hazard posed by the teething necklaces have been raised, particularly if children are left unattended. In 2010, Health Canada, the country's federal department of public health, determined that the necklaces were enough of an issue to warrant a consumer product safety warning that highlighted the strangulation risk.  France and Switzerland have banned the sale of the necklaces in pharmacies. In response to queries from the Irish Independent, the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (CCPC) said that it considered amber teething products to be inherently unsafe and strongly advised parents and caregivers never to use amber teething jewellery such as necklaces, bracelets and anklets as a teething relief for babies and small children. "Amber teething necklaces, bracelets and anklets pose a potential choking/inhalation hazard to any child under three years of age," a statement from the CCPC said.  "The jewellery normally contains many small amber beads, which can come loose from the string and be swallowed or inhaled.  "Even if the parts do not break off, amber necklaces, bracelets, and anklets are small enough to be swallowed whole by a small child or baby, which can lead to choking.  "In addition, the amber beads used in this type of jewellery can very easily shatter into smaller parts and this can lead to choking.  "Tragically, in other countries there have been a number of serious incidents from the use of amber teething jewellery, including in October 2016 when the death of a small child in America was reported."  The CCPC also said that traders were legally obligated to ensure that the products they place on the market were safe and warned that the commission would investigate and take appropriate action against any trader placing unsafe products on the market.  "If a consumer becomes aware of an Irish retailer selling amber jewellery as a teething aid, they should contact the CCPC's Product Safety Unit at  01-4025550, or email productsafety@ccpc.ie," the statement said. In August, doctors writing in the journal 'BMJ' warned of the dangers associated with complementary therapies after a four-year-old boy with autism was admitted to accident and emergency following advice to take holistic supplements.  Upon admission to hospital, the boy had a range of symptoms including vomiting, constipation, weight loss and loss of appetite. Tests revealed the child had a high level of calcium in the blood as well as a high level of Vitamin D. His mother later revealed to doctors that she had consulted a naturopath for her son who had recommended for the boy to take 12 holistic supplements including calcium, Vitamin D, cod liver oil, camel milk, silver, zinc and Epsom bath salts.  Doctors concluded that the supplements he was taking were the most likely explanation for his symptoms.  The child made a full recovery two weeks later, but according to the 'BMJ', his parents were devastated that something they had given to their son with good intent had made him so ill. Doctors reported that the case demonstrated that there can be significant adverse effects which may go unrecognised due to lack of monitoring, recognition and experience with these therapies. While recent controversies may focus attention on specific items or products, many people claim to benefit from treatments like homeopathy, now definitively debunked, which was created in 1976 on the theory that "like cures like".  Treatments typically involve using homeopathic preparations - extreme dilutions of substances in water or alcohol until there is almost no trace of the original substance left. Another form of alternative medicine that is on the increase here is naturopathy.  It claims to work by employing a wide array of natural 'modalities', including homeopathy, herbalism and acupuncture as well as lifestyle and diet counselling. But while the alternative medicine industry is experiencing a boom, doctors are not so keen. Dublin-based GP Dr Mark Murphy says what differentiates western medicine from all forms of complementary medicine is evidence.  "If there is evidence that something works, it's no longer complementary.  "No GP can recommend alternative medicine because there is no evidence. All therapies endorsed by a GP have an evidence base," he says. And Dr Murphy, who is chair of communications with the Irish College of GPs, says he would urge caution against patients using alternative therapies, particularly if they are taking regular medication. According to the Department of Health, there is at present no statutory regulation of complementary therapists in Ireland.  However, complementary therapists are subject to a range of legislation and regulation, similar to other practitioners including consumer legislation, competition, contract and criminal law. Because so many people use alternative practitioners now, the Department published consumer guidelines about complementary therapy in 2014.  These guidelines pointed out that good complementary therapists would not claim they could cure a specific illness or condition and would not tell a patient to stop seeing their doctor or to stop taking medication prescribed by a doctor. Kathy Maher, a former president of the Irish Pharmacy Union who runs her own pharmacy in Duleek, Co Meath, says all parents - whether they go down a more 'natural' route or a more traditional route - are trying to do their  best. "Sometimes the natural route can be risky if there isn't the testing to back it up. For children's remedies, parents should always go to a healthcare professional.  Parents can always go to their pharmacy for advice because they're so accessible.  "It doesn't cost anything to come in and get some advice.  "I'd certainly steer away from buying medicines online," says Maher, a mum of three. "No medication is without its risks and side effects."  Health & Living 
