medicine
{  
    September 23 2007 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/end-of-scheme-set-to-hit-15m-on-medical-card-26320250.html }
Chaos is pending for the country's 1.5 million medical card holders as pharmacists are set to suspend the GMS scheme from December 1, over new funding moves introduced by the HSE this week. If the move is not reversed, pharmacies all around the country will be wiped out, says the pharmacy union. As part of the new proposal, which the HSE announced without consulting the Pharmacists' Union, the country's 1,600 chemists will receive less than what it costs them to provide the medical card scheme, which they say is unsustainable and will force them out of business. With 70 per cent of all medicines in Ireland handled by the GMS scheme, pharmacies are hugely dependent on it for their income. They have said they cannot run their businesses at a loss and as a matter of protest they will suspend the medical card facilities for their customers. That means that patients will be forced to pay for their medicines themselves or not take their medicines. The HSE and the Minister for Health Mary Harney have been called on to reverse the decision by the Irish Pharmaceutical Union. President of the IPU Michael Guckian said: "The medical card is not a viable scheme anymore. This announcement has effectively ended it." Paul Brennan, pharmacist in Ballyboden, Dublin, said this move will force him out of business. He said: "This will wipe me out. No doubt. I can't run my business at a loss, so I have no choice but to opt out of the GMS scheme. I don't want to do it, but I have no option. The direct result is that patients will either have to pay for the medicines or not take their medication." Brennan is angry that the HSE took this decision unilaterally without any consultation with their unions. "They call it a wholesalers deal, but the money paid to wholesalers hasn't changed. The only ones affected are us. They don't care that they will close pharmacies all over the country. They don't care that patients will be affected massively. For example, this move will mean we won't be able to provide insulin anymore. This will force people who need it into A&E." Noel Stenson, a rural pharmacist in Achill, has said that if the decision is not reversed he will be forced to close his doors. If that happens his customers would be facing at least a 100km round trip to Newport to get their medicines. Speaking to the Sunday Independent, he said: "I am a rural pharmacist heavily dependent on the GMS/Medical card scheme. The HSE now want to pay me less than what I pay for the medicines. How am I supposed to survive? It will decimate the local community." Mr Stenson said that unlike urban pharmacists who have a sustainable private trade apart from the medical card, the dependence on the medical card will wipe out rural pharmacies all over the country. 
