medicine
{ Alison O'Riordan 
    September 05 2013 06:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/doctor-feelgood-29554186.html }
If that was not enough, she also has a killer body and washboard stomach to boot. However, life has not always been so rosy for the Galway girl, who has spent years struggling with her weight despite swimming competitively. She began to put on weight at school, finding comfort in food and bingeing when her mood was low. "It was towards the end of primary school when I started to put on weight and was heavily influenced by my peers eating sweets, crisps and chocolate all the time, but they weren't getting fat," she says. "It was probably a combination of wanting to fit in and also rebelling against my mum who wanted to give me the healthier foods. "In hindsight, I think I suffered from depression as a result of bullying and parental separation/divorce and sugary foods became a comfort for me. It was the only thing that made me feel happy, even though it only lasted for a few minutes." A mindset change didn't come to the now 26-year-old overnight. "Initially I knew I had to lose the weight to succeed in swimming. Luckily, my mother put me on the right track by taking me walking with her, which was more like a sprint pace. I remember going on my first walk and seeing my mother effortlessly sprinting up the hill and me watching from a distance – panting heavily, soaked in sweat – at the bottom, wondering if I would ever make it up. "I told myself that day that I would never let myself get that out of shape again. It was a real wake-up call. I started to go to the gym to keep myself in shape, which usually involved very long periods of running on the treadmill as most girls do. My body never changed, I didn't get leaner, but I didn't get fatter either, so I figured that was okay. That steady running pace was always boring to me, but I did it because I knew I had to do something to stay in shape." It wasn't until Fionnula met her boyfriend, Bogdan Merkes, who was a personal trainer, that she discovered weight training was the means to getting a tight torso. "I'm not going to lie – when Bogdan told me I could work out in the gym for a maximum of 40 minutes, do no cardio, eat 3,000 to 4,000 calories a day and get leaner, I was sceptical. I gave it a try and found that I absolutely loved it. I loved pumping iron and I really loved my new physique, slim but with a nicer figure rather than the size zero models we're all supposed to want to emulate. I had curves in all the right places." Fionnula is a firm believer that all girls should train like guys to get that lean silhouette look, garnished with sculptured curves. "When I tell my friends what type of training I do, they're always shocked that I don't look more like Arnold Schwarzenegger. The fact is that girls don't have the same hormonal profile as males, so that even with lifting seriously heavy weights you won't become bulky, unless you're taking anabolic steroids. I see so many girls in the gym lifting 2kg dumbbells for squats. This is a complete waste of time. "If the weight isn't heavy enough to cause a burn at about the fifth rep of your exercise, it isn't heavy enough. "A lot of girls are slowly but surely beginning to ditch the treadmill for the weight room as they're really beginning to see the amazing results one can get from a fat-loss perspective. Pushing her body beyond its limits is what Fionnula does best with her daily workouts. "Unless you push yourself, you won't make changes. That applies to everything in life. You have to go beyond your comfort zone. Nothing in life is easy. If it is, you're not achieving anything." The buzz and excitement generated by competing in powerlifting for Fionnula is second to none. "I love getting psyched up to train, I love focusing my mind on my lifts and only my lifts and I love the endorphin rush once I've finished a set. It really doesn't get much better. For me, it's more difficult to take rest days than it is to train. If my coach would let me, and if I had the time, I'd train three times a day, every day." Fionnula used to weigh 55kg with 24pc body fat. She now weighs 60kg, but carries only 13pc body fat along with a well-defined and chiselled stomach. Becoming the national champion and record holder in powerlifting in Ireland and Europe in the sub-63kg category is a worthy achievement, but she is hoping to cut down to sub-58.5kg for the Powerlifting World Championships later this year. "I am now the top-ranked female overall in Ireland based on Sinclair, which is a formula used to calculate points based on body weight, age and weight lifted. This has been a great achievement for me. I genuinely never could have imagined I'd go so far in powerlifting when I attended my first meet in January. I started out at the National Single Lift Championships, securing gold in all three lifts and breaking two national records, and from then on I was hooked. I then won the European Powerlifting Championships in April. My lifts have qualified me for the World Powerlifting Championships in November." It was only when Fionnula discovered functional medicine, which has exploded in America but is slower to take off in Ireland, that she found her professional calling. "Functional medicine is an evolution in the practice of medicine that better addresses the healthcare needs of the 21st Century. Instead of looking at isolated symptoms and treating patients based on the traditional disease-focused model, I address the underlying causes of diseases and ill-health and use a systems-orientated, patient-centred approach such as testing to identify vitamin/mineral deficiencies, amino acid/organic acids imbalances, food allergies, hormonal imbalances and the like and apply nutritional and lifestyle interventions to promote wellness." She has also used her functional medicine to achieve peak performance in her own sport. "I lecture at the Institute of Health Sciences in functional medicine and functional sports nutrition, so I have spent a lot of time researching the best ways to use functional medicine to enhance sports performance. The main principle being that as athletes we first have to optimise baseline health before we look at maximising performance, something most athletes neglect, with the result of poor immune function, injuries and increased likelihood of overtraining." Shaped like a Coca-Cola bottle, it is understandable that women stop Fionnula in the street to comment on her physique. "Lots of women ask what I do to stay in shape. When I tell them I lift heavy weights they are always super-surprised and wonder how I'm not big and bulky. In particular, women ask how I get such toned legs to which I reply squats, squats and more squats." However, a lot of emotions are still stirred up when Fionnula sees the old picture of her expanding waistline many moons ago. "I get a lump in my throat every time I see that picture. That time was really difficult for me, and I am just so glad to have been able to pull myself out of it. It is all too easy to let yourself slide down a slippery slope. You have to consciously tell yourself over and over again that things have to change and you have to do something about it. It won't happen by itself." www.ultimatefitcrew.com Irish Independent 
