medicine
{ Ciaran Byrne 
    March 01 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/are-we-trying-to-prescribe-happiness-26426914.html }
The phone calls began at 6am when Professor Irving Kirsch was woken by a colleague calling from Hull University in northern England. The BBC wanted to interview him for its flagship TV breakfast programme. The professor's newly released study had caused quite a stir. The headlines were stark: "Drugs 'make no difference' to patients with depression," said one. "Drugs don't work -- official study," said another. The calls came thick and fast from Portugal, Spain, France and Morocco. The radio station NPR rang from Washington DC and the New York Times wanted a comment. "It was pretty intense," Professor Kirsch told the Irish Independent this week. "I knew there would be some level of interest but nothing like this." Hull University's press office knew. The headline on the press release read: "Anti-depressants are ineffective for most patients, study finds". And if people still didn't get it, it added: "There is little reason to prescribe anti-depressants to the majority of depressed patients." Within hours, 40 million current and former users of the anti-depressant pill family were told the drugs weren't working. Some panicked and rang their GPs. It was claimed those who took just a dummy pill may have benefited as much from the placebo effect -- where a person believes or imagines they are getting better. Prozac was dubbed the "Happy Pill" when it was first launched in Belgium in 1986, followed by its roll-out in the US and the rest of the world a year later. It quickly became an icon for a stressed-out generation where anyone could obtain, through a doctor, an instant fix of artificial happiness. The Prozac Nation was here to stay even if subsequent studies linked it with teenage suicides and doctors stopped prescribing it to other at-risk groups. InIreland, the price of happiness last week was €35.49 for a packet of 30 20mg Prozac tablets in a Dublin pharmacy. In a second outlet it was €32.22 for 30 tablets of Prozamel -- manufactured right here in the rural surrounds of Clonmel, Co Tipperary. For the drug firms, which last year enjoyed global sales of almost €5 billion, the news last Tuesday was an utterly unexpected bombshell. After initially defending the effectiveness of the medicines, they have since stayed silent, perhaps hoping the story will just go away. For Prof. Kirsch, it was a moment of triumph, as he embarked on a round of interviews that covered his university in glory. But now questions over the study are emerging, with senior Irish doctors doubting its accuracy and questioning its publication in an "obscure" medical journal. Some of Ireland's psychiatrists are also furious that their patients might now stop taking medication that they need -- blaming what they call the "sensationalist" study. After raising their concerns with Prof. Kirsch three days after the story broke, he claimed he believes anti-depressants do in fact work. Appearing to significantly downplay his own findings, he said: "I am certainly not happy with some of the attention this has got. I think there is some concern, particularly the idea that anti-depressant medicine does not work. "By and large, people taking the medicines did improve and I certainly do not want to take that away from them. But what it does indicate is that in most groups there can be substantial improvement without medication. "Nobody should decide to go off medication. If they have concerns they need to speak to their doctor. And for a lot of people, there are some for whom the medication is very helpful." Prof. Kirsch's study was a meta-analysis (a combination of several studies) of 47 clinical trials, including published and unpublished material. The data was submitted years ago to the powerful US Food and Drug Administration in support of licensing for four of the world's most popular antidepressant drugs. They were Prozac (Fluoxetine), Seroxat (Paroxetine), Efexor (Venlafaxine) and Serzone (Nefazodone) -- no longer sold in Ireland or the US. Kirsch's study states that all the drugs were selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), so-called because they stimulate the serotonin chemical that makes us feel good. But Venlafaxine is in fact a type of anti-depressant known as a serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (SNRI). This type of medicine acts on nerve cells in the brain. Some experts argue that this basic mistake undermines the credibility of the study. There is no doubting that our appetite for anti-depressants has soared. Figures show demand increased by more than 50pc in the three years to 2004. Last year the Health Service Executive spent almost €15 million on anti-depressants. Around 400,000 people living in Ireland suffer at some point from depression but renowned psychiatrist Dr Patricia Casey believes that some people who find themselves in unhappy situations are taking the pills too. "It might be a work situation, a row with the boss or they're drinking too much. The drugs are very much over-prescribed by doctors. I am not at all convinced depression is everywhere. "I believe, though, that where people are not functioning, not able to get out of bed, these drugs can be very good for them." Most of the drugs are made by a handful of major pharmaceutical companies such as Eil Lily (Prozac) GlaxoSmithKline (Seroxat) and Wyeth (Efexor). Some say the so-called "medicalisation of misery" has had benefits for those dealing with depression. Drugs like Prozac have also been used for treatment of bulimia, obsessive compulsive disorder and severe mood reactions to premenstrual problems. Kirsch's team studied unpublished clinical trial results carried out by the companies that were not made available to British or Irish authorities when the drugs were passed for use. Legally, the firms did not have to but it meant experts did not have access to all the facts. The Hull study said the drugs worked no better than a placebo for the majority of patients with mild or serious depression -- helping only those with the most severe forms of the illness. The implication is that the drug firms exaggerated their claims and selectively published data favourable to their products. In Britain, the Royal College of Psychiatrists called the findings "fantastically important" and said it had been "dangerous" for firms not to have published their full data. There's no doubt the study has triggered a fierce debate over anti-depressants, but in Ireland the reaction has been quite sceptical. Dr Conor Farren, senior consultant psychiatrist at St Patrick's Hospital in Dublin, said the authors had "overstated the negative and understated the positive". He pointed out that none of the Hull authors, including the psychologist Kirsch, is a practising psychiatrist and nor have they experience of dispensing anti-depressants. "To read headlines saying anti-depressants don't work is in my view totally irresponsible. I would be very concerned that people will now stop taking their medicines. "Two years ago, there was a panic in the US about young people becoming suicidal on anti-depressants. The FDA put a 'black box' warning on Prozac and the UK followed suit. "There was a massive reduction in the use of anti-depressants and a massive rise in suicides. The consequences now could be people throwing out their medicine, leading to the same thing happening here," said Dr Farren. A spokesman for the Irish College of General Practitioners said it too was wary of what was being reported in "a relatively unknown journal, an obscure journal". Dr Niall O'Cleirigh added that doctors would give greater credence to a study appearing in, for instance, the Lancet. His colleague, Dr Mel Bates, said he was "absolutely convinced" anti-depressants worked. Others welcome the debate and hope it will trigger a fresh look at treating depression and moving away from a chemical-only solution. GP and psychotherapist Dr Terry Lynch, who is the author of Beyond Prozac: Healing Mental Distress, said Irish doctors need a new approach as the current one is based purely on a medical model. "For years I have felt that the effectiveness of these drugs has been over-stated. We have been heading for a problem with these drugs [which are] often prescribed for people who are experiencing emotional distress." He said many people can work through this distress and of his patients, "I would say a minority need medication." As for Prof. Kirsch, he stands over his study. "I used to be a clinical psychologist. I work with depressed people and I do know the reality for the patient." 
