medicine
{  
    February 11 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/a-little-medical-humility-could-cure-some-ills-26399057.html }
One of my favourite pastimes is baiting members of the medical profession. It is a rewarding hobby. Unlike, say, cricket, it doesn't take up too much time, and, unlike golf, there is no specialist equipment involved. Its only drawback is that sometimes it's too easy. Deflating doctorly arrogance is sometimes irresistible. Try the following questions at a dinner party, making sure you are seated at least one place away from the medic: Why is it that around 7,000 people a year die from medical negligence in the UK? Why is it that around 40,000 die from MRSA-related illness in hospitals over there too? Would it be better, and cheaper, to stand on the M50 setting fire to ?50 notes than go to hospital? Surely one's chances of survival are roughly the same? Watching a programme called Alternative Medicine: The Evidence during the week made me want to take up my hobby again. Patronising It was presented by Professor Kathy Sykes, who has the customary patronising medical manner. The French, as usual, have a word for it - well more a phrase really: de haut en bas. The Prof wanted to see was there anything in this herbal medicine lark. Gaily ignoring the fact that various civilisations practised herbal medicine to good effect over 5,000 years ago, she waltzed around various locations examining the effects of Ginko, St John's Wort and other remedies. One of her pronouncements struck me: because herbs can be powerful medicines, they can be dangerous too. Because they have never been viewed as medicines, they have never been properly regulated. Viewed by the medical profession, I presume she meant. Since before the time of Hippocrates, they have been viewed as medicines by everyone else. The world view of the mainstream medical profession is an interesting one. Most of them believe the world began with the Enlightenment. They also have a touching faith in empirical research. Anything that cannot be proven to work in double-blind trials just simply doesn't work at all. Drugs work in double-blind trials, so they must be effective, mustn't they? To be fair to Professor Sykes, she did let in a chink of light at the end of her programme. She spoke to a London specialist who was having some success treating Alzheimer's disease with the herb, Ginko. This specialist found that Ginko was much more subtle than drugs in treating the disease. The herb worked on several aspects of the condition, while the drugs worked on just one. Doctors were only just beginning to understand they way in which herbs worked - that the sum of their effect was much great than the measurable parts. They called it synergy. We'd call it common sense. Primitive This seemed like news to the Prof, but can hardly be to anyone outside the research labs. Many of these ancient remedies work, and medical research has up to now simply been too primitive to discover why. Allen Roses, vice president of genetics at drug giant Glaxo-SmithKline, believes that "the vast majority of drugs - more than 90pc - only work on 30pc to 50pc of people". Drugs are often a blunt instrument, while herbs and other alternative treatments are moresubtle. Gradually, the doctors are realising their approach is just one among many of treating a disease. Once they accept that they do not possess the medical tablets of stone, they may deign to talk to the rest of us as equals. 
