medicine
{ Andrea Smith 
    February 12 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/a-diagnosis-of-music-in-the-veins-26408264.html }
WHEN interviewing Cora and Breda Smyth, the diagnosis is clear. The two sisters, who happen to have degrees in medicine, are also highly talented and accomplished musicians. Cora and Breda grew up in Straide, Co Mayo, with their two older siblings, Maria, and Sean, a founder member of the band Lunasa. The sisters are in their 30s and have a very close relationship, on both a personal and professional level. The situation was different when they were children however, as Breda points out that little sister Cora formed a strategic alliance with brother Sean, against herself and Maria. "It was very cute of me," agrees Cora, with a laugh, "because he was the oldest and he backed me up. We all got on great though, and, because we lived in the country, we hung around together as a family and played together." The Smyth family was a very musical one, with primary school teacher dad, TJ, playing traditional music in a ceili band. "Music was very much a part of our lives," agrees Breda, who is two years older than her sister. "Our mother, Nancy, was a primary school teacher before we were born, and she brought us to classical music lessons. We played fiddles, tin whistles, bodhrans and piano - we tried out loads of instruments, but we've really remained with the fiddle and tin whistle." As Cora and Breda got older, they became involved in Slogadh competitions and fleadh cheoils, collectively winning over 40 All-Ireland titles. Travelling to school in Castlebar on the bus every day meant that the sisters were always together. "I got a lot of advice from Breda around school and exams," recalls Cora, "and then we went to college in Galway together to study medicine. We had our individual friends and interests as well, although music was very much our common interest. We played at sessions the whole time, and were very much involved in the music scene at college and around Galway." The music and medicine thread runs strongly through the family, as brother Sean is a GP and musician. Their other sister, Maria, has a PhDin biochemistry. Cora completed her medical internship, and was then asked to play fiddle on the winning 1996 Eurovision entry, The Voice, sung by Eimear Quinn, a move that was to ultimately see her swapping patients' notes for musical ones. "After the Eurovision, I was asked to work on Michael Flatley's Lord of the Dance show," she says. "I had just finished my internship, so I took some time off to do the show. I went on to do Feet of Flames, and now I'll be performing as principal fiddler in the new show, Celtic Tiger, which is coming to the Point in April. It wasn't a major decision for me to choose music over medicine, and my parents were always really supportive. I love the music industry, but that doesn't mean I won't go back to medicine at some stage." BREDA has been with her husband, Jim, since she was in college, and they got married eight years ago. She combines her job in public health medicine with her music career, and raising her two small children, Donal, 4, and Blathnaid, 18 months. "I play at weekend festivals and wherever I can, around my work commitments," she says. "I was in a residentproduction of Feet of Flames in Las Vegas, and got to travel all over the world for years before I had my children. Time is circular though, and as they get older, I'll be able to do more again." For Cora, travelling the world and being away from family and friends can be a lonely experience at times. She feels very fortunate that she is able to work with her partner, Sean, who is a sound engineer on the shows. "We have been touring together for the past three years, and it makes it easier that the two of us are on the road together," she says. "It would be very difficult if one person was at home. We practically spent the entire year away last year with Feet of Flames, and you couldn't travel the word as intensively as I have done over the past eight years if you had children." The sisters have recorded an album together, simply called Cora Smyth, Breda Smyth, and they are currently on tour together around the country, prior to embarking on a tour of Germany. With Cora being a full-time musician, she is able to arrange their schedule around Breda's annual leave. Living around the corner from one another, they get to see each other several times a day when they are both at home. While leading quite different lives in many respects, their mutual love of music and performing is a huge connection. "We have a brilliant relationship on stage, because we both enjoy it so much," says Breda. "Cora has a great personality and sense of humour, and she's very direct. She has a bit of a short fuse though, but the thing with Cora is that it's all over then, and you will always know where you stand with her. I'm probably more reserved. Cora is an actress as well, and she has performed with the Druid Theatre company. She is really funny and is well able to take people off, and make a situation funny." "Yeah, I sometimes have no patience, and can be a little bit intolerant," agrees Cora, "but Breda deals brilliantly with every single person we meet. She's really patient, and she makes things work out in difficult situations. "Her time-keeping isn't the best though - she's definitely more relaxed about time than I am! I think working with your family is great though, because of the support element. You know exactly what you're dealing with - there are no idiosyncrasies that you're not exactly sureof, because you've been dealing with each other all ofyour lives." Cora and Breda Smyth will perform at St Brendan's Church, Bantry, on Thursday; Tintean Theatre, Arts and Cultural Centre, Kerry, on March 25, and the Cobblestones, Dublin, on April 8. Visit www. corasmythbredasmyth.com for further information 
