medicine
{  
    January 05 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/repeat-students-are-raising-the-points-bar-for-medicine-26402531.html }
Katherine Donnelly SOARING points for entry to prestigious healthcare courses are being fuelled by Leaving Certificate repeat students. Grind schools and others specialising in 'repeat' Leaving Certificates are likely to be contributing to the trend. They feature prominently in the league table of feeder schools for Dublin's Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) in the current academic year. The single biggest Irish source of medical students for the RCSI was the Institute of Education in nearby Leeson Street, which accounted for one-third of its Irish intake of 18. Similar schools which supplied a relatively high number of students for the Royal College of Surgeons, include the Limerick Tutorial College, Yeats College, Waterford and Leinster Senior College, Newbridge, Co Kildare. Four out of 18 students who started in medicine at the RCSI repeated the Leaving Certificate, in a year in which the points threshold for the course hit the maximum, unprecedented, 600. Five out of 30 pharmacy freshers in RCSI were also 'repeat' students. There was one 'repeater' among the 11 enrolled for physiotherapy. All the courses require high points and student desperation to get a place has fed the "grind" school and repeat Leaving Certificate phenomenon. The trend prompted a major review of medical education, leading to plans for a dual-entry system from next September - one for school-leavers and one for graduates - to ease pressure. As part of the overhaul, Education and Health Ministers Mary Hanafin and Mary Harney are considering doubling the number of places for Irish students. The maximum 600 points achieved by the eight scholarship students entering medicine in RCSI had risen from 590 points in 2004-05. But not even all who attained those points were guaranteed a place. In all, 18 students from the Republic started medicine in the RCSI this year and the points threshold for the remaining 10 was 580. Figures produced last year on the educational background of entrants to all the country's medical schools showed that in some cases students had sat the Leaving Certificate three times in order to achieve the necessary points for medicine. Overall, only 40pc of the places in the country's medical schools went to CAO applicants who sat the Leaving Certificate for the first time last June. An equal percentage of places went to repeat Leaving Cert candidates, mature students and deferrals. The remainder of places went to applicants from outside the State, mainly students from the North with A-levels. 
