medicine
{  
    April 23 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/flood-of-illicit-lifestyle-drug-imports-via-internet-26390853.html }
MEDICINES for impotence, depression, insomnia and skin conditions are being illegally imported via the internet. Customs officers are seizing pills and potions self-prescribed by people who are bypassing their doctors to save around ?50 a visit. The Irish Medicines Board confirmed that 40pc of the 514 enforcement cases taken last year involved illegal importation of medicines, many bought on the internet. The practice is illegal even if the website selling the products has a doctor on board. A trend is emerging of use of 'lifestyle medications', where somebody who is not suffering from an illness uses drugs prescribed for it for other reasons. Drugs used for heart disease among middle aged are consumed as slimming aids by young women, for instance. Pills for attention deficit disorder among children are used to boost the concentration of executives. Injections for Aids patients are used by people who want an instant facelift. The danger with such drug use is that the medicines have certain side effects, and a person's medical history or use of other drugs may not be taken into account if using these without a doctor's supervision. The drugs may also be counterfeit. The industry in such products is now estimated at over ?20bn, and they have also made inroads into the legitimate market. Illegally imported drugs seized last year included impotence treatments Viagra and Tadalafil, and sedatives for sleeping disorders with the active ingredient Zopiclone, which should be used for a short time only. Analgesics, commonly known as painkillers, also featured, along with medications which involve regulation of the thyroid or powerful creams for skin conditions. The anti-depressant Prozac is also popular. Internet purchase of this drug could mean the risk of dependency and overdoses. Anti-obesity drug Xenical causes excretion of fat, but it many lead to loss of bowel control. The fear is that it can be used indiscriminately by those with eating disorders. It should only be used in conjunction with a healthy diet. Ritalin is effective in treating children with attention deficit disorder, but the concern is that it is being purchased by young women to help curb their appetite, and business people to improve concentration, although there is a risk of heart attack. There are also reports that the cholesterol drug Lipitor is being abused as a slimming aid by women. Another alarming development is use of Serostim, the drug directly used to build up the strength of Aids patients. But some women are using it to make their skin tighter and body builders are buying it to bulk out their muscle. The Irish Medicines Board said there is no provision in Irish law permitting supply of prescription-only products via websites that have a doctor attached. It added: "Any such supply of prescription-only medicinal products into Ireland is illegal and falls within the prohibition on mail order supply as set out in regulations of 2003." 
