medicine
{  
    June 02 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/herbalists-refute-claims-criticising-remedies-27367037.html }
HERBAL remedies are far less likely to cause damage to the health of adults or children than many prescribed and licensed medicines  thats according to both a Kerry-based herbalist and the Irish Association of Health Stores.Both Christine Best, a herbalist based outside Tralee, and the chairperson of the IAHS, Jill Bell, contacted The Kerryman this week to respon HERBAL remedies are far less likely to cause damage to the health of adults or children than many prescribed and licensed medicines – that’s according to both a Kerry-based herbalist and the Irish Association of Health Stores. Both Christine Best, a herbalist based outside Tralee, and the chairperson of the IAHS, Jill Bell, contacted 
The Kerryman this week to respond to an article on herbal medicine which was featured in this newspaper last week. The article revealed how Kerry-based GPs have become concerned in recent weeks at the high alcohol content in some herbal remedies which are on sale in supermarkets and other stores around the county, and which can be easily purchased by children or young adults. Tralee-based GP Dr Bridget O’Brien said she had seen some such herbal tinctures with an alcohol content as high as 67 per cent. She expressed concern that such remedies could by given by parents to their children to counteract a complaint such as hay fever, not realising the potentially damaging alcohol content. She reported seeing a number of patients in her practice who became ill after taking herbal medicines. Christine Best, however, believes it is “highly unlikely” that a child would wish to purchase such remedies as they are very expensive and not very pleasant to drink. “The tinctures available in health shops are usually administered in drop doses and taken with water or juice,” she said. “The actual amount of alcohol that a child would receive during a 24 hour period would be only a few millilitres.” If a patient presents to their GP with adverse effects following the administration of a herbal remedy, then the Irish Institute of Medical Herbalists would like to be informed of the details, she said. The Kerryman was also contacted by the Irish Association of Health Stores, whose spokeswoman noted that “properly prescribed and licensed medicines are now the fourth leading cause of death in the western world.” “The truth is that a greater risk of alcohol poisoning exists from a can of beer than from a clearly labelled herbal tincture,” said IAHS Chairperson Jill Bell. “In fact there is more alcohol in a single ripe banana than in a single dose of most herbal tinctures. Parents administering such remedies to their children are not putting their children’s lives at risk. The remedies are sold with clear instructions on their usage, and those which are unsuitable for children of specific age groups, clearly have such age groups delineated.” Ms Bell also claimed that only herbal products specifically approved by the Irish Medicines Board are allowed to be sold in Ireland. Should there be any safety concerns, they would swiftly remove such products from the market, she said. 
