medicine
{  
    July 21 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/traditional-chinese-medicine-man-qiao-lin-dai-healing-in-listowel-27367393.html }
QIAO Lin Dais Charles Street practice is an increasingly popular healing centre these days with many in North Kerry. Perhaps Listowel is one of the last places you would expect to find a practitioner of a millennia-old medicine in. Then again, perhaps not - Listowels open-mindedness has always attracted many walks of life, now more so than ever. Qiao (pronounced QIAO Lin Dai’s Charles Street practice is an increasingly popular healing centre these days with many in North Kerry. Perhaps Listowel is one of the last places you would expect to find a practitioner of a millennia-old medicine in. Then again, perhaps not - Listowel’s open-mindedness has always attracted many walks of life, now more so than ever. Qiao (pronounced in a similar way to the Italian slang for goodbye, ciao)‚ has lived and worked in Listowel for quite a while now, as he explains: “Many years ago I met a person who was from Listowel, in England. He had some health problems and I cured him of them. In gratitude he brought me to Listowel on holidays.” He hasn’t looked back since. “I found the people here to be very friendly and relaxed - John B Keane and his family made me feel very welcome and comfortable,” he said. “I then moved here five years ago.” He now lives here permanently with his wife, Xia Zhang, son, Andrew Dai, and daughter, Anni Dai. Qiao himself comes across as a very measured and calm individual - if he found respite in Listowel it might have been after a long search that took him from his native Shanghai, through England and beyond. The contrast between Listowel and his native city couldn’t be greater - one a vast commercial hub, the other a peaceful (relatively speaking) Irish town. Peaceful though and all as Listowel may be, there is still a great demand for Qiao’s healing techniques. “I practice a combination of Chinese medicines,” he told 
The Kerryman. “Acupuncture would be my main discipline but I also use Qi Gong, which is a form of healing exercise,” he said. “Traditionally in Chinese medicine we can help most of the body’s problems. Here, in my practice I teach people how to help themselves too - I advise them on a lot of lifestyle issues, such as diet and exercise. “For example if someone comes to me with asthma I might need to look at their diet and change some of it. I might need to teach them some exercises that they can use to help themselves as well,” he explained. Acupuncture, previously regarded in the west as an exotic curio rather than a fully-fledged science in its own right, is now becoming more and more respected. After all, time has tested and refined it. Plenty of time. To give an example of its potential Qiao explained: “A woman came to me here some time ago. She told me that she had had a kidney transplant and because of this had problems maintaining pregnancy. “So I looked at her whole system and began a course of healing it. “It wasn’t about healing one area but all of the body, the whole system. I used a combination of therapies to make her body right, to be able to hold the baby. “She gave birth to a healthy baby last February and she is very happy now,” he said. Happy‚ is one modest way of describing the emotional state of Qiao’s patient. Modestly is probably the only way in which he can describe his work. What information and understanding of the human body lies within Qiao Lin Dai’s mind is anyone’s guess. But make no mistake - it is considerable. 
