medicine
{ Kim Bielenberg 
    August 22 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/barred-from-medical-school-why-grade-a-rejects-feel-sick-26560351.html }
They are the unlikely victims of the Leaving Cert -- the students who scored perfect grades in their exams, but cannot get into medical school. They are the new grade-A rejects, and most of them are girls. A year ago, aspiring doctors such as Marie Claire McGrath would have been shoo-ins to become medical students. Marie Claire from Tipperary scored a perfect 600 points in the Leaving Cert this year, but she cannot get into medical school, because she didn't meet the required standard in a highly controversial aptitude test. The new HPAT (Health Professions Admissions Test), introduced by medical schools at the behest of the Government this year, claims to test personal skills and professional attributes needed to be a doctor through a series of multiple-choice questions. The sample questions, available on the internet, read like the sort of quiz you might come across in a magazine such as Cosmopolitan, and also seem to test similar skills to a newspaper Sudoku. Not everybody in the medical profession or in academia is impressed, to put it mildly. Highly respected cancer specialist, Professor John Crown, claims the new system of admission is "insane''. He believes it discriminates against women. And a leading academic Dr Sean McDonagh, a former director of Dundalk Institute of Technology, told me he believes the test is "baloney''. "Introducing this system is like organising a horse race and handicapping the fastest horse,'' said Dr McDonagh. Former Education Minister Gemma Hussey added fuel to the fire this week when she said the test, which is said to favour boys over girls, is "very sinister''. The controversial introduction of aptitude tests or the HPAT -- in combination with Leaving Cert results -- was supposed to address a problem that has been the subject of debate for decades. There has long been a perception that the brainboxes who score close to maximum points in the Leaving are not always the most suitable candidates to become doctors. They may have proved their ability to regurgitate facts, but do they have the personal skills to talk to Mrs Jones with sensitivity about her dodgy knee -- or maintain their composure while carrying out brain surgery at two in the morning? According to the examiners, HPAT-Ireland, the medical aptitude test measures a "candidate's logical reasoning and problem-solving skills as well as non-verbal reasoning and the ability to understand the thoughts, behaviour and/or intentions of people".' "It is designed to complement academic achievement, by providing assessment of skills in the areas of reasoning, understanding and working with people. HPAT-Ireland has a strong focus on general skills and personal abilities. These skills have been identified as important for a competent health professional.'' However, Professor John Crown, consultant oncologist at St Vincent's Hospital, told me he did not believe the aptitude of candidates could be gauged in a multiple-choice test. "This is just a cave-in to politically correct bureaucrats. I believe it is crazy. Why have we changed the system?" he asked. "The idea that the young doctors who got perfect Leaving Certs are egg-headed nerds, who are not rounded individuals with boyfriends or girlfriends or interests outside medicine, is a total myth.'' The new test inevitably means that some of the highest achievers in the Leaving Cert may miss out on their chosen profession. Under the system, the number of points a candidate can gain from the Leaving is capped at 550. The points are then added to the score from the aptitude test, which has a maximum score of 300. In some cases, students were barred from medical school after losing out to students with up to 80 points fewer in the Leaving. The new system also means that more boys have received CAO offers of medicine. It brings a greater gender balance into medicine degree programmes which were increasingly female-dominated as girls outperformed boys in their exams. There was an immediate drop in the number of offers to female candidates -- from 60pc to 52pc. It was widely accepted that the points requirement for entry to medicine was too high, and that there were flaws in the admission system. Michael Earley, one of the country's most respected plastic surgeons, entered medical school at UCD in the 1960s. He readily admits that his Leaving Cert score at the time would not be enough to qualify to enter the profession now. "I think the points system is inadequate for choosing future doctors. I think some kind of structured interview, combined with a reasonable number of points, would be better. "There is a danger in the profession that we are creating scientists with an interest in how the body works. Unfortunately, there is also a feeling that you can make money in a recession-proof profession. It is hugely important that students understand that they are entering a caring profession.'' Mr Earley says dexterity can also be crucial. No matter how many A1s a student has achieved, a cack-handed surgeon is no use to anyone. The university medical schools reject the idea of any kind of interview, fearing that it could introduce an element of cronyism. Shaun McCann, Professor of Academic Medicine at Trinity College, welcomed the restoration of gender balance among entrants. However, he acknowledged that it was impossible to find a perfect admission system. "It is hard to assess which system works best. We will admit students now, but it could be 15 or 20 years before we know whether they make good brain surgeons.'' The controversy over entry into medicine is just beginning. At least one disgruntled parent of a Grade-A reject told me this week she would be mounting a legal challenge to the HPAT, claiming that its use is unfair. It may be a long time before we can assess the efficacy of the aptitude test. But in the short term, the biggest beneficiaries of the HPAT could be members of another profession -- the lawyers. 
