medicine
{  
    March 03 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/pharmacists-want-medicines-plan-to-avoid-massive-waste-on-unused-27534073.html }
LAST YEAR, one and a half tonnes of unused medicines were returned by members of the public to pharmacies in one Health Board area under a Dispose of Unused Medicines Campaign. This was highlighted by the Irish Pharmaceutical Union last week when it appealed to the Minister for Health to establish a Medicines Management Regime in partnership with pharmacists to ensure best value for the State’s drugs bill, which is currently running at ?600 million per year. This is one of the issues being advocated by the IPU, which represents some 1400 community pharmacists, at an Information Day for TDs and Senators. “A Medicines Management Regime would ensure that heavy users of drugs could have their medication and needs reviewed on a periodic basis to improve compliance, and reduce unnecessary wastage and spending on drugs”, says Mr. Michael Guckian, a Sligo pharmacist. The IPU also wants the Minister for Health to introduce a structured health promotion role for community pharmacists, and it also wants the Department “to work with pharmacists to encourage greater use of generic drugs in a planned and organised manner”. The Union also claimed that the capacity of the pharmacy sector to continue to deliver a quality service will be undermined unless legislators act immediately to ensure that pharmacy stays in the hands of pharmacists. This is the model in place in 11 out of 15 EU Member States, including France and Germany. Ireland now has the most un-regulated pharmacy market in the EU. An un-regulated, open market will result in domination by a few supermarket style pharmacy chains and a diminution in patient care which will inevitably lead to pharmacy closures in small towns and other marginalised areas. Local pharmacist Michael Guckian, Mulreany’s Pharmacy, said: “It is time the Government took action to ensure that this one part of the health service that is working well is not undermined.” Mr. Guckian also says that “community pharmacists can do more to combat illness and provide better value for the taxpayer. Improving drug compliance reduces hospital admissions. The incidence of medication related hospitalisation, including compliance, in older people – who are the highest users of pharmacy services – ranges from 12% to 31%”. 
