medicine
{  
    March 24 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/euro-commission-should-intervene-to-support-south-africas-effort-to-provide-affordable-27451870.html }
Collins Fianna Fail Munster MEP, Mr Gerard Collins, today called on the European Commission to put pressure on the 39 pharmaceutical companies who are currently blocking South Africas efforts to make essential medicines more accessible to its people. "I fully support the South African Government's efforts to improve access to medicine. In 1997, Nelson Mandela signed a law aimed at making essential medicines more affordable and accessible to its people. The law is consistent with South Africa's international obligations as a member of the World Trade Organization. However, since 1998, 39 drug companies have sued to block it from coming into force. In the three years in which the companies have tied up this legislation in the courts, more than 400,000 South Africans have died of HIV/AIDS, almost all of whom lacked access to affordable treatments. This situation is totally unacceptable. I believe that if enough international pressure is exerted on these 39 companies that they can be persuaded to drop their case. I have been in contact with Commission President, Mr Prodi, and Trade Commissioner, Mr Lamy, and urged both of them to exert their influence and help the South African government to save the lives of their own people. We have to ask what the World Trade Organisation is there for, to represent its members or the profits of pharmaceutical companies. Can we really expect developing countries to support WTO trade talks and trade liberalisation if we do not listen to their concerns on matters of life and death such as this? "This case exposes the lengths that the industry will go to protect its patents and profits, despite the immense human cost. With over four million already infected with HIV, South Africa has the highest number of people living with HIV/AIDS in the world. Very few can afford the treatment that has extended and improved the lives of people in richer countries. Since 1998, the pharmaceutical industry has blocked the medicines legislation, claiming it would infringe on their patent rights. High prices are effectively denying medicines to poor patients, condemning them to a premature death. This is a landmark case and the decision of the courts will demonstrate to the world whether patents and profits take precedence over people. Every day in South Africa patients die simply because they cannot afford the medicines that could extend and improve their lives. The bitter irony is that cheaper, quality versions of these drugs exist, but current laws prevent patients from getting them in South Africa." 
