medicine
{  
    June 09 2010 08:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/state-ban-could-hinder-legitimate-industries-27802743.html }
CONTROLLING products sold in head shops through State agencies would hinder the pharmaceutical industry, while complexities remain as the substances do not fall within existing food and medicine frameworks. That's according to Marita Kinsella, the chief pharmacist at the Department of Health and Children, who was responding to Dr James Reilly's calls to ensure all products sold were approved by the Irish Medicines Board and the Food Safety Authority of Ireland. 'One of the significant issues in terms of trying to ban substances in advance, before one makes them legal, is that it would hamper to a certain extent the ability of valid, legitimate industry to be able to innovate if it was proposing to develop any new substances and it were necessary to get approval in advance from various State agencies to carry out the necessary tests to better understand those substances,' Ms Kinsella explained at an Oireachtas Health Committee meeting. 'The other complexity in that regard is that the substances concerned do not technically fall within the definition of medicines because they do not have any valid medicinal uses. They have an effect, but they do not have any beneficial use to a patient. 'Neither do they fall within the definition of food because they are clearly not food substances. They do not fall within the structure of existing frameworks, especially in terms of the medicines and food legislation which is highly regulated at a European level. 'We do not have the same scope to introduce national provisions on medicines and foods.' Earlier, Dr Reilly suggested introducing directives to bring head shops under planning legislation, with restricted opening hours and a ban on stores opening with 10km of a school, club or pub, saying it would 'go a long way to putting these people out of business'. 'We are trying to protect our young people and children from being exploited by ruthless individuals, who care not about the health consequences of the substances they produce,' he said. 
