medicine
{ Grainne  Cunningham 
    November 16 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/harney-under-fire-over-plan-to-charge-for-medicines-26582416.html }
PRESCRIPTION charges for medical-card holders sparked angry opposition from the country's pharmacists as well as those representing the old and the poor. Health Minister Mary Harney last night defended the proposed charge as a means of discouraging overprescribing and the overuse of medication. But the Irish Pharmaceutical Union (IPU) warned that the move could result in the underuse of essential drugs by medical-card holders, who would be reluctant to pay the extra charges. "We would be concerned that any such measure could lead to the underuse of essential medicines by vulnerable patients. . . it could end up pushing patients into hospitals," an IPU spokeswoman said. The IPU has previously raised the issue of medicine wastage with both the HSE and the Department of Health but its proposals met with "absolutely no engagement" from either body, the spokeswoman said. "We suggested that pharmacists carry out medicine-use reviews that would highlight if there were issues over medicines being wasted," she said. Meanwhile, the vice-president of St Vincent de Paul, Professor John Monaghan, said that people who get a medical card are "in dire need". Prof Monaghan said he had met with Ms Harney on Thursday and had made it clear that the organisation was opposed to many of the proposals in the McCarthy report, one of which was a recommendation for charging for prescriptions. Bonus "The people on medical cards are already the people who have lost the Christmas bonus, which represents a 2pc cut in their income. They are the only people in the State who have seen their social-housing rent increase and that is before the Budget goes through," he said. He said the Society of St Vincent de Paul had also made it clear that the organisation was "very much in favour of generic drugs. We are not opposed to the concept of saving money. But a fee per prescription takes no account of ability to pay". Last night, Age Action also condemned the proposed charge per prescription item as a tax on the most vulnerable. Head of Advocacy and Communications Eamon Timmins said: "How does charging the patient reduce the number of items on a prescription? She should talk to the doctors, not penalise the patients." Irish Independent 
