medicine
{ Katherine Donnelly Ralph Riegel and  Anne Lucey 
    August 14 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/a-team-reveal-secrets-of-their-success-26469119.html }
IT takes a lot of hard work too, but top Leaving Certificate student Orla Houlihan revealed relaxation played a crucial role in her stunning nine A1s success. And at least one of the 13 candidates close behind her put their eight A1 achievements down to having luck on her side. Three of the 13 included a remarkable hat-trick from Christian Brothers College (CBC) Cork. Orla (17), who attended Intermediate School, Killorglin, Co Kerry, said taking regular breaks from study was key to her winning combination. "I hung out with my friends and I did Tae kwon-do,'' said Orla, who has secured her place in Medicine in University College Cork. (UCC). The trio from Cork CBC, Kevin O'Keeffe, Mark Moriarty and Ian Chisholm, credited their "fierce" Maths teacher Anne Barry-Murphy with their class' great result in Maths. Other Cork students who scored eight A1s were Kenneth Howick, Skehard Road, at Colaiste Chriost Ri, Eabhann O'Connor, Glanmire, at St. Aloysius in Carrigtwohill, and Kate McCutcheon, Model Farm Road, at Mount Mercy. Kenneth hopes to study Pharmacy at UCC while Kate, a member of the Irish team at the recent International Maths Olympiad, plans to study Maths at Cambridge. Despite a few sleepless nights at the start of the Leaving Certificate, 18-year-old Sinead Newsholme, Skerries Community College, Co Dublin, went on to score eight A1s. Her next step is a degree in Medicine at UCD. Dearbhla Doherty (18) puts her eight A1s down to "mostly luck, or about 50:50 work and luck, great teachers and a great school", said the Muckross Park College, Donnybrook past pupil. Dearbhla, of Upper Rathmines Road, Dublin, now plans to follow a family tradition -- Medicine in UCD. Conor Leahy waited until he knew most other students would be gone before he ventured to Templeogue College, Dublin yesterday. Word was out in the school that a student had achieved the maximum 600 points and his friends "who were running out of people to put it on, were waiting for me when I arrived" said Conor, who will study English at Trinity. Even before yesterday's results, Liam Townsend (18), Lucan, Co Dublin, already had a track record in excellence, having brought honour as an athlete and a senior junior and senior rugby player. The gold medal debater is going to study Medicine in TCD. Also bound for Medicine in Trinity is Craig MacLiathain (18), Newcastle, Galway, a former pupil at Colaiste na Coiribe, who has ensured his dream third-level college place -- living away from home and in TCD's all-Irish speaking student quarters. Sinead Cawley, Kintogher, Sligo, admits to having been a "pretty dedicated" student but "can't believe it". Sinead will study Biomedical Science at UCD. Robert Murphy (17), Ennis, is happy that the anticipation is taken out of the wait for the first round of CAO offers and is off to University College, Cork to study Medicine. 
