medicine
{  
    January 17 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/a-better-route-to-medicine-26345181.html }
Medicine is one of the most competitive areas in third-level education. In recent years, none but the highest achieving school-leaving applicants has had any chance of gaining a place in undergraduate medicine. Significant changes are taking place in the medical education sector, however, with the planned introduction of a new method of selection and more places in undergraduate medicine, and an increase in the number of graduate courses in medicine. Q What is the new method of selection for undergraduate medicine, and when is it being introduced? A Applicants to medicine for 2008 will not be affected by the planned changes. They will come into effect next year. Selection for undergraduate courses in medicine in the five undergraduate medical schools, UCC, UCD, NUI Galway, Trinity and RCSI, will be based on two elements, performance in the Leaving Certificate and performance in a separate admissions test. Applicants with school leaving examination results of 480 points or higher will be eligible to take this test. The admissions test will examine mental skills, reasoning, personal skills and professional attributes. It will be marked out of 280 points, and the applicants' points in the admissions test will be added to their Leaving Certificate points. Part of the aim of the whole process is to reduce the huge pressure on applicants to achieve almost perfect points, as competition for places now requires, so there will be a reduction on the value of Leaving Certificate points after 550. After this cut-off point, applicants will be awarded just one point for each band of five points, so that an applicant with 555 points will be awarded 551 points, one with 560 points will be awarded 552, and so on to a maximum of 560 points for an applicant with 600 points. The maximum combined score that an applicant may achieve will be 840, and the lowest combined score will be 760 (480 Leaving Certificate points + 280 admissions test points). It is hard to anticipate with any certainty what impact the new process will have. High achieving candidates usually do very well in aptitude tests, so they may still come out on top. The main effect may be seen among applicants in the 550 to 600 Leaving Certificate points band, where the reduction in the value of the Leaving Certificate points of some applicants will allow others on less points who perform slightly better in the aptitude test to overtake them. It will probably all come down to a few points difference between applicants, but only time will tell. Q What about graduate entry to medicine? A As interested applicants may know, four-year graduate courses are already running in the University of Limerick, and the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI). UCD was first out of the blocks when they introduced a graduate entry to medicine in 2006, but they did not receive authorisation to offer that entry route in 2007. However, both UCD and UCC are now authorised to offer four-year graduate entry to medicine in 2008. Neither course is included in CAO's 2008 Handbook, but can be found in the 'important changes' list on the CAO website. Q Who may apply for graduate entry to medicine? A Graduates with at least a 2:1 honours degree in any discipline will be eligible to apply, and must sit a GAMSAT or graduate medical schools admission test. The graduate medicine courses are not covered by normal free tuition fees scheme, which applies to first time undergraduates only. But the Government will pay for half the fees, paying €13,000 of the €25,000 fee per annum per eligible student. Today: Information evening in Trinity College Dublin from 4.30pm to 7.30pm. 
