medicine
{  
    October 03 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/clear-out-all-unwanted-medicines-26918820.html }
The Disposal of Unwanted Medication Campaign got underway yesterday (Tuesday) and continues throughout the month of October.For safety reasons, medicines should never be disposed of with other household waste or flushed down the toilet.Over the years, medicines can The ‘Disposal of Unwanted Medication Campaign’ got underway yesterday (Tuesday) and continues throughout the month of October. For safety reasons, medicines should never be disposed of with other household waste or flushed down the toilet. Over the years, medicines can build up in the home and it’s a good idea to check your medicine cupboard to see what medicines are no longer required and to dispose of any which are unnecessary or have gone out of date. Medicines should be kept in a cool dry place, out of sunlight. All medicines, including seemingly harmless medications like cough bottles and vitamin tonics, should be locked away safely and out of reach of children. Last year, the National Poisons Information Centre received 2,375 calls concerning children under five who had taken medicines in error. Elderly patients tend to need more medications and often have larger amounts of medicine in their homes. The NEHB is urging those who help care for the elderly to bring those medicines which are no longer required to their local pharmacy for safe disposal. Your local pharmacist is an expert on the use of medicines and is always available in the pharmacy to help with any queries. The more you know about your medicines, the more you will be involved in your own health care. Rules for dealing with medicines in the home:  Take your medicine exactly as director on the label or by your doctor.  Finish all of your medicine unless your doctor tells you not to.  Store medicines in a cool dry place, out of reach of children.  Don’t share your medicines with others or use prescriptions not prescribed for you.  Check expiry dates. Don’t use out of date medicines.  Ask your pharmacist if you have any queries about your medicines. 
