medicine
{ Samantha McCaughren 
    June 10 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/enforcers-team-to-crack-down-on-illegal-medicines-26083135.html }
A TEAM of enforcement officers is being set up to crack  down on dangerous and illegal medicines after a tightening  of regulations resulted in 300 investigations over 15 months. An enforcement officer was appointed by the medicines regulator, the Irish Medicines Board, over a year ago to investigate the extent of the problem here. This assessment has led to establishment of a six-person team to fight breaches in medicines law. Since his appointment in April 2000, Hugo Bonar has initiated 300 investigations and a number of prosecutions are to follow. The first case takes place next Monday, involving sale of a herbal cream containing steroids. Anyone found to have violated regulations can face fines of up to £100,000 and/or 10 years in prison for a first-time offence. Mr Bonar said misuse of licensed and unlicensed medicines is an ongoing problem which changes rapidly. Recently he targeted use of Botox, a controversial beauty treatment made popular by celebrities and being provided by a number of beauty clinics here. Botox is basically the bacteria which causes botulism and is used to smooth out wrinkles. "It is very serious prescription medicine which is not licensed for cosmetic purposes and is meant for serious medical complaints," Mr Bonar told the Irish Independent. Use of the drug in beauty salons had been "nipped in the bud" and some prosecutions were now likely to follow. Another new problem is availability of prescription skin-bleaching products, reflecting the growing multiculturalism of society here. Prescription-only products are being smuggled into the country and sold through non-pharmaceutical shops. Said Mr Bonar: "This is a growing problem we intend to crack down on." His investigations of these products also uncovered sale of a counterfeit medicine, "replicated and presented in exactly the same way as the authentic medicine but which may not be man ufactured in appropriate conditions." Added Mr Bonar: "This is a major crime problem worldwide, especially in developing countries." Part of the enforcement offi cer's work is to liaise with international agencies to keep ahead of medicines violations. Traditional Chinese medicine is another problem which has emerged in recent years as people look to alternative forms of medicine. "We have identified a number of dangers and illegal drugs: for example shu gan wan, which we have warned the public about because it contains extremely toxic levels of mercury." More common difficulties are sale of pharmacy-only drugs in shops and petrol stations, which are very limited in what they can sell. Said Mr Bonar: "Some can be sold without prescription, but only in a pharmacy, where someone is at hand to give advice." He is also clamping down on sale on medicines through mail order, illegal here. Advertisements for the enforcement team have been placed, with appointments due from June 20. 
