medicine
{  
    July 09 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/the-medicine-cabinet-in-your-back-garden-26262255.html }
Feeling peaky? A Galway doctor and herbalist says a natural remedy could  be under your nose, says DAVID STOREY. Could our grandmothers' quaint herbal remedies be better than modern wonder drugs? According to Dr Dilis Clare, a Galway-based herbalist, our overreliance on the products of the pharmaceutical industry is at least part of the reason why we seem to be in poorer health than our parents and grandparents were. As we have become richer we have forsaken their knowledge of natural remedies and adopted what she calls the rich man's medicine. We ignore the healing benefits of many common plants growing on our doorstep in favour of expensive chemical cocktails. "The cost of mistakes with pharmaceuticals is enormous," says Dr Clare. "People taking the wrong medicine or taking too much of it is a major problem. Patients are given a drug and then later have to be given another drug to deal with the side effects of the first one. A significant proportion of hospital admissions are due at least partly to the side effects of medicines." Although Dr Clare is a qualified herbalist she is also unusually in the field of alternative medicine a conventional doctor, having studied medicine at University College Dublin. In her 10 years of general practice in London she felt that medicine was becoming too pharmaceutical. "There was too much emphasis on which drug to choose and which company to buy it from," she says. Dr Clare returned from England three years ago to set up her clinic of herb-based natural healing in Galway. "What attracted me to herbal medicine was that, unlike many other alternative medicines, it's not a belief system. If you drink chamomile tea it will relax you whether you believe in it or not. Just as linseed will relieve constipation or aloe vera will help with sunburn." Dr Clare does not reject the benefits of modern drugs, but says many common ailments and diseases can be solved with natural plants and herbs such as nettles, hawthorn leaves and elderflowers. "In the 1950s, half the remedies in the medical dictionaries were plant based," she says. "Now the use of such natural products in conventional medicine is dramatically reduced. Doctors are not being trained in the benefits of natural products. There are strong links between the medical schools and the pharmaceutical industry." Although herbalism is viewed as an alternative medicine, it has a firm basis in scientific research, as well as in generations of anecdotal evidence. Unlike many alternative treatments, which come from other cultures, herbalism has been practised in Ireland almost since time began. Nearly everyone's grandmother has their own special remedy. And everyone has been given a dock leaf to put on a sting at some time in their lives. As a qualified physician, Dr Clare is one of the few alternative practitioners who can prescribe St John's wort, which was recently banned from general sale. She doesn't charge for a prescription, however. She doesn't agree with the ban, as she says most herbs are perfectly safe for most people. And she would like to see more research into the medicinal effects of herbs. It seems nature has produced the natural remedies needed to combat the health problems in any part of the world. "I was looking at a field in the west recently," says Dr Clare. "The predominant plants in the field were Meadowsweet and St John's wort. What are the two biggest problems in this part of the world? Arthritis and depression. Meadowsweet can be of considerable benefit to arthritis sufferers and St John's wort is widely used to alleviate depression." Dr Clare can list dozens of common plants with health benefits, such as elderflower, which are freely available and can easily be gathered and prepared for home use. But a word of caution is necessary. Many wild plants are poisonous, and many species look similar to each other. Unless you are an expert in plant identification you should check with a qualified herbalist before using any plant remedy. But even before you do that, think about improving your health by improving your diet, she says. Eating fruit and vegetables, grains, oily fish, chicken and pulses is the key but too much concern about heath and diet can become a disease in itself. "Everyone needs a mixture of diet, quiet and laughter in their lives," says Dr Clare. "Sometimes I simply recommend a patient go home and watch Fawlty Towers." - Dilis Clare is the chairwoman of the Irish Herb Society, an information forum on herbal medicine. It welcomes members of the public. Contact Alternative Health & Herbs, 11 William Street West, Galway (091-583260). These are also the contact details for Dr Clare's consulting rooms  David Storey  Six remedies growing on your doorstep  BOGBEAN Common in bogland, the bogbean has fleshy leaves that are sometimes used as a cure for overindulgence and hangovers. Nine fresh leaves or a teaspoon of dried leaves left in a cup of boiling water for 10 minutes will help flush out the lymphatic system and clear stagnant elements from the blood. CHAMOMILE Grown in the wild and cultivated, the flowers of the chamomile plant are used in the treatment of nervous disorders. A favourite of herbal-tea drinkers, chamomile tea helps steady the nerves of those suffering from stress and is taken to combat insomnia. It's also taken by women for menstrual cramps. An oil made from the plant is used in the treatment of skin infections. DANDELION Dandelion is nature's detox plant. The leaves promote a good flow of urine and help to increase the functioning of the kidneys. You can eat the leaves in a salad, as the French do. The roots of the dandelion plant are also beneficial for anyone suffering from complaints of the liver. Simply dig up the roots and boil them for about five minutes. Take two teaspoons of the liquid per day HAWTHORN Hawthorn is nature's anti-ageing bush. The leaves and flowers of hawthorn help the body mop up the by-products of ageing cells. This apparently helps to keep the body 'flowing' and reduces the effects of ageing. Older people will benefit from eating them in a salad or on bread and butter, as was common in the past. They can also be taken as a herbal tea. MEADOWSWEET Meadowsweet contains natural aspirin and is good for pains and headaches. Unlike pharmaceutical aspirin, which can adversely affect the stomach, the aspirin in meadowsweet will soothe the stomach area. It is particularly beneficial for those suffering from pain in their joints. NETTLE The most widely available health-giving plant which you are as likely to find in a city garden as you are in country fields is the common nettle. It is a scourge of gardeners and farmers alike, and most of us try to dig or spray the weed out of existence. Nettle soup is a good all-round pick-me-up, though. Nettles contain many of the minerals that are lacking from our diet. They help to clear the kidneys and, being rich in iron, are good for anyone suffering from anaemia. They also benefit hayfever sufferers. More beneficial than spinach, nettles can be used similarly in cooking. Fried in a little butter, the young shoots are tastier than you might except. Alternatively, like many beneficial plants, nettles can be taken as a tea. Simply pop two sprigs of the plant in the pot and leave to infuse for a few minutes. CAUTION Using the wrong plant can be dangerous. You should check with a qualified herbalist before using any plant remedy 
