medicine
{  
    August 16 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/more-medicines-to-require-a-prescription-from-a-vet-25902397.html }
NEW EU regulations due to be passed in September will mean farmers will need to get prescriptions for more medicines than ever before, but may not need a veterinary prescription for some medicines that they currently need a prescription for, writes Margaret Donnelly. The move has been severely criticised by the Independent Animal Health Association who say it will add more cos NEW EU regulations due to be passed in September will mean farmers will need to get prescriptions for more medicines than ever before, but may not need a veterinary prescription for some medicines that they currently need a prescription for, writes Margaret Donnelly. The move has been severely criticised by the Independent Animal Health Association who say it will add more costs and increase bureaucracy to farmers. While the Department of Agriculture has admitted the move is "quite radical", it says it is not a weakening of controls. The Department hopes to have a finalised plan to change the current Animal Remedies Act before the Animal Remedies Consultative Committee in September. If this committee passes the plan the regulations governing animal medicines can then be changed by the Department of Agriculture. A spokesperson for the Department said the changes will mean that farmers no longer require a vet to call to a farm and inspect an animal in order to prescribe many medicines. However, a vet's call would still be needed to prescribe innouous medicines, such as those intermammaries. "We probably have the most intensive regulations in the EU, for as it currently stands a vet must inspect an animal before prescribing any prescription medicine. "Until now that was fine as a lot (of medicines) were not covered by the Prescription Only Medicine (POM) rule. "But we have to implement a 1999 report, by the Irish Medicines Board, that states that intermammaries be made POM, as they contain antibiotics. "More and more medicines are getting a POM status from the EU. In order to accommodate this trend, which is irreversible and imminent, and implement the IMB report we have to make changes." The proposals remove the requirement for a vet to prescribe prescriptions through a farm visit. This, the Department says, will mean that vets who have a bona-fide relationship with farmers, need only visit the farm maybe once or twice a year. 
