medicine
{  
    October 14 2015 03:48 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/clear-out-your-medicine-chest-31606733.html }
A free service to dispose of unused or out of date medicines has been available to the general public in Cork and Kerry since  Monday, October 5, and will contue until Sunday, November 15.  The 'Dispose of Unused Medicines Properly' (DUMP) campaign has been organised by the HSE with community pharmacists in Cork and Kerry and is supported by Cork City Council, Cork County Council, Kerry County Council, and the Southern Regional Waste Management Office, based in Limerick. Almost all pharmacies in Cork and Kerry are participating in the campaign and are actively encouraging people to return unwanted or out of date medicines to them so that they can be disposed of properly. Medicines can accumulate in the home for a variety of reasons e.g. unfinished courses of antibiotics or a condition/illness that is no longer a problem and subsequently the remainder of the medication is not used. Also, older people or someone with an ongoing illness can often have large amounts of medicine at home. Whatever the reason, the HSE and pharmacists would urge householders to take this opportunity to dispose of unwanted prescription or over-the-counter medicines. HSE Pharmacist Louise Creed explains why people should take this opportunity to safely dispose of unwanted medicines. "Medication can pose a real hazard in the home, particularly to children or other vulnerable people. Clearing out your medicine cabinet is something that should be done on a regular basis. Check all the dates and remove anything that is out of date or no longer required. As well as the hazards posed by overdose, accidental poisoning and damage to the environment, medicines can change when out of date and may end up being harmful," she said. Storing large quantities of medication at home can pose a hazard and put people at risk of accidental poisonings. Approximately 4,000 children in Ireland are accidentally poisoned each year and most of the incidents happen at home, according to figures from the Poisons Information Centre in Beaumont Hospital. Brightly coloured medications or liquids can easily be mistaken for sweets or drinks by children or other vulnerable people. There is also an environmental concern with the careless disposal of unwanted medicines. They are often dumped with other household waste, flushed down the toilet or poured down the sink. These methods of disposal can seriously harm the environment with products ending up in landfill, permeating the soil and entering our food chain and water supply. Most households will always have a quantity of medicine in their home and it is important that it is stored correctly and out of reach of children or other vulnerable people. There are a number of steps you can take including: l Ask your pharmacist to put your medicines into a child-resistant container. Remember these caps are child-resistant not childproof! l Keep all medicines, even seemingly harmless medicines, well out of reach and sight of children on a high shelf or in a locked press. Don't forget that children can climb higher than you think! l Ensure that your child-minder keeps medicines out of your children's reach l Grandparents and older people are more likely to have medication in their homes, so when visiting their house make sure all medicines are out of children's reach l Always keep medicines in their original pack or bottle and do not take the label off l Keep your medicines in a cool, dry place, out of sunlight and away from direct heat (e.g. a radiator or fire) l Medicines should not be stored in the kitchen or in the bathroom. The heat and steam in these rooms could damage the medicine l Some medicines must be kept in the fridge but should never be in direct contact with food in the fridge. If you have a freezer compartment in your fridge, don't put medicines in the shelf below it in case they freeze. If your medicine freezes, check with your pharmacist if it is still safe to use l Ask your pharmacist for advice if you are unsure about where to store your medicines l Don't hoard medicines, unless they are part of your family First Aid kit l All the same precautions should be taken for household chemical products such as bleach, and weedkillers, which should be stored safely and disposed of at your local Civic Amenity Site. The 'Dispose of Unused Medicines Properly' campaign has been operating in Cork and Kerry since 2007. In 2012, more than 3.8 tonnes of medicines, were disposed of as part of the campaign. Kerryman 
