medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent 
    May 11 2014 10:33 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/more-drugs-will-be-made-available-over-the-counter-30265288.html }
MORE medicines are to be made available without a prescription – saving patients an expensive trip to the doctor.  The drugs regulator has identified a range of around 20 products that will be made available over the counter in pharmacies and may include migraine medicines and commonplace anti-fungal drugs. Pat O'Mahony, chief executive of the Irish Medicines Board (IMB), said preparations are at an advanced stage to take around 12 of these medicines off prescription shortly and patients are likely to be given easier and cheaper access to the remainder next year. Speaking at the Irish Pharmacy Union annual conference in Cavan over the weekend, he declined to disclose the medicines on the list. However, they are likely to include some products which are already available over the counter in the UK. Drugs which may be included in the list include the medicine fluconazole – used to treat fungal infections such as thrush – which is available only on prescription here but can be purchased over the counter in Northern Ireland. Pharmacists also recently called for the migraine medication Sumatriptan, to be available here without prescription, as it is in the UK. They argued it would allow migraine sufferers to access appropriate and effective treatment from their pharmacist without delay. "We have long argued that too many medicines are prescription only and that pharmacists should be empowered to have greater discretion in deciding whether to dispense medicines to patients," said Kathy Maher, the new President of the IPU, as she welcomed the move. "This is key to improving public access to medicines in a safe environment. Today's news is very welcome and we will engage with the IMB to ensure that this progresses as quickly as possible." She said the public will benefit through having easier access to the medicines which can be obtained over the counter in consultation with a pharmacist. For private patients it will cut out the need to pay the doctor a fee of around €50 in order to get a prescription. Ms Maher, who is a pharmacist in Co Meath, also revealed the findings of an IPU survey showing that 38pc of medical card patients "think twice" about filling prescriptions because they will have to pay a levy of €2.50 for each medicine. She warned this was leading patients to "ration" their use of medicines with potentially harmful consequences. She said while the charge will not be scrapped it is time to exempt some vulnerable groups including people who are receiving palliative care, the homeless and residents of nursing homes. Irish Independent 
