medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    October 19 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/watch-out-for-medicines-that-can-harm-young-teeth-26574849.html }
A spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down but it also may be rotting children's teeth. A group of specialists in Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children in Crumlin, Dublin, believe many healthare professionals may be unaware of the dental decay caused by frequently taking liquid medicines containing sugar. They point out the majority of medicines for children are in a liquid form so that they can be easily swallowed. "To make these more palatable, sugar is used in the preparation process. Sucrose is the most frequently used sugar, due to its low cost, resistance to bacterial decomposition, long shelf life and its syrupy consistency. "Artificial sweeteners are frequently used instead of sucrose in liquid medications to avoid the harmful effects of sugar-containing formulations on dental health, but their use is not universal. "Some liquid medicines are available in both sugar-free and sugar-containing forms and the packaging of both formulations may be similar in appearance," the specialists from the hospital's Department of Paediatric Dentistry wrote in the Irish Medical Journal. "For example, there is an abundance of formulations of liquid paracetamol, ibuprofen and antitussives available over the counter and careful examination is required to differentiate between sugar-free and sugar-containing versions."  Bedtime Parents should ask their doctor or pharmacist if there is a sugar-free version of the medicine. If taken at bedtime, sugar-containing liquid medicines may remain in contact with the teeth during sleep, when there is little salivary secretion. "This may result in the development of extensive early childhood caries," they warned. Medicines which can contain sugar include cough syrup and those given to children with heart ailments, long-term infections or seizure disorders. Pharmacists are in an ideal position to influence the choices made by parents, they suggested. One study found that parents were more willing to ask a pharmacist for a sugar-free medicine rather than their doctor. "The reasons for this included a reluctance to interfere with a professional decision, as well as the assumption the doctor will know best. Doctors and healthcare professionals should prescribe sugar-free liquid medicines or medicines in tablet form if possible. If the medicine is only available in a sugar-containing liquid formulation, advice should be given to the child's parents and carers. Irish Independent 
