medicine
{  
    October 23 2007 03:18 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/hse-urges-householders-to-dump-unused-medicines-27065255.html }
The ?Dispose of Unused Medicines Properly? (DUMP) campaign, which has been organised by the HSE with the community pharmacists, will start on Monday October 22 and run in participating pharmacies until Monday December 3. More than 190 pharmacies throughout Cork and Kerry are participating in the campaign and are actively encouraging people to return unwanted or out of date medicine to them so that the material can be disposed of safely and properly. The previous (and first) DUMP campaign which concluded in March this year saw a staggering 2.5 tonnes of unused medicines returned by the public to their local participating pharmacy. Medicines can accumulate in the home for a variety of reasons ? unfinished courses of antibiotics or a condition/illness that is no longer a problem and subsequently the remainder of the medication is not used. Also, older people or someone with an ongoing illness can often have large amounts of medicine at home. Whatever the reason, the HSE would urge householders to take this opportunity to dispose of these unwanted medicines safely. Storing this medication at home can pose a hazard and put people at risk. In 2006, the National Poisons Information Centre received more than 8,000 enquiries about pharmaceutical overdoses ? 48% of these involved children. There are an average of six accidental deaths due to medication poisoning each year in Cork and Kerry. Medication is prescribed to cure illness/infection. However, sharing or not completing courses of medication may cause illness, injury, or even death. When antibiotics are used inappropriately (ie not completing the course or sharing with someone), not all bacteria are destroyed and more resistant bacteria survive and multiply. These drug-resistant bacteria then make it harder to prevent and treat infections because fewer antibiotics are effective against them. Every year more than 1,000 people present to hospital emergency departments in Cork and Kerry due to intentional overdoses of medication. While several medications can be taken in the overdose acts, almost half (44%) involved a minor tranquilliser, 33% involved medicines containing paracetamol and 25% involved antidepressants/mood stabilizers. In Cork and Kerry each year there are approximately 75 deaths by suicide. On average 15 of these are due to an overdose of medication. Unwanted medicines are often dumped with other household waste, flushed down the toilet or poured down the sink. These methods of disposal can seriously harm the environment with products ending up in landfill, permeating the soil and entering our food chain and water supply. We would strongly urge people to take this opportunity to get rid of out of date or unused medicines,? said pharmacist Louise Creed. ?Medication can pose a real hazard in the home, particularly to children or other vulnerable people. Clearing out your medicine cabinet is something that should be done on a regular basis. Check all the dates and remove anything that is out of date or no longer required. As well as the hazards posed by overdose, accidental poisoning and damage to the environment, medicines can change when out of date and may end up being harmful.? Please take some time to check out what?s in your cabinets and avail of this free service over the coming weeks,? added David Lane, Drug & Alcohol Services, HSE South. 
