medicine
{  
    January 13 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/alex-just-wants-a-normal-life-36469404.html }
Open letter to Taoiseach Varadkar and Minister Harris Dear Sir, I have written to many Government departments and offices, a number of times already in search for answers and help in getting access to a medicine that is working for me.  Unfortunately, it is necessary for me to try again and put my case to someone who will listen to what I am trying to achieve and hopefully I will get a satisfactory answer and action.   My letters and questions put forward by Fergus O'Dowd, have been short and to the point.  I believe that I have been forced to send this, because nothing what so ever, seems to be happening for me. Gino Kenny's quotes in the Dail 08/12/17: "But there's lessons to be learned here, and this should never happen to an individual again. It really throws up a lot of questions about the licensing system of the Government and why has only four licences been issued by our Minister for Health Simon Harris?"  "This Bill has been in the system for nearly 17 months and Irish citizens are still being forced into exile, or having to beg, steal, or borrow to get access to a medicine. A medicine that controls, epileptic seizures or could even save lives.   Deputy Kenny's Cannabis for Medicinal Use Regulation Bill is currently moving through the Dail, at what he admits is a very slow pace, maybe some Irish citizens should start taking the same action as the citizens in Florida? https://hightimes.com/news/florida-lawsuit-aims-put-medical-marijuana-program-gear/  A Florida lawsuit aims to put its medical marijuana program into gear. "This is something Dublin needs to do now."  The suit begs the question: how long does it really take to implement a marijuana law?  The suit is against state health officials, suggests that Florida has been dragging its feet just like Dublin, when it comes to officially launching its comprehensive medical marijuana program. " It is being called, Compassionate Access Programme in Dublin."  I am informing you of this and what is possible,  because I feel our Minister for Health, Simon Harris is leaving me with no alternative, but to break the law.    TDs or individuals working as employees of the Government at Leinster House,  are supposed to give help to people in their community, with an aim to improve things for everybody in that community. I have heard that TDs spend a lot of time dealing with special interest organisations and special cases.  E.g. Gino Kenny (People Before Profit) & Vera Twomey's case where her daughter was authorised a licence so she can legally receive Medical Cannabis in Ireland.  I am also looking for a TD/person, to help me and be a voice in Dáil Éireann, to highlight my battle to keep my epileptic seizures under control.  I understand that TDs will spend time, developing new ideas and policies on issues that they are interested in.   I realise that one of the most important responsibilities TD's have, is assessing New Laws: One of the most important tasks of Dáil Éireann is also making new laws. "This is something that is not happening fast enough, regarding making Medical Cannabis a legal Medicine in Ireland, as it is already, in so many other countries, including Belfast.   Most new laws and Bills are proposed by the Government, after the Taoiseach and Ministers have discussed the issue. This Bill has been in the system for nearly a year and a half where Gino Kenny has worked hard to "TRY" to make this a legal medicine and get this new law to become a reality.  "I must battle every day, to stay seizure free and to achieve this, I must break the law every month.  All I am asking from Government members, is to decide on a course of action. I am asking any Government member/person,  who will invest time and will take an interest, in my case and battle to stay seizure free.  To achieve this, all I am asking the reader of this letter is, write to or phone my neurologist Dr Delanty.    I ask you to  send him all the necessary paper work,  so it will be possible for that doctor, to finely apply for a licence to our Minister for Health, so that same doctor, will be able to prescribe Alex Baizert Medical Cannabis (Both THC & CBD) the same as Ava Barry is receiving.   I myself have been taking these oils for over a year, my neurologist is fully aware.  This government continues to force me, to break the law every month.  I must get a small percentage of THC into me, which helps me control my epileptic seizures and gives me a better quality of life and my only way to do that is to buy cannabis and make the Cannabis Oil myself.  But our Minister Simon Harris, continues to refuse to give the name of the "Month & Year" this programme will be available to patients like myself and many others.  I understand that a proposed new law, such as making Medical Cannabis available to patients like myself, must to be debated in Dáil Éireann and then in Seanad Éireann. This detailed look at the proposed law is very important to ensure that this new law, is fair and just. It should be the same for Bills and the faults found by the Health Committee should have been found, a lot earlier than 17 months.   When the United States of America is on the way to getting every state to accept Medical Cannabis, why cannot Ireland learn from the countries that are way ahead of this Government and make this a Medicine a lot faster, so that people like Alex Baizert do not have to break the law, to stay seizure free?  TDs will continue to debate the reason why, this new law has to be introduced and that is all that is going on, a lot of talk.  While people like myself, are being left, to continue to have seizures or break the law to stay seizure free.    In the New Year, I am sure another group of TDs will form another committee with a new name (Experienced Group better than the current Expert Group) , which will examine this new law line by line. "Why were the errors in Gino Kenny's  Bill, not found earlier?"  These TDs can try to change parts of this law or Bill. As you are aware a proposed change to the any new law or this Bill is called, an amendment and this is what is happening now, even our Minister for Health asked Gino Kenny to. "Work on this Bill.   TDs again have taken another a vote, to see if the majority of them want to amend this new law or Bill.  I understand that this Bill has reached Committee stage and will get there some time, early in the New Year.  When the committee has finished its work the proposed Bill, will then be brought back to a full meeting of Dáil Éireann again, where TDs again will, examine the amendments the committee might have made or that the Minister is proposing. Finally all TDs in Dáil Éireann have to approve the proposed Bill again. If the TDs don't agree that it is a good idea to make this medicine legel, they will take another vote. "But those TD's are NOT taking the epileptic seizures and waiting for action. I have written to you and I have spoken to, many TD's over the last year.   Fergus O'Dowd is a local TD who has supported my battle to control my condition and make this a medicine.  I have done this myself but I am currently, being forced to break the law every month.  I am looking for help, from someone who will invest his or her time in my case.    At the moment, Irish citizens are still being forced to go to another country to be prescribed this medicine, medicinal cannabis that should be prescribed here. Unfortunately I am on a disability allowance and have been unemployed since my last brain surgery, two years ago. I cannot afford to go abroad.  I am relying on my home country and the Government running this country.  I am only battling to stay seizure free and keep this better quality of life, I currently have found, thanks to Medical Cannabis.   Regards  Alex Baizert  Drogheda Drogheda Independent 
