medicine
{  
    January 07 2013 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/so-who-knows-best-mum-or-the-pharmacist-28955883.html }
As a parent who just wants to soothe a sick child, Amy Vickers investgates why certain over the counter medications are no longer deemed suitable for small kids. Constant struggle: Amy Vickers, pictured with her daughter, finds the array of pharmacy rules confusing Iwalked away from the shop, face burning with humiliation and shame, having been turned away. No I'm not 15 and trying to buy alcohol or cigarettes. I am a 40-year-old mother-of-three, trying to buy a recommended teething remedy for my three-year-old girl. I pleaded with the sales assistant, "She's been taking it since she was a year with no side effects." Her face filled with horror as she shook her head. I remember my GP's exact words: "You can give Dozol for teething-related colds, and even though it's reclassified as two-years-plus, it's safe from three months in moderation." But as I found out to my frustration, there is a world of difference between what GPs tell you and what pharmacists let you buy over-the-counter (OTC). Furthermore, there is great deal of confusion surrounding the new recommendations for cough and cold remedies, which came into force in September 2011. One mum I spoke to about this topic said: "Doctors are more willing to negotiate. Pharmacists are point blank: rules are rules, there are no grey areas. Most pharmacists try to be helpful – but you can tell that their license relies on them toeing the line exactly. "I've found myself begging in a pharmacy after being honest about my kids' age – for example, when they were 22 months and needing something licensed for two and up. It's really frustrating, but I understand why they do it. In the end they do not have the benefit of discretion or knowledge of individual patients that doctors do when making their decision." But what is to stop a parent walking into the next pharmacy and telling them what they want to hear, in other words lying about their child's age? For the sake of another frustrating battle with a pharmacist, I admit I've done this to get my hands on a medicine my doctor has said will work for my "underage" child. Part of the reason we go to pharmacists for basic medications is because GPs are expensive, but we could end up having to pay our GPs for "permission slips" to buy everyday medicines. Are parents wrong to tell little white lies about their children's ages? Orla Molloy, spokesperson for the Irish Medicines Board (IMB), which licences medicines, says: "We don't want parents going off-label and using these products when they've been measured in terms of benefit and risk and deemed not safe enough. We're just saying that they're not suitable for the under sixes. We're here to protect the public – it might seem that that from a parent's point of view that the medicine is the answer to their prayers but we want to avoid over-reliance of them when not necessary because they are too high risk." In my case, I was told Dozol, which contains the active ingredient diphenhydramine (the same as in Benylin), was now only available for over six years. I went away and checked with the manufacturer Rice Steele, who told me that the pharmacy was wrong, its product had not been banned for under sixes. This created a three-way dialogue between myself, the manufacturer and the pharmacy, until eventually I received a grovelling apology from the head pharmacist who said he and his staff were "not aware of the licensing arrangement". I won this particular battle but many others I have lost. I understand why they say no; they are scared of the consequences of selling a product that may produce an adverse reaction in large doses or when mixed with other medicines. Whether we like it or not, our children are the Calpol generation where baby paracetamol and Nurofen is often the first port of call for any childhood ailment. There are so many products on the market, but with that choice comes temptation. The ingredients haven't changed, just the fact that someone gave the medicine wrongly. Is this cause for a ban? 'It's not a ban," insists the IMB, "We don't like to use that word as it's quite alarmist. They're recommendations." Yet there is no scope for giving parents the benefit of doubt. One parent I spoke to suggested: "If pharmacists are concerned about repercussions, then maybe they should have parents sign a disclaimer absolving pharmacists of blame – letting parents take on the risk if they really want a certain product, such as Benylin for a four-year-old. I've used these products sparingly for years on my kids and now because of a few cases of negligence in the US, I can't buy them anymore. Is that fair?" Ireland is following the UK and the US towards tighter regulation of medicines for the under-sixes. A few years ago, the drug-store shelves in the US were full of cough and cold remedies, many of which were not fully tested. Last year, the governing body, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), banned 500 products containing the decongestants pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine or ephedrine and tightened up licensing after a two decade review found 54 reports of deaths in children. Most of the deaths involved children younger than two and were over-doses and/or mixed with other drugs. The same active ingredients have been tightened up in Ireland, but thankfully, it seems we are more careful at administering medicines than our American cousins. "In Ireland, the IMB has received reports of allergic reactions, sleep disturbances and agitation," adds the IMB. "However, the number of reports received cannot be used as a basis for determining the incidence of a reaction as neither the total number of reactions occurring, nor the number of patients using the drug is known. "Although these medicines have been used for many years in children, there is no robust evidence that they work in children. Given that there have been international reports of harm with these medicines the IMB undertook a formal evaluation of the benefits and risks of these medicines in children." Parenting a sick child is very tough, especially when the available options to relieve their suffering has been reduced dramatically. In the words of the IMB, these "cough and cold medicines are not a cure, they only relieve symptoms and make your child feel more comfortable", but when you're child is restless and suffering with a chesty cough all night, I'll take relief and soothing over giving nothing and not getting restorative sleep. Most parents I spoke to said they are being made to feel that they are doing harm to their children by trying to buy these medicines: "I could have cried the other day when a pharmacist wouldn't give me baby Piriton for my 16 month old who was covered in angry looking hives" Another mum said: "It's their tone and the way they ask 'what's it for?' that gets me. I know their job is to dispense medicines according to the rules but it feels a bit like they don't want you to take anything" According to the Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland (PSI) Guidelines, pharmacists have a duty to respect customers. It says: "The patient should always be aware that they have a right to refuse the advice given. All staff should be aware that they have a shared responsibility to patients in regard to their own health and wellbeing, and that this should not compromise the ability of patients to exercise free choice regarding a health issue." It goes without saying that parents don't want to endanger the health of their child, but when they are suddenly told that the medicine they've been using for years is now risky for their child, who should they believe, their instincts or the authorities? Kate O'Flaherty of the PSI, says we should go along with the authorities: "I can understand that when there are updates and changes in practice, such as this one in relation to coughs and colds medicines, it may cause frustration or concern for parents who have been using the medicines, without any ill-effects to their children's health, under the 'old' advice. But these decisions and recommendations are based on evidence and are made in the genuine best interests of the population as a whole. "The review of these medicines actually began in the USA a few years ago when FDA records showed that between 1969 and September 2006 there had been 54 deaths in infants attributed to these types of medicines, so there were genuine public health safety concerns behind these moves." "Obviously any drug should only be used when it's necessary and where there is a benefit. You mention Dozol, one of its ingredients is diphenhydramine, can cause side-effects such as drowsiness, agitation and effects on heartbeat, which may be helpful in understanding why pharmacists in general would be concerned about its use in young children." The deaths in the US are alarming, and whether we like it or not, we are becoming more and more like the US every day. Perhaps the answer is a return to our grandmother's medicine of honey and lemon for a cough (although the drops of whiskey wouldn't be allowed nowadays) and Vicks Vaporub on the chest and feet for a cold. However, even Vicks is being reviewed in the US after misuse caused children to end up in hospital when it was swallowed or put under the nose. So now Vicks is not recommended for under-twos. Most things in life can be dangerous if used incorrectly but it's a shame that the everyday choices of millions of people are reduced because of a small minority who inadvertently ended up causing harm by giving wrong doses. Health & Living 
