medicine
{ Katherine Donnelly  and John Walshe 
    August 17 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/600-point-students-fail-to-get-a-place-in-medicine-26559051.html }
A RADICAL shake-up in how students are selected for medicine courses has blocked some of the country's top students from the course of their dreams. The controversial introduction of aptitude tests or the HPAT -- in combination with the Leaving Certificate results -- means that some of the highest achievers have missed out on medicine. In some cases, students who achieved the maximum 600 points have missed out on a place in medical school. The new system also means that more boys have received CAO offers of medicine. It brings a greater gender balance in medicine degree programmes which were increasingly female-dominated as girls outperformed boys in their Leaving Cert exams. Another significant difference this year is a big cut in the number of candidates getting into medicine after repeating the Leaving Cert. These changes have stirred major upset with huge disappointment from some students who achieved the maximum 600 points. In some cases, they failed to gain entry to medicine after losing out to students with up to 80 points less, after they did better on HPAT. Despite the disappointment, the five colleges with medical schools -- UCD, TCD, UCC, NUIG and the Royal College of Surgeons -- said last night that early indications were that the new selection process "has widened access to medicine". The Leaving Certificate points of those receiving an offer today ranges from 520-600, which were combined with HPAT scores of between 153 and 225, giving total scores of between 713 and 779. Under the old system, entry to medicine was based purely on Leaving Cert results, and the minimum points were in the range of 570-590. Some say HPAT has merely created new inequalities. A key aim of the change in the selection process for medicine was to take the heat out of the points race, which saw students striving for a perfect 600 to be sure of a place. A lack of transparency and the absence of an appeals process around HPAT, which 3,000 medical school hopefuls sat in February, are among the concerns highlighted by critics.  Appeals Irish medical schools are anxious to have an appeals system and one is almost certain to be introduced next year. However, a spokesperson for the Australian administrator of the test said "there has never been an error found where we have run an appeal process". Two features of the new selection process that were immediately apparent was the more even gender balance and the significant increase in the number of students securing places on the first sitting of the Leaving Certificate. This year, 48pc of CAO offers for medicine are going to male students -- up from 40pc last year -- with a corresponding drop from 60pc to 52pc in the proportion of offers for females. The medical schools have said they will carry out further analysis of the new selection process in the coming weeks. Students with 480 points who sit HPAT are considered for entry. A maximum score of 300 would have given a combined result of 780 to a student with 480 points. 
