medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    October 22 2014 01:24 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/patients-at-risk-as-cost-cutting-leads-to-drugs-shortages-30683513.html }
Patients have been put at significant risk because of a shortage of some medicines in the past year, pharmacists have warned. They say Government action to lower the prices it pays for drugs mean those medicines are being exported out of Ireland to countries where they command higher prices. Among the drugs in short supply has been Lyrica to treat seizures and Epilim, which is given to adults and children with epilepsy. Another drug which has run short in pharmacies is Cymbalta, a treatment for depression. Pharmacist Kathy Maher, President of the Irish Pharmacy Union, said a survey of 150 colleagues found the majority had experienced medicine shortages in the past year and 87pc believed it will get worse, She said: "Over half believe that the health of patients has been adversely affected by medicine shortages. Pharmacists believe that Government action to reduce the price of medicines, among other causes, is resulting in the short supply. "Patients are being put at risk and are anxious that they won't be able to get their medication." She added: "Our survey shows that pharmacists are spending anything from five to 10 hours a month resolving medicine shortages instead of directing their efforts and professional expertise towards the needs of patients. "And it looks like this situation is set to continue, which is totally unacceptable." She suggested: "Lower medicine prices are leading to the export of certain medicines out of Ireland to countries where medicine prices are higher. It is basic economics. "We are a very small market in a global context and, if it is not advantageous for suppliers to sell into the Irish market, they will go elsewhere with the result that Irish patients experience a shortage of medicines." A spokesman for the Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association, representing drug companies, said a key element of the supply agreement with the State is that the supply of medicines is protected. "But from time to time disruptions to supply in the market place can emerge with individual products," he said. "These arise as a result of manufacturing processes, but in more recent times, shortages have emerged due to the trading of products across European markets which occurs when the price in one country has been pushed well below that in other countries. "Our member companies work tirelessly to secure the availability of medicines for Irish patients, however, these cross border trading issues are beyond their control." Irish Independent 
