medicine
{ Dan O'Brien 
    October 23 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/dan-obrien/dont-raise-your-glass-to-end-of-rip-off-republic-35153598.html }
Medicines and alcohol cost more in Ireland than most other European countries. The latter is expensive because taxes on drink are the highest in Europe. The former are overpriced because drugs-makers use their huge presence in Ireland to squeeze taxpayers' money from the State and because the State won't do more to take on anti-competitive practices in the retail pharmacy business.  Decisions taken by courts abroad last week could affect the prices of both in Ireland in the future. Consider drugs prices and costs first. By some measures, Irish people spend more per person on drugs than any other EU country, and that is despite the average age of the population being among the lowest (older people take more medicines).  Much of this is to do with the retail end, as anyone who has compared prices of many medicines in Irish pharmacies and foreign ones will know. A study carried out for the Irish Pharmacy Union in 2014 showed that the average pharmacy made a quarter of million euros in profit off average turnover of €1.6m, and that is after staff, including owners, have been paid salaries. Economists call these "supernormal profits" because rates like that are well above those in normal competitive markets. If the sellers of medicines to the public have had it far too good for far too long, the makers have not been far behind. That is not so surprising. Big pharma worldwide  is among the most effective lobby groups globally. In Ireland the sector wields more power than almost anywhere else thanks to the (hugely positive) role it plays in the economy.  Medicine-makers employ more than 30,000 people, mostly in high-paying jobs. They also power the economy's merchandise export engine - a handful of manufacturers, mostly in Cork and thereabouts, account for well over half of Ireland's total receipts for the sale of goods exports to the rest of the world.  While attracting some of the biggest companies in the sector globally has been a central part of the success story in luring foreign investment, it has not come without some downside. The amount the State spends directly on medicines quadrupled in the decade to 2008. This increase was allowed to happen in part because successive governments during the boom did not worry enough about taxpayers' money, but also because the drugs companies were never shy about hinting at the possibility that they might up sticks and take their manufacturing plants elsewhere (cost containment did kick in after the crisis hit).  The combined power of makers and sellers of medicines has cost the consumer and taxpayer dearly, and it is not uncommon for those unfortunate enough to have to take expensive medicine, but fortunate enough to travel abroad reasonably regularly, to buy their medication in foreign pharmacies. Those who are unable to travel have to face both illness and a fleecing. But what, you might ask, about the supposed free movement of goods within the EU? If the basic idea of the European project is about free movement of goods, services, people and capital then why can't we buy medicines online from cheaper countries? As it happens, the EU court in Luxembourg decided on just such a case last week. A group of Germans trying to cut the costs of medicines for people suffering from Parkinson's disease, by purchasing from Dutch mail-order pharmacy DocMorris, have been fighting a case all the way to the Luxembourg court.  Last Wednesday, the judges found in their favour, saying that curbs on the importation of pharmaceuticals from the Netherlands, as a means of bypassing German price-fixing, constituted an unjustified restriction of the free movement of goods.   It remains to be seen whether the ruling will have an impact on Irish consumers' right to buy the medicines they need from other countries and save a pretty penny in the process, but it gives some hope that rip-off practices will be squeezed in the future.  It is lamentable that while many things that could have been done over the years to cut the cost of medicines weren't done, the need for politicians to be seen to be doing something about alcohol consumption has triumphed, with efforts to impose a minimum price for alcohol by legislation ongoing.  A decision by a court in Scotland on Friday, after the matter had already been to the EU court, makes it more likely that this stupid idea will be implemented in Ireland. And the idea is stupid not because it won't be successful in reducing alcohol consumption - that is debatable based on the evidence, as discussed below - but because of who gains from minimum pricing. A minimum price will force supermarkets and off-licences to increase prices, but not pass on the additional revenue to the Exchequer. By bumping up the retail price by legislative fiat, rather than adding a tax, sellers of alcohol, many of whom already benefit from limited competition thanks to licensing laws, will make fatter margins.  If the retail price of alcohol is to be increased to reduce consumption, the sensible approach is to ensure the State pockets the additional revenue raised (and don't just take my word for it - the ever authoritative OECD has said this of the effects of minimum pricing: "the additional money spent by drinkers will go to alcohol manufacturers and retailers"). If minimum pricing is a very bad idea, there is also reason to question the benefits of higher alcohol prices via taxes. Alcohol consumption per capita in Ireland has been falling since the turn of century, during which time it has declined by a quarter. Not only that, it appears as if the long-yearned-for change in Ireland's culture of alcohol use and abuse may finally be happening - there are some pretty decent signs that younger people are drinking less than when we older types did when we were youths (I heard a university lecturer observe last week that while 10 years ago swathes of students were regularly hungover at morning lectures, that is no longer the case). It is not clear what is driving the reduction in consumption (most likely a range of factors), but it is true that we still drink more than most other countries in Europe. That is the case despite alcohol in Ireland long being the most expensive in the EU. As of last year Irish alcohol prices were 75pc more expensive than the EU average. Such high prices also come with their own less than welcome consequences. One is that they draw criminals into the market. In recent years there has been a rising incidence of cheaper alcohol being put into branded bottles. There have, too, been cases of that happening with illegally distilled spirits which can kill. This is also offsetting fiscal impact on higher prices (it is worth highlighting that each year more than €1bn flows into the State's coffers from alcohol taxes). More cross-border shopping, which is being propelled by the weakness of sterling, and booze cruises to France have become more common thanks to Ireland's outlier position on taxing drink. This results in a loss to the Exchequer, offsetting the fiscal benefits for the State of even higher taxes. Alas, last Friday's court ruling in Scotland will only add to the neo-puritanical push for minimum pricing in Ireland.  Sunday Independent 
