medicine
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    August 26 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/board-clamps-down-on-sale-of-medicine-over-web-26039129.html }
THE illegal supply of medicines over the internet is causing serious public health concerns, the annual report of the Irish  Medicines Board (IMB) warned yesterday. The watchdog body was forced to close one internet site supplying prescription-only medicines to the international market, as well as two other sites operating from here during the year. It warned the public and companies operating in this area that mail order medicines supply, including through the internet, is illegal in Ireland. It said internet prescriptions increase the avoidance of accountability by suppliers and also reduces the ability to trace unauthorised products being used here. "The increasing use of the internet in Irish homes will require continued focus on this area of interest of protecting public health." A review of internet sites yesterday showed diet drugs and anti-impotence tablets could be purchased freely. This illegal practice accounted for 18pc of all the enforcement orders from the IMB. But the board was also forced to clamp down on the sale of medicinal products in places such as petrol stations, health food shops and ethnic product retail outlets. The types of medicinal products being sold were mostly found to be prescription-only medicines in cream and tablet forms. The IMB, which has increased the number of enforcement officers it employs, said this had allowed it to investigate more cases of alleged breaches of the law, while completed enforcement cases rose to 13 a month compared to an average of five the previous year. It also targeted the illegal advertising of products which were either unauthorised or prescription-only medicines. The report said that slimming products continued to be a source of concern, rising from 10pc of cases investigated in 2000 to 13pc last year. They were probed because of their medicinal claims, and one was recalled because it contained a prescription-only medicine. Two counterfeit products on sale in shops were also the subject of enforcement orders. The numbers of reports of adverse reactions to drugs rose by 62.2pc to 2,282. 
