medicine
{ Mary O'Donnell 
    October 10 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/new-system-for-medicine-25892271.html }
The recent report of the working group on entry to undergraduate medical education in Ireland recommended, as many people know, revised selection procedures for entry to medical schools in Ireland. The proposed new approach to entry to medical education would include a mix of graduate and under-graduate entry streams and would take pressure off Leaving-Cert points only as a method of entry. Entry to undergraduate medicine would be based on two measures. Anyone opting for medicine who achieves 450 Leaving-Cert points will be eligible for consideration, with places allocated on the basis of performance on a separate aptitude test. The second proposed method of entry is through graduate entry, which would be open to all graduates of honours Bachelor-degree programmes, irrespective of academic discipline. The selection method would be based on performance on an appropriate aptitude test, on similar lines to that used for selection for the undergraduate programmes. It is expected that graduate entry will be facilitated by increased places in medical education. The group recommended that a quota of places would be reserved in each medical school for students from disadvantaged backgrounds, to be allocated on the basis of aptitude-test performance. At the time of the publication of the group's report just over six weeks ago, the then Minister for Education and Science, Noel Dempsey, welcomed its findings and said he was setting up an implementation group to meet the proposed time frame of 2006. While the implementation group has not yet been set up, its membership is under consideration. Meanwhile, students who are interested in studying medicine here are often sufficiently keen to apply through the British university system also. Although the normal closing date for the British Universities and Colleges Admissions Services (UCAS) is January 15, the closing date for applications for entry in 2005 to any course in Oxford or Cambridge is October 15, or next Thursday. This earlier closing date applies also for applications to medicine in any British university or other British medical school. Intending applicants to medicine in the UCAS system will see notices on the UCAS website of a number of additional tests for medical applicants to particular courses. These include: the BMAT or BioMedical Admissions Test, which is used for applicants to medicine in the University of Cambridge Medical School, Oxford University Medical School, Medicine in University College London, and to Veterinary Medicine in the University of Bristol and the Royal Veterinary College, London; The Medical School Admissions Test (MSAT), used for entry to medicine in Kings College, London, Queen Mary's, University of London, and the University of Warwick. Graduate applicants to medicine in St George's Medical School, the University of Nottingham, the Peninsula Medical School and the University of Wales, Swansea are required to sit the Graduate Medical School Admissions Test (GAMSAT). The UCAS website also gives notice of the National Admissions Test for Law (LNAT) for applicants to Law in the Universities of Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Durham, East Anglia, Nottingham, Oxford, and the University of London. The website gives exact codes of all courses. UCAS itself is not directly involved in any of these tests. As with CAO in this country, its function is to process applications for its member universities and other colleges, and it is these institutions who make decisions on selection mechanisms, such as these additional tests. British-college applicants have always been chosen on a mixture of different grounds, including exam results, school references, the personal statement of applicants, interviews in some cases, and now, in some cases, these additional tests as well. The centre responsible for administering the BMAT and the UCLES states that the best way to differentiate between highly qualified applicants is to use assessments that supply different additional data that can be used alongside mainstream examinations and interviews, "to deliver transparency and fairness". The BMAT consists of three different elements, a "thinking skills" section, a biomedical baseline-knowledge section, and an essay component. It is not always essential to sit the tests but a successful result can help an application. Applicants must pay a fee to take any of the tests. Career open days continue in agricultural colleges this week. Gurteen Agricultural College, Ballygarry, Roscrea, Co Tipperary, Wednesday, 10.30am-2pm and Teagasc Agricultural College, Ballyhaise, Co Cavan, on Thursday. 
