medicine
{  
    November 14 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/consumer-choice-hijacked-by-health-experts-26261703.html }
St John's Wort is a safe and inexpensive herbal treatment for depression, claims Patricia Redlich. So why is the Irish Medicines Board making it prescription-only? SOMETIME earlier this year, a company made an application to the Irish Medicines Board for a product licence. This is normal practice when a company decides it might like to manufacture a health-related product in this country. The product in question was to contain St John's Wort, or some of the main constituents of St John's Wort, a medicinal plant which has been used by herbalists for over 1,000 years. In support of the application, the company provided data which argued that the plant is effective in treating mild to moderate depression. On foot of this application, the Irish Medicines Board reviewed the literature on St John's Wort and decided that the herb, in all its forms, should become a prescription-only product. At the board's request, the Minister for Health signed revised regulations which will see St John's Wort available only through doctors from January 1, 2000. This decision is questionable, not just in common-sense terms, or in the context of the interests of the consumer, but in scientific terms. Sometime in the so-called Dark Ages, monks began to document what herbalists had learned as they carried out their task of minding the community's health. So they talked of plants which had medicinal qualities, described whether it was the leaf, root, or whole plant which was effective, and detailed the processing which had already become traditional, namely dried, juiced or liquid extract, producing a powder, drink or tincture. They also gave instructions on how much to take, how often and when. St John's Wort or Hypericum perforatum, to use the Latin, technical name is part of that tradition. These were the days before modern chemistry. The herbalists didn't know what the actual active ingredient in the plant was. For example, modern science believes that hypericin is the ingredient in St John's Wort which actively affects depression. Traditional herbalists didn't even think in those terms. They believed in the importance of the subtle interaction of all elements of a plant, the method of treatment, and the constitution and behaviour of the patient. For them it was a package deal. Pharmaceutical companies today look for a single active ingredient. They then extract it and manufacture it in concentrated form. In the context of St John's Wort, it is no longer then the plant itself, simply dried or boiled, but a particular constituent, isolated and basically made as potent as the manufacturer decides is prudent, effective or desirable. The bottom line is that this is then a different product. It is no longer the herbal remedy which is called Hypericum perforatum, and which has been known for a thousand years. It is a pharmaceutical remedy called hypericin. And apart from being quite different, it is also much more potent, which not only makes it potentially more effective but can also mean its side-effects are more pronounced. It is no longer the product used by herbalists working a life-time in their profession and claimed by them to be quite safe. There is, I believe, no scientific logic in banning St John's Wort herbal remedies on the basis of any data relating to a concentrated extract from the plant. The notion of extracting hypericin from St John's Wort and manufacturing it as a pill is, of course, not new. Such tablets already exist and are widely available. In Germany, for example, they are seven times more likely to be used for depression than Prozac. And a lot of research has been carried out into the efficacy of the plant extract. It is known, for example, to have certain side-effects such as photosensitivity in other words creating sensitivity to sunlight in patients who are taking it and certain gastrointestinal disturbances, fatigue and nervousness. Several things need to be said about these side-effects. First of all, the literature to date suggests they are not serious, and certainly not life-threatening. Certainly they are dose-related, and smaller doses help the patient avoid the problem. And compared to other medical remedies for depression, side-effects are almost insignificant. Anyway, such side-effects are commonplace in medical remedies and could be dealt with by simply signalling the possibility of such problems on the label. The Irish Medicines Board argued that, besides the above-stated possible side-effects, it was also concerned about St John's Wort because it is not sure how it works. In particular, the board argues that it is suspected of being similar to some other anti-depressants and acting as an MAOI, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor. Thoseare the drugs where patients have to avoid eating cheese, red wine, pickles, certain cough mixtures and other medication containing tryamine because of the danger of seriously raised blood-pressure. At best we can only argue here that scientists disagree. The latest research from the National Medicines Information Centre quotes 1999 data which argue, with a very definitive voice, that the initial suggestion that St John's Wort was a MAOI has now been shown to be untenable. There are, apparently, no documented cases of MAOI-type responses from anybody taking the remedy. On the basis of side-effects, therefore, the Irish Medicines Board's decision to ban over-the-counter sales doesn't hold much water either. For anyone who doubts that, think about paracetamol. Paracetamol, as everybody knows, causes irreversible liver damage when taken to excess. And while many, if not most, deaths associated with the drug are the result of deliberate overdosing, the real problem with paracetamol is what the trade calls its `low safety index'. That means there is not a great discrepancy between the recommended dose, or effective dose, and the amount which can cause potentially irreversible liver damage. You are told you can take, say, eight tablets. Double that dose and you're in serious trouble. Yet with paracetamol in so many products, it is relatively easy when suffering from a bad cold, for example, to come perilously close to the danger zone. Despite this, the Irish Medicines Board, I think quite correctly, has not made paracetamol-containing products prescription only. It has even resisted pressure, again quite correctly, to confine them to pharmacies only. When the consumer is in pain, he needs painkillers. So a balance was struck between protecting consumers' health and responding to their needs. You can buy paracetamol products in every petrol station. IN this context, it is inexplicable why the Irish Medicines Board should argue that the reality of the Irish medical scene when it comes to herbal remedies is not something they can concern themselves with. If herbal remedies become prescription-only, that means that Irish consumers will no longer be easily able to get them, for Irish doctors know nothing about herbalism. It is not part of their training or their tradition. When patients go to their doctors they will not be informed about herbal remedies, but given some pharmaceutical product. Even if they know what they want, it will not be a nice scene. Benign enlargement of the prostate is something most men suffer from when they reach a certain age. The plant saw palmetto is quick and effective and has no side-effects. Hands up how many doctors suggest to patients that they take it.  The Irish Medicines Board should think again. Irish consumers certainly want it to. 
