medicine
{ Aideen Sheehan  Consumer Correspondent 
    March 26 2011 04:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/consumers-risking-health-by-buying-medicines-on-web-26716966.html }
CONSUMERS are importing vast quantities of medicines bought illegally over the internet -- with weight-loss drugs the biggest seller. And would-be buyers were warned last night about the dangers of buying drugs on the web. The Irish Medicines Board (IMB) said that many of the drugs contain banned substances or the wrong amounts of active ingredients. The IMB said there had been a 66pc rise in illegal medicines seized last year, with 822,484 doses held compared to under 500,000 in 2009. Some of those tested contained too little or too much of the active ingredients while others contained the wrong active substance altogether. Some of the weight-loss products tested contained the drug sibutramine, which has been banned throughout Europe due to health-risk concerns -- in particular, that it can increase the risk of heart attack or stroke. IMB chief executive Pat O'Mahony said that the rise in weight-loss drugs being seized was of concern, and sibutramine was certainly a substance that should be avoided.  Illegal Drugs to treat erectile dysfunction, sedatives such as diazepam (valium) and steroids were also high on the list of illegally imported drugs, along with zopiclone, flurazepam, tadalafil and testosterone. Mr O'Mahony strongly urged consumers not to risk their health by using medicines purchased online as there were no guarantees of their safety, quality or effectiveness. "At best, people are wasting their money; but more seriously, at worst counterfeit and illegal medicines can pose a serious health risk. The supply of prescription-only medicines via the internet is illegal and no online pharmacy is authorised to operate in Ireland." Some consumers may have been buying drugs online to avoid the expense of GP visits, and in some cases it was for privacy reasons, an IMB spokesperson said. There had been no ill effects reported from the use of illegally imported medicines in Ireland last year, she said. The IMB is currently taking a number of prosecutions against illegal suppliers of medicine, with 3,936 enforcement investigations last year. They said they worked with the Revenue and the gardai to discover illegal shipments, and with Operation Pangea, a drive headed by Interpol to tackle illegal medicine sales. Irish Independent 
