{ By Charlie Lankston For Dailymail.com    Published:  15:37, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8042551/Melania-Trump-wears-3-000-Carolina-Herrera-dress-state-dinner-New-Delhi.html }
Melania Trump put on an incredibly elegant display as she arrived at a state dinner in New Delhi on Tuesday evening, stealing the spotlight in a $2,990 demure pink Carolina Herrera gown.   It was the second outfit by the designer worn by the 49-year-old first lady, who wore an $1,800 white, floral-embroidered frock from the same brand earlier in the day. However, while they were created by the same fashion house, the two looks could not have been more different; for her evening ensemble, Melania chose a floor-length, long-sleeved, high-neck gown, which which was embellished with a long ribbon tie that hung down the front and back of the dress.  Unusually for the first lady, she was pictured wearing flat shoes - a stark contrast to the high heels she is known to favor, and was seen wearing just a few hours before arriving with her husband, President Donald Trump, at the evening event, which took place at Rashtrapati Bhavan, the official residence of the President of India.  And while Melania chose a US-based brand for her outfit, she paid tribute to the country's local designers through her jewelry, wearing a pair of dazzling chandelier earrings from Jaipur-based jeweler, Amrapali Jewels.  First daughter Ivanka chose a much more traditional ensemble for the evening however, wearing a stunning floor-length white jacket over a white silk gown to the glittering event, where she was joined by her husband, and fellow senior White House advisor, Jared Kushner.  The long-sleeved jacket paid tribute to traditional Indian garb, and featured stunning gold embroidery on both sleeves, as well as beautiful red floral stitching across the rest of the design.   Ivanka wore her blonde hair down around her shoulders, while Melania opted for an updo, which allowed her to show off her earrings to full effect as she greeted the other guests at the event.   Melania and Donald arrived at the event ahead of Ivanka and Jared, and they were welcomed into the evening's dinner by the sound of trumpets, while being accompanied by Indian President Ram Nath Kovind and his wife Savita Kovind, who stood alongside the first couple as the US national anthem was played in honor of the evening's esteemed guests. Both Presidents and their wives then made their way over to greet the country's Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, whom the Trumps have spent much of their trip with, before walking down the line of guests and shaking their hands - including Ivanka and Jared.  One attendee even coerced President Trump into snapping a selfie.  However the first family did not have the luxury of lingering at the dinner for hours on end; not long after arriving at the state event, they were pictured boarding Air Force One at Palam Air Force Airport, ready to begin their lengthy flight back to Washington, D.C.  The foursome were all still wearing their state dinner outfits when they boarded the presidential plane, however they presumably planned to change mid-flight, as both Melania and Ivanka have been known to do on numerous occasions.  President Trump and his wife made sure to flash a final wave at the photographers before making their way inside the plane - however Ivanka and Jared almost managed to avoid the cameras entirely after boarding via the stairs at the very back of the aircraft.  Both Ivanka and Melania have been putting on an incredibly stylish show since touching down in India on Monday.  On Tuesday, hours before arriving at the state dinner, the two women matched in white as they toured New Delhi, having spent much of Monday in Agra. Melania donned a $1,807 pretty floral print white gown by Caroline Herrera, which she cinched in at the waist with a vibrant red belt; the first lady completed her look with a pair of white textured leather stilettos. Mother-of-one Melania opted for her signature smokey eye makeup with rose-colored lipstick, and wore her ombré locks in loose waves around her shoulders. Meanwhile White House senior advisor Ivanka power dressed in a chic traditional handwoven salwar kameez by New York-based Indian designer Anita Dongre - whose clothing has previously been worn by the Duchess of Cambridge.  President Trump's daughter, 38, who was joined by her husband, fellow senior advisor Jared Kushner, also went for white, widely accepted as the color of peace and purity in the country. Ivanka wore her blonde locks sleek and straight and completed her look with £545 white kitten heel Manolo Blahnik mules. She added a touch of glamour with an elaborate pair of gold bejeweled Bollywood-style chandelier earrings.  On the first couple's arrival in India yesterday, Melania also opted to wear white, stepping off Air Force One in a striking pants ensemble with a green sash tied around her waist.  Earlier today she and her husband received a lavish welcome at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Presidential Palace. The couple paid tribute to famous Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi, laying a wreath at the spot of his cremation and tossing flower respects onto the memorial.  Melania joined the president in removing her shoes for the occasion. They laid a wreath at the black marble platform that marked the spot where the independence leader was cremated after his assassination. They also planted a tree in one of the gardens surrounding the memorial. The First Lady received a traditional red tilaka forehead dot when she arrived at a New Delhi school on Tuesday to observe a happiness class as part of her Be Best campaign.  Students gave the first lady flowers and decorated her forehead with the tilaka, which is made of a fragrant paste, such as of sandalwood or vermilion, and given as a welcome and expression of honor to guests when they arrive. Melania thanked the students and the people of India for their warm welcome. 'This is my first visit to India and I cannot express how delightful it is. The people here are so welcoming and so kind. The President and I are grateful to be guests in your beautiful country and to receive such a warm reception,' she said.  Melania attended happiness classes at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School, an educational program implemented by the Delhi government for students first through eight grades.  'It is very inspiring to me that students here begin each day participating in mindfulness,' she said. 'I cannot think of a better way for all of us to start our day.'  Later in the day the Trumps will visit staff at the US embassy before attending a state dinner in the evening.  Trump said 'tremendous advancements' were made in trade talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but no deal was struck to end the war between the two nations. Both leaders were effulgent in their praise for one another but underneath the glowing words were the stark reality that Modi's lavish welcome for the president didn't result in a deal. Yesterday the Trumps paid a visit to the Taj Mahal in Agra and took the opportunity to pose in front of the world's most famous monument to love. Ivanka, dressed in a pale blue and red floral gown, and Jared sat on the famous 'Diana' bench where the then-Princess of Wales took an iconic image during her 1992 visit.  
