trump
{ By Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com    Published:  20:13, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039111/Bernie-Sanders-angers-Israeli-supporters-accusing-AIPAC-supporting-bigotry.html }
Bernie Sanders issued harsh criticism to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee Sunday, claiming the pro-Israel group provides an outlet for bigotry and anti-Palestinian sentiments. The Jewish senator announced that he would not be attending AIPAC's conference on March 1-2 in Washington, D.C., where several lawmakers will show up and speak, including Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. 'The Israeli people have the right to live in peace and security. So do the Palestinian people,' the Vermont senator wrote on Twitter. 'I remain concerned about the platform AIPAC provides for leaders who express bigotry and oppose basic Palestinian rights. For that reason I will not attend their conference.' 'As president, I will support the rights of both Israelis and Palestinians and do everything possible to bring peace and security to the region,' he posted in a second tweet. Some of Sanders' more well-known surrogates including Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib, who is Palestinian-American, and Ilhan Omar – members of the so-called 'squad' of progressive representatives. Donald Trump and some of his allies have attacked Ocasio-Cortez, Tlaib and Omar for touting anti-Semitic tropes. Sanders has also, in the past, slammed AIPAC and has claimed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of the Trump administration's biggest allies, is a 'right-wing politician' who runs a 'racist' government. AIPAC issued a statement Sunday night in response to Sanders' tweets, claiming the Democratic socialist presidential candidate is 'shameful' and adding that he never attended their conference. 'By engaging in such an odious attack on this mainstream, bipartisan American political event, Senator Sanders is insulting his very own colleagues and millions of Americans who stand with Israel,' the statement read. 'Truly shameful.' The committee then exhibited its inclusion by adding that the guests and speakers at its conference have ranged among people of all different races, religions, ages, sexual orientations and political parties. Currently, Sanders is the frontrunner candidate in the Democratic primary race. He is boasting the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa as a win, repeating the he won the 'popular vote' over Pete Buttigieg, who earned the most amount of delegates. The senator came in first with the most per cent in New Hampshire and Nevada and is hoping to continue that momentum as South Carolina votes in its primary election on Saturday.  
