trump
{ By Megan Sheets For Dailymail.com    Published:  15:30, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037995/Miracle-Ice-hockey-team-defend-decision-appear-stage-Trump-rally.html }
The Miracle on Ice 1980 Olympic hockey team have defended their decision to appear on stage at a rally for President Donald Trump amid fierce social media backlash.       Members of the team - which famously upset the Soviet Union en route to a gold medal at the Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, New York - celebrated the 40th anniversary of their improbable victory in Las Vegas over the weekend.     Fourteen of the players attended a rally for Trump on Friday, the night before the Nevada Democratic caucus, each wearing red caps with the president's 'Keep America Great' campaign slogan as they were paraded across the stage.   Fans of the team that unified the nation four decades ago blasted the players over their show of support for such a divisive president.     The backlash was targeted at a tweet posted by the team's official Twitter account, @1980MiracleTeam, with photos of the players on stage.  The caption read: 'The name on the front is more important than the name on the back.'  'Good job guys - you turned a nonpartisan feel good memory into a dumpster fire,' one fan wrote in response.  'These once honorable & admirable Americans have debased not only themselves, but also that which they purported to stand for,' another added. 'They bring SHAME to themselves and diminish their own actions decades ago.' 'I cannot express my disappointment strongly enough. For 40 years you have brought me joy, tonight deep sadness,' another fan carped. Journalist Soledad O'Brien wrote: 'Ugh...so disappointed by the @1980MiracleTeam. I loved watching that game as a kid with my dad. Loved watching the movie with my kids. To see them on a stage, in maga hats - kinda crushing I have to say.'     The backlash prompted @1980MiracleTeam to post a follow up tweet defending the appearance. 'To us, this is not about politics or choosing sides,' the tweet read. 'This is about proudly representing the United States of America.  'Whether your beliefs are Democratic, Republican or Independent, etc. we support that and are proud to represent the USA.' But many Twitter users weren't convinced that the appearance was motivated by patriotism rather than politics.  'If it's not about politics or choosing sides, why are you wearing MAGA hats? So disappointing,' one fan asked.  'They made it about politics by showing up at a campaign rally. Don't like the blow back, how about thinking before doing something stupid. All respect is now gone,' another added.  'You're wearing political campaign hats. And the red MAGA hat is considered a symbol of racism and division by a huge portion of the country. So, it's both "political" and "choosing sides,"' another fan said.   The players received a warm welcome from thousands of Trump supporters crowded into Las Vegas Convention Center on Friday.  'We have some very special people and we celebrate one of the greatest moments in the history of sports. Some people say it was the single greatest moment in the history of sports. It was called: The Miracle on Ice,' Trump lauded before naming the team members and bringing them all on stage.  The team's victory over the Soviet Union at the height of the Cold War in 1980 is heralded as one of the top moments in US sports history.  The name came is largely credited to sportscaster Al Michaels, who exclaimed in the final seconds of the match: 'Do you believe in miracles? Yes!'  The team went on to beat Finland in the gold medal game.   'Do you remember that? That was when the Russians had a team assembled that was, probably – they say – maybe the greatest team ever assembled,' Trump said.  The unveiling - with captain Mike Eruzione at center stage - had not been announced beforehand.    Players made another public appearance on Saturday night, dropping the ceremonial puck at the Vegas Golden Knights vs Florida Panthers game.  They left their KAG hats at home for that event.    
