trump
{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  14:54, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-8038255/Trumps-join-long-line-stars-pose-Taj-Mahal.html }
President Trump and the First Lady have embarked on a two-day visit to India amid a trade war with the United States and Delhi. This included a visit to the Taj Mahal on Monday, meaning the couple joined a long line of royals, politicians and celebrities to have posed in front of the world's greatest monument to love. Scroll through to see the other famous and influential people who have been pictured in front of the iconic building...  President Trump called the Taj Mahal 'incredible' while Melania Trump said it was 'beautiful'. Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner posed after President Donald Trump and Melania Trump stood before the famous monument. Jeff Bezos and girlfriend Lauren Sanchez visited the Taj Mahal in January 2020. Superstar Tom Cruise visited the site back in 2011, while promoting the fourth instalment of his blockbuster Mission: Impossible series, Ghost Protocol.  An iconic photo of Princess Diana was taken in 1992 when she visited the Taj Mahal alone. The bench on which Diana is sitting is now named after her and the 1992 visit, which happened shortly before the breakup of her marriage. The resulting photo of her sitting alone, looking forlorn during a stop at the monument to love, was interpreted as an insight to the state of her marriage to Charles, Princes of Wales, and her solitude within the royal family. Prince William and Kate, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, visited the Taj and sat on the same bench in April 2016. Hollywood star Will Smith visited the Taj Mahal in 2018.  Jackie Kennedy, during her successful tour to India in March 1962, posed for photographers in a green and white patterned dress. She was accompanied on her trip by her sister Lee Radziwill.  Action star and former Governor of California Arnold Schwarzenegger paid a visit to the iconic monument back in 2012.  Then-First Lady Hillary Clinton and Chelsea, 15, visited the Taj Mahal in 1995. The two were on a 12-day tour of South Asia in March of 1995. 'When I was little, this was sort of the embodiment of the fairy-tale palace for me. I would see pictures of it and would dream I was a princess or whatever. Now that I'm here, it's spectacular,' the then-15-year-old Chelsea Clinton told reporters at the time. Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro posed for a photograph at the Taj Mahal in January, 2020. French President Emmanuel Macron and his wife Brigitte visited the site back in 2018.  The Obamas never made it to the Taj Mahal — they were scheduled to, but their visit was axed after Obama cut his India trip short so he could stop in Saudi Arabia on his way back home to pay tribute to King Abdullah, who had passed away. Instead, then-President Obama and Michelle Obama got a tour of the less-known but still stunning Humayun's tomb, seen here.   Oprah Winfrey visited the Taj Mahal in January 2012 for her new talk show. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau and their children pose for photographs during their 2018 visit. William and Kate during their visit; William said the trip was to create new memories. First Lady Jackie Kennedy and sister Lee Radziwill during their 1962 visit. Built by a Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in 1643, the Taj Mahal was a tomb for his wife Mumtaz Mahal. He built it for her after she died giving birth to their 14th child. He is also buried there. It has 25,000 daily visitors, rising to 80,000 during the peak tourist season. The tomb is the center piece of a 42-acre complex, which includes a mosque and a guest house, and is set in formal gardens bounded on three sides by a crenelated wall. 
