trump
{ By Associated Press   Published:  15:03, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8042771/Weinstein-accuser-Haleyi-grateful-heard-believed.html }
NEW YORK (AP) - A hospitalized Harvey Weinstein was "upbeat" and "energized" about appealing his sexual assault and rape conviction, one of his lawyers said Tuesday as one of Weinstein's accusers said the verdict made her feel grateful to be "heard and believed." Weinstein remained in a jail unit at Bellevue Hospital, where he was taken after the verdict Monday to be checked out for heart palpitations and high blood pressure. Attorney Arthur Aidala on Tuesday called the hospitalization "a precautionary measure to take him here and make sure his vitals and everything were OK" and said it wasn't clear how long Weinstein would be at Bellevue. After Monday's verdict, he had been destined for jail to await sentencing, set for March 11. In the meantime, Weinstein greeted his lawyer, unhandcuffed, in a large hospital room with jail officers outside and was looking forward to visitors, Aidala said. "He압 in pretty good spirits. He압 energized," the attorney told reporters. FILE - In this Jan. 27, 2020 file photo, Mimi Haleyi, right, arrives to testify in Harvey Weinstein's trial on charges of rape and sexual assault in New York. Haleyi, one of the women Harvey Weinstein was convicted of sexually assaulting, said Tuesday, Feb. 25, that the verdict made her feel grateful to be "heard and believed." Weinstein faces a possible sentence of five to 29 years after a Manhattan jury convicted him of sexually assaulting Haleyi and raping an aspiring actress in 2013. He was acquitted of first-degree rape and two counts of predatory sexual assault. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan) He said the 67-year-old former Hollywood studio boss was insisting on his innocence and "somewhat flabbergasted by the verdict," but determined to fight on. "There is a portion of him where he압 just scratching his head and he doesn앖 know how this happened, but he압 cautiously optimistic" about prevailing on appeal, Aidala said. His remarks came after Mimi Haleyi, a former production assistant who accused Weinstein of forcing oral sex on her in 2006, called the verdict "a huge relief." "I just think that were being educated about the reality of sexual assault and sexual assault victims," Haleyi said on "CBS This Morning." "It압 not always just a stranger. It압 very often somebody that the person knows, and with that comes an entire other layer of processing," she said. "Whatever the verdict had been, it wouldn앖 have changed what happened to me, but obviously it was terrifying to think that I wouldn앖 be believed," she added later on MSNBC. Weinstein faces a possible sentence of five to 29 years after a Manhattan jury convicted him of sexually assaulting Haleyi and raping an aspiring actress in 2013. He was acquitted of first-degree rape and two counts of predatory sexual assault. Weinstein has maintained that any sex between him and his accusers was consensual. Asked about Weinstein on Tuesday, President Donald Trump called the disgraced producer's conviction a "great victory" for women that "sends a very strong message." "He was a person I didn't like," Trump told reporters during a news conference in India. "The people that liked him were the Democrats. Michelle Obama loved him. Loved him. Hillary Clinton loved him." Trump himself stands accused of sexual misconduct, including a rape allegation, by more than a dozen women when he was a private citizen. He has denied the allegations and has not been charged in any of the alleged sexual assaults. The Associated Press does not typically identify people who say they are victims of sex crimes unless they grant permission, as Haleyi did. FILE - In this Oct. 24, 2017, file photo, Mimi Haleyi appears at a news conference in New York. Haleyi is expected to appear on the witness stand Monday, Jan. 27, 2020, at Weinstein's New York City trial. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig, File) Harvey Weinstein arrives at a Manhattan courthouse for his rape trial, Monday, Feb. 24, 2020, in New York. A jury convicted the Hollywood mogul of rape and sexual assault. The jury found him not guilty of the most serious charge, predatory sexual assault, which could have resulted in a life sentence.(AP Photo/John Minchillo) 
