{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter In New Delhi For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:25, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8038237/Ivanka-Trump-Jared-Kushner-snuggle-Taj-Mahal.html }
Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner posed in front of the Taj Mahal, the world's most famous monument to love on Monday, during their visit to India with the president and first lady. Jared even stepped aside to let Ivanka get some solo shots in front of the marble white tomb, which the president's party visited at sunset.  Then Ivanka stepped aside to take a photo of newly-wed White House adviser Stephen Miller, who posed solo in front of the monument. His wife, Katie Miller, is spokesperson for Vice President Mike Pence and not believed to be on the trip. The first daughter also snapped a pic for National Security Adviser Robert O'Brien.  The couple - the daughter and son-in-law of President Trump - posed after President Donald Trump and Melania Trump stood before the famous monument. 'The grandeur and beauty of the Taj Mahal is awe inspiring!,' Ivanka wrote on Twitter including a photo of the monument along with a pic of her posing alone.  After the first couple went to tour the tomb, the White House aides traveling with them posed for their own pictures.  Jared and Ivanka, along with advisers Dan Scavino and Stephen Miller posed with U.S. ambassador to India Ken Juster on the famous 'Diana' bench, where the then-Princess of Wales posed during her 1992 visit in an image that became iconic. Ivanka Trump made a solo trip to India in 2017 as part of her work on women's economic issues. She met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Global Entrepreneurship Summit. Some of the women she met at that time were at President Trump's and Modi's event at the Sardar Patel Stadium, the world's largest cricket stadium. Ivanka was spotted taking selfies with them while waiting for the two leaders to begin their speeches. Modi gave the first daughter a kiss on the cheek when she arrived in India aboard Air Force One.  The Trump party spent the first part of their visit in Modi's home state of Ahmedabad and then capped off their day in Agra at the Taj Mahal.  Donald and Melania Trump held hands as they posed for photographers and spent a few minutes staring at the white marble tomb as the sun started to set.   'It’s incredible, truly incredible,' Trump said. 'Really incredible, an incredible place.' Melania also weighed in: 'Lovely, beautiful,' she said.  The couple signed the guest book and walked through as part of their tour of the tomb, built by a 16th century emperor for his deceased wife. One thing appeared to be missing from the visit: monkeys.  There was no sign of the nearly 1,000 rhesus monkeys who live around the tomb and who sparked fears of a diplomatic incident should they act out. India put extra 'monkey police' - guards with sling shots - on duty to keep away the animals Built by a Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in 1643, the Taj Mahal is a tomb for his wife Mumtaz MahalHe built it for his favorite wife after she died giving birth to their 14th child. He is also buried there.  President Trump could have a special interest in the Taj. During his building days in the 1980s, he built the Trump Taj Mahal hotel and casino in Atlantic City. It opened in 1990 and cost nearly $1 billion to construct.  It came to closing in 2014 as its parent company went through bankruptcy, but ultimately remained open under the new ownership. It was sold again in October 2016 to the Hard Rock Cafe and reopened under that name. The Trumps were given a framed photo of themselves in front of the Taj Mahal when they returned to Air Force One to leave Agra for New Delhi, where they will spend the night.   
