trump
{ By Ellie May Donohoe For Mailonline   Published:  15:03, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8042493/Brad-Pitt-attempts-incognito-hat-shades-hides-red-umbrella.html }
He donned a variety of dapper suits last month for his many red carpet appearances during awards season.   But Brad Pitt attempted to go incognito when he stepped out of the airport in Paris on Tuesday beneath with a large red umbrella.  The 52-year-old appeared fresh faced after his flight and donned a casual ensemble of blue jeans and a camel coloured jumper.  The hunk wore a brown hat and shades as he made his exit while he carried his belongings in a large beige bag. The Once Upon A Time in Hollywood star wore headphones around his neck and wore a black shirt over the top.  Brad made his way to the awaiting car while airport staff protected him from the elements. The star was no doubt ready for his trip to Paris, where Fashion Week has just begun.  Last week the Hollywood star faced criticism from Donald Trump.  While attending a rally at the Broadmoor World Arena in Colorado, the President said of the actor: 'I was never a big fan of his. 'He got up, said a little wise guy thing. He’s a little wise guy.' Trump was obviously retaliating to Brad's Best Supporting Actor acceptance speech at The Oscars earlier this month in which he used his platform to complain about the impeachment trial. While collecting the award for his role in Once Upon A Time in Hollywood, that actor complained that former national security adviser John Bolton did not testify at President Trump's impeachment trial. He said: 'They told me I only had 45 seconds up here, which is 45 seconds more than the Senate gave John Bolton this week. 'I'm thinking maybe Quentin (Tarantino) does a movie about it and in the end the adults do the right thing,' he said.  It was Brad's first ever Oscar for acting as he had previously won a Best Picture award as a producer for 12 Years A Slave in 2013. He beat out heavy competition for the honour, including Tom Hanks (A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood), Anthony Hopkins (The Two Popes), Al Pacino (The Irishman), and Joe Pesci (The Irishman). The end of his speech featured a dedication to his six children, Maddox, 18, Pax, 16, Zahara, 15, Shiloh, 13, Vivienne, 11, and Knox, 11, whom he with ex-wife Angelina Jolie: 'This is for my kids who color everything I do. I adore you.' Once Upon A Time In Hollywood tells the story of TV star Rick Dalton (Leonardo) and his longtime stunt double Cliff Booth (Brad), who make their way around an industry they hardly recognize anymore.   
