{ By Chris Dyer For Dailymail.com   Published:  13:02, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037755/Poll-reveals-62-New-York-voters-believe-Donald-Trump-win-second-term-White-House.html }
A majority of voters in New York believe President Trump will be re-elected and win a second term in the White House, a new poll revealed. Sixty-two per cent of registered voters in New York predict Trump will get to be president for four more years, while only 29 per cent said they think he will lose the election in November, the Siena College survey found. Around 81 per cent of Republicans and 73 per cent of independents believe Trump will succeed in being re-elected. Even as many as 48 per cent of Democrats predict Trump will still be in the White House after January next year. In the survey, 47 per cent believed Trump will be defeated by the eventual Democratic nominee compared to 42 per cent who think he will win a second term.  However, when Trump was matched against a Democrat, New Yorkers favored electing a new president. Seventy-two per cent of the Republicans surveyed said they had a favorable view of Trump, while the poll found that any of the top Democratic candidates would beat the president in his home state. Bernie Sanders and former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg were placed ahead of former Vice President Joe Biden as favored presidential candidates to defeat Trump. When asked which Democrat had the best chance to become president, 33 per cent said Bloomberg, 22 per cent Sanders and 16 per cent said Biden.  Of the Democrats surveyed, 25 per cent backed Sanders and 21 per cent supported Bloomberg. Former South Bend mayor, Pete Buttigieg, and Joe Biden would win New York by 19 in a race against Trump. While Sanders would defeat Trump by 18 points and other Democrats such as Amy Klobuchar would win by 16 points and Elizabeth Warren by 14 points.  Steve Greenberg Siena poll spokesman said: 'Bloomberg leads in New York City with Sanders second, while Sanders leads upstate and in the downstate suburbs, where Bloomberg finishes third in both.  'Bernie is trouncing with younger voters and Mike has a commanding lead with older voters. Men side with Bernie, while women lean toward Mike. Sanders has the best chance according to younger voters, while Bloomberg is more favorable to older voters, the poll found. Greenberg added: 'Which Democrat has the best chance to win in November? Right now, one-third of Democrats say Bloomberg, followed by Sanders and Biden.  'Not surprisingly, Bloomberg has the best chance according to older voters, with whom he scores higher on favorability and Sanders has the best chance according to younger voters, who overwhelmingly view him favorably.  'This is more of a snapshot of Democrats than pre-election poll since it is likely that South Carolina and Super Tuesday will significantly reduce the size of the field, and this poll did not look at likely primary voters.'  Sanders scored a resounding victory on Saturday in the Nevada presidential caucuses to move into the position of frontrunner in the race to take on Trump.  
