{ By Luke Andrews For Mailonline   Published:  10:06, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037265/Mike-Bloomberg-delays-CNN-town-hall-debate-two-days-make-improvements.html }
Mike Bloomberg has delayed his CNN town hall by two days to make improvements after his shambolic first performance against fellow Democratic candidates was widely criticized. The billionaire was attacked by multiple candidates, including senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts who questioned his use of non-disclosure agreements to resolve claims of sexual harassment and misconduct. Sitting president Donald Trump also weighed in, branding his performance 'the worst in the history of debates'.  The former New York mayor has now shifted his one hour question-and-answer session with voters to Wednesday - so that he can spend more time preparing for the next Democratic debate tomorrow in South Carolina. Despite the schedule change, his campaign team said he viewed the broadcast as 'crucial' and said 'the country can't afford to let Bernie Sanders skate by another debate without a focus on his extreme record'. No other candidates have asked for their appearance to be rescheduled. Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders will appear at 9pm ET, followed by former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg at 10pm ET, and businessman Tom Steyer at 11pm ET. On Wednesday Bloomberg will now appear first at 7pm ET, followed by former Vice President Joe Biden at 8pm ET, Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar at 9pm ET and Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren at 10pm ET. The audience they face will be composed of Democrat voters, who will get to question each candidate. Bloomberg's performance at the last debate was slammed by Democratic and Republican pundits alike. Senator Warren began her debate by saying: 'I'd like to talk about who we're running against: A billionaire who calls women 'fat broads' and 'horse-faced lesbians'. And no, I'm not talking bout Donald Trump. I'm talking about mayor Bloomberg. 'Democrats are not going to win if we have a nominee who has a history of hiding his tax returns, of harassing women, and of supporting racist policies like redlining and stop and frisk'. Sitting president Donald Trump branded it the 'worst in the history of debates'. 'He was stumbling, bumbling and grossly incompetent,' said the president. 'If this doesn't knock him out of the race, nothing will. Not so easy to do what I did!'  Bloomberg has sunk $464million into his presidential campaign, prompting criticism and questions on whether he can buy his way to the White House. Donald Trump's campaign in 2016 spent more than four times less at $94million. Bloomberg will join his rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination again on Tuesday in South Carolina.  He did not compete in the first four voting states but is on ballots in the slew of states that vote March 3.  The billionaire businessman is trying to stop Sanders’ from opening a substantial delegate lead that day. 
