trump
{ By Chloe Morgan For Mailonline and Charlie Lankston For Dailymail.com    Published:  09:03, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8037115/Melania-Ivanka-Trump-look-typically-stylish-arrive-two-day-visit-India.html }
Melania Trump cut a typically stylish figure as she disembarked from Air Force One at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport in Ahmedabad on Monday. The First Lady, 49, who arrived with husband Donald Trump, looked stylish in a white custom Atelier Caito for Herve Pierre jumpsuit, which was completed with a green silk sash around her waist.   They were greeted on the runway by first daughter and White House senior adviser Ivanka Trump, 38, who opted for a $1,690 short-sleeved pale blue Proenza Schouler dress, which featured  a red floral pattern and pussycat bow detail.   It is not the first time that Ivanka has worn the ensemble; she was also pictured wearing the dress during her South American tour in September of last year.  However, while on that occasion, the mother-of-three had just had her blonde hair cut into a bob, in India, Ivanka showed off much longer locks, which she wore loose around her shoulders in a sleek, straight style.  She then added a touch of glam to her outfit with a pair of dazzling sapphire and diamond earrings.  Ivanka completed her look with bronze-toned makeup, a layer of pink lipstick, lashings of mascara and a smokey eye.  Before her arrival in India, Ivanka looked ahead to her trip on Instagram, recalling her last visit to the country two years ago, when she attended the Global Entrepreneurial Summit in Hyderabad, alongside the country's Prime Minister.  'Two years after joining @narendramodi at the Global Entrepreneurial Summit in Hyderabad, I am honored to return to India with @POTUS and @FLOTUS to celebrate that the grand friendship between the world’s two largest democracies has never been stronger!'  Meanwhile, Melania, who similarly wore her hair loose, styled in her signature loose waves, opted for heavy eye makeup and a nude lip color.  And while her step-daughter Ivanka wore an old favorite for their first day in India, Melania's outfit was custom-made for the occasion by two of her favorite designers, Nicolas Caito and Herve Pierre, whose pieces she has worn on a number of occasions in the past.  However, although Melania certainly looked like she was embracing local style with the green silk sash around her waist, it is likely that her ensemble was made in New York City, where the designers' studio is based.  Melania certainly looked in high spirits as she joined President Trump for a two-day visit, where the pair received a warm welcome from thousands of well-wishers who lined the streets in Ahmedabad.  Indian officials rolled out the red carpet for the Trumps and have dubbed the visit as 'two dynamic personalities, one momentous occasion.'  India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on hand to greet the first couple as they stepped off Air Force One as were an array of dancers in colorful native costumes, who gave a festive start to the visit.   They danced alongside the red carpet amid live music as the prime minister led the Trumps to their car.   Meanwhile, Ivanka and her husband, fellow White House adviser Jared Kushner, watched the welcome festivities from the sidelines, before the foursome made their way from the airport to begin the day's activities.   Modi and the Trumps first stopped at the home of Mahatma Gandhi, where the president tried his hand at a loom - the same type used by the revered Indian leader. They then took a tour of the small complex made of a series of small houses where Modi explained to them how to use a charkha, a traditional spinning wheel used by Gandhi. President Trump could be seen holding a string while checking the charkha, as Melania and India's Prime Minister looked on.  The group then capped off their first day in India with a trip to the Taj Mahal, where they all took turns posing in front of the iconic palace, with Donald and Melania posing for numerous portraits, before stepping aside to give Ivanka and Jared their turn in front of the cameras.   
