{ By Lauren Fruen For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  05:44, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036691/Marianne-Williamson-endorses-Bernie-Sanders-Democratic-presidential-candidate.html }
Marianne Williamson has endorsed Bernie Sanders as the Democratic presidential candidate in a surprise appearance at his Austin rally on Sunday.  The Texan told the crowds: 'It's time for us to take a stand with Bernie. It's our turn now.' Sanders then thanked Williamson for her support as he took the stage.  She later posted a message of her support for the Democratic frontrunner, writing: 'I am honored to endorse him.'    Spiritual guru Williamson had a much-Googled run for the White House, but never became a serious contender. She dropped out of the 2020 presidential race last month. She came from the self-help world, penning best-sellers including 'A Return to Love: Reflections on the Principles of A Course in Miracles,' of which Oprah Winfrey was a big fan. On the campaign trail and on the debate stage, she talked about big picture ideas, like paying reparations for slavery, creating a Department of Peace and getting rid of corporate political donations entirely. Williamson wrote on Twitter Sunday: 'What happened in Nevada on Saturday was extraordinary, and the energy is unquestionably with Bernie. 'A 40 yr-old trend of capitalism without conscience—corporate elites and their errand boys in government—have created the inevitable blowback in the form of a political revolution. 'That revolution is one that Bernie Sanders now leads, and I want to do everything I can to further its success. I am honored to endorse him.'  She had earlier told the crowds: 'He won Iowa. He won New Hampshire. He won Nevada. Bernie Sanders has been taking a stand for a very long time.   'We're here and we're with Bernie.'   Self proclaimed Democratic socialist Sanders won a decisive victory Saturday in the Nevada caucuses, solidifying his frontrunner status in the race to choose the Democratic nominee who faces President Donald Trump in November's election. The 78-year-old senator from Vermont was leading with about 46 percent, followed by former vice president Joe Biden at 19 percent.  Sanders celebrated the win in Texas, a top Super Tuesday prize and a state that Democrats see trending their way thanks to a growing Hispanic population and opposition to Trump in the suburbs. Sounding like a candidate who had already secured the nomination, Sanders told thousands of cheering supporters who filled a basketball arena on the campus of the University of Houston that he would win in the state both next month and next fall.  'If working people and young people of this city, black and white and Latino, gay or straight, if our people stand together, come out to vote, we're going to win here in Texas,' he said. Sanders was announcing a plan to provide universal, government-funded child care until age three and universal pre-kindergarten programs after that. In an interview with '60 Minutes' that aired Sunday night, he said he'd pay for it using part of the proceeds from his previously announced wealth tax, which would be levied annually on fortunes worth more than $32 million.   Sanders' commanding Nevada caucus victory made him a top target for his Democratic rivals and a growing source of anxiety for establishment Democrats worried that the nomination of an avowed democratic socialist could cost the party in November. The win solidified Sanders' front-runner status as the race turned to Saturday's presidential primary in South Carolina.  The Vermont senator was trounced in the state by more than 40 percentage points in 2016, but he is hoping that his success in diverse Nevada will prove to black voters in South Carolina that his campaign has broad appeal. Any momentum that Sanders gains in South Carolina could be devastating to former Vice President Joe Biden, who is looking to the state for a commanding victory that can keep his candidacy alive through Super Tuesday.  The March 3 contests will unfold in 14 states and award one-third of the delegates needed for the Democratic nomination. With time running short, moderate Democrats grew increasingly nervous Sunday that Sanders' call for a political 'revolution' would drive voters away from the party, both in the matchup against President Donald Trump and in House and Senate races. 'I think it would be a real burden for us in these states or congressional districts that we have to do well in,' South Carolina Rep. Jim Clyburn, the House majority whip and the top-ranking black Democrat in Congress, said Sunday on ABC's 'This Week.'    Democrats will debate on Tuesday in Charleston, South Carolina.    
