trump
{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:21, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036671/The-Daily-host-Trevor-Noah-thinks-President-Trump-make-comedians-jobs-harder.html }
Trevor Noah opened up about President Trump on Ellen Monday, revealing he thinks Trump could make comedians' jobs harder. The 36-year-old comedian was asked by Ellen if he thinks Trump being President is, 'a good thing for comedy,' which he disagreed with. 'I would never think that Trump is good for us. If anything, I wish he would make us work a little bit harder, because now, as a comedian, I'm like, "He did this."' 'People are like, "That's crazy!" And I'm like, "Yeah, and then he did this." I'm not doing much, I'm' just showing you what he did,' Noah added. Noah also added that he has interviewed 'almost' all of the Democratic Presidential nominees on The Daily Show. 'Almost all 125 of them, yes,' Noah joked. 'We've been lucky. I think the only people we haven't had on the show is Elizabeth Warren and Joe Biden, oh, and now Mike Bloomberg because now he's in the race, but everyone else has come to The Daily Show and we've had fun talking to all of the Democratic candidates.'  Ellen added that, 'it's a sad scary place right now, but somehow you make it really funny,' before asking if he gets depressed going to work and how he makes it funny. 'When processing politics, the one thing we need to do, in my opinion, is remember there was a time before and there will always be a time after,' Noah added. He added that people say to 'live in the present, but if you're not careful you only live in the present and you act as if the present will be forever, and that is not the case.' Noah said what he is trying to do is create content that, 'educates people, informs people and gets us to a place where we understand each other a little bit more.' The talk show host shared an example of what he's talking about by sharing a story of a man he met on his flight to Los Angeles. 'One of the best compliments I ever got, no joke, was on the flight coming out here to LA. There was a guy on the plane and he came up to me and said, 'Hey my son said I shouldn't bother you but I wanted to let you know that I'm a big conservative guy and I don't agree with a lot of the things you say but you're a funny guy."' '"You're a cool guy and you're funny and I like that about you. All right my son said you'd hate me, but thank you very much,"' Noah added about the encounter. He went on and said he shook the man's hand and thanked him, 'for seeing me as a human being.' Noah added that while him and this man don't see eye to eye on many things, 'but we still agree that we're human beings, and I think if we can find that place, we can go from there,' with Ellen saying, 'We need to get back to that right now.'    
