trump
{ By Lauren Fruen For Dailymail.com and Reuters   Published:  00:33, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036225/U-S-judge-rejects-Roger-Stones-request-kicked-case.html }
A federal judge on Sunday denied a request by Roger Stone's lawyers that she be removed from the case in which she last week sentenced the long-time adviser to President Donald Trump to three years and four months in prison. US District Judge Amy Berman Jackson had been accused of bias by Stone's attorneys in a filing on Friday that called for her recusal.  Stone, 67, was convicted on November 15 of lying to Congress, obstruction of justice and witness tampering. In a court filing on Sunday, Jackson rejected his lawyers' arguments and defended her impartiality. Trump has also complained about the judge in posts on Twitter. He has said he has no immediate plans to pardon Stone and would let the legal process play out, but that 'at some point I'm going to make a determination.' His tweets about the case plunged attorney general, Bill Barr, into a crisis over the rule of law, with the president declaring himself the 'chief law enforcement officer,' and demanding Barr 'clean house.'  In sentencing Stone on Thursday, Jackson said the veteran Republican operative's lies to lawmakers investigating Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election amounted to a threat to American democracy. She issued a stunning rebuke not just of Stone but of the president himself, saying the prosecution was not brought by 'political enemies,' and that there was no 'anti-Trump cabal' at the hear of the case. She slammed the 67-year-old defendant as an 'insecure person who craves and recklessly pursues attention.'  'He was not prosecuted, as some have complained, for standing up for the president, he was prosecuted for covering up for the president,' she said. 'There was nothing unfair, phony or disgraceful about the investigation or the prosecution.'   She had savaged him in his sentencing remarks - and rebuked the president himself, possibly for his tweet this morning which was during the first part of her hearing. 'This case did not arise because Roger Stone was being prosecuted by his political enemies,' Berman Jackson said. She said Stone told 'flat out lies,' and that his conviction had nothing to do with whether Russia interfered in the 2016 election. He was guilty of a 'corrupt, unlawful,' campaign to stop his lies being exposed when he threatened Randy Credico, who he named as his 'go-between' to Julian Assange, to stop Credico revealing the truth, that there was another go-between. Stone was also guilty of withholding texts and emails from Congress, prompting Berman Jackson to again lash out at the president.  He was spared immediate incarceration while Judge Berman Jackson decides whether or not to grant his request for a retrial.   Department of Justice attorneys had originally requested a far harsher punishment of seven to nine years only to see their recommendation ripped up by Attorney General William Barr, who drew praise from Trump for labeling it 'excessive and unwarranted'. The intervention sparked accusations of political interference, forcing Barr on the defensive as he denied bowing to White House influence and appealed for Trump to curb his explosive Twitter criticisms of Judge Jackson and the supposedly 'tainted' case against Stone.  The president had issued a rash of presidential pardons last week, leading to speculation Stone would be the next person to receive one. But instead Trump said he was watching how the legal process played out. 'I am following this very closely, and I want to see it play out to its fullest,' the president said. 'I'm not going to do anything in terms of the great powers bestowed upon a president of the United States. I want the process to play out. I think that is the best thing to do. Because I would love to see Roger exonerated, and I would love to see it happen. Because I personally think that he was treated very unfairly,' Trump said of his longtime adviser. Stone was convicted of lying to the Intelligence Committee about his attempts to contact WikiLeaks, the website that released damaging emails about Trump's 2016 Democratic election rival Hillary Clinton that U.S. intelligence officials have concluded were stolen by Russian hackers.    
