trump
{ By Valerie Edwards For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:50, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8035481/Judge-Judy-says-shell-fight-Bernie-Bros-death-bid-Bloomberg-White-House.html }
Judge Judy who officially threw her support behind Michael Bloomberg last month has just a few words for the Bernie bros: 'I'll fight them to the death.' The judge whose real name is Judy Sheindlin said earlier this month that she is ready to put up a fight against Bernie Sanders and his supporters. 'America doesn’t need a revolution,' she told Fox 25 while on the campaign trail with Bloomberg in Oklahoma City. 'It’s the most perfect country in the world and those people that are trying to change it and revolutionize it, don’t have a chance, because I’ll fight them to the death,' she added.  Scroll down for video   After the judge finished speaking, Bloomberg quipped: 'Don’t get on the wrong side of the judge. That’s the message.'  While on the campaign trail in Texas this weekend, Sanders predicted a victory in Texas not only in the Democratic primary but in November's general election. The Vermont senator adopted the tone of a candidate who has already secured the nomination before thousands of cheering supporters who filled a basketball arena on the campus of the University of Houston on Sunday. Referring to supporters of President Donald Trump, Sanders said: 'Don't tell anybody because these folks get very agitated and nervous... We are going to win here.' Sanders meant during the primary's 'Super Tuesday' on March 3, but also said 'in November we're going to defeat Trump here'. Last month, Sheindlin endorsed Bloomberg's presidential bid, explaining in a television ad for the former mayor why she was giving her blessing to a White House candidate for the first time. Sheindlin issued her verdict on Bloomberg, saying his government and business experience qualifies him for the top job in the land. 'I'd like to say you can judge someone's character by what they've done. Mike Bloomberg has done amazing things and will be a truly great president,' Sheindlin said.  'No one comes close to Mike's executive achievement, government experience, and impactful philanthropy. His steady leadership will unite our country and bring us through these very challenging times,' she added. Sheindlin's 30-second ad for Bloomberg, titled 'Judge Him,' will run 'across digital channels and in relevant broadcast programming across 26 states,' according to a statement from Bloomberg's campaign.  She has also had tough words for some of the frontrunners for the Democratic nomination. She criticized Joe Biden, calling the former vice president a 'No. 2 guy' and noted Elizabeth Warren and Sanders were just senators. 'You have somebody who is a No. 2 guy and a senator - you have two senators,' she told People magazine last month. And she said Pete Buttigieg was 'lovely' but was just a small town mayor. 'You have a very lovely young man who ran a very small town for a very short time. If you were the governor of Indiana, you would still be governing two million people less than New York City,' Sheindlin said. Bloomberg was a late entry into the Democratic field, casting himself as an alternative choice to a Democratic field that has failed to see a candidate catch fire. And last week, he was declared the loser of his first debate that took place in Las Vegas.  What is becoming an increasingly bitter nomination fight, the Democratic presidential candidates focused their attacks on Bloomberg on the debate stage.   He has spent more than $400million so far on advertising that in turn has given him strong standing in state and national polls. Sanders recalled Bloomberg's support of stop-and-frisk policing targeting minorities while Warren spoke about how Bloomberg had mocked women. 'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians,' Warren said.  'And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg.'  Amy Klobuchar also quipped that, 'I don't think you look at Donald Trump and say I think we need someone richer in the White House'.  Biden said Bloomberg condoned racist police practices, and Buttigieg said Bloomberg was trying to 'buy out' the Democratic Party. 
