{ By Geoff Earle, Deputy U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:06, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8035123/Joe-Bidens-lead-Bernie-Sanders-South-Carolina-drops-5-points.html }
Former Vice President Joe Biden is complaining that billionaire hedge-funder Tom Steyer is cutting his support among African American voters in South Carolina – as he declined to predict he would get the endorsement of a key powerbroker in the state. Biden's comments come as he tries to use what appears to be a second-pace showing in Nevada to inject new energy into his campaign and try to score his first win in South Carolina.  'What's happening is you have Steyer spending hundreds of millions, tens of thousands of dollars, millions of dollars, out campaigning there. And so I think a lot is happening in terms of the amount of money being spent by the billionaires to try to cut into the African-American vote,' Biden told CBS' 'Face the Nation. 'I think that has a lot to do with it,' he groused.  But Biden said he thinks Steyer won't do any better in South Carolina than he did in Nevada, where he spent millions and didn't net a single delegate. 'I think the same amount he took in Nevada. Nothing,' Biden said on the campaign trail in South Carolina Sunday. But Biden wouldn't predict he will get the coveted endorsement of Rep. James C. Clyburn on Wednesday. Clyburn is a towering figure in South Carolina politics and a leader in the Congressional Black Caucus. 'I´m not counting on anything,' he said, though he said a nod from Clyburn 'will be a big deal.' Biden's lead over Sen. Bernie Sanders is just 5 percentage points in South Carolina, as senior Democrats raised concerns about the dangers of having a self-described democratic socialist at the top of the ticket. Centrists are scrambling to use the state to try to stop Sanders' rise – with some observers predicting he could have the nomination essentially in hand after Super Tuesday. Biden was leading Sanders by 28 to 23 in a new CBS / YouGov poll released Sunday, a day after Sanders trounced rivals in the Nevada caucuses.  It was unclear whether Sanders' run of successes in Iowa, New Hampshire, and Nevada would continue to give him a lift, in a state where Biden has campaigned heavily and has strong support among the state's African American voters.   Biden told supporters in Las Vegas Saturday night: 'We're alive and we're coming back and we're going to win.' He added: 'I think we're in a position now to move on in a way that we haven't been until this moment. I think we're going to go, we're going to win in South Carolina, and then Super Tuesday and we are on our way.' 'I ain’t a socialist. I ain’t a plutocrat. I’m a Democrat,' Biden said.  Democratic Rep. James C. Clyburn of South Carolina, a powerbroker in the state, told ABC's 'This Week' Sanders' could pose a 'real burden for us.' Clyburn, the House Majority Whip, said voters were 'pretty leery about that title socialist.' He added: 'It’s going to be tough to hold onto these jobs if you have to make the case for accepting a self-proclaimed Democratic socialist.' Biden was set to visit a black church in Charleston on Sunday as he fires up his campaign in the final week.  Biden resisted calling the state his own 'firewall' when asked about it on CBS' 'Face the Nation.' 'You said it, my firewall,' Biden told interviewer Margaret Brennan.  'I said I'm going to do well there. And I'll do well there and I'll do well-beyond there as well,' Biden said. 'I think we're gonna do well, and I think we're going to go on to Super Tuesday and do very well,' he said, after scoring a second-place finish in Nevada behind Sanders.  Sanders predicted in a Saturday nigh victory speech that his multi-racial coalition would 'sweep this country.'  Biden had led Sanders by as much as 28 points in the poll this fall. Now, he plans to spend every day of the coming week in the state to campaign. 'We have a long way to go here,' former Democratic National Committee chair and past presidential candidate Howard Dean cautioned on CNN.  Sanders held his victory rally in Texas, one of a group of states that hold voting on Super Tuesday, where he has the potential to solidify support among a divided field.  Democrats meet on the debate stage again on Tuesday, this time in Charleston.  Steyer, a hedge funder and philanthropist, continues to be a factor in South Carolina, where he has spent heavily, despite failing to break through in Nevada despite a similar ad blitz. He got no delegates and about 4 per cent of the vote. 'I think I have done best with black people. I have done best with Latinos. I think that when we get to the diverse Democratic electorate, when we get to the diversity that is America and the Democratic Party, I do a lot better,' Steyer told 'Fox News Sunday.'  'So South Carolina happens to be a place that has a pretty high concentration of African-Americans. And those happen to be people that I talk to a lot and have a lot of – have a long history of working with,' he said.  Buttigieg held campaign events in South Carolina and northern Virginia on Sunday.  Before an overflow crowd at a high school in Arlington, Buttigieg kept up his hits on Sanders.  I respect my friend Sen. Sanders. I believe the ideals he talks about are ideal we all share. But I also believe that the way we will build the movement that to defeat Donald Trump is to call them into our tent, not to call them names online.'  'We can do this together, we have to do this together,' he said, reaching out to independents and Republicans. He called for 'mobilizing, not polarizing' the American majority he said wants to defeat Trump. He spoke about the need to keep the House and take over the Senate.    'We dare not ignore, we dare not dismiss, and we absolutely dare not attack those voices in the Democratic party focusing on keeping those seats in the right hands, because the next president is going to need that in order to get any of our big bold ideas done,' Buttigieg said.      
