{ By Valerie Edwards and Lauren Fruen For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:53, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8035057/Kirk-Douglas-left-entire-60million-fortune-charity.html }
Michael Douglas hit the campaign trail on behalf of Mike Bloomberg Sunday, after it was revealed the actor's father Kirk Douglas bequeathed his entire $60 million fortune to charity.  The Wall Street actor, 75, appeared in the former New York City mayor's hometown of Quincy, Massachusetts, telling the crowd: 'This is really, truly one of the best candidates we’ve had running for office in 30 to 40 years.' He went on to praise Bloomberg's efforts on gun control after appearing at the event with his son Dylan, his eldest child with Catherine Zeta-Jones.  Appearing to acknowledge Bloomberg's much derided debate performance last week, Douglas added: 'I mean he may not win the contest in stand up comedian but you can't be everything to everybody. So I just admire this guy so much. I am really happy to be out here.'  Addressing the Bloomberg campaign office Sunday Oscar winner Michael Douglas went on: 'Thank you so much for being here today, for supporting Mike. Let's go see what happens and let's get this done.'  Bloomberg, 78, did not appear to be at the event on Sunday.   Scroll down for video   Bloomberg's stiff and testy manner on the Las Vegas stage last week led to questions about the viability of his campaign and if it can last past Super Tuesday, where the former mayor is banking on winning a majority of delegates when 14 states hold their primaries.  There have also been reports of several lawsuits that accuse Bloomberg of making crude comments in the 1990s and creating an uncomfortable work environment for women. He has denied the allegations.  And he has also had to fend off criticism about his past support for controversial policies like ‘stop-and-frisk’.   But Michael Douglas told a crowd in Wisconsin earlier this month that his Hollywood legend father tipped Bloomberg for president just before he died.  'I leaned over close to him, and he said, 'Mike can get it done,'' the younger Douglas, who has lent his voice for Bloomberg commercials, told the crowd, to a throng of cheers.  The star has backed Bloomberg for taking a stand on gun control and his 12 years of leadership in New York following the September 11 terrorist attacks. He called the billionaire a proven leader who reminded him of John F. Kennedy. 'He's just a really, really impressive man,' said Douglas.  Hollywood screen legend Clint Eastwood, 89, has also backed Bloomberg. he said: ‘The best thing we could do is just get Mike Bloomberg in there.’ Bernie Sanders earned a decisive victory Saturday in the Nevada caucuses, solidifying his frontrunner status in the race to choose the Democratic nominee who faces President Donald Trump in November's election.  The 78-year-old senator from Vermont was leading with about 46 percent, followed by former vice president Joe Biden at 19 percent. South Bend, Indiana's former mayor Pete Buttigieg, who scored a shock narrow win in Iowa to start the race nearly three weeks ago, stood in third at 15 percent. The two female US senators in the running, progressive Elizabeth Warren and pragmatist Amy Klobuchar, were on 10 and four percent respectively.  Kirk was laid to rest on February 7 at the Westwood Memorial in Los Angeles, two days after he died at his home. He was 103. According to the Mirror, Kirk didn't leave any money to his son, Michael, a Hollywood star who has his own net worth of about $300million. But Kirk, who was known for his charitable contributions throughout his life, did leave the money to several beneficiaries.  A total of $50million will be distributed through the Douglas Foundation, which was founded by Kirk and his wife, Anne.   According to the Mirror, some of the beneficiaries include St Lawrence University, the Sinai Temple of Los Angeles, the Kirk Douglas Theatre and the Children's Hospital Los Angeles. Prior to his passing Kirk and Anne were already in the process of making more generous donations.    Kirk is survived by Anne, who is his second wife, and three of his four sons: Michael, Joel, and Peter.   Michael, 75, responded to his father's death by posting a series of pictures of the two of them together, including a family portrait with all Kirk's sons. He called his father 'a legend', 'a humanitarian' and 'a wonderful husband'.    'It is with tremendous sadness that my brothers and I announce that Kirk Douglas left us today at the age of 103,' Michael wrote at the time.   'To the world he was a legend, an actor from the golden age of movies who lived well into his golden years, a humanitarian whose commitment to justice and the causes he believed in set a standard for all of us to aspire to. 'But to me and my brothers Joel and Peter he was simply Dad, to Catherine, a wonderful father-in-law, to his grandchildren and great grandchild their loving grandfather, and to his wife Anne, a wonderful husband. 'Kirk's life was well lived,' Douglas added, 'and he leaves a legacy in film that will endure for generations to come, and a history as a renowned philanthropist who worked to aid the public and bring peace to the planet'. 'Let me end with the words I told him on his last birthday and which will always remain true. Dad- I love you so much and I am so proud to be your son,' Michael said.  Kirk and Anne married in 1954. Kirk had two sons with Anne, Eric and Peter Douglas.  Their youngest son Eric tragically died of an accidental drug overdose in 2004 aged 46.  Michael Douglas and his brother Joel were the sons of Kirk and his first wife Diana Douglas, who died in 2015 aged 92.   German-born Anne, 100, met Kirk in Paris when she was the publicity girl on his 1953 film Act Of Love.  Anne initially turned down the job as Kirk had built up a reputation as a Lothario but eventually agreed to work with him as long as it was strictly business. At the time, Kirk was engaged to actress Pier Angeli but says he 'fell out of love with her'.  He married Anne in Las Vegas on May 29, 1954. Kirk admitted to extramarital affairs in their 65 years as a married couple.  Anne knew about the affairs and wrote: 'One of the things I love most about Kirk is his inability to keep secrets… Let me explain my attitude concerning this. As a European, I understood it was unrealistic to expect total fidelity in a marriage.'  Douglas suffered a stroke back in 1996 that left him with slurred speech and damaged facial nerves but it didn't stop him from attending the Academy Awards ceremony two weeks later to receive a Lifetime Achievement Award. He had been in relatively good health since his stroke. Michael's wife, Catherine Zeta-Jones, 50, was among those leading the tributes in the wake of her father-in-law's death, writing alongside a photo of the pair: 'To my darling Kirk, I shall love you for the rest of my life. I miss you already. Sleep tight...' A host of other Hollywood stars joined in the outpouring of grief, with celebrities and fans alike flooding social media to honor the legendary screen star after news of his death broke.   Sylvester Stallone, who shared a poster from Douglas's 1949 boxing film Champion, wrote on Instagram: 'KIRK DOUGLAS!!! The last great giant of my cinema heroes has passed on to Infinite glory. Amazing artist! The likes of which we will never ever see again!' Steven Spielberg presented Douglas with an honorary Oscar at the Academy Awards in 1996 and was also one of those who gave remarks at the star's 100th birthday party in December 2016. 'Kirk retained his movie star charisma right to the end of his wonderful life and I’m honored to have been a small part of his last 45 years,' Spielberg said.  'I will miss his handwritten notes, letters and fatherly advice, and his wisdom and courage – even beyond such a breathtaking body of work – are enough to inspire me for the rest of mine.'  Douglas was the son of Jewish Russian immigrants who rose through the ranks to become one of Hollywood's biggest-ever stars. The famed actor and producer, who was one of the last of Hollywood's Golden Age, made more than 90 movies in a career that stretched across seven decades. He was renowned for the macho tough guy roles he took on. Films such as Spartacus and The Vikings made him one of the biggest box-office stars of the 1950s and 60s. Douglas received critical acclaim for his role in the 1960 classic Spartacus where he played the gladiator leader of a Roman slave revolt.  He was nominated three times for the best actor Oscar in 1949 for Champion, The Bad and the Beautiful in 1953 and Lust for Life in 1957. Douglas never received an Academy Award for an individual film but the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences awarded him an honorary Oscar in 1996 for his role as a creative and moral force in the movie industry.   
