trump
{ By Ralph R. Ortega For Dailymail.com and Jeff Powell For The Daily Mail   Published:  16:26, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034987/Trump-invites-Tyson-Fury-Deontay-Wilder-White-House-Gypsy-King-reclaims-title.html }
US president Donald J. Trump said he wants Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder to visit the White house after Britain's 'Gypsy King' reclaimed the heavy championship title during a thrilling bout in Las Vegas on Saturday night. 'That was a great fight' Trump said, responding to a reporter's question on the White House lawn on Sunday morning.  The president, who was about to leave with First Lady Melania Trump for an official trip to India, appeared thrilled he was asked and stopped himself to comment just before making his departure. 'Two great fighters,' Trump gushed. 'It was really very exciting.'  Trump began to think aloud about having not just the champion Fury, but also Wilder, as his White House guests. 'May be we have to bring them both to the White House - I don't know - because that was really a good one,' he said in a moment of indecision. Then he made up his mind about inviting Fury and Wilder, 'I think we'll do that,' and stepped away to leave for his trip to India. Fury pulled off the greatest victory for any English boxer abroad as he stopped America's KO king Wilder with an utterly dominant, devastating performance. The Gypsy King arrived in the ring carried on a golden throne and ascended into the pantheon of all-time heavyweight greats on the wings of genius. Fury has now completed a full set of the world heavyweight belts by adding Wilder's WBC title and the Ring Magazine accolade to the WBA, WBO, IBF and IBO prizes he held previously after defeating Wladimir Klitschko. But the manner of it enhanced the accomplishment. This was simply phenomenal. Fury not only battered around the most feared puncher in the ring but his aggressive tactics took away Wilder's space in which to throw his Bronze Bombs. Fury floored twice the man who had done the same to him twice in their epic draw 14 months. This was the rematch but, astonishingly, it was hardly a match at all. Fury praised Wilder's courage for getting up just as he had before fulfilling his customary promise to sing in the ring if he won. The choice of song was a little less complimentary: American Pie. 'I told you I would do this,' Fury roared. Yes, he did. I am one of many who wish I had listened. Wilder's corner threw in the towel in the seventh just as referee Kenny Bayless intervened to save him from further punishment. He said: 'I wish my team had let me go out on my shield.' After this it will require a lot of thought before he decides to implement the contracted loser's right to demand a third fight. A late surge of money at the Vegas sports books cemented Wilder as the betting favourite, a position Fury had held since the fight was announced. But Fury relished the role of the underdog. Both men arrived early with the arena barely a third full for the preliminary bouts. So as the big screens picked them up walking to their dressing rooms there were muted cheers from the early birds for Fury, in one of his suits of many colours, and just isolated cries of 'Bomber' for Wilder in dark kit. Wilder's party seemed to get lost en route from his penthouse suite in the MGM and they took him and his fiancée on a ten to 15 minute march from the bottom of the elevator, through the thronged hotel lobby and around the inner corridors of the Grand Garden to reach his billet. Perhaps it was to continue keeping them at distance following the Nevada Commission's prohibition on them staging a stare-down at the weigh-in following a shoving and slagging match at the final media conference. Saturday night's win in Las Vegas perhaps caps off one of the best comebacks boxing has ever seen. The Gypsy King once sat proudly on his throne above the rest of the heavyweight division in 2015 after he beat Wladimir Klitschko to claim all four belts in emphatic fashion. However, the 31-year-old would quickly go on to vacate the belts as he spiralled into a life of addiction and depression which nearly led to Fury taking his own life. As he began to battle his demons, Fury would also begin to pile on the pounds and would reach a staggering 27 stone before going on to face a charge from UK Anti-Doping. Fury was charged with taking the banned substance nandrolone – something he denied taking. The Manchester-born heavyweight was due to face Klitschko in a rematch but had to pull out of the bout after declaring himself 'medically unfit'. It was also reported that Fury had failed a drugs test for taking cocaine before pulling out of the rematch. In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine, Fury would open up on his battle with depression and how he was a 'manic depressive' while also admitting to having suicidal thoughts on a regular basis. After a major turning point, Fury returned to training in the spring of 2017 and would reclaim his boxing license following several run-ins with the boxing and anti-doping authorities. Having reapplied for his license in January 2018, Fury targeted a huge comeback fight with Wilder but has warm-up bouts with Sefer Seferi and Francesco Pianeta, which he won comfortably. Fury also had to repair his public image after he caused outrage for appearing to equate homosexuality with paedophilia in 2015. His comments saw him dropped from the running for BBC's Sports Personality of the Year award. Fury later apologised for his comments. In December 2018, Fury would get his match with Wilder after shedding nearly 10 stone to fight the Bronze Bomber inside the MGM Arena in an exhilarating contest that controversially ended as a draw. While many commended Fury for peeling himself off the mat twice to draw with Wilder, it wasn't enough for the Gypsy King. Over a year later, Fury would complete his miraculous comeback to beat Wilder in Las Vegas and win the WBC heavyweight title. However, they looked pictures of tranquillity as they made their separate ways to work. Fury was then shown lounging and smiling at the cameras. A majority of the 16,000 crowd were expected to be vociferous Fury followers but the man himself said beforehand: 'I love my supporters but when it comes to the fight it makes no difference if there's 50,000 of my fans. Once the bell goes it's just a boxing match between two men.' So did the roars for the Gypsy King - in his crown and robes and carried to the ring on a golden throne - from the Brits and travellers. They also drowned out the American welcome for Wilder, in one of his trademark masks and body armour to a powerful rap about black power. Fury, who has famously battled mental health issues, showed lovely humour by his choice of song for his entrance: 'Crazy.' Prior to that there was huge acclaim for ring appearances by Lennox Lewis, Evander Holyfield and loudest of all Mike Tyson.  Wilder was unable to stick around to fulfill his media duties after the fight as he was rushed to hospital after suffering a burst eardrum during the fight. The Bronze Bomber now has 30 days to activate his rematch clause for a trilogy fight. It would mean a Battle for Britain heavyweight unification fight with Anthony Joshua would take a back seat. While talk of rematches and potential opponents dominated proceedings in the press, Fury took time out to celebrate a hugely successful night by partying with friends and family at Las Vegas super club Hakkasan.    
