{ By Associated Press   Published:  05:08, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8034147/AP-News-Brief-12-04-m-EST.html }
Moderates hustle to blunt Sanders' momentum after Nevada win WASHINGTON (AP) - Bernie Sanders commanding Nevada caucus victory made him a top target for his Democratic rivals and a growing source of anxiety for establishment Democrats worried that the nomination of an avowed democratic socialist could cost the party in November. Sanders' win solidified his front-runner status in the crowded field as the race turned to Saturday's presidential primary in South Carolina, where his moderate opponents scrambled to try to blunt the Vermont senator's momentum. But with so-called Super Tuesday just three days later, when 14 states vote and one-third of the delegates are awarded, time was running short for Sanders' opponents to consolidate support. That prospect on Sunday amplified concerns among Democrats who believe Sanders' call for a political "revolution" would drive moderate and independent voters away from the party, both in the matchup against President Donald Trump and in House and Senate races. "I think it would be a real burden for us in these states or congressional districts that we have to do well in," South Carolina Rep. Jim Clyburn, the House minority whip and the top-ranking black Democrat in Congress, said Sunday on ABC's "This Week." Clyburn, who said he'll endorse a candidate on Wednesday, specifically pointed to the districts Democrats flipped to take control of the House in 2018. "In those districts, it's going to be tough to hold on to these jobs if you have to make the case for accepting a self-proclaimed democratic socialist," he said. ___ Italy rushes to contain Europe's first major virus outbreak CODOGNO, Italy (AP) - Italy scrambled Sunday to check the spread of Europe's first major outbreak of the new viral disease amid rapidly rising numbers of infections and a third death, calling off the popular Venice Carnival, scrapping major league soccer matches in the stricken area and shuttering theaters, including Milan's legendary La Scala. Concern was also on the rise in neighboring Austria, which halted all rail traffic to and from Italy for several hours after suspicion that a train at its southern border with Italy had two passengers possibly infected with the virus on board, authorities said. Austria's interior ministry said it had been informed by Italy큦 railway company that two passengers had fever and stopped the train at the Brenner crossing before it could enter Austria. However, just before midnight Austria's Federal Railways announced on Twitter the ban had been lifted. Austrian Interior Minister Karl Nehammer said the two people suspected of being infected with the virus on the Eurocity 86 train from Venice to Munich had tested negative and the train would be allowed to continue on its way, according to the ORF broadcast network. The decision to call off Venice Carnival was announced by Veneto regional Gov. Luca Zaia as the number of confirmed virus cases soared to 152, the largest number outside Asia. "The ordinance is immediately operative and will go into effect at midnight,'' said Zaia, whose area includes Venice, where thousands packed St. Mark's Square. Carnival would have run through Tuesday. ___ South Korea put on high alert, Italy battles virus outbreak SEOUL, South Korea (AP) - South Korea큦 president said Sunday that he was putting his country on its highest alert for infectious diseases, ordering officials to take "unprecedented, powerful" steps to fight a soaring viral outbreak, while a continent away in Italy, authorities battled to contain Europe's first major outbreak of the virus. China also reported hundreds more infections for a total of about 77,000, and Iran raised its death toll from the virus to eight - the highest toll outside of China. While the number of patients worldwide is increasing, some virus clusters have shown no link to China and experts are struggling to trace where those clusters started. The Iranian health ministry said there were now 43 confirmed cases in Iran, which did not report its first case of the virus until Wednesday. In Italy큦 northern Lombardy region, which includes the nation큦 financial capital, Milan, the governor announced Sunday that the number of confirmed cases stood at 110. Italy now has 152 cases, the largest number outside of Asia, including three deaths, the most recent on Sunday. Venice, which is full of tourists for Carnival events, reported its first two cases, said Veneto Gov. Luca Zaia, whose region includes the lagoon city. It wasn't immediately known if the two infected had participated in Carnival festivities. ___ Reliability of pricey new voting machines questioned In the rush to replace insecure, unreliable electronic voting machines after Russia's interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential race, state and local officials have scrambled to acquire more trustworthy equipment for this year큦 election, when U.S. intelligence agencies fear even worse problems. But instead of choosing simple, hand-marked paper ballots that are most resistant to tampering because paper cannot be hacked, many are opting for pricier technology that computer security experts consider almost as risky as earlier discredited electronic systems. Called ballot-marking devices, the machines have touchscreens for registering voter choice. Unlike touchscreen-only machines, they print out paper records that are scanned by optical readers. South Carolina voters will use them in Saturday큦 primary. The most pricey solution available, they are at least twice as expensive as the hand-marked paper ballot option. They have been vigorously promoted by the three voting equipment vendors that control 88 percent of the U.S. market. Some of the most popular ballot-marking machines, made by industry leaders Election Systems & Software and Dominion Voting Systems, register votes in bar codes that the human eye cannot decipher. That큦 a problem, researchers say: Voters could end up with printouts that accurately spell out the names of the candidates they picked, but, because of a hack, the bar codes do not reflect those choices. Because the bar codes are what큦 tabulated, voters would never know that their ballots benefited another candidate. ___ Passage to India: Trump ready for warm embrace, adulation WASHINGTON (AP) - It was the Trumpiest of offers. A rally at one of the world's largest stadiums. A crowd of millions cheering him on. A love fest during an election year. President Donald Trump's packed two-day visit to India promises the kind of welcome that has eluded him on many foreign trips, some of which have featured massive protests and icy handshakes from world leaders. He is expected to receive a warm embrace from the ideologically aligned and hug-loving Prime Minister Narendra Modi, complete with a massive rally soon after his arrival Monday and then a sunset visit to the Taj Mahal. After hosting Modi at a "Howdy Modi" rally in Houston last year that drew 50,000 people, Modi will return the favor with a "Namaste Trump" rally (it translates to, "Greetings, Trump") at the world's largest cricket stadium in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad. Tens of thousands are expected to line the streets. Modi "told me we큞l have 7 million people between the airport and the event," Trump said to reporters Tuesday, then raised the anticipated number to 10 million when he mentioned the trip during a Thursday night rally. Indian authorities expect closer to 100,000. ___ B. Smith, model turned lifestyle guru, dead at 70 NEW YORK (AP) - Barbara "B." Smith, one of the nation's top black models who went on to open restaurants, launch a successful home products line and write cookbooks, has died at her Long Island home at age 70 after battling early onset Alzheimer's disease. Smith's family announced on social media that she died Saturday evening. "Heaven is shining even brighter now that it is graced with B.'s dazzling and unforgettable smile," Smith's husband Dan Gasby said on Facebook. Smith's eponymous Manhattan restaurant opened in 1986 and attracted a following among affluent black New Yorkers, The New York Times recalled. Essence magazine described it as the place "where the who큦 who of black Manhattan meet, greet and eat regularly." Smith wrote three cookbooks, founded three successful restaurants and launched a nationally syndicated television show and a magazine. Her successful home products line was the first from a black woman to be sold at a nationwide retailer when it debuted in 2001 at Bed Bath & Beyond. ___ Who is No. 1? Whoever gets to fill out 2020 Census form ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) - It's a question spouses, domestic partners and roommates are going to be forced to confront in the next few weeks as they fill out their 2020 Census forms: Who gets to be the primary person in the household? Everyone else who lives in the home has to be identified on the form by how they are related to so-called "Person 1." It's a question that even the most egalitarian homes are going to have to figure out - though it's sure to spark some intriguing conversations. For married couple Debbie Kleinberg and Frankie Huff, it's a no-brainer. "Me, because anytime Frankie has paperwork, I do it," said Kleinberg, a credit administrator, who lives with her college-professor wife in an Orlando suburb. Kleinberg says the 2020 Census-answering process in their home will follow a familiar pattern. ___ US 'honor roll' of historic places often ignores slavery BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) - Antebellum Southern plantations were built on the backs of enslaved people, and many of those plantations hold places of honor on the National Register of Historic Places - but don큧 look for many mentions of slavery in the government큦 official record of places with historic significance. The register큦 written entries on the plantations tend to say almost nothing about theenslaved peoplewho picked the cotton and tobacco or cut the sugar cane that paid for ornate homesthattoday serve as wedding venues, bed-and-breakfast inns, tourist attractions and private homes - some of which tout their inclusion on the National Register like a gold star. The National Register of Historic Places lists more than 95,000 sites that are important to the story of theUnited States. From some of the most famous places -such asGeorge Washington큦 Mount Vernon estate - to scores of lesser-known plantation homes in the rural South, register entries often ignore the topic of slavery or mention it only in passing, an Associated Press review found. Experts blame a generational lack of concern for the stories of black people and, in many cases, a shortage of records. While some narratives have been updated to include information about enslavement, such changes aren't mandatory and many have not. The National Register큦 entry for Mount Vernon, approved in 1977, doesn큧 use the word "slave," although more than 300 enslaved black people worked the first president's fields, cooked his food and cleaned the house where tourists now roam. ___ Haiti police exchange fire with troops near national palace PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) - Off-duty police officers and their supporters exchanged fire for nearly two hours on Sunday with members of the newly reconstituted Haitian army in front of the national palace, in a dangerous escalation of protests over police pay and working conditions. At least three police officers were wounded, fellow officers told The Associated Press. Associated Press journalists saw dozens of men who said they were off-duty officers march with hundreds of supporters toward the palace in the latest in days of demonstrations demanding better pay for Haitian law-enforcement officers. The protest stopped outside the army headquarters facing the palace. Associated Press journalists then saw several soldiers at the headquarters building fire into the air. Shortly afterward, an exchange of fire erupted between the soldiers and police. It was not clear which side began firing at the other first. ___ Skeptic of world being round dies in California rocket crash BARSTOW, Calif. (AP) - A California man who said he wanted to fly to the edge of outer space to see if the world is round has died after his home-built rocket blasted off into the desert sky and plunged back to earth. "Mad" Mike Hughes was killed on Saturday afternoon after his rocket crashed on private property near Barstow, California. Waldo Stakes, a colleague who was at the rocket launch, said Hughes, 64, was killed. The Science Channel said on Twitter it had been chronicling Hughes' journey and that "thoughts & prayers go out to his family & friends during this difficult time." "It was always his dream to do this launch," the Twitter message said. 
