{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com In Las Vegas, Nevada and Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com In Las Vegas, Nevada   Published:  21:05, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032979/Sanders-strong-showing-Las-Vegas-caucus-sites.html }
Bernie Sanders was declared the winner of the Nevada caucuses Saturday despite only a fraction of the vote in.  Sanders had a formidable lead, taking 46.6 per cent of the delegates with 22 per cent of precincts reporting. 'I'm delighted to bring you some very good news,' a jovial Sanders announced to a crowd of supporters at his rally in San Antonio, Texas Saturday evening, alongside his wife Jane.  'I think all of you know we won the popular vote in Iowa. We won the New Hampshire primary. And, according to three networks and the AP, we have now won the Nevada caucus,' Sanders said as audience members erupted in chants and cheers.  Sanders then predicted he would go on to 'sweep' the primary elections in the rest of the states.    Trump went ahead and congratulated Sanders before most networks had called the race.  'Looks like Crazy Bernie is doing well in the Great State of Nevada. Biden & the rest look weak, & no way Mini Mike can restart his campaign after the worst debate performance in the history of Presidential Debates,' Trump said.  'Congratulations Bernie, & don't let them take it away from you!' the president wrote.   In response to the president's tweet, Sanders told rally-goers not to reveal how much support he had in the country's most populous red state. 'Don't tell anybody, I don't want to get them nervous, we are going to win the Democratic primary in Texas. And you know, this is also important the president gets very, very upset easily, so don't tell him we're going to beat him here in Texas,' Sanders said.  Sanders left Nevada before precinct locations had adjourned their caucuses and headed to Texas for two rallies Saturday. Texas is a state Sanders will likely struggle to gain support in the Democratic primary, since voters are generally more moderate in the Lone Star State. During his first rally Saturday in border city of El Paso, Texas, Sanders did not bring up his jarring lead. As Trump tweeted, NBC News said the race was 'too early to call.' The network then called the race as Sanders' rival Joe Biden was speaking in Nevada, claiming his second place finish, with 19.25 per cent of the vote, was enough to reboot his struggling campaign.  'I know the press is ready to declare people quickly dead,' Biden told his supporters.  'We're alive and we're coming back and we're going to win.'  One person loudly yelled that Biden was the 'comeback kid,' while Biden boasted he would go on to win South Carolina, where voters will head to the polls in a week.  Sanders is coming off a win in New Hampshire, with Pete Buttigieg coming in a close second in the Granite State. He came third in Nevada, with 15.38 per cent of the vote. In Iowa, Buttigieg beat Sanders in the delegate count by a hair, while the Vermont senator won the popular vote. Biden finished in fourth place in Iowa and fifth place in New Hampshire. Reporting for Nevada started to filter in the early afternoon Saturday, though stayed at 3 per cent for more than an hour, as Democrats tried to avoid having reporting problems like they did in Iowa thanks to a malfunctioning app. CNN reported that some precinct chairs had trouble calling in and reporting the results.    Despite the major momentum for the Vermont senator in the Silver State, the candidate had already left to campaign in Texas before the Nevada caucus sites adjourned.  Sanders is holding two campaign rallies in the Lone Star State Saturday, where a more moderate Democratic electorate could spell trouble for the democratic socialist. He'll also hold a Houston rally Sunday. Texas votes on March 3, with 13 other 'Super Tuesday' states.      Buttigieg and Biden stayed in Las Vegas, while Amy Klobuchar - who came fifth with 4.51% of the vote - headed back to her home state of Minnesota for a rally. Minnesota is one of the 14 so-called 'Super Tuesday' states.     Buttigieg used his event to both congratulate Sanders and warn Democratic voters about the victor. 'I congratulate Senator Sanders on a strong showing today, and we certainly celebrate many of the same ideals,' Buttigieig admitted, although he rarely likens himself to the Democratic socialist candidate. 'But before we rush to nominate Senator Sanders, in our one shot to take on this president, let's take a sober look at the consequences - for our party, for our values, and for those with the most at stake,' he urged. The former mayor of South Bend, Indiana also reminded the 300 or so audience members that he won against Sanders in Iowa. 'Ours is the only campaign that has beaten Senator Sanders anywhere in the country,' he said to a cheering crowd gathered at a the Spring Preservation nature area just five miles from the Vegas strip. Mike Bloomberg, the billionaire 2020 hopeful who decided to skip the four opening states, had his campaign manager send out a statement also warning of what Sanders win could mean.  'The Nevada results reinforce the reality that this fragmented field is putting Bernie Sanders on pace to amass an insurmountable delegate lead,' Bloomberg's campaign manager Kevin Sheekey said. 'We are going to need Independents AND Republicans to defeat Trump – attacking your own party is no way to get started. As Mike says, if we choose a candidate who appeals to a small base – like Senator Sanders – it will be a fatal error.'   The caucuses kicked off at noon on Saturday, though 75,000 Nevada Democrats had participated in early voting.   At the Bellagio Hotel on the iconic Las Vegas strip, 123 people participated in the caucuses, with the room breaking out into chants for Sanders and Biden - as the vast majority only supported those two candidates.  The site consisted of residents from a 2.5 mile radius as well as shift workers from the hotel who wanted to participate in the middle of the work day.   There was a small showing for Elizabeth Warren - who came fourth, with 10.27% - as well, whose debate performance against newbie Bloomberg dominated the headlines in Nevada all week after Wednesday night's Democratic debate.  At the Bellagio, for candidates to be 'viable' at least 19 caucus participants had to back them.  Only Sanders and Biden qualified during the first counting, while seven people came out for Warren.   One attendee even realigned from Warren's group early, deciding to support Sanders instead.  When the early realignment was announced over the microphone, Sanders' supporters cheered enthusiastically while Biden supporters booed.   The site only required one realignment, with Sanders ultimately earning 76 total ballots cast for him after one person moved to the senator's camp and Biden earned support from 45 caucus-goers – earning 6 more after the realignment. The president of the caucus-site announced that they would send 32 delegates to the county convention for Sanders and 19 for Biden. Only two people remained uncommitted in the caucuses at Bellagio. The Bellagio is an at-large caucus site, encompassing several hotel and casino workers, and there were tables set up outside of the ballroom where attendees could register to vote. Ahead of the caucuses, the tables were surrounded by individuals filling out the paperwork to be able to participate. A rideshare driver on the way to the site told DailyMail.com that he wanted to cast a ballot, but after finding out it was a bigger ordeal than pressing a button, decided he had to work and earn money instead.  At Rancho High School in north Las Vegas two precincts simultaneously caucused in a gymnasium. At both precincts, Sanders was the only viable candidate - and early voters far outnumbered those who showed up to the school. In one precinct, just 20 people caucused in person, while another 61 had cast early votes. Sanders picked up 46 of those early votes, while another 13 caucused for him Saturday in person, during the precinct's first alignment.   Happening directly beside that precinct was another that overwhelmingly felt the Bern. Of the 16 Democrats who came to caucus in person, 12 were there to support the Vermont senator. Sanders was supplemented by an additional 20 early votes. He won all 13 delegates from that precinct, while earning 24 from the adjacent precinct. No other candidate won any. However, there were 11 precincts caucusing at Rancho High School overall, with Biden and Steyer also winning some delegates.  Nevada began caucusing in primary contests in 1981, but the state did not earn early primary status until 2008, when the Democratic National Committee made Nevada the second-in-the-nation caucuses following Iowa's caucuses and New Hampshire's primary election.  The final two Nevada polls that dropped Friday had shown Sanders with a comfortable lead. And he was leading in entrance polls Saturday as well.     Democrats are hoping that Nevada's caucuses go off without a hitch after an app glitch led to chaos in Iowa at the beginning of the month, with Sanders' campaign still challenging the count that saw Buttigieg win by a tiny fraction.  Earlier in the week, Democratic National Committee chairman Tom Perez told DailyMail.com he couldn't predict when results would be up for Nevada.  Perez couldn't guarantee whether the crop of 2020 presidential candidates competing in the Democratic primary would see results by the end of Saturday.  'I don't know how many people are going to show up, so that's an impossible question to answer,' Perez said. 'I know we're going to try to get results as soon as possible. But we want to get results that are accurate and we want to make sure we count every vote.'   While the Nevada Democratic Party is holding its official nominating contest on Saturday, the state experienced days earlier a massive number of participants in its first-ever early voting in Nevada. Nearly 75,000 people cast early voting ballots, the party announced Friday, which is only 10,000 voters shy of the entire caucus count from 2016, which stood around 84,000. In the 2016 primaries, around 1.3 million of the 3 million residents in Nevada voted. The population of the western state is mostly contained to Las Vegas, Henderson and Reno, its three largest cities. The state ended up voting to nominate Hillary Clinton and in the primaries voted for Clinton by a margin of 2.4 per cent more than Donald Trump. JOE BIDEN Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 78 Entered race: April 25, 2019 Career: No current role. A University of Delaware and Syracuse Law graduate, he was first elected to Newcastle City Council in 1969, then won upset election to Senate in 1972, aged 29. Was talked out of quitting before being sworn in when his wife and daughter died in a car crash and served total of six terms. Chaired Judiciary Committee's notorious Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings. Ran for president in 1988, pulled out after plagiarism scandal, ran again in 2008, withdrew after placing fifth in the Iowa Caucuses. Tapped by Obama as his running mate and served two terms as vice president. Contemplated third run in 2016 but decided against it after his son died of brain cancer. Family: Eldest of four siblings born to Joe Biden Sr. and Catherine Finnegan. First wife Neilia Hunter and their one-year-old daughter Naomi died in car crash which their two sons, Joseph 'Beau' and Robert Hunter survived. Married Jill Jacobs in 1976, with whom he has daughter Ashley. Beau died of brain cancer in 2015. Hunter's marriage to Kathleen Buhle, with whom he has three children, ended in 2016 when it emerged Hunter was in a relationship with Beau's widow Hallie, mother of their two children. Hunter admitted cocaine use; his estranged wife accused him of blowing their savings on drugs and prostitutes Religion: Catholic Views on key issues: Ultra-moderate who will emphasize bipartisan record. Will come under fire over record, having voted: to stop desegregation bussing in 1975; to overturn Roe v Wade in 1981; for now controversial 1994 Violent Crime Act; for 2003 Iraq War; and for banking deregulation. Says he is 'most progressive' Democrat. New positions include free college, tax reform, $15 minimum wage. No public position yet on Green New Deal and healthcare. Pro-gun control. Has already apologized to women who say he touched them inappropriately Would make history as: Oldest person elected president Slogan: Our Best Days Still Lie Ahead MIKE BLOOMBERG Age on Inauguration Day: 78 Entered race: November 24, 2019 Career: Currently multi-billionaire CEO of Bloomberg PL, the financial information firm he founded in 1981 and which remains a private company. Educated at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, he became a Wall Street trader at investment bank Salomon Brothers and was laid off in 1981, walking away with $10m in stock which he used to set up his own financial information firm, now one of the world's largest. Three times mayor of New York 2002 to 2013, running first as Republican then as independent; had to get term limits suspended for final term. Once flirted with running for mayor of London where he has a home; holds an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth. Has spent large amounts on philanthropy in line with his political views as well as on political campaigns Family: Born in Brookline, MA, to first-generation Jewish immigrant parents whose own parents had fled Russia. Divorced wife of 18 years, Susan Brown-Meyer, in 1993; former couple have daughters Emma, who has a son with her former boyfriend, and Georgina, who has daughter Zelda with her husband Chris Fissora. The child has a portmanteau surname, Frissberg. Partner since 2000 is Diana Taylor, former New York state banking commissioner, 13 years his junior Religion: Jewish Views on key issues: Self-professed fiscal conservative, although painted as a Democratic moderate by other conservative groups. Opposed to Medicare for all. Social progressive who backed gay marriage early, but has flip-flopped on marijuana legalization, most recently opposing it.. Wants firm action on climate change. Fiercely in favor of gun control. As New York mayor banned smoking in public places and tried to outlaw large sugary drinks. Backs increased immigration. Apologized for his stop-and-frisk policing strategy as mayor Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president; richest president ever; first New York mayor to become president Slogan:  Fighting For Our Future PETE BUTTIGIEG Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Announced formation of exploratory committee January 23, 2019. Formally entered race April 14, 2019 Career: Currently mayor of Sound Bend, Indiana. Harvard grad and Rhodes scholar who got a second degree from Oxford before working as a McKinsey management consultant and being commissioned as a Navy Reserve intelligence officer. Elected South Bend mayor in 2011 and served in combat in 2013, won re-election in 2015 Family: Came out as gay during second mayoral run and married husband Chasten Glezman, a middle school teacher in 2018. Parents were University of Notre Dame academics; his father was Maltese-American. Surname is pronounced BOOT-edge-edge Religion: Raised as a Catholic, now Episcopalian Views on key issues: Has said Democratic party needs a 'fresh start'; wrote an essay in praise of Bernie Sanders aged 17; backed paid parental leave for city employees; other policies unknown  Would make history as: First openly gay and youngest-ever president. First veteran of post-World War II conflict  Slogan: A Fresh Start For America   TULSI GABBARD Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Still to formally file any papers but said she would run on January 11 2019 Career: Currently Hawaii congresswoman. Born on American Samoa, a territory. Raised largely in Hawaii, she co-founded an environmental non-profit with her father as a teenager and was elected to the State Legislature aged 21, its youngest member in history. Enlisted in the National Guard and served two tours, one in Iraq 2004-2006, then as an officer in Kuwait in 2009. Ran for Honolulu City Council in 2011, and House of Representatives in 2012 Family: Married to her second husband, Abraham Williams, a cinematographer since 2015. First marriage to childhood sweetheart Eduardo Tamayo in 2002 ended in 2006. Father Mike Gabbard is a Democratic Hawaii state senator, mother Carol Porter runs a non-profit. Religion: Hindu Views on key issues: Has apologized for anti-abortion and anti-gay marriage views; wants marijuana federally legalized; opposed to most U.S. foreign interventions; backs $15 minimum wage and universal health care; was the second elected Democrat to meet Trump after his 2016 victory Would make history as: First female, Hindu and Samoan-American president; youngest president ever Slogan: Lead with Love     AMY KLOBUCHAR Age on Inauguration Day: 60 Entered race: Announced candidacy February 10, 2019 at snow-drenched rally in her native Minneapolis Career: Currently Minnesota senator. Yale and University of Chicago law graduate who became a corporate lawyer. First ran unsuccessfully for office in 1994 as Hennepin, MI, county attorney, and won same race in 1998, then in 2002, without opposition. Ran for Senate in 2006 and won 58-38; re-elected in 2012 and 2018 Family: Married to John Bessler, law professor at University of Baltimore and expert on capital punishment. Daughter Abigail Bessler, 23, works fora Democratic member of New York City council. Father Jim, 90, was a veteran newspaper columnist who has written a memoir of how his alcoholism hurt his family; mom Rose is a retired grade school teacher Religion: Congregationalist (United Church of Christ) Views on key issues: Seen as a mainstream liberal: says she wants 'universal health care' but has not spelled out how; pro-gun control; pro-choice; backs $15 minimum wage; no public statements on federal marijuana legalization; has backed pro-Israel law banning the 'boycott, divestment and sanctions' movement; spoke out against abolishing ICE Would make history as: First female president Slogan: Let's Get To Work   BERNIE SANDERS Age on Inauguration Day: 79 Entered race: Sources said on January 25, 2019, that he would form exploratory committee. Officially announced February 19 Career: Currently Vermont senator. Student civil rights and anti-Vietnam activist who moved to Vermont and worked as a carpenter and radical film-maker. Serial failed political candidate in the 1970s, he ran as a socialist for mayor of Burlington in 1980 and served two terms ending in 1989, and win a seat in Congress as an independent in 1990. Ran for Senate in 2006 elections as an independent with Democratic endorsement and won third term in 2018. Challenged Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination in 2016 but lost. Campaign has since been hit by allegations of sexual harassment  - for which he has apologized - and criticized for its 'Bernie bro' culture Family: Born to a Jewish immigrant father and the daughter of Jewish immigrant parents in Brooklyn, New York. First marriage to college sweetheart Deborah Shiling Messing in 1964 ended in divorce in 1966; had son Levi in 1969 with then girlfriend Susan Cambell Mott. Married Jone O'Meara in 1988 and considers her three children, all adults, his own. The couple have seven grandchildren. His older brother Larry is a former Green Party councilor in Oxfordshire, England.  Religion: Secular Jewish  Views on key issues: Openly socialist and standard bearer for the Democratic party's left-turn. Wants federal $15 minimum wage; banks broken up; union membership encouraged; free college tuition; universal health care; re-distributive taxation; he opposed Iraq War and also U.S. leading the fight against ISIS and wants troops largely out of Afghanistan and the Middle East Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president Slogan: Not me. Us. TOM STEYER  Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 63 Entered race: July 9, 2019 Career: Currently retired. New York-born to wealthy family, he was educated at elite Phillips Exeter Academy, and Yale, then Stanford Business School. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs banker who founded his own hedge fund in 1986 and made himself a billionaire; investments included subprime lenders, private prisons and coal mines. Stepped down in 2012 to focus on advocating for alternative energy. Longtime Democratic activist and donor who started campaign to impeach Trump in October 2017. Net worth of $1.6 billion has made him one of the Democrats' biggest single donors Family: Married Kathryn Taylor in 1986; they have four adult children who have been told they will not inherit the bulk of his fortune. Announced last November he and his wife would live apart. Father Roy was a Nuremberg trials prosecutor Religion: Episcopalian Views on key issues: On the left of the field despite being a hedge fund tycoon. Backs single-payer health care, minimum wage rises and free public college. Previously spoke in favor of Bernie Sanders' agenda. Aggressive backer of climate change action, including ditching fossil fuels Would make history as: Richest Democratic president ever Slogan: Actions Speak Louder Than Words   ELIZABETH WARREN Age on Inauguration Day: 71 Entered race:  Set up exploratory committee December 31, 2018 Career: Currently Massachusetts senator. Law lecturer and academic who became an expert on bankruptcy law and tenured Harvard professor. Ran for Senate and won in 2012, defeating sitting Republican Scott Brown, held it in 2018 60% to 36%. Was short-listed to be Hillary's running mate and campaigned hard for her in 2016 Family: Twice-married mother of two and grandmother of three. First husband and father of her children was her high-school sweetheart. Second husband Bruce Mann is Harvard law professor. Daughter Amelia Tyagi and son Alex Warren have both been involved in her campaigns. Has controversially claimed Native American roots; DNA test suggested she is as little as 1,064th Native American Religion: Raised Methodist, now described as Christian with no fixed church Views on key issues: Was a registered Republican who voted for the party but registered as a Democrat in 1996. Pro: higher taxes on rich; banking regulation; Dream Act path to citizenship for 'dreamers'; abortion and gay rights; campaign finance restrictions; and expansion of public provision of healthcare - although still to spell out exactly how that would happen. Against: U.S. presence in Afghanistan and Syria; liberalization of gambling Would make history as: First female president  Slogan: Warren Has A Plan For That  AND THE 21 WHO HAVE WITHDRAWN     MICHAEL BENNET, Colorado senator CORY BOOKER, New Jersey Senator  STEVE BULLOCK, Montana governor  JULIÁN CASTRO, former Housing Secretary KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, New York senator BILL DE BLASIO, New York City mayor  JOHN DELANEY, former Maryland Congressman MIKE GRAVEL, Former Alaska governor  KAMALA HARRIS,California senator   JOHN HICKENLOOPER, Former Colorado governor JAY INSLEE, Washington governor  WAYNE MESSAM, mayor of Miramar, Florida  SETH MOULTON, Massachusetts congressman RICHARD OJEDA, former West Virginia state senator BETO O'ROURKE, former Texas congressman DEVAL PATRICK, former Massachusetts governor  TIM RYAN, Ohio congressman JOE SESTAK, former Pennsylvania congressman  ERIC SWALWELL, California congressman MARIANNE WILLIAMSON, author ANDREW YANG, entrepreneur   
