{ By Andrew Court For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:01, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032415/Trump-warns-Democrat-voters-careful-Russian-interference.html }
President Donald Trump has taken to Twitter warning Democrat voters to 'be careful' of Russian interference - despite dismissing claims of Kremlin meddling as a 'hoax' just 24 hours earlier.  The Commander-in-chief took to Twitter on Saturday morning after news that Democratic front-runner Bernie Sanders was recently told by officials that Russia is trying to help his campaign.  'Democrats in the Great State of Nevada (Which, because of the Economy, Jobs, the Military & Vets, I will win in November), be careful of Russia, Russia, Russia. According to Corrupt politician Adam 'Shifty' Schiff, they are pushing for Crazy Bernie Sanders to win. Vote!' Trump tweeted.  Scroll down for video  On Friday, The Washington Post, citing people familiar with the matter, reported that US officials had told Sanders about the Russian effort to bolster his chances in the primary.  Sanders confirmed that he was briefed on the claims about a month ago. His campaign noted the briefing was classified. 'We were told that Russia, maybe other countries, are going to get involved in this campaign,' Sanders told reporters. 'Look, here is the message: To Russia, stay out of American elections.' 'What they are doing, by the way, the ugly thing that they are doing - and I've seen some of their tweets and stuff - is they try to divide us up,' he said. 'They are trying to cause chaos. They're trying to cause hatred in America.' Sanders' campaign put out a statement which read: 'Unlike Donald Trump, I do not consider Vladimir Putin a good friend. But while Trump, in his tweet on Saturday, appeared to indicate that claims Russia was helping Sanders were legitimate, he has dismissed any notion that the country could also be bolstering his chances of reelection in 2020.  'Another misinformation campaign is being launched by Democrats in Congress saying that Russia prefers me to any of the Do Nothing Democrat candidates who still have been unable to, after two weeks, count their votes in Iowa. Hoax number 7!' Trump lamented on Twitter Friday morning. The president's comments come after The New York Times published a report Thursday claiming Acting DNI Joseph Maguire told Congress during a classified briefing that the Kremlin wanted to see Trump win reelection because it would be better for their interests. Maguire was recently ousted from his acting post and U.S. Ambassador to Germany Richard Grenell was appointed in his stead as Trump continues to search for a permanent director. Maguire's aide, according to the Times report, told the House Intelligence Committee that Russia was attempting to interfere in the 2020 elections on the side of getting Trump back for another four years. The committee members were briefed that Russia favors Trump and were told about its efforts to hack and attack election infrastructure and the Kremlin's continued attempts to use social media platforms in its campaign of distrust.  Vladimir Putin's operatives want to both help Trump and create public doubts about the outcome of the election, the officials briefed lawmakers during the session about 'the integrity of our upcoming elections.'  One lawmaker told the Daily Beast that the officials briefed them that: 'It continues with the same target, and the same purpose, and it's clear that they [the Russians] favor one candidate over the other.   
