{ By Ariel Zilber For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:43, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032201/Clint-Eastwood-backs-Mike-Bloomberg-says-MeToo-got-hand-Harvey-Weinstein.html }
Clint Eastwood thinks former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg should be the next president and that he wishes President Trump would change his behavior. The 89-year-old Dirty Harry actor and self-proclaimed libertarian told The Wall Street Journal that while he supports ‘certain things that Trump’s done,’ he thinks the president should act ‘in a more genteel way, without tweeting and calling people names. ‘I would personally like for him to not bring himself to that level,’ the Academy Award-winner told the Journal. He then said: ‘The best thing we could do is just get Mike Bloomberg in there.’ Bloomberg, the former Republican who later became an independent, made a late entry into the race for the Democratic party nomination. The media mogul whose net worth is said to be more than $63billion has so far spent hundreds of millions of dollars of his own money on ads across the country. The ad blitz appears to be working as polls show Bloomberg within striking distance of the front-runner, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. The former New York City mayor has also secured several endorsements from prominent Democrats in Congress. On Wednesday, however, Bloomberg appeared unprepared and performed badly during a debate with the other candidates in Las Vegas. Bloomberg has also had to fend off criticism about his past support for controversial policies like ‘stop-and-frisk’ as well as his company’s handling of sexual harassment allegations by women employees. Eastwood has not been shy about making his political views known. In 2012, Eastwood gave a speech at the Republican National Convention in Tampa endorsing Mitt Romney for president. He famously stood on stage and spoke to an empty chair that represented then-President Barack Obama. Eastwood has also held public office. In 1986, he was elected as the nonpartisan mayor of his hometown of Carmel-by-the-Sea, California, an office he held for two years. In the interview with the Journal, Eastwood also weighed in on the #MeToo movement. 'The #MeToo generation has its points,' the filmmaker said, praising women for 'standing up against people who are trying to shake you down for sexual favors.' Eastwood acknowledged that women in Hollywood have been victimized by powerful men for decades. 'It was very prolific back in the 1940s and ’50s,' he said, adding, 'and the ’60s, ’70s, ’80s, ’90s…' Eastwood said that while he doesn't defend Harvey Weinstein, he is worried that accusations against men might impact 'presumption of innocence, not only in law, but in philosophy.'  Weinstein is the film mogul who is currently on trial for sexually assaulting women. He has been accused of various sex crimes against scores of female figures in Hollywood. Eastwood also defended himself against accusations involving his film about the late Richard Jewell. Eastwood held firm and dismissed criticism from the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, the local newspaper outraged over his portrayal of late journalist Kathy Scruggs. Scruggs - who died in 2001 - was the reporter for the newspaper who was the first to publish that the FBI was treating Jewell as a suspect. Jewell, played by Paul Walter Hauser, who was wrongfully treated as a suspect after finding a bag of explosives planted by Eric Robert Rudolph at the 1996 Olympics and saving thousands of people's lives. The AJC accused Eastwood and Warner Bros., the film studio behind the movie Richard Jewell, of inferring that Scruggs traded sexual favors for journalistic tips. The AJC claimed in a legal letter that the motion picture falsely depicts Scruggs, who was played in the film by actress Olivia Wilde, as trying to sleep with an FBI agent, played by John Hamm, for information. In the interview with the Journal, Eastwood says that he invoked cinematic license. ‘Well, she hung out at a little bar in town, where mostly police officers went,’ Eastwood said of Scruggs. ‘And she had a boyfriend that was a police officer. ‘Well, we just changed it in the story. We made it a federal police officer instead of a local.’ Eastwood accused AJC of trying to hide its ‘guilt’ for a ‘reckless story’. The director said that the newspaper was ‘ultimately responsible’ for Jewell’s death in 2007. The former security guard, who was exonerated of any wrongdoing, died at the age of 44 due to heart failure and complications of diabetes. Eastwood dared the newspaper to sue, saying that he wished Warner Bros. told the AJC ‘to go screw themselves.’ The studio has said it would fight any lawsuit. ‘Make my day!’ Eastwood said, invoking the line made famous by his Dirty Harry character. ‘If you want to just go call more attention to the fact that you helped kill the guy, go ahead and do it - if you’re dumb enough to do that.’  
