trump
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  06:48, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031563/Roger-Stones-tearful-stepdaughter-says-family-destroyed-calls-trial-corrupt.html }
Roger Stone's stepdaughter bemoaned he convicted felon's sentencing and treatment while in trial, stating that her 'family is being destroyed' by the 'corrupt' case.  Adria Stone, the family's representative, slammed the 40 month sentencing her step-father received on Thursday. He was convicted last fall for lying repeatedly to Congress and obstruction of justice.  'He has been frustrated,' Adria Stone said when asked by Fox News if Roger was in good spirits.  'He is under a gag order. We are looking at an appeal. But I don't know the process of this. I don't know what they are going to be planning. I am not part of that process.  Scroll down for video  'I represent the family, who is being destroyed during this entire process. Having horrible things written to my daughter who is going to have a baby in two weeks and I don't have a father or a grandfather to be present during this because we are here in Washington D.C. dealing with this trial.' She later added: 'It is unbelievably heart wrenching that we have to keep going through this. It is unfair. My daughter is having a baby in two weeks. We can't be present as parents and grandparents because we are defending Roger's life and our family name... Our family has been stretched and torn apart.'  Stone was convicted last fall of lying to lawmakers over his efforts to procure stolen Democratic Party emails from WikiLeaks in 2016 to boost Trump's chances of becoming President. He was sentenced Thursday, but according to Adria, he is not nervous about heading to prison. 'Roger Stone has nerves of steel,' she declared of the felon, 'and he has faith in this country, in our democracy and in our president. And I believe that he and I are hoping that more is looked into what went on in this trial. 'Because we appear to be doing things that are out of order to give a sentencing when we haven't even proven that this trial was run fairly and that it wasn't corrupt.' Roger Stone's stepdaughter claimed that U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson was misleading when she expressed sentiments that the trial was not political, adding that '45 minutes' of it had been.  Adria claimed that it had been proven that the Mueller Investigation was not good, calling it 'phony' and adding Roger Stone's arrest as a casualty of the investigation.  'And my dad has been under a tremendous amount of pressure,' she claimed. 'To testify and bear false witness against President Trump, which he has absolutely refused and that's what this is about.'  Adria felt that there were too many Democrats involved with the case and expressed annoyance that an African American man or a veteran wasn't asked to be a juror. The family rep also made claims that all of the jury members had ties to the Justice Department.   She did also criticize the role of the jury forewoman in Stone's trial, Tomeka Hart, who she accused of being an anti-Trumper.  Adria falsely said that Hart attacked Stone on Twitter twice, when the former jury forewoman has only been shown to have retweeted a post and shared emojis to news pertaining to the former Trump advisor.  'That does not seem fair to me,' she added.  Stone's lawyers pointed to some social media posts written by Hart on Facebook as one of the reasons they requested a retrial for Stone. Hart posted her appreciation for the four federal prosecutors who resigned after Attorney General Bill Barr interfered in the Stone case.  The prosecutors in Stone's case resigned after the Justice Department intervened and lowered the sentencing recommendation for Stone. Hart praised their work and outed herself as the jury forewoman in Stone's trial in the aftermath. Roger Stone was found guilty on all charges of: 1. Obstruction of justice, lying to Congress and witness tampering by trying to get Randy Credico to lie to Congress. Sentenced to 40 months 2. Lying to Congress that he did not have emails or texts about Julian Assange. Sentenced to 12 months concurrent with the first count 3. Lying when he claimed his references to being in touch with Assange were actually about a 'go-between' - Randy Credico. Sentenced to 12 months concurrent with the first count 4. Lying that he didn't ask his 'go-between' to communicate with Assange. Sentenced to 12 months concurrent with the first count 5. Lying that he didn't text or email the 'go-between' about WikiLeaks. Sentenced to 12 months concurrent with the first count 6. Lying that he had never discussed conversation with his 'go-between' with anyone in the Trump campaign. Sentenced to 12 months concurrent with the first count 'It pains me to see the DOJ now interfere with the hard work of the prosecutors. They acted with the utmost intelligence, integrity, and respect for our system of justice,' she wrote on Facebook.  Hart, it further emerged, had unsuccessfully ran for Congress as a Democrat in 2012 and had participated in anti-Trump rallies and protests.  She had frequently denounced Trump on social media, calling the President and his supporters racists, and posted emojis of hearts and fist pumps after finding Stone guilty last November.  Hart had also re-tweeted a post by pundit Bakari Sellers dismissing Stone's claims that the FBI used excessive force when they arrested him at his Fort Lauderdale, Florida home in January 2019.  A Stone juror, Seth Cousins, told CNN on Wednesday that Hart was a fair juror. 'She was probably the strongest advocate in the room for a rigorous process, for the rights of the defendant and for making sure that we took it seriously and looked at each charge,' Cousins said. 'Without her in the room, we would have returned the same verdict and we would have returned it more quickly and without looking as deeply into the evidence. I am firmly convinced of that.' At Stone's sentencing hearing on Thursday in Washington D.C., U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson issued a stunning rebuke not just of Stone but of the president himself, saying the prosecution was not brought by 'political enemies,' and that there was no 'anti-Trump cabal' at the hear of the case. 'He was not prosecuted, as some have complained, for standing up for the president, he was prosecuted for covering up for the president,' she said. 'There was nothing unfair, phony or disgraceful about the investigation or the prosecution.'  It was unknown whether Berman Jackson was aware of his latest intervention but it came amid a case roiled by politics and mounting speculation Stone will be pardoned. Even before she spoke, prosecutors staged their own revolt against the president calling the case 'righteous' and demanding a lengthy prison sentence despite their initial call for nine years being over-ruled by Attorney General Bill Barr in one of the main acts of an unfolding constitutional crisis. She said Stone told 'flat out lies,' and that his conviction had nothing to do with whether Russia interfered in the 2016 election.  He was guilty of a 'corrupt, unlawful,' campaign to stop his lies being exposed when he threatened Randy Credico, who he named as his 'go-between' to Julian Assange, to stop Credico revealing the truth, that there was another go-between. Stone was also guilty of withholding texts and emails from Congress, prompting Berman Jackson to again lash out at the president.  
