trump
{ By Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com    Published:  04:43, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031363/Dick-van-Dyke-94-endorses-Bernie-Sanders-77-calls-older-generation-vote.html }
Iconic actor and comedian Dick Van Dyke has endorsed Senator Bernie Sanders for the 2020 presidential election, urging older citizens to support his candidacy. 'I can't wait to see Bernie debate Mr Trump,' the 94-year-old said in a Friday endorsement video.  Van Dyke, who endorsed Sanders in 2016, said he was not concerned about the 78-year-old's possible performance as president.  'The age question keeps coming up,' he stated. 'I know that I'm 20 years older than Bernie. I have all my marbles. I could run for office if I wanted to.   'So I don't think age - it really doesn't matter, except for his experience and the years he's put in.'   Van Dyke struggled understanding why Sanders had difficulty appealing to those from the older generations.    'Why wouldn't an older citizen vote for somebody with that kind of a record and with that kind of experience and honesty and trust?' Van Dyke said.  'It just doesn't make sense to me that he's not getting my generation. And I want to urge my generation to get out and vote for him, please.' The 'Mary Poppins' star declared that the November election would be the most important one held since the end of World War II. While not mentioning Trump by name, Van Dyke did suggest that democracy was doomed if his administration had 'another four years.'  Van Dyke continued with his criticism of Trump, stating: 'Four more years of no concern about the climate. We must get him out of there. Democratic principles are flying out the window. He has assumed authority beyond what the president is allowed and he's going to get worse.'  The comedian said that it was shameful that the United States was one of the only countries that did not have universal healthcare.   'Bernie has been consistent with his policies ever since I first met him when he was in the Senate. He never has changed his attack because of pressure from the outside or when he felt the wind was blowing another way,' Van Dyke concluded.  'He stuck to who he is and what he believes in. So I think somebody younger, like Bernie, is just a perfect candidate. Yeah, he'll be around a long time.' Bernie has dominated national polls but struggled with older voters, relying heavily on his young base.  
