{ By Afp and Lauren Edmonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:55, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031245/Trump-cheats-golf-Bloomberg-mocks-president-billboard.html }
Billionaire politician Mike Bloomberg has publicly mocked President Donald Trump with a series of ridiculing billboards that claim he cheats at golf, eats burnt steak and that he lost the popular vote in the 2016 election. Bloomberg, a new Democratic presidential hopeful, unveiled the provoking billboards on Friday in Las Vegas, Nevada, and Phoenix, Arizona, as his latest attack against Trump. Although Bloomberg, 79, has not publicly discussed his new eye-catching election advertisements, his campaign admitted that they’re meant to be specifically antagonizing to the president ahead of two scheduled Trump 2020 rallies in those cities on the same day. ‘Trump had a rally in Phoenix this week. We made sure there was a nice gift waiting for him,’ they wrote on Twitter. Just two miles away from the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas, people can see slogans ‘Donald Trump cheats at golf,’ ‘Donald Trump lost the popular vote’ and ‘Donald Trump’s wall fell over.’ The changing billboard also reads ‘Donald Trump has declared bankruptcy six times,’ ‘Donald Trump went broke running a casino,’ and ‘Donald Trump eats burnt steak…Mike Bloomberg likes his medium rare.’ While Bloomberg is not scheduled to join his fellow candidates at the Nevada Caucus ballot on Saturday, he appears to have worked his way into the fold last minute. The tension between Bloomberg and Trump has only intensified since the former mayor of New York revealed his bid in early November. They’ve since traded blows on Twitter, with Trump calling Bloomberg a ‘5’4” mass of dead weight’ and Bloomberg responding that the president was a ‘carnival barking clown.’ People who saw the billboard slogans in real time are divided by both Bloomberg and Trump’s controversies. Gerry Frenze, a transport company owner from Delaware who was in Las Vegas, said: ‘A lot of people cheat at golf, it's probably true, but I don't like the idea [Bloomberg] can buy his way into office.’ So far, Bloomberg's campaign has spent more than $460 million dollars since November and critics have accused him of buying his way into Democratic candidacy. His wife, Kim Corrigan, pushed back at Trump when considering the slogans. ‘Trump makes you want to attack him. I don't like [Bloomberg] doing that. But Trump started it. The way he operates cheapens everyone,’ she said. Social media users also chimed in with criticisms and jokes about Bloomberg’s advertisement campaign. ‘Not exactly “I like Ike” but it’s memorable,’ said Politico reporter Alex Thompson. The Nation reporter, Ken Klippenstein, suggested Bloomberg’s consultants were swindling him. ‘Bloomberg’s consultants are grifting him so hard,’ he wrote. Other’s latched onto the ‘Donald Trump eats burnt steak slogan’ by pointing out that it actually aligns him with the majority of Americans. ‘More Americans eat their steak well done then medium rare according to a @YouGov poll,’ journalist Yashar Ali wrote. ‘Also you can barely see Mike Bloomberg’s name...’ Author Jared Yates Sexton said: ‘Fun fact: my working-class family eats their steak well-done and pointing out that Trump has character quirks and peccadilloes that are considered "low-class" only ingratiates him to them.’ ‘Glad everyone thought Bloomberg was electable and is reveling in his rampant classism.’ Ardent Trump supporter Sean Hannity also weighed in on the billboard by calling the move en 'epic fail.' 'Dude,' Hannity wrote, 'you're getting ripped off by your consultants.'  On the other hand, some users said the billboards would actually energize Bloomberg's supporters. 'Besides having resources, the biggest thing Bloomberg's supporters say they like about him is that he's aggressive against Trump,' one person wrote. 'So, basically, the main reason to vote for him is this billboard.'   Apart from the new billboards placed in the Las Vegas Strip, Trump and Bloomberg have shared insults on Twitter.  On February 13, Trump blasted Bloomberg as 'Mini Mike' and pitted him against 'Crazy Bernie' Sanders.  'Mini Mike Bloomberg is a LOSER who has money but can't debate and has zero presence, you will see. He reminds me of a tiny version of Jeb 'Low Energy' Bush, but Jeb has more political skill and has treated the Black community much better than Mini,' he wrote.  In another tweet, Trump further mocked Bloomberg's stature.  'Mini Mike is a 5'4' mass of dead energy who does not want to be on the debate stage with these professional politicians. No boxes please,' he wrote.  'He hates Crazy Bernie and will, with enough money, possibly stop him. Bernie's people will go nuts.' Trump has also called Bloomberg a racist for his Stop and Frisk policies he implemented in New York City. Those policies have since been blasted for targeting minorities.   In response, Bloomberg suggested that friends of Trump laughed behind his back. Bloomberg said: 'Behind your back they laugh at you & call you a carnival barking clown.  'They know you inherited a fortune & squandered it with stupid deals and incompetence. I have the record & the resources to defeat you. And I will.' He later shared a gif with the message: 'The time for honoring yourself will soon be at an end.' As Bloomberg continues to lash out against Trump, he's devastatingly faltered when going toe-to-toe with his candidates in his own party. In the most recent Democratic Debate, it was determined that Bloomberg was scorched by the other candidates on stage - specifically Elizabeth Warren.  'I’d like to talk about who we’re running against,' she said.  'A billionaire who calls women ‘fat broads’ and ‘horse-faced lesbians.’ And no, I’m not talking about Donald Trump. I’m talking about Mayor Bloomberg.'  She then pointed out Bloomberg's mistreatment of women and the fact that he had women sign non-disclosure agreements before he ran for office. Bloomberg said he's employed several women in positions of leadership and is a supporter of the #MeToo movement, but Warren cut through his speech. ' Warren said: 'I hope you heard what his defense was: "I’ve been nice to some women." That just doesn’t cut it.'  In the aftermath of the debate, Bloomberg released three women from non-disclosure agreements on Friday.  'If any of them want to be released from their NDAs, they should contact the company and they'll be given a release,' Bloomberg said.   Warren continued to hit back at Bloomberg and spoke out during an interview on CNN.  'And I thought I would make this easy,' she said. 'I wrote up a release and a covenant not to sue. And all that Mayor Bloomberg has to do is download it - I'll text it - sign it. And then the women, or men, will be free to speak and tell their own stories.' 
