{ By James Gordon For Dailymail.com    Published:  01:17, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030947/Indiana-couple-driving-pickup-forced-two-14-year-old-twin-boys-riding-bikes-road.html }
Police in Indiana have accused a couple of deliberately forcing two teenage boys off a road because they had President Trump flags attached to their bikes.  Hobart cops say video found on Snapchat ended up helping officers identify and charge those allegedly responsible. 23-year-old Kyren Gregory Perry-Jones and 18-year-old Cailyn Marie Smith have been charged in connection with the incident, which happened in July.  The couple who were driving the car are said to have run the 14-year-old teenage twin boys off the road after making threats towards them.  The boys told police that the vehicle had come up to them when the male driver asked one of the boys 'if they were Trump supporters', to which he confirmed they were.  The driver then swerved at the boys, forcing them onto grass at the side of the road to avoid being struck. The driver is then alleged to have followed the boys before getting out of the car and ripping off the flag from one of the brother's bikes. After dropping it on the ground, the driver then ran back to his car and drove away, 'but not before running the flag over,' according to an affidavit as seen by Fox 10. Perry-Jones and Smith have both been charged with felony counts of intimidation and criminal recklessness, felonies that could lend them time in prison if convicted. They were also charged with one count each of theft and criminal mischief, both misdemeanors. Although the incident happened in July, the charges were only brought now after a delay in obtaining the videos and other related information to the case from Snapchat.   The videos allegedly shot by the couple show their encounter with the boys.  'The driver turns the wheel sharply as if he saw the boys and wanted to hit them with the vehicle while yelling "ya'll better get home,"' the affidavit reads. A man's voice can then be heard instructing the woman passenger in the car to 'pull that flag down' before video shows her trying to reach for it through her window before telling the male driver to move closer.  The female is then heard saying "ya'll scared, just like your president" and "America is not great"' accompanied by some searing.   A second Snapchat video sees Perry-Jones allegedly saying, 'Don't let me see you downtown' to one of the boys with a threat to beat him up if he does so.  Perry-Jones also allegedly threatened to beat the boys up for calling 911, court records state. In the video, Perry-Jones also said that if police questioned him about it, he would just say the boys called him a racial slur. 
