trump
{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter In New Delhi For Dailymail.com   Published:  13:14, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042191/Michelle-Obama-LOVED-Harvey-Weinstein-Donald-Trump-attacks-movie-moguls-rape-conviction.html }
President Donald Trump attacked Democrats including Michelle Obama and Hillary Clinton for being 'fans' of Harvey Weinstein in his first comments on the rapist's conviction Tuesday. 'The people who liked him were the Democrats. Michelle Obama loved him, loved him. Hillary Clinton loved him,' he said a press conference in New Delhi in response to a question from DailyMail.com.  'I was never a fan of Harvey, as you know,' he said. 'He was a person I didn't like. 'I knew him because he was in New York.' In fact  he, his wife Melania and Weinstein and his wife Georgina Chapman were photographed together in 2009. Third degree rape - Jessica Mann: Guilty. Facing four years in prison Criminal sexual act - Mimi Haleyi: Guilty. Facing 25 years in prison  Predatory sexual assault - Jessica Mann and Annabella Sciorra: Not guilty. Carried a life sentence  Predatory sexual assault - Mimi Haleyi and Annabella Sciorra: Not guilty. Carried a life sentence  First degree rape - Jessica Mann: Not guilty. Carried a sentence of 25 years Trump said that Weinstein gave 'tremendous amounts' to the  Democrats and added: 'My question is will they return the money?' He also called the conviction a 'great victory' for women that 'sends a very strong message' for the #MeToo movement against that kind of behavior toward women. 'I think from the point of view of women, it is a great day, a great victory.'  Trump himself stands accused of sexually inappropriate behavior by more than a dozen women when he was a private citizen and has denied the allegations. Weinstein's links to the Democratic party are well-documented.  Weinstein and his family have donated more than $1.4 million to political causes in the 1992 election cycle, according to the Associated Press, mainly to Democrats. Specifically, the disgraced movie mogul gave $3,000 to former President Bill Clinton's reelection campaign in 2000, more than $26,000 to campaigns or political action committees Hillary Clinton's various political bids since 2000, and more than $45,000 to campaigns or super PACs supporting Barack Obama in his two presidential races. Weinstein also donated $250,000 to The Clinton Foundation, which it has refused to return, saying it had spent it already. The Obama family was also directly linked to Weinstein by their eldest daughter Malia being an intern at his company in the summer of 2017. In 2013, Michelle Obama called Weinstein 'a powerhouse' and 'wonderful' as she praised him at a White House reception. However Trump's claim to simply know Weinstein 'because he was in New York,' and that he was 'never a fan' is despite photographs showing him attending the premier of NINE in 2009, one of the disgraced movie mogul's productions, and posing with him and both their wives. Weinstein was in Bellevue Hospital in New York when Trump spoke about him in India, having been taken there after claiming he was unwell while on his way to Riker's Island where he was to be held to wait for sentencing next month. Weinstein was rushed to hospital by ambulance on Monday, shortly after being found guilty of raping and sexual assaulting two women.  The disgraced Hollywood producer was said to have been redirected to Bellevue Hospital Center after suffering chest pains while on the way to Rikers Island prison.  A rep later confirmed he was suffering from high blood pressure and having heart palpitations. It is thought the 67-year-old was still in hospital this morning as he had not been seen leaving the medical facility.  Although Weinstein has a history of diabetes and back problems, a source told the New York Post he was 'faking it a little bit'. The movie mogul is reportedly being held in the hospital's prison ward under close watch by corrections officers, but is not handcuffed to his bed.   Donna Rotunno, Weinstein's attorney, told Fox News her client was being examined for heart palpitations, adding, 'he is OK'.   Judge James Burke had initially ordered Weinstein to be taken to Rikers Island prison immediately, until his sentencing on March 11. Weinstein was convicted by a New York jury of sexually assaulting former production assistant Mimi Haleyi in his apartment in 2006 and raping aspiring actress Jessica Mann in a hotel room in 2013.  He was acquitted of the two most serious counts of predatory sexual assault, which each carried a potential life sentence. He was also found not guilty of first degree rape in relation to Mann.   Weinstein, who arrived at court using a walker for much of the trial, now faces a 29-year prison sentence, sealing his dizzying fall from powerful Hollywood studio boss to archvillain of the #MeToo movement.    Weinstein said to have appeared stunned in the immediate aftermath of the verdict and did not move when approached by court officers.  He was then handcuffed before being led out of the courtroom via a side door without the use of the walker he relied on for much for much of the trial.  Weinstein was then taken away from the courthouse by an ambulance with its emergency lights and sirens on.   The disgraced movie mogul had been seen using a variety of walkers, or sometimes no walker at all, at court.  He had surgery on his back in December after being injured in a car crash in August 2019. The judge said he will ask that Weinstein, who has been free on bail since his arrest nearly two years ago, be held in the prison infirmary after his lawyers said he needs medical attention following unsuccessful back surgery.  
