{ By Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com    Published:  00:15, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030915/Donald-Trump-claims-Barron-computer-genius-built-better-Obamacare-website.html }
Donald Trump brought up his youngest son during his rally in Las Vegas Friday, which he rarely does, and imitated a conversation between himself and Barron. While going off on a tangent about healthcare, and railing against Democrats for proposing single-payer healthcare systems, Trump said his youngest child could have created a better healthcare site than what came of Obamacare's open market, where people were supposed to go to sign up for a plan. 'We're now offering plans that are up to 60 per cent less expensive. We're going to make healthcare a big part of this campaign. We're protecting people with preexisting conditions, and we always will,' the president vowed. Scroll down for video  'We're running it much better than they did,' he said of the Obama administration and the former president's namesake healthcare program. 'Remember when they had – this was the greatest – the $5 billion website. $5 billion. It was supposed to cost $5 million. I have a son at home, he's 13. He's a genius with computers.' The president then imitated a conversation between himself and Barron, who apparently is always typing on a computer. 'Hi dad. What's up dad. Dad, get out of here,' Trump said, employing a different voice to make it clear he was quoting his son. 'Hey, listen. I'm the President of the United States, Barron. Don't talk to your –' Trump said, cutting himself off in his voice of Barron. 'Dad, come on, dad. Can't you see I'm playing with my computer?' 'The guy talks to me and he's walking with his computer,' Trump said of his youngest child, his only child with first lady Melania. 'These guys are genius. You know, they grow up, it's like walking,' Trump said of younger generations growing up with technology. 'But he's looking at me. I could have given them their healthcare site, he would have done it for nothing and it would have been better than what they have. For nothing.' 'Come on dad, I'm busy, dad. What do you want? What do you want, dad?' Trump went back to the imitation voice. 'Barron,' he smiled, thinking of his son. The crowd then began chanting the 13-year-old first-son's name, which pleased the president. 'Woah, Barron. Woah. Wow. He's going to like that. He's a good boy. He's a tall boy, I'll tell you that. Just turned 13. He's up there,' the president praised. 'I said, 'Hi Barron, how ya doing?' the president, who claims to be 6ft 3in, said, looking up as though his Barron was towering over his shoulder. Barron appears in photos to be just as tall, or even taller than his father. He rarely makes public appearances, unlike his older siblings. Barron has been seen recently towering over Trump as they traveled between Washington D.C. and Mar-a-Lago during vacations.   
