trump
{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:08, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8030569/Ivanka-Trump-enjoys-lunch-date-three-year-old-son-Theodore-White-House.html }
Ivanka Trump spent some quality one-on-one time with her youngest son Theodore while they enjoyed a lunch date at the White House on Friday afternoon.  The 38-year-old first daughter took to Instagram to share a photo herself dining with her three-year-old son at the White House Mess, a small restaurant run by the U.S. Navy.  Little Theodore, who turns four next month, looked thrilled to be sitting across from his mom at the dining facility, which is only open to senior White House officials and their guests. In the snapshot, Theodore has on a patriotic navy sweater with an American flag emblem and red pants as he gives the camera an open-mouth smile.  Ivanka is sitting across from him in a cornflower blue sweater and a matching patterned silk scarf wrapped around her neck.  The White House senior adviser's blonde hair is pulled back into a messy ponytail, and her face appears to be makeup-free aside from a swipe of shiny lip gloss.   'Lunch Date!' she captioned the snapshot.  Ivanka was also feeling a bit nostalgic, and earlier in the day, she shared a 'Flashback Friday' glamour shot of herself that was taken when she was pregnant with Theodore.   She posed for the black and white photo for the February 2016 issue of Town & Country magazine, which featured a shot of her cradling her baby bump on the cover.  In the image, she is wearing a black A-line dress and resting her elbows on her knees, hiding her growing stomach. She looks pensive as she looks away from the camera while holding a paper coffee cup.   'Friday Morning Mood [hot beverage emoji] #FBF,' she captioned the image. Ivanka also shared both photos on her Instagram Stories to ensure her 5.6 million followers didn't miss them.  On Friday morning, the first daughter was seen leaving her Washington, D.C. home in a Secret Service vehicle straight from her garage around 9:45 a.m.  Her hair was down at the time, and she could be seen chatting on her cellphone in the back seat of the SUV as it pulled away.  Ivanka's low-profile exit was a far cry from the fashionable display she put on Thursday morning when stepped out of the front gate of her home wearing a $1,850 floral satin dress by Etro.  She paired her frock with Manolo Blahnik nude PVC cap-toe pumps and dangly gold and pearl earrings.  Around the same time she headed to work, Ivanka honored her mother Ivana's 71st birthday with a sweet tribute on Thursday. She posted throwback photos of herself with her mother, including a glamorous snapshot of Ivana skiing in a sparkly silver onesie.  'Happy birthday Mama!' Ivanka captioned the images, which were taken when she was just a little girl.  
