{ By Justin Enriquez For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:52, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8030707/Brad-Pitt-LA-seen-time-President-Trump-SLAMMED-him.html }
President Donald Trump took a swipe at him just a day before. But Brad Pitt didn't seem too bothered by the Commander-in-Chief's comments. The 56-year-old Oscar-winning actor was out in Los Angeles on Friday as he was seen for the first time since Trump called him a 'little wise guy.' Scroll down for video  He did not appear to be too upset about the slight as he enjoyed a relaxed day in sunny Southern California. Pitt sported a green knit sweater featuring a gradient design and trees on the back with baggy ripped jeans and light brown suede Chelsea boots. He accessorized with a green baker boy cap and sunglasses on the solo stroll. Just the previous evening, Donald Trump was at a rally at the Broadmoor World Arena in Colorado on Thursday where he took a dig at the actor in addition to South Korean film Parasite which recently won Best Picture at the Academy Awards. 'I was never a big fan of his,' Trump said. 'He got up, said a little wise guy thing. He’s a little wise guy.'  Trump was obviously retaliating to Pitt's Best Supporting Actor acceptance speech at The Oscars earlier this month in which he used his platform to complain about the impeachment trial.  Pitt, while collecting the award for his role in Once Upon A Time in Hollywood, complained that former national security adviser John Bolton did not testify at President Trump's impeachment trial. 'They told me I only had 45 seconds up here, which is 45 seconds more than the Senate gave John Bolton this week. 'I'm thinking maybe Quentin (Tarantino) does a movie about it and in the end the adults do the right thing,' he said. It was Brad's first ever Oscar for acting  as he had previously won a Best Picture award as a producer for 12 Years A Slave in 2013. He beat out heavy competition for the honour, including Tom Hanks (A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood), Anthony Hopkins (The Two Popes), Al Pacino (The Irishman), and Joe Pesci (The Irishman). The end of his speech featured a dedication to his six children, Maddox, 18, Pax, 16, Zahara, 15, Shiloh, 13, Vivienne, 11, and Knox, 11, whom he with ex-wife Angelina Jolie: 'This is for my kids who color everything I do. I adore you.' Once Upon A Time In Hollywood tells the story of TV star Rick Dalton (Leonardo) and his longtime stunt double Cliff Booth (Brad), who make their way around an industry they hardly recognize anymore.     
