trump
{ By Associated Press and James Mills for MailOnline   Published:  12:59, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042283/Hillary-Clinton-Will-support-Sanders-nominated-Dems.html }
Hillary Clinton says she will back whoever wins the Democratic leadership contest - even if it's Bernie Sanders. The former Secretary of State says her priority is defeating President Donald Trump and would support Sanders even though she has said 'nobody likes him.' Clinton was speaking at the Berlin film festival today where she is promoting the four-hour 'Hillary' documentary, due out in March, in which she slates Sanders. She said: 'I'm going to wait and see who we nominate.  'I will support the nominee, and it won´t surprise you to hear me say that I think that it's imperative that we retire the incumbent.'  Clinton beat Sanders for the Democratic nomination ahead of the 2016 election, which she lost to Trump. Sanders was criticized for staying in the 2016 contest after it was clear Clinton would be the nominee - along with his attacks on her and his reluctance to endorse - resulted in many Democrats believing he damaged her candidacy as she went into the general election against Donald Trump.  She addresses Sanders in the documentary, saying: 'He was in Congress for years. He had one senator support him.  'Nobody likes him, nobody wants to work with him, he got nothing done. He was a career politician. It's all just baloney and I feel so bad that people got sucked into it.'  In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter to promote 'Hillary' last month she couldn't bring herself to say she'd support Sanders in the 2020 contest. 'I'm not going to go there yet,' she said. 'We're still in a very vigorous primary season. I will say, however, that it's not only him, it's the culture around him. It's his leadership team. It's his prominent supporters.' She went on to blast his supporters - known as 'Bernie Bros' - for their attacks on women. 'It's his online Bernie Bros and their relentless attacks on lots of his competitors, particularly the women,' Clinton said. 'And I really hope people are paying attention to that because it should be worrisome that he has permitted this culture — not only permitted, [he] seems to really be very much supporting it.' The four-hour 'Hillary' will premiere in its entirety March 6 on Hulu. 
