trump
{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:11, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030495/Mike-Bloomberg-RELEASES-women-signed-gag-orders-debate-pummeling.html }
Mike Bloomberg announced Friday that his company would let three former female employees out of their non-disclosure agreements should they want to make public their stories about working for him.   'Bloomberg LP has identified 3 NDAs signed over the past 30+ years with women to address complaints about comments they said I had made,' the 2020 hopeful tweeted. 'If any of them want to be released from their NDAs, they should contact the company and they'll be given a release.' Going forward, he also announced that his company would no longer use silencing agreements when there are accusations of sexual harassment or misconduct. 'I recognize that NDAs, particularly when they are used in the context of sexual harassment and sexual assault, promote a culture of silence in the workplace and contribute to a culture of women not feeling safe or supported,' Bloomberg said. 'It is imperative that when problems occur, workplaces not only address the specific incidents, but the culture and practices that led to those incidents. And then leaders must act.'   Bloomberg's flip-flop on letting ex-employees out of these contracts came after new polling showed his favorability rating dropped a net 20 points after Wednesday night's debate, according to a survey from Morning Consult.  Bloomberg was taken on by Elizabeth Warren on the Las Vegas debate stage for keeping these contracts intact. She continued to keep the narrative in the news by appearing at a CNN town hall Thursday night with a document in hand, putting her skills as a contract law professor to use.  'And I thought I would make this easy,' Warren told CNN's Erin Burnett. 'I wrote up a release and a covenant not to sue. And all that Mayor Bloomberg has to do is download it - I'll text it - sign it. And then the women, or men, will be free to speak and tell their own stories,' Warren added, as the audience laughed.  Then, ever playing the Harvard Law professor, Warren read the relevant parts:  'Bloomberg and the company release any and all obligations contained in any agreement, including but not limited to, any employment settlement, severance, or non-disclosure agreement between Bloomberg and/or the company and any other person to the extent those obligations preclude the other person from disclosing information relating to sexual harassment, discrimination, or other misconduct at the company or by Bloomberg himself,' she said. 'Under this release, it is now the other person's choice to disclose such information or not.'  On Friday, Bloomberg did not release a copy of the language that the three women could sign should they choose to be released from those contracts.   'I think that the mayor should sign this and that we all have a right to see,' Warren said of ehr version.  On Wednesday, as soon as Warren got onstage with the billionaire - who was making his Democratic debate debut - she attacked him for names he had previously called women.  'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians. And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg,' Warren said Wednesday night. A little later on, Warren was on Bloomberg again, this time for the DNAs.  'None of them accuse me of doing anything other than maybe they didn't like a joke I told,' Bloomberg said one point, with the audience reacting with audible gasps.   On Thursday, Warren explained to CNN's Erin Burnett that it was the power dynamic that should be considered.         She pointed to how much courage it would take, as an employee, to stand up to the boss, especially one as moneyed as Bloomberg, who's currently worth $63.7 billion, according to Forbes.  'You've got to admit, that takes a lot to be able to do that, and that the consequence of it is he dumps some money on it and then stuffs a gag in the woman's mouth,' Warren said. 'If he's not willing to remove those gags and let those women and maybe those men talk, then he is disqualified from being president of the United States.'   On Thursday, at an event in Salt Lake City, Bloomberg had tried to simply brush off the bruises he took during the debate.  'So how was your night last night?' Bloomberg said to laughs, adding that he thought President Trump was the 'real winner' of the debate. He didn't bring up any of Warren's specific qualms, with his name-calling, nor the NDAs.  But in a statement on his campaign website Friday, Bloomberg said he had been doing a lot of 'reflecting on the issue.'   '[A]nd I've decided that for as long as I'm running the company, we won't offer confidentiality agreements to resolve claims of sexual harassment or misconduct going forward,' he announced.  Bloomberg also pledged to support the 'Be Heard Act,' a piece of legislation that was introduced by Democrats in the House and Senate last spring that revamps federal harassment laws.    'When we share a respect for each other and treat all of our colleagues as we ourselves would wish to be treated, we all do our best work,' Bloomberg wrote. 'This is something Donald Trump does not understand - not when he ran his business, and not now when he is recklessly running our country.'  'I will be a leader whom women can trust,' he said.  The Morning Consult survey showed that 61 per cent of Democratic primary voters had a favorable opinion of Bloomberg before the debate, while 25 per cent held an unfavorable view.  The survey dropped Friday showed that now 52 per cent of Democrats view Bloomberg favorably, while 35 per cent dislike him - a net negative 20 per cent change.   There isn't much of a gender gap either.  He dropped 21 points among male Democrats and negative-18 with women.  He also lost a little ground with Nevada voters, who will caucus on Saturday. Bernie Sanders leads in Nevada with 30 per cent support. He's up two points after Wednesday's debate.  He's followed by Bloomberg who sits at 17 per cent support. Before the debate Bloomberg was in second place with 20 per cent support.  Now he's in third place behind Joe Biden who saw no change from before the debate and has 19 per cent support of Nevada Democrats.  Bloomberg is not truly participating in the Nevada caucuses, nor South Carolina's primary, scheduled for a week from Saturday. Instead he's focusing his fortune on the 14 states that vote on so-called 'Super Tuesday,' March 3.  His presence was felt Friday, however, while President Trump and his supporters gathered at the Las Vegas convention center for a 'Keep America Great' rally. Bloomberg had paid for billboards on the iconic Las Vegas strip that read 'Donald Trump lost the popular vote' and 'Donald Trump cheats at golf.'   
