{ By Carly Stern For Dailymail.com and Isabella Nikolic For Mailonline and Ap   Published:  17:25, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8029411/Lauren-Bush-Lauren-campaigns-brother-Pierce-Texas-congressional-race.html }
Lauren Bush Lauren headed town to Texas this week to campaign for her brother Pierce Bush, who is running for congress in Texas. Pierce, the 33-year-old grandson of former President George H.W. Bush and nephew of former President W. Bush, announced in December that her would seek to replace the departing Republican incumbent Pete Olson in the 22nd Congressional District — and signaled his support for President Donald Trump and his policies. Lauren, 35, backed Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential race — but put her family first this week when she and mother Sharon Bush helped work on Pierce's campaign. Lauren shared several photos from the visit on Thursday, including a shot of her and mom Sharon posing in matching 'Pierce Bush for Congress' T-shirts. 'Proud of my brother Pierce and his race for Congress to represent the 22nd district of TX,' she wrote. 'From poll greeting to making phone calls — it has been fun to see democracy at work the past few days! And it has been a wonderful reminder that every vote really does count.' She also shared a snap of Sharon doing paperwork in the campaign office, and another of Pierce hunkering down at his laptop. Sharon shared a few photos as well, including snaps of her and Lauren campaigning outside early voting locations in Houston ahead of the March 3 primary. They're shown holding up campaign signs with Lauren's two sons, four-year-old James and one-year-old Max, in tow. Lauren's move to throw her support behind her brother comes despite some seeming ideological differences.  When Pierce announced that he would seek the Republican nomination, he aligned himself with President Trump. 'When you look at the alternative first of all, how can you be anything but a supporter of the president's policies?' he said in an interview with the AP. 'I look forward to being a partner in Washington, and speaking of course with my own voice, but supporting the president's agenda.'  In a video announcement, he also decried philosophies being espoused by leading Democrats. 'We face a very challenging time in our nation. And we're on the brink of losing a generation to an idea that socialism and free stuff are the answers for their future. But we all know that socialism has failed everywhere and everyone,' he said. 'It's time for new leaders to stand for conservatism that empowers all Americans.'     But Lauren sways in the other political direction, and in the 2016 election, she backed former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. In October of that year, she took to Instagram to post a photo of Clinton, captioning it: #ImWithHer. The public endorsement was an especially big deal for Lauren, who, unlike most of her political dynasty family, isn't outspoken about politics. Back in 2008, she hinted that she might be voting blue, but refused to confirm either way. 'I think this election is very exciting,' she told The Cut, while Clinton and Obama were still going head-to-head in the primaries. 'I mean, to have a woman and a black man as leading candidates is pretty amazing, and it’s about time.' When pressed on whether she'd vote Democrat, she demurred, saying: 'I’m going to vote for the candidate — I’m not going to vote for someone … you know … you have to look at the whole picture. 'My family isn’t … Yeah, I’d say my vote is in the air. I don’t want to talk about it.' Her family, though, very much did talk about the 2016 election with her grandfather, former President George H.W. Bush, voting for Clinton — and calling Trump a 'blowhard.' 'I don't like him. I don't know much about him, but I know he's a blowhard. And I'm not too excited about him being a leader,' he said.  Meanwhile, his son, President George W. Bush, didn't vote for either Trump or Clinton but instead left that part of the ballot blank — and also had some words for Trump. 'This guy doesn't know what it means to be president,' he said, according to the book The Last Republicans. 'You can either exploit the anger, incite it, or you can come up with ideas to deal with it,' he added, seemingly indicating that Trump does the first two things but not the latter. But Pierce said that his own families politics don't matter, and that he's focused on what locals believe.  'This is not about my family. This is about the families of the 22nd Congressional District,' he said. His first run for office won't be easy. Bush joins one of the nation's most crowded congressional races of 2020 in his bid to replace Republican Rep. Pete Olson, who is retiring from his suburban Houston district that Democrats nearly flipped last year and are aggressively targeting again. At least one of of Bush's rivals in the race considered him unwelcome.  Greg Hill, a former Border Patrol agent who is also running as a Republican, expressed respect for the Bush family in a statement but said he had 'strong doubts about any candidate who would try to parachute into our district and buy this seat.'  Pierce, whose father is Neil Bush, has spent the past three years as chief executive of the nonprofit Big Brothers Big Sisters in Texas.  He made no mention of Trump in his announcement video and launched his campaign website with only a short biography and no positions on issues or policies. But Pierce told AP the impeachment hearings that at the time were still unfolding against Trump in Congress were a distraction, and he did not directly answer when asked whether he believed Trump had done anything improper. 'It's an attack-at-all-costs politics,' Bush said of the impeachment case. 'It's a part of the problem.' The only Bush currently in public office, Texas Land Commissioner George P. Bush, broke with his family in 2016 and supported Trump even after he mocked his father, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, as 'low energy' during the 2016 presidential campaign.  During a visit to Texas earlier this year, Trump introduced George P. Bush as 'the only Bush that likes me.' Olson is one of six House Republicans in Texas retiring next year, and he might have faced a tougher re-election battle than any of them. Once a seat of GOP power — former Republican House Majority Leader Tom DeLay held the office before Olson — the district is rapidly shifting amid demographic changes and Democrats peeling off suburban women voters. Olson narrowly won his seat by fewer than five points in 2018. The district covers Fort Bend County, one of the most ethnically diverse counties in the nation. 'The future of America looks like this district,' Bush said. 'This is a district where a conservatism that empowers all Americans is something that's worth fighting for.'  
