{ By Ryan Fahey For Mailonline   Published:  16:48, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8029661/Mobster-obsessed-1-000-Yeezy-shoes-shouts-lies-no-more.html }
An eastern European mobster with an obsession for Yeezys lashed out at a prosecutor during his sentencing yesterday and accused the lawyer of lying.  Aleksey Tsvetkov, 41, a convicted gangster and top-level member of a South Brooklyn-based criminal empire, shouted 'there are so many lies,' as the judge handed him 16-and-a-half year sentence for his 2018 racketeering conviction. Tsevtkov shouted at Assistant US Attorney Andrey Spektor 'I can’t take these lies anymore!' and accusing the prosecutor of misleading jurors.  He also accused Spektor of cutting deals with other gangsters so they would inform on him to get less time inside.  This is not the first time that Spektor has accused the US justice system of not playing fair.  Shortly after his conviction for racketeering in 2016,  Tsvetkov, who was born in Ukraine, wrote a letter to Judge Brian Cogan claiming his jurors were anti-Russian.   He also said his case was politically motivated, suggesting the move to prosecute him was directly linked to Donald Trump taking the presidency.  Cogan cited Tsvetkov’s violent history as he handed him the stretch, the New York Post reported.  'You have a violent, angry streak that’s been there your whole life,' Cogan said.      Tsvetkov was convicted with co-defendant Leonid 'Lenny' Gershman, 37, in August 2018 for racketeering, illegal gambling, loansharking, extortion, arson and marijuana distribution, after a three-week trial. Prosecutors proved that the pair had been following orders from the former Soviet Union from 2011 to May 2017 for their criminal operations in Brooklyn, New York. They were also found to have run a massive illegal poker ring that made them up to $800,000 every night.   'Members of the criminal syndicate were linked to high-level members of Russian organized crime known as “thieves in law”', federal prosecutors in New York said in a statement. 'The “Thieves” authorized syndicate members to use violence to protect their criminal activities.' During the trial, a number of methods they used to keep both their associates and rivals in check were uncovered.   In Spring 2016, they instructed two others - both of whom testified at the trial - to set a Sheepshead Bay building on fire because they were running a rival gambling ring. Two residents were injured in the fire - including a 12-year-old boy. Prosecutors also showed how the pair used the proceeds from their criminal activities to fund their lavish lifestyles. One witness shared how Gershman owned a pair of grey Yeezy sneakers with a hefty price tag of $1500 - as made evident in a 2016 photo of the mobster. Witnesses also shared that the two defendants had a love for lavish vehicles. Tsvetkov drove a Porsche while his accomplice drove a BMW M5.  The two also tended to sport luxurious watches including brands Piaget, Rolex and Hublot.  Evidence revealed that Gershman worked with the bosses in Russia to track down the father of a man who was extorted out of more than $40,000.  'Thieves have found him . . . in Israel,' he is said to have said on a wire tap. 'They were at [his] place today.' Surveillance video also showed an August 2016 altercation where Tsvetkov brutally attacked a man and put him 'to sleep' outside of a Aces Auto Bodyshop in Gravesend.  The two also pistol-whipped another victim and shattered his teeth. All for supposedly stealing cannabis from their stash house.    'Today’s verdicts hold Gershman and Tsvetkov responsible for years of using intimidation, violence and their association with Russian organized crime to inflict crimes on our local communities, including carrying out beatings in broad daylight and committing arson in the dead of night, endangering the lives of tenants and New York City firefighters,' said United States Attorney Brooklyn Donoghue.         
