{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:16, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8029227/Sanders-says-Trump-chew-Bloomberg-spit-disastrous-debate-performance.html }
Sen. Bernie Sanders said he was surprised that former New York City Mayor Michael Blooomberg came into Wednesday night's Democratic debate so unprepared to answer questions about his record that had been previewed in media reports.  'Yes, I was, I was,' Sanders answered when posed the question by Anderson Cooper, for a '60 Minutes' interview that will air this weekend. 'And if that's what happened in the Democratic debate, you know, I think it's quite likely that Trump will chew him up and spit him out.'  CNN's Cooper asked Sanders if he was less worried about the threat of Bloomberg now that the ex-mayor - who has so far run his presidential campaign by television commercial and in states not voting yet - had been deflated a bit.  Sanders didn't answer the question head on.  He, instead, talked about the enormous amount of money Bloomberg is spending to play catch-up in the race.  FEC reports indicate that Bloomberg spent an average of $7 million per day in January.   The former mayor had originally decided not to run for president, but sensing that the field lacked a clear frontrunner - in part because former Vice President Joe Biden seemed weak - he jumped in around Thanksgiving 2019. For comparison, Sanders kicked off his own presidential campaign a year ago Wednesday.  'I am worried about an unprecedented amount of money being spent on a campaign,' Sanders said. 'We've never seen anything like this in American history and I just think, though, that the American people will rebel against this type of oligarchic movement.'  'We are a democracy - one person, one vote - not a guy worth $60 billion, buying an election,' the democratic socialist added.   Forbes currently puts Bloomberg's net worth at $63.7 billion.  Bloomberg's worst moments on the Democratic debate stage Wednesday night were only tangentially connected to his money.  Sen. Elizabeth Warren opened up the debate by going after Bloomberg for doggish comments he's made about women - and then later company non-disclosure agreements he's refused to let female former employees out of.  'I'd like to talk about who we're running against, a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians,' Warren said. 'And no I'm not talking about Donald Trump, I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg.'  When she went after Bloomberg on the NDAs, he responded, 'None of them accuse me of doing anything other than maybe they didn't like a joke I told.'  The audience gasped.   The Bloomberg campaign, for its part, spun his debate performance as a warm-up act. And they pointed to the moment where Bloomberg called Sanders about for being the country's best-known 'socialist,' but still owning three houses.  To that Sanders bellowed, 'I work in Washington, house one. Live in Burlington, house two. And like thousands of other Vermonters, I have a summer camp. Which tax haven is your home?'   
