trump
{ By Ryan Fahey For Mailonline   Published:  11:28, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8028731/Mystery-Sammy-Davis-Jrs-hug-Richard-Nixon-revealed.html }
Sammy Davis Jr. hugged former President Richard Nixon at a campaign rally because he was going to 'alleviate' the burden of the singer's tax bill, it has been claimed. Clarke Peters, who played Lester Freamon in HBO's The Wire, has been delving into the musician's past for an upcoming musical he's directing about Davis called 'Sammy' at the Lyric Hammersmith Theatre in London.  In the middle of a Youth Rally performance in Miami, shortly after Nixon was reelected as the Republican's presidential candidate in 1972, Davis Jr introduced the president and hugs him from behind. The motivation behind Davis Jr's embrace has long been the source of mystery and acted as an additional reason for black Americans to turn against him.  'From what I hear, and I’m still trying to get to the bottom of it, he owed a lot of money in back taxes that Nixon was supposed to have found a way to alleviate. I would hug him too, you know what I am saying?,' Peters told the Times.    Davis was already a controversial personality who irked the community when he converted to Judaism and for having relationships mainly with white women. He was also suspected of rubbing shoulders with mobsters.    Peters added he was hoping to use the play to put Davis Jr's actions in context and to allow the audience to 'draw their own conclusions'.  His support of Nixon in the 1970s enraged people who saw the Republican as having rolled back the tide of progress implemented by his predecessor Lyndon B. Johnson.  According to the Martin Luther King Jr. Institute at Stanford University: 'Nixon reversed some of the social and economic welfare policies of predecessor Lyndon B. Johnson, vetoing new health, education, and welfare legislation.   'Seeking southern support for the Republican Party, Nixon supported anti-busing legislation and favored “law and order” policies that were widely seen as directed against black militancy.'  Unknown at the time, Nixon also regularly used racist epithets in private conversation.   'We’re going to (place) more of these little N**ro b****rds on the welfare rolls at $2,400 a family,' Nixon once said about what he saw as lax work requirements.  Peters said he is trying to 'redeem' Davis from being cast out as an 'Uncle Tom' or 'just a black Jew', for his relationship with the president.            Peters, the acclaimed actor and director, who starred as Albert 'Big Chief' Lambreaux in Treme, compared Davis and Nixon to the current presidential love-affair between Donald Trump and rapper Kanye West.  West will always remain a 'pariah' until we know what's going on his head, Peters said.  'Kind of the way Sammy was when he hugged Nixon. When we find out more about him you say: "Oh, maybe that’s why he did it,"' he added.            Davis and Nixon first crossed paths when the former was invited to the White House on July 1, 1971, to accept a role on the National Advisory Council on Economic Opportunity.  Nixon later sent the singer to Vietnam to perform for US troops and invited him to a White House reception in 1973.    According to timeline, Davis saw the relationship with Nixon as an opportunity to advocate for issues faced by black Americans.  'When my wife, Altovise, and I were invited to the White House after the November elections, I repeated [my recommendations],' he told Ebony.    According to a book written by Sammy's daughter Tracey Davis in 2016, his greatest humiliation was at the hands of President John Kennedy - who refused to let him perform at his inauguration because Sammy had married a white woman, Swedish actress May Britt.             
