trump
{ By Associated Press   Published:  10:23, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8028585/10-Things-Know-Today--21-February-2020.html }
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. INTEL OFFICIALS: RUSSIA BOOSTING TRUMP CANDIDACY The warning raises questions about the integrity of the presidential campaign and whether the Trump administration is taking the proper steps to combat the kind of interference that the U.S. saw in 2016. 2. SOUTH KOREA UPS EMERGENCY RESPONSE China´s neighbor reports 100 new virus cases, bringing the country's total to over 200 while Seoul bans rallies in major downtown areas in efforts to fight the outbreak. 3. GRIEF, ANGER AND CALLS FOR ACTION IN GERMANY Thousands gather in cities across the country to hold vigils for the nine victims of a racially motivated shooting, amid growing calls for authorities to crack down on far-right extremism. 4. IRANIANS HEAD TO THE POLLS They are voting for a new parliament, with turnout seen as a key measure of support for the Islamic Republic´s leadership as sanctions weigh on the economy and isolate the country diplomatically. 5. BLOOMBERG STRUGGLING IN #METOO ERA The billionaire was caught flat-footed during much of this week´s debate when rival Elizabeth Warren blasted his company's use of non-disclosure agreements in cases of sexual harassment. A clerk wearing a face mask talks with a customer through the doors of a stock brokerage which was closed except for limited transactions conducted through the glass of its front doors in Beijing, Friday, Feb. 21, 2020. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street lower Friday after a spike in new virus cases in South Korea refueled investor anxiety about China's disease outbreak. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein) 6. POLITICAL CLIMATE CHANGES IN NEVADA California transplants have brought their politics with them and a tech boom has drawn the young and college-educated, demographic groups that lean left as do Hispanics. 7. WRESTLER ADDS TO ABUSE ALLEGATIONS Olympian Andy Hrovat accuses a University of Michigan doctor of touching him inappropriately during medical exams at the school in the late 1990s. 8. `IT'S ONE OF THOSE ICONIC ARTIFACTS´ A salvage firm wants to recover the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Machine that transmitted the Titanic´s increasingly frantic distress calls. 9. TRUMP NOT A FAN OF 'PARASITE' The president complained that the Oscar winner for best picture was made in South Korea, prompting the U.S. distributor of the film to shoot back on Twitter that Trump would have trouble reading the subtitles. 10. US WOMEN SOCCER PLAYERS SUE FOR EQUAL PAY Players on the national team are seeking more than $66 million in damages as part of their gender discrimination lawsuit against the U.S. Soccer Federation. Ukrainian riot police prepare to push back protesters, who planned to stop buses carrying passengers evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan, outside Novi Sarzhany, Ukraine, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Several hundred residents in Ukraine's Poltava region protested to stop officials from quarantining the evacuees in their village because they feared becoming infected. Demonstrators put up road blocks and burned tires, while Ukrainian media reported that there were clashes with police, and more than 10 people were detained. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) Democratic presidential candidate and former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg gestures as he speaks during campaign event, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020, in Salt Lake City. (AP Photo/Rick Bowmer) A protester does a handstand while security forces close the site of the protest during clashes in downtown Baghdad, Iraq, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed) Voters pose for a selfie during the parliament elections at a polling station in Tehran, Iran, Friday, Feb. 21, 2020. Iranians began voting for a new parliament Friday, with turnout seen as a key measure of support for Iran's leadership as sanctions weigh on the economy and isolate the country diplomatically. (AP Photo/Ebrahim Noroozi) A young boy reaches to touch a moon jellyfish in the Living Seashore exhibit at the National Aquarium, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020, in Baltimore. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Ajax's Nicolas Tagliafico kicks the ball during a 1st leg, round of 32, of the Europa League soccer match between Getafe and Ajax at the Coliseum Alfonso Perez stadium in Getafe, outskirts of Madrid, Spain, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. (AP Photo/Bernat Armangue) A man sits in the cafe in downtown Belgrade, Serbia, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. (AP Photo/Darko Vojinovic) President Donald Trump speaks at a campaign rally Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020, in Colorado Springs, Colo. (AP Photo/David Zalubowski) 
