{ By Harry Howard For Mailonline   Published:  09:17, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8028303/Donald-Trump-tells-Colorado-rally-Bernie-Sanders-likely-Democratic-presidential-nominee.html }
Donald Trump told a rally crowd in Colorado Springs on Thursday that 'crazy' Sen Bernie Sanders is likely to be the presidential nominee for the Democrats.   Mr Trump mocked all of the Democratic candidates in a speech in which he also laid into the 2020 Academy Awards at the Broadmoor World Arena, which has a capacity of more than 8,000. Speaking of Sanders, Mr Trump said: 'It looks like Bernie doesn't it? It looks like crazy Bernie'.  He added: 'You’re going to vote for one of these people, probably crazy Bernie he seems to be leading.'  And in weighing in on the 78-year-old's rivals for the Democratic nomination, Mr Trump said former New York mayor Mike Bloomberg's performance in the debate on Wednesday night would cost him support.   He said: 'Mini Mike did not do well last night. He went way down. It's all right, Mini Mike.   'I was going to send him a note saying, "It's not easy doing what I do, is it?" 'I don't know. It's not easy Mike. It's not easy for any of them. No, Mike didn't do too well. He went way down.'  For the first time the President was also critical of Sen Amy Klobuchar, claiming that she 'choked'.  'How about Klobuchar? Did you see her? She choked. She choked. She couldn't breathe,' he said.  His jibe prompted the Klobuchar to hit back from her own campaign trail as she said it was a 'badge of honour' that 'the president is finally noticing that I'm running against him'.  The president also expressed confidence in his own campaign odds and said: 'I came president because of the debates, becuase unlike Mini Mike I could answer questions.' He also went on to criticise the decision to award the Academy Award for best picture to the South Korean film 'Parasite'.    'By the way, how bad were the Academy Awards this year? Did you see it?,' he said. 'And the winner is… a movie from South Korea,' Trump said, imitating those who announce category winners. 'What the hell was that all about?' Instead the 73-year-old president said he wishes the film industry would bring back movies like the 1940 classic 'Gone with the Wind' and 1950 film 'Sunset Boulevard.' 'The winner is… from South Korea,' Trump continued. 'I thought it was best foreign film. Best foreign movie. No, it was – did this ever happen before?' The film studio behind award-winning film Parasite clapped back at Trump shortly after he made the remarks. In response, film studio NEON shared a Tweet, insinuating that he was unable to enjoy the English subtitles from the movie. 'Understandable, he can't read,' the studio said in its brutal tweet. The President will hold another reelection rally for the third night in a row on Friday in Las Vegas – as Democrats prepare for the second-in-the-nation caucuses in Nevada on Saturday.  Mr Trump has reserved much of his fire for Mr Bloomberg, who entered the Democratic primary race in mid-November.  He swiftly rose in the rankings among the dwindling field of candidates as he used his own deep pockets to increase his exposure in a series of television and social media ads.    
