{ By Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  08:40, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8028201/US-concerns-Huawei-raised-Brexit-trade-talks-UK.html }
US concerns about the UK's decision to grant Huawei a role in building Britain's 5G network will be raised during Brexit trade talks between the two sides, it has been claimed. A delegation of US officials met with UK counterparts in Number 10 yesterday and reportedly made clear that the two issues could be linked.  A source told The Telegraph: 'The Americans impressed upon us that the free trade agreement is going to have to be part of this Huawei discussion.' However, Downing Street dismissed that version of events and said it was not true that the US delegation had said the Huawei row would have a bearing on trade negotiations.  Boris Johnson announced at the end of January that the Chinese tech giant would be granted a limited role in the UK's 5G network.  The decision sparked fury in the White House because the US administration has urged its allies not to do business with Huawei because of security concerns.  Those concerns have always been rejected by Huawei but the US has made clear that allowing the company a role will impact on intelligence sharing with the UK. The Huawei row is one of a number of points of conflict to have emerged between the UK and US in recent months.  And in a sign of potential tension between the two allies a widely-expected US visit by Mr Johnson in the spring has now reportedly been cancelled.  The PM spoke to Mr Trump last night and the pair agreed to see each other in June.  A Downing Street spokesman said: 'The Prime Minister and President Trump spoke this evening and discussed a range of bilateral and international issues. 'The leaders reiterated their commitment to the UK-US relationship and looked forward to seeing each other at the G7 Summit in the United States in June.'  It had been thought Mr Johnson could travel to the US in March to meet with Mr Trump.  Mr Johnson is facing a mounting backlash from his own MPs over the Huawei decision. Senior Tory figures have demanded ministers act on 'deadly serious' warnings from the US about restricting intelligence sharing.  Owen Paterson, the former Cabinet minister, said the government's attitude to the Chinese tech giant was 'incomprehensible' given White House opposition to using the firm.  Mr Paterson is one of many Conservative MPs who are urging Downing Street to reverse its backing for Huawei.  Mr Trump's acting chief of staff had crunch talks with Number 10 officials on Huawei yesterday.   Mick Mulvaney is understood to have led a delegation of US officials in a meeting with UK counterparts including Sir Edward Lister, one of Mr Johnson's top advisers.   The meeting came after Mr Mulvaney told an event on Wednesday night that the UK's 5G decision on Huawei will have a 'direct and dramatic impact' on intelligence sharing with the US.     
