{ By Lauren Edmonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:24, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027915/Eric-Holder-tells-reporter-shut-hell-one-Andrew-McCabes-federal-prosecutors.html }
Former Attorney General Eric Holder lashed out at a conservative journalist Wednesday, telling the reporter to 'shut the hell up' about donations a federal prosecutors allegedly made to Barack Obama.   Author and journalist Paul Sperry shared a tweet on Tuesday discussing Molly Gaston, the federal prosecutor in question, and the announcement that the investigation into former FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe was over.  McCabe was investigated by the federal government after he allegedly leaked information to a journalist in 2016. He soon became a target for President Trump and Republicans.  Trump felt McCabe and former director James Comey were unfairly targeting him.   Throughout the ordeal, McCabe and his lawyers vehemently denied any wrongdoing.  Sperry wrote: 'BREAKING: Molly Gaston, the asst. US Attorney who signed letter to McCabe's lawyer informing McCabe she was closing criminal case against him, is [a] Democrat who's given thousands to Dems including Obama & who once worked for Dem side of House Oversight & whose mother worked for WaPo.' Sperry suggests that charges against McCabe were not filed because of apparent political alignments.  In response, Holder called out Sperry for bias and said he does not have a real understanding of how the Department of Justice operates.  'Why don't you shut the hell up?' Holder said. 'Your bias is showing. I bet you've never been a prosecutor or have any idea how DOJ works. People like you-who want to use the justice system for political reasons-are both dangerous and ignorant. The case was-like you-an obvious loser.'  Holder's harsh comments did little to dissuade Sperry from continuing to tweet about Holder, Obama or the Department of Justice.  Sperry claims that both Obama and Holder were united under a 'racialist agenda' and that the government official politicized the Department of Justice while serving in his position.  He wrote: 'Talk about no firewall between the attorney general and president -- Holder was Obama's wingman and their wives were BFFs, all united in the same racialist agenda.'   'Eric Holder completely politicized DOJ so he has a lot of gall weighing in on this issue.' Holder's outburst and Sperry's remarks come after it was revealed the Department of Justice would not pursue criminal charges against McCabe.   McCabe was under investigation for nearly two years after he was accused of leaking information to a former Wall Street Journal reporter about Hillary Clinton's 2016 investigation.   The leak confirmed the Clinton probe's existence after former FBI director James Comey refused to publicly acknowledge it. Of the experience, McCabe told CNN: 'It was traumatic to leave the FBI, certainly in the way that I did, and that's been tough to live with.' 'The added insult and suspicion that comes with being under criminal investigation just made the entire experience a million times worse.' He then lambasted federal investigators for taking such a long time to make a formal decision on the case.  'It is an absolute disgrace that they took two years, and put my family through this experience for two years, before they finally drew the obvious conclusion and one they could have drawn a long, long time ago,' he said.  In a FBI report from Michael E. Horowitz, it said McCabe 'lacked candor' in conversations with Comey about the disclosure and with FBI agents when questioned about the leak on several occasions.  McCabe was fired by then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions in March 2018 after Inspector General found that he had repeatedly misrepresented his involvement in the 2016 leak.  
