{ By Hannah Skellern For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:48, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027675/He-different-idea-makes-man-Pete-Buttigieg-slams-Rush-Limbaugh-Ellen-DeGeneres.html }
Pete Buttigieg has lashed out at Rush Limbaugh's homophobic comments by slamming 'chest-pounding and loud-mouthed' men to Ellen DeGeneres. The Democratic presidential candidate responded to staunch Trump ally Limbaugh's criticism of him kissing his same-sex partner on stage – days after calling his remarks homophobic.  Limbaugh said Americans wouldn't elect the 38-year-old former South Bend mayor because of his displays of affection towards his husband of five years. Limbaugh also questioned how he would look beside 'Mr. Man Donald Trump'. When asked to respond to the remarks in an interview with Ellen DeGeneres airing on Friday, Buttigieg said being a 'chest-pounding and the loud-mouthed guy at the end of the bar' did not make you strong.  He pointed out that he was serving in the US Navy Reserve in Afghanistan when President Trump was a reality TV star in 2014. 'You know, when I was packing my bags for Afghanistan, Donald Trump was working on Season 7 of 'Celebrity Apprentice,' he said, drawing applause from the audience. 'I guess he just has a different idea of what makes a man than I do,' he said of Limbaugh.  Buttigieg shakes his head when DeGeneres brings up one of the comments made by Limbaugh, 69. 'OK, how's this going to look? 37-year-old gay guy kissing his husband on stage, next to Mr. Man, Donald Trump,' Limbaugh said on February 12 on his nationally syndicated radio show. Buttigieg hit back: 'I'm not going to take lectures on family values from the likes of Rush Limbaugh or anybody who supports Donald Trump, frankly. 'And since when is strength about the chest-pounding and the loud-mouthed guy at the end of the bar?' he added.  He goes on to joke: 'One of the strongest people I know is my husband, Brad Pitt' as his partner Chasten laughs in the audience.     Buttigieg has finished in the top two in Democrats' first two presidential contests in Iowa and New Hampshire.  This is the second time Buttigieg has addressed Limbaugh's comments. On Saturday he slammed them for being 'homophobic.'  'I am in a faithful, loving, committed marriage,' Buttigieg said in an interview with Fox News Sunday. 'I am saddened for what the Republican Party has become if they embrace that kind of homophobic rhetoric.'  Limbaugh's remarks were the latest tendentious turn in a career in which he's won an adoring audience among millions of conservative listeners, but condemnation from others for comments considered racist, sexist and offensive.  
