trump
{ By Lauren Edmonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:04, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027361/Illegal-immigrant-acquitted-murdering-Kate-Steinle-placed-mental-facility.html }
An illegal immigrant who was acquitted of murdering a woman on a California pier may be placed in a mental health facility after an evaluation found he was unfit to stand trial.  Jose Inez Garcia-Zarate, 48, has been ordered to undergo a second mental evaluation to officially determine the next course of action.     Last week, a U.S. District judge said Garcia-Zarate was not fit to stand trial for illegally possessing a firearm 'because of mental illness that is not presently being treated.'  He was accused of shooting dead 32-year-old Kate Steinle in the back as she walked along Pier 40 with her father and a family friend in San Francisco in 2015. He was convicted of a single charge of being a felon in possession of a gun in 2017, but the ruling was overturned in August 2019 by a California state appeals court.  The 1st District Court of Appeal argued that the presiding judge failed to give the jury the option of acquitting Garcia-Zarate on the theory he only possessed the weapon for a moment.  On Thursday, it was announced that Garcia-Zarate would undergo a second mental health evaluation and that he was 'likely to be restored to competency' if he resumed taking his medication.  The San Francisco Chronicle reports that U.S. District Judge Vince Chhabria said he does not believe he can force Garcia-Zarate, who has been in federal custody for three years, to take his medication. Chhabria also said Garcia-Zarate apparently does not believe he had been previously medicated.  Garcia-Zarate's lawyers believe he is already fit to stand trial, but say that if medical professionals 'determined that medication is what he needs, we’re all for that.' The new evaluation is scheduled to happen in the next 30 to 45 days. If Garcia-Zarate is found no competent to stand trial, he could potentially be held permanently in a mental institution run by the U.S. Bureau of Prisons.     The death of Steinle, which embroiled the nation in a contested immigration debate that evoked a strong response from President Donald Trump, happened in July 2015. Trump has since said he will deploy law enforcement tactical units to sanctuary cities in an effort to curb illegal immigration.  At that time, Garcia-Zarate had already been deported from the U.S. five times to Mexico and had just finished serving a nearly four-year federal prison sentence for illegal re-entry.   Immigration officials sent him to San Francisco to face a marijuana charge, but it was dropped by local prosecutors and he was released from custody due to the city's sanctuary policy.  The policy limits local authorities' cooperation with federal immigration agents.   According to Garcia-Zarate, he unintentionally picked up a gun wrapped in a t-shirt and accidentally fired the weapon. The bullet ricocheted off a concrete walkway and struck Steinle, who was with her dad and a family friend. His lawyers say that the gun was actually stolen from a federal agent's car by an unidentified person and did not belong to Garcia-Zarate.   Two years later, a Superior Court jury would acquit him of murder and manslaughter charges, but hold him accountable for the weapon charge.  In January 2019, Chhabria said Garcia-Zatara had previously been diagnosed with schizophrenia during a 2009 criminal proceeding in Texas and was prosecuted only after receiving medical treatment. He also said Garcia-Zarate was given medication while he was held at the Glenn Dyer Jail in Oakland, but the treatment was 'inexplicably terminated' when he was transferred to the Santa Rita Jail. The California court's handling of the high-profile case enraged several politicians and supporters of restricted immigration supporters.  Trump shared a series of November 2017 tweets after Garcia-Zarate's verdict was announced, calling it 'a complete travesty of justice.' In his tweets he drew a direct correlation to Steinle's death and Garcia-Zarate's appearance in the U.S. to a 'weakly protected Obama border.' 'The Kate Steinle killer came back and back over the weakly protected Obama border, always committing crimes and being violent, and yet this info was not used in court. His exoneration is a complete travesty of justice. BUILD THE WALL,' he wrote. 'The jury was not told the killer of Kate was a 7 time felon. The Schumer/Pelosi Democrats are so weak on Crime that they will pay a big price in the 2018 and 2020 Elections. 'A disgraceful verdict on the Kate Steinle case! No wonder the people of our Country are so angry with Illegal Immigration.'  Trump's eldest son, Don Jr., also weighed in on the verdict and echoed his father's sentiments.  He wrote: 'What a disgrace. Don’t let the rest of the country become California. If this isn’t a wake call up (sic) to reasonable and law abiding people I don’t know what is.' 'Liberals...and the general lack of common sense so prevalent amongst them.'   However, public defender Matt Gonzalez said the jury's verdict should hold. 'This jury's verdict should be respected,' Gonzalez said. The Center for Immigration Studies identified 10 states that are considered sanctuary cities, including: California, Colorado, Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon and Vermont. Of all the states, Oregon has the most sanctuary cities and totals to more than 30 locations. ‘These cities, counties, and states have laws, ordinances, regulations, resolutions, policies, or other practices that obstruct immigration enforcement and shield criminals from ICE,' the organization wrote.     'Either by refusing to or prohibiting agencies from complying with ICE detainers, imposing unreasonable conditions on detainer acceptance, denying ICE access to interview incarcerated aliens, or otherwise impeding communication or information exchanges between their personnel and federal immigration officers.' Trump has long blasted sanctuary cities for their push back against ICE and federal efforts.  Since coming into office, Trump has attempted to curb sanctuary cities immigration policies and, in his latest effort, will be deploying SWAT like personnel to several cities.   'They heard the evidence, they deliberated as a group, they heard read-back testimony, they looked at the physical evidence, and they rendered a verdict to the best of their abilities in accordance with the law.' Gonzalez took aim at Trump during his remarks, reminding the president that he was also under federal investigation and deserves the same due process.  This month, the Trump administration announced that they would be deploying law enforcement tactical units from the southern border to sanctuary cities in his latest efforts to punish local governments that refuse to cooperate with immigration enforcement. The law enforcement tactical units will be sent to several cities, including New York and Chicago, is an effort to boost the localized power of ICE. Agents are also expected to be sent to San Francisco, Los Angeles, Houston, Boston, Atlanta, New Orleans, Detroit and Newark, New Jersey, the New York Times reports. This announcement comes after the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security said they would enact a series of measures that would impact other immigrants and American citizens in those areas. The teams will be deployed from February to May, and will include agents from BORTAC – the tactical unit the U.S. Border Patrol that is equivalent to a SWAT team. Gil Kerlikowske, a former commissioner of the CBP said Trump’s new policy could spark unnecessary tensions and was a ‘significant mistake.’ He said: ‘If you were a police chief and you were going to make an apprehension for a relatively minor offense, you don’t send the SWAT team. And BORTAC is the SWAT team.’ According to the City and County of San Francisco, the area has been considered a sanctuary city in 1989 when it passed the 'City and County of Refuge' Ordinance. This ruled that City employees were prohibited from using city funds or resources to assist ICE agents in federal immigration laws. In 2013, San Francisco passed the  Due Process for All Ordinance, which limited local authorities ability to give ICE agents notice of a person's release from jail and cooperation with ICE detainer's requests.  Under current law, City employees cannot use city resources to:    
