trump
{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  03:36, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027359/Alec-Baldwin-kisses-wife-Hilaria-West-Story-Broadway-opening-blasting-Dem-candidates.html }
Oscar nominee Alec Baldwin passionately kissed his second wife Hilaria Thomas at the opening of the West Side Story revival at Broadway Theatre in Manhattan on Thursday. At 61, the New Jersey-born actor is 25 years older than the Spanish-born yogi, whom he wed seven years ago after meeting her at a restaurant back in 2011. Alec donned a grey suit over a baby-blue shirt and a striped black tie, while Hilaria toted a black-and-red Louis Vuitton bag and wore a long black coat over 'yoga pants.'   'I'm tired, my kids wanted to play with my hair...there may or may not be noodles in it,' Thomas - who boasts 752K Twitter/Instagram following - lamented via Insta-story. 'Still wearing my yoga pants...but I'm gonna go have some grown up time with Alec.' Luckily, the May-December duo employ a nanny to look after their big bilingual brood - daughter Carmen Gabriela, 6; son Rafael Thomas, 4; Leonardo Ángel, 3; and Romeo Alejandro, 21 months - during their date night at the theater. Baldwin also has a 24-year-old daughter Ireland from his nine-year marriage to Oscar winner Kim Basinger, which ended in 2002.   On Tuesday, the Daytime Emmy-winning correspondent recalled the first argument she had with the hot-tempered Saturday Night Live star, who had stormed off a red carpet leaving her behind to 'waddle' after him in her floral fishtail gown. 'It wasn't very dramatic, but I think it was my first Hilaria glare that I gave [Alec],' Hilaria wrote on Instagram. 'The photographer that took this photo was a super nice woman who printed it out for me and we have it hanging by our entry way. As a reminder for him to behave.' Thomas attends weekly therapy sessions in order to cope with the miscarriages she and Baldwin suffered last April and November, Insta-storying on February 7: 'I really needed to choose happiness in such a difficult time. And I needed to work very hard for it.'   On Wednesday night, the Motherless Brooklyn actor blasted the flawed Democratic presidential candidate hopefuls after watching NBC News' Nevada debate. 'Some Dem candidates have campaign finance issues, sexual harassment issues, credibility issues, cognitive issues, budget balancing issues. You put all those together...you've got [four more years of President Donald] Trump,' the three-time Golden Globe winner wrote to his 1M Twitter followers. 'Why is the bar so low regarding our hopes for the Presidency? One won't release his NDAs [regarding] sexual harassment. [One] is a campaign finance cheater. [Two] are compulsive liars about how they intend to pay for all of their promises. '[One] is struggling, after 8 [years] as VP to articulate his vision. We have a very simple job to do. To spend [money] on those things we have too long neglected - Infrastructure, debt, health care, and affordable housing. #MAKEAMERICASOLVENTAGAIN.'  It's unclear whether Alec will portray POTUS in the February 29th episode of the NBC sketch series, which will be hosted by former SNL writer John Mulaney with musical guest David Byrne. Baldwin will next interview Grammy-nominated hitmaker Butch Walker for the live version of his Here's the Thing podcast happening February 27 at the Catalina Bar & Grill in West Hollywood. And this week, Hilaria and her co-host Daphne Oz interview fitness expert Jillian Michaels for their four-month-old podcast Mom Brain, which is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, iHeartRadio, and Stitcher. 
