{ By Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com  and Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com    Published:  03:07, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027315/Film-studio-Parasite-slams-Trump-saying-film-not-won-Best-Picture.html }
The film studio behind award-winning film Parasite has slammed Donald Trump after he complained about it winning Best Picture at the Oscars.  During a rally at the Broadmoor World Arena in Colorado on Thursday, Trump lamented that he did not agree with the outcome of the Academy Awards after the South Korean film won Best Picture. 'By the way, how bad were the Academy Awards this year? Did you see it?' Trump asked rally-goers, and was met with wide-spread 'boos.'  'And the winner is… a movie from South Korea,' Trump said, imitating those who announce category winners. 'What the hell was that all about?'   In response, film studio NEON shared a Tweet, insinuating that he was unable to enjoy the English subtitles from the film. 'Understandable, he can't read,' the studio said in its brutal tweet.  Scroll down for video  During the rally, Trump continued: 'We got enough problems with South Korea with trade. On top of it they give them the best movie of the year,' he continued, admitting he did not see the movie. Parasite was filmed fully in Korean, but played with English subtitles in the U.S. 'Was it good? I don't know,' Trump said. Ten non-American films have won Best Picture, including: The Artist (2011), The King's Speech (2010), Slumdog Millionaire (2010) and the Last Emperor. Parasite is the first-ever foreign-language film to win the award.  In his speech on Thursday, Trump continued: 'The winner is… from South Korea. I thought it was best foreign film. Best foreign movie. No, it was – did this ever happen before?'  The 73-year-old president said he wishes the film industry would bring back American movies like the 1940 classic 'Gone with the Wind' and 1950 film 'Sunset Boulevard.' Sunset Boulevard lost Best Picture to All About Eve in 1950.  After the comments, Twitter users mocked Trump for wanting an 80-year old film to make a comeback.  And many noted that Hattie McDaniel, the actress who played 'Mammy' in Gone with the Wind and won an Oscar for the role, was not even allowed in the theater to accept her award back in 1940.  During the Colorado speech, Trump also criticized Brad Pitt after the actor made an impeachment jab during his acceptance speech for winning best supporting actor for 'Once Upon A Time... In Hollywood.' 'I was never a big fan of his,' Trump said. 'He got up, said a little wise guy thing. He’s a little wise guy.' Ten films have won Best Picture at the Oscars and have been entirely financed outside of the United States. They include:  Hamlet (1948) - United Kingdom  Tom Jones (1963) - United Kingdom A Man for All Seasons (1966) - U.K.  The Last Emperor (1987) - U.K.  Slumdog Millionaire (2008) - U.K.  The King's Speech (2010) - U.K.  The Artist (2011) - France  Parasite (2019) - South Korea  French movie 'The Artist' is a silent film.  Trump used the Democratic debate Wednesday as ammunition to rail against fellow billionaire Mike Bloomberg during the rally. 'I don't know if anybody watched last night's debate, it got very big ratings. And you know what? Mini Mike didn't do well last night,' he said to the room of thousands of supporters. 'I was going to send him a note saying, "It's not easy doing what I do, is it?"' Trump suggested. 'I don't know. It's not easy Mike. It's not easy for any of them. No, Mike didn't do too well. He went way down,' the president insisted. The two billionaire's are very different heights, with former New York City mayor standing at 5ft 7in and the president at 6ft 3in. The rally at Broadmoor World Arena, which has a capacity of more than 8,000, was held as part of a rare four-day campaign stint on the west coast as Democrats took their campaigns there with both a debate and the third primary contest. Trump didn't let his attention waver too far from the main point: attacking Democrats and the 'fake news,' The president claimed that Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar 'choked' Wednesday night and said her campaign died with her debate performance. 'Look, Bloomberg made a fool out of himself last night. He choked. He's another one who's going 'Oh, I can't breath. I can't breath. Don't ask me the question. Please,'' Trump mocked. Although many have claimed there were a few winners Wednesday night, there is widespread agreement that Bloomberg was the loser. The president held a rally in Phoenix, Arizona on Wednesday night as Democrats hosted their ninth primary debate in Las Vegas, Nevada around the same time. 
