trump
{ By Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com    Published:  00:54, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027077/Donald-Trump-uses-rally-rail-against-Democrats-suggesting-Mike-Bloomberg-cheap-spinoff.html }
Donald Trump struck a bunch of different notes Thursday night at his rally in Colorado Springs where he mocked the 'choking' Democrats before singling out his 'cheap spin-off' Mike Bloomberg and claiming Sen Amy Klobuchar's campaign is dead after her debate performance.  First he used the Democratic debate Wednesday as ammunition, specifically railing against fellow billionaire Bloomberg. 'I don't know if anybody watched last night's debate, it got very big ratings. And you know what? Mini Mike didn't do well last night,' he said to the room of thousands of supporters. 'I was going to send him a note saying, "It's not easy doing what I do, is it?"' Trump suggested. 'I don't know. It's not easy Mike. It's not easy for any of them. No, Mike didn't do too well. He went way down,' the president insisted. The two billionaire's are very different heights, with former New York City mayor standing at 5ft 7in and the president at 6ft 3in. The rally at Broadmoor World Arena, which has a capacity of more than 8,000, was held as part of a rare four-day campaign stint on the west coast as Democrats took their campaigns there with both a debate and the third primary contest.  Scroll down for video   The president claimed that Klobuchar 'choked' Wednesday night and said her campaign died with her debate performance. 'How about Klobuchar. Did you see her? She choked. She choked,' he said to a jeering crowd. 'She couldn't breath.' 'Alfred E. Neuman looked at her and says something slightly derogatory,' Trump said, using the character he has likened to former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg.  'And she said, "Are you accusing me of being dumb?" 'Who would make a statement like that?' the president questioned. 'Because that's really what he's doing, but he doesn't want to say that. No, no, how about that. "Are you saying I'm dumb?" That was the end of her campaign in my book. You don't say that. Even if it's true, you don't say that.'  The president was referencing one of the many contentious moments at the debate Wednesday where Buttigieg targeted Klobuchar on running on her experience but slammed her for not being able to name the president of Mexico when she was put on the spit. 'You are staking your candidacy on your Washington experience. You're on the committee that oversees border security, you're on the committee that does trade. You're literally in the part of the committee that's overseeing these things,' Buttigieg said. 'Are you mocking me here, Pete? I said I made a mistake,' Klobuchar shot back. At another point in the debate she went at Buttigieg again. 'I wish everyone was as perfect as you, Pete,' Klobuchar said, saying Buttigieg had done little more than memorize 'a bunch of talking points'. While Democrats face in-fighting as they compete for the party's nomination, they are also subject to daily attacks from the president.  Trump said Klobuchar wasn't the only one who 'choked,' bringing his attention back to Bloomberg. 'Look, Bloomberg made a fool out of himself last night. He choked. He's another one who's going, "Oh, I can't breath. I can't breath. Don't ask me the question. Please,"' Trump mocked. Although many have claimed there were a few winners Wednesday night, there is widespread agreement that Bloomberg was the loser.  The president held a rally in Phoenix, Arizona on Wednesday as Democrats hosted their ninth primary debate in Las Vegas, Nevada around the same time.  And the president will hold another reelection rally for the third night in a row on Friday in Las Vegas – as Democrats prepare for the second-in-the-nation caucuses in Nevada on Saturday. Bloomberg entered the Democratic primary race in mid-November, and swiftly rose in the rankings among the dwindling field of candidates as he used his own deep pockets to increase his exposure in a series of television and social media ads. The former New York City mayor immediately became one of Trump's favorite targets – and the president often bashes the fellow billionaire on Twitter, calling him 'mini Mike' in a hit to his height.  Trump's recent campaign strategy is not subtle, as he holds reelection rallies in the same states as Democrats are in for either debates or primary contests. Although Trump is facing virtually no real primary competition, he is still aiming for winning big and breaking records for voter and caucus turnout for an incumbent president. While Buttigieg took the victory for Democrats in Iowa, Sen Bernie Sanders emerged the winner in New Hampshire. Also during the Colorado event, Trump lamented that he did not agree with the outcomes of the Academy Awards after a foreign film won Best Picture. 'By the way, how bad were the Academy Awards this year? Did you see it?' Trump asked rally-goers, and was met with wide-spread 'boos.' 'And the winner is… a movie from South Korea,' Trump said, imitating those who announce category winners. 'What the hell was that all about?' 'We got enough problems with South Korea with trade. On top of it they give them the best movie of the year,' he continued, admitting he did not see the movie. Parasite was filmed fully in Korean, but played with English subtitles in the U.S. 'Was it good? I don't know,' Trump said.  Instead the 73-year-old president said he wishes the film industry would bring back movies like the 1940 classic 'Gone with the Wind' and 1950 film 'Sunset Boulevard.' 'The winner is… from South Korea,' Trump continued. 'I thought it was best foreign film. Best foreign movie. No, it was – did this ever happen before?' The film studio behind award-winning film Parasite clapped back at Trump shortly after he made the remarks.  In response, film studio NEON shared a Tweet, insinuating that he was unable to enjoy the English subtitles from the movie. 'Understandable, he can't read,' the studio said in its brutal tweet. 
