{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:28, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8026247/Trump-Pennsylvania-crushing-Dems-Wisconsin-Michigan-play.html }
New polling done in the three swing states that won President Trump the 2016 election show him losing to all six top Democrats in Pennsylvania, while beating every one of them in Wisconsin.  In Michigan, the Democrats are ahead of Trump, but barely - suggesting America's mitten is in play.  A new Quinnipiac University Poll dropped Thursday, as both the Democratic hopefuls and Trump are in full campaign mode.  Trump is hosting a series of rallies out west this week while the Democrats are vying for support in this Saturday's Nevada caucuses, before they move on to South Carolina for the first-in-the-south primary.  In Pennsylvania, the Quinnipiac poll shows former Vice President Joe Biden performing best against Trump.  In a hypothetical general election match-up, Biden wins 50 per cent of the vote to Trump's 42 per cent.  The next-best choice for Democrats to beat Trump in the Keystone State is Sen. Amy Klobuchar, who bests the president by 7 points. While former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg wins by 6 points against Trump.  Both Sen. Bernie Sanders and former South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg - who topped the contests in Iowa and New Hampshire - win against Trump by 4 points.  Sen. Elizabeth Warren, coming off a hot Las Vegas debate performance, still beats the president, but only by 3 points.  The margin of error for all three states polls was plus or minus 3.4 per cent. Biden could be getting a boost in Pennsylvania thanks to being born there - he's a native of Scranton - and because his adopted home state of Delaware shares the Philadelphia media market.  In Wisconsin, Trump is beating every Democrat soundly.  He crushes Klobuchar by 11 points and Warren by 10. Bloomberg and Buttigieg both lose to the sitting president by 8 points - 49 per cent to 41 per cent in both cases.  The best performances in the Badger State go to Biden and Sanders, who both lose by 7 points.  Trump receives 50 per cent to Sanders' 43 per cent, while he earns 49 per cent to Biden's 42 per cent support in the state.  In Michigan, Sanders and Bloomberg perform the best against Trump - each winning the state by a 5-point margin. Biden also gets above the margin-of-error, winning against Trump by 4 points.  Warren then squeaks by with a 2-point lead, while Klobuchar and Buttigieg only best Trump by a single percentage point in the Wolverine State.   
