trump
{ By Associated Press   Published:  11:33, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8041945/10-Things-Know-Today--25-February-2020.html }
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. `I´M SCARED OF CONTRACTING THE VIRUS´ Residents of the South Korean city of Daegu are struggling as they try to avoid the new virus, stocking up on food, while others avoid any kinds of public activities. 2. RIVAL CANDIDATES UNLOAD ON SANDERS No less than three of the Vermont senator´s rivals unleashed paid attack ads against him for the first time on the eve of a debate in South Carolina. 3. TRUMP GETS DOWN TO BUSINESS IN INDIA The U.S. president says he's optimistic about the prospects of inking a trade deal with India despite moves by both sides that created doubt; and there are more violent citizenship law protests in New Delhi. 4. FORMER EGYPTIAN LEADER DEAD AT 91 Hosni Mubarak, in power for almost three decades, was forced to resign in 2011 following Arab Spring uprisings that convulsed autocratic regimes across the Middle East. 5. HOW BLOOMBERG BUILT UP SUPPORT The billionaire´s spending on charity and politics has skyrocketed in recent years, giving him a foundation of connections and goodwill that is helping his nascent presidential campaign. A worker wearing protective gears sprays disinfectant as a precaution on a train against the new coronavirus at Suseo Railway Station in Seoul, South Korea, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. China and South Korea on Tuesday reported more cases of a new viral illness that has been concentrated in North Asia but is causing global worry as clusters grow in the Middle East and Europe. (Lee Ji-eun/Yonhap via AP) 6. UNION PROBE FINDS PLÁCIDO DOMINGO ABUSED POWER The opera legend says he´s "truly sorry" after an investigation found more than two dozen people who say they were sexually harassed or witnessed inappropriate behavior in Washington and Los Angeles. 7. WEINSTEIN CONVICTION VIEWED AS WATERSHED MOMENT Prosecutors are saying the verdict against the former film titan could change the way the legal system views a type of sexual assault case historically considered difficult to prove. 8. GLOBAL SHARES MOSTLY LOWER AFTER DOW PLUMMETS Shares open lower in Europe after a mixed session in Asia as Japan´s prime minister urges fresh efforts to contain the outbreak of a new virus that has spread to nearly three dozen countries. 9. `BETTER THAT WE DIE LAUGHING THAN TO DIE SCARED´ A Syrian man and his 3-year-old daughter have a unique way of dealing with the fear of exploding bombs, laughing and capturing the moments on social media as a coping mechanism. 10. IT´S FAT TUESDAY Revelers dressed in costumes and reaching for beads thrown from floats will take to the streets when Carnival season reaches its peak, marred by the deaths of two paradegoers in New Orleans. Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., speaks during First in the South Dinner, Monday, Feb. 24, 2020, in Charleston, S.C. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke) President Donald Trump and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi shake hands before their meeting at Hyderabad House, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020, in New Delhi, India. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) Harvey Weinstein arrives at a Manhattan courthouse as jury deliberations continue in his rape trial, Monday, Feb. 24, 2020, in New York. (AP Photo/John Minchillo) Two people wear masks as they visit the newly opened Japan Olympic Museum located near the New National Stadium, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020, in Tokyo. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong) New York Post reporter Rebecca Rosenberg, left, New York Times reporter Jan Ransom, second from left, Fox News field producer Marta Dhanis, third from left, and freelance reporter working for Vulture magazine Victoria Bekiempis, right, go over their notes at the end of the day in Harvey Weinstein's rape trial, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020, in New York. Courtroom artist Jane Rosenberg is seen in the background. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer) In this Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020 photo, Abdullah Mohammed plays with his daughter, three-year-old Salwa, inside a house he recently fled to, near the Syrian-Turkish border, in Sarmada, Syria. Mohammed would do anything for his daughter, even if that means forcing himself to laugh with her at the sound of exploding bombs, to help her overcome her fear. Mohammed and Salwa became an overnight celebrity after a video they shot spread on social media, widely shared as a reminder of the horrors faced by children in Syria. (AP Photo/Ghaith Alsayed) U.S. President Donald Trump offers floral respects at Raj Ghat, the memorial for Mahatma Gandhi, in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) Actor Bryan Cranston waves beads as he acts as the celebrity monarch of the Krewe of Orpheus along the Uptown parade route during Mardi Gras celebrations in New Orleans, Monday, Feb. 24, 2020. (AP Photo/Matthew Hinton) Alicia Keys reacts after performing during a celebration of life for Kobe Bryant and his daughter Gianna Monday, Feb. 24, 2020, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez) 
