{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline and Charlie Lankston For Dailymail.com    Published:  09:36, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8041379/Melania-Trump-dons-1-393-floral-gown-Ivanka-power-dresses-shalwar-kameez-India.html }
Melania and Ivanka Trump matched in white today as the women toured New Delhi as part of the US state visit to India. The First Lady, 49, donned a pretty floral print white gown by Venezuelan fashion designer Caroline Herrera, costing $1,807. She cinched in the floating shirt dress at the waist with a vibrant red belt and completed her look with a pair of white textured leather stilettos. Mother-of-one Melania opted for her signature smokey eye make-up with rose-colored lipstick, and wore her ombré locks in loose waves around her shoulders. Meanwhile White House senior advisor Ivanka power dressed in a chic, traditional handwoven shalwar kameez by Anita Dongre - a designer previously worn by the Duchess of Cambridge. President Trump's daughter, 38, who was joined by her husband, fellow senior advisor Jared Kushner, also went for white, widely accepted as the color of peace and purity in the country. Ivanka wore her blonde locks sleek and straight and completed her look with £545 white kitten heel Manolo Blahnik mules. She added a touch of glamour with an elaborate pair of gold bejeweled Bollywood-style chandelier earrings.  On the first couple's arrival in India yesterday, Melania also opted to wear white, stepping off Air Force One in a striking pants ensemble with a green sash tied around her waist.  Earlier today she and her husband received a lavish welcome at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Presidential Palace. The couple paid tribute to famous Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi, laying a wreath at the spot of his cremation and tossing flower respects onto the memorial.  Melania joined the president in removing her shoes for the occasion. They laid a wreath at the black marble platform that marked the spot where the independence leader was cremated after his assassination. They also planted a tree in one of the gardens surrounding the memorial. The First Lady received a traditional red tilaka forehead dot when she arrived at a New Delhi school on Tuesday to observe a happiness class as part of her Be Best campaign.  Students gave the first lady flowers and decorated her forehead with the tilaka, which is made of a fragrant paste, such as of sandalwood or vermilion, and given as a welcome and expression of honor to guests when they arrive. Melania thanked the students and the people of India for their warm welcome. 'This is my first visit to India and I cannot express how delightful it is. The people here are so welcoming and so kind. The President and I are grateful to be guests in your beautiful country and to receive such a warm reception,' she said. Melania attended happiness classes at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School, an educational program implemented by the Delhi government for students first through eight grades.  'It is very inspiring to me that students here begin each day participating in mindfulness,' she said. 'I cannot think of a better way for all of us to start our day.'  Later in the day the Trumps will visit staff at the US embassy before attending a state dinner in the evening.  Trump said 'tremendous advancements' were made in trade talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but no deal was struck to end the war between the two nations. Both leaders were effulgent in their praise for one another but underneath the glowing words were the stark reality that Modi's lavish welcome for the president didn't result in a deal. Yesterday the Trumps paid a visit to the Taj Mahal in Agra and took the opportunity to pose in front of the world's most famous monument to love. Ivanka, dressed in a pale blue and red floral gown, and Jared sat on the famous 'Diana' bench where the then-Princess of Wales took an iconic image during her 1992 visit.  
