brexit
{ Kevin Doyle and agencies 
    December 11 2018 10:38 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/brexit/brexit-crisis-talks-theresa-may-to-travel-to-dublin-for-crunch-meeting-with-taoiseach-37615224.html }
THERESA MAY is to travel to Dublin on Wednesday for talks with the Taoiseach in a bid to rescue her Brexit deal.  The British Prime Minister has already been dealt a heavy blow in her bid to secure new reassurances from fellow EU leaders over the deal, as the European Commission president declared there was "no room whatsoever for renegotiation". 
Close
 European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker addresses the European Parliament during a debate on upcoming EU council meeting, at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, December 11, 2018. REUTERS/Vincent Kessler REUTERS / Jean-Claude Juncker said the Withdrawal Agreement on offer was the "best deal possible" and the "only deal possible" as the British prime minister embarked on emergency Brexit talks with her Dutch counterpart Mark Rutte in The Hague. He offered a glimmer of hope to Mrs May by saying there was room to give "further clarifications and further interpretations without opening the Withdrawal Agreement". Now it has emerged that Mrs May is to travel to Dublin tomorrow evening for a crunch meeting with Leo Varadkar. They will discuss how to reassure MP in the House of Commons that the backstop will trap the UK in the EU’s customs union. Mr Varadkar has already stated that the Withdrawal Agreement cannot be renegotiated. Earlier on Tuesday, Mrs May sought Angela Merkel's support on Tuesday to save her floundering Brexit deal but the European Union ruled out renegotiating the divorce treaty, after May postponed a parliamentary vote she admitted she would lose. In rainy Berlin, a hitch with May's car door briefly trapped her inside, delaying her red carpet handshake with Merkel. Mrs May then held a "long and frank" meeting with EU Council president Donald Tusk.  Mr Tusk tweeted after the conversation: "Long and frank discussion with PM @theresa_may ahead of #Brexit summit. Clear that EU27 wants to help. The question is how." Mrs May's move to abandon a crunch Commons vote, scheduled for Tuesday, on her Brexit deal drew howls of condemnation from the opposition as well as a number of Tories. She will now bring her Brexit deal back to the House of Commons “before January 21”. Mr Juncker won applause from MEPs as he said: "There is no room whatsoever for renegotiation, but of course there is room if used intelligently, there is room enough to give further clarifications and further interpretations without opening the Withdrawal Agreement. 
Close
 Dramatic scenes: Prime Minister Theresa May makes her statement in the Commons yesterday. Photo: AFP/Getty Images AFP/Getty Images / WATCH: 'There is no room whatsoever for renegotiations' - Jean-Claude Juncker  "This will not happen: everyone has to note that the Withdrawal Agreement will not be reopened." He confirmed he would meet Mrs May on Tuesday evening but reiterated: "The deal we have achieved is the best deal possible - it is the only deal possible." It came as Commons Leader Andrea Leadsom suggested Mrs May was seeking changes that would give Parliament an additional "democratic ability to decide". "That might include an addendum to the Withdrawal Agreement that sets out that Parliament will vote prior to going into a backstop, should that prove necessary, and potentially that the EU parliament and UK parliament must vote every year thereafter to provide that legitimacy for the UK to stay in the backstop, should that prove necessary," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "So there are plenty of options for the PM to talk to the EU about that don't involve reopening the Withdrawal Agreement, but that would provide the legal text as a part of the Withdrawal Agreement, through perhaps an addendum." Mrs May, who is facing repeated calls from leading Tory Brexiteers to be replaced as PM, was forced to abandon the Commons vote as the scale of opposition to the Brexit deal, especially regarding proposed backstop arrangements for the Irish border, threatened a crushing rejection of her plans. As anger at Westminster continued to fester over the PM's move to cancel the Brexit vote, MPs were poised for an emergency debate on the situation called by Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn on the day the "meaningful vote" was initially scheduled to take place. International Trade Secretary Liam Fox said it would be difficult to get the Brexit deal through Parliament without reassurances the UK would not be "trapped" in backstop measures ensuring no return to hard border in Ireland. The backstop would see the UK obey EU customs rules after a transition period if a wider trade deal has not been agreed with the EU by then. Referring to Mrs May's lobbying mission in Europe, Dr Fox told BBC2's Newsnight: "My colleagues will want to see that their fears of being trapped in a backstop cannot be realised. "Without the ability to genuinely reassure my colleagues that they could not legally be kept in the backstop against their will, it will be difficult to get this through the House of Commons." With Jeremy Corbyn under pressure from a significant number of MPs and peers to force a confidence vote on the Government, Labour former Cabinet minister Lord Mandelson said the opposition had not laid a glove on the Government. He told the BBC: "I think the Labour Party, the Labour leadership, is facing a bit of a dilemma. "I mean, they want to straddle, and retain the support of the third of Labour voters who backed Leave in 2016, and the two-thirds of Labour voters who backed Remain. "Well, what happens when you, you know, ride two horses like that, you end up doing the splits." PA Media 
