brexit
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    April 02 2019 05:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/brexit/article37976324.ece }
Labour leader Jeremy Corby has accepted the British Prime Minister's invitation to cross-party talks to avoid a no-deal Brexit. In a speech at No 10 Downing Street, Theresa May said that the UK needs an extension to Brexit talks which is “as short as possible” in order to leave the EU with a deal. May said she knows they could make a success of a no-deal in the long-term, but leaving with a deal would be a better option. She said a brief extension is necessary to ensure this. May said she is offering to sit down with UK Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn to try and agree a plan which allows the UK to leave the EU with a deal. She added the debate at the moment is doing "damage to the UK's politics". She described it as a "difficult time" for everyone, but added they "must find compromises to deliver what the British people voted for". It is understood the Cabinet members had their phones taken off them before they began the mammoth eight-hour meeting. Even if, after today, we don’t know what the end result will be, let us be patient. #Brexit It is very disappointing that the cabinet has decided to entrust the final handling of Brexit to Jeremy Corbyn and the Labour Party. It now seems all too likely that British trade policy and key law making powers will be handed over to Brussels - with no say for the U.K. They were then kept inside until the British Prime Minister made her announcement outside No 10 Downing Street. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn later said that he is "very happy" to meet Theresa May after she offered to sit down with him to agree a plan which allows the UK to leave the EU with a deal. Agreeing to the meeting, Mr Corbyn said: "I recognise my responsibility to represent the people that supported Labour in the last election and the people who didn't support Labour but nevertheless want certainty and security for their own future." He said he would not set any "limits" ahead of the meeting with the Prime Minister and warned that Labour would "hold in reserve" the option of tabling a confidence motion in the Government if it "proves it is incapable of commanding a majority in the House of Commons". But the Democratic Unionists have accused Theresa May of sub-contracting out the future of Brexit to the Labour Party. In a statement, the DUP said: "The Prime Minister's lamentable handling of the negotiations with the EU means she has failed to deliver a sensible Brexit deal that works for all parts of the United Kingdom. That is why she has not been able to get it through Parliament. "Her announcement therefore tonight comes as little surprise. Though it remains to be seen if sub-contracting out the future of Brexit to Jeremy Corbyn, someone whom the Conservatives have demonised for four years, will end happily. "We want the result of the referendum respected, and just as we joined the Common Market as one country we must leave the EU as one country. "We will continue to use our position within Parliament and with the Government to argue strongly the case for Northern Ireland and the integrity of the United Kingdom. "We remain consistent in judging all Brexit outcomes against our clear unionist principles." Mrs May's "red lines" include making sure the UK is out of the customs union and she has also ruled out a second referendum, but a Number 10 source said "unless there is compromise on both sides, it is unlikely we can find a way forward". 
Close
 British Prime Minister Theresa May gives a news conference after a cabinet meeting following yesterday's alternative Brexit options vote, outside Downing Street, London, Britain April 2, 2019. Jack Taylor/Pool via REUTERS REUTERS / In response to the speech, President of the European Council Donald Tusk said that European Union leaders should be patient with Britain over the country's struggle to find majority support for a deal to exit the EU. "Even if, after today, we don’t know what the end result will be, let us be patient," Tusk said on Twitter. Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats have said they will table amendments to any new Brexit motions in an attempt to secure a second referendum. Speaking in Paris shortly before Mrs May announced her intention to seek a Brexit extension, Taoiseach Leo Varadkar warned there is “no guarantee” EU leaders would agree to one. He pressed Mr Macron on the issue during their meeting at the Elysée Palace – but both agreed there would have to be a some argument made by the UK government. “We can’t have a rolling extension, there would have to be a clear purpose and conditionality to it,” Mr Varadkar said. “First of all the United Kingdom would have to request it. It’s not something we can consider until it is requested. It is not a done deal. “There is no guarantee that the UK will get an extension at all, bear in mind an extension requires unanimity and any one of 27 countries could block an extension,” Mr Varadkar said. Earlier, French President Emmanuel Macron said his country "will never abandon Ireland". He was speaking as Taoiseach Varadkar visited him in Paris as the EU grapples with the prospect of a no-deal Brexit. With just 10 remaining for the UK to find a consensus, Mr Macron said it appears we are heading for de facto no-deal scenario. "If the United Kingdom is not capable, almost three years after the referendum, of coming forward with a solution that is supported by a majority, it will have effectively chosen a no-deal exit on its own," Mr Macron said. He said the EU will listen to any request for another Brexit extension but it must have a good reason. PA Media 
