brexit
{ Dan O'Brien 
    October 17 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/dan-obrien-whatever-happens-in-the-coming-days-brexit-will-pose-its-own-threat-here-for-many-years-to-come-38603676.html }
Amid the by-now hourly swings in the Brexit saga, new figures on international trade published on Tuesday by the State's statisticians gave one perspective on what is at stake.  In August alone, Ireland Inc spent around €1,500 per person on foreign goods - from food to pharmaceuticals and petrol to power generators.  Almost a quarter of all the goods we purchase from the rest of the world are made in Britain Even more of the imports that keep the economy functioning, and which make life more enjoyable, are trucked across our neighbouring island from continental Europe on their journey to Irish ports. Unlike exports, which have become much more diversified (only 10pc of Irish goods sold abroad are purchased in the UK market), Ireland remains heavily dependent on imports that come from or through Britain.  Despite sharing a currency with much of the continental market for two decades, Irish businesses have only gradually switched from British to continental suppliers from whom they can do business without the costs of ever-fluctuating currencies.  As a result, Ireland Inc buys almost as much merchandise from Britain as it does from all of the other 18 euro countries combined.  The still-huge import dependence on Britain - both directly and as a landbridge from the continent - poses the biggest short-term risk to Ireland if Brexit causes disruption to Irish Sea trade.  Just last week, this newspaper got hold of a Government document which warned of the risk of shortages of food and medicines in the event of a no-deal Brexit.  It should be clear by now that whatever supply disruptions Britain experiences as a result of Brexit, the impact for Ireland will be more serious simply because our economy is much more dependent on imports than is the UK.  The trade figures give some sense of what is at stake in the seemingly never-ending Brexit saga.  If there is anything to be thankful for as of right now, it is that the worst-case scenario can probably be avoided at the end of the month.  Although a lot could go wrong - and it will take 28 governments to agree something unanimously to prevent the lapsing of Britain's EU membership in just two weeks - the most likely outcome over the coming days is for yet another Brexit extension.  There has been much feverish speculation about how this will affect the politics of our neighbour, and the truth is that not even the longest-living inhabitants of the Westminster bubble can predict how things will look in just 72 hours, but let me add my tuppence ha'penny worth.  Start by asking a basic question: how important is Brexit for the average British voter and how will he/she react if Brexit doesn't happen at the end of the month?  It is often forgotten that the UK general election of 2017, held a full year after the referendum on leaving, was not as dominated by Brexit as one might have expected.  The Labour Party had no clear position on the matter, and it was probably because of this, not despite it, that its support rose compared to the previous general election.  By contrast, the parties with the strongest positions on Brexit lost support.  The pro-leave hardliners of UKIP saw their vote evaporate. The only strongly pro-EU party, the Liberal Democrats, lost votes.  Despite Brexit dominating the news over the remainder of 2017, throughout 2018 and into 2019, support for the parties in opinion polls remained in line with recent years and, indeed, recent decades.  This points to the average voter not being overly concerned about Brexit one way or the other. Then the original Brexit deadline of March 31 this year came and went.  In the subsequent months, support for both the Conservatives and the Labour Party collapsed in a manner never seen in living memory.  By mid-year, the Lib Dems had surpassed Labour in some polls.  The new Brexit Party, led by former UKIP leader Nigel Farage, was for a brief time ahead of all other parties and won more seats than any other in May's European Parliament elections. Since Boris Johnson took over from Theresa May in the summer, he has clawed back around half of the support his predecessor lost to Farage earlier in the year. But that support is almost certainly fragile.  If, over the coming days, Johnson has to admit that he will fail to deliver Brexit by the deadline he promised - October 31 - there is no reason to believe that his leadership will not be dealt as serious a body blow as that of his predecessor when she failed to keep her word.  There is every reason to believe that Nigel Farage will do all in his power to persuade those Conservative and Brexit-supporting voters that only he can be trusted to deliver what they voted for in the 2016 referendum.  If Britain does not leave with an agreement in two weeks' time, it is hard to see anything resembling political stability returning to Britain in the foreseeable future and easier to see even greater polarisation in views on Brexit. Continued turmoil in British politics means continued turmoil in relations with Ireland and other European neighbours.  Last Sunday, one aspect of the future relationship raised its head afresh. The German chancellor spoke of Britain becoming a competitor to Europe akin to China, which doesn't play by the sort of rules that Europe plays by. Just one example of this that is most relevant to Ireland is the spectre of a British government offering multi-billion pound grants to companies based here to move jobs across the Irish Sea.  One of the most sensible rules European countries have agreed among themselves over the decades is to tie their own hands regarding how much taxpayers' cash they can give to businesses. By agreeing not to subsidise their own companies and industries, and giving Brussels the power to police anti-subsidy laws, everyone involved in cross-Border trade is reassured that they are competing on a level playing field. Angela Merkel last weekend warned of giving post-Brexit Britain access to the EU market without assurances that it would not tip the balance in its own favour by, as in the example above, refusing to be bound by EU rules on subsidies and then go about luring companies to Britain with grants and hand-outs of various kinds.  That is just one of the many headaches that will confront Irish governments in the years and possibly decades to come. Brexit is with us for the foreseeable future. It is not going away. Irish Independent 
