brexit
{ Richard Curran 
    October 24 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/brexit/richard-curran-johnsons-deal-shows-there-can-be-no-good-brexit-for-us-38625806.html }
Whither Brexit? Whither business preparations for Brexit now?  For the past three years, Irish companies have faced the difficult task of trying to prepare for Brexit - a moving target that may never have to be hit at all.  As things stand this week, after British prime minister Boris Johnson decided to pause his Brexit withdrawal agreement, the situation looks ever more complicated and difficult to predict.  In reality, businesses that are serious about making Brexit preparations have already done so.  Those who have adopted a wait-and-see approach will just have to wait and see.  There was lots to be positive about in last week's new Brexit agreement between the EU and the UK, especially when it came to ensuring an open border on the island of Ireland.  Yet, when it comes to other elements of the package, the new deal represents a harder Brexit than Theresa May's previous withdrawal agreement.  For Irish businesses trying to read the tea leaves during the House of Commons debate in recent days, there were strong clues about where the Brexit process will go from here, but there were also plenty of ominous signs.  On the positive side, Johnson did say the UK will leave the EU with his deal, at some point, implying he had taken no-deal off the table.  But is his deal really all that good for the Irish economy? The sinking of May's withdrawal agreement, largely with the assistance of the DUP and the Conservative Party's ERG faction, has put a harder Brexit on the table for Irish businesses.  Under May's deal, the backstop was not the primary plan, but only a fall-back position if the talks about the future EU/UK trade relationship resulted in a looser arrangement.  This would have incentivised the British negotiating team to ensure a close future trading relationship with the EU, in order to avoid the backstop, which covered the entire UK. This would have meant a softer Brexit and been better for Irish businesses.  Under the Johnson deal, the backstop is gone and Plan A (as it were) will keep an open border with the North, but will also free up Britain to diverge further from the EU in future regulations and in its trading relationship.  Ironically, for the unionist DUP, May's deal was much better, but they couldn't see it. There was no border down the Irish Sea and the future trading relationship between the EU and the UK would have been closer - a positive for the Northern Ireland economy.   Under the Johnson deal, there will be a customs border down the Irish Sea and there is scope for Britain to drift further away from the EU in regulatory and trade terms, while the North remains plugged in to EU rules.  The DUP shot down May's deal. Yet, the ERG abandoned their DUP colleagues and almost unanimously backed the Johnson deal in the House of Commons vote on Tuesday.  During the debate on the withdrawal agreement this week, Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn described it as "page after page of what amounts to nothing less than a charter for deregulation and a race to the bottom". Backbench MPs sought assurances from Johnson about the preservation of employment rights that currently exist in the EU. The prime minister was in the mood to assure everyone of anything they wanted. A convenient fiction is how Johnson might describe this later. There were other ominous signs about the future for Irish businesses that might simply have focused on the political euphoria of ensuring an open border in this deal.  When asked by the DUP's Nigel Dodds about Northern Irish businesses having to apply and pay the cost of customs procedures between the North and Britain, Johnson's reply was to the point.  He described them as "light-touch measures", despite the fact they will add a lot of administrative cost for Northern Irish businesses selling into their biggest market.  Johnson went on to say that all of these measures would "automatically dissolve" after the initial period, after 2025, unless the Northern Ireland assembly voted to keep them.  So, if Northern Irish businesses find the benefits of the new economic relationship are not as positive as the cost of exporting to their main market, they could vote to get rid of them, which would reopen the thorny issue of the need for a customs border in Ireland. This would mark another new cliff edge on the border issue.  Comments by Labour Party MP Hilary Benn were more worrying from an Irish business perspective. He pointed out that under the deal, the transition period will end in December 2020. The British government can decide whether to extend it or not, depending on progress made on a future trade relationship.  A trade deal will take years to negotiate, not months. Benn pointed out that under the deal, "if the government fails to propose more time... then if no agreement has been reached with the EU in 14 months' time, we crash out with no deal in December of next year". No-deal is off the table now but it could be right back on it in a little over a year's time.  The House of Commons debate wasn't just about this deal. It was about the complete lack of trust that exists around anything the British prime minister says.  The lack of trust was behind the Letwin amendment which delayed the meaningful vote on the deal.  It was also behind Tuesday's vote to reject the rushed timetable for discussing the legislation.  Johnson has told too many lies to reach the point of a deal he can live with.  Now the toxicity created by so much deceit is preventing him from getting his deal over the line. Johnson now has to decide whether to seek a short extension which will allow more time for debate, scrutiny and amendments to his withdrawal bill.  If he takes this avenue and succeeds in passing his new deal, he can go for an election, having delivered Brexit.  Alternatively, he can seek a longer extension, perhaps until the end of January, and opt for an election and a campaign he will fight on how the UK parliament is denying the people the Brexit they want and voted for.  Either option puts him in a strong electoral position. The opposition can deny him an election by voting against it in Westminster, thereby depriving him of the two-thirds majority needed to call one.  But the opposition can only deny an election for so long.  For those of us watching in Ireland, what should we hope for from all of this? Should we hope the Johnson deal goes through, securing an open border?  Or should we hope that in the longer term, somehow a softer Brexit or even a fudge, or no Brexit, will emerge? There is no good Brexit for Ireland. There is only the hope of a least worst scenario.  May sank that hope when she decided to interpret the referendum as leaving the customs union and single market.  The DUP ensured the next least worst option was not available by sinking her milder deal.  The public momentum behind Brexit in England is strong. Even a second referendum might not reverse the outcome.  Right now, Johnson looks likely to be prime minister after the next British general election.  In Ireland, if we want his deal to succeed, for the sake of the Border, we will have to live with the inevitable risks that will arise next December when the trade talks are not complete.   What happens to sterling during this period? What happens to the performance of the British economy on investment as well as business and consumer confidence? These all affect Irish exports and Irish jobs, from food to tourism.  The Brexit uncertainty will go on and on. Indo Business 
