brexit
{  
    March 03 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/fingal-businesses-well-placed-to-meet-challenges-of-brexit-36649985.html }
North Dublin farmers and firm owners welcome Brexit and enterprise measures but say the devil in detail. By Laura Lynott Business owners say Fingal could be in a strong position ahead of Brexit thanks to Project Ireland 2040 - but the "devil is in the detail" of where and how funding is deployed across the county. The funding will be delivered via a €300m loan fund open nationally to businesses exposed to the impact of Brexit, with fewer than 500 employees. And the Regional Development Fund will mean €30m will be released to new enterprises across Ireland that can create regional and national employment. Alan Hickey, from Castleknock, Dublin 15, is co-founder of WeBringg, a firm that delivers online products within 90 minutes, beating the traditional two- to three-day waiting time. Hickey, 31, has reached the national final of Ireland's Best Young Entrepreneur (IBYE) competition and the start-up, co-founded with childhood friend Sean Murray, 32, has just secured €650,000 in funding from backers. The future looks bright for the businessmen, who credit their success partly to support from Fingal Local Enterprise Office (LEO). But Hickey feels more help must be offered to entrepreneurs against the backdrop of Brexit. "It's great to see the Government is tackling the elephant in the room that is Brexit," says Hickey. "But the point is, we still don't know what Brexit means for Irish businesses. We're trying our best to Brexit-proof as much as we can, but the more supports the better that Government can offer. "It's not as if there's an infinite amount of resources, so it's about balancing and making sure this money is deployed in the right places. "We need to see still more of a focus on small and medium enterprises. They employ the vast number of employees in Ireland. "I understand everything is driven by politics and headlines, but assisting these companies needs to come as the major policy ahead of assisting global conglomerates if the Government wants to make an impact on day-to-day life. "Sometimes €300m funds make headlines, but it's about how these funds are utilised." Enterprise Ireland will be assisting 1,000 firms develop and implement sustainability and growth plans as part of the Project Ireland 2040 stimulus of packages. To help support employment and enterprise, new regional sectoral clusters will be developed. These clusters will see regional SMEs and multinationals working with research centres and third-level institutions as they help companies think in global terms. Enterprise Ireland and Local Enterprise Offices will also be supporting Brexit-exposed businesses, with initiatives to help them become more competitive and to 'diversify' trade from the UK to new markets. Oisin Geoghegan, head of enterprise at Fingal LEO, said in a "typical year" his office deals with more than 1,000 local start-ups. Last year the Fingal LEO held 670 clinics to assist entrepreneurs launch new businesses. "It's staggering, the volume of business going on in Fingal," Geoghegan said. "Project Ireland is probably unprecedented for the €300m loans that will be available. And our job is for small businesses to know this isn't just going to be for the big boys, that they can avail of that funding too." On March 5, Fingal LEO will be holding an event titled Show Me The Money, for small and medium enterprises, at the Carlton Hotel, Dublin Airport. The group will help companies unlock some of the secrets to gaining finance. The potential for what Project Ireland could deliver is "very exciting from a business perspective", Geoghegan. "And Fingal is a gateway to Ireland for business," he added. "In my world, which supports smaller businesses, micro enterprises and start-ups, I don't think anywhere else in the EU has as many supports when it comes to practical advice and funding. It's stronger now than ever before. "With more funding and the airport and transport infrastructure in Project Ireland, there are new opportunities for business coming to Fingal. "We have diversity in business in Fingal - from tech, to pharma to agriculture and a food sector too. There are a lot of opportunities, but companies need to take Brexit seriously and look at how they could be impacted." One of the most vital industries in Fingal, farming, is particularly at risk due to Brexit. And farmers are keen to have their say on Government policy. Thomas Cooney, the Irish Farmers' Association (IFA) chair for environment and rural affairs, said: "We welcome the plan for development and the allocation of funds, but the admin needs to be kept without too much red tape. "There's a lot of farming activity in Fingal and farmers are concerned about Brexit. More still needs to be done for farmers, with formal agricultural policy. The devil is in the detail of this project. "A lot of farmers are at the mercy of supermarkets. There needs to be more done - legislation brought in at EU level and a budget needs to be increased to allow for the impact of Brexit on farmers. "Farming did its part for the recovery of the economy - it was the only sector that grew in the crash. It sustained the Government in recession, so we hope Government continues to do what it can for us." Padraic McMahon, a farmer from Kilsallaghan, near Swords, said nationally "people don't associate Dublin with farming". But, he added, "It's at the heart of Fingal." "It's early days with the Government's Project Ireland plan," Mr McMahon, who runs a farm with his wife Brid, said. "The general thrust of the announcement was good. Certainly, if the Government can help business people and farmers grow new markets, then that's the aim ahead of Brexit. "It's a waiting game but it's a start and if someone is there to tell me I need to be more Brexit-prepared, I will listen." A Department of Business spokesman said: "Enterprise Ireland is working directly with clients most exposed to Brexit, providing the necessary supports and expertise to help them navigate immediate challenges. This includes the Brexit SME Scorecard, the Be Prepared Funding and the Market Discovery Fund. "A series of Brexit Advisory Clinics are also being held across the country to support businesses affected by Brexit in taking action to reduce their exposure."   For more information on Project Ireland 2040 visit the official website  
 
Close
 / Fingal Independent 
