brexit
{ Letters to the Editor 
    August 23 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/letters-to-the-editor-hard-brexit-will-be-short-term-pain-but-give-long-term-gain-38428824.html }
The current narratives around the backstop seem to be focused on “protecting the peace process and the island of Ireland economies” versus “a hard Brexit unless the backstop is removed”. However, if the backstop is viewed in the context of the next phase of the Brexit process, a UK-EU trade deal, a different set of factors come into play. First and foremost, it seems obvious that whoever wins the backstop debate will hold a major card, possibly the ace, when trade negotiations start. If the backstop is in, then the UK will struggle to seriously deviate from the EU in its terms and conditions. If the backstop is out, the UK can use the threat or fear of an inadvertent hard border to force even more EU concessions for a better deal for Britain. This would probably be to the detriment of an Ireland with a soft border.  Secondly, there are those who argue that keeping the backstop will actually result in a hard border, the scenario it is meant to avoid. These folks are not looking beyond the short-term pain of an October Brexit for both Ireland and more importantly the UK. We may suffer a short-term hard border, but the UK will suffer tariffs from all sides, queues at the border and ports, business relocations and closures and loss of jobs.  The chance is very high the UK will belatedly accept the backstop when its public tastes the nasty, sudden flavour of a hard Brexit. Even if the UK decides to suffer hard Brexit during more protracted negotiations, if the EU allows a hard Brexit in October 2019 over the backstop then it’s clear an open border on this island will be the first condition for trade discussions to commence. Giving up the backstop before October 31, 2019 will simply give the UK the upper hand in trade negotiations. They will have the hard border as a bargaining tool for terms and conditions favourable to the UK, and more likely Britain, without having the pressure of the hard Brexit consequences. So, as of now, it’s a case of choosing the least of two evils. I would chose the short-term hard border over a Britain-centric trade deal that comes about through the UK’s threat of a long-term hard border.  I hope our Irish and EU leaders can see beyond October 31, 2019 and choose to keep the ace card that is the backstop. PJ SherrySkerries, Co Dublin As Armageddon Brexit day quickly approaches, we are increasingly hearing phrases emanating from the UK such as “Churchillian”, “blitz spirit” and “Dunkirk mentality”. These were great clarion calls when you had a united people such as was the case during World War II. They are of lesser or no significance today when you have an equally divided people (52pc v 48pc). On the same note, I never thought I would see the day when it would be Ireland and practically the rest of Europe versus Britain. Aidan HampsonArtane, Dublin 5 It is interesting to note that RTÉ’S report on Brexit (August 21) was not as dismissive as usual. Perhaps news of Ms Merkel’s discussion with Mr Johnson was not quite as expected. Allowing 30 days to find alternatives to the backstop and a border in Ireland was certainly not in the Irish script. Ms Merkel is a pragmatist and not averse to sweeping aside any obstacle that hinders German trade. If the backstop fails to bludgeon the United Kingdom into remaining in the European Union, it cannot be allowed to destroy badly needed exports.  Ireland may find that when the chips are down, commerce takes precedence over the most immovable political rhetoric. Ireland might be wise to offer assistance with finding workable alternatives. It would be immeasurably better to bend with grace rather than be broken by cold commercial considerations. Padraic NearyTubbercurry, Co Sligo It appears that Donald Trump won’t visit Greenland as he can’t buy it.  If the United States president won’t visit any country that he can’t buy then he will have few places to visit. Most countries can no longer be bought or sold for a few blankets or the $24 worth of trinkets it cost for Manhattan. Dennis Fitzgerald Melbourne, Australia   Irish Independent 
