brexit
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    March 24 2019 06:16 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/brendan-oconnor-the-ultimate-brexit-q-and-a-37944985.html }
Q: What does Brexit mean? A: Brexit means Brexit. Q: And what does that mean? A: It means Brexit. We can keep doing this all day but we will take up all the space in this Brexit Q and A. Q: What exactly is a Brexit Q and A? A: Every newspaper is now legally obliged to carry a Brexit Q and A every day. This is a mechanism whereby journalists pretend to know what's going on so that they can tell readers who can then pretend to know what's going on. Politicians also read Brexit Q and As in order to try and understand what is going on. Internet conspiracy theorists now claim that people who write Brexit Q and As are running the world through the medium of Brexit Q and As. Q: So does Theresa May read Brexit Q and As? A: Theresa May, I can say without fear of contradiction, is an avid consumer of Brexit Q and As. This is how she keeps up with what she is doing. Q: Are Brexit Q and As reliable? A: You can essentially put anything you want into a Brexit Q and A because, let's face it, who's going to contradict you? (See above) And anyway, everything will have changed again by the time people read it. Q: What is going to happen next in Brexit? A: Well, it now looks as if the UK might crash out of the EU because of the backstop, which is designed to ensure no hard border. Q: What happens if they crash out? A: A hard border. Q: So we are getting a hard border in order to avoid having a hard border? A: There'll be no border. Q: Hang on, you said… A: The Irish Government is adamant there are no plans being made for a border on this island.  Q: Do people in the UK still think Brexit is a good idea? A: Remarkably, many do. To them it represents freedom from the tyranny of the EU, and the tyranny of logic and reason. They have a plan for it, called Operation Yellowhammer, which involves Theresa May and the army ruling from an underground nuclear bunker in London and three months of chaos. Brexiteers feel that the complete breakdown of social order is a small price to pay for freedom, which is just another word for nothing left to lose. Theresa May is also said to be quite pleased with the idea of retreating underground into a nuclear bunker. One alarming concern expressed in Operation Yellowhammer documents is shortages of food, medicine and toilet paper. These being English people, their main plan under Yellowhammer is to have meetings all day every day to keep things under control. There will also presumably be lots of queuing. Q: Is this actually an episode of Black Mirror? A: We can only hope so. Sunday Independent 
