brexit
{  
    January 27 2019 06:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish-business-faces-grim-outlook-if-brexit-is-hard-37752324.html }
A so-called hard Brexit will see the return of tariffs and Border customs checkpoints on trade between Ireland and the UK and impose extra costs on Irish companies and consumers.  Just how big a burden a hard Brexit could impose on Irish businesses was made clear by Niall Cody, chairman of the Revenue Commissioners, last week.  Appearing before the Oireachtas Finance Committee last Thursday, Cody told TDs and Senators that if the UK became a "third country" the number of import and export declarations submitted by Irish companies would increase from the current 1.7 million a year to up to 20 million, while the number of Irish companies falling into the customs net would increase from about 17,000 to more than 100,000. To deal with this enormous increase in the volume of transactions, the Revenue Commissioners are recruiting 600 extra customs staff, of whom 400 will have been hired by end of the January with the remaining 200 in post by the end of the year.  While Cody told the committee "the Government has made it clear that its overriding objective is to avoid a hard Border on the island of Ireland" and that "Revenue is not planning for customs posts on the land Border", this decision may be taken out of our hands.  Last Tuesday, European Commission spokesperson Margaritis Schinas said: "If you'd like to push me and speculate on what might happen in a no-deal scenario in Ireland, I think it is pretty obvious: you will have a hard Border."  On Friday Taoiseach Leo Varadker raised the prospect of a return of soldiers to the border if Brexit goes badly wrong.  If the UK does leave the EU with no deal, then the first thing that most Irish importers are likely to notice on March 30 is that they will have to pay the Vat immediately at the point of entry rather than, as is currently the case, paying the Vat later when they have sold the goods. "That [Vat] is controllable here. There is nothing stopping Revenue from sticking with the status quo…why does Revenue have to get this money up front?" said ISME CEO Neil McDonnell. While we may have some flexibility on whether or not we levy Vat on UK imports at the point of entry, it's a different story when it comes to tariffs. These are levied by the EU - and if the UK becomes a third country then we will have no choice but to collect them on its behalf.  Some of these tariffs are quite substantial, with tariffs on clothing and footwear, most of which comes through the UK, running as high as 12pc. Many imported food brands will also have to pay tariffs with even the humble cornflake being liable to a 3.8pc import duty.  Whatever the rate, the imposition of tariffs on imports from the UK will also add an extra layer of complexity for importers, with no fewer than 35 separate customs categories for clothing and footwear alone.  The imposition of tariffs will also hit Irish exporters. Worst hit will be food exporters, which shipped €4.5bn worth of food to the UK last year. Exports of fresh or frozen beef to the UK will be liable to a 12.8pc tariff, while live cattle exports will be hit with a 10.2pc tariff.  So just how likely is a no-deal, hard Brexit? With Britain's two-year Article 50 notice period set to expire at 11pm on March 29 a hard Brexit is the default position. Unless the UK parliament, both Commons and Lords, votes to repeal the Article 50 legislation then Britain will be out of the EU, deal or no deal, on March 30. Given the deadlocked state of the House of Commons it would be a brave man or woman who bet against nothing happening between now and March 29. Despite this seemingly bleak outlook, we may yet avoid a complete car-crash at the end of March. "Our view is that there is still a significant momentum across Europe that wants to avoid a cliff-edge Brexit," said IBEC director of policy Fergal O'Brien. As evidence of this he cites last week's warning from aircraft manufacturer Airbus, which employs 14,000 people in Britain, that it would "have to make potentially very harmful decisions for the UK" in the event of no deal. However, O'Brien is careful to distinguish between a "hard" Brexit and a "no-deal" Brexit. He defines a "managed" no-deal Brexit as one in which the UK will become a third country and revert to World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules ,but with sufficient time for Irish companies to adjust.  "A cliff-edge Brexit at the end of March would be the single most damaging outcome. Deal or no deal, business has to have time to adjust," he said. Such a managed Brexit would reduce the cost to Irish companies from the "catastrophic" to the merely "significantly disruptive", he believes.  O'Brien also said that, even at this late stage and Schinas' comments notwithstanding, it is still possible to avoid a hard Border on the island of Ireland. "It is not too late [to avoid a hard border]. The origin of the backstop is the Good Friday Agreement. Whether we have a backstop or not, we will still have the Good Friday Agreement." Although a hard Brexit would be bad news for most sectors of the Irish economy, some will benefit. The weakness of sterling since the June 2016 UK referendum has led to a flood of second-hand car imports with the 99,000 second-hand imports in 2018 coming close to the 121,000 new cars registered for the first time.  However, Brian Cooke, director general designate of the SIMI, said that his organisation isn't hoping for a hard Brexit: "There is a bigger picture. The economy will suffer from a hard Brexit and that will make people less likely to buy cars." In the event of a hard Brexit, second-hand car imports would be subject to tariffs - 10pc for petrol-engined cars and 20pc for diesels. Tariffs would almost certainly drastically reduce second-hand imports and boost new car sales, which fell by almost 5pc in 2018.  Sunday Indo Business 
