brexit
{ Colette Browne 
    July 31 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/colette-browne-as-johnson-merrily-leads-the-uk-over-the-brexit-cliff-corbyn-sits-paralysed-and-useless-on-the-fence-38361557.html }
Boris Johnson and his cabinet of Brexit Death Eaters are determined to drive the UK out of the EU and over a cliff. The man tasked with stopping them is Jeremy Corbyn. Truly, we are all doomed.  Imagine, for a moment, that in the wake of Fianna Fáil's collapse in the 2011 General Election, Fine Gael had failed to capitalise. That support had flocked, not to Fine Gael, but to a newly formed party with nothing more than a loudmouth leader and a trite catchphrase as a policy platform.  Would Enda Kenny have survived such an ignominious performance? Or would his own party, in an act of desperate self-preservation, have immediately gotten rid of him and never looked back? Now, consider Jeremy Corbyn. As the Tories implode into bitter recrimination and ugly factionalism over Brexit, how has he performed?  In May, the Conservative Party lost more than 1,300 seats in the UK's local elections. Incredibly, Labour, which had been quietly confident of winning at least 400, suffered a net loss of about 60.  In response to this appalling outcome, Mr Corbyn was certain of only one thing. The result meant that there was now "a huge impetus" on every MP to deliver Brexit.  "They've all got that message, whether they themselves are leave or remain," he said. "A deal has to be done, Parliament has to resolve this issue - I think that is very, very clear," he mused.  Mr Corbyn is obviously as bad at reading the electorate as he is at communicating with them. An opinion poll published shortly after that election showed the UK is hopelessly deadlocked between those who want to remain and those who want to leave with no deal, with both sides getting 39pc.  By contrast, those in favour of a deal in which the UK remains closely aligned with the EU, like the one Theresa May repeatedly tried and repeatedly failed to get through the House of Commons, amounted to just 13pc.  When it comes to Brexit, just one thing is clear. You have to pick a side. And Jeremy Corbyn has refused to do that. So support for Labour first began to trickle away. Now that trickle has turned into a flood.  Boris Johnson may be an odious charlatan, but he's no fool. He is a schemer and a plotter and his plan is pretty clear. To win a general election. To do so, he has picked a side and members of his cabinet - all of whom have signed a pledge committing to a no-deal Brexit on October 31 - are decked out in their Brexit jerseys.  He understands the Conservative Party is at a crossroads and will never be able to "out-remain" parties like the Liberal Democrats.  His only hope, therefore, is to grow the Tories by stealing the clothes of the Brexit Party so its supporters abandon Nigel Farage's latest ragtag outfit. He's also hoping to beguile disaffected Labour voters in Leave constituencies along the way.  Mr Johnson has picked a side. He has a plan. And he has a coherent message. Why has Mr Corbyn, in the three years since the Brexit referendum, failed to do any of these things?  Why are most of his party failing to point out the bleeding obvious - that his ineptitude is a liability that the Labour Party simply can't afford anymore?  Instead of a lucid policy on Brexit that can be neatly summarised in a pithy slogan by even the most inarticulate members of his party, it takes Labour Party members 10 minutes and much sweating to try to explain their party's garbled position.  They want a second referendum, but not really, and if there is a referendum no one is quite sure what the questions should be. When it comes to a general election policy on the issue, it will be a "Labour Brexit", which is about as useful a description as Theresa May's infamous "red, white and blue Brexit".  These people want to run the country, yet they can't even answer simple questions on the most consequential event facing the UK in more than 70 years.  Even eloquent party members like Keir Starmer, the party's Brexit spokesman and a former DPP and head of the Crown Prosecution Service, begins nervously stuttering and stammering when asked to explain what the party would be doing differently if it were in government and how it proposes to get the UK out of its current mess.  In a modern democracy facing such imminent peril, has there ever been an opposition party so useless, so vapid, so divorced from reality and so criminally negligent?  Yes, yes. We all know the Tories are worse. That they created this chaos. That Mr Johnson and his gormless chums around the cabinet table care far more about their careers than the country.  But, the ignobility, avarice and cluelessness of the right-wing MPs who have staged a coup of the Conservatives is not an excuse to descend to their level. It should prompt those within the Labour Party to rise to the challenge of opposition and chart a way forward. If not in their own self-interest, in the interest of their country.  Instead, they have been too busy bickering and messing to notice their Remain supporters have left in droves to vote for the Liberal Democrats - whose slogan, by the way, is the unequivocal "Bollocks to Brexit" - while their Leave supporters have thrown their hats in with the Brexit Party and now, if Mr Johnson's scheme works, the Tories.  It is beyond comprehension that in circumstances where every single economic forecast is that a no-deal Brexit will spell carnage for the country - where farmers have warned every sheep in the UK will have to be slaughtered if the UK crashes out of the EU and where the value of sterling is currently doing a nosedive as no-deal jitters grow across the globe - that there is no effective opposition in the UK shouting one simple thing: 'STOP'.  Just stop the madness. Take a breath. Choose a side. Then, make a decision. Mr Johnson has learned the lesson from Mrs May that he can't be all things to all people. So, he has chosen Brexit in its purest form.   By contrast, no one is quite sure what side Mr Corbyn is on. The only thing we know with any certainty is that he was tasked with marking one of the weakest prime ministers in British history and failed to even land a punch.  Unless the Labour Party ditches Mr Corbyn, or manages to find some way to knock him from the fence he's been sitting on for so long, Mr Johnson will win the election and a hard Brexit will be a certainty.  Those who suffer most, if that happens, will be the working-class communities that Labour professes to represent. They will not be kind to the party in the aftermath. Irish Independent 
