brexit
{  
    September 20 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/louth-leo-hosting-local-brexit-clinics-38503221.html }
The team at the Local Enterprise Office (LEO) Louth are offering free Brexit clinics with a specialist mentor to help businesses prepare for Brexit. Two upcoming clinics in Drogheda (27th September) and Dundalk (17th October) follow on from two very successful booked-out Brexit Clinics in the last few weeks. Sarah Mallon who co-ordinates the Brexit Clinics for business explains: 'It's a very useful process for any business owner. Book a free one hour appointment at our Brexit Clinic. Our mentor will call you ahead of the event to learn more about your business. On the day, our Brexit Mentor will work with you to diagnose the challenges Brexit is likely to cause your business and the actions you should take,' explains 'It's a great opportunity to learn about the state supports available to business such as InterTrade Ireland's Brexit Vouchers, Brexit Loan Scheme and training for you and your staff" she continues. "Your appointment with the Brexit Mentor will assist in identifying areas such as V.A.T., Customs & Tariffs, Currency Exchange, PAYE, Company Structures that need to be considered and begin to plan for you and your business.' To book a place at the clinic simply  contact the Local Enterprise Office on 1890 202 303 and ask for Sarah in the Brexit Mentor Clinic.  'Places booked out fast for previous clinics, don't hesitate, call me today to book your place,' said Sarah. Sarah concluded "And don't forget the free event "Brexit: The Practical Steps" event that takes place on 23rd September at the Crowne Plaza Hotel, Dundalk.  This morning session will be full of useful, practical, actionable steps for SMEs. Hosted by Minister Heather Humphreys, the event will include all the relevant state agencies and will provide excellent advice and support.  To book visit www.eventbrite.com and search for Brexit; The Practical Steps." The LEO Louth team are on hand to help businesses getting ready for Brexit. Book a free place at the Brexit Clinics in Dundalk and Drogheda by calling 1890 202 303. The local Brexit clinics are part of the                government's commitments to supporting business in preparing for Brexit.  Despite the uncertainty, Irish companies can and should be taking immediate action to mitigate the potential risks and position themselves to take advantage of the opportunities. Working together, state agencies have a range of supports, training, mentoring and funds available. The Argus 
