brexit
{ Richard Curran 
    September 27 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/brexit/richard-curran-corbyn-victory-in-uk-may-not-dig-us-out-of-the-brexit-mire-37358031.html }
An ever-larger number of people see what might be called a 'crisis of capitalism'. They see growing inequality and have a sense that public services are under-funded. Nowhere is that sense of disillusionment playing out more strongly than in Britain.  Brexiters latched on to the idea during the referendum campaign and portrayed the straightjacket of the European Union as the culprit. The solution presented by the winning Leave side was to get out of the EU, win back national political and economic freedoms, and contain the number of immigrants coming into the country. Equally, we are now seeing the analysis and response from the hard left - namely Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn and his treasury spokesman John McDonnell.  This week Mr McDonnell outlined what he genuinely believes will be an economic transformation capable of putting right the wrongs of untamed capitalism.  He said he wants to "redress the balance of power at work" away from an elite and towards those who create the wealth.  His suite of solutions includes: a compulsory share-ownership scheme where 10pc of the equity in the UK's largest companies would be gradually handed over to workers; force workers on to boards and an extensive programme of renationalisation in rail, water and other key sectors.  It is quite a contradiction to think these ideas are coming from a political party that wants to reject Theresa May's Brexit proposals and replace them with something that will protect business, employment and the economy.  There are so many misunderstandings about wealth creation at the heart of this set of proposals, not to mention what they tell us about the rationale behind the Labour leaderships floundering on Brexit.  First come the problems.  Under the proposed share-ownership plan, large British companies would be forced by law to create new shares and hand them over to a worker share trust. Workers would benefit from participation in this trust by receiving a portion of the company's dividends, up to around £500 per year. The rest would go to government.  This appears like a measure to help workers but, in fact, looks a lot like a new tax on business. Around £500 a year will not fundamentally change somebody's life circumstances.  The move would undermine the legal rights of existing shareholders who might want to challenge the legislation in courts. Because the measure kicks in on companies with more than 250 workers, it could discourage corporate growth, investment or listing on the stock market.  Anything that reduces the value of existing shareholders' interests could undermine the performance of pension funds, which invest workers' money.  Employee share-ownership schemes are a great idea.  Startup companies and state businesses have used them very successfully in the past. However, legislating to make them compulsory on existing businesses of scale is a very different proposition.  If the only mechanism to benefit workers is through dividends, what if the company decides not to pay dividends or simply cannot? Listed companies have propped up their share prices more through share buybacks in recent years than through higher dividends.  British employees of foreign firms would be excluded. In fact, many firms would probably delist from the UK and decamp elsewhere to avoid the measure.  Those looking with envy at the super rich in society can see they have large holdings of company shares. However, holding the shares doesn't make them rich. Selling the shares makes them rich, or in some cases borrowing in a risky way using the shareholding as collateral.  The initiative assumes that wealth is truly created by the workers while the investors just sit around counting their money.  There are no guarantees that companies with employee shareholdings will automatically perform better.  Some do and some don't.  Then there is the progamme of renationalisation. The state would have to find the hundreds of billions needed to buy back the rail and water companies. This would in turn saddle the British exchequer with higher debt repayments and the need for higher taxes. Imagine paying more taxes to fund potentially inefficient public utility companies and interest on the national debt, rather than using higher taxes for better public services in health and education?  There is also a whole other EU and Brexit dimension to this policy programme. Shareholders and businesses could go to court to challenge these new initiatives. If British courts backed the British government, they could appeal to the European Courts.  What would happen if the nationalised companies underperformed and needed more capital or a financial bailout? Britain would fall foul of EU state aid rules. And so some new light appears on the fudge behind the Labour Party leadership's Brexit policy. If Jeremy Corbyn backs a second "in or out" Brexit referendum, and the people want to remain, how much of his hard left economic programme could be implemented within the confines of EU membership and its rules? John McDonnell's economic transformation programme is somewhat predicated on the UK being outside of the EU.  The top of the Labour Party has substituted a hard right UKIP-style rationale for leaving with a hard left rationale.  A hard right populist nationalism in favour of Brexit would be replaced by a hard left economic programme that needed Brexit to be implemented.  The Labour Party is neck and neck with the Conservatives in the polls and will fancy its chances in a general election. It also sees an opportunity to trigger that election by voting down British Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit deal, assuming one does emerge.  The Labour Party's Brexit policy has been based on any new deal passing six tests. These tests are designed in such a way that no realistic Brexit deal could meet all six and so it has constructed the basis to reject whatever Mrs May comes up with.  For those of us on this side of the Irish Sea, the situation simply gets more depressing.  Irish businesses trying to make key decisions based on a particular Brexit outcome have been stymied by the pantomime and uncertainty. It is incredibly unlucky that at a time of such rampant political self-harm within the British Conservative Party, the Labour Party has its first eurosceptic leader in decades.  Mr McDonnell alluded to the possible chaos that might emerge in the coming months when he said: "The greater the mess we inherit, the more radical we have to be."  Perhaps he believes a chaotic Brexit is the best environment in which to introduce the kind of economic and business changes he believes will work.  However, if Britain bounces out of the EU without a deal and the economic damage is acute, he may find it even more difficult to implement policies that heap more uncertainty onto a fragile situation.  It is widely accepted that a no-deal Brexit will result in recession in Britain, not to mention the chaos that could follow from delays in the supply chain and the disruption to trade.  I am reluctant to suggest that a British general election could take the UK and to some extent Ireland, out of the economic frying pan into the fire, because it implies the current lot are a better option. But we have seen this week how a general election will throw everybody from one frying pan into another.   Indo Business 
