brexit
{  
    October 25 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/planned-investment-by-smes-postponed-or-cancelled-over-brexit-38601269.html }
As the UK's departure date from the European Union approaches, businesses in Sligo, Leitrim and Roscommon are reviewing their Brexit strategy due to the continued uncertainty.  Businesses who are largely exposed to Brexit, particularly those in the manufacturing sector are preparing for Brexit but are concerned about disruptions to their supply chain as their suppliers still fail to act.  Ornagh Rynn, AIB Brexit advisor for Sligo, Leitrim and Roscommon said: "It is clear from speaking to local businesses in Sligo, Leitrim and Roscommon that there are increased concerns over the possible knock on effects of a hard Brexit.  Businesses in the manufacturing sector are particularly concerned by the lack of planning implemented by their supply chain." Ornagh continued:"We recently held an AIB Brexit Workshop with clear feedback from our customers that those in manufacturing are more aware of the implications Brexit will have on their businesses, while local retailer are finding it more difficult to clearly see the potential impact on their day to day trade.  "I encourage businesses to get in touch to discuss how we can support their business to navigate through Brexit." The AIB Brexit Sentiment Index for Q3 2019 reveals that half of SMEs in the Republic of Ireland (ROI) (50%, +10%) and 66% in Northern Ireland (NI) (+28%) that had planned to expand or invest in their business have either cancelled or postponed planned investment due to Brexit.  The impact is being felt both north and south of the border with 45% of businesses in ROI and 47% in NI feeling the effects of Brexit already.  In line with this and given the continued uncertainty, businesses in the ROI continue to have negative outlook with 71% concerned about their business' future and 86% foresee a negative impact for the wider economy.  In NI they echo this sentiment where two in three (67%) now have a negative outlook on the future of their business. The Brexit Sentiment Index baseline is zero, with a potential range from +100 to -100. For Q3 2019, the Index registered a score of -51 in the ROI, a slight deterioration on -50 in Q2 2019. In comparison, NI has fallen to its lowest level ever recorded (-41), a fall of five points from Q2 2019.  Many sectors in ROI are at their most pessimistic since the index began with SMEs operating in manufacturing (-59) and transport (- 57) the most negative according to the research. In NI, SMEs operating in manufacturing (-48) registered as the most pessimistic since tracking began. The research also shows that 14% of ROI SMEs are postponing bank borrowing for capital investment while in NI there is reduced working capital demand (35%) due to Brexit.  AIB's Brexit Sentiment Index conducted by Ipsos MRBI is a quarterly survey of more than 700 SMEs in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland that assesses the attitudes of SME business leaders on Brexit and the impact on their businesses.  The AIB Brexit Sentiment Index is based on detailed telephone interviews conducted by IPSOS MRBI from its call centres in Dublin and Belfast among 500 SMEs in the Republic of Ireland and 200 in Northern Ireland, operating in a number of key defined sectors. Sligo Champion 
