brexit
{  
    March 03 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/it-came-to-sink-or-swim-time-so-we-had-a-go-at-swimming-36651035.html }
Despite the threats and challenges posed by Brexit, Wicklow firms remain upbeat as they plan for the future, writes Celine Naughton Perfumer David Cox is untroubled by the whiff of foreboding in the air over Brexit.  As managing director of Fragrances of Ireland, a company not just surviving but thriving after 35 years, he has a nose for business and plenty of experience of picking up on the scent of challenges ahead. In its early years, the Kilmacanogue-based company sold mainly in Ireland. Now, with 25 employees and an annual turnover of €6m, there's a good reason the business exports three times as much as it sells here. "We started the process of diversification during the recession," says Mr Cox. "That was sink-or-swim time. We had a go at swimming. Thankfully, we made it, with the positive consequence that we became almost entirely export-focused. We were lucky, but we worked hard. We still do. The perfume industry is highly competitive, with up to 300 new fragrances being launched every year. It's a process of attrition. You have to stay competitive." In terms of never wasting a good crisis, that experience has equipped him well to handle the outcome of Brexit, whatever that may be. "The British market makes up only ten percent of our business," he says. "Our concerns would be around tariffs, slowdowns at customs with queues and delays, and the extra bureaucracy that would be likely to come with a hard Brexit. It may not appear that important on the surface, but if it takes a day longer to ship goods to their destination, that's an extra cost and it will be reflected in the price of the product." When Fragrances of Ireland was founded in 1983, it was against a backdrop of existing borders in the North, no internet or mobile phones, and no euro currency. "We employed a customs clearance broker and had to run down with cheques to pay the import duties," says Cox. "When I look back, I'm amazed at how easy it is to do business today. Going to the USA used to be only for big companies. "Technology changed the playing field. The notion of going back to an '80s-style world of commerce doesn't bear thinking about." Taking a business trip back to the bad old days may appear as unlikely as it would be unpalatable, yet until B-day dawns in March 2019, nobody can say with certainty how things will pan out. Cox considers three possible scenarios: the British people will change their minds - "it's not impossible," he says - and the Brexit train stops in its tracks. Or it trundles along and comes to a hard or soft stop. Either way, is it likely to make a huge difference to the future of his company? "In practice, not really," he says. "With a hard Brexit it will be more difficult and more expensive to get materials in, but Britain is not going to stop trading. And particularly for the business we're in, I don't think people's personal preferences will change overnight. I don't see any reason why we wouldn't continue to trade in Britain. If we were dealing with a USA-exit, we'd find it more troubling. "Having said that, sterling is already down 10-15pc, and we're losing because of that, so it makes sense for us to diversify and open up more markets elsewhere in Europe." Further south in the Garden County, the Kerry Foods meat-processing plant in Shillelagh is one of the biggest employers in the region, and its Brexit strategy is prescribed by the parent Kerry Group. "We're well experienced in planning for various scenarios and streamlining activities, and we have a strong Brexit mitigation plan in place," says director of corporate affairs Frank Hayes. "We continually review efficiencies in order to operate successfully. Exploring adjacent markets and new opportunities, and driving innovation are part of our day-to-day activities. These things are not driven by Brexit alone. "We're constantly looking at changing trends. Consumers are looking for more convenience, different taste profiles, less sugar, lower salt, different portions, food to go... And then you have different demographics to cater for, Millenials, Gen Z, and an ageing population, all looking for different things." With 24,000 employees globally, markets in 140 countries and revenues of more than €6bn, the Kerry Group is an agri-food giant. At the other end of the scale, small businesses in Wicklow have the support of their Local Enterprise Office (LEO) to help them deal with the possible implications of Brexit. "We are getting feedback that business owners in Wicklow are concerned, particularly about currency fluctuations and the economic impact of Brexit in Britain having a knock-on effect here," says Sheelagh Daly, Head of Enterprise, Wicklow LEO. "We encourage every business to complete the Brexit Scorecard developed by Enterprise Ireland and available online. This helps you think about the possible implications of Brexit on your company. "At the very least it's a self-assessment of where you're at as a company. By doing this, you might think, 'Actually, I am a bit exposed,' or 'I don't know the answer to this - I'd better find out,' in which case we can help. None of us knows how Brexit will play out, but we urge business owners to take a cautious approach." Two sectors for which Wicklow is renowned - agri-food and tourism - may be at risk if a hard Brexit is imposed, and small enterprises may be particularly exposed. "In our county, we have a number of small artisan producers whose first foray into the export market is likely to be the UK and Northern Ireland," says Daly. "Its proximity and lack of a language barrier make it a comfortable choice, but the potential for significant food tariffs is clearly an issue for these companies. "It's not just about tariffs, it's logistics too. Delays at customs could be catastrophic for a company dealing with a product with a short shelf life that's sitting for a day or two to get through. "Tourism is another big sector for Wicklow. Threats include barriers to the movement of people and increased transport costs, leading to a reduction in the number of UK visitors coming here, but this is in tandem with the rest of the country, not only Wicklow. "On the positive side, in an effort to Brexit-proof your business, it helps to explore new markets, conduct internal reviews that can help you become as competitive as possible, increase productivity and become more innovative in what you do. "These are all really good things and never a waste of time."   For more information on Project Ireland 2040 visit the official website  
 
Close
 Wicklow People / Wicklow People 
