brexit
{ Richard Curran 
    September 20 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/brexit/richard-curran-10-reasons-why-a-no-deal-brexit-wont-happen-37334383.html }
The annual National Ploughing Championships is a good time to take stock. Beef farmers have seen factory gate prices slashed. Dry weather has hit tillage yields, while dairy farmers are already feeding their cows fodder they set aside for the coming winter.  But in the midst of all of these short-term and very immediate worries, the much bigger and longer term potential crisis of a no-deal Brexit still looms large. The ploughing event will bring together many of the people with most to lose from a hard or no-deal Brexit, from across rural Ireland, farming and the food sector. Many seasoned and experienced commentators put the chances of a no-deal Brexit as high as 50:50. As the Brexit deadline looms, the situation is getting ever-more complicated as the nuances of different positions are worked out. Yet, despite this brinksmanship, I don't believe a no-deal scenario - in which the UK is allowed to crash out of the EU - will come to pass. Here are 10 reasons why I think that won't happen: 1 Boris Bluster The biggest clamour for a no-deal Brexit is coming from the hard Brexiters led by Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg and former Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson. They have the microphone, when it comes to media exposure, but they do not have the numbers. Despite a disproportionately large media profile, the core hard Brexiters in the Conservative Party number just 50 MPS. Every time UK Prime Minister Theresa May has pushed them, they have backed down. They are strong on rhetoric and graphic metaphors about how bad the Government's proposed Chequers solution is, but they have still failed to come up with real alternatives. They are rhetoricians who lack substance. 2 Gove goes dove Another Brexiter, environment secretary Michael Gove, said this week that anything agreed in the negotiations by the British government can be changed by a different UK government. The idea being that once they are out of the EU, future British governments will have the capability to renegotiate any new relationship they want with the EU. It was a last throw of the dice. Mr Gove, who has reluctantly backed the Chequers plan, senses that a version of it will go through. Still trying to ride two horses, he has signalled that hard Brexiters might lose this battle, but the war will go on. 3 Not enough time The machinations of the Irish Border backstop and the future trading relationship between the EU and UK cannot be resolved by Christmas. Given that both sides agree to a transition period, there will be breathing space to fill in the gaps later or simply play for more time. The alternative is what President of the European Council Donald Tusk called a "catastrophic" no-deal Brexit. I would bet on the former. 4 Money talks British industry has finally become mobilised in the debate about the implications of crashing out with a hard Brexit. Jaguar Land Rover is cutting back staff to a three-day week and blaming Brexit uncertainty. Honda said that it currently can have car parts from Europe in the UK within five to 24 hours. In a hard Brexit, it would take a week. This will not play well with Jeremy Clarkson fans who need to get a new water pump or oil filter. Investment in the British motor industry is one-third of what it was in 2015. Big British businesses spent a long time hiding behind industry associations and lobby groups in questioning the logic of Brexit. In recent weeks they have begun spelling out the implications for their own shareholders, customers and employees. This is a much stronger message. 5 Media mood music Large sections of the British media have been backing the Brexiters. Any time Ms May sought to put Mr Johnson back in his box, she faced the ire of the Rupert Murdoch press in Britain (eg 'The Sun' and 'The Sunday Times'), as well as the 'Daily Mail' and the 'Daily Telegraph'. They cheered her early tough rhetoric about "Brexit means Brexit" and helped reduce the debate to a series of sound bites. There are signs of a softening of the debate. The headlines are a little less incendiary in some British papers. The 'Daily Mail' has a new pro-Remain editor, Geordie Greig. British broadcasters are now finally discussing in detail, issues like the Irish border and the implications of a hard Brexit. It has taken two years for any serious debate on the issue to avoid silly labels like 'Project Fear'. 6 Economic verdict Everybody who is anybody has delivered a damning economic indictment of the implications of a very hard Brexit. The most recent was the IMF managing director Christine Lagarde, who said the British economy will shrink if it tumbles out without a deal. 7 Brexit for slow learners It is extraordinary to see just how right many Irish analysts and civil servants were about where the Brexit project would ultimately go. Just two months after the referendum a senior Irish civil servant told me if we wanted to avoid a hard border in Ireland, there would have to be some kind of border down the Irish Sea. It has taken the British establishment a year and a half even to engage on the Border issue and now the discussion has got down to the very challenges people here predicted within hours of the referendum. 8 The Reds under the bed British labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is at heart a Eurosceptic. His dislike of the EU has led to a kind of static approach to the Brexit debate. He needs to oppose the Tory Brexiters, but doesn't want to alienate working class votes. It is as if he agrees with the Brexiters, but for a different set of reasons. He sees Brussels a massive international capitalist plot. Overall, the British Labour Party has been weak and ineffectual in providing an alternative voice on Brexit. But it wants power. The party seems willing to oppose any plan in the House of Commons if it will trigger an election. Conservatives are scared of Corbyn winning an election. This should ensure the hard Brexit voices in the party are held to a minority. Labour wants to vote against a "Chequers style" deal because it is too hard. Hard Brexiters will want to vote against it because it is too soft. Unfortunately, there is no 'Goldilocks' Brexit that is just right. If they vote together to shoot down a Ms May deal, an election will be called. This would be chaotic for Brexit for a while, but could result in everybody stepping back and buying more time rather than crashing out of the EU. 9 No-deal chaos Falling out of the EU without a deal would be utterly chaotic. The EU mightn't like it, but they could live with it. For the UK, the chaos would be too much. If somebody has to blink in all of this, it will be Ms May. She has been blinking non-stop since 2016. 10 This is how we do things If the EU and UK cannot agree on the legally binding details of an Irish border backstop or on how a Chequers-style relationship might work, they will forge ahead in vagueness. If the reality of the detail is too painful, then fudge it and buy time. This is how Brussels has worked for decades. I think we can expect a deal which will have a questionable vagueness on the backstop, because nobody actually has the answer. We will also see a withdrawal agreement with lots left unsaid. This will buy everybody time to enter the transition period and work it all out at some point in the future. The UK could be in transition for a very long time. But, as we saw at the Ploughing, it still pays to prepare for the unexpected. Indo Business 
