brexit
{ John Downing 
    September 30 2019 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/john-downing-as-johnsons-time-runs-out-and-his-options-diminish-ireland-faces-serious-questions-and-we-need-the-government-to-keep-us-better-informed-of-the-answers-38545992.html }
It was only 10 weeks ago - but in many ways it feels like 10 years. When he landed the big job on July 24, many of us assumed that behind the buffoonish bluster there was a canny politician with a target destination and a plan to take him there. The assumption of Boris Johnson's political sagacity had been based on the manner in which he successfully pursued the biggest job in UK politics, and to a lesser extent his election to two successful terms as mayor of London. But by now that assumption has been proved false. He has continued to rack up a series of hefty political losses over the last two months, showing an appalling lack of judgment. 
Close
 'Rachel Johnson deplored her brother's use of words such as "surrender'" and "capitulation".' Stock image: PA PA Wire/PA Images / He lost his party's slender parliamentary majority, went on to lose all his parliamentary votes, and then wilfully banished 21 of his party's middle-ground MPs, whose only crime was to have emulated his own earlier behaviour by voting against the government. He failed in his efforts to stop legislation blocking a no-deal Brexit. Then he failed to force an early general election because MPs were not ready to give him the necessary two-thirds majority for this. Last Tuesday morning, he suffered the biggest humiliation when the UK Supreme Court unanimously found he broke the law by suspending Parliament for five weeks. Parliament came back to noisy and ill-tempered sessions where he faced accusations of using excessive language which boded ill for future community tensions centred on Brexit. Even Boris Johnson's own sister accused him of using the House of Commons dispatch box as a "bully pulpit". Rachel Johnson deplored her brother's use of words such as "surrender'" and "capitulation". She told Sky News that it was "particularly tasteless" for him to tell friends of the murdered Labour MP Jo Cox that the best way to honour her memory was to deliver Brexit. Ms Cox was killed at the height of the Brexit referendum in 2016. Since then many prominent UK politicians have spoken of receiving threats of violence and there has been a great deal of intimidation. There is a real fear that there could be serious public unrest on the streets because of rising tempers over Brexit. And Boris is not helping. Now some very serious allegations around the prime minister's motivation in allowing a no-deal Brexit to happen are emerging. Again it began with Rachel Johnson, the prime minister's sister, when she was asked on BBC Radio 4's 'World at One' last Thursday, who could be behind the strategy to deliver Brexit in any shape or form. Her reply was remarkable: "It could be Dominic Cummings advising the prime minister to be extremely aggressive and to face down opposition from all sides of the establishment in order to secure his position as the tribune of the people." Then Ms Johnson continued: "It could be coming from my brother himself, he obviously thoroughly enjoys being prime minister. It could be from - who knows - people who have invested billions in shorting the pound or shorting the country in the expectation of a no-deal Brexit." The cudgels were then taken up by former UK finance minister Philip Hammond who delivered a broadside against the man who had sacked him from the party. "As his sister has reminded us, he is backed by speculators who have bet billions on a hard Brexit - and there is only one outcome that works for them: a crash-out no-deal Brexit that sends the currency tumbling and inflation soaring," Mr Hammond wrote in 'The Times' newspaper. From there, the Labour Party's John McDonnell went a step further, writing to the UK government's most senior civil servant, cabinet secretary Mark Sedwill. The letter seeks an investigation into alleged conflicts of interest with currency speculators, pointing to widespread reports of increases in short positions being taken against sterling in the lead-up to a possible no-deal Brexit. It's all pretty hefty stuff. But Boris Johnson continued to try putting the bright side out as his Conservative Party began its annual conference in Manchester on Saturday. That event will continue until Wednesday and Johnson and his supporters will take what courage they can from Brexit-supporting party members' adulation. But yesterday a two-page advertisement in the Conservatives' own staunchly supporting newspaper 'The Sunday Telegraph' told us a lot about where the gut struggle around Brexit is being fought. The advertisement came from Nigel Farage and his Brexit Party and directly addressed Conservative Party members. It warned that "the people won't accept Boris reheating Theresa May's surrender treaty". The advertisement attacks Boris Johnson and warns he has been "cosying up to EU leaders" seeking a deal which would be a "reheated version of Mrs May's Withdrawal Agreement with a tweaked Irish backstop". The text warns that this is not Brexit - and not what 17.4 million UK citizens voted for in June 2016. It all starkly reminds us that a UK general election will happen soon and it will be a huge fight for the half of the nation's voters who backed leaving the EU. Boris Johnson's big hope - and only real chance of political redemption - is fighting that election having delivered Brexit on time as he has "do or die" promised. He can deliver Brexit via a deal, which still seems a long-shot given the UK's lack of real engagement with the EU and its failure to table real compromise proposals in writing. Something would have to change very rapidly this very week as Tánaiste Simon Coveney told the 'Sunday Independent' yesterday. If that happened it would be a major surprise. The other route being speculated upon is some form of legal sleight of hand to get around the legislation passed by MPs obliging him to ask the EU for yet another extension. That is a prospect he has summed up by saying he would "die in a ditch" first. The legal dodges being rumoured include an order from government to over-ride the no-deal blocking legislation. That would surely end up back in the courts and a likely further legal slap-down. The other would be putting in a blatantly insincere extension request to the EU leaders. Again that could end up in court. Another option may be getting another EU member state to veto an extension and deprive it of the necessary unanimous backing. This has been around for a while, with Hungary being cited as a possible veto candidate. Mr Johnson notably did not rule it out in a BBC interview yesterday. The bigger and more challenging question for Ireland is what action to take. Mr Coveney has said preparations are being stepped up and talks with the EU Commission are aimed at avoiding chaos on the Irish Border in the first few days. We're told the EU will turn "a blind eye" temporarily to cross-Border trade for a time. But that will only be temporary. Brussels-Dublin talks must be ramped up - and the Government must start communicating the bad news to all of us. Irish Independent 
