politics
{  
    August 04 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-great-political-debate-should-the-seanad-be-abolished-29470866.html }
<strong>Making the case for and against:</strong> The last days of Ireland's unreformed Seanad saw political debate reach a series of new lows. This was all the more surprising given that this is a house that prides itself on being somewhat more refined than its Dail masters.  There was scant evidence of that refinement as senators fought like cat and dog, and senator Jim Walsh declared a somewhat quixotic war on those 'pseudo liberals and pseudo feminists', otherwise known as ordinary Irish women. Such was the level of bitterness that the Taoiseach was compared to Robert Mugabe, and Richard Bruton to Goebbels. If the fate of the Seanad really represents a battle for the future of Irish democracy, one would have hoped that the debate would be somewhat more civilised. Two former close allies, Brian Hayes, Minister of State for Public Service Reform, and Paul Bradford, the former Fine Gael senator who is now an independent are -- like brothers in the civil war -- split on this fundamental democratic issue. Today, they attempt to provide the electorate with the debate they deserve as distinct to the debate which they have had so far. Abolishing the upper house would say to the public that we are serious about reforming our politics THIS referendum isn't about how much the Seanad costs or what savings would accrue from its abolition. The Government's argument for abolition, instead, is that a reformed Dail can and will do better. In making such a claim, it should be noted we take any change to the Constitution seriously. Since Independence, our continuous parliamentary democracy has, by and large, served us well. Ireland didn't go the way of fascist Europe in the Thirties or Forties while a bloody civil war was brought to a quick end by the existence of the Dail for those on both sides of the divide. But when over 250,000 jobs have been lost to the economy, have we the luxury to consider Leinster House immune to reforms that have abolished most town councils, reduced the number of councillors by a third, and seen public service numbers reduced by some 40,000? Why, when first-class democracies of similar size to Ireland have opted for one House of Parliament, do we need two? Going around my constituency in the last election, the people said that we would never hold a referendum to abolish the Seanad. The public didn't believe that Enda Kenny was prepared to give the P45 to a fifth of his parliamentary party. In truth, few in Fine Gael ever believed that this referendum would happen. Yet that's what's happening. A clear commitment was given and now it's a matter for the people to decide. Is it really such a strange idea, to let the people decide if they want a Seanad or not? Yet since its establishment, the one group to have been consistently ignored are the self-same Irish people. The effect of this radical proposal, and believe me, it is just that, especially for the political establishment, will be to finally resolve an issue that every political party has talked about. Recently a friend in England explained to me the support that exists for their holding a referendum on Europe. He put it well when he said, "no one ever asked me or my generation about Europe – we just want a say." Much the same argument applies to the Seanad, regardless of outcome. I'm not suggesting that abolishing the Seanad is a quick fix for politics in this country. In fact, it's only a start, but it's a good start that says to the public that we are serious about reforming our politics. Difficult as it is for a politician to effectively amputate an arm of parliament, if we are to have any credibility before the electorate, we must do as we say. Maybe we need a talking shop for while the Seanad can either amend or delay legislation, its primary role is to provide a space for talking out loud. And simply aping the Dail is not much use to post-crash Ireland. The Seanad isn't to blame for what happened to this country. I blame those at the wheel and their useless, non-existent regulatory system. I also blame myself for not speaking out more and not being more contrary. Ultimately for the Government, winning this referendum isn't about how much the Seanad costs. Our argument for abolition is that a reformed Dail can and will do better. This will be the hardest part of this campaign – proving to people that we are serious about changing the Dail and the vice-like grip the Executive holds over it. We must make the case that the Dail can do the job that people expect of a modern legislature. Longer sittings, proper enquiries, proper committee scrutiny, holding public officials and ministers to account; that's the agenda we have been mandated to deliver, and that's the debate that should dominate the referendum campaign. Put simply, people wouldn't entertain the notion of the need for a second House of Parliament if we had a properly functioning Dail. Post-crash politics in Ireland must be leaner, fitter and more responsive than that which went before. We must re-imagine a politics where every decision is justified from the perspective of those ordinary citizens who have lost so much. Nothing really makes sense without doing that. There are some politicians in the Seanad with the ability to lead and inspire change in our society. We need them in the Dail, making a difference where it counts. I repeat, the winning of this referendum is not about the Seanad and its role in the Constitution. The winning of the referendum is all about convincing the public that we can deliver radical change to the Dail and how it operates. Now it's over to the public. Brian Hayes TD is Minister of State at the Department of Finance A second chamber allows for different views to be heard, and so we should be wary of governments telling us that less debate is better WHEN the Government Chief Whip brought letters to the floor of the Seanad, to tell Senator Fidelma Healy Eames and me that we were being booted out of Fine Gael because of our opposition to the Government's abortion legislation, the message was not a surprise. However, the real irony for me was that free speech was being punished just as we in the Seanad were debating the need for a second chamber in Irish politics. I have always said that one of the big reasons for a strong second chamber is that it provides a space and a place for different, sometimes uncomfortable, views. The Government Whip's letter made that argument better than I ever could. I've been fortunate to have served in both Dail and Seanad. Both feature men and women who set out to serve the public and to make a difference. The sad thing is they rarely get a chance to do so. But the Seanad, because of its unusual political make-up, large percentage of independent voices, and less of the Dail-style Punch & Judy politics, has always had room for alternative views; for Mary Robinson, Maurice Manning, Shane Ross, David Norris, the late Nuala Fennell and many more. We've had debates in Seanad Eireann which have literally changed our country. Brave political speeches have contributed to major policy changes on divorce, family planning, civil partnership, social policy, and much more. Almost all of these debates were initiated in the Seanad because the topics were too politically difficult for Dail Eireann. It is many, many years since former Senator William Butler Yeats used the upper house to defend minorities, and that fine tradition is still a feature of our Seanad. I know I am a 'Seanad turkey' who doesn't want to vote for Christmas. But my profound belief in real political reform is why I must challenge the Government's wish to scrap the Seanad. Ireland needs new politics. But new politics is not just a slogan. It is much more than an easy option of attacking the political weak link in Leinster House, while ignoring the massive changes needed in Dail Eireann itself, and across all of our local authorities. Will we get any of this? No chance. I have said many times that the Seanad needs to change. It needs reform. It needs a new system of election involving every Irish citizen. That's why Fine Gael, as recently as 2009, proposed that every citizen would have a vote in Seanad elections. A week is a long time in politics but I can't pretend I don't remember the political realities of 2009 which may have brought about our Seanad U-turn. The simple fact of the matter is that the competition between the then Opposition parties of Fine Gael and Labour made, as it always does in Opposition, short term populist ideas much more attractive than mature, considered politics. In a few months, the Irish people will decide. The start of the debate was dominated by the off-the-wall claim that abolishing the Seanad would save €20m per year. Value for money is important, but if we want to talk costs, the Seanad is in a ha'penny place when compared with, for example the plethora of unelected, very highly paid government advisers and assistants, many of whom are earning twice the salary of a senator. But we can't put a price on democracy, so this referendum must be about real reform and the need for better politics. If we want to pretend that 60 fewer senators will give us better politics, we should agree that cutting the Dail in half would make things even better! Or maybe we should have no Dail – just a government. If we should beware of Greeks bearing gifts, we should be even more wary of governments telling us that less democracy and less debate is better. The political tone of Dail politics has changed dramatically with more power to fewer people, less respect for difference, the famous guillotine of debates and the harsh rule of the Whip. That's bad news not just for Irish politics, but for Ireland. I want more debate, not less. I want more political argument, not less. I want more decision-makers, not fewer. I want respect for political difference, not suspicion and intolerance. A reformed Seanad, building on its tradition of diversity, respect and tolerance, will safeguard free speech, balance and real democracy in Irish politics. Paul Bradford is an Independent Senator. He was expelled from the Fine Gael parliamentary party on July 16. Sunday Independent 
