politics
{  
    November 01 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/movies/why-these-wily-political-thrillers-get-my-vote-26488973.html }
As America gears up for perhaps the most momentous presidential election in decades, Hollywood has added its tuppence ha'penny to the national debate with two heavy-hitting political films. Oliver Stone's incendiary biopic of departing President George W Bush, which opens here next week, was released last month in the US in the hopes of dissuading the American electorate from voting in a Republican successor. And soon to be released will be another reminder of Republican scandal in the White House, Ron Howard's Frost/Nixon. Stone's W I have not seen, but it will be interesting to see if he manages to restrain his extreme distaste for the Bush cabal long enough to create a balanced film. His track record in the field of political impartiality is not encouraging, and the film's deliberate release in time for the elections does not bode well, though a hatchet job could make for entertaining viewing. And he's amassed a strong cast that includes Josh Brolin as George W, Richard Dreyfuss as Dick Cheney, Scott Glenn as Donald Rumsfeld, and Thandie Newton as Condoleezza Rice. Frost/Nixon I have been lucky enough to see a preview of, and without giving too much away I think it will trouble the scorers come Oscar time and looks set to go down as one of the great political films. Based on the play by Peter Morgan, it stars Frank Langella and Michael Sheen, and revolves around the legendary interviews disgraced former President Richard Nixon granted to TV wide boy David Frost in 1977. It opens here after Christmas. In the meantime, however, its excellence got me thinking about some of the other great political films, and which might be among the best. And compiling a list is not as simple as it sounds, because for a start you have to define your terms. For instance I'm a huge fan of All The President's Men, but despite the title and the underlying subject it's not really a film about politicians but rather the heroic (and how often do you get to put these two words together?) journalists who pursue them. Kubrick's Dr Strangelove often appears on top 10 political film lists, but could only be considered political in the broadest possible sense. No, for our list we want actual politicians please, and preferably corrupt ones (they're more fun to watch). Among the funniest and most overtly cynical political films ever made was Preston Sturges' The Great McGinty (1940). It was the flawed, anarchic genius's first film, and he sold the screenplay to Paramount for $10 on the condition that they'd let him direct it. And thank God he did because it's a comic masterpiece, as Brian Donlevy memorably plays Dan McGinty, a pugilistically inclined Irish- American bum who impresses a local political boss by voting for him 37 times in a rigged mayoral election. He eventually rises to the top of the pile himself, then ruins a promising political career with a moment of reckless honesty. Frank Capra's Mr Smith Goes to Washington (1939) is another classic from that era, though rather more dreamily idealistic. Jimmy Stewart plays a high-minded rooky senator who overcomes the venality of political life in Washington by staging a marathon filibuster -- a protest speech that has no end. It's a tear-to-the-eye classic, if not especially plausible. If Citizen Kane (1941) could be considered a political film, it would surely be the best of the lot. And in fairness it does involves a failed attempt to run for governor that's foiled by the revelation of a sexual scandal, and you can't get much more quintessentially political than that. Welles' booming set-piece hustings speeches are the political highlight of the film, and he manages in those moments to be both a plausible politician and a terrifying megalomaniac, backed by that giant, ominous banner bearing his face. But ultimately Kane probably doesn't qualify. These days The Last Hurrah (1958) would be considered one of John Ford's lesser known films, but it's a terrific indictment of the realities of American city politics, and is of especial interest from an Irish perspective. Spencer Tracy delivers a wonderfully wicked performance as Frank Skeffington, a wily old Irish-American mayor who's determined -- at any cost -- to get re-elected. The character was based on cunning four-time Boston mayor James Michael Curley. In many ways, Otto Preminger's 1962 film Advise and Consent was way ahead of its time. Based on a Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by Allen Drury, it starred Henry Fonda as an up-and-coming politician whose nomination for secretary of state draws out all the Washington dirty tricks. As his communist past is dredged up, another senator ends up taking his own life when his homosexuality is exposed. This thrilling drama feels uncomfortably modern. Robert Redford may not have made it onto our list with All The President's Men, but he definitely does for The Candidate (1972), a telling indictment of the corrosive effect politics seems to exert on the human soul. He is Bill McKay, a 30-something liberal California lawyer who's been determined not to follow his father into politics until he's persuaded by a wily election specialist to stand for the Democrats in a senatorial race. Assuming he hasn't a chance of getting elected, McKay enjoys the experience. But when things get serious his liberal values are eroded by oily advisers, his pro-abortion, anti-gun stances disappear and his campaign is reduced to the slogan 'For a better way, Vote McKay!'. And more recently? Well in fairness to poor old Ollie Stone, whose work tends to get dismissed by us and others, his 1995 biopic of Richard Nixon was actually surprisingly good -- and balanced. In Nixon, the resolutely anti-Republican Stone might have been expected to do a number on the 37th President, but instead he presented an absorbing portrait of a flawed man who might have been capable of greatness. Give me Frank Langella over Anthony Hopkins any time, however. W is released nationwide on Friday pwhitington@independent.ie 
