politics
{ Alan Ruddock 
    November 19 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/our-lives-are-in-their-hands-but-we-do-not-know-them-26418813.html }
EVEN the most casual observer of American politics will know that appointments to the US Supreme Court are high-drama events. These are legacy moments, when a president can, through his choice, leave a mark on American society. The ratification of a president's selection by Congress can be a bruising process. Candidates fall by the wayside, either cast out by the politicians who must endorse them or withdrawing once it becomes apparent that they have no chance of making it through. Their records are pored over and their past judgments analysed. It is far from being a perfect process and can become a political dogfight rather than a judicial selection, but the fact that it happens underlines the seriousness of the appointment. In Ireland, though, we barely notice when a Supreme Court judge is appointed and rarely, if ever, discuss the relative merits of the potential candidates - largely because we do not even know who they are. The Taoiseach of the day makes his choice, the President makes the appointment and that is that: no debate, no analysis, no examination. Even when the appointment has been made, the media's interest is muted and the Dail's involvement is non-existent throughout the process. When Nicholas Kearns was elevated to the Supreme Court he merited a brief mention in the papers, but little more. At the end of a short biographical note in the Irish Times, we were told that "He is married to Eleanor, and they have four sons. He has been associated with the Progressive Democrats". A reference to a judge's political affiliations, however tenuous, is thrown in at the end without explanation or justification. It should not matter what way a judge votes in the privacy of the polling booth, and it certainly should not play a part in his or her promotion to high office, yet in Ireland it does. All judicial appointments are political affairs and there is no proper overseeing of how a judge is selected. The taoiseach chooses, the president appoints and the judge sits on the bench until he retires. The case of Judge Brian Curtin has shown us how desperately we need new systems for getting rid of judges short of impeachment. The present system is one that diminishes confidence in the judiciary and brings it far too close to the political world from which it must remain independent. There is no doubt that Justice Kearns is amply qualified to be a member of the Supreme Court, and there is also no doubt that he will be fiercely independent of politics while exercising his duties. Yet, no matter his individual qualities, he too suffers by association with a selection process that is overtly political and which carries no adequate checks or balances. Supreme Court judges are critical players in our democracy, the arbiters of our constitution and the final court of appeal. The composition of that court matters to each one of us, and we deserve the right to explore the character and qualities of each candidate before they are given a job from which they will never be fired. Their independence is vital to how they are perceived, and vital to their roles. As the European Judges Charter states plainly: "The selection of Judges must be based exclusively on objective criteria designed to ensure professional competence. Selection must be performed by an independent body which represents the Judges. No outside influence and, in particular, no political influence, must play any part in the appointment of Judges." Yet in Ireland it does. Following the retirement last week of Catherine McGuinness, and the earlier move to tribunal land of Brian McCracken, we now have two potential vacancies in our Supreme Court that Bertie Ahern will fill before the next election. Who will he choose, and what criteria will he use? Who knows. Will his choices be politically motivated? You can bet your mortgage they will. Ahern is a man who agonises over the most minor placement and teases out the possibilities of every junior ministerial appointment, so it defies logic to believe that when it comes to the greatest prize which he can bestow that he will magically put aside politics and discover altruism. The man or woman he chooses will, of course, meet all the basic requirements for the job, but will he choose the best, or will he choose one of the next best because of the way they vote? And will the Supreme Court be deprived of a great mind, and receive a lesser one? The appointment of judges matters at every level, not just the Supreme Court, yet no proper scrutiny ever applies. The Judicial Appointments Advisory Board (JAAB), established in 1995, does not even operate as a clearing house for candidates: it simply assembles a list of names and sends them on to government. It does not interview candidates, it does not headhunt candidates and it does not assemble its list of names in any order of preference. And after all that, the government can simply ignore its list and appoint anyone it chooses. It is nonsense. The JAAB exists simply to provide government with the thinnest veneer of respectability and serves no other purpose. The system is rotten and demands reform. The Dail must have a role in properly evaluating candidates for the Supreme Court and must be afforded an opportunity to examine them, and the JAAB must have the power to present a short list which cannot be ignored. For the lower courts, too, the JAAB must play a proactive role in seeking out the best candidates for each vacancy, and must be allowed present a list of contenders from which the government must be obliged to choose. Politics must play no part in the process, and no judge should ever feel the pressure, however oblique, to stay sweet with government or forever lose his chance of advancement. Despite the politicisation of their selection, Ireland's judges have a fine tradition of independence, but it is just a tradition. They deserve to be freed of all political association, and their independence needs to stem from more than fortunate convention. That independence must be demonstrable, and that can only come from a selection process that defies political interference. The relevance of the Supreme Court to our democracy has become ever more apparent in recent years. Whether kicking out our laws on statutory rape, or interpreting constitutional amendments in such a way as to contradict what was intended by the people, or deciding on adoption rights or even determining when legal protection can be afforded to human life, the courts are being asked to play a role that is more properly the remit of the Dail. Political cowardice has played a large part in bringing us to this place - politicians run in fear of moral and social decisions - and that cowardice has placed the courts, not the legislature, at the centre of our lives. This is not their role. Judges cannot be expected to replace the will of the people, and must not be expected to fill the voids left by politicians who are too timid to legislate. As US Federal Court judge Diarmuid F. O Scannlain wrote, "A politician in robes is no judge at all. Once a judge imposes his will as legislator, he loses his democratic legitimacy . A judge who wields power like a politician enters the political process. Having forsaken neutrality, he will soon lose hisindependence. The people will allow a judge to be independent only for as long as they perceive him as truly neutral, forsaking decisions based upon his own interests and biases." Without urgent reform, we risk destroying the fine balance that constitutional republics rely upon. The judiciary must be cut free from politics, and the taoiseach's right to pick his own men, without scrutiny or accountability, must be ended. Judges, too, must be given the mechanisms that would allow them to discipline themselves without outside political interference: they need to be accountable, but their independence must not be compromised in the process. For the moment, though, we have the worst of all worlds. Our politicians shirk their responsibilities to legislate in areas of public controversy - such as abortion, in-vitro fertilisation, adoption - and dump their failures on the courts. Yet they fail to provide an appointment procedure that is outside the political ambit. The proper balance must be restored. Independent judges must "confront the law as it is written and the facts in evidence" as O Scannlain said; and elected representatives must have the courage to make law. The roles are separate, and deliberately so. Ahern's legacy moment is upon him, and the script writers of the West Wing would have been weak with excitement at the prospect of not one but two Supreme Court appointments. A real legacy, however, would be if he changed the system, not just chose the judges. 
