politics
{ Paul Bradford  member of Seanad ireann 
    September 24 2013 02:28 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/beware-government-saying-less-democracy-is-more-29603011.html }
LAST month a surprise visitor called to the Seanad. It was the Government chief whip, bringing letters to Senator Fidelma Healy Eames and to me telling us that we were booted out of the Fine Gael parliamentary party because of our opposition to the Government's abortion legislation. The message was not a surprise, but the real irony for me was that free speech was being punished just as we in the Seanad were debating the need for a second chamber in Irish politics. I have always said that one of the big reasons for a strong second chamber is that it provides a space and a place for different, sometimes uncomfortable, views. The Government whip's letter made that argument better than I ever could. I've been fortunate to have served in both Dáil and Seanad. Both places feature men and women who set out to serve the public and to make a difference. The sad thing is they rarely get a chance to do so. But the Seanad, because of its unusual political make-up, large percentage of independent voices, and less of the Dáil style Punch & Judy politics, has always had room for alternative views. I am privileged to have served alongside senators such as Mary Robinson, Maurice Manning, John Robb, John A Murphy, Joe O'Toole, Shane Ross, Lábhras Ó Murchú, David Norris, the late Nuala Fennell and many many more. We've had debates in Seanad Éireann which have literally changed our country. Brave political speeches on the floor of the second chamber have contributed to major policy changes on divorce, family planning, civil partnership, social policy, Northern Ireland and much more. Almost all of these debates were initiated in the Seanad because the topics were too uncomfortable and too politically difficult for the normal party politics of Dáil Éireann. It is many, many years since former Senator William Butler Yeats used the Upper House to defend minorities, and that fine tradition has to this day been a feature of our Seanad. I know I am a 'Seanad Turkey' who doesn't want to vote for Christmas. But my profound belief in real political reform is why I must challenge the government's wish to scrap the Seanad. Ireland needs new politics. But new politics is not just a slogan. It is much more than an easy option of attacking the political weak link in Leinster House, while ignoring the massive changes needed in Dáil Éireann itself, and across all of our local authorities. Brave political reform would consist of changes to our electoral system, a significant reduction in Dáil numbers, a different relationship between Dáil and government, and a real transfer of genuine powers to local government. Will we get any of this? No chance. I know, and I've said many times, that the Seanad needs to change. It needs reform. It needs a new system of election involving every Irish citizen. The current election system is a mystery to most people. That's why Fine Gael, as recently as 2009, proposed that every citizen would have a vote in Seanad elections. That's why Fine Gael proposed that the powers of Seanad Éireann be greatly enhanced. That's why Fine Gael proposed, again in 2009, that the second chamber would play the leading role in examining European Union legislation and its impact on Ireland. And that's why I'm so surprised that a few months later we reversed all these ideas and said that the Seanad should be abolished! A week is a long time in politics but I can't pretend I don't remember the political realities of 2009 and the pressures which may have brought about our Seanad u-turn. The simple fact of the matter is that the competition between the then Opposition parties of Fine Gael and Labour made, as it always does in Opposition, short term populist ideas much more attractive than mature, considered politics. "Scrap the Seanad" was not just populist - it was also popular. And it was a much better way of winning Dáil votes and seats, than genuine political reform could ever be. That's the past. Next month the Irish people will decide. The start of the debate was dominated by the cost of Seanad Éireann, and the off-the-wall claim that abolition would save €20m per year. Value for money politics is important, but I would argue that the 60 Senators who each earn approximately €60,000 per annum and are each provided with one poorly paid secretarial assistant, are not where the cuts should start. What about the 166 TDs whose salaries are €90,000, and all of whom have very generous allowances for extra staff, and constituency offices? What about the unelected but very highly paid plethora of government advisors and assistants, many of whom are earning twice the salary of a senator? What about all the additional allowances for Dáil and Committee positions? If we want to talk costs, the Seanad is in a halfpenny place. But we can't put a price on democracy, so this referendum must be about real reform and the need for better politics. If we want to pretend that 60 Senators less will give us better politics, we should agree that cutting the Dáil in half would make things even better! Or maybe we should have no Dáil - just a government!! I am less concerned about bigger politics or smaller politics. What is more important is better politics. The question I'm most often asked is - what does the Seanad do? The lack of media coverage means that very few citizens see or hear the detailed, serious work which is the daily staple of senators. Hundreds of amendments being argued in minute detail, major changes to legislation being enacted, constructive criticism of government, and entirely new laws - that is what Senators do. And that's important work. Beware of Greeks bearing gifts. But be very aware of governments telling you that less democracy is more. And that less debate is better. The political tone of Dáil politics has changed dramatically in recent times. And it's not for the better. More power to fewer people, less respect for difference, rubber stamping of laws, the famous guillotine of debates and the harsh rule of the whip. That's bad news not just for Irish politics, but for Ireland. I want more debate, not less. I want more political argument, not less. I want more decision makers, not fewer. I want respect for political difference, not suspicion and intolerance. A reformed Seanad, building on its tradition of diversity, respect and tolerance, will safeguard free speech, balance and real democracy in Irish politics. Corkman 
