politics
{ Alan Ruddock 
    December 14 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/keeping-the-eu-loony-fringe-at-bay-26237923.html }
AS THE European Union takes yet another giant stride towards the political union that has always been the goal of its creators, the debate, such as it is in Ireland,  operates on the premise that we have nothing to add, no levers to pull, no interests to pursue. Which is pragmatic, if gutless: we are a bit-player in our own destiny, our own futures determined by whatever backr AS THE European Union takes yet another giant stride towards the political union that has always been the goal of its creators, the debate, such as it is in Ireland, operates on the premise that we have nothing to add, no levers to pull, no interests to pursue. Which is pragmatic, if gutless: we are a bit-player in our own destiny, our own futures determined by whatever backroom deals are hammered out between France, Germany, Spain, Poland and Britain. With the notable exception of the Nice embarrassment, we have rolled along with the EU's relentless metamorphosis from single market to single political entity, seduced along the way by European cash and by the political belief that membership of the EU lifted us out of our serf-like dependence on Britain. Irish entry into first the European Monetary System, and then the euro was as much about a conscious break from Britain as it was about considered self-interest: we did it because we could, we thought, stand as an equal partner alongside Britain, surrounded by our European allies. Such a narrow definition of our self-interest - nothing more, nothing less than a misplaced sense of pride and inferiority - has undermined our ability to engage seriously and intelligently with Europe's evolution. It ignored the economic reality of our relationship with Britain, ignored our cultural similarities and sought to pretend that we could be New Europeans, part of a new society that had shed its historical baggage and was creating a new beginning. The European Constitution attempts to bring that new society closer still. Dominated, as always, by the interlinked ambitions of France and Germany to set the agenda for economic and political unity, we are heading remorselessly towards a European Union that wants to behave like a superstate, even if it does not have a superstate's key attributes. It was evident, long before the latest Iraq war, that France and Germany want Europe to be a counterweight to US ambitions, that they crave the power and influence that only superstate stature for Europe can convey. Yet their desire for ever-deeper integration operates in isolation from two very basic questions: is deeper integration in the best interest of Europeans, and is it what they want? The answers, if you look at poll upon poll across Europe, are uncomfortable: Europeans of many different nationalities have grown disenchanted with, and disengaged from, the European Union. For many it represents waste, bureaucracy, self-perpetuating political elites and lack of accountability. The Constitution is meant to play a lead role in restructuring the EU so that it can cope with the rapid expansion laid down in the Nice Treaty and can improve its accountability as well as its efficiency. It makes a good attempt, but at the same time it pushes integration harder still. Tax harmonisation, common defence and foreign policies, majority voting may or may not happen this time round, but their day draws inexorably nearer. This Constitution is by no means the end of the road: it is just another, significant, staging post. The questions we should be concerned about are very basic ones: Is it right that Europe should move towards a unified political and economic system that is bureaucratic and inflexible, a Europe characterised by high labour costs, invasive employment legislation, high taxes, low growth and high unemployment? Is a Europe without any internal competition the correct model to ensure our future prosperity? To answer the questions, however, we would have to have an honest debate, but lack of honesty has always characterised debates about Europe. From the outset, the goal of political integration has been clear in French and German minds, but has often been obscured in debates in Ireland and Britain because it was deemed unpalatable. The British are now stuck with the most dishonest debate of all, led by a prime minister who preaches that Britain must be at the heart of Europe, who wants his country to join the Euro, yet who refuses to acknowledge that the whole process is inextricably bound up with the very political integration that he publicly opposes. In Ireland there is virtually no debate any more: The political establishment - the main political parties, the trades unions, the employers, the print and broadcast media - speaks with one voice. CREDIBLE opposition to European integration is not heard and no serious alternatives are offered. In truth, we have gone too far down the road to change course now, but that does not mean that we cannot argue passionately for a Europe that actually seeks to meet the needs of its citizens rather than the ambitions of its political elite. Our position must be to ensure that our economy and economies across Europe can be vibrant and competitive; that the institutions of the European Union are transparent and accountable; that the Franco-German axis does not steamroll the rest of Europe; that the Union remains on one course, not split in two by the broader political ambitions of the French and Germans who have threatened to breakaway into a fasttrack club if their ambitions are thwarted. If this means standing shoulder-to-shoulder with Britain, Spain and Poland (countries that also stood alongside America and against France and Germany during the Iraq war) then so be it. It is not an anti-European, or Euro-sceptic stance: quite the opposite, in fact, because what we should be trying to ensure is Europe's future prosperity and stability as it expands to embrace more and more individual nations. The line in the sand - or the redline, in Tony Blair-speak - needs to be a brake on further political integration, an end to the constitutional creep that brings us deeper and deeper into a Europe that would be wrong for us, and wrong for the rest of Europe. The best counter-weight to American power is through economic power, not political posturing. Europe will thrive if its economies thrive, and that outcome is threatened, not encouraged, by the degree of integration coveted by the French and Germans. Unless that line is drawn, the arguments that swirl around the Constitution are little more than a political game - compromises will be agreed, concessions to integration banked, and then the next stage will begin. It is a process that, for the moment, can have only one outcome, and it is happening with barely a thought for the people of Europe. As Gisela Stuart, a New Labour MP in Britain who sat on the Convention that drew up the constitution, wrote: "Not once in the 16 months I spent on the Convention did representatives question whether deeper integration is what the people of Europe want, whether it serves their best interests or whether it provides the best basis for a sustainable structure for an expanding Union." That is no basis for the future. We will have an opportunity, once again, to call a halt when the referendum on the Constitution is called, but like the second Nice debate it will be hard to hear reasoned arguments for saying "No". It will be timed, no doubt, after some other European countries have already ratified it (unless they, too, fall foul of their electorates, or the Poles dig their heels in) and will be dominated by red herrings and the loony fringe. Our options will be reduced to a stark in or out, which is no option at all. We have to stay in Europe, but we also have to fight for a Europe that is economically strong, politically accountable and, above all, structured for the benefit of its people, not its political elite. 
