politics
{  
    May 11 2008 03:56 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/gene-kerrigan/weve-reduced-politics-to-a-soap-opera-26447102.html }
On Thursday night, a TV3 News bulletin sought to comfort worried citizens. Although Bertie Ahern had left office, it reported, "life went on as normal today on the streets of Dublin". As evidence of this lack of panic, the station solemnly broadcast reassuring footage of Dubliners taking pleasure in the sunny weather. Dubliners, we were assured, enjoyed lunch that day, despite the departure from office of Mr Ahern. No, I'm not making this up. And, no, TV3 News wasn't taking the mickey out of the over-the-top coverage of the Ahern departure. The message was clear. Like New Yorkers in the wake of 9/11, grieving Dubliners kept a stiff upper lip. We've suffered the loss of Mr Ahern, but we'll bravely carry on. TV3 News was not the only media outlet to go stark, staring mad in recent days. RTE covered live the most trivial moments of the Ahern departure as though they were a sombre Vatican process leading to sainthood. Much of the print coverage would fit comfortably into a juvenile fan-mag. Never in the field of media endeavour have so many squeezed so much codswallop out of so little substance. There's a reason why the coverage of the transition from Ahern to Brian Cowen has been so consistently lightweight. Over the years, the politicians managed to extract much of the political content from politics. And the media finds that easier to deal with. Handled as a soap opera, politics can be made entertaining. It's as though this has nothing to do with our health, our kids' education, our housing and all the other crucial areas of our lives. The departure of Ahern provided dramatic material. It was theatrical, poignant, colourful. The arrival of Cowen was portrayed as a major story development -- much as though a new landlady was taking over at the Rover's Return or the Queen Vic. The opposition leaders played a significant part in this depoliticisation of politics. Their Dail eulogies of Ahern were totally empty of any attempt at political perspective. It was right to place on record their genuine regard for Ahern as a colleague and opponent. But, to completely strip away any consideration of the political and social impact of Ahern's long period in office was a scandal. It was a betrayal of those who paid the price of that regime, dying on the hospital waiting lists that the Ahern government undertook years ago to end -- and then changed its mind about. It was a betrayal of those who paid the price of the policy of deliberately withholding medical resources from those who need them to survive -- such as the cystic fibrosis patients. It was a betrayal of the autistic kids and their parents, against whom highly paid lawyers were employed in the campaign to deprive them of the education that offered a chance of some liberation. It was a betrayal of the masses of kids whose education opportunities were cramped by the longterm policy of underfunding primary and secondary schooling. At best, Enda Kenny and Eamon Gilmore engaged in self-indulgent twaddle. At worst, it was an attempt to ingratiate themselves with the fans of a popular public figure. After all, a second preference is a second preference. More than anything else, it gave the signal that -- what the hell, it's all just a game, anyway. And that was a signal that the media needs little encouragement to accept. (Kenny and Gilmore received widespread media praise for their determination to keep politics out of politics.) On the day after Ahern departed, the media speculated intensely. What did Brian Cowen's cabinet appointments tell us, the pundits wondered, about who was being positioned as his successor? This on Mr Cowen's first day in office. It was as though we'd already exhausted the dramatic possibilities of a Cowen regime, so let's get right into the next plot development. When Cowen gets his P45, is it bound to be Lenihan who gets the nod, or might Dermot Ahern or Michael Martin make a late surge? Where does Mary Coughlan fit into all this? Why does such nonsense so readily find a market? Because we have reduced politics to a horse race -- which of the runners and riders will win the big prize? The race itself has become the point of the political process, the consequences that follow are peripheral. Repeatedly, Bertie Ahern's three general election victories were held up as evidence of political genius. The sometimes monstrous consequences of his policies were relegated to the boring discourse beloved of policy nerds. In the absence of politics, a mixture of Stalinist personality cult and celebrity culture has given us inane fashion commentary ("Mary Coughlan -- From Frump to Fashionista!"). We've had assurances that Mr Cowen is a good mimic, and that he's only mad about the cupla focail. We've had incessant worried commentary about Mr Cowen's "lifestyle". Because of this concentration on personality, it's unsurprising that politicians can be in the Dail for 20 years and their political values are still a matter of speculation. There has been some attempt to analyse Cowen's politics, from his first speeches as Taoiseach. Some find hope that the callous social experiments of the Ahern years are over. Cowen says he sees "economic activity as a servant of society", rather than an end in itself. He promised to "lead the charge away from the promotion of exclusive self-interest towards a superior value of a wider community interest". This could mean something. Or, it could be the use of sweet words to encourage trade union leaders to buy a pay freeze. The measure of political principle is not in what people say, it's in what they do. Look at his cabinet appointments. Some are of little significance. Willie O'Dea, for instance, is a capable administrator. So, he rightly stays on as Minister for Defence. (I'm not sure what exactly a Minister for Defence does -- but we can take it that Willie's been doing a sterling job. No one has dared invade us while Willie's been in charge.) It's in the core positions that political principles matter. None is more core than Health, where Mary Harney was reappointed without question. Cowen retains the policies that have resulted in deferred treatment of serious illness, and premature death. This -- despite opposition jibes -- is not a matter of incompetence. It results from policy. Emphasis on deadly "efficiencies" -- the shortage of beds, the shortage of staff, the waiting lists, the wholesale build up of the private medical business at the expense of the public medical service -- is very deliberate. Cowen, whose own stint in Health was less than impressive, endorses Harney's privatisation policy, with the inevitable consequences. He speaks of community interest -- but he also speaks in Harneyesque tones of "value for money through the flexibility and accountability appropriate in a modern democracy". The irony is grotesque -- those who place "value for money" above all else have squandered billions in their attempts to solidify an inequitable two-tier health service. The immediate choice for Cowen is who gets to suffer, due to the irresponsible credit and housing policies that have created a deep recession. Usually, it's the weakest -- the sick, the handicapped and the elderly. Even some of the best media talents have unthinkingly adopted the terminology of death already on the lips of the Cowen government. "Tough decisions", "hard choices", "competitiveness" -- these are all code words for "How many people should we let die?" It happened with health cuts in the late 1980s and it's happening again. Back then, the well off didn't suffer, and many built the fortunes they enjoy today. Of course, it's all different now, with this nice new Mr Cowen and his wholly fresh cabinet. 
