politics
{ Eoghan Harris 
    November 25 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eoghan-harris/eoghan-harris-off-the-ropes-martin-makes-a-fresh-start-for-fianna-fail-28905805.html }
'I think they'll have to face down several major issues like, for example, political pensions, even former ministers like myself, and the pensions of bankers and of very highly paid pensions in State bodies and the public sector – that will have to be faced down. Barry Desmond, The Week in Politics. Barry Desmond was the best Labour minister in my lifetime. He never forgot that fairness is the first principle of socialism. By calling for a clawback on political pensions – including his own – he has belled a big political fat cat. For months, I have been saying the same. The Government cannot bring in a Budget that bears down on the majority Irish private sector without making the fat cats of the public sector pay up as well. The chief fat cat is the political class itself. But helped by RTE and many political pundits, the political class has hidden its huge pension hoard while berating the bankers. Following its Faustian pact with Labour, Fine Gael is now locked into that party's core policy: to protect the pay, perks and pensions of the Croke Park class. That means the majority class of private sector workers now has no political party. Last week, however, Micheal Martin and Fianna Fail made a fresh bid to be that party. Looking back on the week, I see three signs that the private sector may have finally found a protector. First, Fianna Fail made a modest start on clawing back political pensions. Second, Micheal Martin showed a grace under pressure on Vincent Brown's show that neither Enda Kenny nor Eamon Gilmore could equal. Third, Browne's brilliant interrogation of Mary Lou McDonald exposed the brazen hypocrisy of Sinn Fein's partitionist policy on abortion. Last week could turn out to be a tipping point in modern Irish politics. Like all major political achievements, it meant Micheal Martin getting blood on his shirt by tackling political pensions. 'Blood on the shirt' is a phrase I coined during the Mary Robinson campaign. It points up the difference between a PR adviser and a political adviser. PR people always want politicians to avoid a fight whereas political advisers actively seek the right fight. Enda Kenny has PR advisers. That is why he is always looking for approval. But this sometimes causes him to act out of character. As in his polemic against Papal interference in Irish affairs. Enda Kenny's cautious, even conservative, reaction to the abortion issue reflected the fact that he is is basically a Mayo Catholic. And it contradicts the anti-clerical implications of his anti-Rome speech. Go figure. Nevertheless, his anti-Rome speech will be remembered by historians as one of the high points of this Government. Just as one of its low points will be Pat Rabbitte's ridiculous refrain whenever RTE's hidden agendas are revealed: "What do you want me to do, take them out and shoot them at dawn?" Rabbitte's flippant failure to confront the Frontline distortion of a presidential election hides a deeper political agenda. RTE is now the last hope of preventing the private sector pulverising the Labour Party. That is why I now mainly watch TV3 and listen to Newstalk. RTE continually plays up the bankers' pensions while playing down political pensions. Incredibly, it sometimes gets support from the print media. That's because while most political pundits work in the private sector, many still subscribe to a soft socialism which sacralises the public sector. The rest are so reflexively anti-Fianna Fail they cannot see that the Enda and Eamon parties are now the chief exponents of the culture of entitlement. Accordingly, pundits told us that Fianna Fail's pension reforms would hit Bertie Ahern and Brian Cowen's pension. And rightly so – although the pundits failed to note that Ahern gave back some (€14,600) of his €83,000 ministerial pension. And they did not mention that Mary Robinson, Mary McAleese, Liam Cosgrave and Michael McDowell also gave back a good portion of their pensions. Not so John Bruton (€131,399) nor Dick Spring (€114,806,), although both have private incomes. Both Bruton and Spring did some service to the State. They would argue they are merely drawing down money to which they are entitled. But whether entitlement should be exercised while private sector workers – who pay for it all – suffer so severely is a moot moral point. Let me give an analogy. I remember being on the long golden beaches of the Dominican Republic with Gabriel Byrne while he was filming Christopher Columbus. Both of us wondered how the Canadians could sun themselves so blithely with horrible poverty hidden in the trees only 100 yards away. But clawback should not be confined to former cabinet ministers. Enda Kenny will get a lump sum of €139,000 and an annual pension of €100,000. Eamon Gilmore will also get a lump sum of €139,000 and a pension of €83,000. These massive pensions also need culling. Brendan Howlin's pension pot also begs a few questions. Like Kenny and Gilmore, he too will get a lump sum of €139,000 and pension of €92,298. So how can he credibly confront the Croke Park civil servant class – to which ministers' pay and pensions are basically benchmarked? Howlin is a politician of integrity. But surely the same rule should apply to him as to the Galway doctors who were not allowed to sit in judgement on their colleagues? How can cabinet ministers who are basically benchmarked to public sector pay and pension systems carry any conviction in sorting out the Croke Park class? RTE, which is also part of the public sector class, has the same credibility problem. How can it explain its failure to systematically follow up public sector scandals such as abuse of allowances and sick leave which have come to light over the past five years? Last week, RTE reverentially reported Howlin calling in the public sector unions for talks about cutting services. A truly national broadcaster would have asked Howlin a hard question: Why wasn't he calling in the unions to take a cut in pay or pensions so as to protect public services? Analysis Pages 28 & 29 But then why would RTE want to annoy its chief protector, Pat Rabbitte? Last week, Rabbitte brazenly described the BAI strictures on RTE as a "squabble". He barely stopped short of repeating his "shot at dawn" soundbite. Fine Gael was foolish to give Rabbitte the run of RTE, because his apparently flippant approach to the Frontline role in skewing the presidential election hides a deeper political reality. RTE is the last hope of preventing the liquidation of the Labour Party. A final word of advice to Micheal Martin. Now that Fianna Fail has grasped a few stinging leaves of the big pension nettle, the public sector lobby in the party will start to panic. Let us hope Martin gets some more blood on his shirt by facing that lobby down firmly. Irish democracy needs a democratic opposition. And the disenfranchised majority which works in the private sector desperately needs a party to defend it in the hard times ahead. For these two reasons we must hope that Micheal Martin will continue to listen to the people and not to the PR men. Sunday Independent 
