politics
{ Ray Kinsella 
    November 19 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/how-trump-ended-a-jaded-political-ideology-35228102.html }
The US presidential election delivered a tectonic shock to the US political system. Its impact across the global political economy has been equally dramatic. In Europe, no less than the US, all bets are off. The elite of the established order has been quick to denounce Donald Trump's victory as an expression of 'populism'. Well, they would, wouldn't they? They are wrong. The US presidential election delivered a tectonic shock to the US political system. Its impact across the global political economy has been equally dramatic. In Europe, no less than the US, all bets are off. The elite of the established order has been quick to denounce Donald Trump's victory as an expression of 'populism'. Well, they would, wouldn't they? They are wrong. It's early days - but supporters of Hillary Clinton and her neo-liberal ideology are now confronting the awful reality that the US (and therefore the world) economy has not tanked. On the contrary, markets are buoyant and expectations high. President-elect Trump has talked to Russian President Vladimir Putin and the prospects for the defeat of Isil, peace in Syria and the demilitarisation of Europe are improved. Suddenly, the rhetoric of war and of "Russian aggression" looks jaded and to be serving only the interests of War Inc. Mr Trump is succeeding in changing the trajectory of history. Even the pop glitterati are not emigrating. President Barack Obama, with the benefit of hindsight, has said Mrs Clinton's defeat was a consequence of "fear and anger". With all the resources at its command, why did her campaign not pick up on just why so many were fearful and what was the cause of their anger? It was rooted in a mindset far from the people displaced by a kind of globalisation that serves the interests of the wealthy and discards the displaced. It lost touch with reason and common sense - and that is always fatal. It created its own 'bubble' and scorned those - from Bernie Sanders to 'backward Catholics' - with values that marked them as 'outsiders'. The Podesta leaks, which the mainstream media chose to largely ignore, demonstrated the dark mindset that lay beneath the Clinton campaign. People saw this - though many did not feel it safe to say so. Mr Trump is, in the proper sense of the word, vulgar and his rhetoric deeply offensive. But, in the words of David Sheppard of the 'Financial Times', " ..away from the podium bluster, which should be taken with a fistful of salt...", it's a very different matter. Mr Trump does not purport to be cerebral but he is much smarter than the elite were prepared to give him credit for. The analytics that drove his campaign proved infinitely more rigorous than Mrs Clinton's. Wharton School of Finance, where he did his undergraduate degree, is in the global top 10. In a lifetime of wheeling and dealing, Mr Trump has absorbed the realities of finance and marketing and life experience that is a closed book to the political time-servicers who dominate the EU. The "lack of political experience", when you look objectively at the fruits of such experience in the US and in Europe, is a powerful advantage. In defeating Mrs Clinton's clique, President-elect Trump vanquished a whining crypto-feminism far removed from what equality is about. In this instance, Mrs Clinton's palpable sense of entitlement to the presidency purely because she was a woman was offensive to many voters, including women. Proponents of Mrs Clinton remain in denial. They are shocked and resentful that her candidacy - with the full weight of Mr Obama, as well as former president Bill Clinton and Wall Street, supported by the 'politically correct' elite and many celebrities - was demolished by what they see as a rogue force. Not so - with so much going for her, it can only be seen as a rejection of the substance of her campaign. Her "coalition of the elites" is, itself, a product of a rogue secular ideology rooted in gender theory - one that has systematically 'colonised' the political establishment, mainstream media and academia, where free speech and open debate is being suffocated. Harvard Professor Mary Ann Glendon recently pointed out: "It's hard to imagine a decent politics that doesn't depend on the notion of the dignity of the human person." She also demonstrated how the orthodoxy spearheaded by Mrs Clinton has systematically attempted to overthrow this central belief in the dignity of the person - which is at the heart of Mr Trump's political philosophy. It's a seismic divide. Talk of transgender bathrooms, and of 'glass ceilings' impeding the triumphant progress of a powerful and wealthy lifetime politician, cut no ice with the displaced in the rust belt. Much of the response to Mr Trump's victory is deeply felt. But, more than a little, it borders on the hysterical and reflects the kind of psychological conditioning that is now an integral part of politics and political campaigning: the demonisation of opponents, and the instilling of an existential "end of civilisation as we know it" mindset, so evident in both the US election and the Brexit campaign in the UK. It is a deeply disturbing political phenomenon. Mr Trump has a 'world view' that begins by putting the interests of the US first. It is deeply sceptical about Nato - a case that has been argued in these pages some months back. Mr Trump shares the widespread opposition to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) in Ireland and across the EU. TTIP is now dead in the water. Mr Trump knows that it would further decimate manufacturing jobs. For many of the rest of us, TTIP is unacceptable precisely because it amounts to ceding of national interests and multinationals' responsibilities of governance. Neither Mr Obama nor Mrs Clinton - nor the EU leadership - showed any sensitivity to such concerns. In managing the US economy, Mr Trump's administration will put US interests first. That is what he was elected to do. He will reduce the US corporate tax rate and strongly push multinationals to repatriate capital to the US to help fund his economic policies. This will erode Ireland's competitive advantages for mobile foreign direct investment (FDI). The direct and indirect negative impact on the west of Ireland, to take just one example, is potentially very significant. That same impact also accentuates the economic risks to Ireland arising from an EU that, apart from at the centre, is running on empty; one resistant to reform, fuelled only by rhetoric and whose 'Big Idea' is a European army. Mr Trump is forcing politicians and vested interests in the EU to rethink the mythologies of their tenuous claim to legitimacy. Mr Obama's recent visit to Athens is a powerful metaphor for the full extent of the woeful state of what the EU has become. His call for "debt relief" for a country where the imposition of IMF-supported austerity has led to pensioners being tear-gassed in the streets is far too late. Against all the odds and in the teeth of the establishment, Mr Trump has overturned a jaded political and economic ideology, putting the dignity of the person back at the heart of politics. In 2011, and again in 2013, I argued this precise point for a managed exit from what the EU has become. The context has changed but the argument for IrExit is stronger than ever. But first we need a brave and radical values-driven politics, free from the old - and more recent - shibboleths. Economist Ray Kinsella is Professor of Banking and Financial Services, and Healthcare at UCD Irish Independent 
