politics
{ Fergus Black and  Marese McDonagh 
    March 03 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/burke-denies-cashing-in-on-career-26092137.html }
RAY Burke insisted yesterday that he had not benefited financially from his political life spanning 20 years. He told the Flood Tribunal that his political and personal expenditure was seamless and intermingled. "At the end of my political career, from political subscriptions I received I didn't benefit financially." Mr Burke was commenting after the tribunal had undertaken a detailed analysis of all his accounts and questioned whether he had used his political funds to supplement general expenditure of a personal nature. A tribunal analysis revealed that while Mr Burke said he had spent more than £83,000 directly for political purposes, more than £174,000 in political contributions was transferred to his Ulster Bank current account and it appeared most of it was spent on items of a personal nature. That account was described by Mr Burke as his "working" day-to-day account into which other funds, including his Dail and ministerial salaries, were lodged. All transactions concerning his political and personal life were "intermingled". The tribunal also found that another £8,156 in political donation funds was transferred to his wife's current account. The tribunal was told that substantial withdrawals had been made from Mr Burke's deposit accounts - which had been funded by political donations - to offset overdrafts on his current account. In one year, between 1988 and 1989, a £34,537 overdraft was run up. Several withdrawals from the current account included £13,500 to build a tennis court at Mr Burke's home in 1989, £6,750 to upgrade the family car, £5,000 which possibly went towards "buying" a table at the Fianna Fail president's dinner in November 1989 and more than £20,000 for kitchen renovations. Mr Justice Flood said the account had been in overdraft at varying periods for various amounts which suggested Mr Burke's income from whatever sources was inadequate. On Mr Justice Flood's calculations, between December 1989 and August 1991 Mr Burke supplemented his gross income by £63,000. That money came out of his so-called reserve or deposit accounts which had been funded by people who gave him political contributions. "It appears you used the political funds to subvent your general expenditure," said the chairman. "I accept there would be ongoing political elements in that expenditure but there is clearly a very substantial subvention of your personal account." But Mr Burke insisted that his political and personal expenditure were intermingled. Everything went into the same "kitty". Answering queries about the £8,000 transfer to his wife's account, Mr Burke said he wanted to put on record the work done by his wife Ann and family over the years. She entertained supporters who came to their home on a daily basis. "The key factor, surely, is that when you go through all of my political life, after 20 years I have not benefited to any extent out of my political life," he said. Over that time he had spent £15,000 a year - £300 a week - to keep his political career running. He did not benefit financially from his political subscriptions and £118,000 remained unspent. 
