politics
{ Will Hanafin 
    October 17 2010 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/lucinda-creighton-rebel-with-a-cause-26690568.html }
It sounds as if there should be several candidates for the title, but Lucinda Creighton is the official Baby of the Dail, having won a seat for Fine Gael at just 27. She may be the youngest TD, but Lucinda is a baby who causes Enda Kenny many sleepless nights with her discordant noises -- and, unluckily for him, she's showing no signs of quietening down. "I can't open my mouth without getting into trouble!" she jokes. The Dublin South East deputy's outspokenness is still intact, despite Enda's heave victory and constant assurances that Fine Gael is one big happy family again. She still bristles at the suggestion that there was an organised putsch against Enda. "And, had there been a plot in place, it probably would have succeeded!" Statements such as that really do soothe a leader's nerves. Not! The question is whether Lucinda's toy-throwing is down to her lack of advancement within Fine Gael, or a genuine exasperation with politics. I spent a few days with her to find out. Lucinda still smarts at accusations -- from her own side, mainly -- that she was one of the prime movers in the alleged plot. "I know for a fact that fingers were pointed deliberately at people like Brian Hayes, and me, John Deasy and Damien English, that we were hatching a plot since February. That was a lie," she says. "There was no plan -- that was the problem. If you look at the people who were on the challenging side -- a lot of young people, a lot of people who haven't been on a heave before or had never . . . not quite as adept at that sort of politics," she adds. Kenneth Williams's line from Carry on Cleo: "Infamy! Infamy! They've all got it in for me!" could have been written for Lucinda right now. "There were a lot of spins subsequently in the papers -- which were deliberately put in the papers -- that this was in gestation for months, and that it began with a plot once George Lee left in February. That simply wasn't true." She's adamant that the origin of the heave against Enda was a lot more prosaic. She had just arrived home from an evening's canvassing and settled down to watch Prime Time -- this was in the aftermath of the disastrous MRBI poll that showed Enda Kenny's personal poll rating plummet by seven points to 24 per cent, and relegated Fine Gael to second place behind Labour. "I was at home and Richard Bruton was on. The MRBI poll caused consternation in the parliamentary party. Everyone was phoning everyone that day, and then Richard went on. I got the poll results via text while canvassing, and then basically the phone was ringing incessantly. The whole parliamentary party was immediately on high alert," she says. She expected Richard Bruton to back Enda Kenny, as he always had done. "Then Richard was on, he was asked the inevitable question. 'What about this poll? What about your leader's ratings?' Richard, who is the most loyal, the most head-down dedicated and never, ever would question -- failed to answer the question. I looked at that, and I said: 'This is clearly a heave.' Then the phone started ringing even more, and everyone was wondering what the hell is going to happen. Richard had failed to endorse the leader, so there was no plot!" The anti-Enda faction lost the day, but she thinks it wasn't by that much. Only two officials in the party knew the actual result after the secret leadership ballot. She has her own suspicions about the outcome. "It was definitely very close . . . it's irrelevant now." For Lucinda, it was a depressing and personally bruising time. "I found the whole thing awful. These things, they cause divisions whether you like it or not. It takes time to heal. Things are said that can't be taken back. I was called a liar by one of my colleagues, to a team of journalists, on the plinth. About promises that were made during the course of the four days; I happened to comment in a radio interview about certain carrots that were offered," she said, referring to a promise of a front-bench promotion. The Claremorris, Co Mayo native has strong views about what Irish voters are looking for in their political leaders after the recession. "I don't believe that there's a messiah. If you think there's a messiah, you are going to end up disappointed. Bertie was somebody who people thought . . . somebody you could go for a pint with. A likeable character, called by his first name," she says. "Now, they're not looking for that." Her political ideal sounds suspiciously unlike Enda -- "The needs and expectations of the electorate have changed. They are looking for competence. They're looking for straight talking -- not political talk, not political speak, the old blather, the cliches, the not-very-straight answers." So, what will the next taoiseach have to have in spades? "Honesty. Somebody you look at and you trust," she says. After a substantial section of his own party said they didn't want him anymore, what can Enda Kenny do to convince a very sceptical Irish electorate? "I think he should be himself. I think he should be straight, direct, do a lot of media. I don't think he should be going around the country Bertie Ahern style, because that era's over. That was the strategy up to the last general election." But can Enda do it and, more importantly, does Lucinda believe he can do it? "Partly it's about self-belief. Get out there and do it. I think he can do it, he has to get out there and really prove it," she says. During our time together, she often reassures me that things between herself and Enda are cordial and that the media perception of them as always at each other's throats is far from true. "I suppose we're different people; we have a pretty amicable relationship," she says. But Lucinda doesn't have his back when it comes to Enda's pet projects, such as the abolition of the Seanad. "I would personally more be in favour of reform first. But the problem is that it hasn't been reformed. Thirty-two amendments required. Can you amalgamate all the propositions into one proposition? Probably not. I haven't been party to any decision-making in relation to the Seanad, it was a leader's initiative, and definitely there are issues. I would like to see the Seanad reformed. Personally, I have a bit of an attachment to the idea of a bicameral system. There is a certain type of debate that is not achievable in the other one because of the confrontational nature of the Dail," she says. Lucinda also believes that the reshuffle after the failed coup has backfired. "I definitely agree the best people should be in the job and I think some of the best people were left off." I am keen to ask Lucinda if she understands why Enda Kenny might be just a smidgen exasperated by her habit of going off-message at will. "Politics in Ireland is so centred on this nebulous concept of loyalty. Loyalty to what? Blind loyalty! If you are loyal, you are rewarded. Are we ever going to move away from consensus until we can change the political system?" she retorts. With such turbo-charged disillusionment with her own party, does she think there's room for a new political party? "I think that there could be, yeah. Look at the electorate; look at their frustrations. Look at their ambitions. There are huge frustrations with politics and what's perceived to be establishment politics. I would put a lot of that down to Fianna Fail trying to exonerate themselves to a certain extent, saying, 'We're all the same.' We're not all the same. But there's definitely a frustration with political parties as we know it. We have to move with the times, we have to recognise that gap in the market at the moment. "I think it's accurate to say that we, along with the other parties, haven't responded, we haven't changed how we do our business, even the language that we use. The same old language about 'fighting elections' and 'being ready' for elections. Who cares? From what I hear and see, people are looking for more of a vision for the country, more interested in discussing the solutions to the banking crisis, the economic crisis, the jobs crisis," she blasts. As she's advocating a good old shake-up of the system, would she ever see Fine Gael working with their old enemy, Fianna Fail? "I don't think we could work with Fianna Fail in the context of the outgoing Government and what has gone on the last few years, but in the future, yeah, I would, being honest. There are a lot of people in Fianna Fail who would share a lot of the values of Fine Gael. There are differences between the parties, in terms of ideologies and that, but they are broad churches." Who does she rate across the floor? "I give a lot of credit to Brian Lenihan for what he has done, and particularly in the context of his illness. But somebody like Sean Ardagh, I rate him quite a lot. He is somebody that I have always had a lot of respect for. I think he's competent. I have always quite liked Pat Carey. I think he's bright and articulate." It's not just Fine Gael that annoys her; the Dail itself really seems to grind her gears after only three years as a deputy. "The order of business is probably the most ridiculous, farcical part of the day, because it goes on for far too long. It goes on for about an hour and a half. You're only supposed to raise things that are connected to promised legislation, so people find all sorts of reasons or ways to connect something that they want to raise that's in the national papers that day, or in their local paper. It's not efficiently done." She's equally contemptuous of other Dail procedures. "Question time is quite shambolic. Ministers come in reading scripts -- they don't answer questions. There's just no accountability. Leaders' questions is probably the best part of the day, because it's impromptu. The leaders of the parties have an opportunity to quiz the Taoiseach. "The adjournment debate is the main opportunity for backbenchers to raise issues -- it can be 11 o'clock at night, there's no interest, generally they focus on really, really local issues. The Dail should be less focused on local issues and more on national issues." She eyes developments in the UK enviously. "They've introduced some innovative things in Westminster. If you get five MPs to sponsor your private members' bill you can have the thrust of the bill debated for a short period of time and, if there's sufficient interest from across the house, both sides, then you can develop it into a bill." With such a downcast view of both the Dail and her own party, is she really up for running next time round? "It would depend on how motivated I feel. What I feel the country needs, what I feel my constituents need. What I can contribute, what I can offer. I don't think it's an automatic thing that a TD has to stand, or should stand." It's not that she doesn't give it her all. Her life as a TD certainly seems jam-packed. The week I hang around with her, she has to attend several coffee mornings for the hospice, canvasses twice in a week and has back-to-back meetings in the Dail with everyone from artists to architects, as well as attending to constituency office work. "You have to weigh up what you can offer. Whether you want to continue with the level of round-the-clock work. My days are packed. I'm up early, and most nights you're home at 11 o'clock and I would work every Saturday as well. It's a huge commitment." Some of the meetings I attend with her are fascinating. There is the flamboyant and loquacious banking consultant, Peter Mathews, who comes in to tell her about his plan to nationalise the banks, accompanied by a mysterious American friend who will only call himself Walter Matthau. A delegation of arts workers follows, warning her about cutting the arts budget -- and theatrically reminds her that a politician's job is to guard the "physical, fiscal and cultural life of the nation". A partner in an architecture firm, who is a constituent of hers, comes in to lobby against a bill to expand membership of the architecture profession -- and points out that work is down more than 80 per cent. She seems eager to engage with everyone affected by this most equal-opportunity recession, which has has ravaged every sector from architects to set designers. She reiterates that establishment politicians just aren't at the races. "The profile of Irish politicians is pretty common to all of the parties: generally older, male, rural. It doesn't reflect the new, more urbanised society that we live in." What about her alternative job prospects? Lucinda is a Trinity law graduate who was called to the Bar back in 2005 and devilled for one year before being elected a TD. What would she do if she wasn't a TD? "There's lots of things. I'm just back from Uganda and had an extremely interesting time there. I'm doing a masters in international relations. I'm interested in the whole thing of democracy building in post-conflict regions. I did enjoy being at the Bar, and I like to write as well. I don't see politics as a long-term career option." I ask her whether, as a TD at 30, she participates in the legendary Leinster House drink culture. "What everybody says is that 20 years ago the Dail bar culture was huge. People went drinking all the time." She reckons the closure of a certain adjacent nightspot has curtailed many of our politicians' excesses. "Now groups of people go up to Buswells after the Dail bar. It used to be Renards -- but [the old] Renards is closed. That's probably helped to reduce the drinking culture! Seriously." Her view is that the drinking culture is mainly centred around rural TDs, and for them it's a vital way to ascend the greasy political ladder. "Dublin TDs don't really engage in that much anyway because you're going back to your constituency in the evening. The rural TDs are up in Dublin probably two nights a week. What are they going to do? Go back to their hotel room? They socialise; it becomes part of it. "If you look at the alliances that are built up that way, Brian Cowen's group goes back to Albert Reynolds. That's a whole social scene among TDs where they become really good friends and then they become supporters of each other, and then they vote for each other. That's why it's hard for a Dublin person to become leader in any party. Bertie managed to crack it. Bertie must have a cast a spell on them!" Despite her views about the urban/rural culture clash, she has managed to bridge that herself with her boyfriend, Mallow-based Senator Paul Bradford, who is 16 years her senior. Was the age gap a difficulty for her? "I don't think it's that big of an age gap. In politics, obviously you mix with people of all ages. I wasn't looking for anybody -- it just happened! We have a lot in common: a similar sense of humour, both into politics, into horses." Lucinda does joke that she's into Florence and the Machine, while he's into Newstalk and the History Channel. They recently got engaged while on a trip to New York. Cutting back on the public sector would be one of her first steps if she was in government. "Unfortunately we're in a situation where we've an over-inflated public service. We can all decry the prospect of people losing jobs in the short term, but if we're to have a long-term strategy we're going to have that, and it's going to be painful. "The reality is that you have to take very difficult decisions. You have to cut the size of the public sector -- which means people losing jobs in the short term, doing it with the objective in sight that you're going to focus on creating an environment that's pro-business and pro-enterprise." Any Government minister will argue that we'll never have a stimulus programme here because we're borrowing up to €19bn this year just to pay the bills. Is there really anything that the opposition can do differently? "Obviously we're borrowing to pay teachers, pay nurses at this stage, but a stimulus package can happen through capital spending as well. My expectation is that they are going to cut capital spending rather than current spending, and that's fine in terms of trying to improve their re-electability -- but by cutting capital expenditure you're cutting investments in school-building projects, all of those infrastructure projects. That's not a stimulus, it's a contra stimulus." As we finish up, I ask her about Michael McDowell, who has recently rediscovered his inner Blueshirt with that Michael Collins documentary about the greatest-ever Irishman. Kites have been flown that Fine Gael may run him in Lucinda's constituency. "Michael McDowell's very popular in Dublin South East. He left Fine Gael in 1985 and hasn't looked back. I think it would be very hard to come back after the way he exited in 2007. "He's just perceived to be a solo figure and definitely there'd be big concern within the Fine Gael parliamentary party about that," she adds. In fairness, I think they're used to solo figures in the Fine Gael parliamentary party at this stage . . . Lucinda! At the time we went to press, Enda's fate was still uncertain, and it was all to play for among those in the Fine Gael party. Sunday Independent 
