politics
{  
    November 21 2010 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sense-of-entitlement-is-a-tyranny-that-has-led-to-death-of-fianna-fail-26701487.html }
Three months ago, on August 25, when an international ratings agency downgraded the credit worthiness of Ireland, it became clearer than ever that the State would be unable to honour its debts. What debts they are: €90bn and rising, or, if you prefer, €90,000,000,000: €50bn to recapitalise the banks -- is it now €70bn? -- and €40bn to meet the liabilities of Nama, the bad bank. With an interest rate of, say, five per cent, that's comfortably €4bn-a-year due, before we even get out of bed; such crippling debt -- a debt crisis -- to be doubled soon, when this €100bn bailout is inevitably drawn upon; such debt will cripple the country for generations to come. The day after the downgrade the Taoiseach was photographed on a golf course in Connemara alongside Senator Donie Cassidy, the archetypal Fianna Fail politician in a pullover. In those photographs, Cowen seemed even more sullen than is normal for him, scowling somewhat at the camera. Tut tut, it was said, by his spin doctors with a weary shake of the head. Could we not leave the man alone? The Taoiseach was entitled to his holiday, it was said, a three-month summer closedown of the apparatus of the State, stretching easily into autumn. That weekend, on August 29, the Sunday Independent headline read: "They're all away as we face Greek-style crisis," and underneath that: "Immediate action needed on debt, but Dail won't cut short holidays." For years there has been an uneasy stand-off between the people and the body politic in relation to excessive time off, at summer, Christmas, Easter and in between, but the establishment still refuses to relent, such is its deadman's grip on its sense of entitlement. Last summer, however, events really were taking place behind the scenes which render almost criminally negligent their 'what we have we hold' mentality, which is so endemic throughout the body politic, at local, national and international level. Negligent, certainly, but as it now appears, wilfully ignorant, too, of the seriousness of the situation; such ignorance as was manifest in the comments of the Transport Minister last week, and the Justice Minister, too, who described as "fiction" reports that the IMF/ECB/EU were on the way days before they were to arrive. Dempsey and Ahern, and most of the Cabinet, including the Taoiseach, have been in continuous power and privilege for almost 14 years, presiding over the boom -- five years of it real -- and over the other 10, too, of bubble and of most ruinous bust. If somebody must be held accountable -- and what is politics if it is not accountable -- it is the likes of Cowen, Ahern, Dempsey, Micheal Martin and Mary Harney, in particular, who should be so held, such names and faces which now only stoke latent anger whenever they deign to offer their usually ill-judged opinion on events. While the Taoiseach was on holiday -- he and the body politic at summer schools talking crap -- those of us in the real world were at our desks, conscious as always that we were lucky to have desks to go to. That, certainly, is where the corporate customers of the banks in Ireland found themselves following the downgrade by Standard & Poor's, when, predictably enough, they began to pull out their funds with a great sense of urgency. Which is why the IMF has come in here more quickly than even the most pessimistic among us had expected. In a matter of weeks after the downgrade, Bank of Ireland lost €10bn, or 12 per cent of its deposit base; Irish Life and Permanent had an 11 per cent fall in August and September; and AIB on Friday announced a €13bn outflow. This flight of funds forced our delinquent banks to turn to the ECB for emergency funding, from whom they drew €130bn just to keep ticking over in their zombie state. Then, in September and October, while the body politic was on the piss, Ireland was to overtake Spain to become the most dependent in the eurozone on ECB funds. The financial markets were taking note . . . The Central Bank in Ireland then had to provide a further €20bn in exceptional liquidity, a move which suggested that the banks here had reached the ceiling of assets they could use to draw down ECB funds. Irish bond yields began to go up, inevitably, soaring at one stage to nine per cent. It was clear that the game was up. It would not be unfair to point out that while much of this was going on, the Taoiseach was singing The Lakes of Pontchartrain at a Fianna Fail 'think-in' in Galway, another crisis arising when he was forced to tell the media worldwide that he had been neither drunk nor hungover on air. Nor would it be unfair to tell you that in the Dail bar on Wednesday night, with the IMF just five minutes walk away, they were still at it, still drinking as if there was no tomorrow, which there may not be, or not as we know it anyway. In the bar on Wednesday night, tickets for the Taoiseach's 'Cairde Fail dinner' were being sold at €950 a table, where Fianna Fail will celebrate again -- precisely what, I do not know, each other maybe, because that is all they have left. In the same bar, the talk, across the political divide, was more about the outcome of a by-election in Donegal than it was about this man called Ajai Chopra who must now do what the Government has failed to do. Within the body politic, then, nothing of a fundamental nature has changed, not really, despite all of the fine words, the indignation, this concept of national sovereignty, of the GPO and of 1916; nothing really has changed, because there is still, at its heart, that sense of opportunity and entitlement which over- rides everything. It is a curse, the politics of this country, how it is practised, the system under which it operates. It is tribal, so tribal at its root and at its core, that I struggle sometimes to understand it. They say the politics of the Civil War is over, but that is just a wish of the few. Civil War politics has never been more alive: it is resurgent, in fact, laced with a renewed energy, like an adrenalin-filled syringe injected straight into the heart, the death of Fianna Fail now apparent, nearly all but certain. It has been never more alien either, to the circumstances in which we now find ourselves. But this does not mean that it will go away, of course, because it will not until the people decide that it must, that they have had enough. It was this kind of politics, the pursuit of votes at all cost, which caused Bertie Ahern and Charlie McCreevy and Brian Cowen to buy the people with their own money, which led us down this ruinous path; and it was this kind of politics which pre-ordained that Brian Cowen and Brian Lenihan could not lead us out of it again. In their two-and-a-half years in power they have been unsure of themselves, uncertain of what to do, only confident in bluff and bluster and spin; what Pat Rabbitte, with fiery eloquence, said to Government Minister Pat Carey on Prime Time on Thursday night, was only "auld palaver". It is easy to forget now, but we should try to remember their critical first year in power together, as Taoiseach and Finance Minister. The recession had arrived, a combination of credit crunch and bubble burst. They tinkered at the edges, assuring us all of the time that the fundamentals were fine. They tweaked a bit here, a little there, and then rounded on what Cowen liked to call the "commentariat", that is the people who disagreed with him. I remember him spitting the word in Tullamore upon his election. He knew best. He would do it his way. So he did, and now we see where we are at. When, finally, they were forced into a decision, they chose, on a fateful night in September 2008, to issue a blanket guarantee to all of the banks, to their depositors, to their bondholders, both senior and subordinated. That decision was taken on the back of copious advice, mixed as it was, but without proper consultation with Europe, such was the apparent urgency. Europe was agog, and not a little annoyed. Two years later, Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, has given an opinion: the bondholders should bear their load, but this is too little, too late for us. The decision, in September 2008, served to tie the State to the banks, to bind the two in hoops of steel. If the banks went down the country would go with it. The New York Times asked: can one bank bring down a country? They were talking about Anglo. The country has fallen. The question now is: can one bank bring down a continent? The answer is unknown. For the first year of their tenure, Cowen and Lenihan placed the blame, more than anywhere else, on decisions taken elsewhere: Lehman Brothers, for example. But authoritative reports have debunked the carefully woven myth. Our crisis was homegrown, on the back of political expediency, the management of the crisis merely another hump heaped upon the same back. In all of his decisions, in all of the choices made, Cowen in particular has kept a close eye on politics; that is, not necessarily on what was good for the country, but what was, along the way, least worse for Fianna Fail. The Government likes to claim there have been four austere Budgets in its lifetime, when, in truth, there has only been one, and even that -- the last -- was almost fudged when the Taoiseach sought to cave in to his most basic instinct, which is to protect Fianna Fail by protecting a public sector so big, so bloated, so fattened on the suckling tit of benchmarking, itself bankrolled by the excess of the property bubble; his instinct to step slowly, carefully, embracing the social partners who were, by the by, exposed for having routinely partaken in the Fas-like sense of entitlement so engendered by the Celtic Tiger. A report was commissioned from Colm McCarthy's group, but left to gather dust; quangos, stuffed to the gills with the cronies of Fianna Fail, 14 years in power, remain largely untouched; the semi-States, gilded and carpeted, many of them pointless, standing as monuments to the excesses of the age, their CEO's earning a multiple of the salary of the president of the United States; the banks, unreconstructed, the bastards therein who did this to us, in the main, still there, still drawing down their bonuses, still quaffing on a bogus prestige; property developers, unrepentant, as vacuously empty as the white elephants they have left behind, who wrested the State from the body politic to abuse as they wish, their own plaything with which to enrich themselves; and the political system itself, of course, seemingly powerless in this dance to the death with the elite, which has brought the country to ruin after just 80 years in existence, just that, unreformed and increasingly unaccountable, hiding behind the shambles that is Harney's HSE, for but one example, and now turning in on itself, its only refuge, unable to understand the anger of the people which is welling up that it might burst any day now into a pyre of burning flames. For Christ's sake, would they not just go, and go now, this very day, that we may salvage something from the ashes with which to start again. Sunday Independent 
