politics
{  
    December 26 2010 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/political-ads-need-to-join-21st-century-26609082.html }
During the 2007 General Election Fianna Fail pulled off a coup in getting Tony Blair and Bill Clinton to feature in its television political broadcast. Neither Blair nor Clinton actually uttered the words 'vote Fianna Fail'. Rather, the two men spoke glowingly about Bertie Ahern and, in particular, his role in the peace process in Northern Ireland. The minor controversy of two international leaders featuring in an Irish election broadcast is about as exciting as these so-called Party Political Broadcasts (PPBs) get. While most people like the idea of these broadcasts, they don't like watching them. A survey of public opinion on PPBs and the contentious issue of paid political advertising was included in a research report I published last year. When asked about the 2007 broadcasts, almost six in 10 adults could recall them. The same number agreed that the broadcasts were important regardless of whether or not they personally watched them. Some 20 per cent of the public said the broadcasts were 'informative' but 25 per cent thought they were 'boring'. The latter view is unlikely to change in the forthcoming General Election. The draft rules for television and radio election coverage were published recently. Unfortunately, the rules being proposed are devoid of innovation and fail to recognise the arrival of the internet and, in that sense, are literally from the last century. The Broadcasting Authority of Ireland (BAI) admits the code "includes no new requirements but sets out to codify existing best practice established by the BAI and its predecessors". Our political advertising rules are highly restrictive and from the Nanny State era. Candidates and parties are prevented from using television and radio to publicise their policies and to promote their agendas. A majority of the public (60 per cent) believe PPBs can influence how people decide to vote. Given these findings it is bizarre that all of the country's television and radio stations are not obliged to carry the broadcasts. The current rules allow individual stations to opt out. In my research report, I recommended that the obligation on broadcasters to carry PPBs should be reviewed. A year later, nothing has changed. A strong case can be made for these broadcasts on sports and music channels, as their audiences are the very ones most alienated from the political process. The BAI is planning a more substantial review process on how broadcasters cover politics -- and elections -- next year but it will come too late for the election. Reforming the PPB system is the minimum change we should be considering. "To do otherwise would be to be locked in a policy and technological time warp," I wrote a year ago. The 2011 contest will be Ireland's first internet election. Traditional concerns about television and radio political advertising are equally applicable to the internet but there is no debate about restricting political content on the web. This form of electronic broadcasting is not the concern of the BAI -- a fact which makes a mockery of the Broadcasting Act of 2009. I believe parties should be given greater freedom to publicise their policies and agendas on radio and television, especially during elections. What harm would come from a more relaxed attitude to a regulated system of paid political advertising? A more relaxed but regulated system of paid political advertising does not mean an American-style regime. There are rules in other countries which we could adopt. For example, in Greece individual candidates cannot purchase advertising slots but registered political parties can use television to promote their causes. A maximum spending limit -- 20 per cent of the total campaign budget in recent elections -- is placed on political advertising. The electoral law in South Korea provides each party with 30 television spots and 30 radio slots each a maximum of one minute long. A body of international academic research shows that the content of most political advertising is dominated by issues and, with the exception of the US, this advertising tends to be overwhelmingly positive. Exposure to political advertising also encourages voters to seek out more information on candidates -- something to be encouraged here given the quality of recent government policy decisions. Kevin Rafter's report 'Political Advertising: The Regulatory Position & the Public View' was published in November 2009 Sunday Independent 
