politics
{ Shane Ross 
    November 06 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/politics-must-be-removed-from-rotten-system-of-appointing-judges-35191545.html }
Their lordships are under siege. No one retaliates more politically than Ireland's "non-political" judges. Ten days ago, Fianna Fail TD and barrister Jim O'Callaghan introduced a Bill changing the way we elect our judges. All speakers, including myself, welcomed the initiative. Jim the barrister had shown bottle. He was trying to change the way we appoint our judges. He even admitted (what we all already knew) that many judges had been appointed because of their political affiliations.  Jim's Bill was strongly supported by fellow barristers Willie Penrose (Labour) and by Fianna Fail's James Browne. The Law Library was cheering for the new Bill. They wanted to remove the appointment of judges from the political arena. Bravo.  Three years ago, Jim's Fianna Fail, Willie's Labour and Fine Gael had voted down a Bill I had proposed, radically changing the way we appoint our judges. No party was prepared to give it as much as a second reading. Suddenly TDs, who also happen to be members of the Law Library, are onside with O'Callaghan's seemingly reformist Bill. Perhaps new politics is working? Ho hum.  Barrister Jim was not around Leinster House in 1995 when the current system of appointing judges was introduced. It is a lethal mix of elitism, combining political patronage with judicial approval. As a result, judges are appointed by the government of the day, after participating in a contorted camouflage, a perverse procedure, a pretence ending on the desk of the Minister for Justice.  Back in 1995, Albert Reynolds's government fell after a political scrap over the appointment of Harry Whelehan as president of the High Court. Harry was a Fianna Fail supporter, Albert's man. Labour Tanaiste Dick Spring was furious. The government fell.  The new 1995 government of Fine Gael and Labour introduced a Judicial Appointments Bill that would have made Fianna Fail, the world champions of cronyism, blush. In future, judges were to be chosen by the government from a list sent to them by a newly-constituted Judicial Appointments Advisory Board (JAAB). The deeply flawed JAAB has survived for over 20 years. Political appointees have stroked the system.  JAAB consists of 11 members. It is chaired by the Chief Justice. Other members include (ex-officio) the Presidents of the Appeal, High, Circuit and District Courts and the Attorney General.  So far all six have a single characteristic in common: they are political nominees, propelled into their positions by governments intent on perpetuating patronage.  Other members of the JAAB are the nominees of the Law Society and of the Bar Council. The legal profession makes up eight of 11 members.   The last three, lay members, are appointed by the Minister for Justice. In the past, ministers have often brazenly appointed party supporters to these three posts.  The JAAB, the body sending up the list of names to the minister, is a compact cocktail of political and legal insiders.  The process is not corrupt. Just rotten.  Its approach to its job is breathtakingly nonchalant. The JAAB holds the power to ask candidates for the bench to attend interviews. How many times, you may ask, in the selection of hundreds of candidates over the last two decades has it held interviews for the posts that control justice in this country? The answer is none. The JAAB has never bothered to interview a single judicial hopeful. Sure, why should they? All barristers or solicitors applying for the judiciary will know several members of the JAAB. If they do not, they would be ill-advised to apply.  Judges moving upwards from one court to another do not even have to submit themselves to the cursory JAAB process. They are simply promoted by their political masters. The indignity of sitting judges submitting themselves to a promotion process is unthinkable.  Evidence of political favouritism in the selection process is compelling. High-profile political personalities, defeated TDs, running mates of taoisigh, unsuccessful solicitors with known party affiliations, lower-level party workers and mere friends of the minister have been parachuted into the ranks of the judges in the last 20 years without needing to do more than write a letter enclosing their CVs. The JAAB is a stitch-up. Fianna Fail, Fine Gael and Labour have shared the judicial spoils of war with the judges themselves.  Welcome to the jungle of the judges. A secretive, dark jungle that our judges are fighting fiercely to protect. In the judges' jungle, names are selected by a mixture of judicial and political patronage. Sometimes as many as 40 names are advanced to the minister for one position. If inclined, the minister can always find a familiar, loyal party name to select. And they nearly always do.  The same jungle allows judges to avoid any declaration of financial interests.  Other perks of the job include the virtual impossibility of redundancy. It needs a two thirds majority of the Dail to remove a judge. It has never happened.  It was the JAAB system that barrister O'Callaghan was purporting to reform. The Government welcomed his Bill in principle. Everyone in the Dail was singing from the same hymn sheet.  Or had we been blindsided? Jim's new Bill certainly loosened the grip of politicians on the judicial jungle. In that way it was an improvement. But barrister Jim simply replaced it by strengthening the hands of the judges. He wanted a new commission to replace the JAAB, holding interviews, but with a majority of lawyers on the 12-person board. A minority would be nominated by civil society bodies. The Minister for Justice would be sent only three names by the new judge-dominated commission. They would be ranked. The minister would have a choice all right, limited to a few names, but all three the pick of the Law Library and the judges.  The Bill is a judicial coup aimed at heading off serious reforms. Political patronage would be reduced. Judicial influence would reign supreme.  Elsewhere, the judges are digging in. Delaying tactics, which have worked wonderfully for 20 years, are surfacing. At the government-formation talks in May the Independent Alliance insisted that the Programme for Government included the radical reform of the JAAB, specifically inserting a clause that the new selection body should have an independent chair and a lay majority. It is binding on Fine Gael. Although the proposal has been embraced by current Minister for Justice Frances Fitzgerald it has spooked their lordships. Apologists for legal insiders are opportunistically protesting that the agreement not to appoint any more judges until the old system ends is denying justice. The longer they can delay reforming legislation, the louder they can cynically protest that justice is being denied to plaintiffs and defendants.  They are on weak ground. Several judges were appointed in July under the old system. There are few gaps in any of the courts. The JAAB website says there are no vacancies at present. The only way to defeat the rearguard action being fought by the Law Library and the bench against new legislation is to freeze appointments for a very short time. Otherwise the old system will continue into infinity.   Shane Ross is Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport Sunday Independent 
