politics
{  
    February 14 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/people-have-had-enough-of-this-political-charade-and-demand-real-change-26632140.html }
The scale of the public's disillusion and anger with both the Coalition Government and the political system is made real in today's opinion poll. The public have no faith in the Government, no faith in the leaders of the governing parties or in the leader of Fine Gael and would back an all-party government by a majority of two to one. Just under a third think George Lee, who resigned last week from politics, should launch his own political party and a slim majority believe that he was right to resign. The findings, which are in line with all the polls that have been conducted over the past 12 months, highlight the vast distance that now exists between the people and those they have elected to represent them. The only politicians who stand out from the crowd of disappointments are Brian Lenihan, the Minister for Finance, who now enjoys a positive satisfaction rating, along with Eamon Gilmore, the leader of the Labour Party. For the rest, the news is unremittingly grim. The figures for the individual parties show no significant break from recent trends: Fianna Fail, with 27 per cent support, has arrested its steep decline; Fine Gael, up four points in a year to 34 per cent, is confirmed as the country's most popular party, while Labour, down three points to 19 per cent, cannot capitalise on the popularity of Gilmore. The Green Party, the very junior member of the coalition with Fianna Fail, also stuck rigidly to trend, as it continues its slide to electoral obliteration. At two per cent, down a point, it now lives in the margin of error: it could be polling a couple of points higher, or it could be bouncing close to zero. And no matter how badly it was doing last Wednesday and Thursday when the polling took place, its fortunes can only have dived further following Friday's acrimonious resignation of Deirdre de Burca, the Green senator. Her full-frontal assault on John Gormley, the Green leader, and on the surrender of principle in pursuit of power, must erode grassroot faith in a party that has loyally propped up Brian Cowen's government through the economic crisis. Those figures for party support, however, only distract from the real issue: public disillusion. It is a deeply worrying phenomenon and one that the parties themselves have failed to grasp. The current political establishment have refused to accept that the collapse of the economy, the implosion of the banking system and the horrendous rise in unemployment should result in a fundamental overhaul of our political system and the way in which the State is governed. Politicians from all parties point to external causes for Ireland's demise -- the fall of Lehman Brothers, the US investment bank; the credit squeeze, the global recession -- or they point fingers at each other. Yet the people believe that all politicians, and all political parties, played a part in Ireland's hubris and contributed to its fall. And they have no confidence that any individual party can plot a way out of the mess. Although they claim to be good listeners, politicians have not heard the message. They have tinkered with their own expenses regime, taken a pay cut and then carried on as before. There is no agenda to reform the Dail, no plan to cut the number of deputies, or eliminate some government departments; no attempt to replace the adversarial politics of old with a common purpose, no awareness that the perceived rottenness of the system demands overhaul. They fail, too, to sense the anger even when it throws George Lee into their sandpit. Lee's election last summer should have been the signal for change. He defeated old politics -- Labour's Alex White and Fianna Fail's nepotism -- by offering no more than change. He was fresh, enthusiastic, idealist and definitively not from the old school. The problem, perhaps, was that no one in the Dail managed to look beyond Lee. They thought they had a new celebrity in their midst, a journalist with an overblown sense of his own importance who lacked the grit to actually make a difference. So Lee was humoured, patronised, ignored and left to stew. Unfortunately Lee was also blind to the forces that elected him and was too consumed by his own brilliance to make those forces work to his advantage. He should have clamoured for access and influence, demanding to have his voice heard. He should have bombarded Richard Bruton, Fine Gael's finance spokesman, with ideas and should have used his unrivalled access to the media to put across those ideas to the people. But Lee sat and waited for the world to come to him, articulating no ideas, convening no meetings and forgetting the reason he was in the Dail in the first place. He needed to communicate the people's anger and disillusionment, but instead he allowed himself to focus on his own. Blinded by his own light, Lee drifted towards the ultimate betrayal of the people who had elected him with such hope: he abandoned them. Last week a slim majority of those polled -- 43 per cent to 40 per cent -- still believed that he had done the right thing, and a far more convincing majority believed that he should be allowed to return to RTE, the state broadcaster whence he came. There is still affection for Lee, and a surprisingly large chunk of the electorate thinks he should reignite his political career by launching his own party. At a glance it may seem a small enough number -- 27 per cent think Lee should re-enter politics with his own brand -- but the same small number represents the total support for Fianna Fail. Not all of those who think Lee should launch would necessarily support him, and none of them would know what policies his party might follow, but all of them know that Irish politics desperately needs an infusion of new blood. A psychologist would call it a cry, even a howl, for help: 27,000 people howled in South Dublin last year, but no one in Leinster House listened, and even Lee failed to grasp its significance. He thought it was all about him, when in truth it was all about the people who voted for him. The support for a national government is even more dramatic than the affection for Lee. It is a concept derided by politicians and by media commentators -- some on the pragmatic grounds that a national government could never be agreed, others because it offends the principle of adversarial politics -- yet it is clearly what the people want. They want an end to bickering and political slanging matches, an end to point scoring and finger pointing. In its place, they want common sense. We are in a crisis, and have a long road to travel, so why not use the best resources available to us, rather than stick with the ones who belong to the governing parties. There is talent, experience and youth on the opposition benches, but probably not enough to form a credible government on their own. There is experience and a modicum of talent on the government benches -- Lenihan has clearly convinced the people of his ability, even if the markets hold their judgement until the Budget is delivered rather than promised -- yet self-evidently the Government does not have enough talent within its ranks to generate confidence. The popular will, however, does not form governments. The current coalition will see out its term unless the Green Party is driven out by its own supporters (82 per cent of whom are dissatisfied with their own Government), and the choice at the next election will be the same as always. And that is where Fine Gael runs into serious difficulty. Enda Kenny, the party leader, has slipped ever lower in the public's estimation and now languishes alongside Brian Cowen, a central player in the economic collapse and a hapless leader, and John Gormley, leader of the country's least popular political party. A significant majority believe that Kenny will be jettisoned by his party before the next election and he is undeniably a drag on the party's fortunes. Richard Bruton is the only credible alternative, attracting 65 per cent support, but there can be no certainty that he would have the leadership skills to transform Fine Gael from a coalition wannabe into a serious, single party government contender. Bruton shares the blame for Lee's disaffection -- not because he ignored Lee, but because he too ignored the people who had sent him there. A single-party government is where the party's ambitions should lie (its compatibility with Labour erodes by the day), and that is where its poll rating should stand after the past 18 months of financial disarray and rudderless government. Instead, it attracts far less support now than Fianna Fail did at the last two elections. Kenny's handling of the Lee affair was fresh in the minds of those polled last week, but there is no sense that Kenny's decline is a one off. Far better for him to have slumped by 10 or 15 points in a week -- a fall that might have been as quickly reversed -- than to deflate like a slow puncture. The poll also shows that public anger with the banks has not been diluted. A massive majority of more than 90 per cent craves criminal prosecutions of bankers who broke financial regulations. A strong majority also believe that there will be no increase in bank lending once the National Asset Management Agency buys the banks' property portfolios for more than they are worth. There is, too, not much sympathy for bailouts: 38 per cent would let banks fend for themselves, and would shed no tears if they collapsed; 27 per cent would nationalise them and wipe out shareholders while just 26 per cent choose continued life support that falls short of nationalisation (in other words, current government policy). The parties may choose to ignore this poll, and the ones that follow it. They will want to focus exclusively on the political game -- the rise and fall in party support -- and to ignore the bigger, and far more frightening, picture that shows a public which has lost faith in the system. How is it possible for the leader of the main opposition party to survive if more than 60 per cent of the people have no faith in him? How can a government survive a dissatisfaction rating of more than 80 per cent, or a Taoiseach a dissatisfaction rating of more than 70 per cent? And how can politicians look at those figures and not realise that there is a sickness that must be cured? The system has to change: there must be a radical overhaul of the Dail, of its conventions and conceits. There must be fewer TDs, fewer departments, fewer ministers. If there is to be a Senate, then it too must be smaller, cheaper and more relevant: instead of a holding area for politicians rejected by the people, it needs to be filled with people who can do the State some service, and who can be co-opted into government to serve. There must be more transparency, more honesty and more freedom for individual TDs to speak their minds. Will anything change? Unlikely. Leinster House is a world apart, its customs and its systems cocooned from the real world and its members too wrapped up in the game to see that that is all it is. The people want more, but they will not get it, and when the next election comes around they will get the same choices. For politicians, the poll means simpler things: for Gilmore, it shows that populism, however empty, makes you popular; for Cowen, that the worst may be over for his party; for Kenny, that the worst is still to come, and for the Greens, that their party may be over. Those are the game trends, the points that excite politicians and the reporters who follow them. The real trend is simpler still: the people see through the charade, and do not like it. They are disillusioned, angry and demanding change and there has been no diminution of that anger in the past year. Sunday Independent 
