politics
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    January 01 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/how-saying-the-wrong-thing-can-be-often-right-35333014.html }
The epitaph writers may have spoken too soon when they hailed 2016 as the year that political correctness finally died.  Following an announcement by publisher Simon & Schuster of a $250,000 book deal with Milo Yiannopoulos, controversial editor with conservative news platform Breitbart, fellow authors have rushed to denounce the decision. Apparently, those with the "right" views must be protected at all costs from those with the "wrong" ones, for fear of terrible consequences.  The Chicago Review Of Books has even declared that it will not review a single book published by the company during 2017 in protest.  That Yiannopoulos's book is to be on the subject of free speech is an irony that has passed by the protesters.  The story is another example of the growing disconnect between secluded media luvvies, who are unable to cope with challenges to their political outlook without falling apart like a Victorian gentlewoman swooning at the sight of a naked ankle, and most ordinary people, who have quietly come to the conclusion that this pampered elite has gone stark, staring mad.  Some welcome evidence that political correctness is, if not dead, at least struggling, comes in the form of a new survey by Irish market research company Amarach which finds that 76pc of people in Ireland agree with the statement that "political correctness has gone too far". Inevitably, there are plenty of provisos. Older people are much less likely to take offence than hyper-sensitive 20- and 30-somethings. A massive 87pc of the over-55s think that political correctness has gone too far; the equivalent figure for 25- to 34-year-olds is only 63pc. Still a clear majority, but much less emphatic. There are also some differences between the sexes. Men are a third more likely than women to "strongly agree" with the statement; women are more than twice as likely as men to "disagree strongly".  Nonetheless, more than seven out of 10 men and women not only think that political correctness has "gone too far", but also agree that: "These days, it seems like you can not say anything without someone feeling offended."  There's an understatement, if ever there was one.  Of course, it all depends how political correctness is defined in the first place. It means different things to different people. It also crosses ideological divides. Despite railing against "PC culture" in his campaign for the  presidency, there is no one more confused about free speech than Donald Trump. He constantly declares himself mortally offended by the words of his critics, while loudly insisting on his right to insult and denigrate others.  For some, it just means avoiding language that might be offensive to others. Few would now argue that the N-word is acceptable for black people, for example, or that gay people should be traduced because of their sexuality.  It's when an exhortation to avoid certain words is widened to include a fatwa against whole ways of thinking that the deeper malaise begins. Policing language is one thing. Policing thought is much more dangerous. An aphorism often attributed to Voltaire says: "To learn who rules over you, simply find who you are not allowed to criticise." To learn what political correctness is, simply find what you are not allowed to discuss without being branded a racist or sexist. Criticism of aspects of Muslim culture is now routinely denounced as "Islamophobia"; being against same-sex marriage is automatically taken as evidence of "homophobia"; refusing to accept every edict of a certain brand of feminism has become "misogyny".  When people talk about political correctness going "too far", this is what they mean.  Feeling offended isn't the problem. It's when those feelings turn into organised outrage, with calls for punishment and retribution, that you know something has done seriously wrong with some people's sense of proportion.  In his book, So You've Been Publicly Shamed, Jon Ronson describes how shaming has gone from being a tool to enforce traditional religious values to mainly being a weapon against those who transgress political correctness instead.  No one cares if you sleep with the nanny any more. But make a stupid joke about Aids, as American PR consultant Justine Sacco did to her 170 Twitter followers while on a flight to South Africa, and the consequences can be terrifying. A campaign was launched against her. She lost her job, a development which was welcomed gleefully online. Her life has never been the same.  Stand-up comedian George Carlin, now sadly dead, put it best when he said that this type of political correctness was an "especially pernicious" form of intolerance "because it comes disguised as tolerance".  That's it exactly. For a long time, those who championed thought control in the interests of social justice were given the benefit of the doubt. Increasingly, it's become evident that they are the real threat to freedom. Hence the long overdue kickback.  The Amarach survey may find that people are sometimes or often biting their tongue to avoid giving offence, but that doesn't mean they have to like it. They might even agree with the proposition that those who complain most loudly about political correctness "just resent that they can not say everything they want to anymore".  The fact that they can hold that view simultaneously with the belief that political correctness has gone too far, and that many people are too easily offended these days, shows that they have a much more subtle grasp of the complexities of the issue than the overbearing media and university clique who've been trying to force political correctness down everyone's throats since they first realised that politeness would stop many of us from telling them that they were hysterical and just needed to get a grip.  It's not just old people clinging to a nostalgic vision of a world in which they could say whatever they liked and get away with it either.  The most encouraging part of this survey is that under-25s are almost as enthusiastic about putting the brakes on the permanently outraged, too, with 74pc agreeing that political correctness has gone, if not mad, at least too far.  That has to be a good sign for the future. The so-called "millennials" might be a generation of delicate little snowflakes unable to cope with different opinions, but those coming up behind appear to be made of sterner stuff.  Sunday Independent 
