politics
{  
    March 04 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/candidates-on-their-marks-for-local-elections-27366383.html }
Come next June, nothing short of a five per cent national swing against Fianna Fáil will alter the main government partys dominance of the political make-up of Kerry County Council.Fianna Fáil currently holds twelve seats  twice as many seats as the main opposition party, Fine Gael. With just over four months to go before voting in the 2004 local e Come next June, nothing short of a five per cent national swing against Fianna Fáil will alter the main government party’s dominance of the political make-up of Kerry County Council. Fianna Fáil currently holds twelve seats – twice as many seats as the main opposition party, Fine Gael. With just over four months to go before voting in the 2004 local elections, all but a few candidates have declared their intentions or have survived a vote of their party colleagues at convention. As each convention unfolded throughout the last six months of 2003, the only real political drama and surprises seemed to occur within parties themselves. Fianna Fáil’s strategy of having all candidates selected by the year’s end was successfully executed. The dual mandate held by some members of Kerry County Council meant that people like Jackie Healy Rae, Thomas McEllistrim, Jimmy Deenihan and Martin Ferris could hold a seat on their local authority while members of the Oireachtas. Its abolition was eventually overseen by Minister Martin Cullen after his predecessor, Noel Dempsey, was first to witness the nationwide opposition to the legislation. At the forefront of the opposition to the ending of the dual mandate was Jackie Healy Rae. The Kilgarvan TD claimed that Independent deputies like himself, without the back-up of a large political party within the constituency, needed to keep in touch with matters at home by holding a council seat. Many commentators believed that one of Fianna Fáil’s original motives in ending the dual mandate was to curb the swell of independent TDs like Jackie Healy Rae by cutting their connection with local politics and, as a result, damaging their vote. But, ironically, the change has strengthened the Healy Rae machine facing into the next local elections: there are now more of the family than ever before involved in politics. Danny Healy Rae was co-opted to replace his father because of the new dual mandate rule. He now sits beside his brother Michael, while Jackie waves the family flag in Leinster House. The colourful TD’s massive 3,300 votes at the last local elections was unrivalled in Kerry. His son Danny is unlikely to maintain this support, but half of the vote is more than enough to win him a seat. Michael Healy Rae runs in the Killorglin area, undoubtedly the toughest Electoral Area come the electronic count on June 12 next. Fianna Fáil is still licking its wounds in Killarney. The last general election gave rise to the beginning of Minister O’Donoghue’s campaign to establish territorial dominance around the South Kerry constituency. Those who supported Tom Fleming – who was pipped at the post in the general election – felt that the South Kerry minister should have made himself scarce in Killarney and left the South Kerry capital town to his running-mate. But the Minister was not leaving the clinics, grants and time spent in Killarney go unrewarded at the general election. His obvious political move to have a councillor based in Killarney has, so far, worked like a dream. The current Fianna Fáil councillors, Brian O’Leary and Tom Fleming, are loyal to the party and to their electorate. But by no means do they act as the eyes and ears of the Cahersiveen-based minister. Colin Miller, Personal Assistant to Minister O’Donoghue, was the obvious choice. Affectionately known as the ‘Junior Minister’, he has effectively acted as the Minister’s front man around Killarney for the past six years. An internal party coup to block Colin Miller at convention failed. He is now on the ticket with sitting councillors O’Leary and Fleming. The three will battle it out to hold the existing two seats. But with almost two and a half quotas, a third seat is not impossible. Fine Gael’s poor numerical representation at Kerry County Council is epitomised by their standing in Killarney. Despite Senator Paul Coghlan, who hails from the town, the party has just one representative on Killarney Town Council and does not hold a seat for the area on the County Council. Senator Coghlan is not standing in the local elections; most of his focus is on maintaining his Seanad seat. The convention selected sitting Town Councillor Sheila Casey and Tommy Sheahan as the candidates for the local elections. The first lady mayor of Killarney, Councillor Casey’s profile has grown significantly there. And the former Torc Hotel employee is widely respected and liked across all party persuasions – a valuable asset in local elections that are often more about personalities than political parties. Tommy Sheahan’s political pedigree is unquestioned. The Sheahans from Glenbeigh are long-standing Fine Gael stalwarts. But winning a seat from his Rathmore base, first time out, could prove difficult. Fine Gael piled on the candidates in the Listowel Electoral Area as the party attempts to better its two-seat representation. Liam Purtill is still feeling his way in local politics after he was co-opted to replace Jimmy Deenihan, another casualty of the dual mandate law. Sitting councillors Tim Buckley and Liam Purtill are joined on the ticket by Bernie Behan and Denis Stack – two formidable and experienced candidates. But with four candidates for two seats, a change of faces on the same number of seats is the most likely surprise. Sinn Féin has launched a massive political campaign across the county for these elections. They have candidates in all electoral areas except Killarney. When Deputy Martin Ferris’s North Kerry vote from the last Dáil election is analysed, the chances of Sinn Féin winning a seat in the Listowel Electoral Area appear very strong, possibly at Fianna Fáil’s expense. With just 2.5 quotas in that area in 1999, the party miraculously managed to take three seats. Fine Gael’s Brendan Griffin is the youngest candidate in the entire local elections field and he joins sitting councillor Séamus Cosaí MacGearailt in the Dingle Electoral Area. Bobby O’Connell will fight to hold his Fine Gael seat from his Castleisland base in the Tralee Electoral Area. John Shanahan and Pat McCarthy are both re-entering the political fold in an effort to increase the party’s representation in Tralee, traditionally a poor polling area for Fine Gael. Labour has everything to gain and little to lose next June. The party’s three seats on Kerry County Council is less than the Independents combined. Their strongest representative, Deputy Breeda Moynihan Cronin, was also lost to the dual mandate and her replacement, Andy McCarthy, along with Town Councillor Sean O’Grady are left to fly the flag in Killarney. Donal Barry, who defected from Fine Gael to Labour, stands in the Killorglin Electoral Area. Political success will require all hands on deck, including those of his father and former Fine Gael Councillor Dan Barry. The Labour Party in Tralee is still struggling to fill the political void once dominated for four decades by the Spring family. Maeve Spring’s political shoes will be very hard to fill: Donal Tobin, one of the party’s candidates in Tralee, readily admits this fact. The Green Party’s success at national level has clearly filtered through to Kerry in the form of renewed confidence and enthusiasm. David Grey joins former Town Councillor Conor Fitzgerald in the Tralee Electoral Area. Bea O’Neill is looking for a seat on Killarney Town Council and the County Council. In 1985 the party made history when Marcus Counihan – then a member of the Ecology Party – was elected to what was then Killarney Urban District Council. The party subsequently lost its seat and is currently without any public representation in the county. Coming through as an elected councillor for the Killorglin Electoral Area poses no small challenge for the June local election candidates. Fianna Fáil’s Paul O’Donoghue and Michael Cahill have significant reinforcement in solicitor Liam Crowley and former candidate Dan McCarthy. Fine Gael’s Johnny O’Connor is determined to capture the political success that narrowly eluded him in 1999, while Michael Healy Rae’s profile and work record should be enough to secure his leg of the Kilgarvan family trio. Success next June for Michael Conor Scarteen will ensure his informal title as the most senior member of the council. Apart from Councillor Paul O’Donoghue, Councillor PJ Donovan from Cahersiveen has little opposition in his home town. The Independent grouping within Kerry County Council has firmly established itself over the past four years. Councillors Billy Leen, Brendan Cronin, two Healy Raes and Michael Gleeson of the South Kerry Independent Alliance are by far the most vocal grouping in the council chamber. Without a party whip or strict voting pacts, the Independents have used their position to lead many debates in the council, not least on the planning issue. Next June also marks the end of a long-standing tradition in Kerry when electronic voting and counting will replace the hustle and bustle of tallymen, bundles of ballot papers and controversial recounts. But the new voting system has caused concern among some public representatives. Deputy Jackie Healy Rae and Councillor John Brassil fear that the whole affair might cause for more confusion than efficiency. Some voters will be faced with the electronic screen displaying three ballot papers: one for Town Council elections, one for County Council elections and one for European elections. And on June 12, the single count centre in Kerry – most likely to be in Killarney – will be just a shade of former elections. By noon on June 12, a single microchip will have etched out most of Kerry’s local political landscape. 
