politics
{  
    May 07 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/rosney-stands-for-sinn-fein-in-borrisokane-27439024.html }
North Tipperary appears to be leading the way with representation of young female candidates for the local elections. 	The current case in point is twenty-year old Arts student Aideen Rosney, as she gears up to canvas as Sinn Féin candidate in the Borrisokane electoral sphere.	In spite of her youth Aideen has embraced the world of pro-active politics with open arms an By Simon O’ Duffy  North Tipperary appears to be leading the way with representation of young female candidates for the local elections. The current case in point is twenty-year old Arts student Aideen Rosney, as she gears up to canvas as Sinn Féin candidate in the Borrisokane electoral sphere. In spite of her youth Aideen has embraced the world of pro-active politics with open arms and a determination to inject fresh input into the local political scene through the medium of an ever expansive and adaptive Sinn Féin movement. Now on the brink of completing her third year as a BA undergraduate studying Law, Politics and Sociology at NUI Galway, the Borrisokane girl comes across as an educated, dedicated and highly focused acolyte of the political system. “I’ve had an interest from an early age in current affairs and politics in general”, Aideen states, tracing the routes of her fascination with the disciple. “I suppose the interest really started when I went to college in 2001 and got involved in the societies and committees there. I decided to sign up for Sinn Féin and after that it snowballed, as I started going to meetings and trips away and so on”. As with last weeks’ Sinn Féin interviewee Ella O’Dwyer, Aideen admits to something of an apolitical background, coming from a family that would have thrown the odd vote the way of Fianna Fáil for the sake of tradition, but never really discussing politics as an issue worthy of concern. She claims that it was only after becoming au fait with political academia in Galway that Aideen decided to choose her present path. But why Sinn Féin? “I thought Sinn Féin stood out”, she answers. “The Sinn Féin Cumann in UCG is the most politically active in Galway, the whole country really. With all the corruption that was going on at the time Sinn Féin just seemed like the natural choice for me. I suppose I would always have had some sort of interest in the Republican movement anyway, the issue of the Six Counties being very important to me. And Fianna Fáil just don’t do it for me at all!” The year she joined the NUIG Sinn Féin Cumann they hosted an Ogra national conference attended by several international speakers, whose discussion of the issues facing young people in Ireland today fired Aideen’s interest in youth politics. Soon she was involved in several Party campaigns, travelled to Belfast and Derry to commemorate Bloody Sunday Weekend, and quickly rose through the ranks of her Cumann. By Second Year she was Cumann Secretary with the portfolio of organising local meetings and excursions. She presently holds the position of Chairperson of the NUIG Sinn Féin Cumann. The next step on this road of distinguished progression, Aideen hopes, is a seat on the Borrisokane Council, testament to the fact that her ambition knows no bounds. “I’d been thinking about the idea for a while”, she says. “I discussed it with Jimmy Nolan and Séamie Morris in Nenagh. They thought that maybe I should wait until I’d finished in college and done my exams or whatever. But I just felt that there was an opening for Sinn Féin in my area, so I just decided to go for it”. Central to her concern is a desire to awaken an interest in politics among people her own age in the North Tipp region and to alleviate political antipathy in general. “Politics is just dead for young people around here”, Aideen believes. “I think the youth have absolutely no interest and I think that’s a pity because coming from college I can see how interesting politics can be and also how useful it can be if you get involved at any level. I think there are a lot of people in North Tipp who don’t see that. It’s only when you start an organisation like Ogra and get the young people involved that they see how to discuss issues and start thinking about national politics and local politics and how it effects their area. That’s something I’d like to develop in Borrisokane”. Aideen blames the conservatism and consequently perceived stagnation of local political activists for the scathing sense of apathy that characterises so much about today’s face of politics. Her solution? A youthful and vigorous makeover of that face. “I think people are disillusioned, not to mention disappointed with the parties at the moment and the TDs that have been elected. I know that in my area we see very little of the TDs and Councillors after they are elected. At election time they’re going around begging for your vote, and then you neither see nor hear anything from them until the next election. I think that has to change. “I want to see more young people involved who are full of enthusiasm – that’s where real change can come from. I think that a lot of the old faces need to change. It’s time for Ogra groups and the youth from all parties to get stuck in and get actively involved in politics”. And for this young student of political theory Sinn Féin is the party from which this change can come. “In this day and age I think Sinn Féin is in a transition”, Aideen says. “To me Sinn Féin represents a radical voice in politics. I think we’re in a new era compared to the old political outlook, which was obviously most concerned about the Troubles. There is still a lot of stigma attached to Sinn Féin. But I think that’s changing now, along with people’s attitudes. “Sinn Féin is about choice, offering something different in government. Realistically people are sick of Fianna Fáil, and it doesn’t seem as if Fine Gael or Labour have anything to offer to young people. Sinn Féin is definitely a different way of looking to the future”. And so to Aideen’s own political agenda, which she hopes to enforce should she be elected on June 11th. Topping the bill in association with the introduction of an Ogra outlet to Borrisokane is the issue of the Hanly Report and the downgrading of Nenagh General Hospital. “That’s a huge issue and one that people aren’t really looking into. I don’t think people will fully realise until Nenagh Hospital is gone what a loss it will be, so I think we really need to make a push on that”. She will also lobby for the abolition of the means test for carers. “That’s an issue very close to my heart, having many relatives who need special care. I think that if someone is caring for somebody in need then they should be entitled to financial support no matter what they’re doing”. Another prominent aim will be the resurrection of the Irish language, an aspect of modern society that Aideen feels strongly about. “In the national schools especially I think the Irish language is suffering and that’s something that Sinn Féin would like to promote as a national concern. In my own area no one seems to have a word of Irish and I think that’s a real shame. In Galway they’re making a great effort to revive the language and keep it alive. I’d like to be able to achieve something similar here too”. Like Ella O’Dwyer running for election to the County Council, Aideen is also committed to improving agricultural concerns in North Tipp and campaigning for the kind of infrastructure that will stem the tide of youth emigration from small towns like Borrisokane to larger urban centres in search of employment. And like Nenagh’s young Labour Party candidate Sandra Farrell, Aideen refuses to see her age as a barrier to success. Far from it, she sees the fresh enthusiasm of youth as an advantage, and although she may not turn twenty-one until August she does not believe that inexperience will count against her. “No, I wouldn’t think so”, she affirms. “I don’t think you can say I lack experience because if anything there are other candidates in Borrisokane who have little more. As far as I’m concerned I’m studying politics in college, I’m learning it every day; the Cumann meets every week. “So I’m not inexperienced. Obviously there are a lot of local issues that I need to develop my knowledge of but that’s all part of the learning process. I don’t think I’ll have any problems coping if I get elected, I’ll get stuck right in. I know about the stigma attached to young people getting into politics, but how can things move on if you stay stuck in the same place? Things stagnate. You have to give young people a chance, allow for that enthusiasm from someone who actually believes in it. Sometimes I wonder if some of our politicians really believe in what they do anymore”. There is no questioning Aideen’s belief in her personal capacity to succeed, or that of the Sinn Féin as a whole, which she believes to be teetering on the brink of unsurpassed success. “I think this is going to be a very good year for Sinn Féin overall. We’re a great alternative, especially for the youth of North Tipp. I think people will be surprised by how well we do. We have candidates in all the electoral areas now; it’s going to be a good one”. The interview concludes with Aideen preparing for a public meeting of the Rathcabbin Environmental Action Group over the vermi compost controversy in the area, anxious to learn more about how things get done in local politics. “It seems to me that the council are just dragging their heals over this”, she says. “I can sort of see from a distance what needs to be done. But if I were elected I could really do something about it. I could really get stuck in!” 
