politics
{ MAURICE HAYES 
    October 16 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/rewarding-the-brave-and-bold-who-broke-the-mould-26172063.html }
LIKE ALL captains of title winning teams receiving the applause of thousands, both John Hume and David Trimble will no doubt accept the Nobel Prize and the plaudits as having been earned by team effort. This is most practically and symbolically true. A large number of people contributed to the degree of peace we have at present, some in efforts extending over years, some having come more recently to the political process or to compromise. Many will think that the net should have been spread more widely. But to cover even the recent protagonists would have been a litany including Gerry Adams, Tony Blair, Bertie Ahern, George Mitchell, Mo Mowlam, and behind that John Major and Albert Reynolds, not to mention an army of officials and sundry go betweens and helpers. The award should be welcomed most, however, because it locates credit and honour in a place where it was most important for it to be recognised with the politicians in Northern Ireland and leaders of political parities there. In the end of the day, agreement could not be imposed, it could only be arrived at by those on the ground who were affected, and who could themselves effect change in public attitudes. It was they too who put their political reputations, their social and economic future, perhaps even their lives, on the line. It was they who required the vision to see that a compromise was necessary and the courage to make it. TWO COMMUNITIES There were others, outsiders, who were important as facilitators, and monitors, persuaders, encouragers, for bringing political weight and influence and great political experience to bear on the problem, but in the end the agreement was forged, not without great difficulty, and scarcely to anyone's complete satisfaction, by the group of honourable brave men and women who had been elected by the voters of Northern Ireland to do so. It is right that this award should be seen as a tribute to them, through two of their members. Most people too will accept the logic of an award to John Hume and David Trimble, rather than to an individual or a larger group. It symbolises that in the same way as it takes two to make a fight, it takes two (or more) to end one. The essential nature of the Agreement is not that it is an arrangement between political leaders (although they were required to deliver it) but that it is an acceptance by both traditions in Northern Ireland of the fact of difference, of the reality that they depend on each other, and that they need to arrive at some sort of consensus about how to manage their lives together. This duality has mainly been represented in political terms by unionism and nationalism and it is their standard bearers who are being recognised. An award to John Hume alone, well justified though that would be, by the consistency of his contribution over the last three decades, would, somehow, have missed the point, and lessened the impact on the community as a whole. While nationalists would have been gratified, unionists (including those with a great deal of respect for John Hume) might have felt that somehow their part in making the peace had been overlooked or discounted, and that their politicians had been slighted in the process. Politics, therefore, even more than political correctness, pointed in the direction of a dual award. Hume, of course, was always going to be a frontrunner. For 30 years he has laboured mightly and untiringly at the politics of accommodation, cleaving always to the principle of non-violence, the importance of people over ideology, the need for compromise and of a wider and more generous definition of nationalism. Through Credit Union, Civil Rights, Assembly, Executive, Convention, Westminster and European Parliaments, his has been a voice of singular consistency. More than any other person, he internationalised the discussion and recruited political and economic interest in Europe and America. In his persistence in the search for peace he has passed up personal advancement in politics and in other fields. He might, for example, have had the Irish Presidency last year. Most of the seminal ideas in the peace process have come from him the three stranded process, the double referendum, the concept of richness in diversity. Always a teacher, he almost single handedly changed the nature of nationalism, North and South, and was the first to take the risk of isolation, derision and worse, by being the one to bring Sinn Fein in from the cold, to ease the way towards politics for those who have become sceptical of the prospects of an armed struggle and violence. David Trimble, having come late into the lists, and having been elected leader of his party on a fairly hardline ticket, has had the courage to embrace the double task of finding a compromise with his political opponents and finding support among his own party and unionist voters, for the compromises which he had to make. During the negotiations leading up to the Agreement and since, his stature has risen steadily as was seen in his reception at the Labour Party Conference and in the USA. He has now become a major player on a larger stage, and has developed a sense of calm and self-confidence, which is helping him to deal with the continuing problems which arise in processes of this sort. COURAGEOUS MOVE Many Republicans will be disappointed that Gerry Adams's name has not been included. It does indeed take courage, both physical and political, to persuade an organisation which is suspicious of politics and politicians, which has been traditionally wedded to the gun, and which takes a black and white and exclusivist view both of its goals and how to get there, to persuade such a combination that there is a better way, that the day for the gun has passed, that violence if over, done with, finished, and to do so over a period of years, deserves recognition too. But since the Agreement is the marriage of two traditions, (or at least an agreement for cohabitation), symmetry would have been destroyed by a third recipient. So Adams must take his place with George Mitchell, Mo Mowlam, and all those others whose efforts were essential too. There will of course be cynics who deride the award, pointing out that the Nobel Prize was a kiss of death for the peace people, that some previous winners were not quite up to snuff, and that the award was made prematurely in other peace processes which seemed to have gone into reverse. However, most people in Northern Ireland and more widely will see this not as an occasion for begrudgery, but a recognition of courage, vision and effort. The immediate political effect in Northern Ireland is likely to be positive, although not necessarily nor universally so. The glow of approval is likely to confirm and encourage those who are working on the implementation of the agreement, it will be harder for all those who are at the table, to withdraw in the face of public acclaim of what they have done to get there. It also raises the price for those who want to walk away, or who are seen to be intransigent. Few will want to court the opprobrium of pulling out the brick that brings the whole edifice down. It may well be, therefore, that the award increases the pressure on the parties to make the further accommodations which are necessary to secure implementation. AT THE moment, Sinn Fein are blaming Trimble for making decommissioning a stumbling block, and he is blaming them for making it so. This is to totally misapprehend the difficulties this causes for him. Both sides might now be encouraged to take their courage in their hands and take some sort of a leap of faith in the direction of each other. Otherwise, they run the risk of looking extremely foolish in the eyes of a world which has just applauded them for courage and vision.  It might not all be plain sailing for Trimble. There are unionists who will becry the performance and the award. There is a great leveller tradition in unionism, which suspects a leader who gets plaudits from others, and who will say with the poet ``just for a handful of silver he left us just for a ribbon to tie on his coat.'' But the broad mass of the population on both sides will welcome the award, and will will the politicians to press on to completion. Which is probably what the Nobel Committee had in mind too. 
