politics
{  
    July 14 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sinnott-case-and-republican-riot-show-up-same-political-cynicism-26249674.html }
The handling of the Sinnott case and the peace process show Irish politics must mature, says Alan Ruddock PERHAPS the events of the past week give a clue as to why Ireland, despite nearly a decade of spectacular economic growth, is in such a dishevelled state. The litany of our failures can be reeled off by any citizen: poorly managed, poorly funded and poorly delivered public services. Pick your service and your own personal horror story. Last week, the Jamie Sinnott case highlighted yet another gaping hole in this Government's attitude to the basic rights of its citizens. Instead of seeking to defend and extend those rights, its instinct was to fight and restrict them. It is the mentality rather than the victory, however pyrrhic, that matters: nothing Dr Michael Woods says now can make up for the Government's decision to appeal Jamie Sinnott's High Court victory to the Supreme Court. Nothing, that is, short of a complete u-turn, one that delivers a constitutional change that makes the provision of rights based on need and not on any other criterion. When institutional failure is personalised, it is much easier to both understand and loathe. It is starkly obvious to most people (except this Government) that the needs of an autistic person do not magically cease at some arbitrary age. Our responsibility to that person and it is our collective responsibility is clear: we must provide the opportunities for him or her to lead as fulfilled a life as is possible. Dr Woods' difficulties, of course, go far deeper than simply being exposed as a representative of a Government that fails to understand its proper role in life. Just as the Department of Justice cannot provide adequate accommodation for child offenders, Dr Woods cannot provide adequate education for those with special needs. So he and his department must seek to block that provision, and thereby find a legal cloak for their failure. Public outcry is matched by soundbites that seek to soften and deflect the blows until such time as the outcry dissipates, as it surely will. To believe that the Sinnott case will fundamentally alter the way this Government thinks and acts is to indulge in self-delusion. Politics in Ireland is not about ideology, or belief, about delivering a better society or the pursuit of justice, it is about pragmatism and survival: the politics of the short-term fix. It is not an attitude that is restricted to the Republic's 26 counties. The Sinnott case was played out against the backdrop of yet another round of crisis talks on the Northern Ireland peace process. Jamie Sinnott shared the front pages and the news programmes with the rioters of the Ardoyne and the prevaricators of Weston Park. As an exercise in political cynicism, the peace process has few rivals. And just as the Sinnott case encapsulated so much that is wrong with the administration of this State, so Weston Park and the marching season showed us, in one short week, what is so wrong, and so depressing, about Northern Ireland and its effect on this State. I defy anyone who has been born and raised in this State to feel any empathy or understanding for what happened last week in the North. Do any of us down here comprehend the mentality of those whose lives seem to hinge on the right to march or the right to prevent a march? Does anyone in this State understand a mentality that believes that throwing petrol bombs and acid bombs and blast bombs is a normal, spontaneous response to anything? And all this when the political leaders of all sides are, apparently, trying to thrash out yet another form of words that keeps the peace process lumbering along. This process, born out of the Good Friday Agreement, was meant to create an environment in which trust could grow. By working together in a devolved government, by being given the responsibility to govern many areas of their own lives, the people of Northern Ireland and their political leaders were meant to have the opportunity, no matter how long it took, of finding out that it was possible to create a society in which it was possible to live alongside each other without hatred and violence. Yet how can trust be nurtured when cynicism runs so deep? In the end, does it really matter whether the Ardoyne riots were orchestrated or spontaneous? What the riots showed, once again, was that the people who live in Northern Ireland are as far away as ever from understanding the concept of co-existence. It is not an exclusively nationalist or exclusively unionist problem: it is more simply an example of the people reflecting the attitude of their political leaders. The political process seems to be one of conflict-seeking, rather than conflict resolution. And it is a political process that we are about to have visited upon us in the Republic because it is probable that Sinn Féin, under the astute and breathtakingly cynical leadership of Gerry Adams, will play a significant role in the next Dáil. Because whatever happens at Weston Park whether it's a fudged failure or a fudged success only one thing is certain: Sinn Féin's power will continue to grow. Its ability to organise on the ground, its single-minded focus and the undoubted political prowess of its leadership combine to make it a formidable force. That it has managed to achieve such levels of political respectability while still maintaining its own little army of thugs, and its arsenal of weapons, is an indictment of the political will of the Irish and British governments. The deepest failure has been by the Irish Government, whose equivocation on decommissioning has fostered the environment that has allowed Sinn Féin to have the best of both worlds: a full role in the democratic process and the ever-present threat to that process that its private army provides. It thrives on uncertainty and feeds off others' political weaknesses. It is steadily emasculating the SDLP in Northern Ireland and its sheen of success and machismo is paying dividends in the Republic. Critically, this Government's persistent failure of leadership across a range of issues, from health to education to privatisation and deregulation, indeed to any area of public life one cares to choose, provides the breeding ground for Sinn Féin support. The more feeble the established political parties, the more attractive the appeal of the strutting outsider, especially to the many in Irish society who feel abandoned and disenfranchised by the success of the Tiger economy. And that is why the handling of the Sinnott case and the handling of the peace process are bound by a common thread. They both reveal a government that is blinded by pragmatism and one that is without true belief in anything. Its inadequacies, and the near certainty that its performance and its approval ratings can only disimprove over time, make the prospect of an autumn election, so recently unthinkable, now at least a possibility. With the right approach, an early election could even play a real role in forcing Sinn Féin to meet its responsibilities in Northern Ireland. An election here would give the Republic a chance to make it abundantly clear that decommissioning is not just an issue for unionists, but for all democrats on the island. The prospect of power in the Republic might just be the price Sinn Féin is prepared to pay to surrender its armed threat: a threat that is held over all of us, and not just the people of Northern Ireland. The earlier an election here, perhaps the greater the chance of a genuine breakthrough in the peace process. For that to happen, unfortunately, there would have to be a simultaneous abandonment of cynicism by Mr Adams and an embrace of leadership by Bertie Ahern, the Taoiseach. On recent, or even historical, form, neither is likely. As the Sinnotts have discovered over the past 20 years, and most graphically last week, Irish politics is not deep enough, or compassionate enough, or brave enough, to build a better society. 
