politics
{ John Drennan 
    October 25 2014 09:10 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/john-drennan/lucinda-mary-lou-and-the-so-different-paths-theyve-taken-30693135.html }
In a different, possibly even better world Lucinda Creighton and Mary Lou McDonald could almost be twins ... of the political variety.  NAMES: Mary Lou McDonald and Lucinda Creighton AGE: 45 and 34 POSITIONS: Deputy Leader of Sinn Fein and de facto leader of the Reform Alliance IN THE NEWS BECAUSE: of the contrast between the flight of Mary Lou from Mairia Cahill and Lucinda's very different response to a similar existential crisis. On a surface level, within a Dail shorn of courage and radicalism, they appear to be birds of a political feather. Both appear to have the capacity and the character to transform the direction politics and women in politics may take. They are both feisty, straight-talking and intelligent individuals who inspire fear, respect and not a little loathing amongst the men-folk who do not always appreciate such characteristics. However, after last week it is starkly clear that Lucinda and Mary Lou are most assuredly not birds of a political feather after all. All politicians, no matter how famous, experience a restricted number of defining moments. In the case of Lucinda, this occurred when she chose, in the company of an utterly amoral, uncomprehending, astonished, slack-jawed Dail to resign on a point of principle. As some of the current cabinet grinned incredulously at such a notion, Ms Creighton at least, leaped out of the political herd by standing for something. After the last fortnight, Mary Lou has had her defining moment. The problem, alas, is that Ms McDonald stands for nothing. Or rather, she now appears to the public eye, to stand for nothing that is transformative or good. Like Lucinda and abortion, Mary Lou was given a unique opportunity to take a principled stand for the virtues of openness, accountability and transparency. However her response was to sway delicately out of the way of all that trouble and strife. It should be noted that when it comes to the Mairia Cahill scandal no-one was suggesting to Mary Lou that she should go looking for Gerry's head or issue ultimatums to the Sinn Fein leader. Instead all that was required was a declaration by Mary Lou of her confidence that Mr Adams would act in the same fashion that any other democratic leader, faced with such a scandal, would. Indeed Lucinda had provided Mary Lou with the methodology for the most appropriate Sinn Fein response courtesy of her suggestion that this party might set up a quasi judicial voluntary inquiry into the response of SF/IRA to known acts of child abuse. When compared to the less than attractive prospects haring down the tracks now it almost looks like a kindly suggestion. Ms McDonald did subsequently attempt to indulge in the patented Sinn Fein version of rope a dope via a tight-lipped acknowledgement that Ms Cahill had been raped. It was a defence though that fatally failed to understand that, like Watergate, the greatest political danger for Sinn Fein lies in the response to the abuse of Mairia Cahill rather than the crime itself. When it came to anything else, though, Ms McDonald continued to indulge in the political equivalent of staring at a point in the wall. Lucinda Creighton was relatively quiet last week, but for somewhat different reasons. There is a price to pay in politics when you do not play the tribal game. In the case of this curious Coalition one of the primary objectives of our gathering of democratic revolutionaries is to silence independent voices. However the example set by Lucinda is the ghost that haunted Mary Lou last week. Ms McDonald is politically acute enough to know comparisons between Lucinda and her genuflection to the Sinn Fein cult of Gerry are lethal when it comes to the sort of Super-Quinn Mums Sinn Fein are targeting. Mairia Cahill certainly is no ghost, for unlike other victims of the IRA she is inconveniently alive. But she is haunting Sinn Fein and Mary Lou too. One of the few certainties in Irish politics is that politicians who are seen to be cruel or indifferent when it comes to brave women suffer badly. Michael Noonan was destroyed for a decade by the Brigid McCole affair . Mary Lou is well practiced normally in dealing with the various stinks that rise from Gerry's mottled political fur when the Dail temperature rises. Often she has played the role of the canary in the political coal-mine who is sent out when the times are bad. Lest we become too sympathetic about the sight of the designated Sinn Fein Super-Quinn Mum fluttering against the hard edge of Sinn Fein's ethical glass ceiling, we should note Ms McDonald is a consenting adult in all of this. Mary Lou McDonald is not some innocent song-bird trapped in a political cage against her will. Unlike those victims of the old SF/IRA conglomerate, who she is so reticent about, Ms McDonald is of her own volition choosing the path she is taking. For now, astonishingly, the well worn road the united enterprise of Adams and McDonald are taking is wait the siege out. The problem though withthat SF/IRA conglomerate and sex abuse is that precedent, be it that provided by the Catholic Church or the grotesque Jimmy Savile affair, suggests that once the light dislodges one earwig from beneath the stones, quite a few more come scuttling out. And should that happen, Mary Lou may find out that she has bound herself hand and foot to a political corpse. Should she do so pity will be in short supply. Mary Lou was given the option, when it comes to Mairia Cahill, between standing by the Republic she talks about so volubly and embracing the politics of the tribe. She has decisively chosen the route of supporting the Sinn Fein 'lads' and all that this entails. The calculating Mary Lou rarely gambles, but, on this occasion she may have taken a punt that will lead her to oblivion. Up to now Sinn Fein's new modern Super Quinn Mum was seen as being the Teflon coat who would usher Sinn Fein into the establishment. That plan has now fallen irrevocably courtesy of her decision to espouse the cult-style politics of the Sinn Fein. Some will be less surprised than others by the sudden great fall of Mary Lou. During one of the many PAC spats that turbulent FG priest John Deasy glared at May Lou and informed her she was a bullshitter. Outside of noting even Deasy would not be brave or mad enough to make a similar observation to Lucinda to her face there was a sense that perhaps accidentally Deasy had unveiled a fundamental hidden truth. The suspicion, nurtured by some of Joan Burton's recent demolition jobs, has been growing that something of that nature surrounds the rise of Mary Lou. Last week's response to Mairia Cahill, amongst many other things, provided us with a tale of two women. One abandoned power and preferment on a point of principle. As for the other, well as Mary Lou sat docilely by Gerry's side on Wednesday, like the eternal somewhat pathetic hopeful fiance of an ageing bachelor, one thing was clear. They may on the surface be birds of a feather, but Mary Lou is no Lucinda. Sunday Independent 
