politics
{  
    July 03 2009 10:39 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/lifestyle/avrils-remarkable-life-in-politics-27629541.html }
WHEN THE clock strikes midnight on July 13, Avril Doyle will turn into an ordinary member of the public again, after a 35-year political career in Ireland and Brussels. That's when her retirement as an MEP comes into effect. She will take the 'red-eye' home the following day and begin leading a full-time private life. At 60 years old, it is about time, she thinks, to leave the pressures and pre-occupations of politics behind and begin a new era, although you just know she's not going to slob around in her slippers watching daytime soaps. There's the farm in Crossabeg to run and she has family and friends who'll be wanting to make up for lost time with her. Immediately after her political carriage turns into a pumpkin, you will find her on a beach in Spain with a group of friends. She's going to relax and enjoy herself and she deserves it. For 35 years, she has succeeded in the toughest and most merciless profession known to man and lived to tell the tale. She has fought elections, celebrated victory, licked her wounds after defeat and picked herself up to start all over again. In retrospect, it has been a rollercoaster ride that tested her strength of character many times and never found it wanting. At times, especially during her early career, there were attempts to dismiss her as 'a lady of the manor', but the put-down lost punch when the Celtic Tiger came along, made manor houses look small, and put ponies into the back-gardens of suburban bungalows. Avril Doyle proved herself a woman of substance: intelligent, articulate, unafraid of hard work or tough confrontation; as comfortable in a muddy field wearing wellies and a hacking jacket as conversing at a glamorous reception in an ambassador's residence. The amazing thing is that she never set out to become a politician. It was the last thing on her mind when she arrived in Wexford in January 1972, after marrying farmer Fred Doyle straight out of UCD and spending her honeymoon in Kenya. The BSc. graduate was 22 years old, which nowadays seems very young to walk up the aisle. 'People didn't live together then, they got married', she said. Two and a half years later, she was the busy mother of two baby daughters, Christina, aged 14 months, and Liz, six months, when her political career took off. Her father, Dick Belton, a doctor who came back from England to run the family farm, was a Fine Gael member of Dún Laoghaire Town Council and a onetime Fine Gael senator, while her grandfather Patrick Belton served as a TD. It was no surprise she was a card-carrying member of the party, but when Fine Gael first approached her in October 1973 to run in the local elections the following year, she was pregnant with her second child and politics was the last thing on her mind. 'Don't worry, you won't get elected the first time. You'll be able to go back to pushing buggies,' she recalls being told. She was elected to Wexford Corporation and County Council on her first attempt and was the only woman on the local authorities at the time. Later, she became the first female Wexford TD in the Dail – not bad for a Dubliner who grew up on a farm in Killiney. She cut her baby teeth in local government, holding her own in an all-male environment. 'I don't recall finding it that tough. If you were a shrinking violet you wouldn't survive. In the heat of battle things might be said. Some of the jokes might not be tolerated now. I suppose I might have given as good as I got,' she said. Becoming Mayor was one of the high points of her career. Again it was a female first, exciting but exhausting. She juggled the demands of two preschoolers with a round of civic functions. She wouldn't have survived without her babysitter, Bridie. She successfully fought two local elections before being asked to run in a Dáil election. Her youngest daughter, Kate, arrived in 1979. Avril refused to go in 1981, not wishing to spend three days a week in Dublin. Ivan Yates went instead. After the Government fell, there was a snap election in November 1982 and she stood this time, getting elected and becoming Minister of State at the Deparment of the Environment and Finance under taoiseach Garret Fitzgerald. There followed a period of ' musical seats' between Avril and Michael D'Arcy senior, during which Fine Gael tried and failed to hold three Dáil seats. She lost her seat in 1987 and ran successfully for the Senate. She re-captured her Dáil place in 1989 and was appointed Minister of State at the Department of Transport and Energy in John Bruton's government. During her career, she was elected to the Dáil three times and the Senate twice. There was no resting on laurels. 'You just got on with it. You didn't stop and say "wow" at any stage.' Her children didn't like election times and felt protective of her. 'It was very public, I suppose, putting yourself out there to be pot-shotted at, especially when you didn't get elected. They didn't say anything at the time but they talked about it later. In peace-time, it was fine'. Today Liz, a successful horse-trainer, and her partner, Barry, are based in Crossabeg; Christina and her husband Glenn live in London and Katie is in Dublin. Despite growing up in Dublin, Avril was never really a city girl. Her father and her mother, Freda, were both doctors, but they didn't practice medicine. Dick Belton was in his early thirties working in a London hospital when his father died. He came back to run the County Dublin dairy farm on which his daughter grew up as one of five children. Patrick is a GP in London; sister Mary is a Dublin psychiatrist; Richard works in finance and Kathleen in advertising. Sadly, her father died before the local elections in May 1974 as she prepared to make her political debut, and he never saw her elected. Freda, who was a great support to Avril, passed away in 2004. After she was first elected to the Dail, the TD would drop her youngest child in to her mother on the way to Leinster House. All the family came to her home to help out during election campaigns, sometimes basing themselves in Whites Hotel during the canvass. She was first elected to the European Parliament ten years ago, her national profile winning her widespread support in the Leinster constituency. She has given a hard-working and creditable performance in Brussels, contributing in a significant way to climate change, fisheries, public health and energy policy. She was leader of the Fine Gael delegation in the European People's Party, the largest and most influential political group in Europe. She has travelled all over the world, representing the EU, including Tibet, which she found fascinating and, since a horse-related accident six years ago, has confounded security in airports around the globe. 'After 9/11, travelling became more problematic everywhere. I have pins and screws in my left leg and I keep setting off the security alarm. I have to go through the motions of explaining every time'. Horses have always been part of her life since childhood and in 2001, she served as President of the Irish Equestrian Federation. She was also chairperson of Eventing Ireland. There was always a certain cachet in being Irish in Europe, she said, but perceptions have changed with the Lisbon Treaty rejection and the economic downturn. 'Our economy is now held up as how not to do things', she said. She was annoyed at the IFA campaign for a No vote. 'People felt that if the farmers who made so much from Europe are telling us to vote No, there must be something wrong'. She was 'gutted' by the Lisbon rejection, and this may help to explain her memorable reaction when a group of British Eurosceptic MEPs wore green hats and T-shirts in the parliament to welcome the Irish stance. 'How the history books could have been written differently if respect for the Irish vote from some of our British colleagues was always there.' she was famously quoted as saying. Contrary to rumours, she is not leaving Europe to take up a high-powered consultancy post in Geneva, or anywhere else. 'I heard that alright, but it's not true. What's wrong with just retiring and taking it easy?' she asked. 'To be able to go to bed when you're tired and get up when you're not tired will be a pleasure. But I know the novelty will wear off. I have no formal employment lined up but I will probably get involved in doing things.' she said. WHEN THE clock strikes midnight on July 13, Avril Doyle will turn into an ordinary member of the public again, after a 35-year political career in Ireland and Brussels. That's when her retirement as an MEP comes into effect. She will take the 'red-eye' home the following day and begin leading a full-time private life. At 60 years old, it is about time, she thinks, to leave the pressures and pre-occupations of politics behind and begin a new era, although you just know she's not going to slob around in her slippers watching daytime soaps. There's the farm in Crossabeg to run and she has family and friends who'll be wanting to make up for lost time with her. Immediately after her political carriage turns into a pumpkin, you will find her on a beach in Spain with a group of friends. She's going to relax and enjoy herself and she deserves it. For 35 years, she has succeeded in the toughest and most merciless profession known to man and lived to tell the tale. She has fought elections, celebrated victory, licked her wounds after defeat and picked herself up to start all over again. In retrospect, it has been a rollercoaster ride that tested her strength of character many times and never found it wanting. At times, especially during her early career, there were attempts to dismiss her as 'a lady of the manor', but the put-down lost punch when the Celtic Tiger came along, made manor houses look small, and put ponies into the back-gardens of suburban bungalows. Avril Doyle proved herself a woman of substance: intelligent, articulate, unafraid of hard work or tough confrontation; as comfortable in a muddy field wearing wellies and a hacking jacket as conversing at a glamorous reception in an ambassador's residence. The amazing thing is that she never set out to become a politician. It was the last thing on her mind when she arrived in Wexford in January 1972, after marrying farmer Fred Doyle straight out of UCD and spending her honeymoon in Kenya. The BSc. graduate was 22 years old, which nowadays seems very young to walk up the aisle. 'People didn't live together then, they got married', she said. Two and a half years later, she was the busy mother of two baby daughters, Christina, aged 14 months, and Liz, six months, when her political career took off. Her father, Dick Belton, a doctor who came back from England to run the family farm, was a Fine Gael member of Dún Laoghaire Town Council and a onetime Fine Gael senator, while her grandfather Patrick Belton served as a TD. It was no surprise she was a card-carrying member of the party, but when Fine Gael first approached her in October 1973 to run in the local elections the following year, she was pregnant with her second child and politics was the last thing on her mind. 'Don't worry, you won't get elected the first time. You'll be able to go back to pushing buggies,' she recalls being told. She was elected to Wexford Corporation and County Council on her first attempt and was the only woman on the local authorities at the time. Later, she became the first female Wexford TD in the Dail – not bad for a Dubliner who grew up on a farm in Killiney. She cut her baby teeth in local government, holding her own in an all-male environment. 'I don't recall finding it that tough. If you were a shrinking violet you wouldn't survive. In the heat of battle things might be said. Some of the jokes might not be tolerated now. I suppose I might have given as good as I got,' she said. Becoming Mayor was one of the high points of her career. Again it was a female first, exciting but exhausting. She juggled the demands of two preschoolers with a round of civic functions. She wouldn't have survived without her babysitter, Bridie. She successfully fought two local elections before being asked to run in a Dáil election. Her youngest daughter, Kate, arrived in 1979. Avril refused to go in 1981, not wishing to spend three days a week in Dublin. Ivan Yates went instead. After the Government fell, there was a snap election in November 1982 and she stood this time, getting elected and becoming Minister of State at the Deparment of the Environment and Finance under taoiseach Garret Fitzgerald. There followed a period of ' musical seats' between Avril and Michael D'Arcy senior, during which Fine Gael tried and failed to hold three Dáil seats. She lost her seat in 1987 and ran successfully for the Senate. She re-captured her Dáil place in 1989 and was appointed Minister of State at the Department of Transport and Energy in John Bruton's government. During her career, she was elected to the Dáil three times and the Senate twice. There was no resting on laurels. 'You just got on with it. You didn't stop and say "wow" at any stage.' Her children didn't like election times and felt protective of her. 'It was very public, I suppose, putting yourself out there to be pot-shotted at, especially when you didn't get elected. They didn't say anything at the time but they talked about it later. In peace-time, it was fine'. Today Liz, a successful horse-trainer, and her partner, Barry, are based in Crossabeg; Christina and her husband Glenn live in London and Katie is in Dublin. Despite growing up in Dublin, Avril was never really a city girl. Her father and her mother, Freda, were both doctors, but they didn't practice medicine. Dick Belton was in his early thirties working in a London hospital when his father died. He came back to run the County Dublin dairy farm on which his daughter grew up as one of five children. Patrick is a GP in London; sister Mary is a Dublin psychiatrist; Richard works in finance and Kathleen in advertising. Sadly, her father died before the local elections in May 1974 as she prepared to make her political debut, and he never saw her elected. Freda, who was a great support to Avril, passed away in 2004. After she was first elected to the Dail, the TD would drop her youngest child in to her mother on the way to Leinster House. All the family came to her home to help out during election campaigns, sometimes basing themselves in Whites Hotel during the canvass. She was first elected to the European Parliament ten years ago, her national profile winning her widespread support in the Leinster constituency. She has given a hard-working and creditable performance in Brussels, contributing in a significant way to climate change, fisheries, public health and energy policy. She was leader of the Fine Gael delegation in the European People's Party, the largest and most influential political group in Europe. She has travelled all over the world, representing the EU, including Tibet, which she found fascinating and, since a horse-related accident six years ago, has confounded security in airports around the globe. 'After 9/11, travelling became more problematic everywhere. I have pins and screws in my left leg and I keep setting off the security alarm. I have to go through the motions of explaining every time'. Horses have always been part of her life since childhood and in 2001, she served as President of the Irish Equestrian Federation. She was also chairperson of Eventing Ireland. There was always a certain cachet in being Irish in Europe, she said, but perceptions have changed with the Lisbon Treaty rejection and the economic downturn. 'Our economy is now held up as how not to do things', she said. She was annoyed at the IFA campaign for a No vote. 'People felt that if the farmers who made so much from Europe are telling us to vote No, there must be something wrong'. She was 'gutted' by the Lisbon rejection, and this may help to explain her memorable reaction when a group of British Eurosceptic MEPs wore green hats and T-shirts in the parliament to welcome the Irish stance. 'How the history books could have been written differently if respect for the Irish vote from some of our British colleagues was always there.' she was famously quoted as saying. Contrary to rumours, she is not leaving Europe to take up a high-powered consultancy post in Geneva, or anywhere else. 'I heard that alright, but it's not true. What's wrong with just retiring and taking it easy?' she asked. 'To be able to go to bed when you're tired and get up when you're not tired will be a pleasure. But I know the novelty will wear off. I have no formal employment lined up but I will probably get involved in doing things.' she said. 
